---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Quick question:\r\n\r\nBahasa Malaysia uses the Roman alphabet.\r\nBahasa Malaysia
  uses the Latin alphebet.\r\n\r\nWhich is correct? Or are they the same?"
comments:
- author:
    name: praitsidis
    picture: 116167
  body: "Wikipedia says that both are correct. Both of these lead to the same page:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_alphabet\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roman_alphabet\r\n\r\nIn
    this context, I've only heard \"roman\" being used for numerals... "
  created: '2009-09-29 12:54:22'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It\u2019s the *Latin alphabet* or Latin script. I\u2019ve never encountered
    this being \u201Calso called Roman alphabet\u201D like the Wiki article suggests."
  created: '2009-09-29 13:24:18'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: '"Bahasa Malaysia uses the Latin script" would be correct.'
  created: '2009-09-29 13:25:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Andreas, in English, the alphabet used to write the Latin script is often
    called "the Roman alphabet." This is much more commonly heard (outside of the
    letter world!) than the terms "the Latin alphabet" or "the Latin script." However,
    in type circles, we have completely coalesced around "the Latin script." One just
    has to be aware that this terminology is not necessarily 100% clear to English-speakers.
    But it should be clear enough to literate designers or font purchasers.
  created: '2009-09-29 13:57:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: To me, "using the Latin alphabet" means AaBbCc..., as opposed to kanji, Cherokee,
    etc. "Roman alphabet" (again, to me) says a particular kind of AaBbCc..., as opposed
    to blackletter, uncial, etc.
  created: '2009-09-29 14:04:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Seems to me that 'Latin' is technically correct whereas 'Roman' is more conventional.
    I'm writing for non-type people whose first language is not English.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the distinction between an alphabet and a script? I wish I knew more about everything..."
  created: '2009-09-29 14:14:51'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: 'Just to throw a wrench into the works: isn''t Western alphabet more common
    (if not as precise)?'
  created: '2009-09-29 14:35:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019m writing for non-type people whose first language is not English</em>\r\n\r\nInstead
    of trying to guess which word would make sense to them, perhaps this is an opportunity
    to teach them the correct term by defining and then using it! :-)"
  created: '2009-09-29 14:36:39'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: The standard traditional term in English is "Roman alphabet". However, in
    computer typography this is both ambiguous (as eliason points out) and badly framed,
    since many scripts are not alphabetic. Thus, "Latin script" is the correct term
    for a technical audience.
  created: '2009-09-29 14:41:45'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>What\u2019s the distinction between an alphabet and a script?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen
    SCRIPT means \u201Ca conventional system of a limited range of graphical characters
    to visually represent a language\u201D then ALPHABET is *one kind* of script.
    To be more precise, the term \u201CAlphabet\u201D ought to be used for those scripts
    only which descend from Phenician (like Latin).\r\nThe so-called Latin (or Roman)
    alphabet common to us today is actually the English alphabet. The W was invented
    on the British isle, J and U are medieval additons, too. Even K, Y and Z are only
    lean-letters to the \u201CLatin\u201D alphabet (from Greek).\r\n\r\nThe only genuin
    Latin letter is the G, which has been invented by a Roman scribe."
  created: '2009-09-29 15:53:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "There's a pretty nice explanation of the term \"alphabet\" (as opposed to
    syllabaries and other writing systems) at Omniglot, with tons of examples too:\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/definition.htm"
  created: '2009-09-29 17:16:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Common usage is 'Latin Script', although 'Roman script' makes at least as
    much sense. \r\n\r\nAlphabets are language specific; scripts are culture specific.\r\n\r\nSo
    I would understand 'Latin alphabet' to mean specifically the set of letters used
    to write the Latin alphabet, as distinct from e.g. the English alphabet, the German
    alphabet or the Wolof alphabet. All these alphabets are subsets of the same script,
    which is that which we inherit from the Romans."
  created: '2009-09-29 17:39:04'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "In school, many years back, I was taught that Latin alphabet referred to
    the 26/52 alpha characters commonly used in English and their derivatives in related
    languages. Roman--cap R--meant inscriptional capitals circa first century. However,
    roman--lower case--referred to style of script developed in the vicinity/sphere
    of Rome in the 15th century and used to distinguish from venetian scripts of the
    same era, as well as separated from italic.\r\nWestern alphabet forces us to draw
    too many geographic demarcations, e.g. does German use the western alphabet--\xDF--or
    Swedish, or Czech? "
  created: '2009-09-29 19:00:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "@ Ben\r\n[[alphabet]] vs. [[script]]"
  created: '2009-09-29 19:13:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "There is an additional wrinkle that in classifying writing systems, 'alphabet'
    in the narrow sense has the technical definition of a script that has graphemes
    representing both consonant and vowel phonemes in a single system. It is by this
    criterion that the script used by the Romans to write Latin is properly called
    an alphabet, not by its descent from the Greek alphabet. The Phoenician script,
    from which the Greek alphabet derives, is not an alphabet in this sense because
    it records only consonant sounds (it is classified as an 'abjad'). There are true
    alphabets that are not derived from the Greek alphabet, such as hangul, the Korean
    alphabet.\r\n\r\nA looser linguistic definition of 'alphabet' includes any writing
    system with symbols for separate sounds rather than syllables or words. So Chinese
    logographs and Japanese kana are excluded, but examples like the Phoenician script
    are included. This seems to be how Wikipedia uses the term in its entries."
  created: '2009-09-30 12:31:34'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It is true that nowadays *alphabet*, as a terminus technicus, gets distinguished
    from Abjads and Abugidas. And yet, stemming from aleph\u2013beta the term seems
    suitable for Phenician offsprings much more than for a script like Hangul, which
    I would call *Korean script* much rather than \u201CKorean alphabet\u201D."
  created: '2009-09-30 13:10:27'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: If you include Phoenician, which is an abjad, it seems singularly pointless
    to exclude from the term "alphabet" such scripts as the South Arabian abjad and
    the Ethiopic scripts, which are closely related to Phoenician but not descended
    from it (they are separately descended from Proto-Sinaitic).
  created: '2009-09-30 14:14:52'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Also, I might note that some scripts descended from the Phoenician are not
    alphabets by any criterion, such as the Iberian syllabary.
  created: '2009-09-30 14:16:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Well, the term alphabet comes from alpha and beta of the Greek alphabet,
    of course, so it is not obvious that it should be applied retroactively to the
    Phoenician script either. If alphabet is taken to be a term comparable to abugida
    (from the Ethiopean name of the ge'ez script) or abjad (adapted from a name for
    the Arabic script), then it makes more sense to use all those terms as purely
    structural categories regardless of the origins of the specific examples.\r\n\r\nWhat
    would the proto-Canaanite script be, for instance? The Greek, Ge'ez, and Arabic
    scripts are all ultimately derived from it, after all. And as far as I've seen
    the most common use for the term abugida is for various Indic scripts, which have
    very little to do with Ge'ez. The names are best thought of as being taken from
    well-known examples of each category, and not meant to restrictive to scripts
    actually derived from the said examples."
  created: '2009-09-30 14:55:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ok so I understand that an alphabet is one kind of script, but I'm not quite
    clear why we should prefer 'the Latin script' over 'the Latin alphabet'. Surely
    the Latin script is only represented by the Latin/Roman alphabet? Or have I missed
    something?
  created: '2009-09-30 15:11:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Oh, I don't see why we should <em>generally</em> prefer 'the Latin script'
    over 'the Latin alphabet'. The Latin script just happens to be an alphabet, and
    both names are unambiguous. You would prefer one over the other only in certain
    contexts, for example when you would want to emphasize the alphabetic nature of
    the script.\r\n\r\nNow, John Hudson makes a distinction that I think could be
    useful in many respects, but as far as I'm aware it's not one that's made conventionally.
    If I were to employ that distinction, I would explain it beforehand so the reader
    understands what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n<cite>Surely the Latin script is only
    represented by the Latin/Roman alphabet?</cite>\r\nJohn means that subsets of
    scripts derived from that originally used to record Latin ('the Latin script')
    may be used for different languages ('the English alphabet', 'the Welsh alphabet',
    'the Vietnamese alphabet'). He would understand by 'Latin alphabet' only the collection
    of graphemes used for writing the Latin language. Again, a useful distinction,
    but probably too subtle for general discourse.\r\n\r\nIn this case, 'alphabet'
    is one of these general terms that different people have adopted to use in a technical
    sense, but with different distinctions in mind. Linguists will care about the
    sense of having signs for consonants and vowels in the same system, while others
    will see the opportunity to use the term to describe each case where the same
    script is adopted for a number of different languages."
  created: '2009-09-30 15:36:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Aah, thank you for the explanation. In such terminology it would be inappropriate
    to use the term ''the Latin alphabet''. So we are left with ''Roman alphabet''
    or ''Latin script'' or ''Roman script''. Though I now understand the correct term
    is ''the Latin script'' and will use that in type circles (thank you), as a pragmatist
    in this instance I''m favouring ''Roman alphabet''. The word ''alphabet'' seems
    cognitively easier: everyone knows what an alphabet is. Asking someone to write
    in the Latin script might well lead to confusion.'
  created: '2009-09-30 16:08:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "\u2018Script\u2019 is a tricky term, because it also comes with multiple
    meanings and sometimes requires explanation. It gets used a lot in contemporary
    font making, and also in text encoding and processing circles, to refer to writing
    systems e.g. \u2018Latin script\u2019, \u2018Arabic script\u2019, etc.. I'm as
    guilty of this as anyone.\r\n\r\nIf I want to be very precise in this context,
    though, I use the term \u2018writing system\u2019 rather than script: the Latin
    or Roman writing system, the Arabic writing system, and so on. The nice thing
    about this term is that it doesn't have multiple meanings and it specifically
    references the system of signifiers and signifieds that make up that system, without
    reference to the forms of those signs. This also means that one can sidestep the
    classification issues of e.g. alphabet vs. abjad (which arise from the fact that
    there are almost no perfect abjads, and what seems to me the inevitable conclusion
    that an abjad is a subcategory of alphabet); \u2018writing system\u2019 can accomodate
    e.g. the use of <em>matres lectiones</em> (letters as vowels) in classical Hebrew
    or the r\xF4le of the alif in Arabic.\r\n\r\nThe biggest difficulty of the word
    \u2018script\u2019 is its use, both common and specialist, in labelling of specific
    styles of writing, e.g. the Carolingian Script (a stylistic category of the Roman
    writing system) or the Nas'taliq Script (a stylistic category of the Arabic writing
    system). The fact that these script styles were not developed by Romans or by
    Arabs only adds to the nomenclatureal fun."
  created: '2009-10-01 00:52:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jongseong: <em>...a useful distinction, but probably too subtle for general
    discourse.</em>\r\n\r\nHehe. I think I want that written on my gravestone when
    I die."
  created: '2009-10-01 00:54:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I've seen it pointed out that English doesn't have a neat term corresponding
    to '\xE9criture'. 'Writing system' works best, but is rather cumbersome.\r\n\r\nGetting
    back to Roman vs Latin, in Japanese the term 'romaji' or 'roma moji' appears more
    common than 'raten moji', and in Korean 'romaja' or 'roma munja' is heard more
    often than 'ratin munja'. But both terms are understood and neither is held to
    be more correct."
  created: '2009-10-01 03:42:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Getting back to Roman vs Latin...</em>\r\n\r\nBoth terms originate with
    geographic place names (Latium, Roma) and, by association, the people who lived
    in and identified with those places (Latins, Romans). This is why I believe \u2018Roman
    writing system\u2019 makes at least as much sense as \u2018Latin writing system\u2019."
  created: '2009-10-01 04:09:32'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Can I say that etymology is different than definition; antisemitism for example
    refers to hostility against Jews and not semitic people.\r\nThe source of the
    word Alphabet is clearly related to Alpha Beta, the Greek alphabet and ultimately
    the Phoenician. But I always thought its definition is pretty much  [[http://typophile.com/node/16847?|this]]
    and so any set of symbols that fit that definition is an alphabet even if it had
    no connection to the Phoenician.\r\nWhen you say Roman alphabet or Latin alphabet
    I tend to think that it's missing J and U but when you say English alphabet or
    Icelandic alphabet it's more clear as to what the character set is.\r\n\r\n<cite>Surely
    the Latin script is only represented by the Latin/Roman alphabet? </>\r\nI thought
    it was the other way around, you use the Latin script to represent the English
    Alphabet, or the Vietnamese alphabet.\r\n\r\nAlphabet in Arabic is \"Abjadiyyeh\"
    so I find it funny when people try to distinguish Adjadi from Alphabets. I always
    thought that the distinction is made to say that in an Abjadi a vowel is not necessarily
    a letter.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting when I explain the job function of a type designer
    to non-designers I always say 'they draw alphabets'"
  created: '2009-10-01 05:24:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I thought it was the other way around, you use the Latin script to represent
    the English Alphabet, or the Vietnamese alphabet.\r\n\r\nWell if that's the case
    I'm mistaken in writing 'Bahasa Malaysia uses the Roman alphabet' since it must
    use the Malaysian alphabet?"
  created: '2009-10-01 09:36:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The Roman Alphabet is A-Z. The Latin Script is now much bigger with the addition
    of  Carolingian, Arabic, and the broader needs of language and commerce. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-01 13:06:54'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "<cite>Well if that\u2019s the case I\u2019m mistaken in writing \u2019Bahasa
    Malaysia uses the Roman alphabet\u2019 since it must use the Malaysian alphabet</cite>\r\nI'm
    not an expert either, but that's how I see it:\r\nIn in the French alphabet the
    sound produced by \"ch\" is similar to the \"sh\" sound in the English alphabet
    and so the two alphabets are different while they use the same script.\r\n(Of
    course today's languages/alphabets are so full of orthographies that they're not
    purely phonetic anymore)\r\n\r\n<cite>The Latin Script is now much bigger with
    the addition of Carolingian, Arabic, and the broader needs of language and commerce.</cite>\r\nIf\r\nCarolingian
    = lowercase  \r\nArabic = 1234567890\r\nthe broader needs of language = Diacritics,
    punctuation and whatnot\r\nand commerce = Currencies \xA9 \u2122 etc.\r\nThen
    yeah that's my idea of what the Latin script is."
  created: '2009-10-02 15:32:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">In in the French alphabet the sound produced by \u201Cch\u201D is similar
    to the \u201Csh\u201D sound in the English alphabet and so the two alphabets are
    different while they use the same script.\r\n\r\nBut an alphabet no more closely
    correlates with its phonemes than does its script. An alphabet is a set of letters
    in a particular order. The phoneme /\u0283/ is not represented by any symbol in
    either the French or English alphabets.\r\n\r\nI guess my point of discussion
    is: do we use the Latin *script* to represent the English *alphabet* or the Latin/Roman
    *alphabet* to represent the English *language*? I feel it may be both, in which
    case both Latin script and Roman alphabet are fully correct.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-02 20:34:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "I would say English has its own alphabet which is encompassed by the Latin
    script. The classical Latin alphabet (according to wikipedia) originally consisted
    of ABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQRSTVXYZ. W was added later to represent sounds from Germanic
    languages and the distinctions between I/J and U/V were also later developments.
    So to my understanding, it would be incorrect to say that we use the Latin (Roman)
    alphabet to represent the English language unless you spell things like IVSTICE
    for 'justice' &c.\r\n\r\nBut then again I might be wrong..."
  created: '2009-10-02 22:53:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I guess my point of discussion is: do we use the Latin *script* to represent
    the English *alphabet* or the Latin/Roman *alphabet* to represent the English
    *language*? I feel it may be both, in which case both Latin script and Roman alphabet
    are fully correct.</em>\r\n\r\nThe English alphabet is the set of Roman letters
    used to write the English language. The Latin alphabet is the set of Roman letters
    used to write the Latin language. The German alphabet is the set of Roman letters
    used to write the German language. The Wolof alphabet... etc.\r\n\r\nThis really
    is the only sensible use of the term alphabet, because otherwise you are lacking
    a term to refer to the set of letters used to write individual languages, and
    left with multiple terms to refer to superset of letters that form a language-independent
    writing system."
  created: '2009-10-03 03:05:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You can't win.\r\nEither you end up with roman italics, or scipt scripts.\r\n\r\nAnd
    if italic is a style, the style of that style may be discussed, and if there are
    two italics for the same typeface (Auto?), the style of the style of the style."
  created: '2009-10-03 20:49:48'
- author:
    name: WType
    picture: 116173
  body: "Hi guys:\r\n\r\nI am not sure this help. Since I am from Malaysia and deal
    with Malaysian clients all the time, allow me to provide some historical background,
    perhaps that can give a different perspective to the whole topic:\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \"Malay is the main language of communication for the inhabitants of the Malay
    Archipelago, and it has been the lingua franca of the region for at least five
    centuries. The Malay script known as Jawi is derived from Arabic. Both Arabic
    and Jawi have been widely used for religious and secular manuscripts since Islam
    was established in the region. Jawi is a combination of Arabic and Persian scripts,
    with additional letters added as an adaptation to local phonetics. These additional
    characters are \"pa\", \"nga\", \"cha\" and \"gha\".\r\n\r\n \"Jawi script has
    been through various orthographic improvements over the years, to make it compatible
    with Malay phonetics. In 1904 a committee was set up to produce a guidebook to
    change Jawi to Malay 'Rumi' orthography, which was known as 'Romanised Malay Spelling'.
    It was also known as 'Sistem Ejaan Wilkinson'. Zainal Abidin Ahmad, also known
    as Za' ba, rearranged Malay Rumi orthography in 1938, affecting the Wilkinson
    Malay Orthography System which has been used by school since 1904\"\r\n\r\n(From
    \"The Malay Manuscript: An Introduction\", pg21, 26; Published by Islamic Arts
    Museum Malaysia (IAMM) )\r\n\r\n\r\nThis \"Romanised Malay Spelling\" version
    of this Malay language later became the national language of Malaysia, which we
    called \"Bahasa Malaysia\" ('Bahasa' means language) The same \"Romanised\" malay
    language was also used in Indonesia which later became the national language of
    Indonesia- \"Bahasa Indonesia\", with slight differences due to local adaptation.
    \r\n\r\nHistorically both Malaysia and Indonesia were located in the same region
    called \"The Malay Archipelago\" or \"Nusantara\". Both countries used the same
    language until the two countries declared independence. In fact, Singapore was
    also situated in the middle of this region and therefore Bahasa Malaysia is also
    the national language of Singapore due to historical reason. Though, most Singaporeans
    are more fluent in English and Chinese due to the education policy adopted by
    the Singaporean government after independence.\r\n\r\n( To divert a bit, that's
    why the 3 countries also share many cultural heritage. In recent months there
    have been many arguments among the 3 countries over the exclusive right of certain
    cultural practices, such as The batik, certain dances and foods, etc...)\r\n\r\nThat
    is from historical point of view. Culturally, we local Malaysians often say \"Romanised\"
    Bahasa Malaysia instead of \"Latinised\" Bahasa Malaysia. \r\n\r\nIt depends who
    are your audiences. If you are speaking to the local Malaysians, then to approach
    it both from cultural and historical point of view seems to be more appropriate.
    \ Therefore, \"Bahasa Malaysia uses the Roman alphabet\" would be a better choice
    and it sounds better to the locals too.\r\n\r\nThat would be my personal argument.
    And believe me, most Malaysian clients won't even know the difference, much less
    arguing about it. If they start to make noise over your choice of words, just
    quote the above excerpt I suggested to you to support your argument, and tell
    them that it's from IAMM. That would silent them. \r\n\r\nThe curatorial department
    of IAMM is quite authoritative in regards to this. If they have any doubt, ask
    them to call IAMM, I can give you the numbers.\r\n\r\nAll the best. : )\r\n\r\n(Aziz
    from Flower. Anything else to add?)"
  created: '2009-10-04 09:00:46'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "FOR SOME REASON,\r\nI VNDERSTOOD ROMAN\r\nAS LIMITED TO VPPERCASE\r\nA B
    C D E F Z H I K L M N O P Q R S T V X\r\nVVITHOUT THE EXTRAS\r\n\r\nWhile I took
    Latin, as an umbrella term for the multitude of derived scripts. \r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-10-05 22:06:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It doesn't make sense to say the Roman alphabet was limited to \u2018uppercase\u2019.
    The latter is a term that refers to our bicameral alphabets, whose capital letters
    are based on a particular style of letter used by the Romans. The Romans did employ
    other styles of writing, though, e.g. http://www.flickr.com/photos/37590515@N03/3510136525/sizes/o/"
  created: '2009-10-05 23:47:00'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gallina_5657.png]\r\n\r\nA playwright,
    once referred to the roman cursive as chicken scratches :)\r\n\r\nAn, opsecro
    hercle, habent quas gallinae manus? Nam has quidem gallina scripsit.\r\n\u2014
    Titus Maccius Plautus, \"PSEVDOLVS\". 191 BC\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-10-06 06:20:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The Romans did employ other styles of writing, though\r\n\r\nBut we don't
    employ them. So... we just use the Roman alphabet, not the Roman script. ;)"
  created: '2009-10-06 12:15:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: You use the Roman alphabet, David? I think the rest of us are using the English
    alphabet, and you may be short a couple of letters.
  created: '2009-10-06 19:28:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well scripted answer, Nick :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-06 20:05:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I think the rest of us are using the English alphabet,\r\n\r\nDon't try
    <em>that</em> fa\xE7ade-of-an-argument on the street. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-09 13:00:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Back to the Quick question:\r\nBahasa Malaysia uses the Roman alphabet.\r\nBahasa
    Malaysia uses the Latin alphebet.\r\nWhich is correct? Or are they the same?\r\n-\r\nNeither!\r\n1.
    It is incorrect to say Bahasa Malaysia. Say: Bahasa Melayu.\r\n2 Bahasa Melayu
    is a phonetic language, like Arabic, \r\nand is best written (and read!) in Jawi.\r\nBut
    Malays were fooled by a NATIONALIST, \r\nand they are trying hard to revive the
    beautiful script.\r\nhttp://www.ejawi.net/converterV2.php\r\nhttp://dbp.my/tanya/Jawi\r\nhttp://www.jawi.ukm.my\r\nMore
    in Bahasa Melayu:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/74436\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-13 03:58:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The reason we speak of the Latin script and the Roman alphabet for the writing
    system which includes 26 letters, some of which are modern innovations, should
    be obvious. At least the Roman Empire and its Latin language are the <strong>source</strong>
    from which most of this alphabet came. If we called it the <em>English</em> alphabet,
    the Dutch and the French and the Germans and the Spaniards and even the Norwegians
    would feel we were appropriating ownership of the alphabet which they also use.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, since lower-case letters are such a prominent feature of the Latin writing
    system in current use, one could get really technical, and adopt as the standard
    term \"the Carolingian script\" - but if you started doing that, people would
    assume you were talking about paleography, rather than trying to use a technically
    accurate term for the writing system in <em>current</em> use."
  created: '2010-11-13 05:25:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> It is incorrect to say Bahasa Malaysia. Say: Bahasa Melayu.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the correction, that seems to be a very common error. If we want to use the
    English name of the language, do we say 'the Malay language'? (I'm assuming 'Bahasa
    Melayu' is the Malay language name?)\r\n\r\nThanks for those links, there are
    some beautiful examples of Jawi there. \r\n\r\nWhat language(s) and writing system
    existed in Malaysia before the arrival of Islam? I'm guessing Sanskrit would have
    been used, for example, during the times of the Srivijaiya kings?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-13 11:50:04'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Bendy, Google?! I googled and found this:\r\nhttp://ilovemyresearch.wordpress.com/category/jawi-script\r\nHappy
    Googling with Flowers\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-13 12:12:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: It would seem Wittgenstein lived in vain.
  created: '2010-11-13 13:02:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The link given about the revival of the Jawi script in Indonesia was very
    disturbing in one aspect.\r\n\r\nWesterners, used to the Roman alphabet, assume
    that it is highly legible compared to some other writing systems in which the
    letters appear to be less distinct. Thus, it is assumed that when nationalists
    in Turkey changed over to a form of the Latin script, this partly facilitated
    the improvement in that country's literacy levels. That may be, however, just
    chauvinism on our part.\r\n\r\nBut the fact that the one province in which Jawi
    now appears with Latin script did so <em>along with instituting Shari'a</em> is
    very distressing, as this will diminish religious liberty, and the equality of
    people of all faiths, for people who live there. It is up to the speakers of Malay
    what script best represents their language, but any political movement which represents
    a movement away from the tolerance for which Indonesia has been praised is, of
    course, profoundly harmful."
  created: '2010-11-14 03:35:52'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc, see you here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76305\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-14 04:43:04'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>But the fact that the one province in which Jawi now appears with Latin
    script did so along with instituting Shari'a is very distressing, as this will
    diminish religious liberty, and the equality of people of all faiths, for people
    who live there.</cite>\r\n\r\nCan we please stop the islamophobic propaganda and
    concentrate on type? (despite what the media tells you, Shari'a, which literally
    means <em>law</em>, does not \"<em>diminish religious liberty, and the equality
    of people of all faiths</em>\".)"
  created: '2010-11-14 15:47:10'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Khaled Hosny, please follow us here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76305\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-14 16:02:56'
- author:
    name: henkm
  body: "Bendy, I think it is worth pointing out that 'Bahasa Malaysia' being wrong
    represents AzizMostafa's point of view and not necessarily the generally accepted
    practice. The Malaysian government has declared Bahasa Malaysia to be the national
    language or the 'Malaysian language' and so Bahasa Melayu has (implicitly) come
    to mean the Malay Language. I'm not sure whether Indonesia uses the term Bahasa
    Indonesia, which would parallel Bahasa Malaysia.\r\n\r\nYou might compare this
    with English (parallel to b.melayu) which is divided in British (b.malaysia) and
    American English (b.indonesia).\r\n\r\nOf course, not everyone agrees with the
    government and since Malaysia is a heavily politicised country ...\r\n\r\nOn the
    topic of older writing systems, the Dutch have left a legacy of dictionaries for
    various Javanese and regional languages other than Malay, which each have their
    own script. If you are interested, you might want to try to explore it through
    those sources.\r\n\r\nThe language of the Malays in Malaysia has always been Malay,
    as far as I can tell. There are aboriginal people here, more about which can be
    found at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orang_Asli .\r\n\r\nedit: oops, didn't realise
    I was talking to a Malaysian, so you're probably better aware of all this than
    I am.I just let it stand in case anyone might be interested."
  created: '2010-11-15 02:53:48'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Henkm, Am confused. Which is correct?\r\n1. The language of the Malays in
    Malaysia has always been Malay.\r\n2. The language of the Indians in Malaysia
    has always been Malay.\r\n3. The language of the Chinese in Malaysia has always
    been Malay.\r\n4. The language of Malaysians has alway been Malay.\r\n5. The mother
    tongue of Malays in Malaysia has always been Malay.\r\n6. The mother tongue of
    Indians in Malaysia has always been Malay.\r\n7. The mother tongue of the Chinese
    in Malaysia has always been Malay.\r\n8. The mother tongue of Malaysians has alway
    been Malay.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 06:30:37'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ the Dutch have left a legacy of dictionaries for various Javanese and regional
    languages other than Malay, which each have their own script.\r\n\r\nAnd the Dutch
    changed only the Jawi scipt to latin?!\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 06:44:30'
- author:
    name: henkm
  body: I meant anyone interested can take a look at those older dictionaries to see
    other scripts that have now fallen into disuse.
  created: '2010-11-16 06:55:16'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "@ \u2026 other scripts that have now fallen into disuse.\r\n\r\nWhy fallen
    into disuse?!\r\nhttp://topazdiamond.blogspot.com/2009/04/jawi-vs-rumi.html\r\nOr
    you did not succeed in replacing it with Indian?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76305?page1#comment-439644\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 07:16:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was terribly confused. I thought we were talking about Indonesia.\r\n\r\nIn
    Indonesia, Bahasa Indonesia is one form of Malay - according to Wikipedia, it
    is based on the Riau dialect, spoken around Sumatra. But the mother tongues of
    most Indonesians are other languages. Some are closely related to Bahasa Indonesia:
    thus, Javanese is a relative of Malay.\r\n\r\nI see that Balinese is also related
    to Malay; I had not realized that, thinking that it was a Dravidian language or
    a relative of Sanskrit. But I should not be too surprised; Tibetan is a relative
    of Chinese despite being written with a writing system derived from Devanagari.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Wikipedia, Malaysian was officially Bahasa Malayu between 1986 and 2007, and
    now it's back to Bahasa Malaysia again. It is noted as being a second language
    for more members of Malaysia's ethnic minorities (18 million) than it is a first
    language for Malaysians in general (10 million)."
  created: '2010-11-16 17:38:14'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Quadibloc, Still confused?!\r\nhttp://www.expat.or.id/info/bahasa.html\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76305?page1#comment-439613\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-17 03:40:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "http://www.nla.gov.au/supportus/meet-our-supporters/diana-carroll.html\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-03 15:36:01'
date: '2009-09-29 11:55:17'
node_type: forum
title: Roman or Latin alphabet?

---
