---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: 'Having had the privilege of closely observing and analyzing the frenzied behavior
  of anonyrats, I predict a certain pattern of behavior: once the specimen becomes
  generally ostracized because of its rabid, irrational statements, it will quickly
  proceed to making seemingly rational statements &#40;albeit rational only on a most
  simplistic, assumptive level&#41;, and manipulatively baiting people into resuming
  dialog. If you&#39;re tempted to defend yourself and your views, the specimen will
  quickly revert to gnawing mode. The specimen will do this until it is bored - there&#39;s
  nothing else to stop it. Furthermore, the specimen does this because anonymity causes
  the whole process to be an exercise in relieving frustration, as opposed to publicly
  working towards improvement &#40;not even of the self&#41;. The more one humors
  the specimen through this cyclic process, the more frustration it relieves, so if
  you feel a humanitarian urge to help a psychologically unfit stranger, please do
  spend the time. <BR> <BR>But what if one wants it to stop? There is no magic bullet,
  so to speak, but ignoring the vermin often works wonderfully, with no active effort
  required, just some self-discipline. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>John, not afraid of anything, not here anyway. I could write a name, but
    would it mean anything unless you knew that name? If you knew the name that would
    just reinforce any prejudice you may have.</i> <BR> <BR>I&#39;d like to believe
    there are plenty of people I know yet don&#39;t hold any prejudices about. But
    suit yourself, I guess.
  created: '2003-01-19 02:26:29'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; ignoring the vermin often works wonderfully, with no active effort
    required, just some &#62; self-discipline. <BR> <BR> Self-discipline at 3.30 in
    the morning? Got any good jokes? <BR> <BR>M. <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 02:38:53'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Matha: <BR>&#62;&#62; no one seems to volunteer...  <BR> <BR>&#62;If there&#39;s
    no local structure, this would be <BR>&#62; difficult. Something to fix, maybe.
    <BR> <BR>I think so, but... <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Do you have an example or two of
    country  <BR>&#62;delegates who do take the initiative?  <BR>&#62;Might give us
    a few ideas.  <BR> <BR>I believe Jean-Francois has arranged a few events in France.
    Obviously John Hudson has taken on a good deal of work this year in Vancouver
    &#40;as do those who orgaise the conference every year&#41;. <BR> <BR>But on the
    whole there doesn&#39;t seem to be a lot of local activity - certainly never heard
    of any in my locale. I think this is the wrong wa to go about spreading the influence
    of ssuch an org, but mey be the powers that be se local events as diluting the
    annual conference? <BR> <BR>&#62;I don&#39;t think ATypI is elitist but  <BR>&#62;like
    any other longstanding institution  <BR>&#62;it doesn&#39;t hurt to  introspect
    a bit.  <BR> <BR>This forum could hardly be used for that org to be introspective,
    could it - since this forum is not and ATypI venue. <BR> <BR>The venue for this
    I would suppose exists in the members area of the ATypI site? Or at the AGM. Or
    by guerilla tactics. <BR> <BR>&#62;Any chance of a first name? <BR> <BR>Thomas.'
  created: '2003-01-19 05:27:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Re. servicing members &#40;sounds ruder than it is&#41;: <BR> <BR>In recent
    years, ATypI provided members with reasonably regular newsletters and a journal.
    Attendees of the Rome conference also received a complimentary copy of <i>Language
    Culture Type</i> &#40;just one of many books that the association has published
    over the years&#41;. Our anonymous friend is correct to entail that such things
    entail some fixed and non-recoverable cost per member. He is incorrect to think
    that I am seriously hopeful of doubling the membership: I used the figures as
    an example of the economy of scale. I could easily have inverted the example and
    said that servicing half our membership would not be much cheaper than servicing
    the current total. Consider the newsletter or the journal for example: the only
    fixed cost is mailing, the production cost <i>per unit</i> goes down the more
    copies one produces. <BR> <BR>Now, as members have doubtless noted, it has been
    some time since any of us received a newsletter in the mail, and the last issue
    of journal was not printed but only available online via the member&#39;s section
    of the website. The simple fact is that ATypI cannot currently afford to service
    members with such printed material. It is an ineffiecient waste of scarce resources
    to print and mail a newsletter to all the members, when the news it contains is
    delivered in a more timely fashion via the Internet. Realising this, a small group
    of people within ATypI -- among whom Mark Barratt deserves most thanks -- put
    a huge effort into the new website. Members are only just beginning to realise
    and take advantage of the news and announcement sections of the website, and I
    have great hopes for it. <BR> <BR>Of course, there are bound to be some members
    who do not have regular Internet access, and I would like to have options for
    them to benefit from their membership, but given the limited resources priority
    must be given to the majority who can and do access the website. We are, if all
    goes well, at the beginning of a process of renewal, and it is going to take a
    while to get the association to where it should be, to where it can benefit all
    members equally and make serious contributions to the type industry as a whole.'
  created: '2003-01-19 05:29:06'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: John, prejudice just means preconceived, this can be positive or negative
    - depending on the genie conjured up when invoking a name.
  created: '2003-01-19 05:31:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Erratum:</i> <BR> <BR>Our anonymous friend is correct to &#42;entail&#42;
    that such things entail some fixed and non-recoverable cost per member. <BR> <BR>should
    read <BR> <BR>Our anonymous friend is correct to &#42;suggest&#42; that such things
    entail some fixed and non-recoverable cost per member.
  created: '2003-01-19 05:38:47'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: This study of yours Hrant, does it involve long periods sitting in front of
    a mirror?
  created: '2003-01-19 05:39:38'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'Don&#39;t want to really reduce this down to atomic level, but you actually
    wrote &#40;John Hudson&#41;: <BR> <BR>&#62;If you can service 500 members, you
    can  <BR>&#62;probably service a thousand at not much more cost.  <BR> <BR>This
    sounds like a proposal to me to double the mmbership. I would suggest that halving
    the annual fee to those in S America <b>would not</b> result in 500 extra members.
    <BR> <BR>You&#39;ve mentioned the comparative incomes in several countries - such
    a comparison suggests to me not only do people have less money to pay on org fees,
    but also that clients have less money to spend on professional fees to the people
    you are trying to &#34;service&#34;. <BR> <BR>Additionally, given that the org
    HQ is in Europe, servicing members in those countries, South America, is actually
    going to cost more than those in Europe. <BR> <BR>However, I do agree with you
    that the future of such an org is online - bcause of the relatively low cost of
    distribution. Although this of course again impacts ngatively on countries with
    lower incomes. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t really see away around this apart from localized
    support networks.'
  created: '2003-01-19 05:53:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; ATypI provided members with reasonably regular <BR>&#62; newsletters
    and a journal. Attendees of the <BR>&#62; Rome conference also received a complimentary
    <BR>&#62; copy of Language Culture Type <BR> <BR>The newsletter costs are relatively
    low &#40;even if physically snailmailed&#41;, and non-members eventually get online
    access to them anyway. The journal costs are not low, but it&#39;s been a while
    &#40;I&#39;ve received a single one since I joined in &#39;99&#41;, plus you&#39;re
    saying it&#39;s going to become PDF only? Could you confirm this? <BR> <BR>As
    for the LCT book, you only got it if you paid a few hundred dollars for the conference!
    Nothing to do with membership. In fact, ATypI members at the conference who didn&#39;t
    pay for entry didn&#39;t get the book &#40;not counting the post-AGM grabbing
    frenzy&#41; - unless you happened to be a Bukvaraz winner &#40;also unrelated
    to membership&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62; He is incorrect to think that I am seriously
    <BR>&#62; hopeful of doubling the membership <BR> <BR>If we make the membership
    fee local-economy-aware, then it would certainly double much more quickly than
    if it stays too expensive for most of the world! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 07:37:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant writes: <i>The journal costs are not low, but it&#39;s been a while
    &#40;I&#39;ve received a single one since I joined in &#39;99&#41;, plus you&#39;re
    saying it&#39;s going to become PDF only? Could you confirm this?</i> <BR> <BR>The
    last issue of the journal, containing papers from the &#39;98 conference in Lyon,
    is only available in web format &#40;not PDF&#41; on the member&#39;s section
    of the website. Currently, no one is working on another issue. Any revival of
    the journal in the near future would have to be as an online-only format.'
  created: '2003-01-19 08:25:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Don&#39;t want to really reduce this down to atomic level, but you actually
    wrote &#40;John Hudson&#41;:  <BR> <BR>&#62;If you can service 500 members, you
    can  <BR>&#62;probably service a thousand at not much more cost.  <BR> <BR>This
    sounds like a proposal to me to double the mmbership.</i> <BR> <BR>I wrote that
    in the middle of a discussion of economy of scale, as an example of the reduction
    of per member costs relative to increasing numbers of members. Everyone else seems
    to have understood this, and I&#39;ve already explained to you once that it was
    not a proposal to double membership, any more than the same example citing a hypothetical
    1500 members would be a proposal to triple membership. The amount of money one
    needs to spend on each member dimishes the more members one has: precise numbers
    are not important to understanding this basic concept, and I only picked 500 and
    one thousand as a simple example. At least, I thought it was simple. Perhaps I
    should have been more vague: if you have a big number of members, it will not
    cost much more per individual member if you have an even larger number. Understand
    the point now? <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think for a minute that discounting fees for
    South Americans is going to double membership. I think some interesting and worthwhile
    people would join the association, who might not otherwise, and we would be helping
    our colleagues who are less fortunate than ourselves. If this can, in fact, be
    done without reducing overall revenues, it would be churlish not to.'
  created: '2003-01-19 08:43:48'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: bonjour, its the morning here, <BR> <BR>About local, I remembered to have
    organized 2 local events here, ask my usual printer to print two posters to announce
    them and paid post myself to send invitation. The first was a success, the second
    not at all, because of some strikes same day, hum... no chance. <BR> <BR>About
    doing something, yeah, no problem. Take over my job of country delegate, or at
    least participate, by listing all over the year all local events, books, so on,
    connected with type in France. <BR> <BR>More idea of publications welcome, I have
    some local pages, that they will be happy to accept others. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typofonderie.com/atypi"
    target="_blank">http://www.typofonderie.com/atypi</a>
  created: '2003-01-19 09:40:38'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: Good morning, Jean Fran
  created: '2003-01-19 12:42:39'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: '&#62;&#62;If ATypI membership were pegged at $40 US for countries with a
    GNI per capita similar to yours&#39;, would you join ATypI?  <BR>  <BR>John: I
    believe $30 or $35 would be fairer. But everybody here would celebrate a $40 fee.  <BR>  <BR>-------------------------------------  <BR>  <BR>One
    thing that I find very difficult of understand is why some ATypI members are more
    interested in the financial balances than in the possibility of new contribution
    and experiences from others countries.  <BR>  <BR>In the words of some contributors
    this debate is not only about rich and poor countries, it&#39;s about rich and
    poor designers.   <BR>So, why ATypI doesn&#39;t consider all we live in a unfair
    world and there are many good and talented designers that can&#39;t pay the annual
    ATypI fees?  <BR>  <BR>It&#39;s obvious that our arguments are not frecuent and
    this debate is a novelty for many persons. But we strongly consider that a global
    organization must take in consideration that not all designer are economically
    successful and this situation frecuently is not related with his capabilities.  <BR>  <BR>&#40;Designers
    don&#39;t talk about his economic problems very frecuently. For many reasons they
    were educated to take part of the privileged part of society. It&#39;s funny but
    in Latin America many designer pretend to be successful artists being real blue
    collar workers...&#41;.  <BR>  <BR>When Mr. Porchez talks about the poor designers
    in the first world, I think two things:  <BR>  <BR>- Even the poor designers in
    Europe and EEUU have more oportunities and support than our &#34;rich&#34; designers
    &#40;And I remember you that heres there are not such &#34;rich&#34; designers&#41;.  <BR>The
    person who talks about &#34;richs&#34; designers in Argentina is crazy or doesn&#39;t
    know this part of the world in any way.  <BR>  <BR>- And talking about poor designer
    living in the first world. Why ATypI doesn&#39;t have a fee politics for these
    persons?   <BR>  <BR>Now in Argentina there are a strong interest in type desgin.
    There are several causes for that, but at least 4 groups &#40;&#34;Tipitos-Argentinos&#34;,
    &#34;Sud Tipos&#34;, &#34;SantoTipo&#34;, &#34;Letras Latinas&#34;, etc&#41; are
    involved in font developing and learning to do it without almost any support,
    in difficult conditions and only based in his enthusiasm. There are similar experiences
    in Chile, Brasil, M'
  created: '2003-01-19 23:01:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; what&#39;s the actual state of the discussion in the ATypI mailing
    list? <BR> <BR>There is no discussion about this on the ATypI list, except a simple
    link to <i>this</i> discussion that was posted there. I think there&#39;s no disucssion
    because people might be afraid of a cataclysm - I know my list-reading resources
    are at their limit. I can&#39;t even find the time to jump back into the best
    type discussion list out there: <BR><a href="http://type-design.p90.net/lists/type-design/"
    target="_blank">http://type-design.p90.net/lists/type-design/</a> <BR> <BR>--
    <BR> <BR>Until a day or two ago there was a discussion about whether to close
    the list archives or re-open them, and it seems we are winning that one - but
    it&#39;s too early to tell. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 23:16:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; The last issue of the journal, containing papers from the &#39;98 conference
    in Lyon, <BR>&#62; is only available in web format &#40;not PDF&#41; on the member&#39;s
    section of the website. <BR> <BR>The site shows 3 articles, but implies there
    are more? <BR>I&#39;ve been assuming eventually a full printed one would come
    out. <BR> <BR>I personally don&#39;t mind not getting a printed one if it means
    saving ATypI much-needed money, but of course it <i>does</i> reduce the value
    of membership... as well as the cost of servicing members, eh? <BR> <BR>BTW, is
    it not in PDF to reduce the chances of redistribution &#40;thus adding value to
    membership&#41;? But aren&#39;t there free HTML-to-PDF converters out there? And
    wouldn&#39;t redistribution act as positive exposure, probably increasing conference
    attendance, for example? <BR> <BR>&#62; Currently, no one is working on another
    issue. <BR> <BR>:-&#40; <BR>What about asking for help, on the ATypI list, and
    privately as well? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 23:41:34'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '&#62; One thing that I find very difficult of understand is why some ATypI
    members are more  <BR>&#62; interested in the financial balances than in the possibility
    of new contribution and  <BR>&#62; experiences from others countries.  <BR> <BR>I
    find this fairly shocking myself, Ramiro, but then a lot of people cant understand
    why I sometimes work for free by trying to organise meetings, writing documents
    etc.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not about to change my vision of things and I don&#39;t
    think they are either. In the past, I&#39;ve tried to convince people to come
    to meetings that would have been very good for them but they wanted to be paid
    and didn&#39;t show. If I live another 100 years I still won&#39;t understand
    their attitude and they, for their part, think I&#39;m absolutely crazy and totally
    naive.  <BR> <BR>What can we do? Compromise? I&#39;m not so sure that it&#39;s
    possible. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll end with an anecdote I heard recently. Apparently,
    a few years back, Boris Yeltsin wanted to be paid for appearing in one of his
    own publicity campaigns. The PR people were all standing around in the snow in
    Red Square trying to explain to him by phone that he was actually paying them.
    In the end he refused to turn up and the PR crew went home. <BR> <BR>I reckon
    shooting yourself in the foot will be an Olympic sport soon enough. <BR> <BR>Matha.
    <BR> <BR>  <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-19 23:42:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Ramiro writes: <i>BTW, what&#39;s the actual state of the discussion in the
    ATypI mailing list?</i> <BR> <BR>There has not been active discussion of this
    issue, but Jean-Fran'
  created: '2003-01-20 07:06:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Cool. <BR>I&#39;m glad I elected you.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-01-20 07:12:08'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: '&#62;I can&#39;t even find the time to jump back into the best type discussion
    list out there:  <BR><a href="http://type-design.p90.net/lists/type-design/" target="_blank">http://type-design.p90.net/lists/type-design/</a>  <BR>
    <BR>the best? really? My view is different, perhaps, I spend too much time into
    financial balance as some seems to point whithout knowing nothing of my life.
    ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>Anyway, Typophile forums, Typographi.ca, and ATypI list are far
    better in all aspects. <BR> <BR> <BR>I just want to inform that Matha and me are
    in contact now, and we already starting sharing some ideas to built a better country
    delegate website for France &#40;in french&#41; with more news and so on. <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-20 08:40:15'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: 'Latin Americans, perhaps they need to contact first their local Country delegate
    to see how they can built together something locally. The ATypI website say: <BR>
    <BR>ATypI Country Delegates produce an annual report on the state of type and
    typography in their country and facilitate communication and action with other
    ATypI members &#40;&#42;&#41;. They are currently: <BR> <BR>Argentina Ruben Fontana
    <BR>Brazil Claudio Rocha Franco <BR>Mexico Felix Beltran <BR> <BR>&#40;&#42;&#41;
    I think, their role is not restricted to members only, locally. So, if they share
    information to give to ATypI members worldwide, they also have the function to
    do the reverse, bring locally ATypI Worldwide informations. This last way, is
    necessary open to non-members, to attrack them one day. <BR> <BR>If a group of
    10 or more, rather than 2 or 3 guys here actually, built something locally with
    the approval of the country delegate, share info and so on, make a proposal to
    a lower fee for the complete group, its another possibility to find an good answer.
    <BR> <BR>I have a strange idea, but considering the urgent need, why not: What
    about if this group, share a same free email account, to read and post on the
    web, the ATypI list? <BR> <BR>Its better to think about new ideas ourself rather
    than complain to others who is always more easy. no? <BR> <BR>Last, but lot least,
    I thing that the language is a ALSO a strong problem to attrack more members than
    the just economical side. Its also another reason why their is more fluent English
    members than everything else.'
  created: '2003-01-20 08:58:39'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'Dear John: Thanks for your efforts. <BR> <BR>Dear J. F. Porchez: I will talk
    with Rub'
  created: '2003-01-20 12:33:10'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'Open ATypI campaign: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm</a> <BR> <BR>&#40;Translation
    coming soon...&#41;'
  created: '2003-01-20 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: ' <BR>&#62;Open ATypI campaign:  <BR> <BR>&#62;<a href="http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm"
    target="_blank">http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm</a>  <BR> <BR>Now
    this is getting interesting! <BR>Good for you Ramiro <BR> <BR>M.'
  created: '2003-01-20 16:52:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; .... are far better in all aspects. <BR> <BR>Not to digress, but for
    almost a <i>month</i> now there&#39;s been a superb discussion about optical scaling
    and the merits/demerits of interpolation/extrapolation on the TD list, a complex
    issue of central importance, especially in light of the situation with MM. The
    &#34;two sides&#34; have been dueling intelligently and giving enlightening insights
    all around, and the protagonists involve people from all facets of type design,
    from Apple employees to Letterpress printers. I know why you left, but I think
    more perserverance and a better strategy could pay off for you; it&#39;s never
    too late to come back, and the list would be an even better place if you did.
    <BR> <BR>In comparison, the reaction to your <i>wonderful</i> question on the
    ATypI list concerning newspaper typography has been nothing short of pitiful,
    considering the extant potential. <BR> <BR>Trying to bring this back around: <BR>If
    we can get at least some of the experts on the ATypI list to share just a <i>trickle</i>
    of what they know, and actually reply to direct questions in some shape or form,
    you can be sure we would increase membership, since you need to be a member to
    ask something &#40;as opposed to just listening to other people&#39;s questions&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-20 17:09:53'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: Sorry Hrant, but the last discussion on tyd list on interpolation is nothing
    more thanTroop and his speculation / accusation based on no experience at all
    on theses subjects. <BR> <BR>The level is very low there because of such guys
    and poor biased knowledge. Saddly how it is for the the world of type. <BR>
  created: '2003-01-20 17:21:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; <a href="http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm" target="_blank">http://www.geocities.com/sinserif/open_atypi.htm</a>  <BR>
    <BR>There ya go... <BR> <BR>After you do the English, try to have translations
    in other languages, especially those of countries in the same situation of yours.
    Use Typophile, Typo-L, TD and Typographica to find helpers. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-01-20 17:22:05'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[ Moderator comment: In the future, if you want  <BR>to create a thread where
    anonymous posting is disabled,  <BR>but where access is public and free for registered
    users,  <BR>create a thread in any of the other topics. In other words, <BR><i>General
    Discussions</i> is the only topic where open,  <BR>anonymous posting is enabled.
    ]'
  created: '2003-01-20 18:44:16'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Sorry, Joseph, didn&#39;t realize that. I&#39;ll take better care next time.
    I really didn&#39;t expect some of the posters would get so hyped up and would
    start to get personal and stuff. It got quite ugly in some places. Is it so difficult
    to have a civilized discussion about a touchy subject on a message board? <BR>
    <BR>Didn&#39;t want to cause any trouble, man...
  created: '2003-01-20 19:44:11'
date: '2003-01-19 02:25:31'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through January 20, 2003

---
