---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "Today, on the OpenType developer discussion list, Microsoft made this announcement:\r\n\r\n<em>A
  new white paper has been posted to the Microsoft Typography website. The paper was
  written by Greg Hitchcock to help font designers understand the Microsoft implementation
  of the TrueType interpreter.\r\n\r\nHere's Greg's official summary:\r\nWith the
  implementation of ClearType\xAE in Windows XP and later versions, adjustments were
  needed for the interpretation of some TrueType\xAE instructions in order to allow
  existing fonts to work with no updates. This white paper is targeted for font designers
  and describes the instruction changes and how fonts can continue to have their instructions
  behave as described in the current OpenType\xAE specification.\r\n\r\nNote that
  this white paper is not part of the OpenType specification, and will not be submitted
  for inclusion in the ISO Open Font Format. It is provided solely to explain how
  Windows handles hinted fonts under ClearType rendering.\r\n\r\nThe paper can be
  found here:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx</em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I know what I\u2019ll be reading tomorrow afternoon. Thanks, all."
  created: '2009-10-04 01:01:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, John!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-04 01:17:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: ",cite>I know what I\u2019ll be reading tomorrow afternoon.</cite>\r\n\r\nMake
    sure you have a lot of alcohol the drink and a hammer to periodically hit yourself
    in the head.\r\n\r\nBelieve me,  from experience, it is the only way to get through
    these white papers."
  created: '2009-10-05 02:08:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think you just described anything involving hinting generally. But the
    MS whitepapers are pretty good compared to some of the networking RFCs I\u2019ve
    had to read."
  created: '2009-10-05 04:08:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Good lord, James, I thought you were sarcastic. Did you read it already?
  created: '2009-10-05 10:00:28'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: "I was very glad to see this paper and I've carefully read it. It is intended
    to help those who want to make their new or old hinted TT fonts to be compatible
    with Cleartype. So this is my case. I hoped there will be an answer to my question
    which I asked in this topic - http://typophile.com/node/14961 and in FontLab's
    forum about Cleartype hinting. \r\n\r\nI am hinting new Devanagari font using
    MS VTT application. The question was - how to modify Font program to be able to
    make deltas for Cleartype only. Horizontal hints are mostly ignored in Cleartype
    and function 77 (delta instructions) is the only way to correct horizontal position
    of points. Cleartype is now actually the default rasterizer for LCD monitors and
    this makes this question very important.\r\n\r\nIn this paper it is described
    that this is possible. But how to make this - is clear only for software engineers.
    I've read the information about rasterizer selectors and return values which can
    be found in this paper and in TTF specification but didn't understand how to modify
    function 84 (getinfo) definition to make this possible.\r\n\r\nMaybe somebody
    can say in simple words for a font designer - which text to change in Font Program
    to be able to make deltas for Cleartype, Black and Greyscale separately and in
    general. \r\n\r\nIn this paper it is also recommended to use \r\n#PUSH 4,3 \r\nINSTCTRL[]\r\nin
    prep program in new fonts. This makes ordinary deltas to work in Cleartype as
    in BW and Greyscale. Maybe this is a choice if the font is designed for Cleartype
    only. But this is not a solution in my case. \r\n\r\nI hope that somebody will
    help me and my anusvAra sing will at least look like dot and not like line:)"
  created: '2009-10-06 02:54:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Mihail,\r\n\r\nPlease contact me off-thread and we'll see what we can do
    to help.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2009-10-06 14:57:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I hope that this white paper stimulates discussion on this issue as Mihail
    says, Cleartype is now the default Windows scaler and filterer. One of the thickest
    bottom lines of this paper, I believe, is that Microsoft considers there is 'extra
    resolution' in the x axis, regardless of the color of that resolution relative
    to the user's specification of the color of the type. \r\n\r\nSo, in this paper,
    the only documented option for using Cleartype, the x instructions go into Microsoft's
    patented Cleartype filtering, where thinking they can round to pink pixels, or
    red, or dark blue, or occasionally, black pixels, is encouraged and the letters
    stop listening to me. With such disobedience, there is no way I can see to effectively
    instruct x features for the seemingly ever-present 10 to 27 pixel per em range
    of Latin, and get both the right quantity of periodic changes across the reading
    space, and the right quality in the transitions between those changes across the
    reading space for a wide range of widths, weights and designs. \r\n\r\nMaybe this
    isn't a problem in Devanagari, though please let us know how it works out as I'm
    dying to tally the scripts, designs and even glyphs that can and cannot crawl
    far enough up in quality in this resolution spectrum, to read text as people do.
    \r\n\r\nMy feeling for Latin, is that the user (hundreds of millions actually),
    is being constrained to fonts that work with this technology, because some fonts
    made for older technology did not work. So, instead of simply investing in disabling
    the few offending instructions in a very very small number of fonts, Microsoft
    invested in a whole bunch of other things that practically 'disable' all of x
    from a typographic point of view, for the spectrum I describe. Nothing incoherent,
    mind you, just disabled. :)\r\n\r\nThe original ClearType recommendations are
    still the same as they were on release of the Cleartype Collection in 2004: hint
    as you normally would, but without post-interpolation deltas, and if you or the
    users don't like the quality, compel them to find the appearance menu and change
    all of their OS rendering to \"Standard\" so our fonts will look better. Is that
    still right?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-07 14:48:19'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "David,\r\nI think the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035739|conclusion]]
    of the whitepaper made it clear that the recommended solution is <em>not</em>
    to \u201C\u2026hint as you normally would, but without post-interpolation deltas\u2026.\u201D
    The conclusion recommends that the font place the sequence\r\n<code>\r\n#PUSH
    4,3\r\nINSTCTRL[]\r\n</code>\r\nAt the beginning of the CVT program. When this
    is done, there are no restrictions on any of the TrueType instructions. That said,
    the resolution is different when operating with ClearType turned on\u2014but that
    is similar to other technologies that TrueType has dealt with in the past, such
    as non-square pixels on screens and printers. The GETINFO instruction can be used
    to determine if ClearType is being used.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-08 00:46:10'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: The need of Cleartype only deltas is caused by the natural desire to control
    (just a little bit) x direction and there are no other means to do this then deltas
    and moves (horizontal cvt and cvt deltas do not work). If we simply switch on
    ordinary deltas (#PUSH 4,3 INSTCTRL[]) for Cleartype this not only does not resolve
    these problems but creates some new difficulties because these deltas have effect
    on other rasterizers also which do not ignore x instructions. This is a choice
    only in that case if one do not care about other rasterizers (if font is designed
    for Cleartype only). It is not convenient at all to correct x problems in Cleartype
    by general deltas and then again correct these effects by Black and Grey deltas.
  created: '2009-10-08 02:56:02'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: Just one example - my greatest problem is a dot (anusvAra, nukta etc. signs).
    It has (and must have) a shape of rhomb. It is almost twice larger then vertical
    and horizontal stems. In large sizes this difference is not so clear because of
    the shape. But in small sizes it naturally takes 2 pixels when stems are 1 pixel.
    And it is square form and I have to correct this and reduce it's size in small
    sizes until it will take the shape of rhomb. In Cleartype this correction works
    only in y direction - so I have the shape of line or triangle. If I reduce the
    size of dot to the size of the stem - the problem will accure in large sizes and
    in print. If to use ordinary deltas for correction this in turn will effect the
    shape in BW and Grey renderings so I have to correct this in turn by BW-only and
    Grey-only deltas. There will be too many deltas just for one dot (and I have many
    others). I tried other ways and have some more or less acceptable result but this
    shape in Cleartype definitely looks bad in many sizes.
  created: '2009-10-08 03:53:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> I tried other ways and have some more or less acceptable result but this
    shape in Cleartype definitely looks bad...\r\n\r\nI greatly appreciate you trying
    to communicate through the language, font and technical barriers and if you were
    here, I'd give your font a big hug. \r\n\r\n>#PUSH 4,3\r\n>INSTCTRL[]\r\n\r\nGH>When
    this is done, there are no restrictions on any of the TrueType instructions. \r\n\r\nWhich
    is to say they can be interpreted, but wrongly. When I say mirp and round a stem
    bound to the grid, if your interpreter don't, that's restriction.\r\n\r\n>That
    said, the resolution is different when operating with ClearType turned on\r\n\r\nAnd
    to me, working on low res. text, there is no difference between interpreter disobedience
    in rounding, and no x hints whatsoever. \r\n\r\nClearType scaling and rendering
    does not work nearly as smoothly, for the resolution spectrum we are trying to
    deploy readable fonts in, as well as Quartz does. \r\n\r\nJohn has convinced me
    though, that the difference between completely incoherent and annoying saccade
    hiccups is currently slightly smaller than the problems we face immediately. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-08 12:55:57'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: ">  GH>When this is done, there are no restrictions on any of the TrueType
    instructions. \r\n<strong>DB></strong> Which is to say they can be interpreted,
    but wrongly. When I say mirp and round a \r\n<strong>DB></strong> stem bound to
    the grid, if your interpreter don\u2019t, that\u2019s restriction.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    that is incorrect. It does round the stem <em>to the grid.</em> The [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035719|grid]]
    is exactly as I describe in the paper, a sixteenth of a pixel in the ClearType-direction
    (usually the x-axis.) This leaves you with a quarter of a grid fractional hinting
    left. It would make no sense to have less precision with the rounding because
    then you would not be able to fine tune anything. \r\n\r\nGiven the power of the
    TrueType interpreter, if you are unhappy with this level of precision, you can
    develop functions to implement different rounding methods.\r\n\r\n<strong>svayambhu></strong>
    If you wish to make deltas that are specific for ClearType, you need to conditionally
    apply those deltas using information from the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035732|GETINFO
    instruction]].\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-08 17:16:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "GH>David, that is incorrect. \r\nGH> It does round the stem to the grid.
    \r\n\r\nGreg that is incorrect, or at the very least, misleading to the audience
    for which you claim the paper was published. \r\nThe grid I am talking about,
    and 'we designers' are concerned with, is the output grid, not what the scaler
    dreams. \r\nWe have 64ths of a pixel to round to in TT, <em>without</em> ClearType,
    you know... (I invented it). \r\n\r\n>It would make no sense to have less precision
    with the rounding because then you would not be able to fine tune anything.\r\n\r\nIt
    makes less no sense to have more or less precision with the rounding than the
    actual output grid, but please... show me your \"fine tuned\" ClearType.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-09 12:22:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "...or I will write a black paper... better hurry.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-10 12:34:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about writing an RGB paper? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-10 17:13:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, for clarity, is the horizontal \u2018output grid\u2019 on an RGB LCD
    screen a pixel or a third of a pixel?\r\n\r\nWe have a divergence of the scalar
    grid from the output grid (I'm using these terms for ease of reference to the
    preceding discussion; perhaps other terms are more technically accurate?), so
    it seems pointless to insist that one or other application of the single phrase
    \u2018the grid\u2019 is correct. Better to say that the notion of \u2018the grid\u2019
    as a singular phenomenon no longer pertains. From the rendering side, I can see
    how \u2018the grid\u2019 might always have been understood to be the scalar grid,
    which coincidentally was for a long time identical to the output grid. From the
    font making side, I can see how \u2018the grid\u2019 might always have been understood
    to be the output grid, which was happily for a long time identical to the scalar
    grid.\r\n\r\nRealistically, Greg, how is a type designer/hinter supposed to target
    a 3-subpixel output grid via a 16-unit scalar grid, especially since the sampling
    of that scalar grid is non-uniformly applied to the different subpixel colours,
    and with subpixel positioning the outlines may fall relative to different subpixel
    boundaries? If using compatible, whole-pixel positioning, I can see how delta
    hints could be applied something like impressionist painting, adjusting until
    one gets the shape proportions and stroke density one wants -- with the caveat
    that due to gamma and CT tuning this may not be what other users see --, but once
    one shifts to subpixel positioning, all bets seem to be off.\r\n\r\nThe most obvious
    solution to the proportional problem affecting Mihail's anusvara and nukta is
    y-direction greyscaling. I know this because similar dot shapes occur in some
    projects on which I am working, and I am testing rendering in WPF. The hybrid
    CT/greyscale antialiasing in WPF should have been default in Vista CT. Will it
    be in Office 7?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-10 19:57:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> I can see how \u2018the grid\u2019 might always have been understood to
    be the output grid, which was happily for a long time identical to the scalar
    grid.\r\n\r\nUh Oh, looks we have a newly constrained definition. . . John, lol,
    sub pixels have been around for a very very long time. Did Matthew design Verdana
    to the 11 ppm  grid, or 33, or was it 176 ppm... let me think. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tinybigwin_4531.png]\r\n(Verdana
    in Vista for Ikea)\r\n\r\nDo you'all actually think any type designer considers
    this to be fit to a grid for readability? Nice I, nice, l, nice i, nice o, nice
    a. See, I can say nice things about CT. Problem is that we crave 26 \"nice\" per
    size, per Latin English l.c, per user, or saccade hiccups. The instructing font
    designer can only, regardless of whatever you might think to define as the grid,
    address the hints to the output grid(s). \r\n\r\nBut let's mosey around this white
    paper. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft claims here that because some fonts hinted for aliased
    rendering include exploding points as a result of diagonal instructions gone wild,
    the (published) cntrlinst option in ClearType needed to address an imaginary output-independent
    grid gone wild and ignore the x and d instructions. Simon of Microsoft showed
    one ancient picture of such a font, but never listed how many, or who's it was,
    or anything else about that font.\r\n\r\nOne thing is certain about that font
    \u2014 if it was hinted so strictly for aliased rendering, it should also have
    been hinted strictly for the glyph widths. And as it likel was strictly hinted
    for widths, its compatible horizontal metrics can only be reached today with Windows
    anti-aliasing if that font is scaled by TT's undocumented cntrlinst set to \"compatible\".
    No?\r\n\r\nThere are two diverging points to be made from this. One, is that if
    Microsoft needed to keep lots of documents compatible, and it needed an option
    to use widths either from the TT hdmx table in the font, or from the rounding
    results of something else rendering to the legacy metrics, i.e. other than the
    metrics CT would yield naturally... don't others too? Don't a lot of people outside
    of Microsoft need non-MS fonts to be rendered this way? Why is this not documented?\r\n\r\nAnd
    the other point is, if these exploding points were in legacy fonts on legacy metrics
    that should only be scaled by the \"Compatible\" option, why destroy the 1:1 relationship
    between the truetype instruction and the output grid in the \"Natural\" option?
    Shouldn't all and any fonts that even bother a wit for SDPVTL, (the incredibly
    obscure exploding instruction), be treated to \"Compatible\" scaling in CT, and
    the other mode just listen to all the instructions?\r\n\r\nP & Vinegar under the
    bridge. So now: where is the \"Actual\" option that trusts we know what we're
    doing with both pixels and sub-pixels all by our typographic selves? Why are we
    constrained to poorer quality than possible in the resolutions we need to go to
    the web with? Why is the public constrained to quality that ignores the output
    grid? Why are we, type designers, not permitted to create a standard of quality
    for our customers that Microsoft and Apple can envy and emulate? \r\n\r\nI've
    done everything I could to help: pushing customers into \"standard\" Vista scaling
    and rendering, pulling others to FreeType, making all the suggestions I could
    to MS and Apple, and showing hundreds of example fonts. One can redefine the grid
    to anything one's heart desires, but the circle keeps on closing. The smaller
    that circle gets, the higher the pressure, the further up this is going to spout,
    (and the more obvious the 500 lb. boa constrainer in the corner).\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-12 13:18:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I'm still looking for clarity as to exactly what you mean by \u2018output
    grid\u2019. It seems important to me that this be defined, not assumed. Obviously
    MS have assumed \u2018grid\u2019 to be something else, so assumptions are clearly
    not helpful.\r\n\r\nI expressed, in my question to Greg, my concern that trying
    to deliberately affect the appearance of CT glyphs via hints to the supersampling
    grid seems something close to impossible, except in what I would characterise
    as an impressionist way, which is not the level of control I think you want."
  created: '2009-10-12 20:52:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Resolution/points per inch x point size = ppm, (the grid). It started with
    the Egyptians and I know this was clear though the Verdana development. I've worked
    31 years on making screen fonts, this is the first time I've had to 'straighten
    anyone out'.... <em>ever</em>. People either don't know it, or they do, but they've
    never ever made something else up and had to be reeducated, <em>ever</em>.\r\n\r\nCheers! "
  created: '2009-10-13 12:43:45'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "But of course the Egyptians used \u2018cubits\u2019 and therefor pixels per
    cubit.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-10-13 14:16:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, David, so the output grid is ppm, i.e. whole pixels per em. Works great
    for aliased rendering and, as I wrote above, in the case of aliased type the output
    grid is identical to the scalar grid and everyone is happy (except designers who
    want fonts to look like typefaces and not like toddlers' building blocks). But
    subpixel rendering, by its nature, addresses something other than whole pixels,
    which means that the scalar grid isn't identical to the output grid. Throw in
    non-linear supersampling for subpixel colour filtering, and the scalar grid has
    moved so far away from the output grid that there seems to me an unbridgeable
    gap between them. This is the bit where I think we are agreeing, in case you missed
    it. The TT hinting model, no matter how we think about it in terms of output grid,
    is implemented via the scalar grid and \u2019twas ever so. As soon as the scalar
    grid diverges from the output grid, hinting instructions no longer apply to the
    output grid. This makes a whole pile of hints either ineffective or unpredictable
    in their result. This is the other bit where I think we are agreeing, in case
    you missed it.\r\n\r\nOne response to this is to say that the scalar grid should
    never diverge from the output grid. But I can hear that horse heading toward the
    horizon and the barn door is falling off its hinges.\r\n\r\nAnother response to
    this is to say that since a whole pile of hints no longer do what they used to
    do, let's ignore all hints completely and just antialias the shit out of everything.
    Apple call this Quartz, as if the fuzzy-bear type had anything in common with
    the sharpness and clarity of crystals.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's response has been that
    some hints are worth preserving -- since they help retain stroke density; something
    that Mac rendering fails at consistently --, and Greg's white paper suggests we
    can have our cake and eat it: that we can turn back on the hints that are disabled
    for legacy fonts. But it seems to me that even if you turn those hints back on,
    they a) won't do what they used to do and b) trying to get them to do anything
    specific will be next to impossible, especially once subpixel positioning is thrown
    into the mix.\r\n\r\nGreg, has anyone to your knowledge actually made any fonts
    that use x-direction deltas in CT?"
  created: '2009-10-13 19:13:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Works great for aliased rendering and, as I wrote above, in the case of
    aliased type the output grid is identical to the scalar grid and everyone is happy
    (except designers who want fonts to look like typefaces and not like toddlers\u2019
    building blocks). \r\n\r\nThe TT instruction set is perfectly capable of scaling
    letters to pixels, or pixels smaller than building blocks in anti-aliased environments.
    \r\n\r\n>But sub-pixel rendering, by its nature, addresses something other than
    whole pixels, which means that the scalar grid isn\u2019t identical to the output
    grid.\r\n\r\nNot precisely. It means that sub-pixel rendering is finer than the
    hinting's grid, and the user's color specification, But assuming there is total
    instructional control over location of features, sub-pixels can be carefully or
    wontonly used to represent features better around correct counters and spaces,
    or make garbage.\r\n\r\nThere is nothing generally useful in between Apple's approach
    and letting us loose with our skills. But it doesn't look good for Windows web
    users or web developers, universally and for the long term.  A lot of people have
    become interested in why. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-13 23:04:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But assuming there is total instructional control over location of features,
    sub-pixels can be carefully or wontonly used to represent features better around
    correct counters and spaces, or make garbage.</em>\r\n\r\nHere's the problem as
    I see it:\r\n\r\nClearType's crown jewels are the colour filtering, and that relies
    in part on non-linear supersampling. The colour filtering enables Microsoft to
    retain stroke density, and also to provide users with the ability to tune ClearType
    rendering. But in order to do the colour filtering they need to supersample in
    the x-direction so that they can differentially address the R G and B subpixels.
    Supersampling to a 16 unit scalar grid enables them to assign more units to the
    G subpixel than to the R, and least to the B --8, 5 and 3, respectively --, and
    this reflects average human colour sensitivity: presumably for evolutionary reasons,
    we are sensitive to more shades of green than to other colours. So the colour
    filtering is important, and the differential addressing of subpixels -- and hence
    non-linear supersampling -- is important.\r\n\r\nSo in order for a font maker
    to have \u2018total instructional control over location of features\u2019, that
    non-linear scalar grid needs to be broken down into sections that relate to actual
    subpixels, since the location of features is ultimately rendered in a subpixel
    output grid. So that's a practical difficulty for a hinter. It isn't insurmountable,
    but it increases the hinting brain hurt, because the distance an x-direction feature
    needs to be moved across the non-linear scalar grid depends on what part of the
    grid it is in: if it is in the G section, it needs to move further than if it
    is in the R or B section. Then, presuming that the hinter has wrapped his head
    around this, subpixel positioning is thrown into the mix, which means that you
    can't anticipate in which section of the scalar grid an outline will fall, because
    the output grid now consists of subpixels <em>from different pixels.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is why I am intrigued to know whether anyone, even within MS, has actually made
    a font that attempts to apply total instructional control in the ClearType x-direction.
    Greg's white paper explains what needs to be done inside a font to enable the
    full set of hinting controls, but it doesn't demonstrate that having those controls
    turned on actually helps anyone."
  created: '2009-10-14 06:36:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The colour filtering enables Microsoft to retain stroke density, \r\n\r\nWADR,
    nonsense. Their downstroke density is no better than random. The only reason for
    any consistency in Cleartype's x direction is from consistency in the contours.\r\n\r\n>and
    also to provide users with the ability to tune ClearType rendering. \r\n\r\nI
    think that little app is a placebo. Does it still employ italic to show the user
    what text will 'look like\"?\r\n\r\n>in order to do the colour filtering they
    need to to supersample...\r\n\r\nWADR. nonsense. The hints adjust the outline
    to the output grid and the rendering can turn on the pixels depending on how much
    of the pixel is contained in the outline vs not. Supersample in the rendering,
    sure, but in the grid fitting, bull. \r\n\r\n> presuming that the hinter has wrapped
    his head around this, subpixel positioning is thrown into the mix\r\n\r\nWrap?
    Not a problem. Hint left stem border hard, move right stem border relatively.
    The contour takes care of the color and you go on to the white space. You have
    not done this have you?\r\n\r\n>This is why I am intrigued to know whether anyone,
    even within MS, has actually made a font that attempts to apply total instructional
    control in the ClearType x-direction\r\n\r\nYou are kidding me, right. You QA'd
    and managed the only CT font project of all time, five years ago (?) They never
    looked, and you never looked, ( I know, I asked. MS said \"it's too hard\").\r\n\r\n>but
    it doesn\u2019t demonstrate that having those controls turned on actually helps
    anyone.\r\n\r\nAnd it never will. The real problem we face is that the commonwealth
    of reading is much bigger and stronger than any government or company. Looks like
    the only way \"up\" is a shameful paper I would really rather not write. But as
    you can clearly see by the intense confusion in the commonwealth of reading, I
    must. \r\n\r\nBefore that is published though, I want to say here that up until
    2004, I was a universally peaceful and caring member of this industry with good
    relations all around and no reason to criticize anyone's typographic beliefs,
    typographic work or typographic origins. Anyone who's known me before and after
    2004, knows this to be true. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-14 12:37:29'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CT_hint_3849.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\noriginal
    hints pre-Cleartype and client said some characters like this H looked odd such
    as one side lighter than the other. The left image had conditional delta (function
    call to FDEF:77 with CVT VTT INSTCTRL 4,3 added) \r\n\r\nSo I went through the
    glyphs and made about 10 changes to make sure diagonals weren't light or heavy
    etc and then they were a happy bunch of 100,000 Swiss employees. \r\n\r\nSo yes
    sometimes the client moans. "
  created: '2009-10-14 15:17:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "A range of sizes at actual sizes, please. Clients are easy if you know them
    and all their hardware. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-14 15:46:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'no that is how you proof looking at the waterfall and see if something is
    odd. Then fix it as was done with the H making both the same colour. '
  created: '2009-10-14 15:52:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So, after you've hinted it and CT has rendered it as it will, then you can
    go feature by feature, and size by size through the entire font, delta-ing all
    flaws, (except the right side bearing, I presume), and 'fix' an entire style,
    (one). \r\n\r\nBy fix, I mean undo the CT fairy resolution work to the positioning
    that would have been done right by good instructions. \r\n\r\nI've done this kind
    of thing, but they want a size of two, and cross-platform, off web, that's just
    better done in the outline. \r\n\r\nOr do you have a range of sizes at actual
    sizes, please. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 18:27:55'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: "As I understand, CT rasterizer in Windows 7 works almost like in Vista -
    so practically one cannot expect that this situation will change in nearest years
    in spite of all criticism and we will have the same CT problems with spacing and
    x-stems.\r\n\r\nOrdinary TTF hinting effects both screen and print. But CT works
    only on screen, there are no subpixels in print. So the situation is different
    and it isn't reasonable to solve CT problems with ordinary means. But exactly
    this is proposed in MS white paper. Or maybe I mistake and INSTCTRL 4,3 have other
    not so obvious effects except ordinary deltas in CT mode (but cvt deltas don't
    work - so one cannot speak about full instruction set).\r\n\r\nGreg >If you wish
    to make deltas that are specific for ClearType, you need to conditionally apply
    those deltas using information from the GETINFO instruction.\r\n\r\nIt is clear.
    But how? Can you help me and write the code of function 84 definition that will
    make this possible?. Or if it is some kind of MS professional secret, why to advise
    others to use it? Or where it is possible to find more information about this
    to try to solve this problem myself? I understand the logic of the function GETINFO
    definition but I have not enough information to modify it correctly. If this (#PUSH,2,0
    #PUSH,4096,32 #PUSH,2,1) works for Greyscale what are the values for CT and for
    compatible width CT? "
  created: '2009-10-14 19:40:13'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: p.s. Thinking about CT hinting I suddenly remembered Baudrillard's precession
    of simulacra.
  created: '2009-10-14 23:40:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, the fact that you think the reasons MS consider supersampling are
    \u2018bull\u2019 doesn't alter my analysis of the problem that supersampling introduces.
    If I agreed with you 100%, that wouldn't alter the analysis of the problem either.
    This is how CT works. If your argument is simply that CT shouldn't exist, or shouldn't
    work the way it does, then debating whether and how x-direction hints are re-enabled
    isn't the conversation we need to be having.\r\n\r\n<em>You QA\u2019d and managed
    the only CT font project of all time, five years ago (?) They never looked, and
    you never looked, ( I know, I asked. MS said \u201Cit\u2019s too hard\u201D).</em>\r\n\r\nRight.
    That was five years ago, and lack of x-direction deltas was a given for that project.
    There was no talk at that stage, at least not shared with the CT collection designers,
    of mechanisms to re-enable those instructions. So this is why I am asking Greg
    now, now that such mechanisms are being presented, whether in the intervening
    time anyone has tried to make a font in this way."
  created: '2009-10-16 05:39:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>If your argument is simply that CT shouldn\u2019t exist, \r\n\r\nI did
    not say that. Clear type already doesn't exist much on Windows. \r\n\r\n>...or
    shouldn\u2019t work the way it does, \r\n\r\nI said there needs to be an additional
    option to end this Constraint of Commerce on the Windows OS. \r\n\r\n>...then
    debating whether and how x-direction hints are re-enabled isn\u2019t the conversation
    we need to be having.\r\n\r\nIt is, IMHO and AFAIK, precisely the conversation
    to be having. \r\n\r\n>...in the intervening time anyone has tried to make a font
    in this way.\r\n\r\nNo one has come forth. I reckon it would cost between 5 and
    15 K dollars to prepare <em>a style</em> for web use, as opposed to 750 to 1000
    to do <em>a family</em> if x-hints were not tossed into fairlyland resolution.
    \r\n\r\nLight bulb? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-16 13:33:26'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "DB> <em>The grid I am talking about, and \u2019we designers\u2019 are concerned
    with, is the output grid, not what the scaler dreams.</em>\r\n\r\nThere are many
    possible \u201Coutput grids.\u201D Some are hardware related, some are perceptual
    related, and I suppose that some could be scaler dreams. The grid we chose, I
    believe, gives us reasonably fine level perceptual control of the image. \r\nI
    highly recommend reading a paper by Jim Blinn: <i>[[http://academic.research.microsoft.com/Paper/1594436.aspx
    | What Is a Pixel?]]</i> This gives a great overview on the basics of computer
    graphics and the multiple definitions of a pixel.\r\n\r\nDB> <em>It makes less
    no sense to have more or less precision with the rounding than the actual output
    grid, but please... show me your \u201Cfine tuned\u201D ClearType.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain
    this depends on your definition of output grid, but I will make the assertion
    that by rounding to our grid you change both the physical and visual manifestation
    of the data. If you were to round up or down to the next grid location, it would
    be visibly detectable. (Granted it might take excellent visual acuity, but that
    can be the case in high-resolution bi-level rendering as well.)\r\n\r\nJH> <em>Better
    to say that the notion of \u2018the grid\u2019 as a singular phenomenon no longer
    pertains. From the rendering side, I can see how \u2018the grid\u2019 might always
    have been understood to be the scalar grid, which coincidentally was for a long
    time identical to the output grid.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is not clear to me that the
    notion of \u2018the grid\u2019 as a singular phenomenon was ever a stable definition.
    The definition of a pixel is hard enough.\r\n\r\nJH> <em>Realistically, Greg,
    how is a type designer/hinter supposed to target a 3-subpixel output grid via
    a 16-unit scalar grid, especially since the sampling of that scalar grid is non-uniformly
    applied to the different subpixel colours, and with subpixel positioning the outlines
    may fall relative to different subpixel boundaries?</em>\r\n\r\nThe first generation
    of ClearType used the non-uniform subpixel color implementation. The current implementation
    is uniform with two virtual subpixels in the ClearType direction for each real
    subpixel.\r\n\r\nI did not elaborate on this topic in the whitepaper because it
    was not directly related to the topic of instruction-set compatibility. At the
    scaler level we apply the sixteen-unit scalar grid. During the scan-conversion
    process we sample at six units per pixel in the ClearType direction. At first
    we wondered if this sampling dichotomy would be problematic, but we\u2019ve found
    no indications of problems related to that decision.\r\n\r\nJH>  <em>If using
    compatible, whole-pixel positioning, I can see how delta hints could be applied
    something like impressionist painting, adjusting until one gets the shape proportions
    and stroke density one wants \u2014 with the caveat that due to gamma and CT tuning
    this may not be what other users see \u2014, but once one shifts to subpixel positioning,
    all bets seem to be off.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are correct, fine tuning the shape works
    fine in the modes we call \u201Cnatural width\u201D or \u201Ccompatible width\u201D
    ClearType, but with sub-pixel positioning, it is a much greater challenge for
    fine tuning. This is one of the reasons we provide [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035732|GETINFO]]
    with information to help the hinter make the best conditional implementation necessary.\r\n\r\nJH>
    <em>The hybrid CT/greyscale antialiasing in WPF should have been default in Vista
    CT. Will it be in Office 7?</em>\r\n\r\nWindows Vista contains several different
    graphics rendering platforms\u2014GDI, GDI+, and WPF.  Symmetrically smoothed
    ClearType is only available on the WPF platform. Vista has no concept of a default
    rendering platform, it is up to each application to choose the rendering platform.
    I won\u2019t speculate on what platform(s) the next version of Office (Office
    2010) will use.\r\n\r\nDB> <em>Microsoft claims here that because some fonts hinted
    for aliased rendering include exploding points as a result of diagonal instructions
    gone wild, the (published) cntrlinst option in ClearType needed to address an
    imaginary output-independent grid gone wild and ignore the x and d instructions.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the section of the whitepaper on [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035718|ClearType
    Interaction with TrueType Instructions]] I discuss \u201Cexploding points\u201D
    which are typically caused by the PV and FV becoming perpendicular. This is not
    a ClearType problem per se, as it can happen with any type of hints, but the problem
    becomes more exasperated when extreme aspect ratios are used. This is why we use
    super-sampling instead of over-sampling in the ClearType instructions. This issue,
    though, has nothing to do with the \u201Ccntrlinst\u201D [INSTCTRL] issue\u2014it
    is merely background information.\r\n\r\nDB> <em>And as it likel was strictly
    hinted for widths, its compatible horizontal metrics can only be reached today
    with Windows anti-aliasing if that font is scaled by TT\u2019s undocumented cntrlinst
    set to \u201Ccompatible\u201D.</em>\r\n \r\nIt\u2019s not clear to me what you
    are talking about here. If you are referencing the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035734|compatible
    widths mode]] that I briefly mention in the paper, that is not changeable by the
    font program, that is set by the application. A different rendering method is
    used in the compatible width case.\r\n\r\nDB> <em>\u2026if these exploding points
    were in legacy fonts on legacy metrics that should only be scaled by the \u201CCompatible\u201D
    option, why destroy the 1:1 relationship between the truetype instruction and
    the output grid in the \u201CNatural\u201D option?</em>\r\n\r\nIf I understand
    you correctly, I don\u2019t believe that the \u201CNatural\u201D option you describe
    would have a 1:1 relationship with the TrueType instruction. The \u201Cnatural
    option\u201D (natural widths) would still not use the same \u201Coutput grid\u201D
    as bi-level rendering. \r\n\r\nDB> <em>Shouldn\u2019t all and any fonts that even
    bother a wit for SDPVTL, (the incredibly obscure exploding instruction), be treated
    to \u201CCompatible\u201D scaling in CT, and the other mode just listen to all
    the instructions?</em>\r\n\r\nSDPVTL is not they only instruction that can cause
    \u201Cexploding\u201D points. Any setting of the PV perpendicular to the FV can
    cause this situation.\r\n\r\nJH> <em>Greg, has anyone to your knowledge actually
    made any fonts that use x-direction deltas in CT?</em>\r\n\r\nWe have spent a
    lot of time exploring this area, and we actually make significant use of these
    instructions to fine tune the appearance of ClearType.\r\n\r\nJH>> <em>But sub-pixel
    rendering, by its nature, addresses something other than whole pixels, which means
    that the scalar grid isn\u2019t identical to the output grid.</em>\r\nDB> <em>Not
    precisely. It means that sub-pixel rendering is finer than the hinting\u2019s
    grid, and the user\u2019s color specification, But assuming there is total instructional
    control over location of features, sub-pixels can be carefully or wontonly used
    to represent features better around correct counters and spaces, or make garbage.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    believe that the way I\u2019ve described the ClearType system full allows for
    \u201Ctotal instructional control over location of features.\u201D\r\n\r\nJH>
    <em>Supersampling to a 16 unit scalar grid enables them to assign more units to
    the G subpixel than to the R, and least to the B \u20148, 5 and 3, respectively
    \u2014, and this reflects average human colour sensitivity: presumably for evolutionary
    reasons, we are sensitive to more shades of green than to other colours. So the
    colour filtering is important, and the differential addressing of subpixels \u2014
    and hence non-linear supersampling \u2014 is important.</em>\r\n\r\nI want to
    make sure that my earlier comment is made clear. The scaling and hinting engines
    use a 16 unit scalar grid. The scan conversion engine uses a 6 unit grid\u2014two
    for each subpixel.\r\n\r\nDB> <em>I want to say here that up until 2004, I was
    a universally peaceful and caring member of this industry with good relations
    all around and no reason to criticize anyone\u2019s typographic beliefs, typographic
    work or typographic origins. Anyone who\u2019s known me before and after 2004,
    knows this to be true. :)</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll concur :-)\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 00:58:50'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "Greg ><em>If you wish to make deltas that are specific for ClearType, you
    need to conditionally apply those deltas using information from the GETINFO instruction.</em>\r\nSvayambhu>
    <em>It is clear. But how? Can you help me and write the code of function 84 definition
    that will make this possible?. Or if it is some kind of MS professional secret,
    why to advise others to use it? Or where it is possible to find more information
    about this to try to solve this problem myself? I understand the logic of the
    function GETINFO definition but I have not enough information to modify it correctly.</em>\r\n\r\nFunction
    84 is specific to Visual TrueType and how it implements resolution dependent hinting.
    My replies are more generically targeted for how to implement resolution dependent
    hinting in the TrueType instruction set.\r\n\r\nI describe the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/truetypecleartype.aspx#Toc227035733|GETINFO
    ClearType Flag]] in the paper. The important parts are setting the selector and
    checking the return value. The selector for the ClearType flag is bit 6 and the
    return is in bit 13. Example code could look like this:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n#PUSH,
    64  /* Bit number 6 is set */\r\nGETINFO[]\r\n#PUSH, 8192  /* Bit number 13 is
    set */\r\nIF[]\r\n\u2026.\r\nDo ClearType specific hints\r\n\u2026\r\nEIF[] /*
    You could add an ELSE[] for non-ClearType instructions */\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nNow,
    since ClearType is not available on all releases of the TrueType rasterizer, it
    is best to also add conditional code that verifies you are using a version of
    TrueType that supports ClearType. Rasterizer versions 36 and greater (but not
    larger than 64) is OK. Usually this extra overhead is best handled as a function.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 01:19:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Greg: <em>The first generation of ClearType used the non-uniform subpixel
    color implementation. The current implementation is uniform with two virtual subpixels
    in the ClearType direction for each real subpixel.\r\n\r\nI did not elaborate
    on this topic in the whitepaper because it was not directly related to the topic
    of instruction-set compatibility. At the scaler level we apply the sixteen-unit
    scalar grid. During the scan-conversion process we sample at six units per pixel
    in the ClearType direction.</em>\r\n\r\nThat brings your grid back to something
    resembling what David and I would recognise as an output grid, certainly to something
    to which it would be easier to hint than a 16 unit non-linear grid."
  created: '2009-10-17 01:57:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Greg: <em>I believe that the way I\u2019ve described the ClearType system
    full allows for \u201Ctotal instructional control over location of features.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    in a subpixel positioning environment, location of features is understood relative
    to subpixel distances independent of whole pixel distances, right? So location
    of features no longer implies appearance of features, since the subpixel distances
    may be relative to either red, green or blue subpixels (ignoring for now other
    kinds of screens) and the colour of the particular subpixels will affect the appearance,
    and this is why, as you say, subpixel positioning \u2018is a much greater challenge
    for fine tuning\u2019. Is that a correct analysis?"
  created: '2009-10-17 02:03:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Greg: <em>Windows Vista contains several different graphics rendering platforms\u2014GDI,
    GDI+, and WPF. Symmetrically smoothed ClearType is only available on the WPF platform.
    Vista has no concept of a default rendering platform, it is up to each application
    to choose the rendering platform. I won\u2019t speculate on what platform(s) the
    next version of Office (Office 2010) will use.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, let me rephrase
    my original statement:\r\n\r\nNo graphics rendering platform in Windows Vista
    should have shipped without symetrically smoothed ClearType, and no graphics rendering
    platform in Windows 7 should.\r\n\r\nSeriously, without the y-direction antialiasing,
    CT is severely hampered and is getting a bad name for itself, a worse name than
    I think it deserves.\r\n\r\nIs there something that actually prevents the GDI
    engines from being updated to support the y-direction antialiasing?"
  created: '2009-10-17 02:06:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Greg,\r\n\r\nAm I correct in my recollection that Windows 7 adds \"DirectWrite\"
    as well as a rendering environment option? And that it supports ClearType, including
    CFF ClearType rendering?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-19 08:38:13'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "JH> <em>But in a subpixel positioning environment, location of features is
    understood relative to subpixel distances independent of whole pixel distances,
    right? So location of features no longer implies appearance of features, since
    the subpixel distances may be relative to either red, green or blue subpixels
    (ignoring for now other kinds of screens) and the colour of the particular subpixels
    will affect the appearance, and this is why, as you say, subpixel positioning
    \u2018is a much greater challenge for fine tuning\u2019. Is that a correct analysis?</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect\r\n\r\nJH>
    <em>Is there something that actually prevents the GDI engines from being updated
    to support the y-direction antialiasing?</em>\r\n\r\nTechnically, no, but there
    are complexities involved with this work. I think a better solution is for GDI
    based applications to leverage some of the Direct Write capabilities going forward.\r\n\r\nTP>
    <em>Am I correct in my recollection that Windows 7 adds \u201CDirectWrite\u201D
    as well as a rendering environment option? And that it supports ClearType, including
    CFF ClearType rendering?</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-19 16:07:02'
- author:
    name: svayambhu
    picture: 117949
  body: "gregh> \r\n<cite>#PUSH, 64 /* Bit number 6 is set */\r\nGETINFO[]\r\n#PUSH,
    8192 /* Bit number 13 is set */\r\nIF[]\r\n\u2026.\r\nDo ClearType specific hints\r\n\u2026\r\nEIF[]
    /* You could add an ELSE[] for non-ClearType instructions */</cite>\r\n\r\nGreg,
    thanks for illustration code. Can it be used in glyph program or only in font
    program as function definition? \r\nI'm trying to modify in VTT in this way function
    84 definition, but I don't know how to change values #PUSH,2,0  and #PUSH,2,1
    which work for Greyscale. When I'm trying to use it in glyph program and \"add
    CT specific hints\" (CALL[], 18, -64, 13, 2, 77 for example) I have error message
    - \"end of line expected\". I understand that the reason is only my ignorance
    in TTF hinting language. So the last my hope was INSTCTRL 4,3 - to use ordinary
    deltas for CT and change all previously done deltas to black-only deltas. But
    I was surprised again - after adding INSTCTRL 4,3 Black-only deltas begin to work
    in CT also. So, it is sad to recognize, but such an ordinary visual hinter as
    I cannot do anything to correct any problems of CT rasterization.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I see CT anti-aliased appearance of my font in VTT - for me it looks good with
    hints or without hints. It would be nice to have at least an option of this rasterization
    in Windows CT tuner."
  created: '2009-10-19 20:19:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for all that input, it was really helpful. This apparent change of
    topic does not mean I'm giving up on getting the compatible option of ClearType
    documented. I just found a more fundamental issue to address. \r\n\r\nGregH> The
    grid we chose, I believe, gives us reasonably fine level perceptual control of
    the image.\r\n\r\nI'm sure it does, when imaging. But, \"imaging\" theories and
    theorists are making a fundamental error \u2014 assuming that there is only the
    imaging pixel down to the base of the resolution spectrum. Cleartype's one documented
    option of scaling is a perfectly clear example of this, where the imaging pixel
    takes over the grid from the typographic pixel and the typographic theories on
    scaling and rendering. That is not working reasonably fine for everyone, has not
    from the beginning, and now more fonts are needed, in abundance. \r\n\r\nGeeze...
    Just because imaging works most of the time, does not mean it works all of the
    time. And where it doesn't work, is down here where <em>all</em> the pixels matter.
    Then, a harmony of grids' needs to be established where the imaging grid is taking
    orders from the typographic grid, not the other way around. Proof of this need
    (in Microsoft's own practice), is found in diversity: the y axis of ClearType
    seems to work fine in typographic pixels, not imaging pixels, and the writer of
    the \"What's a Pixel?\" most likely wrote that paper on an OS which had a perfectly
    good grasp of typographic pixels in both dimensions, (assuming, like most older
    engineering-backgrounded users, he wrote his white paper on XP with smoothing
    turned off in a monospaced font?).\r\n\r\nWe would like an unconstrained option
    to address your users with what you might consider extra-reasonable levels of
    perceptual control of the type, but they do not.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-20 21:08:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>This apparent change of topic does not mean I\u2019m giving up
    on getting the compatible option of ClearType documented.</em>\r\n\r\nGreg, as
    I understand it, full-pixel/sub-pixel positioning is an application level decision
    via graphics APIs. Is there any way for a font to declare itself designed specifically
    for full-pixel positioning, and to force/recommend use of such spacing?"
  created: '2009-10-21 00:43:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, the grid is gone and we have to apply for export/import licenses to
    send our fonts to China where Latin quality can be economically achieved at our
    new Delta Wing facility on the Wong Wai River. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-21 12:28:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I understand that Delta Burke is looking for some work, after all, she was
    a designing women :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-21 17:32:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> ... she was a designing women\r\n\r\nYa! But someone's put the sacred cow
    ahead of Descartes, which may be a good idea going up-resolution spectrum, but
    not going down-resolution spectrum. So it don't matter if you're a designing woman,
    man, or 'other.' ;-) \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 14:30:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL! Delta was starting to look rather cow-like there towards the end of
    that show but her producers could still say \"she could think, therefore she was
    ham\" :-)\r\nRegarding low rez, hyperbolic doubt certainly comes into play there
    when the pixel data is so minimal. Ren\xE9's coordinates are too few and far between
    to see.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-23 15:46:32'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "I thought I'd show an example image of fine tuning with ClearType on. The
    base image is 16 contours, each encapsulating one pixel with one pixel separation
    between them. The top pixel contour is unchanged by TrueType instructions, but
    for each lower pixel contour, the left edge of the contour was shifted to the
    right by four pixel units. The top pixel contour is 64/64ths of a pixel wide,
    while the bottom pixel contour is 4/64ths of a pixel wide.\r\nI used the SHPIX
    instruction for the shifting.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ClearType
    Subpixel Shift_4403.png]"
  created: '2009-11-12 02:38:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Greg. That's kinda cool.\r\n\r\nI wonder, can you show a run of repetitions
    of this glyph in both whole- and subpixel positioning environments, at a ppem
    in which the subpixel positioning results in variant representation? I'd like
    to get a sense of how this kind of hinting interacts with subpixel positioning."
  created: '2009-11-12 06:03:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The instruction being demonstrated is not, or I should say, was not, used
    in any of the fonts hinted by me, ever, because it is pixel-based, because it
    is closer to a delta or exception hint, and because it only uses the freedom vector
    and not the projection vector, meaning, literally it is not moving relative to
    anything. I.E. this is not one of the hints we use to make \"fonts\" that work
    at small sizes in anti-aliased environs.\r\n\r\nIt's not going to help a font
    through the current assault and battery of screwy sizing, scary scaling and red-faced
    rendering we, (or some of us) now face. It's like being up to you neck in gators,
    and someone tickles your foot and says, \"Does that help?\" (It does: they have
    not eaten my foot yet). \r\n\r\nOne correction that may help the reader here,
    is \"the left edge of the contour was shifted to the right by four pixel units\",
    should read, I believe, \"the left edge of the contour was shifted to the right
    by 4/64ths of a pixel. \r\n\r\nAnd then, there is the interesting question of
    why any baby yellow or baby blue is showing up at all as those pixels are entirely
    not within by the contour being rendered.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-12 13:58:07'
- author:
    name: gregh
  body: "Here is a sample image that addresses one of David\u2019s points and one
    of John\u2019s requests.\r\n\r\nThe image is similar to the above image (although
    not shown from VTT.) Instead of using SHPIX, I used the MIRP to shift the left
    edges. (I also made a version that does the same with the MSIRP instruction.)
    I\u2019m moving the edge relative to the left side bearing point. The images with
    MIRP, MSIRP and SHPIX are exactly the same in VTT. \r\n\r\nI made an additional
    change in the hints by setting the advance width to be 3 1/6 pixels wide. This
    forces a shift when displaying in sub-pixel positioned ClearType mode. In the
    above image you can see the pattern repeats every six glyphs.\r\n\r\nDavid> <em>One
    correction that may help the reader here, is \u201Cthe left edge of the contour
    was shifted to the right by four pixel units\u201D, should read, I believe, \u201Cthe
    left edge of the contour was shifted to the right by 4/64ths of a pixel.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree that is better wording.\r\n\r\nDavid> <em>And then, there is the interesting
    question of why any baby yellow or baby blue is showing up at all as those pixels
    are entirely not within by the contour being rendered.</em>\r\n\r\nThis has to
    do with filtering, and is described in detail in our [[http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/cleartype/default.aspx|papers
    on ClearType.]]   The primary purpose of the ClearType filter is to remove the
    perception of color. This, in theory, is potentially a tunable parameter. But
    the font hinter cannot rely on what tuning parameter the user has chosen. Additional
    factors like the foreground and background colors, gamma correct, and of course
    the display system architecture are going to impact what is emitted by each display
    sub-pixel. So, big picture, when adjusting the edges, you need to proof the result
    closely, and verify the visual results (which I know you already do.)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ClearType
    Subpixel Shift SPP_6265.png]"
  created: '2009-11-17 16:39:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Excellent thread, which I only read now. A small anecdote to \"sum it up\":
    I just visited Luc(as) de Groot in his studio yesterday. We both worked in FontLab
    Studio, side by side. We both had the OpenType panel open and I looked at how
    the feature definition source code was typeset. \r\n\r\nLuc(as)' was set in good
    old Monotype-made TT-hinted Courier New, rendered in GDI ClearType running on
    Windows 7. \r\n\r\nMine was set in Luc(as)-made CT-hinted Consolas, rendered in
    Carbon ATSUI running on Mac OS X 10.5. \r\n\r\nI thought it was funny. "
  created: '2010-03-03 05:25:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "That is so Funny Adam! Mostly because you speak as if <a href=\"http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-fonts/#font-rend-desc\">font
    rendering</a> was what it was when this topic was initiated. Pooooooof! All changed!
    W3CU later old meaning! ;) \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-03 12:55:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nI think my implicit point was: I have no clue :) When I worked
    on Windows 98, I always hated the 1-pixel stems of Verdana and I changed the gasp
    table to make it switch to 2 pixels at smaller ppems. When Windows 2000 came along,
    I hated the default antialiasing that used 21 shades of gray even more, because
    straight stems were black and round elements were almost white. When Windows XP
    came along, I hated ClearType because every morning I felt I had a hangover because
    my vision was blurry and I was seeing color fringes. I complained to Greg and
    Kevin, and they told me that my visual acuity or color sensitivity must be poor
    or something (one of them, I don't remember), so when I visited Redmond some time
    in 2005, they tested me (with funny little color stones that I had to order in
    gradients), and I scored the second-best result of all tests they've done. Which
    apparently meant that what was supposed to be poor was actually very good. \r\n\r\nWhen
    Acrobat LCD rendering was introduced, I hated it. \r\n\r\nWhen I switched to Mac
    OS X, I loved the text rendering, and still do. The no-hint-fuzzy approached works
    for me by far the best. I feel that reading on a Mac screen is like reading letterpress
    books printed in the 1960s. Windows is like offset on glossy paper. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I still don't have a clue why. Completely regardless of INSTCTRL and MIRP. Do
    you know why? \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-03-04 01:55:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam> Do you know why?\r\n\r\nI'll guess: 9% color sensitivity, 12% the experience
    of a black font specification converted to black and grays, 68% that you are not
    a child or distant viewer in need of fonts 30% larger than print, 10% being interested
    in a high quality web experience, and I'll leave the other 1% to Greg.;) \r\n\r\nAdam>The
    no-hint-fuzzy approached works for me by far the best\r\nAssuming you are talking
    about text sizes, it's \"no hints\" when anti or \"all hints\" when aliased in
    the Mac approach, according to the user's specification in appearances.\r\n\r\nThis
    may not be the bottom line, but the combined decisions of Apple and MS, have put
    world wide web text font development in a difficult position with few good clear
    options. \r\n\r\nYour decision, Adam, to switch is perhaps the simplest. Now that
    you have, you can more easily appreciate how much better both \"traditional zooming\"
    (iPhone), and  \"web zooming\" (Safari) environments have to offer without all
    the fuss. \r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 15:59:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This may not be the bottom line, but the combined decisions of Apple
    and MS, have put world wide web text font development in a difficult position
    with few good clear options.</cite>\r\n\r\nFinancial considerations aside, is
    just designing fonts for Windows users not a clearly good option? Won\u2019t a
    font designed and hinted to look good on Windows still look good on macs and iphones
    just as Verdana, Georgia, and the Cleartype fonts do? "
  created: '2010-03-15 16:15:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "James, \r\n\r\nmore fonts look \"good\" on Mac than on Windows, in my experience.
    The difference between very well hinted fonts and poorly hinted fonts on Windows
    is paramount: the poorly hinted fonts really look bad. On Mac, the very well hinted
    fonts may to some look not as good than on Windows (though not for me), but the
    poorly hinted fonts look on the Mac much better than on Windows. A TrueType font
    with no hinting at all will look fine on a Mac and catastrophically on Windows.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 18:33:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nI actually like large screen fonts. Back on Windows, I used
    Opera because at that time, it was the only browser that offered real zoom (not
    just enlarging the type while keeping the column width, which is ridiculous).
    Thank God other browser makers realized it, though I still don't understand why
    Safari and Firefox don't have a normal zoom slider or dropdown list in the status
    bar (which is a standard UI element in Word, PowerPoint, QuarkXPress, InDesign
    etc.). My typical reading size for the web on a 24\" screen is this: \r\n[[http://www.twardoch.com/tmp/typophile_webbodytype.png]]\r\n(This
    is in fact exactly the way I'm reading Typophile. For some reason Typophile won't
    let me insert an image here.)\r\n\r\nEven back on Windows, I went through a lot
    of trouble to fine-tune my screen appearance. When I had a 15\" 133 dpi notebook
    as early as in 2001, I suffered from the inability to effectively set the Windows
    screen DPI to 133. (The \"standard\" setting is 96 and the \"large fonts\" mode
    is 120). In both 120 and 133, many dialog boxes of poorly written applications
    are reformatted, some UI controls such as \"OK\" and \"Cancel\" are invisible
    (pushed out of the boundaries of the dialog box). So effectively, that setting
    was unworkable but I came up with another trick: I took a condensed font (first
    Nina, then ITC Officina in the TrueType version hinted by ParaType) and reduced
    its UPM size so that at standard point sizes it would appear larger. And I set
    it as my standard UI font. That worked a bit better. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I've been
    using this trick for some time: I would take Nina (which is kind of a condensed
    Verdana) and set its UPM to a smaller number so that at the same ppem size, the
    *widths* of my modified Nina and the normal Verdana would roughly match. I would
    get the same number of characters per line with my customized Nina as I would
    with the regular Verdana, but the effective body size would be larger in the Y
    direction. So, while using a font that was \"condensed in the X direction\", de
    facto I was using a font that was \"extended in the Y direction\". Which proved
    to be very effective. \r\n\r\nI remember that the day on which I realized the
    simple fact, that by reducing the UPM size you can enlarge the body of any font
    at a given ppem size, I was a happy person :)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 18:34:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Won\u2019t a font designed and hinted to look good on Windows still look
    good on macs and iphones just as Verdana, Georgia, and the Cleartype fonts do?\r\n\r\nWhat
    Adam said. And, on iphones I have not seen the Cleartype collection, but I have
    remade a couple of them, along with Lucida Grande and a raft of experimental FB
    fonts, (for my own experimental evaluation, and for no other purpose), with name
    tables to intercept verdana a georgia web font calls on the Mac, in Safari, and
    no, the CT collection does not look nearly as good as Vergeorgia.\r\n\r\nAdam,
    you work a lot harder than Greg says windows users will, just to get their type
    right for reading. As far as I've been informed, they generally don't want to
    change even size. This is what a web font developer must plan on, vs. tinkering
    with the upm of a condensed font and chancing users and web developers to use
    it at 2x the user's normal size preference. But I like it if you're happy, as
    ever because what you're doing reminds me of an old double-play combination from
    the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baseball%27s_Sad_Lexicon\">last century</a>.
    ;)\t\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-15 19:00:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I preferred Grote to Mazzeroski, to Stuart :-)
  created: '2010-03-15 20:48:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>This may not be the bottom line, but the combined decisions of Apple
    and MS, have put world wide web text font development in a difficult position
    with few good clear options.</em>\r\n\r\nAs my grandfather, Sherlock Fink, used
    to say, \"Once you have eliminated the unacceptable, whatever is left, however
    objectionable, is what you have to work with.\"\r\n\r\nGood clear options - what
    would be the fun in that?"
  created: '2010-03-15 23:39:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The nice thing about CSS webfonts is that you (as a font developer, at least)
    can tweak them at ends where CSS can only work deal with difficulties. For example,
    there is the [[http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/#relative-sizing-the-font-size-adjust-pro|CSS
    font-size-adjust]] property which tries to deal with the different face sizes
    relative to the body size (i.e. at nominally same point/ppem sizes). But with
    webfonts, the font developer can adjust this easily in the font -- and that even
    in a very undestructive way, by just changing the UPM size. You can even serve
    two different fonts depending on the platform of the client (Mac OS X or Windows,
    for example). The Mac font can be completely unhinted (i.e. smaller in file size)
    and can have a UPM adjusted so that the same web page will render visually similarly
    in both Mac OS X and Windows. \r\n\r\nI believe that the issue of body sizes will
    become quite interesting with webfonts. The old principles of type design for
    print were: make the caps height the same across various typefaces. But this may
    be a principle worth revisiting. In a way, in print, the vertical size was more
    of a set limit, since the page had a fixed height. But on the web, the horizontal
    direction is more of a fixed value, or at least oscilates around fixed constraints
    (because there is an average line length which is useful for reading), but the
    vertical space is much more flexible. The user can scroll endlessly. So much more
    freedom lies in the glyph height and in the linespacing. Choosing good defaults
    is crucial here. \r\n\r\nFor example, the one thing that I actually don't like
    about the ClearType project is that the body size of the typefaces has been set
    so small. Especially when switching from Verdana and Georgia (which were very
    opulent, design with \"caption size\" optical proportions) to Calibri or Constantia,
    everything suddenly looks much too small. \r\n\r\nThe \"this is too small\" perception
    is actually something that sometimes gets through from users to font developers.
    Up until Mac OS X 10.3, the AAT version of Zapfino that shipped with the system
    was set on a 1000 UPM with the normal caps and the lowercase  being quite tiny
    -- to \"make space\" for the extreme ascenders and descenders of the swashy forms.
    But apparently, many users complained that Zapfino was \"too small for its point
    size\", so with Mac OS X 10.4, Apple made a radical cut and... changed the UPM
    of the font from 1000 to 400. I.e. effectively enlarged the face size of the font
    by 250% relatively to the body size! \r\n\r\nTo make it clear: there are two methods
    of enlarging the face size at a given point size:  you can either enlarge the
    face size (i.e. scale up all the glyphs) or you can reduce the body size (i.e.
    set the UPM lower). This will have exactly the same effect, but actually the latter
    method is often more efficient because you don't have to deal with rounding errors,
    changing kerning values or lost hinting. This is kind of like when you're trying
    to have a party or concert that feels like a \"full house\". You either invite
    more guests, or you rent a smaller room. \r\n\r\nSo, apart from hinting issues:
    type designers, choose your body size (and the built-in linespacing values) wisely
    for screen purposes, because in some environments it's not so trivial for the
    end-user to \"fix\" it. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-16 00:22:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>For example, the one thing that I actually don't like about the
    ClearType project is that the body size of the typefaces has been set so small.
    Especially when switching from Verdana and Georgia (which were very opulent, design
    with \"caption size\" optical proportions) to Calibri or Constantia, everything
    suddenly looks much too small.</em>\r\n\r\nGeorgia and Verdana were made in ways
    that pretty much preclude extending their character sets to supporting more diacritic-heavy
    languages like Vietnamese, at least if one wanted to retain backwards compatible
    metrics. Even though the initial release of the ClearType fonts had similarly
    basic character support, we were aware that these fonts were almost certainly
    going to be extended in future, and so we needed to ensure that there was reasonable
    vertical space to work with in the body height and default linespacing. Even so,
    we ran into difficulties during the Win7 Cambria extension work, and I'd argue
    that seriously multilingual fonts probably should be even smaller on the body
    (at least if notions of body size are to remain a basis for type scaling and linespacing;
    only a couple of days ago I was suggesting to some folk at MS that what we really
    need are language-specific vertical metrics settings)."
  created: '2010-03-16 03:25:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026only a couple of days ago I was suggesting to some folk at MS
    that what we really need are language-specific vertical metrics settings).</cite>\r\n\r\nOoh,
    that is a good idea. "
  created: '2010-03-16 04:05:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I also would like to see language-specific vertical metrics settings. Currently,
    I'm thinking that if I ever finish a hangul font, I might produce a separate Latin-only
    version of the font that includes just the Latin glyphs with modifications to
    make it suitable for setting Latin-only texts, including a reduction of the vertical
    space, since hangul generally takes up more vertical space than the Latin letters.
  created: '2010-03-16 10:10:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">CSS font-size-adjust property which tries to deal with the different face
    sizes relative to the body size\r\n\r\n...imagine how long the batteries would
    last in your remote if each broadcaster controlled their own volume. Then imagine
    if it was left up to each broadcaster to figure out the difference between their
    volume, and no standard... and then imagine if it were poorly enough documented
    to spread <a href=\"http://www.quackit.com/css/properties/css_font-size-adjust.cfm\">really
    poor</a> documentation. Does that deal? \r\n\r\nAdam, I have no idea what tinkering
    with the upm does for anything at all in user-space. School me with examples if
    you so desire. All I know is that optical sizing had a place in the print world
    and as Kevlar said in Mexico City, he's concluded from studies that if typographers
    used to do something, there is a pretty good chance there was a good reason for
    it. \r\n\r\n>(and the built-in linespacing values)  \r\n\r\nall gone. what was
    it for, Adam?\r\n\r\n> I'd argue that seriously multilingual fonts probably should
    be even smaller on the body\r\n\r\nlol, go for it!  I'll be on the other side
    of the fulcrum.\r\n\r\nThe  issues here is what users are used to, and the w3c's
    impossible philosophy towards, and definitions of, the most important parameter
    of type to any user.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-16 12:10:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nA <code>LINE</code> table, somewhat similar in structure to
    the <code>BASE</code> table, would certainly be useful.  \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-03-18 19:29:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "not as good as a size table though. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-18 19:52:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: A size table provides information about relationships between different fonts,
    so I think careful thought should be given to whether script/language specific
    metrics might belong in a size table or in a separate table within the individual
    fonts. I'm inclined to think the latter, and that there isn't an obvious benefit
    to putting font-specific data in a table that describes relationships of multiple
    fonts.
  created: '2010-03-19 04:41:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm inclined to think the latter, \r\n\r\nOf course you are! Having such
    a table for both inter and intra-font size issues is RIDICULOUS, what was I thinking.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-19 11:47:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nI think since he nature of the support of these two kinds
    of relationship in the software is quote different, I'd say this should go into
    two tables. I do agree that a SIZE table along the lines of what you talked about
    would be useful. "
  created: '2010-03-19 19:01:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I do agree that a SIZE table along the lines of what you talked about
    would be useful.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, although it still means putting family-level
    data within each individual font, which strikes me as less than ideal. What happens
    if the data is contradictory, which is always a risk when redundancy is involved.\r\n\r\nData
    about what fonts to use in what situation -- whether it is size, rendering engine,
    etc. -- seems to me to belong at a wrapper level, independent of the individual
    fonts. The XML composite font format standard seems to me an ideal place in which
    to include such data, with different size variants of a single typeface forming
    a composite font and the individual component fonts being selected according to
    situation.\r\n\r\nWe have a good opportunity to push this in the standard, and
    I reckon there is more chance of having something like size implemented as part
    of a new layout mechanism than trying to encourage developers to extend their
    existing font support to new tables."
  created: '2010-03-20 00:06:22'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "John, a family-targeted data file is a fantastic idea!\r\n\r\nOne can imagine
    a some quite useful information to be stored in there. For example, it would be
    a good opportunity to remove those two lousy bits \"Italic\" and \"Bold\" from
    the specs, and replaced with something more substantive (a weight number?)."
  created: '2010-03-20 00:43:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John>What happens if the data is contradictory, which is always a risk when
    redundancy is involved...\r\n\r\nThe first skewer-words are always the best-est:
    What a font-specific model of meta data will do is create contradictory and redundant
    data.;)\r\n\r\nI've been to the XML mountain, and IT'S GreAt! But where we were,
    (when I started the size and epar table discussions), is a far distance to universal
    XML c.f.f. compliance. \r\n\r\nSo as great as another new format might be, I thought
    then, that we required a transition period that could either occur in public cooperatively,
    or in private competitively. I interpolated to the best solutions I could for
    a public, cooperative effort. This would have described, if not en-tabled, many
    of the subsequent problems users have encountered without such meta-data, in their
    current transitions from \"expert-system\" to \"public-system\" publishing. \r\n\r\nWhat
    you're saying about the ClearType Collection above, is that you optically sized
    that series for internationalization. \r\nLet me know when you've finished with
    the XMLCFF upgrade, in the mean time, literally, don't worry, I'll handle it.
    \r\n\r\nJohn>Yes, although it still means putting family-level data within each
    individual font, which strikes me as less than ideal. \r\n\r\nArguing for the
    future is great, but dealing with users is nourishing. My apologies in advance
    if you don't know what I'm talking about... again. ;) But John, this is not much
    different from sitting before a 144 dpi monitor, for years, reading black on yellow
    and telling me there is no windows rendering problem. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-20 16:04:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Note: CFF = Compact Font Format (PS flavour OT); CFS = Composite Font Standard.]\r\n\r\nSize
    information, i.e. information that tells software which 'cut' of a typeface to
    use in a particular nominal size range -- leaving aside, for now, the related
    or parallel situations of particular ppem size range, particular rendering engines,
    etc., and all the other situations that might be capturable --, is something that
    needs to be interpretable by software. Sure, one can put human-readable info in
    a font that gives advice on how and where to use that font, but until software
    automatically selects the correct font for particular circumstances from within
    a family, there is no real solution. I don't see putting information in a font
    and hoping that software somewhere will do something other than ignore it as a
    \u2018transitional solution\u2019. Your approach does indeed entail a valuable
    exercise in describing \u2018the subsequent problems users have encountered without
    such meta-data\u2019, but that process does not require or even presume a specific
    technical implementation: it's worth doing in any case.\r\n\r\nThe existence of
    the GPOS 'size' feature and a significant number of fonts using this feature (made
    by the same company whom one might expect to be first in line to support such
    a feature in their applications), for more than a decade, combined with the near-complete
    failure of support for that feature is strong evidence that simply sticking this
    information in a font and hoping for the best is not viable. So long as size selection
    is seen as an optional extra to existing font support, there is little impetus
    to software developers to do anything to support it.\r\n\r\nAnd please note that
    I am <em>not</em> saying that in-font meta data <em>will</em> create contradictory
    data; I am saying that an architecture that makes contradictory data a possibility
    requires software makers to come up with protocols to handle such an eventuality,
    and this is a disincentive to supporting such an approach. You may not like it,
    but looking for data redundancies is one of the first things software makers do
    when they examine a technology, and one of the things they strive to avoid. [The
    OpenType format already suffers from multiple redundancies, in large part due
    to the bolting on of the CFF table. Redundancies were also one of the objections
    to EOT, which replicated individual font data at the wrapper level. CFS is being
    designed specifically to avoid redundancies.]\r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, size
    selection is an integral part of a new composite font mechanism -- one that MS,
    Adobe and Apple have all demonstrated a strong desire to support first through
    their individual implementations of proprietorial composite font formats (this
    is already shipping software, not some future intangible) and second through their
    active engagement in developing a common, open standard --, then it becomes something
    that gets supported through fresh implementation of that new mechanism, rather
    than something requiring changes to existing font support.\r\n\r\nI'm not \u2018arguing
    for the future\u2019. I bring this up now because <em>now</em> is when the standardisation
    process for CFS is taking place, and if size selection is something we're interested
    in seeing in the standard then now is when we need to have this discussion and
    engage with this process. And, David, in case I'm not clear enough: I would value
    your input and influence in that process, because I don't think I can alone make
    size selection a priority."
  created: '2010-03-20 18:27:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, I'll keep my eyes peeled for your thread. \r\n\r\nBut I'm sure you
    know this first: discrete digital outline fonts are what we say they are, and
    as such they can't help but be contradictory; If one of us says Roman, and another
    Medium, and a third says it's Book, and a fourth makes all four, that's what?
    If one of us says we made a 4-style type family for text and display, screen and
    print, is that not contradictory?  And if a single WOFF lands on a user's desktop
    via @fontface, and it describes that it has nine \"brothers\" and 59 \"cousins\",
    is that redundant?\r\n\r\nTo wrap up my input on Greg's paper:\r\n\r\nThe WP's
    Conclusion:<em> Significant effort has been taken to make ClearType perform optimally
    for Microsoft Windows. </em>\r\n\r\nI think this is the case as one can see, but
    what about Microsoft Windows Users? There are a lot of corporations and users
    that don't work well on Windows and I think more effort is required.\r\n\r\n<em>Continued
    support from font hinters is necessary in order that fonts will continue to be
    the most readable and legible on many types of displays and many types of rendering
    environments.</em>\r\n\r\nIs it forthcoming fast enough? Frothcoming perhaps...
    and speaking of which, isn't a quality hinting supply likely to be killed by @ff
    as practiced today, with simple-to-steal derivatives being served?\r\n\r\n<em>This
    paper has described the techniques used to make existing, unmodified fonts work
    correctly with ClearType,</em>\r\n\r\nI'd need a fairly broad definition of 'unmodified'
    and 'correctly'. Mine is to allow experts to apply their skills to broaden typographic
    availability with improved quality over the passage of time for Windows users.\r\n\r\n<em>...but
    more importantly it provides the information to developers of new fonts on how
    to assure the consistent behavior of the TrueType interpreter for fonts by using
    the INSTCTRL instruction. </em>\r\n\r\nahem. \r\n\r\nAnd... it would have less
    contradictory if the paper just said; all size-independent x hints are ignored,
    and all y-size-independent hints are strictly required. \r\n\r\nI agree with John,
    it would have been less redundant for MS, and all of us developers, if they had
    just adopted the T1 format in 1989. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-23 14:52:37'
date: '2009-10-03 03:48:31'
node_type: forum
title: New MS white paper on the TrueType interpreter

---
