---
author:
  name: Richard Fink
  picture: 117375
body: "First announced informally by Mozilla developer Jonathan Kew on the W3C Web
  Fonts Mailing list, it is now official.\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/mozilla-announces-support-for-web-open-font-format-woff-in-firefox-3-6/\">Mozilla
  Announces Support For Web Open Font Format (WOFF) In Firefox 3.6</a>\r\nI don't
  think it's hyperbole to say this is one of the most significant developments affecting
  the <em>business</em> of font design since the marketing of fonts first moved to
  the web as a mode of delivery.\r\n\r\nThoughts? Comments? Questions?\r\n\r\nAnd,
  please, it's time to answer the BIG question:\r\n\r\nIf you are a commercial producer
  of fonts, will you be licensing for use with WOFF and EOTL insofar as those formats
  differentiate themselves from \"raw\" or \"desktop\" OTF and TTF files?"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'll certainly be recommending WOFF to my customers as a format for use of
    their custom fonts on the Web. Its a smart format: easy to support, nicely compressed,
    preserves digital signatures and custom font data, isn't installable as a desktop
    font. \r\n\r\nEOTL (or CWT as we should probably start calling it) is more problematic
    because in a couple of significant ways @font-face support doesn't really work
    in Internet Explorer, so the backwards compatibility benefits of the CWT format
    are hobbled. Some of my customers are commissioning CFF OpenType fonts, so obviously
    I can't recommend CWT because it is limited to TTF. The style linking bug in Internet
    Explorer means that web developers will need to hack their way around this, if
    possible, in their CSS code, and that looks pretty painful to me. So if a customer
    with a TTF font were specifically needing backwards compatibility on IE, then
    I'd have to point them at CWT with caveats, but otherwise I'll be putting my energy
    into pushing MS to support WOFF a.s.a.p."
  created: '2009-10-07 18:48:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: '[deleted]'
  created: '2009-10-07 19:31:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\nIn that WOFF and EOTL are on a par in providing the \"garden
    fence\" that many font designers felt was a bare minimum of a barrier to instant
    installability, my assumption, and I'd guess yours, too, is that we can expect
    to see WOFF in the next version of Internet Explorer.\r\nPersonally, I'd be shocked
    not to see it. And I, among others, will be all over them about it on the IE Blog
    and monthly chats and knockin' on SG's door if I have to. ;)\r\nI'm familiar with
    the CSS issues and, as workarounds go, they are just not all that painful. To
    some, IE can do nothing right and every little thing is a big thing. (Or at least
    an occasion for a snide comment or two.)\r\nIronically, Opera 10's font-linking
    implementation is - unlike IE - buggy as in quirky and unpredictable. Plus it
    deviates from the standard in much the same way as IE. But outside of my blog,
    I've yet to see a word of criticism. And the spin on Opera's development blog
    makes the workarounds for it sound like best practice! (And the even funnier thing
    is: it just might be best practice. The web community is still figuring out the
    most coherent and sensible way to make the CSS work. But until we had real implementations
    to test against, it was pointless.)\r\nAlso, Apple has yet to weigh in on support
    for WOFF in Safari, and until they do, we're largely on hold.\r\nBut it's time
    to get the conversion tools working, surely. Thanks for the input.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-08 03:41:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Thoughts? Comments? Questions?</cite>\r\n\r\nKudos to the Mozilla crew
    for getting this done so quickly. I am very impressed. But I\u2019m more interested
    in seeing what Microsoft does. I\u2019m sure that Apple will get on board, but
    it won\u2019t matter because by then AT&T\u2019s 3G network will have so many
    users that nobody will be able to download a font."
  created: '2009-10-08 04:03:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > If you are a commercial producer of fonts, will you be licensing
    for use with WOFF and EOTL insofar as those formats differentiate themselves from
    \u201Craw\u201D or \u201Cdesktop\u201D OTF and TTF files?</cite>\r\n\r\nRich --
    I find the wording of your question to be interesting. The phrase \"licensing
    for use with WOFF\" suggests that you expect the route to the new world to come
    via web developers \"rolling their own.\"\r\n\r\nI would actually expect that
    most foundries will choose to license WOFF fonts directly. (No \"for use with\"
    necessary.) \r\n\r\nWhen a new font format gets established and achieves widespread
    implementation, then foundries will start making fonts in that format and providing
    them for license. This is what they do -- make fonts, not provide material for
    users to make their own.\r\n\r\nWhat remains to be seen is the licensing and pricing
    models that will emerge. What will be offered to those who want fonts only for
    web use? At what price point? What about both print and web versions? What about
    upgrading from one format to another? \r\n\r\nI don't mean to rub you the wrong
    way with my comment. I agree, this is a potentially significant crossroads. After
    all the hullabaloo, font producers better get on board quickly and figure out
    how they want to leverage this development. And they'd better get product to market
    in a timely fashion.\r\n\r\nIs there an estimated timeline for the FF3.6 release?"
  created: '2009-10-08 16:42:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Will FF3.6 also support EOT Lite?
  created: '2009-10-08 17:06:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: No word on CWT (EOT Lite) support from Mozilla, despite their testing of that
    format during the summer.
  created: '2009-10-08 17:26:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Kernest just added WOFF support as well:\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.kernest.com/archive/kernest-now-supports-woff-in-firefox-3-6"
  created: '2009-10-08 17:54:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"But it\u2019s time to get the conversion tools working, surely.\"</em>\r\nand,\r\n<a
    href=\"http://blog.kernest.com/archive/kernest-now-supports-woff-in-firefox-3-6\">http://blog.kernest.com/archive/kernest-now-supports-woff-in-firefox-3-6</a>\r\n\r\nAin't
    no flies on Garrick Van Buren! I'm impressed.&ensp;Again.\r\n\r\n@kentlew\r\nFirst,
    my apologies to you, Si, John Hudson, and David Berlow for hijacking thread <a
    href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/61804\">Cufon and (c)</a> from a few weeks
    ago and not following up.\r\nI have now read all of your comments three times,
    bookmarked it for future reference, and have written three drafts in reply - all
    of which somehow didn't rate, in my mind, clicking submit. A mental block, maybe.
    Plus I had distractions. And sometimes a blog comment is too confining. Big topic.
    Lots of grey area. Anyway, we're back to it here. Felt rude, sorry.)\r\n\r\n<em>\"This
    is what they do [foundries]\u2014 make fonts, not provide material for users to
    make their own.\"</em>\r\nSays who? I think that's a little presumptuous. Each
    font designer and their agents will decide how they see their role in this brave
    new world. (Note to self: Stock up on Soma.)\r\nSome won't want the headache of
    providing converted files. And, not too far into the future, some technologies
    like SVG <strong>demand</strong> extraction of at least some of the data within
    the font file.\r\nBTW - I don't mind at all you getting prickly about it. All
    the better. To complicate matters further, at the same time we're dealing with
    these new technologies, we're also dealing with changes in mood, meaning, and
    perception among those who create and use the web. I don't have to tell you that
    there are those who quite knowingly will not recognize or respect Intellectual
    Property rights. And they will not go away. But still, <strong>anyone</strong>
    understands: \"Hey, I put a lot of work into this thing, and I'd really like to
    make a few bucks out of it so I can keep on keep doing it.\" Gotta feed the bulldog,
    as the British expression has it. (But let's not go there here. I'll end up with
    \"blog post\" traumatic stress, yet again.)\r\n\r\n@james puckett\r\n<em>\"I\u2019m
    sure that Apple will get on board\"</em>\r\nI'm glad <em>you're</em> sure. AFAIK
    - They have been totally silent and uninvolved in the issue of Web Fonts other
    than being the first major player to support linking to \"raw\" TTF/OTF files
    using @font-face in Safari. However, if Webkit follows Mozilla's lead, I am assuming
    they will incorporate support for WOFF into Safari - all the work will have been
    done for them. No reason not to, unless we're missing something.\r\n\r\n@dan_reynolds\r\n<em>\"Will
    FF3.6 also support EOT Lite?\"</em>\r\nLooks like no. To me it seems clear they're
    ignoring it, at least for right now. It will soon break out like this: EOT for
    IE, TTF/OTF or WOFF for Firefox, TTF/OTF for Safari, Opera, and - the mouse that
    continues to roar - Chrome.\r\n\r\n@john hudson\r\nI'd be happy to start calling
    EOTL \"CWT\" except that few will know what I'm referring to and, as you know,
    there is currently silence from implementors on CWT's status.\r\n(Soon, maybe
    begin calling it <em>CWT (formerly EOT)</em>, or somesuch.)"
  created: '2009-10-09 18:28:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, I think the fact that WOFF is designed, as Mozilla's own notes indicate,
    to include \u2018metadata and private-use data structures, including predefined
    fields allowing foundries and vendors to provide license information if desired\u2019
    is a good indication that the font developers that advised on and encouraged the
    development of the format are interested in things like serialisation of web fonts.
    The format is also designed to fit pretty seamlessly into automated compiling,
    customisation and shipping workflows, and as well as serialisation I anticipate
    things like custom subsetting for customer language requirements.\r\n\r\nSure,
    there are going to be some TTF/OTF licenses that permit you to create WOFF files
    from desktop fonts, but those are more likely to be free font licenses rather
    than commercial licenses."
  created: '2009-10-09 18:47:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"Sure, there are going to be some TTF/OTF licenses that permit you to
    create WOFF files from desktop fonts, but those are more likely to be free font
    licenses rather than commercial licenses.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI agree that will most
    probably be the case."
  created: '2009-10-11 17:36:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...  but those are more likely to be free font licenses rather than commercial
    licenses.\r\n\r\nAnd how exactly and completely would you describe the \"free\"
    web font, (in any format), from the moment the type designer christens it so,
    to the day the employing web site is no longer to be available?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-12 13:24:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't understand the question, David. By \u2018free font license\u2019,
    I mean fonts with deliberately open licensing permitting users to distribute,
    modify, convert, etc.\r\n\r\nMy point to Rich was that commercially licensed fonts
    are more likely to be delivered in the final use format, rather than delivered
    in one format with a permission to convert to the final use format. That's the
    case whether the final use format is WOFF, CWT (EOTL as was), EOT, or TTF/OTF
    with a permissions and recommendations table."
  created: '2009-10-12 20:33:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow,\r\n\r\nDavid, it think it's fair to say at this point that you're
    just plain hostile? opposed? to the use of fonts in web pages unless it is on
    terms that are totally acceptable to you. If I take in total what you've said
    and written on the subject (which is quite a bit) an educated guess is that nothing
    short of a required permissions table <strong>strongly enforced</strong> by software
    user-agents will satisfy.\r\nThis hasn't and won't happen. Doing so would involve
    huge cost and delay and put the makers of user-agents in an untenable legal position.
    Sorry, but your fonts aren't that important to anybody else but you. If those
    are the conditions, you can keep them.\r\nEither you are willing to adjust your
    business methods to the nature of the technology and the work-flow of those who
    work with it every day or you aren't.\r\nMy belief is that if the right marketing
    steps are taken, this can be done profitably but you have obviously come to a
    different conclusion.\r\nI'm tired of the same veiled criticism over and over.\r\nI'd
    love to discuss all kinds of issues with you, but on this one, I'm done. Too much
    else to do.\r\nGood luck to you, really. And I hope we can constructively communicate
    about other aspects of fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers, Rich"
  created: '2009-10-14 05:24:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard, I don't think you understand David's position -- which to be fair,
    isn't necessarily your fault -- and its pretty clear from your comments that you
    <em>really</em> don't understand Font Bureau's business. \r\n\r\n<em>Sorry, but
    your fonts aren\u2019t that important to anybody else but you. If those are the
    conditions, you can keep them.</em>\r\n\r\nThe list of companies and publications
    to whom Font Bureau's fonts are important is extensive."
  created: '2009-10-14 06:05:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > David, it think it\u2019s fair to say at this point that you\u2019re
    just plain hostile? opposed? to the use of fonts in web pages unless it is on
    terms that are totally acceptable to you. </cite>\r\n\r\nRich -- I would rephrase
    it thus: I think it's fair to say at this point that DB is just plain dismissive
    of the use of fonts in web pages unless it is on terms that yield visual results
    that are totally acceptable to his standards. \r\n\r\n<cite> > an educated guess
    is that nothing short of a required permissions table strongly enforced by software
    user-agents will satisfy.</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought one of the reasons that everyone
    was so skeptical about David's EPAR table is that he has never insisted that the
    user-agents actually do anything with it. \"If UAs aren't required to do anything
    with the table, how does that solve anything?\" is the usual criticism. Which
    runs a little counter to your statement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 13:37:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>I don\u2019t understand the question, David. By \u2018free font license\u2019,
    I mean fonts with deliberately open licensing permitting users to...\r\n\r\nserve.
    \r\n\r\nJH>...distribute, modify, convert, etc.\r\n\r\nno, serve. Is Typekit making,
    licensing and serving free fonts? Microsoft, Apple, Anyone? I'm sure there are
    a few pieces of crap out there that might even work for display type, but think
    big. Think millions of users wanting free fonts for their web pages. \r\n\r\nIt
    was a completely non-hostile, simple question. Can you build the bottom end of
    the web type in your head, based on what you know know about web fonts? (well
    not the very bottom, we've got fonts everyone is sick of there, and not even those
    are being served).\r\n\r\nBut Richard's gone now, never to stalk me, so he can
    accuse me of stalking, again. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-15 14:00:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, I never suggested anything at all about either the quality or significance
    of free fonts to the web. I was pointing out to Rich that the right to convert
    to a web font format, which he has mentioned a number of times, is something that
    will likely only apply to fonts under free licenses, not to commercial fonts.
    I agree with you that such fonts are not going to be satisfactory.
  created: '2009-10-16 05:28:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, I'm not talking quality or significance. Companies have regularly bundled
    fonts with their composition applications for print since 1986, or even earlier
    perhaps. Print has a large and useful set of free and cheap font options for the
    bottom end of the user market. Once a user employs a font and embeds it's image
    in print, they are done.\r\n\r\nNo one bundles web fonts. There is no embedding
    ;;;) on the web. No one is talking about the bottom end of the market. Can you
    build a model for the bottom end of web type in your head, based on what you know
    know about web fonts? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-16 13:42:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, when you write about 'a few pieces of crap out there', I think I'm
    justified in taking that as a comment about quality and significance.\r\n\r\nOne
    more time: I was responding to a specific comment that Richard made, and pointing
    out that commercial web font licensing was unlikely to permit the kind of format
    conversion that he was talking about. That's all. That's all I was talking about.
    I wasn't trying to \u2018build a model\u2019 of anything, only reporting what
    appears to be the consensus among font vendors: a web font format will be a vendor
    delivery format, not a user-conversion format. This is the same point that Kent
    also made in response to Richard. Will there be exceptions to this? Yes, I suggested,
    but these exceptions will be mainly found in free font licensing (e.g. open source
    and free-as-in-zealotry)."
  created: '2009-10-16 19:26:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nLook, I get it. It took me long enough but I get it. Somebody
    thoroughly familiar with the retail font business was open enough to step outside
    the PR crap and fill me in.\r\n\r\nI now understand the disconnect between what
    gets said by those in the retail font business and the actions of the people in
    the retail font business.\r\n\r\nJust so we understand each other, an example:
    Vlad Levantovsky posted on another thread that Monotype \"supports\" the WOFF
    format. I shot back that Monotype's EULA doesn't license for it. Sii shot back
    that this wasn't fair. (Still can't figure out why not.)\r\nTwo days ago there
    was a posting on Typotheque's web site saying they \"endorse\" WOFF.\r\n*And they
    will license for it soon* But not right now.\r\n\r\nSaying you \"support\" or
    \"endorse\" something and then not licensing for it in a meaningful way is sort
    of like saying that, in the last election, I supported John McCain but I voted
    for Barack Obama.\r\nYou can't blame me for asking WTF?\r\n\r\nLook, if you had
    your druthers, you would want web fonts to go away. In your shoes, so would I.
    Plus you're uncomfortable with the level of scrutiny it, and guys like me, bring
    to the business of making and selling fonts, I get it.\r\nAnd it's OK. I understand
    more than you could ever know. (In the near future, I'm going to write up my own
    personal story and *then* maybe you'll accept that statement.)\r\n\r\nLastly,
    I meant no insult to you David. I went through a period in my life where I did
    a huge amount of reading about business history and management.\r\nIn my mind
    I was just stating what to me is a simple fact.\r\nThere are no companies - in
    any industry - that are really that important.\r\nAt this point, the great General
    Motors has just about slid into oblivion. To the rest of the world, GM doesn't
    mean a goddmned thing. I still have plenty of cars to choose from. Yet, I guarantee
    you there are people within General Motors who - in spite of what is obvious to
    the rest of the world - still think GM is important. It's human nature, it seems.\r\nIf
    I were a congressman, I think I would have voted to bail out AIG. However, the
    argument that somehow they were some kind of indispensable entity was BS. Nobody
    and nothing is.\r\nEverybody makes their adjustments and the world moves on.\r\nThat's
    all I meant. I have no doubt you're top notch.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 17:28:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Look, if you had your druthers, you would want web fonts to go away. \r\n\r\nWhy
    would anyone in the font business to want web fonts to go away? It's a potentially
    lucrative new market. Wanting to get it right, I understand, and the difficulty
    of getting it right I have a glimmer of. But go away? Why do you think that vendors
    would want that?"
  created: '2009-10-17 19:11:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Richard, don't worry about insulting me, just leave momma out of it, and
    we're fine. \r\n\r\n>Saying you \u201Csupport\u201D or \u201Cendorse\u201D something
    and then not licensing for it in a meaningful way is sort of like saying that,
    in the last election...\r\n\r\nMy sincerest advice is to stop with the analogies.
    They crowd the true picture's details out of your thoughts. \r\n\r\nClients are
    not at all likely to follow the format drama unfolded before us, are they? So
    <strong>support</strong> of them, by us, means we supply the client's design choice
    via whatever web font format(s) we need to serve to meet the client's users' UA/OS
    demands. \r\n\r\n<strong>Endorsement</strong> to us means we think that more than
    one format is good, so we don't do much of that. Clients don't care what we endorse
    as long as what we support is what they need to meet their users' UA/OS demands.
    \r\n\r\nThe typical web font <strong>license</strong> involves the client's selection
    of a style, and the coverage they wish for (one browser on one platform, or all
    browsers on all platforms are the current choices), because that's all they want
    to license, the style. \r\n\r\nThus, we support WOFF, OT and EOTL, endorse only
    OT, and do not license any of them.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-18 16:04:13'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>Saying you \u201Csupport\u201D or \u201Cendorse\u201D something
    and then not licensing for it in a meaningful way is sort of like saying that,
    in the last election, I supported John McCain but I voted for Barack Obama.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a big difference between supporting or endorsing a development of new technology
    and monetizing it. For a new product to be licensed one needs to establish business
    and distribution models and make sure that production tools are available and
    reliable, that quality of products and customer experience is up to established
    company standards, and that technical support personnel is trained and ready to
    deal with the demanding customers like yourself. This is all really hard to do
    when the number of web browsers supporting the new technology is *zero*. Firefox
    3.6 will be the first browser to support WOFF but it's not even released yet!
    \r\nFollowing your own analogy, the election day for web fonts is not even set
    yet and your accusations of font vendors not \"voting\" for the candidates they
    support is way premature!\r\n\r\n<em>I went through a period in my life where
    I did a huge amount of reading about business history and management.</em>\r\n\r\nDid
    you learn anything?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-20 16:59:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "By the way, there is now <a href=\"http://blog.mozilla.com/blog/2009/10/20/mozilla-supports-web-open-font-format/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Mozilla's official announcement</a>. Also see <a href=\"http://hacks.mozilla.org/2009/10/woff/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Mr Daggett's article about wOFF support in Firefox 3.6</a>.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2009-10-20 20:07:14'
- author:
    name: davidmarshall
    picture: 117748
  body: "> If you are a commercial producer of fonts, will you be licensing for use
    with WOFF and EOTL insofar as those formats differentiate themselves from \u201Craw\u201D
    or \u201Cdesktop\u201D OTF and TTF files?\r\n\r\nWhile we're disappointed that
    Mozilla didn't get behind EOTL (given that the world *really* doesn't need yet
    another file format), we will be allowing, and promoting, the use of WOFF for
    our library fonts.\r\n\r\nWe want to keep things simple, so will probably be including
    \"online users\" in the user limit, defining the number of online users as the
    maximum number of simultaneous requesters of information from a server on which
    the fonts are installed.\r\n\r\nWe think that's reasonable and realistic - most
    websites will barely poke above 1 online user, but larger sites will need larger
    licences.\r\n\r\nWe're interested to know how other foundries will be approaching
    the same issue.\r\n\r\nDave"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thomas Phinney
      picture: 128358
    body: "@DavidMarshall: <cite>\"...defining the number of online users as the maximum
      number of simultaneous requesters of information from a server on which the
      fonts are installed.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYou might want to think hard about that.
      I'm not sure how you could define \"simultaneous\" in this context in a way
      that would work well for you and the client. I would suggest doing it in terms
      of users per day or per month or some such.\r\n\r\n@Richard: I'm assuming an
      \"@font-face provider\" is an entity providing font hosting services such as
      TypeKit, Kernest, FontDeck or Typotheque.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
    created: '2009-11-01 19:15:11'
  created: '2009-10-21 11:05:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>While we\u2019re disappointed that Mozilla didn\u2019t get behind EOTL</em>,
    i.e. CWT...\r\n\r\nThey may yet. As I wrote today on the W3C font list, the arguments
    in favour of CWT (EOTL as was) are market arguments based on the backwards compatibility
    benefits of the format. If those benefits are considered important by web authors
    and designers and their clients, then there should be market pressure on both
    browser makers and font vendors to support CWT, and that pressure may be strong
    enough to overcome the political and technical baggage of the EOT-derived format.
    But given that the technical baggage includes the fact that CFF OpenType fonts
    are excluded from the backwards compatibility benefits, the market pressure would
    need to be substantial to interest a lot of font vendors.\r\n\r\nWOFF is in a
    bit of a different situation, in that it has been developed collaboratively and
    specifically with a web font standardisation process in mind, not a market driven
    process. Unlike either CWT or naked font linking, WOFF is uncontentious and doesn't
    come with any baggage attached, so provides a good basis for consensus and voluntary
    interoperability."
  created: '2009-10-21 19:21:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n<em>\"Why would anyone in the font business to want web
    fonts to go away?\"</em>\r\nSolid reasons, really.\r\nI am happy to explain it
    as it was explained to me, by more than one source extremely familiar and involved
    and *employed* by retail font companies. Actually, one of them expressed it quite
    publicly but it kind of zoomed right past me at the time.\r\nWe'll communicate.\r\n\r\n@davidberlow\r\nLike
    I said. I'm have no doubt you're top notch.\r\n\r\n@vlad\r\n<em>\"Did you learn
    anything?\"</em>\r\nNot enough, it seems. See my reply to William.\r\nBut the
    lady doth protest too much, methinks. I was thinking of posting links to screen
    shots from fonts.com to really show how prominently Monotype displays its level
    of \"support\" but it's too much work.\r\n(I wish I could see the reaction of
    web authors to your \"meet me by the back door\" approach to the whole EOT licensing
    thing.)\r\nNice zinger, BTW. But I'm from Brooklyn and there's an old saying about
    fencing with amateurs. A zei gezundt. If you don't know what it means, William
    B. can probably translate.)\r\n\r\n@davidmarshall\r\n\r\nThanks for posting, truly.\r\nThe
    response has been a bit underwhelming, as you can see.\r\nI'd love to know more
    about what \"user limits\" you're thinking of and how that's going to work.\r\nA
    lot of server side software licenses - components and such - work similarly, on
    a kind of an honor system, usually. Insofar as, unless you get quite intrusive,
    it's tough to know how many visitors a site is servicing.\r\n\r\n@johnhudson\r\nMy
    feeling at this point is that standardization of WOFF or CWT is dead in the water
    despite best efforts. I can't see how it changes much, either. It was going to
    be a three format game for at least the next (Richard reaches down and...) ahhhh,
    you can choose however many number of years you think it will go on.\r\nAnd, of
    course, one of the three is off the table because you won't license raw, naked,
    steamy formats like TTF and OTF.\r\nSo prudish.\r\nLooks like TTF only, encoded
    in CWT (EOTL) or WOFF.\r\nIf this is the way it goes, the ball is now really in
    Apple's court. If they don't support WOFF, retail font vendors are in limbo. Or
    so it would seem, depending upon one's point of view.\r\nWe shall see.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-23 06:18:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>My feeling at this point is that standardization of WOFF or CWT is dead
    in the water despite best efforts.</em>\r\n\r\nYou 'feel' this despite the fact
    that the W3C have now put forward a draft charter for a working group with the
    specific intention of standardising those two formats?"
  created: '2009-10-23 07:22:26'
- author:
    name: davidmarshall
    picture: 117748
  body: ">A lot of server side software licenses - components and such - work similarly,
    on a kind of an honor system, usually. Insofar as, unless you get quite intrusive,
    it\u2019s tough to know how many visitors a site is servicing.\r\n\r\nYes, there's
    always going to be an element of trust in customers - we can't possibly audit
    every organization that's ever bought a font licence from us, either for their
    desktop or their web use.\r\n\r\nHalf the battle is instigating a model which
    we can explain to customers, customers can figure out for themselves, and has
    an element of proportionate reward for the benefit the fonts deliver. I think
    number-of-visitors is the right model for the web, but I'm not sure we've yet
    found the right detail.\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2009-10-23 11:38:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">You \u2019feel\u2019 this despite the fact that the W3C have now put forward
    a draft charter for a working group with the specific intention of standardising
    those two formats?\r\n\r\nI most definitely do. \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/63385#comment-374483\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 13:56:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, you wrote in that other thread: <em>If the W3C accepts a format that
    requires we mark out fonts as \u201Cembeddable\u201D in order to be linkable,
    we will be on them like a virus that loves stupidity.</em>\r\n\r\nInterpretation
    of the OS/2 embedding bits relative to web font linking is identified as an issue
    that needs to be resolved. I've made my recommendation, which is that the OS/2
    embedding bits be completely ignored for web font purposes, and that this made
    clear in the WOFF and CWT specs. This is what Firefox and Opera are already doing
    when serving naked fonts, so it shouldn't make any difference if the same fonts
    are in a wrapper format.\r\n\r\nIdeally, I'd like to see the meanings of \u2018embedded',
    \u2018embeddable', \u2018linked' and \u2018linkable\u2019 given clear, unambiguous
    and commonly accepted definitions, reflected in all specs including the OT spec.
    Even if that were the case, there are still situations that remain unclear, e.g.
    Adam Twardoch's example in which a font is actually embedded in a web page rather
    than dynamically linked:\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/webfonts/completelyembedded/"
  created: '2009-10-23 18:49:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> http://www.twardoch.com/webfonts/completelyembedded/\r\n\r\nThat's cool!
    how long will that work with which browsers?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 19:54:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidmarshall\r\n\r\nI was just curious about what the specifics of the
    arrangement might be. \r\n\r\n@john hudson\r\n<em>\"You \u2019feel\u2019 this
    despite the fact that the W3C have now put forward a draft charter for a working
    group with the specific intention of standardising those two formats?\"</em>\r\n\r\nPessimism
    seems the most realistic position at this point. The divides to be crossed seem
    very great. And too many unspoken, hidden agendas.\r\nBut it is only a feeling.\r\n\r\nI
    ask, who will be helped by it all, and how? The only thing a W3C recommendation
    will do is force, we assume, any hold-outs to support either WOFF or CWT (EOTL).
    And I really don't know if, in actual practice, that makes much of a difference
    one way or the other at this point.\r\nFirst, there are thousands and thousands
    of freely licensed fonts to choose from.\r\nSecond, AFAIK, the only major font
    vendor that has made any kind of an effort to hang a sign saying, \"Web Designers
    Welcome\", is Ascender. They relaxed restrictions with EOTL. They started the
    fontembedding.com web site. They've got demo pages. I can't say I'm absolutely
    thrilled with their current EULA and marketing approach - which is also a \"meet
    me by the back door\" affair at the moment, but at least there's been a clear
    willingness to market to web customers on terms that are in step with the way
    web customers are used to working. I mean, you can hope and hope and hope, but
    you're not going to convince working moms to stop in with the kids at the end
    of the day for a five course meal.\r\nMonotype has just made it absolutely clear
    that they will not license to anyone who is not willing to enforce same origin
    restriction.\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009OctDec/0111.html\r\nI
    cannot conceive of a situation that would entice me or anybody to choose one of
    their typefaces - when so many others are available - with that requirement attached.
    So they can keep their fonts, keep their EULAs, and have a nice day. (Oh, and
    don't forget your embedding bits on the way out.)\r\nFont Bureau has made it clear
    their fonts will be available for web licensing if and when an unused alternate
    universe becomes available in which to do so. (Unless my official DB decoder ring
    is malfunctioning. Maybe I'm wrong.)\r\n\r\nBut then again, the changes that have
    already taken place have been positive and very unexpected. Back in when, May?
    June?, any kind of movement seemed out of the question. There was no EOT \"Lite\",
    no WOFF, just an impasse.\r\nAt least technologically, I do have more choices
    today than I did just a few months ago.\r\nThings *have* been bleaker.\r\nSo I
    guess we'll pour some tequila on it, and see what happens.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-24 19:58:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard, re. Monotype: <em>I cannot conceive of a situation that would entice
    me or anybody to choose one of their typefaces - when so many others are available
    - with that requirement attached.</em>\r\n\r\nSo how many commercial font licenses
    have you purchased in the past? What you seem to be forgetting, again, is that
    you probably are not the market for commercial font licensing, and nor are the
    vast majority of web authors. The market for commercial font licensing has always
    been, and will remain, a market of professional designers and their clients. Sure,
    there will be a minor market for font licensing to amateurs for web use, just
    as desktop publishing created such a market for print use. But the major market
    will remain a professional market, and decisions in such a market about what fonts
    to use are driven by a number of factors that you don't have to worry about, e.g.
    consistency with existing print media brand identity.\r\n\r\nNote also that, contrary
    to what you write here, Vlad did <em>not</em> say that Monotype \u2018will not
    license to anyone who is not willing to enforce same origin restriction\u2019.
    What he said was:\r\n\r\n<em>Speaking on behalf of Monotype - our license does
    and will require some kind of protection mechanism be in place for our fonts to
    be used on the web - either same-origin restrictions or root strings or referrer
    checking or by another means (e.g. JS) that web authors would find appropriate
    to satisfy the license conditions.</em>\r\n\r\nSo same-origin restriction is only
    one possible mechanism that will satisfy Monotype's license conditions, and the
    key is that the mechanism will be one that web authors find appropriate. This
    strikes me as similar to Ascender's 'reasonable measures', recognising that not
    all web authors have access to the same mechanisms and that some mechanisms are
    not scaleable, i.e. they might be appropriate to a large company with a dedicated
    IT department and their own servers but not to Joe Blogger.\r\n\r\nRichard, you
    seem to be wanting fully formed web font delivery systems in place yesterday,
    and are feeling pessimistic because this isn't the case. This is just plain silly.
    We're feeling our way, collectively, into new ways of doing business for a new
    medium. Font makers and vendors are testing the waters in various ways -- Typotheque,
    Typekit, Kernest, CWT, WOFF -- and, most importantly, looking to see what the
    browser makers are doing. To me, having watched the type business struggling to
    follow the lead of software companies for the better part of two decades, I'm
    actually feeling pretty positive about the degree of upfront engagement from font
    makers on the web font issue."
  created: '2009-10-24 21:19:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>To me, having watched the type business struggling to follow the lead
    of software companies for the better part of two decades,\r\n\r\nThis a bad joke,
    right?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-01 14:32:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I need to give a talk next weekend about Armenian typography, and it will
    include coverage of delivering non-Latin web pages. Except I'm having trouble
    wrapping my head around all this... I wish I could've stayed for the webfonts
    stuff in Mexico City, but I couldn't.\r\n\r\nSo, assuming there isn't a better
    Typophile thread to ask this (if there is, please do point me there): what the
    hell is going on? :-)  Do we now have a semi-supported (by whom? and what's it
    called again?) system that ignores type protection, and another semi-supported
    system (WOFF, by Firefox only?) that limits copying? What are the chances that
    one or the other will become sufficiently adopted? Will MS be supporting WOFF?
    If so, will that kill the other one? Are there any other systems in the game?
    And does each system require a designer to output separate fonts in that flavor?\r\n\r\nI
    know the answer to this might verge on book-length, so if there's a small set
    of timely articles I can read to catch up 90% that would still be much appreciated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 16:08:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@FontFace, @ Font Face, @Fontface, @ font face\u2026 Is there standard nomenclature
    for this term yet?\r\n\r\nAnd while the players are in the room, perhaps I can
    draw your attention to a thread I started a while ago on [[http://typophile.com/node/63451|a
    master list of @font face providers]]. If you can, please add.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2009-11-01 17:04:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, I my feeling from reading the discussions with only partial understanding
    is that the short answer is: 2010. Now the situation is in flux but by the end
    of next year we likely will have in place the delivery of fonts to web sites that
    font producers can live with, and on both IE and Firefox. '
  created: '2009-11-01 17:13:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nI've covered web fonts extensively on my blog <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable
    Web</a>.\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/category/fonts/\">This</a> will give
    you listing of all the font related articles.\r\nKey in on:\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/web-fonts-panorama-september-2009/\">Web
    Fonts Panorama  - Sept 2009</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/jeffrey-zeldman-questions-the-eot-lite-web-font-format/\">Jeffrey
    Zeldman Questions The EOT lite Web Font Format</a>\r\n\r\nMany links in my stuff
    to take you where you need to go to get your head around this.\r\nIn a few sentences:\r\nFont-linking
    is now supported in the latest version of every major browser with the differences
    amounting mostly to the kind of font file format(s) each supports. (This is aside
    from the usual implementation differences and bugs which will get smoothed out
    over time.)\r\nWe now await as the latest versions of non-IE browsers propagate
    out to users. At the present rate - this is a guesstimate based on past behavior-
    this should be a done deal no later than eighteen months from now on the outside.
    I'm deliberately being conservative.\r\n\r\nBrowser breakdown:\r\nIE - EOT and
    EOTL (EOTL as of late redubbed CWT Compatible Web Type) \r\nFirefox - as of ver
    3.5 OTF/TTF\r\nFirefox - as of ver 3.6 OTF/TTF WOFF (see my article)\r\nOpera
    - as of ver 10 OTF/TTF SVG\r\nSafari - for quite awhile now, OTF/TTF\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 18:10:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher dean\r\nDon't know what you mean by an @font-face provider.
    Please explain."
  created: '2009-11-01 18:11:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice - thank you.\r\n\r\nI'll be doing a lot of reading then! In the
    meantime:\r\nRichard, what's your exact definition of \"font-linking\"?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if this thing is looking to be resolved in the coming months,\r\nI'm very happy
    I woke up now! And my talk will sound quite timely.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 19:01:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ font face provider = companies like Typekit.'
  created: '2009-11-01 21:03:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@Christopher <cite> > @FontFace, @ Font Face, @Fontface, @ font face\u2026
    Is there standard nomenclature for this term yet?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe actual syntax
    for th  CSS declaration is <em>@font-face</em>, so you might wish to use this
    form to describe the feature as well."
  created: '2009-11-02 12:45:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"@ font-face\" is the official term.\r\n\r\n>...with the differences amounting
    mostly to the kind of font file format(s) each supports. \r\n\r\nIncorrect I'm
    afraid. Formats are nowhere in the formula of difference calculation or protection,
    and bring nothing but busy work for founders, joy to software janitors and annoyance
    for server software developers. \r\n\r\nThe differences in specification, scaling
    and rendering are the predicted staggering hurdle. \r\n\r\nHaving watched the
    non-font software industry struggle with the idea that perfect fonts don't pop
    out of a free toaster somewhere in never-pay-land, I can tell you I doubt they
    ever will.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-02 12:57:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tphinney and chris dean:\r\n\r\nI've seen the term FAAS - Fonts As A Service
    used by Paul Irish who also writes quite a bit about this.\r\nFAAS is much better
    (IMHO) than @font-face provider. More accurately describes the relationship. Paul
    Irish keeps beating me in the name game and I'm pissed. ;)\r\nI think Thomas mentioned
    them all. Except Typekit is still in Beta (fill out a form to try) and Fontdeck
    has not, AFAIK, gone operational yet in any way.\r\nIs this what you meant, Chris?\r\n\r\n@hrant\r\nFont-linking
    is, simply, an accurate way of describing the relationship between the web page
    and the font. Embedding is misleading. The mechanism by which fonts are integrated
    into a web page is not equivalent to the way fonts are integrated into pdf's or
    Flash.\r\nThere is an actual link within the stylesheet of the web page - stylesheets
    being written in the language of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) - and so, the web
    page \"calls\" the font file using the link the same way it calls, say, an image.\r\nThe
    link contains a source: \"src:\"\r\nPlus an URL (\"http://thissite/fonts/somefont.ttf\")\r\nIt's
    a link. And perfectly visible if you go looking for it.\r\n(However, there is
    no law that says you have to use the font the page contains a link to. So I suppose
    one could be picky and say font-linking is one thing and the act of actually using
    the font on the page consitutes \"embedding\" but that's sophistry, really. Why
    link if you're not going to use? One implies the other.)\r\nSo, font-linking just
    says it more plainly and accurately.\r\nStraight?\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-02 13:19:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\nDB>Incorrect I\u2019m afraid.\r\n\r\nI'm quite correct. But I
    respectfully decline to go off on what I consider a tangential debate with you.
    IMHO you're doing a disservice to colleagues who are just trying to catch up on
    the basics.\r\nIf you want to play Heisenberg to my Newton, go ahead. But we all
    know how to use a screen magnifier."
  created: '2009-11-02 13:51:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...you\u2019re doing a disservice to colleagues who are just trying to catch
    up on the basics.\r\n\r\nReally.\r\n\r\nYou stated:\r\n<em>Font-linking is now
    supported in the latest version of every major browser with the differences amounting
    mostly to the kind of font file format(s) each supports.</em>\r\n\r\n@font-face,
    (please use the terms), is now supported in the latest version so every major
    browser and can link to fonts. Significant differences, amounting to the difference
    between readability and invisibility between two browser's @font-face support,
    is a single incorrect command or font choice away. \r\n\r\nDifferences from browser
    to browser, entirely unrelated to font format, are apparent to anyone working
    on, as opposed to talking about helping web and type designers. \r\n\r\nThere
    is no longer a more basic issue, and I see no tangent, or debate, you supply that
    yourself nearly every post;)\r\n\r\nRF: <em> (However, there is no law that says
    you have to use the font the page contains a link to. So I suppose one could be
    picky and say font-linking is one thing and the act of actually using the font
    on the page consitutes \u201Cembedding\u201D but that\u2019s sophistry, really.
    Why link if you\u2019re not going to use? One implies the other.)</em> ?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-02 14:56:36'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>Monotype has just made it absolutely clear that they will
    not license to anyone who is not willing to enforce same origin restriction.\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009OctDec/0111.html\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nRichard,
    I hope you do understand that Monotype (and any other font vendor) has the obligation
    to protect our IP, and that the EULA is the only legal remedy we have. If you
    read my message carefully (and I would like to thank John Hudson for pointing
    this out before I had a chance to do it) you would see that I said Monotype would
    require \"some kind of protection mechanism be in place\" giving the reasonable
    choice of a particular tool to web authors.\r\n\r\nBased on your comment (quoted
    above), I also feel I need to clarify what same-origin restriction is, and most
    importantly what it is <strong>not</strong>! Same-origin restriction (a.k.a. <a
    href=\"http://www.w3.org/TR/access-control/\">Cross-Origin Resource Sharing</a>
    or CORS) is the technology being developed by W3C and implemented by Mozilla Firefox
    (and, hopefully, soon by all other browsers). It is applied by a browser by default,
    which means that the font (or any other resource linked in your CSS or HTML page)
    will only allowed to be used if it comes from the same origin (i.e. both font
    and HTML page are located on your server). The key here is that you, as a web
    author, do not have to do *anything* to enforce same-origin restriction, you only
    need to do *something* <strong>if</strong> you want to relax this restriction
    and allow HTML pages from other website link to the fonts hosted on your server.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I do want to see happened is to have other browsers supporting same-origin restriction
    sooner rather than later, and this was the essence of my message I tried to convey
    on W3C font list. You took the message out of context and completely misinterpreted
    its meaning. \r\n\r\nI'd like to make an offer- any time you feel like you need
    to vent an anger directed to either me personally, or my company - please feel
    free to contact me directly first - I do think that I could've helped address
    many of your concerns.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVlad\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 23:26:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Dear Vlad,\r\n\r\nI'm quite aware that you are just doing your job and that
    you are answerable to Monotype's stakeholders.\r\nBut I'm a web yenta and part
    of <strong>my</strong> job, as a self-appointed busybody, is to point out that
    what I said you said, you clearly did say.\r\nIn the post to the www-font group
    to which you've linked, you wrote this:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"Speaking on behalf
    of Monotype - our license does and will require some kind of protection mechanism
    be in place for our fonts to be used on the web - either same-origin restrictions
    or root strings or referrer checking or by another means (e.g. JS) that web authors
    would find appropriate to satisfy the license conditions.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo,
    since there is not, and can never be, any certainty that all user agents will
    implement CORS, the simple fact of the matter is that you won't be licensing to
    anybody that isn't willing to implement some kind of referer checking or other
    server-side or JavaScript equivalent, of CORS.\r\nEvery time one barrier comes
    down, there seems to be another one preventing you from licensing for the web.\r\n\r\nAnd
    please don't try to paint me as \"angry\", or \"radical\", or anything of the
    sort. If I had contacted you privately, what were you going to say? That you didn't
    say or mean what you clearly wrote?\r\nNow, by \"you\", Vlad, I mean Monotype:\r\nA
    lot of people of good faith have tried hard to hold up an umbrella in the hopes
    that you could and would more comfortably begin licensing for @font-face, but
    so far, all you've done is complain that it's raining.\r\nAs little as a week
    ago I probably seemed like a voice in the wilderness. But not anymore, I would
    imagine.\r\nEnough."
  created: '2009-11-05 14:22:28'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "@Richard\r\n\r\nI believe I've made a number of attempts in good faith to
    explain why it's unreasonable to expect to see EULA changed overnight, every time
    some news comes out. Licensing is about running a business, we are not in a position
    to change the EULA just to get a PR. I know you've quoted \"somebody thoroughly
    familiar with the retail font business\" as your source, but since you obviously
    do not hear what I and other people are saying - maybe you should follow the advice
    from <a href=\"http://www.zeldman.com/2009/10/31/house-party/#comment-49535\">somebody
    who is thoroughly familiar with the retail font business</a>.\r\n\r\nZei gezunt
    (as my grandma used to say).\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 23:31:58'
date: '2009-10-07 18:01:32'
node_type: forum
title: Next Upgrade Of Firefox To Support Web Open Font Format (WOFF)

---
