---
author:
  name: Zara Evens
  picture: 110565
body: "Awesome.\r\n\r\nhttp://cityfile.com/dailyfile/7508"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: FB should demand another million for NBC associating the fonts with the horrible
    cast SNL has had over the last couple of seasons. Best wishes for the settlement!
  created: '2009-10-09 00:22:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Someone should have checked which fonts were used in the examples in the illustration
    that accompanies the article. Isn't the SNL logo set in Gotham (not from FB)?
  created: '2009-10-09 00:34:50'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: "Learn the difference between a single-user license and a site license <strong>before</strong>
    you use the fonts in your nationwide marketing materials.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TheMoreYouKnow_3611.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-09 02:47:14'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Looks like Sam and Dave are looking to retire early.\r\n\r\nShame they did
    not go after the piracy of my font with the same vigor! \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-09 03:39:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> \"no less than $2 million\",  \"caused injury to Font Bureau's relationships
    with present  and prospective customers,\" \"will cause confusion, mistake and
    deception as to the source of Font Bureau's trademarks.\"\r\n\r\nwho's the lawyer?
    \ with that he wants to go to court? \r\n\r\n>\"which would only permit the company
    to install the typefaces on a single computer.... But NBC went ahead and copied
    the fonts\"\r\n\r\nso, that was in-house design, for sure?\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-09 03:41:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Michael, \r\n\r\nIf your font(s) had been in this situation, the same actions
    would have resulted. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-09 12:38:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Maybe Nick Cooke should check to see if they have an appropriate license for
    Houschka Pro?
  created: '2009-10-09 13:27:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Discussions are ongoing at the moment Kent.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-10-09 13:34:58'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "I'm left wondering if NBC\u2019s designer(s) are going to get canned for
    not being more attentive to the EULA. When your design work gets that level of
    exposure, you have to be prepared to deal with the consequences of not knowing
    or abiding by protocol."
  created: '2009-10-09 13:46:39'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Actually, I would say  the Font Bureau\u2019s \u201Crelationship with present...
    customers\u201D was to tacitly permit nonlicensed use... up to the moment that
    suit was filed. It seems to be a method of warning \u201Cprospective customers\u201D
    that \u201Cwe\u2019ll sue the shit out of you if you so much as look at us funny.\u201D
    This, incidentally, might not be a bad attitude to take. Somebody\u2019s got to.\r\n\r\nAre
    we not allowed to utter the word \u201CSwifte\u201D\_here?\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe
    Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-09 13:57:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "David\r\n\r\nPouty was ripped and re-copyrighted by a Russian woman and ultimately
    given away. The last time I looked at the site there were 243 downloads. When
    I reported it a year ago I was told foundries were only going after the \"BIG\"
    guys.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-09 15:36:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@David H: Frank Martinez is the lawyer for Font Bureau. Few people (if anyone)
    know more about the intellectual property laws surrounding fonts. Among other
    things, Frank is a former graphic designer, and a former patent office examiner....\r\n\r\n@Michael:
    Was the Russian woman living in Russia?\r\n\r\nI've never heard of any font IP
    case being prosecuted successfully in Russia, and I've heard several lawyers in
    the industry say that it is pointless to even try.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-09 18:14:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Yes, she lives in Russia. I also informed you, or Adobe rather, that Bickham
    was being ripped, along with some Linotype and several other foundries. I was
    amazed at the site. Pretty brazen. I think at one time she was associated with
    ITC. I think Frank got involved and quite a bit of it was pulled down, but Pouty
    persisted for quite some time. Available on the \"101\" site and a ton were downloaded.
    Just roughly, I calculated the losses at about 7500. Now whether they would have
    \"BOUGHT\" them is a whole different question.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-09 18:49:32'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "I think that this lawsuit is a good thing; it reminds people that misusing
    a license or someone's IP is wrong. It is good publicity for the type industry
    as a whole. Don't you think more people will become aware of proper font licensing
    as a result? I just saw something on the WSJ about it.\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.wsj.com/law/2009/10/09/nbc-hit-with-font-infringement-suit-of-all-things/"
  created: '2009-10-09 19:04:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Yep. I am confused to see that type designers lament about EULA violations
    yet if one of them responds that's not right either. My spontaneous reaction is
    thank you.
  created: '2009-10-09 19:09:41'
- author:
    name: yipyop
    picture: 110307
  body: Makes me think IKEA's recent corporate typeface switcheroo may not be such
    a dumb idea after all? ;)
  created: '2009-10-09 21:26:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Frank Martinez is well suited for the job.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-09 22:08:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: I hope this goes to a decision, not a settlement.
  created: '2009-10-09 22:15:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@zara evens\r\n\r\nThank you so much for posting this. Awesome indeed, but
    to me for different reasons, I suspect. I've been reading the complaint and looking
    at the exhibits - all of it available via Scribd links in the article. (Ya gotta
    love the web.)\r\nI now doubly hope this goes to a decision and not a settlement
    because then there will be an extensive transcript, too.\r\n\r\nTwo facts stand
    out to me so far:\r\n\r\n1) The three fonts Font Bureau is claiming to have been
    infringed are \"Bureau Grotesque\", \"Antenna\", and \"Interstate\".\r\nI am now
    deeply interested to what degree those fonts can be considered \"original expression\".\r\nI
    would imagine this would also be one line of defense for NBC.\r\n\r\n2) The invoice
    to NBC for those fonts (bought online) is being used as prima facia evidence that
    NBC both obtained (paid for it, certainly) and used (presumably) those fonts in
    violation - or so plaintiff says - of Font Bureau's EULA.\r\nI'm sure it will
    also be claimed that the invoice amounts to a tacit acknowledgment by NBC that
    said fonts are, indeed, copyrightable and that the license terms are, therefore,
    legit.\r\n\r\nBut since there are so many typefaces nearly identical in design,
    and the designers at a behemoth like NBC would surely experiment with many different
    fonts before making a decision, how is it going to be ascertained that NBC did,
    indeed, use these three exact fonts?\r\n\r\nFascinating.\r\n\r\nThe simple truth
    is that any font designer can bring a suit claiming infringement against anyone
    and do so relatively cheaply. But defending against it can be very expensive no
    matter how off-the-mark it may be.\r\nHowever, if the basis of the complaint is
    just a similarity in <em>look</em>, it's a rather thin argument. Bolstering it
    with a documented purchase, however, much stronger.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, for
    some, the lesson here might be to think twice before buying <strong>any</strong>
    commercial font.\r\n\r\nThis isn't a football game where one roots for one or
    the other \"side\". There's always two sides and real-world consequences.\r\n\r\nAwesome."
  created: '2009-10-10 00:34:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: How does original expression even figure into it at this point? NBC used fonts
    which can be proved to be those owned by Font Bureau.
  created: '2009-10-10 00:43:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Rich, this is a straightforward software license violation suit, just like
    many others in which a software licensor sues a company for either unlicensed
    use of software or for violation of a license agreement. The fact that the software
    in question is fonts rather than, say, Adobe Photoshop, is irrelevant: this is
    a software licensing suit, not a typeface intellectual property suit.'
  created: '2009-10-10 04:00:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I should just leave legal matters to lawyers since my legal authority is
    limited to watching episodes of \"Boston Legal\" on another network :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-10 05:41:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Can one actually get a law degree at any McDonald's in Canada? I heard that
    if you buy one happy meal, one hot apple pie, a piping hot cup of coffee and no
    tray, you get a diploma from Cole's Law University, located just south of Mouse
    Jaw. It must be true, I heard it here. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-10 12:58:09'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Don\u2019t ask me, Berlow. I don\u2019t eat at McDonald\u2019s, since everything
    there is steeped in cow fat.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-10 15:01:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: On the other hand, Joe, you are unlikely to hear the word charcuterie uttered
    in McDonalds. :)
  created: '2009-10-10 20:19:07'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Michael, I share your frustration about the sites offering unlicensed fonts
    for download, but I think the Font Bureau\u2019s efforts are wisely placed in
    the prosecution of high-profile unlicensed font <em>use</em> more than their distribution
    by entities that are much more difficult to track and enforce. A case like this
    offers the most bang for the buck in publicizing the importance of proper licensing. "
  created: '2009-10-11 01:43:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n<em>\"this is a software licensing suit, not a typeface
    intellectual property suit.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI <em>think</em> I understand what you
    mean by this. But one line of defense is always that said property was not eligible,
    as IP, for licensing at all. (In patent suits, invalidating the patent is always
    the surest - and sometimes the easiest - way to go but whether that line is available
    here, I have no idea.)\r\nI mean, can you license an egg? Unless you pay extra,
    you can only eat it hard-boiled, not scrambled or poached? I don't know.\r\n\r\nI
    have two questions I will be calling Martinez's office about, as a journalist,
    on Tuesday:\r\n\r\n1) Was NBC given, prior to filing the suit, the opportunity
    to rectify Font Bureau's claim by simply purchasing a license that covered the
    usage?\r\n\r\n2) Is Herb Martinez's firm working on a contingency or partial contingency
    basis?\r\n\r\nOf course, I may have more questions by then. \r\n\r\nDo they do
    Columbus Day in Canada?\r\n\r\nCheers, rich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-11 17:33:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, what is being licensed is not a right to IP, but a right to use the
    font software, so I really don't see how IP is at all relevant. When I license
    Adobe InDesign, I'm not licensing the IP -- that is, I am not purchasing the right
    to reuse of Adobe copyrighted code or patented techniques --, I'm just purchasing
    the right to use the software for the purposes and in the ways permitted by the
    license agreement. Same with fonts.\r\n\r\nThat said, the USCO has explicitly
    recognised that fonts are may be copyrighted as computer programs, and the summary
    judgement in the Adobe vs. SSi case confirmed that this pertains also to the outlines,
    so even if this were an IP case I don't think there would be any question of the
    eligibility of the fonts to protection.\r\n\r\n<em>Do they do Columbus Day in
    Canada.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. It's our Thanksgiving weekend up here, an end-of-harvest
    festival.\r\n\r\nBy the way, it's Frank Martinez, not Herb Martinez."
  created: '2009-10-11 19:12:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n(Thanks for the correction. Not Herb, Frank. I've got
    Herb on the brain. A Freudian thing, no doubt. But Herb always <em>was</em> quite
    frank!)\r\n\r\nAnyway, Frank Martinez (who I met at Typecon) has a website where
    there is interesting stuff germaine to this topic to be read:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.martinezgroup.com/litigation.html\">The
    Martinez Group - Litigation</a>\r\nI've also been reading some Atypi presentations
    and all kinds of stuff with an eye to the possible legal consequences of using
    for-pay web fonts.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm not understanding you on this at all.\r\nHow
    can there be a license to use something unless there is, presumably, a right on
    the part of the licensor that remains attached even after the item is transferred?\r\nYou
    say I'm buying the \"right to use\" the thing. OK, understood.\r\nBut if the thing
    is not protected in the first place, there is no \"right to use\" to be obtained
    in the first place. The idea of a license, a \"right to use\" is predicated on
    copyright.\r\nSorry, sometimes I'm thick, but what you seem to be saying is that
    anything can be licensed, and the license can be enforced, even if the licensor
    has no claim on the item after transfer.\r\nTo use the analogy one more time:
    you seem to be saying that if I buy an egg from you under the terms of a contract
    that says I'm only to eat it hard-boiled but, dammit, you've got pictures of me
    eating it scrambled, that you can claim damages because it's going to be harder
    to license more eggs to other clients in the future. (As the Font Bureau's complaint
    puts it. But no eggs, of course.)\r\nThe only problem with this is that you never
    had any rights to the egg in the first place because it was just an egg, so that
    leaves you with only breach of contract and what damages could you legitimately
    claim?\r\nI don't call up Herman Miller to license a chair. I don't go to the
    local Honda dealership to license a car.\r\nAfter I've purchased those things
    I can do what I want with them, period. I own them lock, stock, and barrel.\r\nLicensing
    a \"right to use\" the font software is dependent upon the font software being
    protected IP. Otherwise, there may be a nonsensical contract, but there is no
    license.\r\nAre you saying otherwise?\r\n\r\n(I'll pass on the significance or
    lack thereof, of Adobe v Southern Software other than to say I've read the decision.)\r\n\r\nEnd
    of harvest, eh? I love it.\r\n\r\nRegards, Rich"
  created: '2009-10-12 05:22:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The idea of a license, a \u201Cright to use\u201D is predicated on copyright.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that B is predicated on A does not mean that A is at issue whenever B is
    at issue. Licensing law is fundamentally contract law; specific types of contracts
    may be predicated on intellectual property law, but that does not imply that lawsuits
    regarding such contracts are intellectual property suits. I don't believe that
    the copyrightability of fonts as computer programs under US law is at issue in
    this licensing case.\r\n\r\nBut I'm not a lawyer. And you're not a lawyer. If
    you'll excuse me, I have to go stare down a herd of buffalo now. It's a Canadian
    Thanksgiving tradition."
  created: '2009-10-12 06:25:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">(As the Font Bureau\u2019s complaint puts it. But no eggs, of course.)\r\n\r\nClearly,
    a minor blow to your analogy. But do go on. ;)\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t call up Herman
    Miller to license a chair. I don\u2019t go to the local Honda dealership to license
    a car.\r\n\r\nGenerally, one buys or leases a product, and licenses a design.
    Herb Miller and Honda both do all three.\r\n \r\n John, how does one get a stuffed
    buffalo into an oven, much less out? It expands doesn't it? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-12 12:40:05'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: ">I don\u2019t call up Herman Miller to license a chair. I don\u2019t go to
    the local Honda dealership to license a car.\r\n\r\nTake a look at [[http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.html#106|Title
    17 \xA7 106]]. The idea is that as the owner of a copyright, one has exclusive
    rights to do a few things with that copyrighted work. Generally one can sell or
    conditionally license these rights. Similarly, if you don\u2019t own a copyright
    to a particular work, and you wish to do any of the things to which the owner
    of the copyright holds exclusive rights (again, generally) you have to negotiate
    with the owner to do those things. \r\n\r\nSeriously. Bravo, Font Bureau. \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-12 14:18:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Rich, my impression is that lawyers can and on occasion will use any argument
    to win their case, whether it is legitimate or not, consistent or not. Thus NBC
    could try to challenge whether Font Bureau owns any rights to the fonts, and hence
    whether their EULA is a legally binding contract. \r\n\r\nBut then NBC would in
    effect be challenging whether any software EULA for fonts is valid. In light of
    SSI vs Abobe, I doubt they would be successful, and hence probably NBC won't try
    this strategy. I am just guessing, as I have no training in law.\r\n\r\nBecause
    SSI vs Adobe established protection of fonts as software, and undoubtedly software
    was licensed from Font Bureau and used by NBC, I don't think that an argument
    about the originality of these particular fonts as designs would be relevant,
    as they would pass the test of SSI for original software. Again, lawyers can try
    any argument, but I don't see how it would work before a judge. \r\n\r\nAlso re-litigating
    SSI vs Adobe would likely be an expensive matter for NBC to do, which they would
    want to do only if they were concerned to establish a principle important to their
    business. And I don't see how this is. To put this into perspective, according
    to one figure I just found it costs 3 million dollars to produce one hour of a
    sitcom. In contrast, paying for new fonts each year will be a tiny fraction of
    that.  \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-12 15:02:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n\r\nI have no illusions. A quick settlement is what is
    being sought and what will, probably, be gotten.\r\nProlonged litigation is fabulously
    expensive.\r\nOn the Martinez group's web site (link to the litigation page is
    in a previous comment), it's made clear that settlement is the aim.\r\n\r\nDisclaimer:
    I am not a lawyer. The following is nothing more than opinion and reportage of
    the legal precautions and calculations that take place in the world.\r\n\r\nTo
    continue, Bill:\r\nWhere NBC screwed up is in buying the font online using a NBC
    credit card or somesuch. It proves access and gives the complaint legs. It's much
    more difficult to prove access without it. It's the last time NBC will be doing
    that, I assume.\r\nAnd it would not surprise me if this ran counter to existing
    policies within NBC.\r\nBusinesses with deep-pockets are constantly sued. Some
    suits are legit, some concocted. But it's routine to create barriers to potential
    liability such as using shell entities to conduct business, etc., to provide a
    shield.\r\nFor example, if the design department were to be spun off as a single-client
    entity - a business of it's own - it would be much more difficult to drag NBC
    into the fray.\r\nAnd the bells that went off at Font Bureau when NBC purchased
    those fonts would not have rung, most probably.\r\nMy feeling is that from the
    day of that purchase onward they were being stalked for any sign that the basic
    license had been exceeded. I do not know if Font Bureau's claim is true or not.
    But the whole idea of a purchase triggering a surveillance of sorts, I find a
    little creepy. I mean, do <em>you</em> think someone at FB just woke up one day
    and said, \"Hey! There's our fonts on Jay Leno!\"\r\nInstead of NBC it could be
    me or you or anybody, really.\r\nI recently bought a particular weight of Kent
    Lew's font \"Whitman\" from the Font Bureau. And it gives me pause.\r\n(Well,
    more than pause, but another time and place, not here.)\r\nAnyway, perhaps because
    so much of NBC's core business is copyright related, it simply isn't (or wasn't)
    worth the confusion for them to take these precautions, who knows.\r\n\r\nThe
    world we live in. Interesting (and sometimes troubling) times."
  created: '2009-10-12 16:20:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>I mean, do you think someone at FB just woke up one day and said, \u201CHey!
    There\u2019s our fonts on Jay Leno!\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, that's exactly what
    I think happened. Unless (less likely) somebody at NBC tipped off FB.\r\n\r\nThe
    idea that font vendors in general, or FB in particular, routinely \"stalk\" big
    companies who purchase just one license for a font is pretty hilarious, actually.
    They don't have the time to waste. Mind you, I'm also fond of using [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occam's_razor|Occam's
    Razor]] in my inductive thought.\r\n\r\n(Heh. First time I typed that last sentence,
    I wrote \"font\" for \"fond\"....)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-12 16:49:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Stalking. \r\n\r\nOk, I'm an interested party because Font Bureau will soon
    be releasing my Williams Caslon retail. But really Rich, if somebody rips me off
    and I complain to the law, I'm the bad guy, I'm a stalker? That's upside-down
    ethics, and suicide for foundries and type designers. \r\n\r\nAre you advocating
    that foundries never monitor the very public use of their fonts? When a marketing
    firm (IIRC) ripped off FF Dax and it ended up on every UPS truck in the world
    without being paid for, FontFont should have ignored it? Or when P22's Cezanne
    wasn't licensed properly by Starbucks, and it was all over their walls around
    the country, they should have just shut up?\r\n\r\nIf big companies whose fonts
    appear all over the country are not one in a while threatend with a law suit for
    very publicly  violating a font EULA, such as in this case or the Dax or Cezanne
    case (both settled out of court IIRC), then EULAs will become meaningless.\r\n\r\nUnless
    you are planning to put it on a hundred computers without paying the license fees,
    why would this complaint cause you worry about your ownership of a one-computer
    license for Kent Lew's fabulous Whitman? "
  created: '2009-10-12 16:58:32'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "OT:\r\n\"Ok, I\u2019m an interested party because Font Bureau will soon be
    releasing my Williams Caslon retail.\"\r\n\r\nREALLY! When?"
  created: '2009-10-12 17:46:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My feeling is that from the day of that purchase onward they were being
    stalked for any sign that the basic license had been exceeded.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you have the first clue how much time type design takes? If you think that anybody
    at Font Bureau has time to stalk customers for license violations you\u2019re
    both paranoid and not applying critical thinking skills."
  created: '2009-10-12 17:46:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, I''m not sure exactly, but "soon". I''ll post some samples this week. '
  created: '2009-10-12 17:53:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>My feeling is that from the day of that purchase onward they were
    being stalked for any sign that the basic license had been exceeded.</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    \u2018feeling\u2019 is erroneous.\r\n\r\nWe're talking about very high profile
    font use: fonts used in a television season branding campaign by a major media
    corporation. When fonts are used in such a high profile way, I think it is sensible
    for foundries to check their license sales logs. The fonts are contributing massive
    added value to the media corporations campaign, and should be properly licensed
    and paid for. Further, as explained during the web fonts discussions, much of
    the value in fonts, for the professional designers who are the principle market
    for font licensing, resides in real, partial or perceived exclusivity. If major
    TV network \u2018A\u2019 are using specific fonts in their season branding, other
    networks will want to avoid using the same fonts so that their own branding is
    not diluted. So high profile font use by one major customer diminishes the likelihood
    of licensing by other customers in the same business or marketplace. Hence the
    basis of potential damages. If NBC had properly licensed the fonts to use them
    in the ways in which they intended to use them, they would have reasonably compensated
    Font Bureau for the likely loss of other sales."
  created: '2009-10-12 20:03:37'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "Forgive me if this has been discussed already, as I skipped reading the last
    few posts. As I understand it, the validity of this suit depends on whether or
    not the terms of the EULA were violated by NBC, more specifically that a license
    for the font, legally purchased for a finite number of computers, was installed
    and subsequently used on a number of computers exceeding the terms of the agreement.
    Assuming my facts are straight, could NBC theoretically claim that Font Bureau
    has no way of proving how many computers the font was installed on? For all they
    know, all of the design work in question could have come from the same designer
    on the same machine. Or is there something I\u2019m missing that would refute
    such a claim?"
  created: '2009-10-13 23:00:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''ve seen enough law shows on TV to know that there''s a "discovery" phase
    in such cases, but there needs to be some evidence of wrong-doing to avoid claims
    of a "fishing expedition" '
  created: '2009-10-14 00:33:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am sure that Font Bureau and their very capable legal consultant did not
    just jump in to a suit without something more than a \"Gee, I wonder if\" whim.
    All of us speculators with experience limited to old episodes of Perry Mason,
    myself included, should perhaps just sit back and let the real folks involved
    do their own thing without us mucking up the works.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-14 01:18:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Or is there something I\u2019m missing that would refute such a claim?</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    law degree."
  created: '2009-10-14 03:10:55'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I love how the \u201Cmoderators\u201D\_have allowed this topic to italicize
    itself into oblivion.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-14 20:24:18'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Shall we try turning italics off?\r\n</i>\r\n</cite>\r\n</em>\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-14 20:24:41'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: No italics on my machine, Joe, except for the places where they should be
    ... in a few short quotes. And definitely nothing that deserves another dig at
    the moderators. Save that for the thread where it should be.
  created: '2009-10-14 21:11:05'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "<cite>A law degree.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, did not know I needed a degree to
    speculate about a legal matter. I guess the next time I have to change my oil
    I'll become a certified mechanic. And I definitely can't cook dinner until I finish
    my masters at the Culinary Institute of America.\r\n\r\nSeriously though, I think
    my point was valid, though maybe unsubstantiated due to a lack of information."
  created: '2009-10-15 01:01:34'
- author:
    name: stormbind
    picture: 118121
  body: It's perfectly OK. There are judges who narrowly passed or resat their degrees,
    and probably know less than you do. I fear this thread's speculations may be over-analysed
    as the judge is likely to encourage settlement as a means to avoid publicly exposing
    their own inability.
  created: '2009-10-15 02:31:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The snarkiness was uncalled for. But....\r\n\r\n<em>As I understand it, the
    validity of this suit depends on whether or not the terms of the EULA were violated
    by NBC....</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that depends on what you mean. Did you read the lawsuit
    filing? I mean, yes, the six causes of action are all predicated on the idea that
    the EULA NBC had (a single-user license for just one of the three families in
    question, namely Interstate) did not permit NBC to do what they did. But if NBC
    had never had a license at all, five of the six causes of action would all still
    be there; only \"breach of contract\" would go away.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-15 06:25:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I guess the next time I have to change my oil I\u2019ll become a certified
    mechanic. \r\n\r\nCome now, you can change <em>your own</em> oil.  What I guess
    is odd, is if you wish to change the oil of a car you've never heard running,
    or owned, or checked the dip stick of. Weirder, would be that no one asked for
    you to do so, or comment on the need to do so, but you hunted them down anyway
    to tell them they needed their oil changed, when they did not need their oil changed.
    \r\n\r\nFrom further up the thread, who believes anyone, anywhere, can be charged
    with the <em>rather serious crime</em> of stalking, as a result of watching network
    TV? Just curious.\r\n\r\nNone of this, however, has anything whatsoever to do
    with this case, as you might suspect. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-15 13:40:22'
- author:
    name: Sharon Van Lieu
    picture: 109849
  body: "Good luck with your lawsuit, Font Bureau.\r\n\r\nSharon"
  created: '2009-10-15 18:09:26'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Italics have been activated since Tom\u2019s quotation of the words <strong>There\u2019s
    our fonts on Jay Leno!\u201D</strong> and are still there now. There are no I
    or CITE elements in the source code, and every EM appears to be matched with a
    /EM. Nonetheless, something is wrong and it is the job of the people who call
    themselves \u201Cmoderators\u201D to fix it.\r\n\r\nThere will indeed be \u201Canother
    dig\u201D at the so-called moderators if they make \u201Canother\u201D mistake.
    It\u2019s called accountability. </i></em></cite>\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-16 21:41:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not seeing what you are seeing, Joe. There are no running italics which
    are not close tagged. Perhaps it is something peculiar to your browser?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-16 21:46:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The problem occurs in IE8, which makes me think other browsers are automatically
    closing the italic tags outside of each DIV element. '
  created: '2009-10-16 21:49:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Joe, I'm not seeing it either, not now not earlier. \r\n\r\nedit: Thanks,
    Si, but Joe says all the \"em\" tags are closed. \r\n\r\nCould there be a problem
    with Cached material?"
  created: '2009-10-16 22:01:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I don't see the italics either. But the &lt;cite&gt; tag on Thomas's quote
    (\". . . Jay Leno\") is not closed. It ends with an opening tag.\r\n\r\nI guess
    it depends upon the browser. Joe is undoubtedly using something that is strictly
    compliant, and that's why he sees it, I'm guessing. Whereas most of us use browsers
    that close it out at the &lt;/p&gt; or the &lt;/div&gt;.\r\n\r\nNow that the problem
    has been identified, perhaps an admin can rectify it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 00:10:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Seems fixed now.
  created: '2009-10-17 01:41:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@joe clark\r\nI, too, agree that all things should be done in moderation.\r\n\r\n@john
    hudson\r\nPeople are quoting me lately - with and without attribution. In your
    case it's an \"inside\" thing, \r\nbut compare Typotheque's \"endorsement\" of
    WOFF <a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/news/typotheque_endorses_new_font_format_woff\">here</a>
    and my <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/mozilla-announces-support-for-web-open-font-format-woff-in-firefox-3-6/\">post</a>
    about WOFF from a few days ago.\r\nVery much fair use, and I'm flattered, but
    a citation would have been the right thing, don't you think?\r\nInterestingly,
    to me, the Canadian end-of-harvest roughly co-incides with the Jewish holiday
    of Succot - also an end of harvest shindig. You know, there's a theory that the
    lost tribe of Israel found it's way to Canada and settled in and around Vancouver.
    This would account for the buffalo population running rampant - they're not Kosher.
    Hence the need to learn how to stare them down. This sounds quite plausible to
    me.\r\n\r\n@thomas phinney, william berkson, et al:\r\n\r\nRe, the suit against
    NBC: the one thing I haven't read here so far, is a statement from a representative
    of the Font Bureau denying that my surmise is not, indeed, what happened.\r\nI
    mean, if that's the case, why not?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 16:35:50'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: " > the one thing I haven\u2019t read here so far,is a statement from a representative
    of the Font Bureau denying\r\n\r\nI didn't know that Typophile is the court. "
  created: '2009-10-17 17:32:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a statement from a representative of the Font Bureau\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow
    is a co-owner of Font Bureau. His statement above is:\r\n\r\n\"who believes anyone,
    anywhere, can be charged with the rather serious crime of stalking, as a result
    of watching network TV?\"\r\n\r\nTranslating from the Berlonese as best I can,
    that reads that he or someone else associated with Font Bureau was watching NBC
    and said to themselves: \"WTF? Our fonts are all over the network and they only
    bought one license? We have too look into this.\" I suppose the details are in
    the complaint, which is on line, but I haven't looked at it. \r\n\r\nSince you
    refer to Sukkot, I'd refer you to a great principle in Jewish ethics that I try
    to practice, though I don't always succeed: \"Be judging everyone in a favorable
    light.\" In other words put a construction on their words or actions that assumes
    a good motive, and as a rule act on that assumption. Of course there are exceptions,
    but I think this isn't right forum for a Talmudic discussion :)  "
  created: '2009-10-17 18:48:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david hamuel\r\n>I didn't know that Typophile is the court.\r\n\r\nObjection.
    Move to strike.\r\n\r\n@thomas phinney\r\n\r\nRe FB v NBC - my experience in business,
    outside of IT, is with very small businesses. Sales volumes of anywhere from a
    measly $100,000.00 per annum to say, $15,000,000.00 per.\r\nAnd the one thing
    every one those businesses owners wanted to know in the morning was: who had bought
    what the day before. Later on, when I ran my own company, if I didn't already
    know the who-and-what from having been around and watching, this was my first
    order of business every day, too.\r\nI was, at first, amazed by the up-to-the-minute
    fine detail that guys in charge of fair-sized operations had at their fingertips
    at all times. But they did. I've never met a small business owner - or one of
    the owners, at least - that doesn't carry around this information in their head.\r\nThe
    idea that \"they have better things to do\", is hilarious to me. Better things
    to do than keep track of who is buying their products? Please.\r\nAt Fink's Font
    Bureau, you better believe I would know exactly who bought what font every damned
    day of the week and Saturdays and Sundays, too. And the principals of the Font
    Bureau don't? Pretty please.\r\nAnd if I was them, given the current legal opportunities,
    the minute I saw \"NBC\" on an invoice, I would have tracked them every which
    way from Sunday.\r\nWith more verve than they, probably. But let's be real.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-17 19:23:53'
- author:
    name: Ed_Aranda
    picture: 117416
  body: "To David Berlow and Thomas Phinney,\r\n\r\nThank you for your responses.
    I realize that my opinion on this matter is of no real value, as I am not a lawyer,
    type designer, or associate of either the Font Bureau or NBC. Unfortunately, I
    feel as if you guys had perceived my earlier comment as some sort of attack on
    the validity of this suit. That was in no way my intention, and I apologize if
    it was received as such. In fact, I think fighting back against theft and piracy
    is a necessary and admirable thing to do. We have to be willing to protect how
    we make a living. That said, my initial comment was not meant to poke holes in
    the argument, but to indulge my curiosity about the issue at hand. It was just
    a thought, not a values judgment or accusation."
  created: '2009-10-18 07:01:27'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Every browser is highly compliant now, even IE-greater-than-6. I searched
    through the source for all I, CITE, or EM elements and found none that were unclosed.
    I did <em>not</em> move the whole thing over to BBEdit and do a thorough debug.\r\n\r\nBecause
    <em>moderators</em> are supposed to be on top of that. At least the italics-deniers
    of this thread have been shut up.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-20 21:20:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Joe, I did find an open cite tag and closed it. I believe that was what fixed
    it. And that was a week or so ago.
  created: '2009-10-22 23:07:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Ed>It was just a thought, not a values judgment or accusation.\r\n\r\nAccepted,
    thanks. You are being curious about details I'm prevented from discussing. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 13:44:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I just wanted to say that I hope the Font Bureau collects handsomely from
    NBC.\r\nThey did a piece on 60 minutes about unlicensed DVD creation and copying
    that was so simple-minded and biased that they deserve to pay for whatever reason.\r\nKudos!!!\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-03 01:40:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Isn't <em>60 Minutes</em> on CBS?
  created: '2009-11-03 02:19:59'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Yeah, but you can't let facts get in the way of a good rant.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-11-03 16:32:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: 'Sidestepping the ''<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IANAL">IANAL</a>''
    discussion for a moment: I''m very happy that FB has taken this action, if only
    because I can now point to this lawsuit when trying to nip the whole "just give
    me the fonts" discussion in the bud with employers and clients.'
  created: '2009-11-04 17:34:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: CBS, NBC, what's the diff? Go get 'em! Hoohah!
  created: '2009-11-05 00:52:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The difference between NBC and CBS is about a billion viewers. NBC is the
    worst network in U.S. market share and CBS is the best.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-05 01:11:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I just ran accross a link at Ascender's blog to this post:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.graphicartsonline.com/blog/Premedia_Trends_Sponsored_By_Epson/23764-Jaywalking_on_fonts.php\">Jaywalking
    On Fonts</a>\r\n\r\nBy some guy named Brian Lawler who I hope, for everyone's
    sake, is never allowed to sit on a jury.\r\nThe article begins:\r\n\"It would
    have been a lot easier if NBC had bought the licenses for the fonts!\"\r\nJust
    a teeny bit biased are we, Mr. Lawler? (Well, it is Graphic Arts Online, after
    all. Gotta tell 'em what they want to hear.)\r\nOf course the rest of the article
    just assumes that NBC is an infringer. Did this guy Lawler even read the complaint?
    Is he aware that all the suit \"proves\" is that NBC bought three fonts from the
    Font Bureau and the rest is allegation?\r\nAnd that that's all you pretty much
    need to initiate a suit and try to sock it to a deep-pocketed defendant?\r\nDoes
    he question the reasoning behind NBC owing anything more, even if found liable,
    than the difference between the license they purchased and the license Font Bureau
    says they should have purchased? Was any such attempt made prior to litigation?
    That would have been a more civil and productive approach, don't you think, Brian?\r\nAnd
    how about some giving some thought to the possibility of a chill effect leading
    to less purchases from any and all \"retail\" font vendors. Ever occur to you?
    Naw, couldn't happen.\r\nCongrats to Brian Lawler and Graphic Arts Online for
    a hatchet job well done. And thanks to the Ascender blog for the link."
  created: '2009-11-27 23:14:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "When I heard of this lawsuit, at first I was puzzled. You buy a font for
    one computer. You print something on that computer. Then you make millions of
    copies of what you've printed on an offset press, or take your image with letters
    on it, and put it into an animation... and none of those later actions violate
    the license to the font. You only need a license to the font on the one computer
    and printer combination that converts the text to the graphic image of the letter.\r\n\r\nBut
    it is being alleged by the plaintiff that NBC used those fonts on more than one
    computer. And this is not an unreasonable suspicion if they were used in a wide
    variety of advertising materials that would likely have been prepared by different
    people working in different offices. Plus, lawsuits only require a balance of
    probability, not proof beyond a reasonable doubt."
  created: '2009-11-28 01:16:05'
- author:
    name: processcamera
    picture: 117085
  body: "FWIW, this is not the first time NBC TV has been sued for a design-related
    copyright infringement. Back in the mid 1970s, the network was penalized about
    $850K in cash and equipment after it introduced a new corporate logo that was
    already being used by a group of public TV stations in Nebraska:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBC_logos\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 03:25:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Richard, Brian, not being on a jury, is not required to presume innocence.
    I do agree that his first sentence should have been a 'what if', rather than a
    presumption of guilt. (He does conclude with a 'what if'.) But what exactly is
    mistaken in the rest of the article? I find it hard to believe that Steve Matteson
    did 4000 kerns in a sitting, but aside from that it seems pretty accurate, though
    I admit I didn't read it with great care. \r\n\r\nAs to the \"chilling effect\",
    doesn't this argument apply to all software sales? Will people stop buying software
    if some software manufacturers sue when large public companies violate the EULAs
    by distributing all over their company a piece of software licensed for only one
    computer? \r\n\r\nBy the way do you have no concern for the huge losses due to
    use of unlicensed fonts? Should foundries and developers of fonts always just
    shrug and let themselves--ourselves--be robbed? I am not, I should emphasize,
    presuming the outcome of this case. But let us suppose for the moment that Font
    Bureau is completely right, and NBC completely in the wrong. If that were the
    case, do you still think Font Bureau should do nothing? \r\n\r\nquadribloc, I
    believe all software is licensed and charged by the number of computers, and when
    fonts became software, they started charging the same way. It may not make a lot
    of sense otherwise, but surely NBC is aware of the terms of the license. If you
    buy any font over the internet, there is almost always--and certainly at FontBureau.com--a
    choice of how many computers you are licensing the font for, with the price adjusted
    accordingly. This information is not a detail buried in a long EULA, but right
    in the buyer's face as part of the buying process. "
  created: '2009-11-28 05:03:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Richard, I found you attack on Brian's article a lot more offensive than
    the article itself.\r\n\r\nYes, the opening sentence seems to assume guilt. But
    the entire rest of the body of the article is really about the broader issues
    of font piracy and how hard it is to make a living as a type designer. Not much
    to complain about there.\r\n\r\n<cite>Does he question the reasoning behind NBC
    owing anything more, even if found liable, than the difference between the license
    they purchased and the license Font Bureau says they should have purchased?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    should he question it? US law provides that a copyright holder may opt for either
    actual damages *or* statutory damages. So on the copyright claims, if NBC is found
    to have infringed, it is possible Font Bureau could get quite a bit more in damages
    than just the amount NBC failed to pay. Plus, not all of the claims were based
    on copyright, so there are other factors.\r\n\r\nYou're spending a lot of time
    on web fonts and related areas. Try spending a day reading up on copyright law.
    It's fascinating stuff, and not all of it is obvious or self-evident.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-28 09:36:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I find it hard to believe that Steve Matteson did 4000 kerns in a sitting,
    </cite>\r\n\r\nEasy peasy, Bill. \r\n\r\nIf you think that's an outrageous figure,
    you're out of shape and better get back to the kerning gym and put some serious
    time in.\r\n\r\nSpend less time here and more time on the kerning floor."
  created: '2009-11-28 13:36:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For every season, kern, kern, kern . . .\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-28 16:47:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, my Williams Caslon has a total around 16,000 kerning pairs, and 600
    kerning classes. I know that after that experience I''m enormously quicker now
    than at the start, when I was awfully slow. But how fast now I don''t know. Next
    time I''ll check and see. '
  created: '2009-11-28 20:08:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "\"quadribloc, I believe all software is licensed and charged by the number
    of computers, and when fonts became software, they started charging the same way.
    It may not make a lot of sense otherwise, but surely NBC is aware of the terms
    of the license. If you buy any font over the internet, there is almost always\u2014and
    certainly at FontBureau.com\u2014a choice of how many computers you are licensing
    the font for, with the price adjusted accordingly. This information is not a detail
    buried in a long EULA, but right in the buyer\u2019s face as part of the buying
    process.\"\r\n\r\nI didn't think I put anything contradicting that in my post.\r\n\r\nInstead,
    I noted that the widespread use of the font in NBC's promotional materials is
    not necessarily evidence of a single-user EULA being violated.\r\n\r\nIf, on one
    computer, I type the phrase \"The More You Know\", and with my copy of that font
    on the computer, produce an image of those words set in that font - then I need
    to have that font licensed on that computer.\r\n\r\nIf I then take that image,
    the translation from individual letters to the printed page having been performed
    on the first computer, and do coloring, 3D-shading, and rendering into an animation
    of that image on a render farm of a thousand other computers - not <strong>one</strong>
    of those computers needs to have a copy of that font installed on it. None of
    them are doing any typesetting, they're only doing image processing.\r\n\r\nSo
    the test to determine whether the font has been pirated isn't how widespread logos
    using that font are - but how many different texts they contain.\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    it's like saying that since a book set in Caledonia had a print run of 30,000
    copies, the publisher must have had 30,000 Linotype machines with Caledonia matrices.\r\n\r\nIf
    that font is important to NBC's corporate identity, it could be there is only
    one copy of that font in the company, in one computer in a closely guarded room
    - to make sure that unauthorized employees in NBC do not create official-looking
    materials without authorization."
  created: '2009-11-29 12:10:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Congrats to Brian Lawler and Graphic Arts Online for a hatchet job well
    done. \r\n\r\nChainsaw on. The fact that this is a near-repeat of your Oct 9th
    post lends credence to the gathering view you are not exactly unbiased yourself,
    if indeed you are yourself. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-29 13:21:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it could be there is only one copy of that font in the company, in one computer
    in a closely guarded room - to make sure that unauthorized employees in NBC do
    not create official-looking materials without authorization.\r\n\r\nAnybody can
    already buy these retail fonts--or steal them--and exactly reproduce the look
    of the NBC official materials, so rationale you hypothesize makes no sense. Also,
    if NBC indeed had such a policy and practice, I'm doubting that there would have
    been any law suit, or at very least that it would have been settled or dismissed
    by now.  \r\n\r\nJudging by the conversations on Typophile, the ignoring of EULAs
    is extremely widespread, and some people think type designers and foundries are
    a bunch of clueless whiners for objecting."
  created: '2009-11-29 14:28:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Regarding the feasibility of the "one font license may be all you need" hypothesis--I
    pity the creative team that produces all NBC's promotional material, working on
    a single computer!
  created: '2009-11-29 18:48:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't know how much distinct promotional material NBC has, so my hypothesis
    may well be untenable. Nor do I suggest they should get away with it if they are
    guilty.\r\n\r\nBut this one computer could be just used to set the appropriate
    text into type, while other aspects of the creative design - turning a line of
    text into a colorful logo - take place on other computers.\r\n\r\nSo my point
    is merely that to eliminate possibilities like that, one needs more than \"oh,
    my, they run these logos all the time\". How much typesetting with this font actually
    took place, not how often we see it, is what matters.\r\n\r\nOf course, if we're
    talking about a lot of printed material too, it may also be that printed material
    was done with copies of the font in question at the printing shop... since sending
    the printer a PDF with an embedded font might not be allowed by the font license."
  created: '2009-11-29 19:31:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For what it would have cost them to outfit the entire PR Advertising Branding
    team and have peace of mind, surely must be less than the legal hassle that they
    have now. Come on, corporate America, own up and pay up your fare share of doing
    business!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-29 22:56:52'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "http://www.free-logotypes.com/logotype/NBC.html\r\nhttp://vectorlogo.blogspot.com/2008/11/nbc-logo-eps.html\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-11-30 13:02:05'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'In the criminal justice system, words are represented by two separate yet
    equally important fonts: Friz Quadrata, and a crappy artificially condensed version
    of Friz Quadrata.'
  created: '2009-11-30 18:03:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-30 19:19:49'
- author:
    name: MrElvey
  body: "I was curious and looked up the case.  FYI, as expected, the case settled.
    \ Terms?  Who knows.  \r\n\r\nI freed and posted the court order and docket <a
    href=\"http://www.scribd.com/MrElvey/documents\">here at Scribd</a>."
  created: '2013-06-23 17:15:34'
date: '2009-10-09 00:18:46'
node_type: forum
title: NBC gets served for $2 Million

---
