---
author:
  name: belle
  picture: 116877
body: "Hello everyone Im a graphic design student in need of some support with my
  thesis. I would like to write it on Legibility / Serif vs. Sans Serif/ In information
  design. However I am in need of a question/argument for a proposal and would be
  grateful for any suggestions.\r\n\r\n26/oct/09  I now have a clear understanding
  of readability and how it can inhibit or enhance how we read and have decided to
  focus my new research on the readability of partially sighted people. Do you think
  we have done all we can typographically to enhance readability for partially sighted
  people? Should guidelines be updated/reviewed/changed? Do guidelines differ in different
  parts of the world etc.. Any comments and suggestions are welcome\r\n\r\nThank you\r\nBelle"
comments:
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: I assume you mean Serif vs. Sans Serif?
  created: '2009-10-09 16:34:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">However I am in need of a question to support my findings \r\n\r\n\"What
    kind of fonts are most legible?\""
  created: '2009-10-09 16:58:35'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you for your reply sii, I will be sure to add that to my growing list
    of questions.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-09 17:05:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Shouldn\u2019t you be thinking of your own question before you find anything
    in need of support?"
  created: '2009-10-09 17:22:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '"is it the existence or non-existence of serifs that really makes the difference?"'
  created: '2009-10-09 17:43:39'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you for your comment James.  I suppose I am working backwards but I
    know what area I would like to write my thesis on, the problem is supporting it
    with a good argument.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-09 17:58:17'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you for your input Aluminum, It certainly gives me a lot to think about.
    \r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-09 18:00:02'
- author:
    name: stormbind
    picture: 118121
  body: "Have you done a SWOT analysis on the questions?\r\n\r\nJust list the Strengths,
    Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats for each question. Those lists might lead to
    more specific or more unusual questions for a thesis :)"
  created: '2009-10-09 21:43:26'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "\"What is 'good legibility'?\" might start a discussion.\r\n\r\nAs a personal
    preference, monospaced fonts and sans with even vertical stem widths on the screen,
    and in print I rather prefer serifs (and maybe at a <em>slightly</em> larger size
    -- perhaps \"growing over the years\"?)."
  created: '2009-10-10 00:05:00'
- author:
    name: stormbind
    picture: 118121
  body: I suppose you would have to start by defining legibility :)
  created: '2009-10-11 02:11:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: '"You read best what you read most." Zuzana Licko'
  created: '2009-10-11 15:24:35'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thanks for your comment  stormbind thats an interesting approach to take
    and im sure it will help me come up with an unusual question \r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-11 18:03:12'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "thanks for your input Theunis de Jong, I would like my first chapter to discuss
    'What is good legibility' and I like your preference, perhaps I will ask others
    their preferences and compare.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-11 18:08:23'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you Chris, you have inspired me to look at other famous quotes on legibility
    as part of my research. \r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-11 18:13:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Make sure to get the book [[http://www.amazon.com/While-Youre-Reading-Gerard-Unger/dp/0976224518|'While
    You're Reading' by Gerard Unger]]. He describes in a comprehensive fashion how
    the process of reading takes place.
  created: '2009-10-12 15:14:38'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Jelmar thank you so much for the suggestion, Ive just looked it up on amazon
    and its available. I have a list of about 8 books I really want that are out of
    print which is a shame. So any further suggestions on books is much appreciated.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-12 18:40:27'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Well, [[http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/books/978-0-907259-30-5|'The Stroke:
    Theory of Writing]]' by Gerrit Noordzij is an interesting read (although there
    are some here on TP that don't like it). \r\n\r\nWhile it mostly deals with how
    tools affected letterforms historically and how this is still visible in contemporary
    type design (i.e. broad-nib pen, pointed pen, etc.) it also has parts about word-shapes
    and the relation between black and white (or shape and counter-shape; e.g. [[bouma]],
    [[notan]] and [[word shape]]). Which is an important part of how we read (even
    more so than what individual letters look like). This is also something that Unger
    writes about in his book I mentioned earlier. It would probably be an important
    part of your research. "
  created: '2009-10-12 19:05:02'
- author:
    name: trevhutch
  body: "You might want to check out the research done for the ClearviewHwy typeface:
    http://clearviewhwy.com/ResearchAndDesign/\r\n\r\n\"ClearviewHwy was developed
    in a research program to increase the legibility and improve ease of recognition
    of road sign legends while reducing the effects of halation (or overglow) for
    older drivers and drivers with reduced contrast sensitivity when letters are displayed
    on high brightness retroreflective materials.\"\r\n\r\nThe site also has links
    to lots of articles about legibility."
  created: '2009-10-13 09:21:09'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "\r\nFor nearly a century, researchers have been trying to find which fonts
    are most legible but it seems they still haven't found a definitive answer.\r\n\r\nHave
    a look at this discussion: http://typophile.com/node/52737\r\nPelli is one of
    the most renowned legibility researchers \u2013 maybe the study he is talking
    about has been published by now, it would certainly be an interesting read."
  created: '2009-10-13 09:52:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Rudi, W. et al (1993). Performance differences between Times and Helvetica
    in a reading task. <em>Electronic Publishing 6(3)</em> 241\u2013248.\r\n\r\nWorth
    reading, but they failed to counterbalance the order in which participants were
    exposed to the typefaces.\r\n\r\nI'm in the process of reviewing a series of 12
    Tinker papers, one of which is about fonts, and it showed that (surprizingly)
    many different fonts had no significant effect on reading time. I do not believe
    that comprehension was assessed. Also an interesting paper. Well written and an
    easy read. However, there was a failure to counterbalance the passages , fonts
    and orders in which they were received across participants.\r\n\r\nI'd still read
    both."
  created: '2009-10-13 18:54:32'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thanks again Jelmar, I managed to get a copy of \u2019While You\u2019re Reading\u2019
    this morning and it has already helped me get some chapter breakdowns, it seems
    like a really good book so far. Also I found reading patters very interesting
    and would love to tie that subject into my thesis.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-13 20:51:43'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thanks so much for that article Trev, I never imagined that would be a factor
    in road signage, I found it very informing along with some of the other links
    on the page, it has helped me so much and I have now altered my proposal for it
    to focus more on designing for the visually impaired.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-13 20:57:02'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you Tim, I don't think there is a definitive answer to that, but hopefully
    by the end of my thesis in February I will have a better understanding after all
    my research. I ran a search on Pelli and numerous articles came up, thanks again
    for the suggestion.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-13 21:10:30'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you Christopher, I have managed to locate 'Performance differences
    between Times and Helvetica in a reading task' and it is brilliant research in
    relation to my proposal.  \r\nIm not sure of what 'Tinker papers' you have mentioned
    are? But if you send me the link to the article you mentioned I will defiantly
    take a look. Thanks again.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-13 21:22:01'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Sorry Tim I got you confused with something else, I meant to say, I have
    just had a quick glance at the Pelli's discussion, Thanks for the reading suggestion,
    it will certainly be a good idea for me to look at what other researches have
    obtained from researching legibility. Thanks again\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-13 21:42:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I have a list of about 8 books I really want that are out of print which
    is a shame.\r\n\r\nHave you taken the list to your campus library? Those folks
    will probably have agreements with other libraries, and someone will have a copy
    of the books you need."
  created: '2009-10-14 14:43:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Belle: I don''t think you will be able to find them on-line. It''s a series
    from the Journal of Applied Psychology which begins in about 1929. I got them
    through the databases my school has access too. As such, I don''t believe I have
    the right to distribute them. I''ll dig up a specific reference for you though.
    You should be able to take it to a university (with a sciences program) and have
    them perform a document request for you.'
  created: '2009-10-14 16:06:59'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thank you for replying chris, i see what you mean now, I had no idea, well
    if you really suggest them then id be glad to see if I can source them myself,
    we have all kinds of access in my school and it just so happens that my boyfriend
    works in psychology, so ill mention the series to him. \r\n\r\nBelle "
  created: '2009-10-14 21:51:47'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "I never thought of that Don, I have only ever sourced articles/journals from
    different schools, ill be sure to ask my Liberian tomorrow, thank you for the
    suggestion.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-14 21:53:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Allen
  body: "Couple of good threads on here about legibility/readability\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19918
    (mainly about legibility and it's contributing factors)\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/50834
    (focuses initially on aesthetics vs legibility and then goes off on some related
    but very interesting tangents about legibility, readability, testing methods,
    etc.)\r\n\r\nBoth threads have a lot of references to papers on the subject and
    also to additional related threads.\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2009-10-15 17:12:58'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Thanks for the threads Chris, I have found a lot of good arguments on there\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-21 23:07:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>\u201CYou read best what you read most.\u201D Zuzana Licko</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    you're going to quote that, at least quote the whole statement --\r\n\r\n\u2018Typefaces
    are not intrinsically legible. Rather, it is the readers' familiarity with faces
    that accounts for their legibility. Studies have shown that readers read best
    what they read most.'\r\n\r\n-- which gives one rather more into which to sink
    one's critical teeth."
  created: '2009-10-22 02:38:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As Zuzana Licko says, fonts are not intrinsically legible/readable, beyond
    the most basic parameters.\r\nI would differ in my explanation why: it's how typographers
    set fonts that determines the readability of text.\r\nThe idea that scientific
    procedures can determine the legibility/readability of fonts is bunk."
  created: '2009-10-22 03:29:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ belle: Hope your work is going well. I came across that article I was referencing
    in case you haven't come across it yet:\r\n\r\nPatterson, D. G., Tinker, M. A.
    (1932a). Studies of typographical factors influencing speed of reading: X. Style
    of type face. <em>Journal of Applied Psychology, 16(6)</em>. 605\u2013613. \r\n\r\nI
    would encourage you to read the others too. Despite their imperfections, they
    are well worth reading."
  created: '2009-10-22 17:02:22'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> The idea that scientific procedures can determine the legibility/readability
    of fonts is bunk.\r\n\r\nSince science can study anything in the material world
    from how the optics of the eye work to make corrective glasses, to how to simulate
    3D on a 2D screen to create 3D movies, I don\u2019t know how you can make this
    claim. Perhaps you also think we haven\u2019t made it to the moon? There is nothing
    magic or supernatural about legibility/readability, so of course we can measure
    it.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know what studies Licko was citing, but I do know that
    Sofie Beier at the Royal College of Art has been doing research on the familiarity
    of fonts and intends to talk about it at next year\u2019s ATypI conference in
    Dublin.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-22 17:21:31'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "Chris thats great thank you so much, my thesis is going great, I really appreciate
    the article \r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-26 21:36:01'
- author:
    name: belle
    picture: 116877
  body: "John I totally get what your saying and through my research so far I have
    realized that legibility has nothing to do with readability. My whole topic has
    been chopped and changed, now that I have a better understanding of readability.
    Im so glad I chose this topic now because it will benefit me in so many ways.\r\n\r\nBelle"
  created: '2009-10-26 21:41:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Well, when it's done, let us know. :)
  created: '2009-11-25 17:17:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know how you can make this claim. Perhaps you also think
    we haven\u2019t made it to the moon?</em>\r\n\r\nI have argued my position on
    this forum repeatedly, so if you don't know by now, you haven't been paying attention!
    \r\nOnce more: I am not suggesting that science is bunk, merely that your claims
    to be able to determine the readability of fonts is bad science. It is quite possible
    to measure the readability of specific texts in laboratory situations, as you
    do, but to suppose that you are consequently measuring the readability of fonts
    in the wild is a non sequitur.\r\n\r\nAs a measurable quality, readability is
    a property of documents, not fonts.\r\nIt is art directors, graphic designers
    and typographers who determine readability, not scientists.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-11-25 19:33:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "While, in general, it has been claimed that fonts with serifs are more legible
    on paper, I just came across a statement that it's the other way around for fonts
    in small sizes on computer screens, particularly if anti-aliasing is used.\r\n\r\nThe
    same typestyle can be legible or illegible if used well or badly, but a typestyle
    can still have its own intrinsic contribution to readability. Thus, one typeface,
    as opposed to another, might remain readable even in small sizes, even with close
    spacing and no leading, and so on."
  created: '2009-11-25 19:53:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...a typestyle can still have its own intrinsic contribution to readability.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but that can't be measured.\r\nTherefore, one art director may use a text font
    in a magazine and the readability is great, yet someone else may use the same
    font in a different magazine, with almost the exact same specs, and it's no good.\r\n\r\nAn
    inconvenient truth for Kevin."
  created: '2009-11-25 20:31:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Come to think of it, I may not disagree with you about readability. Legibility
    and readability, after all, are two different things.\r\n\r\nA measurement of
    legibility can of course be conducted by scientific means - people will identify
    a letter without context X% of the time if it's in that font, and Y% of the time
    if it's in this other font. (It might be more interesting to compare fonts where
    the x-height rather than the point size is kept the same.)\r\n\r\nBut \"readability\"
    means something much more subjective, although it is often confused with legibility."
  created: '2009-11-25 21:02:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>(It might be more interesting to compare fonts where the x-height rather
    than the point size is kept the same.)</em>\r\n\r\nThat's certainly a more realistic
    way than just going by the manufacturer's nominal sizing. Another is to spec two
    fonts so that they both fit the same amount of copy in a given space, which is
    the method I use when designing news text faces. However, even that involves some
    element of subjectivity in choosing the optimum leading and H&Js for each font.\r\n\r\nType
    size is another inconvenient truth: it's impossible to measure the size of a typeface!"
  created: '2009-11-25 21:16:28'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: ">As a measurable quality, readability is a property of documents, not fonts.\r\n>It
    is art directors, graphic designers and typographers who determine readability,
    not scientists.\r\n\r\nNick, I think this might be the core of why we always disagree.
    My assumption is that readability is a property of visual perception, and that
    readability is about optimizing text for the capabilities of the human eye and
    brain. Everyone\u2019s visual perception is roughly the same: light goes through
    lenses, is focused on the back of the retina, photoreceptors absorb that light,
    ganglion cells look for edge boundaries, and so on. Readable text will allow the
    visual system to recognize letters and words quickly.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think
    art directors, typographers, or scientists determine readability. Art directors
    and typographers can create different designs that may or may not be optimized
    for the human visual system. Scientists can measure the speed of processing a
    design in the human visual system. Creating and measuring aren\u2019t in opposition
    to each other; they both should be part of the design process.\r\n\r\n> An inconvenient
    truth for Kevin.\r\n\r\nYes, there is no single measure for type size, and different
    layout variables may interact (e.g. leading and line length). It\u2019s not actually
    a problem. It just means that design is complex.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 20:37:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Creating and measuring aren\u2019t in opposition to each other; they
    both should be part of the design process.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat part did measuring
    play in the design process of the ClearType fonts?"
  created: '2009-11-28 21:59:40'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> What part did measuring play in the design process of the ClearType fonts?\r\n\r\nNone.
    I didn\u2019t conduct any studies on the ClearType font collection until after
    they were completed. We are working on a new font now where conducting legibility
    research is part of the design process. After a version of the font is created,
    measuring is done to see which letters are processed quickly and which are processed
    more slowly. The results are then used to create a new version of the font. I
    look forward to talking about this in detail after the font is published.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 15:24:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Glad to see you walking the talk!\r\nWho is the publisher and designer?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 18:42:21'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: I look forward to talking about this in detail after the font is published.
  created: '2009-11-29 19:26:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Pardon me for prying--I don't generally consider the designer to be a detail.
  created: '2009-11-29 19:54:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "that wasn't \"prying\", nick, it was an innocent question,\r\nso you are
    \"pardoned.\"\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  love your new avatar!  makes you
    look very civil!\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 21:53:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks--the photo was taken by Marc Eckardt at TypoBerlin earlier this year.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 22:33:50'
date: '2009-10-09 16:02:35'
title: Serif vs. Sans Serif

---
