---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: 'If Typophile could use some extra volunteers to help delete the spam and links
  to warez sites I''m sure there are several trustworthy folks who could help. '
comments:
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "Yes, that would be a relieve \u2026"
  created: '2009-10-13 16:05:39'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Can I put up a vote for Joe C.? He seems to be inordinately quick to point
    out spam!\r\n\r\nDo all current mods live in the same time zone? That might explain
    some messages stay up for hours, where others are deleted immediately.\r\n\r\nAnother
    point is someone might want to ask Punchcut for a 'kill immediately' button, as
    I understand removing a message can be quite involving."
  created: '2009-10-13 16:41:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would hope we could find someone in Eastern Europe at least since it looks
    like so many moderators are in California.\r\n\r\nI see a fare number of spammers
    on the east coast of the USA and would be willing to help if the procedure is
    not too geeky to boot them.  I like the idea of a spam zapping button for a select
    group of folks spread across time zones and areas of interest.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-13 17:12:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Spam just popped up as I was posting :-(\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-13 17:15:46'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "Squashed.\r\n\r\nYeah, we're really getting pounded these days. Hard to keep
    up. Thanks for sending us links to the offenders - we address them as soon as
    we can find them!\r\n\r\n//jared\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-13 17:25:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Jared. So do you think the number of moderators is sufficient, or
    that it\u2019s just too hard for you to manage additional moderators? "
  created: '2009-10-13 17:29:26'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "We would love it if anyone who has interest in moderation, or would like
    to make recommendations for mods, to shoot us an email. It is something we are
    discussing and would like to move forward with as soon as possible.\r\n\r\ntypophile
    [at] punchcut [dot] com"
  created: '2009-10-13 17:51:16'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "This site does not need \u201Cmoderators.\u201D\_It needs supervision by
    adults who know how Web fora work. I\u2019ve never heard of Zara Evens in my life,
    and you haven\u2019t either. Revoking the login rights of everybody who claims
    to be a \u201Cmoderator\u201D and starting from scratch would be a viable option.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    this veers into \u201CYou people suck\u201D territory <em>really</em> fast. I
    have a list of a dozen steps Spamophile could take to bring itself into the late
    20th century, but any suggestion that anything whatsoever is wrong with this place
    is greeted with nervous reactions from Europeans with poor English skills who
    somehow think what\u2019s being proposed is elimination of the site. What should
    be eliminated are its unskilled operators.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-13 19:29:15'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: classy.
  created: '2009-10-13 20:25:07'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "\u201CBrutally honest,\u201D you mean, Fredo.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-13 20:35:10'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>.. nervous reactions from Europeans with poor English skills ..</cite>\r\n\r\nPriceless!
    Honestly, you get <em>my</em> vote. Just promise you will use your powers for
    good, and not to kill off any thread you think is off-topic, boring, too complicated,
    or personally offensive in any way."
  created: '2009-10-13 20:38:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>This site does not need \u201Cmoderators.\u201D It needs supervision
    by adults who know how Web fora work</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd know all about their denizens:
    spammers, flamers and trolls."
  created: '2009-10-13 21:10:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">\u201CBrutally honest,\u201D you mean, Fredo.\r\n\r\nNo, I have heard of
    Zara, and met her. Your comments about Zara are pointlessly rude, and reflect
    badly on you, not her. \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-13 21:36:13'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Thanks Joe, awfully kind of you.
  created: '2009-10-13 23:04:14'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Joe, try to get more fiber in your diet. It'll help.
  created: '2009-10-13 23:09:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I think \"moderator\" is (has always been) the wrong term. I don't think
    Typophile was ever intended to be moderated, in the typical sense. The label is
    unfortunately misleading.\r\n\r\nThere are administrators with additional permissions
    who, for the most part, engage only in basic clean-up tasks.\r\n\r\nAnd it is
    administered with a fairly light hand. Partly because of the enormity of what
    this site has become, coupled with the paucity of these individuals with limited
    time at their disposal; and partly because of a pretty open, lax philosophy.\r\n\r\nI
    am not a moderator/administrator; these are just my observations from many years
    of membership."
  created: '2009-10-13 23:11:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee, I have met Zara several times myself and find her to be a very nice
    young lady who goes out of her way to be helpful.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-13 23:53:51'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve never heard of Zara Evens in my life, and you haven\u2019t
    either.</em>\r\n\r\nI happen to know her, and I think she's <strong>great</strong>.\r\n\r\n<em>Again,
    this veers into \u201CYou people suck\u201D territory</em> really <em>fast.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    Typophile is so awful, what are <em>you</em> doing around here, Joe? Hmmm?"
  created: '2009-10-14 00:23:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> these are just my observations from many years of membership.\r\n\r\nIn
    general I agree. However, I got online this morning and noticed obvious spam posts
    that were 10 or 11 hours old. Seems as if having a few admins in different time
    zones, plus some night-owls and morning people might help remove these more quickly.
    \ I kind of view the spam posts as like graffiti \u2013unless they are erased
    quickly they just encourage more.  \r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 00:30:14'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: http://typophile.com/moderators
  created: '2009-10-14 01:14:17'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'Is this bot or human spam? What about captcha? Or better yet: a type ID captcha!'
  created: '2009-10-14 06:13:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Seems as if having a few admins in different time zones, plus some
    night-owls and morning people might help remove these more quickly.</cite> \r\n\r\nI
    agree completely, Si. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-14 13:49:29'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I have noticed an increase in the spam here, but I'm seeing it elsewhere
    too. I suspect there's a fresh batch of spambots or a new spamming enterprise
    somewhere in the world that's provided this fresh wave of garbage. Fortunately,
    it's as recognizable as the previous waves. This batch seems to be built for making
    new accounts and then using the phantom accounts to post garbage. \r\n\r\nThere
    are only 3 volunteer moderators in the list Joe P. points to, that are not in
    the Pacific time zone. I know Eben is traveling right now. "
  created: '2009-10-14 17:15:47'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Joe, your attitude against Zara, who I met before and is a great and helpful
    person, hides your intentions about the spam issue. Now your comment looks more
    like spam. Sorry for my english.
  created: '2009-10-14 20:06:38'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I have no \u201Cattitude against Zara,\u201D\_nor did I say anything remotely
    pejorative \u2013\_other than to suggest she, like the other \u201Cmoderators,\u201D\_is
    functionally invisible.\r\n\r\nQuick: From memory, name three Typophile \u201Cmoderators.\u201D
    (You can include Zara, a gimme.) Can\u2019t do it?\r\n\r\nCuriously, I can name
    all the MetaFilter admins from memory (mathowie, jessamyn, pb, cortex, vacapinta).
    Why is that? Well, I\u2019ve been there ten years, which explains a lot. But what
    explains even more is the fact that they are real people who actively participate
    in MetaFilter. Plus there\u2019s an entire MetaTalk section dedicated solely to
    discussions <em>of</em> MetaFilter. That is only one of the innovations Typophile
    should immediately steal, assuming its \u201Cmoderators,\u201C and you people,
    stop acting all defensive. This site <em>has problems</em> that <em>need to be
    fixed</em>.\r\n\r\n> If Typophile is so awful, what are you doing around here,
    Joe? Hmmm?\r\n\r\nIt isn\u2019t \u201Cso awful\u201D; it\u2019s just badly run.\r\n\r\n\u2014
    \ \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-14 20:28:49'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "BlueStreak wrote, apropos of nothing: \u201CJoe, try to get more fiber in
    your diet. It\u2019ll help.\u201D\r\n\r\nLecturing a vegan about diet is like
    lecturing somebody who\u2019s been online 19 years about how a Web forum should
    operate. But! BlueStreak! You hit a twofer!\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-14 20:31:12'
- author:
    name: Rob Mientjes
    picture: 111251
  body: "A thing that is inevitable on the Web, I think, is that clear honesty and
    simplicity comes across as rude and angry, thanks to a total lack of intonation
    and familiarity with the person who says it and his or her standard vocabulary,
    and c. and c. So Joe may sound like a curmudgeon, and he may well be, but if you
    read it simply as clearly spoken criticism of a system ill-run, it is just a criticism.
    And you can do something with criticism, including learning from it, ignoring
    it and smearing your excrement all over it. I think we all know what the wisest
    way is.\r\n\r\n\r\nP.S. Quick test: who of you think I'm angry? Who of you think
    I'm being clear? No smiley faces. They bring down the narrative like termites
    in moldy birch."
  created: '2009-10-14 20:44:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Quick: From memory, name three Typophile \u201Cmoderators.\u201D (You can
    include Zara, a gimme.) Can\u2019t do it?\r\n\r\nI can do it, and I've met all
    of them, fine people every one, and passionate about type. What makes you think
    that regulars here are as unfamiliar as you with the moderators? How about acknowledging
    that you have been wrong about this? \r\n\r\nBy the way, both Dan and Paul started
    out as amateur Typophilers, and now are in the type industry, which I think is
    a testimony to how helpful Typophile is.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you'd climb down from
    your high horse, you'd see that Joe Pemberton put a link above to all of the moderators,
    so your challenge isn't exactly hard to meet.\r\n\r\nYou could put all of your
    criticisms of this site, and preferably specific suggestions for improvement as
    well, without using insulting language. That kind of thing I and I'm sure others
    would welcome. \r\n\r\nAs it is, the tone of your comments is as welcome as a
    skunk at a picnic. "
  created: '2009-10-14 21:04:32'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Well Joe, I can't name the moderators, and I think that is a good thing.
    When moderators stand out in a group, it generally means they are doing a good
    job, working quietly in the background, and not considering themselves the star
    of the show.\r\n\r\nI think that the group is well moderated, and once the new
    spam wave subsides, all will be well again.\r\n\r\nI know of other groups (Adobe
    forums comes to mind) where there are significant rebellions against heavy handed
    moderators. We don't need that here."
  created: '2009-10-14 21:09:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "To respond to Simon's original question: yes, Typophile could use additional
    moderators.\r\n\r\nWe tend to use the title \"moderator\" to mean someone who
    intervenes only when things get out of hand, and by that I mean name calling,
    spam, and intellectual property disputes that are actual disputes (and not trolling).
    Beyond that, the moderators have a very hands-off approach. Or, at least that's
    their charter, with success more frequent than not.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-15 00:14:14'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "Randy's simple suggestion to use Captcha verification for accounts/posts
    kinda got lost in the argument.\r\n\r\nSo why no Captcha?"
  created: '2009-10-15 02:58:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>So why no Captcha?</cite>\r\n\r\nMore of a pain in the butt than spam,
    if you ask me. \r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-10-15 03:14:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Regarding spam, bots, &c. it has been my experience that a quick message to
    [[http://typophile.com/user/108/contact|Tiffany]] or [[http://typophile.com/user/111/contact|Zara]]
    shuts it down pretty quickly.
  created: '2009-10-15 18:58:56'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "I'm not on Typophile eight hours a day or anything, but I do check\r\nit
    out somewhat frequently. I'm rarely bothered by SPAM here.\r\n\r\nSo here's an
    \"atta boy\" (or girl) for everyone running, moderating, \r\nor in some other
    similar way contributing to typophile.\r\n\r\njarrod"
  created: '2009-10-16 15:51:54'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Joe, I don\u2019t think my comment was apropos of nothing. You first popped
    on my radar by sniping at Armin Vit on Speak Up. From my point of view your method
    of operation is equivalent to showing up at parties and instead of thanking the
    host you bitch because there is no ice. "
  created: '2009-10-16 16:01:15'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I had a lot of issues with Armin Vit and had, and have, every right to articulate
    them. I assume, (Never Swearing a) BlueStreak, you read <a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2009/06/27/notmen/\"
    title=\"\u2018Women of Design\u2019\">my review</a> of his book?\r\n\r\n<em>Nobody
    gets a pass.</em> You seem to believe your disapproval of my tone somehow undoes
    my right to articulate dissent. \r\n\r\nAnyway, nothing epitomizes the difference
    between carefully-curated Web fora and this one more than <a href=\"http://metatalk.metafilter.com/18315/Jam-a-bastard-in-it-you-crap#693066\"
    title=\"Comment from Cortex\">the following remark</a> from one of MetaFilter\u2019s
    admins, Cortex, who just spent the month travelling the U.S. meeting MeFites:
    \u201CWe're users; we love this place, and we've been here forever, and being
    able to participate in the conversations here in a casual userland sense is one
    of the not just perks but outright requirements of our employment here, I think
    it's safe to say.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat exact involvement do the \u201Cmoderators\u201D\_of
    this site have in its discussions? Anybody got a microscope? Because it sure isn\u2019t
    visible to the naked eye.\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-10-17 20:33:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Joe, are you sure you want anyone to read your review of Armin Vit's book?
    Or anything on your blog, for that matter? The fonts you specify indicate otherwise.\r\n\r\n\"Freight
    Serif\",Utopia,Archer,Cambria,\"Bitstream Charter\",\"Lucida Fax\",\"Palatino
    Linotype\",\"Hoefler Text\",Baskerville,Georgia,\"Trebuchet MS\",\"Bitstream Vera
    Serif\",\"Lucida Sans\",serif\r\n\r\nArcher, Baskerville, and especially Hoefler
    Text (the family I see when I load your site) are not suitable for long reading
    onscreen.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry to distract from the subject at hand but Joe doesn't
    have comments on his blog so I thought I'd just say what a lot of people are surely
    thinking when they follow his link.\r\n\r\nYes, let's hear from the Euro folks
    who are interested in joining the moderation team!"
  created: '2009-10-18 10:04:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe's review of Armin's book is one of the funniest things I've read in a
    long time.\r\n\r\n<em>I have my own additional bugbears, like the phrase \u2018divide
    my time\u2019. You can divide cookie dough or an apartment or Serbia, or cookie
    dough in a Serbian apartment, but \u2018time\u2019 you cannot \u2018divide\u2019.</em>\r\n\r\nSplendid
    stuff!"
  created: '2009-10-18 11:35:03'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I take it you're seeing Cambria, John.
  created: '2009-10-19 09:13:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I would be more impressed with Joe's review if it weren't over 2500
    words dripping with contempt, and one phrase conceding that the graphic design
    of the book is good. I thought you told me that it is also important in Catholic
    ethics to be charitable in interpreting the efforts of others? I know from the
    design of the TypeCon materials that Vit and his wife are very accomplished designers,
    and I find it hard to believe that there is not more to appreciate in this book.
    \r\n\r\nAbraham Lincoln said \"If you look for the bad in people expecting to
    find it, you surely will.\" Because Joe is very knowledgeable, I want to learn
    from him, as from others here on Typophile. But his tone of contempt is so off-putting
    that it makes it hard to do so."
  created: '2009-10-19 14:41:34'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "Joe said, \u201CAnybody got a microscope?\u201D\r\n\r\nI hadn\u2019t read
    your review of the Under Consideration book, or the book for that matter. I must
    say that your review was thorough and interesting. I guess that you tend to put
    things under a microscope and your form of criticism is to pick the subject apart
    on every level looking toward perfection. We live in a Wabi-Sabi world though.
    The imperfections are what makes things interesting. I think most of your criticisms
    there were trivial and the things you pointed out weren\u2019t exceptionally detrimental
    to the overall success of the project. \r\n\r\nBut back to the criticism that
    is the subject of this thread...\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a consensus that there
    needs to be more moderators in various time zones to eliminate spam. I\u2019m
    sure Punchcut is welcoming to all qualified volunteers. You seem to feel though
    that there needs to be more moderators to direct the discussion \u2014 at least
    if I understand you correctly. From what I\u2019ve seen the nature of this particular
    message board is that the users, who are all registered and a great community,
    do a fantastic job of moderating the discussions without the need of designated
    leaders. Although we still haven\u2019t managed to keep Bowerbird from using those
    damned crazy and distracting line breaks.\r\n\r\nI have seen the moderators working
    at the tasks they are needed to cover. Every time I see a pirate site linked,
    the link is killed by my next visit. And maybe I don't come with enough frequency,
    but I hardly ever see spam. While they may not be fulfilling the role that you
    expect, I think they fulfill the role that works for the majority of the visitors.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    conclude my discussion on this thread by saying that we all play a part. After
    this exchange with you I have a better appreciation of your role. Although I do
    have to agree with what William Berkson said at the end of his comment, I concede
    that you are who you are and just being you. Maybe you are getting plenty of fiber,
    but there still seems to be a problem with anal retention. I can learn to dig
    it though (not literally of course). ;)"
  created: '2009-10-19 16:00:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: For the record, the creator of a thread has the ability delete it, thus granting
    everyone some sort of "moderator ability."
  created: '2009-10-19 17:35:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I said I found Joe's review very funny. I enjoyed the writing. I've
    no idea if it is a fair or accurate review of the book in question. If I were
    interested in graphic design, I would go look at the book and form my own opinions.
    I have no comment on the book, because I have not seen it; but the review made
    me laugh, especially the errata section.\r\n\r\nI would say that it is important
    to be charitable in the interpretation of the <em>intentions</em> of others when
    those intentions are unknown or unclear; i.e., as you pointed out in the thread
    re. the NBC lawsuit, not to presume evil motive. Actions and things resulting
    from actions can be judged on their merits or faults, independent of intention,
    which is the nature of criticism. So Joe finds the book contemptible, and you
    find his review to be objectionable, and these are both instances of criticism.
    Criticism is messy, of course, because humans invest themselves in the things
    that they make, and we seldom actually discount intentions. Do we risk being uncharitable
    to Joe in ascribing lack of charity to his review."
  created: '2009-10-19 21:01:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I don't think I am being uncharitable to Joe because regularly his
    posts on Typophile, including in this thread, are dripping with contempt, as is
    the review. \r\n\r\nInsulting people in public, such as Joe does above, is considered
    in rabbinic ethics a serious sin, known as 'halbanat panim', literally \"causing
    a person to blanch.\" And also there is a commandment to rebuke and not participate
    in your neighbor's sin (Lev. 19:17), which is why I have called Joe on it. \r\n\r\nYou
    write as if Joe isn't ascribing bad motives to Vit and his wife, but that's exactly
    what the extensive first part of his review does. He says of the book \"Its purpose
    is clear even if the authors are evasive about it.\" I haven't read the book and
    don't know the authors' actual views, but from his just quoted statement neither
    does Joe--and he imputes to them views that he dislikes, and roundly condemns
    them. Jewish ethics--and as I understand from you Catholic ethics as well--would
    require Joe to at least suspend judgment about their motives.  \r\n\r\nJoe is
    very knowledgeable and at times amusing, but it doesn't excuse such disrespect
    and rudeness.\r\n\r\nJust to take one example, he above is sarcastic about non-English
    speakers on Typophile, and takes Vit, whose first language is not English, to
    task for English mistakes. Personally I am very grateful for the contribution
    to Typophile of those whose second or third language is English, and also to Vit
    for his contributions to American design. We English speakers are very lucky that
    English has become the international language, and I appreciate the time others
    have put in to learn English so well. \r\n\r\nIf anyone should be taken to task
    it should be the publishers who didn't pay for proper editing, particularly to
    help an author who is not a native speaker. "
  created: '2009-10-19 22:28:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bill, I don't disagree with you at all. I said I found the review very funny,
    not that my amusement excuses anything.
  created: '2009-10-20 01:42:50'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I don't mind the moderation here at all. Babysitting isn't required. Just
    a bit of tending here and there. It's a small community and likely to stay that
    way. It's mostly civil. Very civil in fact, compared to some others I've seen
    and been member of. There is nobody here yelling or swearing at anyone, and it
    tends to be self regulating enough not require continuous monitoring by moderators.
    \r\n\r\nSpam? It comes and goes. It's obvious went you see it and easy to ignore
    in small doses, and the spam here comes in small doses I believe. The complaining
    about spam takes up much more space than the spam. \r\n\r\noh, and <cite>... but
    \u2018time\u2019 you cannot \u2018divide\u2019.</cite> \r\n\r\nGive me half a
    minute, and I'll tell you how it's done. :o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2009-10-20 04:51:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "quarter note, half note, dotted quarter, why do musicians keep dividing time
    :-)\r\n\r\n\\ChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-20 05:25:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Moderating Typophile? Where is the fun in that? When I first joined, I thought
    that Typophile was a blood sport.\r\nJ a m e s was attacking everyone willy nilly,
    someone else was writing at length about font forgeries and how typefaces cannot
    be copyrighted, and nobody seemed to mind. I wonder whether the petty crankiness
    of this forum is not one of its attractions."
  created: '2009-10-20 15:45:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson re Joe C:\r\n>Joe is very knowledgeable and at times amusing,
    but it doesn\u2019t excuse such disrespect and rudeness.\r\n\r\nJoe sometimes
    comes off like a jerk, but don't let that fool you, he really is a jerk. He should
    be sent back to his father and brothers who are waiting for him with open arms
    in the penitentiary.\r\nI say we give him ten years in Leavenworth or eleven years
    in Twelveworth. (Or maybe five and ten in Woolworth!)\r\n\r\nAnyway, Joe isn't
    a person, exactly. He's an experience.\r\n\r\n[Can anybody name the movie?]"
  created: '2009-10-21 06:10:55'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Blaa blaa blaa. Apart from Joe's way of saying things (which constitutes
    96% of this thread), he made a point and nobody is really trying to find a solution.
    What a pity.\r\n\r\nI vote for Captcha.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-10-21 08:52:47'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "My opinion does not matter, but I see all this stemming from permitting anonymous
    posts. A possible solution: Allow anonymity only in Type ID board. No more requests
    for ID elsewhere, no more anonymous trolls elsewhere.\r\n\r\nAnonymous emails
    are spam, and are treated with contempt by everyone. Why do we have anonymous
    postings? To allow whistleblowers to reveal some type conspiracy? Or to dob in
    someone for bad kerning? Anonymity is only useful for law enforcement or media,
    to gain information not available any other way. In a forum like this it only
    encourages spammers and trolls."
  created: '2009-10-21 10:30:22'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "good point.\r\n\r\ndr"
  created: '2009-10-21 11:28:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'It is quite true that I have not ben able to sweep through the threads carefully
    for the last year, and my value as a moderator as been correspondingly less. I
    will likely improve in the next year because my year at Reading MATD has come
    to a close. But given the scale of new threads at typophile and the other demands
    on time the best resource moderators have is readers pointing out what they think
    is a problem. So please do! '
  created: '2009-10-21 11:45:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "\"A Night at the Opera\"? (Not the famous Queen album -- the movie Richard
    asked!)\r\n\r\n[Ed.] Let me change that to \"Duck Soup\"!"
  created: '2009-10-21 13:54:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Where is Norbert when you need him :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-21 16:38:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paragraph, I think you already have to register to post, but of course spammers
    can register with fake names. Perhaps having the system where a person registering
    has to get an e-mail with an activation link, such as many sites do, would help.
    \r\n\r\nBut honestly, I don't find spam much of a problem here. Flamers and trolls
    are another issue :) "
  created: '2009-10-21 16:42:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I have deleted a surprising (to me at least) amount of spam from "people"
    that registered. My speculation is that these are meant not to be read but to
    survive as links to be counted by google. The text tends to sound almost plausible
    for a non native speaker to have posted but is still essentially gibberish. '
  created: '2009-10-21 18:11:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What I usually see is that Spammers choose old threads (a year has gone by
    without a post) that have had many hits to dump their spam. Partly, it is the
    Google thing but partly it is that it will pop up in everybody who posted to that
    threads \"recent threads\" list and get looked at.  The downside is that if I
    see it, I immediately email the \"feedback\" link with the SOBs name and thread
    he posted to. Jared and Joe's hitmen and women usually off the SOB in short order
    after that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-10-21 19:10:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[<em>Can anybody name the movie?</em>]\r\n\r\nDuck Soup!"
  created: '2009-10-21 19:11:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks Rich. Next time in event of a flamer, I gotta search the Groucho quotes,
    not the Talmud!
  created: '2009-10-21 21:07:11'
date: '2009-10-13 15:51:47'
title: Could Typophile use additional moderators?

---
