---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "http://www.netzpolitik.org/2009/die-zukunft-des-buches-ist-digital/\r\n\r\nWhat
  do you think \u2013 is the future of the book digital? Will \"e-book-displayers\"
  replace printed books?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I should have used the board search instead of starting a new topic.
  created: '2009-10-18 04:35:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Yep. That horse is quite dead around here.
  created: '2009-10-18 04:56:41'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '...the future of the digital booked?'
  created: '2009-10-18 05:46:58'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno, did you type that post on your selectric?\r\n\r\nhere's the newest
    scoop:\r\n>   http://www.collegehumor.com/video:1910868\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-19 23:36:16'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "For those who missed it, more Kindle humor from the AIGA Make|Think National
    Design Conference last week...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJwyBmu-O-o|http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJwyBmu-O-o]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-19 23:46:35'
- author:
    name: DanielNisbet
  body: I have a tough time seeing eBooks completely take over- but then again, there's
    something about the printed page that seems to hold my attention better. Might
    not be the same for everyone though...
  created: '2009-10-20 05:49:03'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: BlueStreak, that was hilarious! Thanks. :-)
  created: '2009-10-20 06:05:57'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thanks, BlueStreak! Good pro-book-agitprop. The latest argument, that I had
    to dry up, is the pollution through the production of paper. But if all people
    destroy the kindle shit \u2026"
  created: '2009-10-20 09:17:36'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>The latest argument, that I had to dry up, is the pollution through the
    production of paper.</em>\r\n\r\nArno, tell 'em that discarded computers also
    create pollution. And the ones that are plugged in consume electricity, and if
    the electricity comes from consuming carbon, it's contributing to global warming.
    :-)"
  created: '2009-10-20 15:57:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Yep. That horse is quite dead around here.\r\n\r\nJames, I know what you
    mean, but I disagree. This is one of those meta-topics that seems to move under
    our feet.\r\nEven basic words like \"book\" that we use to discuss the issue are
    undergoing subtle changes in meaning.\r\nThat's my take, anyway. Better to let
    it start fresh yet again, than append to the existing.\r\nAnd then we can reference
    the latest amusing videos!\r\nMaybe we can start giving \"digital book\" threads
    sequential numbers. Or just schedule one for every month. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-20 16:59:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>...if the electricity comes from consuming carbon...</em>\r\n\r\ncarbon
    = coal (my bad)"
  created: '2009-10-20 17:21:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "With regard to the pollution through the production of the paper used for
    books, my arguments are these:\r\n\r\n1. The production of paper needs much energy
    and water, but most of the paper is used for magazines, newspapers, toilet products
    and in offices. That\u2019s just an assumption. It should be clarified.\r\n\r\n2.
    The production of computer controlled devices also needs energy. Additionally
    it needs unrenewable resources. The mining of some of these resources needs water.
    Additionally the regions, in which the biggest deposits exist, are politically
    instabil. I am talking about the raw material <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coltan\">Coltan</a>
    and oil (for the plastics).\r\n\r\n3. Paper can be easier recycled than computer
    devices.\r\n\r\n4. a) You never buy a computer device for the eternity. (This
    also means, that it is harder for the user of ebook devices to get a personal
    relationship to the ebook device.)\r\n\r\nb) For optimal legibility of different
    kinds/genres of literature you probably need more than one device. (Think about
    the meaning of the page margins in a book.)\r\n\r\nHow often do pure ebook readers
    have to buy new devices?\r\n\r\n5. Electrosmog because of wireless connections
    (download of ebooks).\r\n\r\n6. The operation of an ebook device needs energy.\r\n\r\n7.
    The servers, on which the ebooks are stored, need energy.\r\n\r\n-------------------\r\n\r\nAnd
    I have another good argument for printed books:\r\n\r\nYou can comment the text
    in a much more immediate way. A graphic tablet or a keyboard is less immediate
    than a pencil."
  created: '2009-10-20 22:03:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Is the future of the book digital?\r\n>...the future of the digital booked?\r\nI
    think we book digitally now, like hotels and car rentals, and sometime in the
    future more people will recognize how many books are already digital. I agree
    that it's moving from over our feet, I don't envisage the digital coffee table
    book anymore, more people can see a screen. There is also the misapprehension,
    I think, that the digital book is mostly text, perhaps rightly brought on by the
    ample evidence of specialized devices for presentation of mostly digital books
    of text. This too, @fontface will change I think, right now they are all in Times
    on the web. Has anyone here read a whole book on the web?\r\n\r\nArno>And I have
    another good argument for printed books:\r\n\r\nBut your first, environmentally-based
    argument is flawed, in my opinion, in a basic way. Nearly all printed books start
    as digital books. The number of readers who buy books and do not already own and
    plan to continue the use of their computer, is tiny and shrinking. So, if nearly
    all books start digital on computers, and some of them go directly to people's
    existing general-purpose computers, or even to specialized computers for reading,
    removing the printing and recycling process, is not bad, is it?\r\n\r\nThis is
    not to say all printed books are bad, but if the reader wants them digitally,
    and they are not available except in print, isn't that bad?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-20 22:37:21'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "David\r\n\r\nIn my opinion it is easier to find non environment arguments
    against the ebook devices. Ebook devices are not as legible as printed books and
    I doubt, that they will be in the coming 20 years. I can imagine, that the problem
    of the low resolution will be solved, but I doubt, that the problem with the size
    will be solved then. The margins of the pages have a function. If they are too
    big, your impression of the contrast between text and background is different,
    at least I assume, that it is.\r\n\r\n\"The number of readers who buy books and
    do not already own and plan to continue the use of their computer, is tiny and
    shrinking.\"\r\n\r\nBut actually you need a special device because of the backlight
    (?) of TFT and the extremely low resolution. And a computer is not as easy to
    handle and hold as a printed book in the same size.\r\n\r\n\u201EThis is not to
    say all printed books are bad, but if the reader wants them digitally, and they
    are not available except in print, isn\u2019t that bad?\u201C\r\n\r\nThe reader?
    I don\u2019t know, which kinds of paper you can buy in the office shops of Massachusettes,
    but in Germany you can decide between high bright and low quality recycling paper
    only. If you want to have a natural paper, you have a problem. Why? As more white
    as better it is. That\u2019s the way, the reader buys his paper on one of his
    non eco days. On the other days he buys the recycling paper. (You can order natural
    colored paper online. There is one semi good German online paper shop.) I am talking
    about the paper, that people buy for their laser and inkjet prints. Most readers
    think, that the content of a text is complicated, if they don\u2019t understand
    it. They never think, that the typography or the printing quality are the reason.
    So it is not enough to trust in the market. Do you mean, that those things are
    the best, which are sold the most? No. That\u2019s not the way, in which capitalism
    works, at least not the capitalism of these days."
  created: '2009-10-21 00:30:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Has anyone here read a whole book on the web?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, most
    recently just a couple of weeks ago. Funny thing is, I even own a printed copy
    of the same book, but it hasn't been unpacked yet.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mit.edu/hacker/hacker.html\r\nAdmittedly
    it's a short book, maybe 100 pages in printed form? I also wouldn't have read
    the whole thing online if it had been in Arial or Times.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-10-22 06:12:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Arno Enslin\r\n\r\n<em>\"Ebook devices are not as legible as printed books
    and I doubt, that they will be in the coming 20 years.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWow, Arno.
    What have you been looking at?\r\nI own an iRex 1000 E-Reader and use it all the
    time.\r\nUsually the typesetting stinks because the books/files/e-books or whatever
    you want to call 'em are machine-generated from raw ascii to pdf but the glyphs
    are as clear and sharp as print.\r\nSorry, you're just plain wrong on this. And
    in 2010, many new devices with improved technology and lower price points are
    coming.\r\nPerhaps you're basing this statement on something you've seen in the
    past. But it's long-gone, I assure you.\r\nThose babies are gonna fly off the
    shelves. Better book one early.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-23 02:12:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Richard\r\n\r\n\"[\u2026] but the glyphs are as clear and sharp as print.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    this would be true, the very most stuff, posted on Typophile, would be waffle.
    The iRex 1000 has a relative resolution of 160 dpi. I have not hold the iRex 1000
    in my hands, but I doubt, that it can preserve the fineness of the very most typefaces,
    which are designed for body text (sizes), with such a low resolution; doesn\u2019t
    it need typefaces, which are optimized for it? Can all existing body text typefaces
    be optimized for it? And if, are those optimized typefaces still the same typefaces
    with regard to the design, or are they new typefaces? And if they are new with
    regard to the design, why do some type designers invest years in the fineness
    of the curves of their typefaces? Do they invest the time for improving the beauty
    or for improving the legibility. Or are beauty and functionality ever the two
    sides of the same medaillion?\r\n\r\nI am not an enemy of technology. Ebook devices
    have big advantages in comparison to books. There may be people like you, for
    that ebook devices already are useful. But for the case, that they replace books,
    before they are on the same level of legibility and feeling, and I am forced to
    buy one, because books don\u2019t exist anymore, I solemny promise, that I will
    not pay for ebooks, as long as I can get illegal copies. And for sure I don\u2019t
    let force me from the industry, to make me to a test object. If an ebook device
    is good as a hammer and if it does not cost much more than a hammer, then I will
    buy one and then I am willing to pay a price, that is comparable to the price
    of a printed book.\r\n\r\nI hope, that the European Union will not forbid books.
    We are already loosing the classic light bulbs; no, not for the environment, but
    for the wallets of the lightning industry. And the whole world wants to build
    new nuclear power stations for the environment. CO2 beats radioactive contamination.
    It is absurd. Maybe the strategy of our \"democracies\" is, to make books too
    unlegible and too expensive for the \"electors\". And even if one device would
    cost 100 Euro, it is much more than the price for the taste of reading in form
    of a paperback. So the poor ones can be kept stupid. And our governments can continue
    to castrate democracy in the fight against the enemies of democracy.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I don\u2019t make books, but I just would miss them. And how much are 20 years?"
  created: '2009-10-23 08:53:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I will not pay for ebooks, as long as I can get illegal copies.\r\n\r\nSo,
    if a book is only available in electronic form, you feel the right to steal it
    is yours?\r\n\r\n>And our governments can continue to castrate democracy in the
    fight against the enemies of democracy.\r\n\r\nWhich is more democratic? electronic
    media, or print media?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 13:00:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "David\r\n\r\n<cite>Which is more democratic? electronic media, or print media?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    is more democratic? A piece of soap or a bone? Things cannot be democratic, but
    humans. People can be better controlled in the computer world. And people better
    can attract attention in the computer world. All in all I doubt, that computers
    have made the world better. But it is not the fault of the computers, although
    I don\u2019t want to imagine, what dictators like Hitler, Stalin or Mao had made
    with them. Maybe I should.\r\n\r\n<cite>So, if a book is only available in electronic
    form, you feel the right to steal it is yours?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s dependent
    on the reason for the non-existence of a printed version and it is dependent on,
    who the publisher is. But aren\u2019t there enough EULA discussions on this forum?
    I am relatively bored of them. And what do you expect from a socialist? What\u2019s
    with lending libraries for example? But a discussion about licenses would probably
    end in quarrel. I only say, what I would do, if the book industry is unable, to
    learn from the mistakes of the music industry: I would not pity them.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-23 16:18:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Arno, are you taking the piss? Or are you just typing out these long rants
    because the sound of your tinfoil panties crunching makes it hard to walk around
    in public without the agents of democracy\u2019s enemies locating you?"
  created: '2009-10-23 16:42:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "James\r\n\r\nI am stopping myself from saying something about the political
    system of the USA, except from this: For sure it is not just a chance, that you
    are New Yorker, isn\u2019t it. My pity with your country is very limited. My pity
    is with all the victims of the political system of your country and (or inclusively)
    with the victims from 09/11. A discussion about this would end in quarrel. This
    is NOT my intention. I really wanted to know, what you think about ebooks and
    ebook devices. I don\u2019t take the system of my own country for a democracy.
    You don\u2019t want to know, what I think about the USA."
  created: '2009-10-23 18:47:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Things cannot be democratic, but humans. \r\n\r\nRight. Maybe think about
    the question, and not preconceived answers, and you can cross the political gulf
    and talk socially about technical issues without beckoning dictators to a little
    book talk.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-10-23 20:04:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "David\r\n\r\nDo you think, that you can get the advantages of electronic
    media without the disadvantages? We are more and more controlled with the help
    of computers. That\u2019s the price, that we pay for the comfort. The development
    of new computer chips could not be payed without our money. You have asked. The
    electronic medium <em>ebook</em> is a waste-product with regard to the chips,
    but probably most personal computers are not used for anything else than the organization
    of our leisure time. So at least my answer touches your question. Additionally
    my impression is, that members of typohile.com don\u2019t let miss any opportunity
    to talk about piracy and license agreements. And that\u2019s often ridiculous
    in my opinion. More to the point \u2013 ridiculous is, that you want to know,
    if I am willing to steal anything under certain circumstances, and then you believe
    to know, what you have to think about me."
  created: '2009-10-24 12:29:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n<em>\"Do you think, that you can get the advantages of electronic
    media without the disadvantages?\"</em>\r\n\r\nSince, indeed, we have veered away
    from a little book talk, I like this sentence. And I'm going to steal it and keep
    it for later which I'm sure Arno won't mind.\r\n\r\n[Re: the text on an iRex being
    as clear and as sharp as print]\r\n<em>\"If this would be true, the very most
    stuff, posted on Typophile, would be waffle.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHow so? Does the function
    of type change because it's on a screen?\r\nBesides, I love waffles. My wife and
    I have them for dinner quite frequently. [No joke.]\r\nEggos - Family Style. You
    should try it, just pop them in the toaster and butter 'em up.\r\nDelicious. And
    a nice carbohydrate charge-up after a busy day."
  created: '2009-10-24 14:27:50'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Richard\r\n\r\nEven if the sentence would be original and worth to be quoted
    with naming the author, there is a difference between stealing ideas and stealing
    media.\r\n\r\nWith regard to the <em>waffles</em> I prefer to put baked hearts
    of finches onto them. The quality of my English is as low as the quality of your
    arguments, but I am grateful for corrections.\r\n\r\n\"How so? Does the function
    of type change because it\u2019s on a screen?\"\r\n\r\nNaturally not. <em>Most
    of</em> was exaggerated. But I was regarding to the details of the letters in
    body text, at least that was my intention. I know, that they should not be as
    contrasted and detailed as letters in display sizes, but even the optical styles
    of <em>Arno Pro</em> probably variate in stroke width in a way, that can\u2019t
    be displayed with 160 dpi. And how good a typeface works with regard to the legibility,
    is also dependent from the surface of the paper. So what do you mean with \"sharp
    and crisp\"? My TFT also is sharp and crisp. It even would be sharp and crisp,
    if it would display 2 pixel per 20 inches only.\r\n\r\nToday I bought essays from
    Tschichold and Gerard Unger\u2019s \"While you are reading\" (the German edition).
    Except from the fact, that there were fat black finger prints from the bookbinder
    on the first page (transparent and slick paper; I was able to rub them out; wow,
    now I know another advantage of ebooks!) of \"While you are reading\", I am very
    happy, that they are no ebooks. (Gerard, for the case, that you are reading this
    stupid thread, these transparent pages with the big [parts] of letters, they don\u2019t
    seem to make the book better. Maybe I discover their sense later. Or shall they
    increase the aesthetic value of the book? However, if it would be an ebook, I
    would remove them, although I probably wouldn\u2019t be allowed, because ebooks
    can be licensed only, as far as I am informed. Wow, another advantage of ebooks!
    But I like, what I have read up till now.)"
  created: '2009-10-24 17:35:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">People can be better controlled in the computer world. \r\nHow do you get
    people inside computers. ;)\r\n\r\n>We are more and more controlled with the help
    of computers. \r\nYou seem insistent on this dark and groping thought. \r\n\r\nI
    personally, think paper controlled us worse. \r\n\r\nAnyway, you love books, I
    can see. I love old books. But where, Arno, in the disposability-of-print-spectrum
    do you draw the line?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-25 16:46:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Richard: <em>the glyphs are as clear and sharp as print.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    sharp is that? What kind of print process? What kind of paper?"
  created: '2009-10-25 19:52:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "there are more horses now than there were\r\nback when we used them for transportation.\r\n(or
    so i have heard.)\r\n\r\nlikewise, thanks largely to print-on-demand,\r\npaper-books
    will survive and thrive even when\r\ne-books are the primary method of distribution.\r\n\r\nwant
    an e-book printed out?  fine.  just do it.\r\n(and choose the font you want, and
    the size,\r\nand the margins, and the text-colors, and\r\nthe leading, and a slew
    of other parameters.)\r\n\r\nso no one will have to give up their paper-books.\r\n\r\nat
    least not until the great tree-disease epidemic\r\nof 2033, when most of the trees
    on earth will be\r\nwiped out, causing the cost of paper to skyrocket.\r\n\r\nof
    course, most people then will miss toilet paper\r\nfar more than they miss paper-books.
    \ i sure will.\r\n\r\nthere will also be that thing about trees converting\r\ncarbon
    dioxide into oxygen, causing problems too.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-25 21:23:57'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "One thing I\u2019ve noticed that gets left out of the equation when comparing
    the sustainability of digital communication to print is transportation. With electronic
    media we just have to push a few electrons around. With printed media you have
    to transport raw materials to a mill, then from the mill to the printing plant
    (which also needs ink transported). Then the finished printed material is shipped
    to a distribution point before being sent to stores and/or readers. If that material
    is to be recycled then it is shipped back to a recycling center and the whole
    transport cycle is done over.\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a lot of in-between steps versus
    skipping all that raw materials transport and just taking the same electronic
    communication and piping it directly to the reader using electrons. To me that
    seems like an exponentially more efficient way to communicate. We all know that
    the current ebook media is primative, and society in general isn\u2019t used to
    reading on them. But kids learning to read today are more accustomed to reading
    electronic media and as they grow up the media is going to get far better than
    we can imagine. \r\n\r\nI thought Pong was the end-all, be-all, greatest video
    game ever when it first came out. My brain would\u2019ve oozed out of my ears
    if someone had shown me today\u2019s current video gaming systems back then. Printed
    books will survive though. I can still find an old-school pinball machine too."
  created: '2009-10-26 19:37:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nI never have seen a book, that was printed on demand. Somehow
    I have doubts, that such a system can secure high quality, at least not, if you
    order your book online, because you cannot see the paper and the print, before
    you order it. This may be a prejudice. I apprehend a loss of culture \u2013 more
    throw-away products, than we already have.\r\n\r\n(The ebook device industry will
    tell us each year, that there is a brand new device, that is more legible or better
    colored than the predecessor. It\u2019s new, it\u2019s better, it\u2019s nauseous!)\r\n\r\n<cite>want
    an e-book printed out? fine. just do it.\r\n(and choose the font you want, and
    the size,\r\nand the margins, and the text-colors, and\r\nthe leading, and a slew
    of other parameters.)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis requires (conscious) typographical knowledge,
    which most readers miss. Many, if not all of these parameters are dependent from
    each other. If this would be so easy, I wonder, why there are professions like
    typographer. An excessive supply is not necessarily freedom. It can be just the
    other way around.\r\n\r\n<cite>when most of the trees on earth will be wiped out</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    much of the paper, that is produced worldwide, is needed by the book industry?
    I am relatively good in estimating. I really don\u2019t know it. I would say 8%.\r\n\r\nI
    assume, that it will be possible to produce cellulose synthetically in 2033. Probably
    this already is possible today, but not for a rational price. Maybe Bamboo could
    be used. Bamboo grows very fast.\r\n\r\n@David\r\n\r\n<cite>How do you get people
    inside computers. ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, Big Brother is even to fat for the case
    of a supercomputer. Don\u2019t you know, what I mean? I am talking about the state
    and the industry. They know, what you buy when and where. They know, which telephone
    and email contacts you have \u2013 with whom and how often. And more and more
    biometric data are stored. Not to forget all the fu**ing cameras in the cities.
    Do you really think, that all this is for <em>your</em> protection?"
  created: '2009-10-26 19:56:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Printing on demand seems to be laser printing. This confirms me in my doubts.
    I don\u2019t know, if this happens with all laser printers, but the text, printed
    with my laser printer, is sensible with regard to the direction of the light,
    because the toner is <em>on</em>, but not <em>in</em> the paper. More to the point
    \u2013 there is no deep connection between toner and paper. There is a 3D-effect,
    that is more or less visible and that is dependent from the direction of the light.
    The paper doesn\u2019t seem to be saturated with color, because the toner is not
    evenly spread out. Additionally there is a slight uneven brightness, because the
    toner doesn\u2019t seem to melt completely. Although the printer prints very precise,
    there is something missing in comparison with professional offset printing. (Laser
    printing is also offset, isn\u2019t it? But I miss the right term.)"
  created: '2009-10-26 21:54:17'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Pollution is relative. If the book title is set in Comic Sans and the text
    is Papyrus then shipping it in a hybrid vehicle and reading it under candle light
    is very polluting.\r\nBut if the title is embossed in Bodega and the text is nicely
    justified in Minion with appropriate ligatures then you can ship it in a 70s airplane
    and read it under a Tugsten (not to be confused with the H&FJ typeface) and the
    pollution would be minimal. You can even put it in your living room fridge (the
    one you use to store \"paper\" books). Pollution is relative trust me :D\r\n\r\nIs
    Bodega embossed really a great idea?"
  created: '2009-10-27 00:09:49'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bluestreak said:\r\n>   With electronic media we just have to\r\n>   push
    a few electrons around.\r\n\r\nbingo.\r\n\r\nthere aren't enough trees in china
    for them\r\nto print out schoolbooks for all of their kids.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\narno
    said:\r\n>   I never have seen a book, that was printed on demand.\r\n>   Somehow
    I have doubts, that such a system can secure \r\n>   high quality, at least not,
    if you order your book online, \r\n>   because you cannot see the paper and the
    print, \r\n>   before you order it. This may be a prejudice. \r\n>   I apprehend
    a loss of culture \u2013 more throw-away products, \r\n>   than we already have.\r\n\r\nprint-on-demand
    books have the same quality as offset books,\r\nor at least they can...  most
    people cannot distinguish the two...\r\n(_you_ might be able to tell 'em apart;
    but most people couldn't.)\r\n\r\nprint-on-demand books are most definitely not
    \"throw-away\".\r\nat least, not any more so than the books that are mass-printed.\r\n(which
    do not seem to be of a very high quality to me these days,\r\nbut maybe that's
    just old age, remembering \"the good old days\".)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   This requires
    (conscious) typographical knowledge, which\r\n>   most readers miss. Many, if
    not all of these parameters \r\n>   are dependent from each other. \r\n\r\nyou
    know, it's funny, because even though individual people might\r\nmake some choices
    that would be so far from \"optimal\" that they\r\nwould make _you_ -- a professional
    -- _cringe_, the odd thing is\r\nthat these people actually _prefer_ to have it
    the way they order it!\r\n\r\nin other words, if you offered them an \"optimal\"
    version as a choice,\r\nthey'd stick with the one they chose as their own personal
    \"optimal\".\r\n\r\nwhat can i say?  it's obvious they don't appreciate your expertise...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  If this would be so easy, I wonder, why there are professions \r\n>   like
    typographer. \r\n\r\nwell, to tell you the truth, it's not actually \"so easy\",
    not quite yet.\r\n\r\nwe still haven't figured out how to give people precisely
    what they\r\nwant, with an interface that enables them to easily make the choices.\r\nbecause
    this is a new range of possibility.  but we'll solve the issues.\r\n\r\nas to
    why there are typographers, or book designers, or however you\r\nwant to call
    them, it's because -- in the old days -- when we printed\r\nthousands of books
    in a run and everybody had to use the same size,\r\nit made sense to listen to
    professionals who would study up on how to\r\nmake that size be the most pleasant
    for the greatest number of readers.\r\n\r\nbut if we don't have to print in a
    \"one-size-fits-all\" mode, why do it?\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Maybe Bamboo could be used.
    Bamboo grows very fast.\r\n\r\nyeah, except that the bamboo trees will be the
    first to catch the disease.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 00:15:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">They know, what you buy when and where. They know, which telephone and email
    contacts you have \u2013 with whom and how often...\r\n\r\nThey? What They has
    time to pursue the minutia of innocent nobodies? It doesn't sound like \"controlling
    me\" to me. \r\n\r\nI agree, bamboo grows very fast, but perhaps paranoia grows
    faster. \r\n\r\n(Laser printing charges the paper where the image is to be and
    opposite charges the toner to be attracted to the charged area. It is I guess,
    magnetic offset, laser xerography, I can't remember another term either.)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 00:15:50'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Is the future of the book digital?\r\n>...the future of the digital booked?\r\n\r\n>
    I think we book digitally now.... There is also the misapprehension,\r\n>I think,
    that the  digital book is mostly text...\r\n\r\nonly David B got it? :)"
  created: '2009-10-27 04:20:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>the odd thing is that these people actually _prefer_
    to have it the way they order it!\r\n\r\nin other words, if you offered them an
    \u201Coptimal\u201D version as a choice,\r\nthey\u2019d stick with the one they
    chose as their own personal \u201Coptimal\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it is comparable
    with plebiscites. If you take a vote on death penalty, it would get a majority.
    If you would vote on waterboarding for the national security, it would be the
    same. It is a classic dilemma. I am against plebiscites. But the problem is, that
    our leading politicians miss competence, humanity and respect for the constitution
    likewise. I think, that the only solution is, that you give the people access
    to education (knowledge) independent from their origin (and for sure not for the
    price to go to the army). But just that is not wanted by our political leaders,
    because an intelligent plebs would not vote for incompetence, avarice and slavering
    lust for power. Politicians want to have a stupid plebs.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think,
    that the free market can guarantee advanced civilization. On the other side an
    overcontrolled market neither can guarantee advanced civilization. But, and there
    is a difference between artists and politicians: A person, that works for his
    audience, but not for his spiritual welfare, is no artist, but a corrupt politician.
    While the politician should be responsible for his electors, the artist is responsible
    for himself only. That\u2019s the reason, why many artists, that mix they work
    with politics, are dilettantes.\r\n\r\nWell, I don\u2019t think, that book typography
    should be art, but there should be more typographers, that talk with the readers
    about their trade. But my impression is, that they have a tendency to prefer the
    talk with other typographers, because they miss the respect of the reader and
    they avenge with arrogance. In book typography it is part of the profession of
    the typographer, to stay in the background. \r\n\r\n<cite>print-on-demand books
    have the same quality as offset books,\r\nor at least they can... </cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    sounds promising, although offset printing is no guarantee for quality likewise.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 12:51:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "@ Arno Enslin\r\n\r\nWith most people discussing here it is evident what
    they do, what their relation to type is, what their positions are. But I still
    have no idea who Arno Enslin is. Could you please provide some information about
    yourself? What is your profession? Are you a designer or a programmer? How does
    what you do relate to type, typography, books? It would help to get a better understanding
    of your comments in various discussions."
  created: '2009-10-27 13:41:29'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "A thought here: when I worked at the University of Toronto Press, we produced
    the Canadian Math Bulletin. The editor told me that while the journal had several
    thousand subscriptions, generally to university libraries, occasionally papers
    were published where only four mathematicians in the world would have an interest
    in the material (and only a few dozen would even be able to understand it). But
    the publication was the only way to communicate that knowledge about, since you
    couldn't know which four of the thousands would be interested.\r\n\r\nThis was
    pre-Web, and today I assume that those papers are only published electronically,
    since that provides an alternative to the wastefulness of broadcasting something
    to such a narrow audience."
  created: '2009-10-27 17:20:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i must admit that i haven't read all of the above comments in depth, so if
    i am repeating what has been said earlier i apologize. that said, to me the book
    will never be digital. that is to say that the book is a physical object in my
    conception of the world. texts may become digital, but the book is a thing that
    is made (typically) of paper and words printed with ink on that paper. that said,
    perhaps at some point i will consider some type of e-reader device a book, but
    texts (content) are separate from the book (form).
  created: '2009-10-27 19:23:49'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Karsten\r\n\r\nIn <cite>various discussions</cite>? You mean this discussion,
    don\u2019t you? The others were about technical things.\r\n\r\nMy profession is
    not related to design, art, typography or programming. Am I disqualified now or
    was I already before? Did you google for <em>Arno Enslin</em>? I did. And because
    I did not find an Arno Enslin, I decided to be him."
  created: '2009-10-27 19:47:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Feel free to take on any name you want. This does not disqualify per se.
    But as said, lack of context makes it hard to understand your point in a discussion.
    I am referring to this discussion as well as to the technical ones here and on
    the FontLab forum.\r\n\r\nWhy am I not surprised about your reply ..."
  created: '2009-10-27 20:39:02'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>as to why there are typographers, or book designers,
    or however you want to call them, it\u2019s because \u2014 in the old days \u2014
    when we printed thousands of books in a run and everybody had to use the same
    size, it made sense to listen to professionals who would study up on how to make
    that size be the most pleasant for the greatest number of readers.</cite>\r\n\r\nHuman
    individuality does not mean, that two humans belong to different species. I doubt,
    that the human visual perception varies so much. Otherwise we could not interpret
    the face mimic of other persons. It is true, that our faces are different, but
    what would happen, if you (yes, you!) transplant the face of person number X to
    person number Y? How would the face of X harmony with muscles and nerves and tendons
    of Y? (We are not talking about people, that were reared by wolfs.)\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    if we don\u2019t have to print in a \u201Cone-size-fits-all\u201D mode, why do
    it?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s true. But you could say the same about the content.
    I just imagine a reader, that asks for \"The Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle\"
    in the creationists edition. We urgently need truth- and multi-truth-templates
    for books. And naturally we also need \"author templates\". Everything goes. Jesus,
    I already have a problem, when I have to choose a sponge in a drug market.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other side the visual perception requires eyes. And the powers of vision varies.
    There are people, that would profit from a bigger point size or another font."
  created: '2009-10-27 21:14:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Karsten\r\n\r\nFor me the discussion on the FontLab forum was a win of knowledge
    and competence. One of your two points is from me. I wanted to finally clarify
    the naming. It is still not absolutely clear with regard to the consequences of
    certain names in the menus of different programs and platforms, but it was a win.
    I wanted to eliminate all open questions, that one can have with regard to the
    naming. And I am relatively sure, that it also is a win for other people, which
    are interested in font naming. In contradiction to this thread, I cared about
    the order very much. The order was my point. You are German, too. Then you know
    the hard lot of our mentality, don\u2019t you?"
  created: '2009-10-27 21:47:17'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno said:\r\n>   Well, it is comparable with plebiscites. \r\n>   If you
    take a vote on death penalty, \r\n>   it would get a majority. If you would vote
    \r\n>   on waterboarding for the national security, \r\n>   it would be the same.\r\n\r\nit's
    great that you're willing to tackle the deep subjects,\r\narno, but i fear you've
    made this much too complicated.\r\n\r\nprint-on-demand lets each _individual_
    customize the\r\nprint-out to their particular and unique preferences...\r\n\r\nso
    it has nothing do with with a \"plebiscite\"...\r\nor a stalactite or a stalagmite,
    for that matter.\r\n\r\nit's almost certain that one person's preferences would\r\nmake
    another person puke, and vice versa.  and so what?\r\n\r\n\r\n>   On the other
    side the visual perception requires eyes. \r\n>   And the powers of vision varies.
    There are people, \r\n>   that would profit from a bigger point size or another
    font.\r\n\r\nit's interesting that most people understand the idea implicitly\r\nif
    you phrase it in terms of point-size or font-choice, but they\r\naren't as willing
    to let it extend to margins, leading, or whatever.\r\n\r\nfor me, as a programmer
    working to give the choice to people,\r\nwhat i want to create is the ability
    for the person to give my app\r\nthe specs they prefer, and to have the program
    make it look nice,\r\nin much the same way that a professional typographer would
    do\r\nthe same thing were s/he to be given the specs by that individual,\r\n_even_if_
    that professional typographer would be tempted to say,\r\n\"well, i'm not sure
    it's going to look as good as it could otherwise,\r\nbut if this is really the
    way you want it, i'll give it to you like this.\"\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 23:16:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\nRF>the glyphs are as clear and sharp as print.\r\nJH>How
    sharp is that? What kind of print process? What kind of paper?\r\n\r\nI see your
    point. Print technology is too varied to pigeonhole like this. (And, actually,
    it got me thinking about the assumption, by a lot of people I think, that the
    more print-like text appears onscreen, the more it simulates ink-on-paper, the
    more readable it will be, and I think that notion is very incorrect. And it can
    be proven so. But back to your question.)\r\nLet me rephrase. Forget glyphs, clear,
    sharp.\r\nThe text on the iRex appears very much like ink on paper and I can read
    from it with the same ease as I read from a printed book. (But one is not necessarily
    following from the other.)\r\n\r\n@bowerbird\r\n<em>\"we still haven\u2019t figured
    out how to give people precisely what they want, with an interface that enables
    them to easily make the choices. because this is a new range of possibility. but
    we\u2019ll solve the issues.\"</em>\r\nOh yeah? In what century? My understanding,
    gleaned from web stats that measure such things, is that the large majority of
    browser users seldom fiddle with their browser settings and accept the pages they
    are shown \"without question\" presentationally. What proportion of folks do you
    think are feeling the need to be their own typesetters, compositors, and/or graphic
    designers?\r\nNo waffling, now!"
  created: '2009-10-29 00:33:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the glyphs are as clear and sharp as print. \r\n\r\nI see on line that the
    resolution of the Kindle is 167 dpi. The resolution of type printed photo offset
    is about 2500 dpi. I haven't seen the Kindle screen, but I just can't believe
    that it is as sharp. We are talking about an order of magnitude different here,
    which is huge. You'd have to make the \"digital paper\" type 20 x as big and move
    20 x further away to get the same experience.   "
  created: '2009-10-29 01:02:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Richard\r\n\r\nIf the distance between the plastic border and the display
    of your iRex is not too great, you could scan a bit of text, that is displayed
    on your iRex. I would propose relative scan resolutions of 600 and 1200 dpi and
    Palatino in 12 points (on the iRex). Store the scans in uncompressed tiff format
    please.\r\n\r\nI would print the same text in the same font and the same point
    size with my laser printer then and scan the print.\r\n\r\nNaturally this would
    not allow a conclusion about the legibility, but it hopefully shows the differences
    of the variations of the stroke widths.\r\n\r\nWith regard to the sharpness I
    think, that MS ClearType can be interpreted as an unsharper. The text is more
    sharp without ClearType. Without ClearType curves are broken, the pixel are loose
    and the backlight dominates the text. We cannot press legibility in terms like
    contrast and sharpness."
  created: '2009-10-29 10:46:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno, et al:\r\nPublished PPI or DPI measurements are not accurate guides.
    \r\nIn the early nineties I worked with dye-sublimation printers rated at 300dpi
    that produced photographic-quality output. How do you get photographic output
    from 300dpi? Well, there are reasons. And it did.\r\nWhat constitutes the \"dot\"?
    What is it's shape? Are we dealing with color, grayscale, or back and white? All
    will have a great effect. And more.\r\nI have some scans of the output from the
    iRex, I'll review them, re-do them if necessary, and get them up online somewhere,
    or here, and revive this thread.\r\nOne thing I haven't done is look at the e-paper
    screen with a loupe or something, and see exactly what it looks like magnified.
    That will help explain, too.\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-29 13:54:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Rich, photos looking good and type looking good are two different things.
    I think that type is much more demanding on resolution, because it is usually
    read at small size, compared to a photos, which are usually printed at relatively
    big size. A photo can look great at 300 dpi and type look like mud. '
  created: '2009-10-29 15:52:14'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>A photo can look great at 300 dpi and type look like mud.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly
    that. Additionally the distance, that you have to a photo, is often bigger. (Although
    unimportant in this context: The low resolution can be a method of style and you
    cannot compare the resolution of a photo, taken with an analog camera and the
    resolution, taken with a digital camera. The most impressive photos, that I have
    seen, are photos from wars. The grain was often very coarse there. The difference
    between grain and pixel or print dots is the evenness of their spreading. The
    one is \"nature\" [the chemical reaction in the film] and the other is technology
    [a matrix].)"
  created: '2009-10-29 18:37:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   What proportion of folks do you think are \r\n>   feeling
    the need to be their own typesetters, \r\n>   compositors, and/or graphic designers?\r\n>
    \  No waffling, now!\r\n\r\nif you boil the issue down to personalization,\r\na
    headcount of one is enough to be sufficient.\r\n\r\nbut if you want to see the
    tremendous variety\r\nof parameters in which e-books can manifest,\r\ni'd suggest
    checking out the mobilread library.\r\n\r\naside from the obvious factors of font
    and size,\r\nyou will find that people disagree on _margins_.\r\n(to minimize
    page-turns, some people employ\r\nvirtually no margins at all, which is disturbing.)\r\n\r\nit's
    also the case that -- although most people\r\nare quite willing to accept whatever
    is presented\r\nto them in terms of the _leading_ of the type --\r\nif you show
    them that they can actually control it,\r\nand allow 'em to do some experimentation
    with it,\r\nthey'll often tweak leading from its original value.\r\n\r\nin an
    e-book, many people will prefer to change\r\nthe background color too.  some want
    to increase\r\nthe contrast, while others choose to _decrease_ it.\r\n\r\nsometimes
    people like to change the font colors,\r\ntoo, such as using blue type for the
    blockquotes.\r\n\r\nin a print-on-demand situation, it's theoretically\r\npossible
    to change the color of the paper as well,\r\nwhich will interact with your font-color
    choices...\r\n\r\nat each chapter-start, some users like drop-caps\r\nand/or to
    have a few words printed in small-caps,\r\nwhile others choose to eschew such
    adornments...\r\n\r\nsome people insist the first paragraph in a chapter\r\nshould
    not be indented, while others ask \"why not?\"\r\n\r\nin a book which has notes,
    the person can decide\r\nif they prefer those notes printed as footnotes, or\r\ncollected
    in an endnote section, as another variable.\r\n\r\nand if the person wants notes
    printed as footnotes,\r\nthey can choose whether they want them printed\r\nin
    traditionally-smaller type, or at body-text size.\r\n(the thinking being that
    the body-text was chosen\r\nto be as small as could be easily read, to minimize\r\nthe
    number of pages printed, so a smaller font for\r\nthe footnotes would become too
    small to be read.)\r\n\r\ndo you want all your chapters to start on a recto?\r\nor
    will a verso start be just fine?  how much space\r\ndo you want at the top of
    each chapter-start page?\r\n\r\nshould the pagenumber be printed at top or bottom?\r\ndo
    you want running-heads?  what should they be?\r\n\r\nthis is just off the top
    of my head, and i'm getting\r\nhungry, so i'm gonna go make myself a sandwich,\r\nbut
    as you can see, there are a cartload of ways that\r\na person _could_ choose to
    manipulate the print-out.\r\n\r\nnow, you give all of those variables a sensible
    default,\r\nand maybe most people won't choose to change them.\r\n\r\nbut since
    they're paying for the print-out, why not\r\ngive them the means to customize
    it, if they want to?\r\n\r\nplus, if you give 'em a wysiwyg customization interface,\r\nyou
    might just find that they _enjoy_ setting preferences,\r\nand that they end up
    being much happier with the result.\r\n\r\nnothin' wrong with people being happy...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-29 21:27:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nThanks for the rundown bb. Wysiwyg is key, I think. Plus
    a wizard-like approach with some advice and guidance thrown in to the mix, too.
    Most is within reach in the near term, I must admit.\r\nAnd ya didn't waffle.
    Me and the wife, some nights for dinner we have sandwiches, too. Subs. Italian.
    Top quality, too. No fast food franchise crap.\r\n\r\n@william berkson\r\n\r\nI'm
    surprised about the info regarding photographic output.\r\nI have to check that
    out.\r\nBut I still don't think a DPI number is an accurate guide as to what you're
    going to see. I remember reading about that years ago - got to dig it up. It sure
    isn't gibing with what I see on my iRex. I'd be interested in the DPI rating for
    the Kindle.\r\nkevlar could probably speak for an hour on this. But he's in Mexico
    City. Where we should all be and with some salt and lemon, too.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 00:02:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Rich, there's an explanation of ppi vs dpi that you can find in various places
    on the internet, but which I don't understand. I'm assuming on digital paper '167
    dpi' means the same thing as on paper, but I could well be wrong. \r\n\r\nI can
    tell you for sure that I can see the difference in text on paper between my 300
    dpi ink jet, 1200 'true' dpi Xante laser jet, and 2500 photo offset printing.
    And my computer monitor at 96 dpi--hugely different. "
  created: '2009-10-30 00:23:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>in an e-book, many people will prefer to change\r\nthe background color
    too. some want to increase\r\nthe contrast, while others choose to _decrease_
    it.\r\n\r\nsometimes people like to change the font colors,\r\ntoo, such as using
    blue type for the blockquotes.\r\n\r\nin a print-on-demand situation, it\u2019s
    theoretically\r\npossible to change the color of the paper as well,\r\nwhich will
    interact with your font-color choices...\r\n\r\nat each chapter-start, some users
    like drop-caps\r\nand/or to have a few words printed in small-caps,\r\nwhile others
    choose to eschew such adornments...\r\n\r\nsome people insist the first paragraph
    in a chapter\r\nshould not be indented, while others ask \u201Cwhy not?\u201D\r\n\r\nin
    a book which has notes, the person can decide\r\nif they prefer those notes printed
    as footnotes, or\r\ncollected in an endnote section, as another variable.\r\n\r\nand
    if the person wants notes printed as footnotes,\r\nthey can choose whether they
    want them printed\r\nin traditionally-smaller type, or at body-text size.\r\n(the
    thinking being that the body-text was chosen\r\nto be as small as could be easily
    read, to minimize\r\nthe number of pages printed, so a smaller font for\r\nthe
    footnotes would become too small to be read.)\r\n\r\ndo you want all your chapters
    to start on a recto?\r\nor will a verso start be just fine? how much space\r\ndo
    you want at the top of each chapter-start page?\r\n\r\nshould the pagenumber be
    printed at top or bottom?\r\ndo you want running-heads? what should they be?</em>\r\n\r\nDream
    on, buddy. What makes you think that people have the time or inclination to design
    their own books (or shoes? etc.) when they can go and buy one <strong>designed
    by a trained professional</strong>?\r\n\r\nPlus, haven't you heard? Too much choice
    is driving us crazy:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paradox_choice_3430.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-30 06:23:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ricardo, your bait is really wearing thin.\r\nindeed, it's become downright
    pathetic.\r\n\r\nyou'll need to step up your game\r\nif you expect to engage me
    to play.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 08:28:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "oh yeah, i almost forgot!\r\n\r\nhow about straight-quotes versus curly-quotes?\r\ndon't
    you want to choose the ones that you want?\r\n\r\ndoesn't that android commercial,
    with the straight\r\nquotemarks, drive you typophiles absolutely batty?\r\nof
    course it does, you don't even have to answer...\r\n(most infuriating is that
    they mix straight and curly!)\r\n\r\nand of course you want proper em-dashes as
    well...\r\n\r\nand what about indentation of paragraphs?  do you\r\nwant them
    indented, or do you prefer the blank line\r\nseparation of paragraphs that's common
    on the web?\r\n\r\nhow about indentation _plus_ a sliver of space above\r\nthe
    paragraph just to give it a little bit of air there?\r\n\r\nand hey, how about
    justification?  if you cannot get\r\nhyphenation in e-books -- and you usually
    can't --\r\nwould you still want the print output to be justified?\r\nyou're gonna
    get a lot of loose lines if you do that!\r\nmuch better to go with ragged right
    and good color.\r\n\r\nhad enough examples yet?\r\n\r\nbesides, i know you typophiles.
    and i know you can't\r\ntell me that you've never read a book where the font\r\ndrove
    you batty.  indeed, i'm willing to bet that _most_\r\nof you have even _stopped_
    reading some book because\r\nyou were so disgusted and mortified by the font-choice\r\nthat
    it was physically impossible for you to continue it\r\nwithout getting sick to
    your stomach.  i'm willing to bet.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 08:41:17'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>you\u2019ll need to step up your game\r\nif you expect to engage me to
    play.</em>\r\n\r\nIs that funny or what, one short post, and then more verbal
    diarrhoea, as usual."
  created: '2009-10-30 08:53:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Richard\r\n\r\nI am also interested in clarifying the difference between
    dot and pixel. First I assumed, that it is their form and their distance, but
    it seems to regard to the medium, on which it is printed or displayed. The German
    Wikipedia articles about pixel and dot are relatively good. A pixel can be a dot
    and a dot can be a pixel. The difference can be important, if you print a pixel,
    because the pixel can consist of more than one dot then.\r\n\r\nBut here are a
    few observations, that I made: On a 19\"-TFT the pixel are bigger, but their distance
    also seems to be bigger, at least ClearType does not work as good on a 19\"-TFT
    as on a 17\"-TFT, because I can see, that there is a distance between the basic
    black pixel and the added (colored) pixel. Although the relative (!) resolution
    of a 19\"-TFT and a 17\"-<strong>CRT</strong> is the same, text is more legible
    on the 17\"-CRT (if the quality of the CRT is high). The antialiasing of a good
    17\"-CRT beats the ClearType of a 19\"-TFT.\r\n\r\nIn our context the difference
    between dot and pixel would be more important, if the relative resolution of the
    ebook device would be much higher, because actually there simply is no technology,
    that can simulate a relative resolution, that is ten times higher than the real
    (relative) resolution of an electronic device. On the other side antialiasing
    methods are obsolete on devices with a resolution, that is ten times higher than
    the resolution of the actual devices. We are talking about another order of magnitude,
    but not about a few dots more or less. We can send a space probe to Pluto, but
    not to Proxima Centauri.\r\n\r\nI assume, that the legibility of the text, that
    is displayed on the iRex, is much more dependent from the font than the legibility
    of text, that is printed with a high resolution.\r\n\r\n@Ricardo\r\n\r\nYour picture
    illustrates, what I meant with the freedom of choice and the sponges in the drugstore.
    Thanks! The choice can be a loss of time. And a loss of time can be a loss of
    comfort. Because of that I always buy the \"same\" sponge. There may be a sponge,
    that is better than mine, but I can\u2019t find it. (I should write \"faster than
    mine\", because the speed seems to be a criterion of quality for most of the people,
    even if they buy a laser printer, although they print 500 pages per year only
    and although all modern laser printers are fast. And most of them buy the bigger
    TFT, if they have the choice, independent from its relative resolution. It must
    be good, because it is fast. It must be beautiful, because it is big. Those people
    are not interested in the face [and for sure not in the mind], but only in butts
    and tits.) On the other side I partly agree with bowerbird. In theory it does
    not sound bad. In practice it does not work, at least not in Germany. (I already
    wrote about the paper situation in German office stores.)\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 10:44:28'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Your picture illustrates, what I meant with the freedom of choice and
    the sponges in the drugstore. Thanks!</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not just a picture... <a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Paradox-Choice-Why-More-Less/dp/B000HWY5MK/ref=sr_oe_1_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1256908668&sr=1-1&condition=used\">It's
    a book!</a> :-)"
  created: '2009-10-30 13:18:51'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>nothin\u2019 wrong with people being happy...</cite>\r\n\r\nThen
    would you please stop using such short lines? Why not let me decide where to put
    line breaks in your posts? "
  created: '2009-10-30 13:23:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Is that funny or what, one short post, and then more verbal diarrhoea,
    as usual.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah! Not to mention the fact that he calls my reply \"bait\"...
    LOL!"
  created: '2009-10-30 13:24:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@speter\r\n\r\nbowerbird has written about, on Typophile, why he formats
    that way, and I've gotten used to it. bb's an acquired taste.\r\nBut if it bugs
    you - if you're using Firefox, let's say - after spending a year or so learning
    the ins and outs of Cascading Style Sheets and HTML, you could create a custom
    style sheet that attempts to deal with it. (For all I know, Steve, you already
    know how.) But the more I think about it, it would probably require some JavaScript,
    too, to strip out the returns and replace the underscores.\r\nAt least on the
    web - not in an \"e-reader\" app where the content is already prepped for this
    kind of manipulation - this is where we find ourselves. The content *can* be manipulated
    in this way. It's just that it's a lot of bother. Right now, too much bother.\r\nIncidentally,
    this bothersomeness is one of the barriers to adoption for a CSS based HTML to
    PDF converter called Prince which looks to me like promising technology that anyone
    in the publishing business should at least know about. there's a sample on Prince's
    site of a wikipedia article, transformed for print, or pdf's print-to-screen,
    with justified text.\r\nLink and descriptive blurb <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/three-advances-in-screen-typography/\">here.</a>\r\n\r\n@arno,
    and all:\r\n\r\nRe: what's meant by a pixel, sub-pixel, and the grid, I found
    the exchange between John Hudson, David Berlow, and Greg Hitchcock an eye-opener:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/62675\r\n(Complete
    with humorous asides by Dezcom)\r\nGreg Hitchcock mentioned a whitepaper called
    <a href=\"http://academic.research.microsoft.com/Paper/1594436.aspx\">What Is
    A Pixel?</a> that you might want to check out. (warning: not free content. At
    least *I* couldn't find it for free.)\r\nGonna go have a Halloween cupcake for
    breakfast, now.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 14:36:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno said:\r\n>   Your picture illustrates, what I meant with \r\n>   the
    freedom of choice and the sponges \r\n>   in the drugstore. Thanks! The choice
    can be \r\n>   a loss of time. And a loss of time can be \r\n>   a loss of comfort.
    Because of that \r\n>   I always buy the \u201Csame\u201D sponge. \r\n\r\ndon't
    be confused by a tangential argument...\r\n\r\nthe \"paradox of choice\" is a
    real phenomenon.\r\n\r\nbut it doesn't apply to what i'm talking about.\r\n\r\nit's
    not as if we throw an amorphous lump of text\r\nat the person and force them to
    shape it themselves.\r\n\r\nwhat they get is a book that is nicely-formatted,\r\naccording
    to the best professional input available,\r\nas per conventions both traditional
    and contemporary.\r\n\r\nhowever, if some part of that \"professional formatting\"\r\ndoes
    not appeal to them, for some reason, then they\r\nhave the ability to change it,
    to their own specification.\r\n\r\nfor instance, if the fontsize is too small,
    then they can\r\nmake it bigger.  or if they don't like the choice of font,\r\nthey
    can choose another font.  sounds reasonable, yes?\r\n\r\nof course, choosing another
    font and/or another size\r\nmeans that the entire book needs to be reformatted,\r\nbut
    that's not a big deal with an e-book...  and since\r\na clever e-book viewer-app
    is nothing more (or less)\r\nthan a wysiwyg program for print-on-demand output,\r\nwe've
    facilitated the process of p-book customization.\r\n\r\ni'm not sure why some
    people here object to that...\r\n\r\nperhaps they just don't like me?  but how
    could that be?\r\ni'm such a sweet, sensitive, generous, kind, loving person.\r\n\r\nok,
    yeah, i write some long-ass posts, and that's \"bad\".\r\n\r\nbut richard _did_
    instruct me \"not to waffle\".  so i didn't.\r\n\r\n(even though richard has acknowledged
    that he _likes_\r\nwaffles, and even has them for _dinner_.  so you know.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ oh, and i should report that, once you actually _give_\r\npeople the ability
    to customize their reading environment,\r\nmany of them become very strong users
    of the capability.\r\npeople report that they change their fontsize frequently,\r\ndepending
    on how \"tired\" their eyes are, or the time of day,\r\nor the lighting conditions,
    or any other number of variables.\r\n\r\nmany e-book programs even have a switch
    that lets users\r\ntoggle \"daytime\" mode (black type on a white background)\r\nand
    \"nighttime\" mode (white type on a black background)...\r\n\r\nonce these people
    get accustomed to these possibilities,\r\nthe static print-book with its \"one-size-fits-all\"
    attitude\r\njust seems too constraining to them, and they abandon it.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-30 20:04:43'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>oh, and i should report that, once you actually _give_\r\npeople the
    ability to customize their reading environment,\r\nmany of them become very strong
    users of the capability.\r\npeople report that they change their fontsize frequently,\r\ndepending
    on how \u201Ctired\u201D their eyes are, or the time of day,\r\nor the lighting
    conditions, or any other number of variables.\r\n\r\nmany e-book programs even
    have a switch that lets users\r\ntoggle \u201Cdaytime\u201D mode (black type on
    a white background)\r\nand \u201Cnighttime\u201D mode (white type on a black background)...\r\n\r\nonce
    these people get accustomed to these possibilities,\r\nthe static print-book with
    its \u201Cone-size-fits-all\u201D attitude\r\njust seems too constraining to them,
    and they abandon it.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you back that up with actual proof, such
    as statistics?"
  created: '2009-10-30 21:26:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Richard\r\n\r\nI printed a text example (Palatino, belonging to Windows
    XP) with my laser printer in 12 points. I think, that it emulates its 1200 dpi,
    but I am not sure. At least the quality is less good, if I print with 600 dpi.
    I decided to store the image in gif format, because with regard to the form of
    the letters there was no difference. And the 600 dpi scan was too small. So I
    scanned with 1200 dpi:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.zshare.net/image/677211620aa1da4b/\r\n(3,32
    MB)\r\n\r\nThe printer prints slightly thinner, than the real outline is. As far
    as I know, \"real\" offset print shows the same tendency, although the printer
    (the person) can take a few countermeasures. On a smooth paper the letters are
    (very) slightly thicker than on the (natural) copy paper, but in most cases I
    prefer the copy paper, because it is less sensitive to mechanical influences and
    the letters feel better on that paper. And I assume, that my cheap printer doesn\u2019t
    play in the same league as a Xante printer. By the way, does Xante still produce
    small laser printer units?\r\n\r\n@bowerbird\r\n\r\nAs I already wrote. Your vision
    does not sound bad. But I am afraid, that these new technologies and marketing
    strategies will not exist parallel to the \"classic\" offset book printing. It
    would not matter, if the quality really would be the same as high quality offset
    printing, bookbinding and so on. But in my imagination we already lost so many
    professions and experiences (stored in the brain). Example: There was a profession,
    in which blades were ornamented with the help of acid (as far as I remember).
    Very beautiful. Or did you know, that nobody can forge swords in the same quality
    anymore as people could many decades ago?\r\n\r\nProbably most of you know this
    wonderful video about the Firefly Press:\r\n\r\nhttp://elsa.photo.net/video/firefly.mov\r\n\r\nI
    really admire those men. How can you admire an on-demand-laser-printer?"
  created: '2009-10-30 23:42:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Ricardo Cordoba to bowerbird>Can you back that up with actual proof, such
    as statistics?\r\n\r\nI don't know if he can or not. But I can tell you it gibes
    with my personal experience. I find myself no longer satisfied with traditional
    books. I miss hyperlinks and the invitation to explore.\r\nI also can't stand
    the text size on paperbacks anymore. My eyes just can't handle it. (Accessibility
    laws should exist that trump copyright law with regard to this.)\r\nThese are
    just two off the cuff examples from my own experience. I find it hard to believe
    I'm alone in this.\r\n\r\n@bowerbird\r\nGet with it, man. \"Tangential\" has now
    become \"orthogonal\", I've noticed.\r\nYou know what German pilots eat for breakfast?
    Luftwaffles!"
  created: '2009-10-31 00:52:13'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t know if he can or not.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, let's let him answer
    that one. :-)"
  created: '2009-10-31 02:15:24'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Birds of a feather, or one and the same, actually?
  created: '2009-10-31 04:53:22'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Eh wot? You can't be serious, paragraph. :-)
  created: '2009-10-31 06:38:16'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ricardo said:\r\n>   Can you back that up with \r\n>   actual proof, such
    as statistics?\r\n\r\nas i said earlier in the thread,\r\nif you peruse the digitizations\r\nin
    the mobilread.com library,\r\nyou can see how different people\r\nset various
    parameters differently.\r\n\r\nif you engage with people there,\r\nand ask them
    about if/how they\r\nchange those values mid-stream,\r\ni'll sure they will tell
    you the same\r\nthat i have reported to you here...\r\n\r\ncan you find people
    who will read\r\nthrough something without doing\r\nany adjustments, even if they
    can,\r\nand the default values are horrible?\r\n\r\nwell, yes, i'm quite sure
    that you can.\r\nsome people will suffer through bad\r\ndeals, bad meals, even
    bad marriages.\r\nday in, day out, for years and years,\r\nand without issuing
    any complaints.\r\n\r\nothers will be proactive about fixing\r\nthe problems they
    find in their lives,\r\nespecially if they've been empowered.\r\n\r\nand then
    there is yet another class,\r\nthe people who won't fix things but\r\n_do_ enjoy
    bitching about everything.\r\ni suspect you're in that class, ricardo.\r\nafter
    all, you've made it very clear that\r\nyou do not enjoy my posts, but yet you\r\ncontinue
    reading and responding to 'em.\r\nsomething of a masochist, you seem to be.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ i used to constantly be upping the size\r\nof the fonts on a very high percentage
    of the\r\nwebsites that i visited.  then i found a setting\r\nthat says \"upsize
    any type below ___ points\"...\r\nthat certainly made my life a whole lot easier.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 02:04:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nFrom message to message your lines become shorter.\r\n\r\n<cite>can
    you find people who will read\r\nthrough something without doing\r\nany adjustments,
    even if they can,\r\nand the default values are horrible?</cite>\r\n\r\nWho pays
    the reader for the work, that he has to invest for making a book legible? If I
    order an ebook and it is unlegible, can I send it back then? Okay, if I have seen
    a preview of the typographically horrible ebook, it is my fault, if I buy it.
    What I hope is, that the \"typographers\" of the future don\u2019t burden the
    reader their job because of the new possibilities of the reader. In this context
    I also would like to know, if I can lend ebooks in the library of the future.
    Or will this be dependent from licenses, that vary from publishing house to publishing
    house? Am I allowed to loan ebooks to friends? Will I be allowed to email them
    to a friend?\r\n\r\nDo you know these dreams, that have a wonderful start and
    end in horror? I have the vision of a widow, peacefully deciphering the ebook
    in the garden, that it got from mama Amazon at Christmas, and later it is shot
    by a content mafioso.\r\n\r\n@Richard\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know, if that works,
    but please try to scan a bit of text, displayed on your iRex, or take a picture
    with a camera from it, if you have one (with macro lenses)."
  created: '2009-11-01 11:47:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>if you peruse the digitizations\r\nin the mobilread.com library</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    funny, you didn't provide a link.\r\nIs it http://www.mobilread.com/? Because
    that domain is for sale.\r\nOh, wait! I guess you meant http://www.mobileread.com/.\r\nThank
    you!\r\n\r\n<em>and then there is yet another class,\r\nthe people who won\u2019t
    fix things but\r\n_do_ enjoy bitching about everything.\r\ni suspect you\u2019re
    in that class, ricardo.\r\nafter all, you\u2019ve made it very clear that\r\nyou
    do not enjoy my posts, but yet you\r\ncontinue reading and responding to \u2019em.\r\nsomething
    of a masochist, you seem to be.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's very clear that you don't know
    me well."
  created: '2009-11-01 18:28:44'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno said:\r\n>   From message to message your lines become shorter.\r\n\r\nsome
    messages -- like the \"bingo\" one above --\r\nhave lines that are \"too long\",
    in the sense that\r\nthey wrap in a stair-step fashion, that gets ugly.\r\n\r\nso
    i go shorter to avoid that.\r\n\r\n(i've also found that sometimes resizing the
    window\r\nwill get rid of the stair-stepping, i'm not sure why,\r\nbut if you
    find yourself in that situation, do try that.)\r\n\r\nalso, in some sense, the
    lines in each comment\r\nfind their own length, by virtue of what they say.\r\n\r\nwhich
    is why poets have always used short lines.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Who pays the reader
    for the work, \r\n>   that he has to invest for making a book legible? \r\n\r\nthe
    book is \"legible\" to begin with.\r\n\r\nif you want to modify it, you take on
    the work.\r\n\r\njust like if you move into a house, and the bathroom\r\nworks
    just fine, but you don't like it for some reason,\r\nso you remodel it so that
    it will please you better...\r\nyou have to take responsibility for the remodeling.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  If I order an ebook and it is unlegible, \r\n>   can I send it back then? \r\n\r\ni
    suppose it depends on the seller.\r\n\r\nbut yes, i have heard of people who have
    returned\r\nan e-book to amazon because it was badly done...\r\n\r\n(most of the
    problems with e-books these days\r\ninvolve typos, but formatting is also a big
    issue.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Okay, if I have seen a preview of the typographically \r\n>
    \  horrible ebook, it is my fault, if I buy it.\r\n\r\nwell, not necessarily.
    \ with many e-book retailers,\r\nyou cannot preview all of the pages in the book...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  What I hope is, that the \u201Ctypographers\u201D of the future \r\n>   don\u2019t
    burden the reader their job because of \r\n>   the new possibilities of the reader.
    \r\n\r\ni think the creator of a book wants it to look nice,\r\nas a general rule,
    just as a function of simple pride.\r\n\r\nthe problem is that we don't all agree
    on what's \"nice\".\r\n\r\n\r\n>   In this context I also would like to know,
    \r\n>   if I can lend ebooks in the library of the future. \r\n\r\nwell, hey,
    isn't that just the question of the moment?\r\n\r\neveryone is trying to figure
    out \"the business model\"\r\nof electronic-books, so a lot of feet are being
    dragged.\r\neveryone wants to make sure they get a slice of the pie.\r\n\r\nright
    now, you can borrow e-books from some libraries,\r\nyes.  the library buys a certain
    number of copies, and\r\nthen loans them out -- one at a time -- to their patrons,\r\nand
    when each one is returned, then it can be lent again.\r\n\r\nin other words, the
    library pretends that the e-book is\r\na physical product.  which is the height
    of silliness, as far\r\nas i'm concerned, because the very virtue of an e-book\r\nis
    that it is _not_ physical, and can be copied at no cost.\r\n\r\nbut that's the
    state of the world today.\r\n\r\ncheck back tomorrow, however, to see if it has
    changed.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Or will this be dependent from licenses, that \r\n>   vary
    from publishing house to publishing house? \r\n\r\nsome publishing houses have
    declined to sign with overdrive\r\nor netlibrary, the two companies who're doing
    the lending...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Am I allowed to loan ebooks to friends? \r\n\r\nbarnes
    & noble are coming out with an e-book-machine\r\n-- called the \"nook\" -- and
    one of the features offered is\r\nto loan an e-book to a friend.  each e-book
    can only be\r\nloaned out once, and then just for 14 days, but it's a start.\r\n\r\nhowever,
    each publisher can veto this sharing privilege for\r\ntheir books, and it's probably
    the case that most will do so.\r\n\r\n(kindle, amazon's machine, offered to allow
    people to use\r\ntext-to-speech, where the machine read the book out loud,\r\nbut
    publishers complained about this, so amazon let them\r\nveto the privilege, and
    most of them went on to do that.)\r\n\r\nall this is representative of the push-and-push-back
    that\r\nis the general state of the situation today for e-books...\r\n\r\nmeanwhile,
    books are becoming less and less relevant to\r\na population of people who can
    find lots of other things\r\nto occupy their time.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Will I be allowed
    to email them to a friend?\r\n\r\nno.  indeed, you won't be able to get at the
    raw text at all.\r\nbecause that would enable you to \"pirate\" it far too easily,\r\nand
    \"piracy\" is the biggest nightmare of the big publishers.\r\n\r\nso they're locking
    up the text of their books as tightly as\r\nthey possibly can.  which is -- for
    the most part -- stupid,\r\nsince it's still possible to take a screenshot of
    that text, and\r\nscan each page of a paper-book, if you want to do \"piracy\".\r\n\r\nbut,
    you know, the capitalists don't think with their brain,\r\nthey think with their
    wallets.\r\n\r\nso the sad thing is that -- for many of the modifications\r\nthat
    i'm talking about -- people aren't able to make them,\r\nbecause inferior e-book
    software will not allow them to...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Do you know these dreams, that
    have a wonderful start \r\n>   and end in horror? I have the vision of a widow,
    \r\n>   peacefully deciphering the ebook in the garden,\r\n>   that it got from
    mama Amazon at Christmas, \r\n>   and later it is shot by a content mafioso.\r\n\r\nit
    could happen.  the record industry sues their customers.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-01 22:34:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nI think, that the biggest problem of ebook devices, is
    the fixed format, because the proportion of a page should not be arbitrary but
    harmonious, following a natural proportion like the Golden Section or the tall
    hexagon. You can change the margins by changing the length of the lines only.
    Tschichold writes in one of his essays, that a page with the proportion 1 : 1
    would need a font with a wider tracking, because the proportions of the letters
    o and n should also be in harmony with the page proportion. While I assume, that
    the relative resolution can be improved in the future, I don\u2019t see a way,
    how to produce an ebook device, that can change its physical proportion."
  created: '2009-11-03 19:05:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno-\r\n\r\nmost e-book reader-machines have a portrait screen,\r\nbut can
    also be rotated so as to show a landscape page.\r\n\r\nthe specific dimensions,
    however, can vary quite widely.\r\n\r\ni don't recall many complaints being voiced
    about the\r\naspect-ratio of the screens, and perhaps none at all...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 10:15:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nI think, you have misunderstood me. I meant the physical
    proportions of ebook devices. One size and one proportion cannot fit all books.
    You would need different ebook devices for different books. For the one book the
    Golden Section is the optimal proportion, for the other the tall hexagon. I can
    recommend the book <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>; Robert Bringhurst,
    the author, lists a lot of different non arbitrary proportions in that book. And
    the book itself is almost a master piece of typographic style in my humble non
    professional opinion, maybe except from the inner margins of the paper back edition,
    which are so small, that you need too much power for keeping the book folded out,
    which tortures the book a bit. Jan Tschichold says, that the proportion of the
    opened book is relevant, but not the proportion of the closed book \u2013 so the
    book makers have to care about the length of the paper, that is lost in the back
    of the book. I like books, which I can easily and totally open up, but this seems
    to require a \"special\" kind of book binding (A rounded back? I miss the term
    and I am amateur.), which many books miss. I think, this definitively is an advantage
    of screens, but the advantage is lost at once, because the physical proportion
    is fixed. The ebook device cannot change its form. I think, that one of the reasons
    of the beginning popularity of ebooks is the simple fact, that many, if not most
    of the \"printed books\", are not really well made. In my non professional opinion
    many of the existing body text fonts, are not made for offset print, although
    I formed this opinion with the help of my laser printer (which prints relatively
    close to the outline). They often are too thin or too contrasted. (Particulary
    this doesn\u2019t seem to work because of the depth of the toner black.) I already
    told, that I bought the German edition of Gerard Unger\u2019s \"While you\u2019re
    reading\"; the page numbers of the left and right page are always on the right
    page (\"202 203\" on page number 203). This is totally senseless! It is just for
    the devilment in my non professional opinion. It bothers and it is uncomfortable.
    Yes, if it would be an ebook, I maybe could change that, but I cannot understand,
    why the fact, that things can be changed, shall excuse the faults of book makers.
    I have to say, that <em>While you\u2019re reading</em> nevertheless is a good
    book; it is worth to buy.\r\n\r\nWhat I fear, is, that the low aesthetic quality
    of ebook devices \u2013 and beauty always has a function \u2013 will be a new
    benchmark of printed books. Oscar Wilde writes in the prologue of <em>The Picture
    of Dorian Gray</em>, that all art is useless. Be sure, that he just meant the
    complete contrary! I fear a loss of quality of the printed book in price war or
    a great rise in the price of printed books or both. Man exists for making art."
  created: '2009-11-04 16:30:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The printed book is about touch, smell and comfort. I know I am an old fart
    and just plain love books so I don't qualify to say what will happen to future
    generations who will grow up texting while driving. The greatest effect on books
    will be the quality of writing. An authors talent to suspend reality in favor
    of a perfectly revealed world where we can see into the minds of the written players
    does not exist in today's TV world of excess special effects. Luckily, I won't
    live to see whatever replaces not just the book but inept writing--the greater
    loss of the two.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-04 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "yes, arno, there is a uniformity to books\r\npresented by an e-book reader-machine.\r\n\r\nand
    even print-on-demand machinery is\r\nlikely to be size-constrained for a while.\r\n\r\nbut
    you can rework an e-book file and\r\ntake it to a specialty printer (or kinko's)\r\nand
    have it printed at any size you want,\r\nand then have it bound however you like.\r\nin
    other words, you do a print-run of one.\r\n\r\nthe other thing is that e-books
    allow you\r\n-- as an author -- to solicit purchasers\r\nin advance of a print-run,
    by letting them\r\nview the book's pages as they'll be printed.\r\n\r\nso if you
    have a coffeetable book, say, and\r\nyou want to do a print-run, you can allow\r\npeople
    to view the e-book and make their\r\ndecision about whether to buy, so you know\r\nwith
    great certainty how big to make the run.\r\n\r\nthis might well produce even more
    beautiful\r\nprint-books down the line, because authors\r\ncan avoid the expense
    of a too-big print-run.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 22:08:21'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Chris\r\n\r\nI am not sure, if I understand. Do you mean, that in a time,
    that is short-living and fast-moving as ours, the quiet, that is necessary for
    making fine pieces of art, is missing?\r\n\r\nIf yes, I doubt, that this is true,
    although I am not sure. Great geniuses were scarce at all times. (On the other
    side I doubt, that the history filter reliably works.)\r\n\r\nOne problem of the
    future could be, that computers don\u2019t forget. There are considerations in
    the context of data protection, to make the world wide web forgetful. This also
    could be useful in another context: The unforgetfulness of computers possibly
    jams the history filter. But which algorithm could be able to decide, which information
    is more important than the other? Will we loose the orientation in our data collecting
    mania?"
  created: '2009-11-04 22:13:18'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "About the idea of a forgetful (being able to forgive by forgetting) web:
    http://press.princeton.edu/titles/8981.html\r\n\r\n@bowerbird\r\n\r\n<em>but you
    can rework an e-book file and\r\ntake it to a specialty printer (or kinko\u2019s)\r\nand
    have it printed at any size you want,\r\nand then have it bound however you like.\r\nin
    other words, you do a print-run of one.</em>\r\n\r\nWe are going round in circles.
    With regard to the technical possibilities of on-demand-prints our positions are
    less different than our confidence in the knowledge and the wellfounded, non arbitrary
    decision-making abilities of non professional typographers. And in the post, to
    which you reply, I was regarding to ebook devices, but not to print on demand.
    I simply have not seen a book, that was made on demand."
  created: '2009-11-04 23:27:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\n\r\nI know exactly how you feel about e-books lacking the look,
    the feel, and especially the <i>smell</i> of real paper books.\r\nBut this problem
    has been solved! I wrote about Smell Of Books&trade; Aerosol on <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/smell-of-books-aerosol-adds-just-the-right-touch-of-familiarity/\">Readable
    Web</a> months ago. In fact, I think the scent of \"Old Fart\" would make an excellent
    addition to their already extensive selection.\r\nCheck it out. \r\n(Poke me on
    Facebook - I might be able to get you the bulk price!)\r\n\r\n@arno\r\nI'm going
    to try and get a shot of the iRex screen posted ASAP. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 00:43:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-05 01:07:54'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\n\r\nThought you'd like that.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-11-05 02:14:44'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "arno said:\r\n>   We are going round in circles.\r\n\r\num, not me.  in my
    first contribution to this thread,\r\ni noted there are more horses now than there
    were\r\n100 years ago, when we used 'em for transportation.\r\n\r\nlikewise, there
    will be just as many (if not more)\r\nprint-books in the years ahead of us than
    now,\r\neven if the majority of books are read digitally...\r\n\r\nso if -- as
    you posited above -- there are some books\r\nthat will lose something important
    by homogenization\r\non an e-reader, then people will simply print them out,\r\nto
    avoid those negative effects of that homogenization.\r\n\r\nor, as i put it up
    above:\r\n>   paper-books will survive and thrive even when\r\n>   e-books are
    the primary method of distribution.\r\n\r\nso there's no need for an either/or
    mentality here...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   our confidence in the knowledge and the \r\n>
    \  wellfounded, non arbitrary decision-making \r\n>   abilities of non professional
    typographers\r\n\r\nwhen you define the task in terms of \"abilities\",\r\nthe
    dice are loaded against \"non-professionals\",\r\nto be sure...\r\n\r\nbut if
    you define it in terms of easy questions of\r\n\"do you want it to look like _this_,
    or like _that_?\",\r\nthen it becomes much easier to trust a non-expert,\r\nespecially
    if their only task is to answer to themselves.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I simply have not
    seen a book, that was made on demand.\r\n\r\nthe .pdf that was sent to the printer
    to make that\r\n\"professionally-printed\" book you admire so much\r\ncould be
    sent over to a print-on-demand outfit and\r\nit would come out as a book you admire
    very much.\r\n\r\nprint-on-demand books are not inferior in any way.\r\n(or, to
    put it another way, they come in at the same\r\nlow level of quality we've come
    to expect from books\r\nthat are published by the major houses these days.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 03:23:33'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>but if you define it in terms of easy questions of\r\n\u201Cdo
    you want it to look like _this_, or like _that_?\u201D,\r\nthen it becomes much
    easier to trust a non-expert,\r\nespecially if their only task is to answer to
    themselves.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think, that\u2019s true. And if the quality of books
    (the <em>thing</em>, but not the content only), that are printed on demand, is
    the same or better than the quality of books, that are produced and distributed
    in \"the traditional way\", I don\u2019t raise objections. With regard to prints
    on demand I am mainly sceptical because of my experiences with those things, that
    were made with more care in former days. And I don\u2019t trust in the market,
    at least not in times of turbo capitalism. (Last evening there was a documentation
    about the fall of the German producer of toy trains <em>M\xE4rklin<em> on TV.
    It\u2019s a shame.)"
  created: '2009-11-05 09:39:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n<em>the other thing is that e-books allow you\r\n\u2014 as
    an author \u2014 to solicit purchasers\r\nin advance of a print-run, by letting
    them\r\nview the book\u2019s pages as they\u2019ll be printed.</em>\r\n\r\nGoes
    further than this. Last month I bought a book-in-progess by JavaScript guru John
    Resig. Not even complete yet. (as a pdf)\r\nWhen it's finished, they'll get in
    touch and I'll be able to download the \"finished\" book.\r\n\r\nI mean, why wait?
    Anyone interested can get a sneak peak.\r\nWonderful promotional idea.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    and you probably know this already, studies show that people who download the
    most free stuff also buy the most stuff.\r\n\r\n(for some reason, this post is
    coming up all italic. Can't see why. Moderator! Moderator!)"
  created: '2009-11-05 16:29:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Richard, it probably means that someone didn't close their italics tag...
    Possibly Arno, at the end of his last comment.
  created: '2009-11-05 20:54:01'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "</em></em>The slash in the closing em-tag of my previous message is missing.
    I have closed the two open tags now.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em class=\"comment comment-new\">class=\"comment
    comment-new\"</em>\r\n<em class=\"new\">class=\"new\"</em>\r\n<em class=\"content\">class=\"content\"</em>\r\n<em
    class=\"info\">class=\"info\"</em>\r\n\r\nFunny board software.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 21:40:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Richard\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m going to try and get a shot of the iRex screen
    posted ASAP.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease!"
  created: '2009-11-12 11:14:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Well, I'm glad that's settled then; the future of the book <em>is</em> digital.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-12 12:55:26'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "david said:\r\n>   Well, I\u2019m glad that\u2019s settled then; \r\n>   the
    future of the book is digital.\r\n\r\nyeah, right, you know, just like \r\nall
    our offices are now paperless.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-13 19:45:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes, bowerbird, the future of the office too <em>is</em> paperless.\r\nIn
    the last 20 years, this idea has made remarkable strides. \r\nHuge, vast, quantities
    of offices, have done so all that can, will. \r\n\r\nSame with books. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-16 11:49:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">this idea has made remarkable strides.\r\n\r\nThe usual story is that we
    use more paper than ever. According to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paperless_office|wikipedia
    article on the Paperless Office]] office paper use doubled from 1980 to 2000,
    as people printed out more, not less from computers than they had from typewriters.
    The source for the claim is an article in the Economist. \r\n\r\nIs this wrong?
    What is happening that you think will reduce paper?"
  created: '2009-11-16 14:36:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "And in comparison to the lifetime of most office documents, the lifetime
    of printed books is longer, isn\u2019t it? (The environment argument against printed
    books.)"
  created: '2009-11-16 16:46:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill, there may be a distinction to investigate between \"office paper\"
    -- which may very well only measure what we might also call \"copy paper\" coming
    out of copiers, desktop printers, and the like -- and all of the paper typically
    used in an office circa 20 years ago (like all the plotter-printed data that used
    to be filed for which we now have digital databases, or billing/invoicing records,
    etc.). \r\n\r\nIs there really more paper in offices? Or does it only seem that
    way when one focuses on one aspect of paper in an office."
  created: '2009-11-16 17:42:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Kent, checking out the Economist article of 2008 linked on the Wikipedia,
    it seems to be a pretty general measure of paper used. However, after rising sharply
    from 1980 to 2000, since then paper use has been declining slowly. So maybe things
    are headed toward less paper after all. It seems to be a really complex question. '
  created: '2009-11-16 19:01:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I'd like to bookmark this thread so I can track it later.\r\n\r\nAh? Yes?
    <em>book</em>mark?\r\n\r\nAwh c'mon. That was good material\u2026"
  created: '2009-11-16 19:11:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Whoops. How do you delete an accidental double post?
  created: '2009-11-16 19:37:07'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Arno, a couple times you have cited that there are more horses today than
    there were when they were the main use of transportation. Where does that fact
    come from?\r\n\r\nI note that here http://answers.google.com/answers/threadview?id=144565\r\nit
    reports that in 1915, when autos were just taking over, there were 21.5 million
    horses in the US, and today there are 6.9 million.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-16 20:00:57'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Don McCahill\r\n\r\n<cite>Arno, a couple times you have cited that there
    are more horses today than there were when they were the main use of transportation.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    was not me; I did not talk about horses. What shall the comparison mean? Ebook
    devices are on the car level and books are on the horse level with regard to functionality?
    That would be ridiculous, because functionality does primary mean legibility in
    this context. I would not prefer an ebook, just because it can play MP3 or take
    photographs."
  created: '2009-11-16 21:31:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "bowerbird cited the thing about horses.\r\nIn part, I agree. There are definitely
    more horses asses than ever before.\r\n(Present company excepted, of course.)\r\n\r\nSon
    of a gun had me thinking about it, too. What is it indicative of? Nothing! So
    what if there are more horses. Are there more buggys? More covered wagons? More
    horsewhips? Dung in the streets? What's the analogy?\r\n\r\nI don't know anything
    about the stats on paper usage, but I do know that I print less now, using an
    LCD display, than I did when I used a CRT. FWIW.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-11-16 23:48:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We produce many more information products now than before the DTP era began.
    All of these need proofing and thus paper. But, if we see how much paper per info
    product we produce, we might have a meaningful figure.  With PDF proofing, today
    I would say paper use is on the way down but not there yet.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-17 00:07:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "In my paperless office eveyone is emailed documents that formerly would have
    been printed and distributed manually to everyone who needed them. \r\n\r\nNow
    they are e-mailed so that we can print our own copies. As often as we like. (it
    really is much easier to just print a new copy when you need it than to file the
    first one for later.)\r\n\r\nNo. The future of the book in not digital\u2026\r\n\r\nAt
    leat - not yet. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-17 04:11:20'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i'm the one who was talking \r\nabout the number of horses.\r\n\r\nand, if
    you choose to check,\r\nyou'll see i covered my ass with:\r\n\r\n>   (or so i
    have heard.)\r\n\r\ni'm also the one who brought up\r\nclaims about the paperless
    office.\r\n\r\nmost people will tell you that it is\r\ntrue that they use more
    paper now\r\nsimply because they'll print out the\r\nentire document if changes
    are made,\r\nwhereas in the past workers avoided\r\nretyping all the perfectly
    good pages.\r\n\r\non the other hand, there are people\r\nlike me who've gone
    without a printer\r\nfor several years now, to no ill effect.\r\n\r\n(on those
    very rare occasions where i\r\nsimply must have something printed,\r\nlike a boarding
    pass, i send it over to\r\nmy girlfriend, and she prints it for me.)\r\n\r\nso
    i was essentially pointing out that\r\nthe waters are very muddy, and you can\r\nsee
    whatever you choose to see in the\r\npuddles, the clouds, and the tea leaves.\r\n\r\nespecially
    since many of us old-timers are\r\nwell-acquainted with the pleasure of paper,\r\nand
    there is surely no question that paper\r\nis very handy, and printers are very
    cheap,\r\ni am positive there will continue to be books\r\nthat are printed --
    on demand -- even when\r\nthe vast majority of books are read digitally...\r\n\r\nand,
    no mistake, that is how they will be read.\r\n\r\nbecause the future of the book
    is clearly and\r\nunequivocally digital.  it is only a matter of\r\nhow quickly
    we get to the future from here.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-17 07:47:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Another thing to add to my earlier - I do quite a bit of proofreading of
    academic work. At first I asked for paper copies, marked that up first. And then
    the changes were incorporated into the digital.\r\nFor some reason, and I really
    don't know why, I found collaboration was just as easy when I skipped the paper
    step and now just work from the digital.\r\nA lot of this, undoubtedly, has to
    do with the willingness to break old habits. Of course \"willingness\" can be
    imposed in a number of ways.\r\nCost of ink cartridges, etc...\r\n\r\nSad to say,
    but I think near-geezers like me will have to die off before paperless starts
    getting real traction. And the schools should be the first environment to go paperless
    but the technology and the budget - you've got to see the quality of the equipment
    in the computer rooms at some elementary schools - isn't there."
  created: '2009-11-17 13:32:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Richard, I'm surprised that you can proofread on screen, as I find it much
    easier on paper. Do you blow up the type large on screen? Is that the trick?
  created: '2009-11-17 13:51:31'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Richard\r\n\r\n<cite>And the schools should be the first environment to
    go paperless but the technology and the budget - you\u2019ve got to see the quality
    of the equipment in the computer rooms at some elementary schools - isn\u2019t
    there.</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause we need the money for much more important things
    than children: http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/the-billion-dollar-gram/\r\n\r\nYou
    are dreaming from a paperless world. But our Juntas even don\u2019t have money
    for a basic humanistic education.\r\n\r\n@ William\r\n\r\n<cite>Do you blow up
    the type large on screen? Is that the trick?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis cannot be the
    trick, because either you would need a big distance to the screen or you don\u2019t
    read words but letters. There must be a metaphysical component in Richard\u2019s
    screens. Virtual pixels with a lifetime, that is so short, that it can\u2019t
    be measured (and not scanned!)."
  created: '2009-11-17 17:44:42'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: "I ALWAYS proofread on screen, as it enables me to directly correct the mistakes
    I made when initially writing the damn thing :-)\r\n\r\nHowever - I am not a Kindle
    owner (yet) - has anyone here ever settled down in front of a nice fire, with
    a good glass of whiskey, a nice blanket, and has read a really GOOD book... on
    an E-Reader? How did it FEEL?\r\n\r\nI am an old bookworm, and I have no idea
    what it FEELS like to read a good story on a screen. Does it WORK?"
  created: '2009-11-17 17:53:05'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Werfer\r\n\r\nI am not a nostalgic, but what you are calling <em>feeling</em>,
    is, what I call <em>functionality</em>. There is a connection between beauty and
    functionality. From a certain point of view beauty can be interpreted as functionality.
    If the other circumstances are the same, beauty has an evolutionary advantage.
    Books are closer to our nature, because they are closer to the stuff, from which
    we are made. Paper is more life than plastic, isn\u2019t it? When plastic still
    was alife, the days were shorter. But I don\u2019t know, how important the human
    ability of adaption is in this context. It also may be dependent from the content
    of the books. There is a contradiction between poems about sex, love and nature
    on the one and the cold smoothness of computers on the other side. (The preference
    of natural proportions is verified. Even the iRex can not change its proportions.
    I already did talk about that.)"
  created: '2009-11-17 18:17:35'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: There is a comparing test of ebook devices in the German computer magazin
    CT, edition 25/2009. I wish, they also would ask typographers about their opinion,
    when they make those tests. However, it is an opportunity, to put Richard in mind
    the scan of the iRex again. Please, Richard!
  created: '2009-11-30 19:14:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "A very long time in the future, it may indeed be that digital books will
    almost completely replace paper books. The preconditions for that are, of course:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Digital
    books, while they may be protected by some form of DRM, will be freely movable
    between display/storage devices,\r\n<li>A digital book, since it doesn't consume
    paper which is heavy to move around, will be somewhat less expensive than its
    paper counterpart, and\r\n<li>Digital book readers will be comfortable for reading,
    suitable for almost all types of book, inexpensive and convenient.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nWe're
    not quite there yet. But if these conditions are met, then the great advantages
    of digital books - the ability to carry a library of thousands of volumes in your
    pocket, rather than building an edifice to house it - would take over.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    for a long time to come, many older books will be available secondhand in paper
    form for as little as a dollar. Even if the DRM for digital books is such as to
    let one keep one's library when one buys a new digital book reader, and eliminate
    any concern over losing one's library if something happens to that book reader,
    it is not likely to also permit a market in secondhand copies of digital books
    to exist. Since every secondhand book started life as a new book, and purchasers
    of new books will have their own utility in mind when buying a new book, this
    in itself will not inhibit the success of the digital book.\r\n\r\nBut until the
    last paper book either falls into the public domain, or becomes an expensive collector's
    item, even long after new books have stopped being printed on paper, there will
    be a robust market in secondhand paper books."
  created: '2009-11-30 21:31:00'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "well, it's entertaining for someone to come in\r\nto a 2-page thread as if
    it had just started...\r\n\r\nbut let me interact with a few of the points\r\nfrom
    the post just entered by quadiblock...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   very long time in the future,
    it may \r\n>   indeed be that digital books will \r\n>   almost completely replace
    paper books.\r\n\r\nit's really best, most of the time, to think of e-books\r\nas
    _supplementing_ p-books, not _replacing_ them...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Digital books,
    while they may be protected by \r\n>   some form of DRM, will be freely movable
    \r\n>   between display/storage devices,\r\n\r\ne-books aren't going to go anywhere
    until publishers\r\ngive up an insistence on d.r.m., totally and completely.\r\n\r\nd.r.m.
    adds to the cost, and subtracts from the utility,\r\nand there's already a bad
    tug-of-war going on between\r\nthe buyers and sellers of books, in regard to pricing,
    so\r\nthere's no wiggle-room in which d.r.m. can inject itself.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   A
    digital book, since it doesn\u2019t consume paper \r\n>   which is heavy to move
    around, will be \r\n>   somewhat less expensive than its paper counterpart\r\n\r\ne-books
    will be _far_ less expensive than paper-books...\r\nan e-book is essentially a
    file, at most a collection of files.\r\nthe costs are creation, editing, and maybe
    fact-checking...\r\neverything else is fat from middlemen that'll be eliminated.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  the great advantages of digital books - the ability to \r\n>   carry a library
    of thousands of volumes in your pocket, \r\n>   rather than building an edifice
    to house it - would take over.\r\n\r\ncarrying a library in your pocket is an
    amazing thing, for sure.\r\n\r\nbut in an age where people carry the _internet_
    in their pocket,\r\nit's really not that big of a deal.\r\n\r\nthe _real_ advantage
    of e-books -- like all digital content --\r\nis that the reproduction and distribution
    cost is nearly zero.\r\n\r\nwe can now give a book to every person on the planet,
    and\r\ni mean it quite literally.  indeed, we can give _every_ book to\r\nevery
    person on the planet, if we decide that's what we want.\r\n\r\nwhen we are finally
    able to wrap our heads around _that_\r\n-- books being a primary vehicle for communicating
    our\r\nknowledge and culture -- the potential should boggle us.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   However,
    for a long time to come, many older books will be \r\n>   available secondhand
    in paper form for as little as a dollar. \r\n\r\nactually, i think they will be
    available, but not for a dollar.\r\n\r\nhere's what's going to happen.\r\n\r\nthe
    big publishing houses -- which of course are all owned\r\nby corporations -- are
    dinosaurs which will soon experience\r\nthe occasion of their extinction.  they
    will stop making money.\r\nand when corporations stop making money, they exit
    the scene.\r\n\r\nwhen that happens, a flock of new mammals will emerge, but\r\nthey
    won't be able to maintain the vast industry we now know.\r\n\r\nso the number
    of new paper-books printed will plummet...\r\n\r\nhowever, the number of books
    that are released as e-books\r\nwill skyrocket.  since many people will still
    have a preference\r\nfor the paper-book experience, they'll use print-on-demand\r\nto
    get a hard-copy of the books that they really want to read.\r\n\r\nso even though
    the number of new books being printed in\r\nbig print-runs by big publishers will
    drop, the total number\r\nof books being printed will still remain rather high,
    relatively,\r\nmeaning that paper-books will still have a visible presence...\r\n\r\nhowever,
    they will become more _valuable_.  even books that\r\nare now available for a
    mere dollar will see their price double.\r\n\r\nso there _will_ be a strong market
    in second-hand p-books.\r\n\r\nof course, at a print-on-demand cost of a-penny-a-page,\r\nthere
    will be a firm ceiling on how high used prices will go.\r\n\r\nbut for truly old
    books (anything printed in a large print-run,\r\nnot just bona fide \"antiques\"),
    there'll be a collectors' market.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nthe thing is, the people who
    love paper-books are probably\r\nin for an extremely difficult time, at least
    in the short-run...\r\n\r\nbecause the corporations are gonna opt out, and that
    means\r\nvery few large print-runs, which means huge price increases.\r\n\r\nyou
    might crave the hard-copy when it costs $20, even $40,\r\nbut what about when
    it costs $50, or $60, or $80, or $100?\r\nhow many p-books are you gonna purchase
    at those prices?\r\nyour loyalty to ink-on-paper is going to be severely tested...\r\n\r\njust
    like all of the people who love their printed newspapers,\r\nand are sad to see
    them go, p-book people are gonna weep.\r\n\r\ncorporations don't care, though;
    they'll find something else\r\nto sell to you so that they can still make their
    bloody profits.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 21:46:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The number of new books in any form with quality content will diminish if
    there's no way for authors to get paid. As long as paper remains the only fair
    and workable form of \"DRM\" for books, paper will survive.\r\n\r\nAuthors, like
    type designers, or rock musicians, need to buy groceries. If they can't get the
    money to do that from their art, it won't be their day job."
  created: '2009-12-01 22:24:39'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>just like all of the people who love their printed
    newspapers,\r\nand are sad to see them go</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Go\" seems to be the
    right expression. They don\u2019t go to the internet. They simply go or the online
    editions don\u2019t have the same content as the print editions (target group
    orientated production). In the German debate about the pseudo barrier of \"child
    pornography\", the theme was more present in the online editions and the reports
    more critical with regard to the aims. The (printed) German magazine <em>Spiegel</em>
    is not the same as <em>Spiegel Online</em> with regard to the content. At the
    moment my position is relatively neutral with regard to the going of printed newspapers,
    but not with regard to the different content. But there are themes, that require
    much money for a good recherche. However, my knowledge about the coherencies is
    very limited.\r\n\r\nThis is (un)fortunately in German:\r\nhttp://www.zeit.de/2009/49/DOS-Medien?page=all"
  created: '2009-12-01 23:30:51'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "quadiblock said:\r\n>   The number of new books in any form \r\n>   with
    quality content will diminish \r\n>   if there\u2019s no way for authors to get
    paid.\r\n\r\nare you a writer?  \r\n\r\nor are you an accountant?\r\n\r\ndo you
    even _know_ any writers?\r\n\r\naccountants won't do accounting if they\r\ndon't
    get paid for doing it, that is true...\r\n\r\nwriters are not nearly so sensible.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  As long as paper remains \r\n>   the only fair and workable \r\n>   form of
    \u201CDRM\u201D for books, \r\n>   paper will survive.\r\n\r\nthere's a lot to
    unpack in that sentence.\r\n\r\nbut i can tell even from this distance that\r\nany
    effort in that direction is badly spent,\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Authors, like type designers,
    \r\n>   or rock musicians, \r\n>   need to buy groceries.\r\n\r\nok, it's perfectly
    clear that\r\nyou're not a rock musician.\r\n\r\nold joke:\r\nwhat do you call
    a bass-player\r\nwithout a girlfriend?  homeless.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   If they can\u2019t
    get the money to do that \r\n>   from their art, it won\u2019t be their day job.\r\n\r\nthe
    \"writers\" for whom writing is their \"day job\"\r\nare surely the saddest writing
    creatures around.\r\n\r\nwhen they're not rewording press releases, they're\r\ndrafting
    copy for dog-food or for local businesses.\r\n\r\nit's downright dreary.\r\n\r\nso
    much for \"their art\"...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 20:40:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Boy, this is the thread that never dies...\r\n\r\nquadiblock said:\r\n> The
    number of new books in any form\r\n> with quality content will diminish\r\n> if
    there\u2019s no way for authors to get paid.\r\n\r\nI, for one, am perfectly willing
    to take the chance that less will be produced if DRM goes bye-bye or if copyright
    becomes nullified by the behavior of the public at large. Alternative copyright
    schemes might provide a fairer result for authors, but will never happen politically.
    They'll die defending the Alamo.\r\nDig this: As reported on Boing Boing, in Denmark
    it's legal to make a copy of your DVD's for backup. But it's illegal to crack
    the encryption code to do so. So the guy cracked the code and then turned himself
    in! Absolutely true. He did it, he said, because he wanted to find out which of
    the two laws counted for more. After all, they can't both be \"the law\".\r\nThe
    funniest part is - he has yet to hear anything definitive from the authorities.
    They're not quite sure what to do with him.\r\n(This one had me rolling on the
    floor.)\r\nAnd I think bb is absolutely correct - until DRM is ditched entirely,
    E-Books face an unsurmountable hurdle no matter how good the devices get. IMHO.\r\n\r\n@werfer\r\n>However
    - I am not a Kindle owner (yet) - has anyone here\r\n>ever settled down in front
    of a nice fire, with a good\r\n>glass of whiskey, a nice blanket, and has read
    a really\r\n>GOOD book... on an E-Reader? How did it FEEL?\r\n\r\nSans the fire,
    and the whisky, but with a blanket, yes. How did it feel? You're kidding, right?
    Maybe not - well, the ideas the author was trying to convey to me through words
    managed to make their way through without any more of a problem than had they
    been presented using ink on paper.\r\n\r\n@bill\r\n>Richard, I\u2019m surprised
    that you can proofread on screen, as\r\n>I find it much easier on paper. Do you
    blow up the type\r\n>large on screen? Is that the trick?\r\n\r\nNo trick. It's
    a little tougher on the eyes than print, but the work, overall, goes a little
    faster as compensation. At least that what happened to me. I do zoom up the font
    size usually, yes, but not a lot. And once in a while, if I'm fatigued, I'll change
    the font to Cambria - a screen font with a larger x-height and very even hinting
    at any size. Times New Roman and Courier are relics - but that's what APA says
    to use. So it gets changed back to that before submission. I also edit with everything
    left-aligned. Much easier than the wackiness that happens onscreen when you edit
    a paper justified and without hyphenation. The body of the paper gets justified
    right before submission.\r\nNow, I can't vouch for what I would prefer if I had
    twenty papers to read and have to grade one right after the other with a deadline.
    But the profs at the online school my wife attends do it onscreen. And it's no
    cakewalk either. They're very thorough.\r\nAre they still accepting paper papers
    at the University these days? I had assumed everything would be digital submission,
    by now.\r\n\r\nRegards, Rich\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 01:44:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Alternative copyright schemes might provide a fairer result for authors,
    but will never happen politically.\r\n\r\nWhat alternatives did you have in mind? "
  created: '2009-12-04 13:03:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   What alternatives did you have in mind?\r\n\r\noh please no.  i tell
    you, no good will come of it.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 09:02:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">>What alternatives did you have in mind?\r\n>oh please no. i tell you, no
    good will come of it.\r\n\r\n@bill and bb\r\n\r\nbowerbird is probably correct
    - no good will come of it. However, I believe no good will come of it because
    *nothing* will come of it - reform is politically impossible. At least today.\r\nbb
    believes, I think, alternative copyright schemes are a plain old bad idea. But
    he can speak quite eloquently for himself.\r\nI'm an optimist who, by nature,
    looks for the middle ground. The laws exist, we have to deal with them.\r\nAnd
    I can't see the status quo as sustainable over the long term.\r\nI just got back
    from 4 weeks out of the country. This subject is a little OT but I *would* like
    to offer something in the way of explanation. I'll be back.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-08 04:58:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I basically agree with quadibloc and think BB's full of baloney.\r\n\r\nAnd
    to answer the rhetorical question posed to quad: I know a LOT of writers. The
    best man at my wedding has won more awards for his novels than I can keep track
    of.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-11 05:53:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomasphinney\r\n\r\nOnce very skeptical, I subscribe more and more to bb's
    baloney and coincidentally, the guy who was best man at my wedding is also a novelist.
    (We've known each other since the cradle - his father and my father were in first
    grade together.)\r\nHe also teaches creative writing at a university. Tenured.\r\nHe
    just finished a new book, sent it to his agent, and has palpitations every time
    his phone rings because it might be his agent with bad news. This is because the
    book biz is in such bad shape.\r\nI asked him why he doesn't try to publish digitally
    on his own. What's he got to lose?\r\nHe said there's \"no points\" for self-publishing.
    In other words, unless he goes through the established, formal channels and has
    a \"real\" publisher - whatever that is these days - he would lose Whoofie.\r\nI
    asked him what was more important, the \"points\" or having people read his stuff.\r\nHe
    didn't answer and I didn't press it.\r\nWriting has not been his \"day job\" for
    many years - his work as an educator covers the tab but he gets very liberal sabbaticals
    and such to write without the distraction of teaching.\r\nHas the guy who was
    best man at your wedding made a living from his writing alone?\r\n\r\n<em>The
    number of new books in any form with quality content will diminish if there\u2019s
    no way for authors to get paid.</em>\r\n<em>Authors, like type designers, or rock
    musicians, need to buy groceries. If they can\u2019t get the money to do that
    from their art, it won\u2019t be their day job.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's more quality
    writing being freely shared than I can consume in what's left of my lifetime,
    so who cares? Those who absolutely must express themselves will do so, they will
    find a way. And today, the costs of distribution are near zero so all you need
    to cover is the time it takes. Those who can't or won't or don't find a way can
    disappear for all the difference it will make to anybody.\r\nHalf the time I find
    the comments from readers at the NYTimes more insightful and better written than
    the articles themselves - written by those for whom it *is* a day job.\r\nI'm
    a musician with years of formal training. Nearly no musicians are or were ever
    able to make a living as musicians, it's a given. Didn't stop anybody. Didn't
    stop me. You don't get into it for money. And if you have to stop doing it, nobody
    misses you.\r\nI'm tired of hearing about this ideal world that never existed
    where everybody had a way to \"get paid\".\r\nThat's the real baloney.\r\n\r\nCheerfully,
    rich.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-12 05:07:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and the rich get richer...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-12 13:22:02'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I\u2019m tired of hearing about this ideal world that never existed
    where everybody had a way to \u201Cget paid\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat if we take
    the \"get paid\" out of the equation for a minute and focus on the concept of
    copyright as protecting the rights of a creator to <em>determine</em> (to some
    extent, anyway) the fate of their creation? \r\n\r\nWhat rights do you [anyone]
    think an author/artist/creator should have over the publication, reproduction,
    distribution, or manipulation of his/her creation(s)?\r\n\r\n[Seriously, just
    an open-ended question . . . ]"
  created: '2009-12-12 13:50:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJwyBmu-O-o '
  created: '2009-12-12 18:33:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What rights do you [anyone] think an author/artist/creator should have
    over the publication, reproduction, distribution, or manipulation of his/her creation(s)?\"\r\n\r\nDear
    Earl of Kent, My life I never held but as a pawn\r\nTo wage against thine pirates;
    nor fear to lose it,\r\nBut profit is fair motive for any man, pawn or king.\r\nIf
    I but draw breath from my labours, do I not deserve the right to draw type as
    well?\r\nShall my endeavor go stolen without a whisper from me only because there
    is long injustice in the world?\r\nWhen no other means of toil is expected to
    continue without payment,\r\nWhy then mine, singled out as worthless but because
    theft is easy and goes unpunished.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-13 00:30:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hermann Zapf, Adrian Frutiger, Matthew Carter, David Berlow, Robert Slimbach,
    Christian Schwartz, Jonathan Hoefler, Tobias Frere-Jones, Lucas de Groot, James
    Montalbano, Nick Shinn, John Hudson, Akira Kobayashi, and on and on. These are
    all full time type designers, paid for their labors, with a large number of types
    of excellent quality. \r\n\r\nRich, your seeming idea that this high quality type
    would have happened if they all could only afford to do type as a hobby, is just
    ridiculous. "
  created: '2009-12-13 01:43:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dezcom\r\nEvery time I get into one of these copyright discussions - which
    always lead nowhere - I think of the picture you've got up on Facebook from Vietnam.
    (No bull, I really do.)\r\nLuckily for me, Nixon ended the thing right before
    my number was coming up.\r\nIn light of the shit you and so many other guys endured,
    palpitations and protestations over who's going to buy my font and then, heaven
    forbid - subset it, convert it, stick it up their backside, whatever they're going
    to do with it is, in contrast, inconsequential garbage.\r\nActually, all I was
    trying to do was get a rise out of Phinney. He's so unflappable. (At least <em>I've</em>
    never seen him flap, have you?) Hah!\r\nBut hey, let's continue, 'cause it's fun...\r\n\r\n@william
    berkson\r\n<em>Rich, your seeming idea that this high quality type would have
    happened if they all could only afford to do type as a hobby, is just ridiculous.</em>\r\nMaybe
    so. Let's presume you're right. But if the trade-off for keeping John Hudson on
    full-time in a digital world is that I must accept invasions into my privacy and
    have *less* rights as a consumer of information than I did before distribution
    was digital, then John Hudson and the rest of the guys you mention can all become
    hobbyists as far as I'm concerned. I'll be fine. The world will be fine.\r\nYou've
    got your priorities, I've got mine. I'll take my chances.\r\n\r\n<em>What if we
    take the \u201Cget paid\u201D out of the equation for a minute and focus on the
    concept of copyright as protecting the rights of a creator to determine (to some
    extent, anyway) the fate of their creation?</em>\r\n\r\nAlright, I'll bite - a
    little. Besides, I still owe Bill Berkson at least one suggestion vis-a-vis copyright
    reform.\r\nThis thread has done so much bobbing and weaving already, what's a
    little more.\r\nBTW - I have two patents and a trademark obtained during my previous
    life in the fashion industry. I fully understand wanting to protect your baby.
    (It was a heat-sealing system that actually was licensed and marketed. And the
    one company besides my own that licensed the thing would never have done so if
    I hadn't had the patent. So I understand the value of IP. I'm no purist. I, too,
    will take my corporate welfare whenever I can get it.)\r\nAnd I do think proper
    attribution, at the very least, is a part of good online citizenship. It serves
    the creator and the people to whom you're recommending or redistributing the creation.
    Not giving credit is bad manners, period.\r\nI had a long discussion with somebody
    recently urging me to become familiar with \"open\" licensing in relation to the
    whole @font-face thing. And I've come to see his point: the legal realities being
    what they are, if you *do* want to keep some control over a work - even if it's
    to prevent somebody else from repackaging it and start charging money for it -
    you've got to take steps to clearly license it otherwise you can run into trouble
    exerting whatever claims you might have. If enforcement is an option, that is.
    And that's what really sticks in everybody's craw with digital distribution -
    enforcement is really impossible without imposing restraints on consumption that
    drive everybody to the free stuff that might not be \"high quality\" - however
    you define that - but at least it's free.\r\n\r\nHow about we start by protecting
    everyone's creations the same way we protect the creations of fashion designers
    and the great chefs of the world?\r\nWhere would that leave us? We don't seem
    to be at a loss for innovative clothing or having to endure ratty meals. Geez,
    look at all the cookbooks!\r\n\r\nHow does that strike you?"
  created: '2009-12-13 16:52:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if the trade-off for keeping John Hudson on full-time in a digital world
    is that I must accept invasions into my privacy and have *less* rights as a consumer
    of information than I did before distribution was digital...\r\n\r\nHow do you
    have any fewer rights as a consumer of information, if you have to pay for a digital
    font, as you did before for a material one--and by the way for much less cost?\r\n\r\nI
    just don't understand what you are so exercised about, and it must be something.
    \r\n\r\nAs for fashion and chefs, they can earn a living from selling something
    tangible, namely clothes and food. Since fonts are no longer tangible, but digital,
    font developers can't do that. \r\n\r\nAre you against any form of intellectual
    property? I mean against all copyright, trademark and patenting?\r\n\r\nI don't
    understand also what you mean by \"restraints on consumption\". The law currently
    restrains my consumption of apples by saying that if I snatch an apple from the
    grocer without paying, they will fine me or clap me in jail. How are intellectual
    property rights any more restricting?"
  created: '2009-12-13 17:19:51'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "thomas said:\r\n>   I basically agree with quadibloc \r\n>   and think BB\u2019s
    full of baloney.\r\n\r\nwell, you know, things could be much worse,\r\nif charles
    brock decided he didn't like me.    ;+)\r\n\r\n>   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJwyBmu-O-o\r\n\r\nthat
    kindle went up in a million pieces from\r\njust one swing of the baseball bat,
    didn't it?\r\n\r\n\r\n>   And to answer the rhetorical question posed to quad\r\n\r\nit
    wasn't a rhetorical question.  i don't know quad.\r\nperhaps he/she is a writer,
    or does know some writers.\r\n\r\ni know lots of writers, including many who make
    their\r\nliving from writing.  i even know some \"award-winners\".\r\n\r\ni also
    know lots of writers who don't make a penny\r\nfrom their writing.  i also know
    writers who _should_\r\nor _could_ be making a very good living by doing writing,\r\nexcept
    that's not how they decided to arrange their lives.\r\n\r\nand what i know, from
    knowing all of those writers, is that\r\nthe ones who are writing stuff that is
    worthwhile will do it\r\neven if they aren't paid to do it.  they do it because
    they\r\nlove it, or they do it in spite of the fact that they hate it,\r\nbut
    they do it, and they will continue to do it no matter what.\r\nthey do it because
    they cannot not do it.  it's that simple...\r\n\r\nand the ones who are writing
    just because it is \"a paycheck\"\r\naren't turning out anything worthwhile.  awards
    or not...\r\n\r\nnow, i'm not saying it's \"impossible\" to write well for cash.\r\ni
    come up against well-written stuff all the time that i expect\r\nwas written for
    cash.  \"how cute / are these boots\" is a rhyme\r\nfrom a target commercial i
    love -- it's chanted repeatedly\r\nby a bunch of kids stomping a stage -- and
    i presume that the\r\ncopywriter for that job was paid well.  and yet for all
    i know,\r\ns/he might hate it, and would quit in a minute if not paid.\r\n\r\nbut
    yeah, i'm willing to give up all the writing from people\r\nwho are writing just
    to get paid, and who'd stop otherwise...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I know a LOT of writers.
    The best man at my wedding has \r\n>   won more awards for his novels than I can
    keep track of.\r\n\r\nfirst, you didn't really say if he's _making_a_living_ at
    it.\r\n\r\nbut i assume that he'd keep writing even if he wasn't paid.\r\n\r\nhowever,
    all of that is really beside the point, isn't it?\r\n\r\nbecause we all _want_
    quality writers to be paid for writing;\r\nwe all want quality font-makers to
    be paid for making fonts,\r\nwe all want quality musicians to be paid for making
    music.\r\n\r\nso we have to put into place the mechanisms that allow that\r\nto
    happen.  we must build the infrastructure to make it so.\r\n\r\nd.r.m. is _not_
    that infrastructure, _not_ that mechanism.\r\nd.r.m. doesn't work; it just gums
    the machine unnecessarily.\r\n\r\nand the only way to make d.r.m. work, even if
    just half-assed,\r\nis to clamp down on \"intellectual property\" so hard we will\r\nall
    suffer, in countless ways.  and even then, the cost of\r\n\"enforcement\" will
    fritter away the cash we'd hoped to gain.\r\nthere are easier ways to decide who
    should get paid, and\r\nhow much.  as one example, you could look toward the model\r\non
    which b.m.i./a.s.c.a.p. is based.  (don't look at those\r\norganizations per se,
    but rather the model, because they're\r\nbureaucratic nightmares that rob artists
    rather than pay 'em.\r\nbut the transparency an open digital infrastructure could\r\nguarantee
    could ensure that kind of thievery didn't happen).\r\n\r\n_everyone_ wants to
    be paid for their intellectual property.\r\n\r\nfine.\r\n\r\nwe can make it happen,
    without d.r.m.  this false dichotomy,\r\nwhere d.r.m. is pitched as \"the answer\"
    for starving artists,\r\nneeds to be swept away so we face the problem intelligently.\r\n\r\nso
    anyway, thomas, there you go.  buy yourself some bread\r\nand you can have a baloney
    sandwich.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-15 03:43:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i see.  we want to engage with straw men.\r\n\r\nok, fine.\r\n\r\n\"death
    to copyright!\"\r\n\r\n\"information wants to be free!\"\r\n\r\n\"(intellectual)
    property is theft!\"\r\n\r\n\"stick it to the establishment!\"\r\n\r\n\"pirates
    have more fun!\"\r\n\r\nhave at it...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 10:17:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bill\r\n>I just don\u2019t understand what you are so exercised about, and
    it must be something.\r\n\r\nI'm not all that excercised. Just concerned - as
    are many, many others and for good reason. (I'm going to come back and post a
    couple of books I recommend. Good reads. One's free.)\r\nStrangely, as little
    as a year ago I was probably in the same place as I think Kent is, opinion-wise.
    I don't think I've done as big a turnaround on anything in my entire life - it's
    like a switch got flipped in my head. As ex-General Ariel Sharon put it questioned
    about his marked change in stance vis-a-vis Israelis and Palestinians, \"I can
    see things from over here that I couldn't see from over there.\" I guess it's
    a vantage point thing.\r\nA major reason I got involved in the fracas over web
    font formats was because I understand and still do understand the concern about
    posting raw TTF/OTF files on web sites. Thankfully, it bore fruit and now, in
    addition to EOT - which now looks something that will ultimately fade away -  there's
    WOFF, which is an arguably better format. I wanted talent like yours, Kent's,
    everybody's, working as freely as possible on typefaces for not only print, but
    screen.\r\nFonts are a peculiar specialty, really. Type designers are like the
    air traffic controllers of written language and I really don't want to fly knowing
    that less than the best are in the control tower. But I will if I have to. And
    I'll get by just fine. What choice does anybody have? We have to communicate and
    without typefaces, there are no written words.\r\nThere's still a lot of hesitation
    in the biz, but the more I think about where digital publishing is going the more
    I think things are going to be quite OK for type designers. We're in a transitional
    phase of a transformation that's unprecedented. Exciting but unsettling. When
    someone feels that their paycheck is on the line, waxing eloquent about the common
    good and a bright future doesn't get you far.\r\n(I just wanted to explain a little
    of where I'm coming from.)\r\nI think bb's mention of the ASCAP/BMI/Harry Fox
    nexus for collecting royalties in the sphere of music publishing might provide
    a model down the road.\r\n\r\nViva La Revoluci&oacute;n!"
  created: '2009-12-17 15:31:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> There\u2019s more quality writing being freely shared than I can consume
    in what\u2019s left of my lifetime, so who cares?\r\n\r\nThis strongly depends
    on the <em>kind</em> of quality writing you're looking for. Yes, people do write
    quality serious fiction without being paid. And there are also textbooks on many
    subjects that have fallen into the public domain, or which are written under versions
    of the GPL.\r\n\r\nIt is, however, also true that there are other kinds of book
    which take enough effort of an uninteresting kind to write that people who have
    a requirement for those kinds of books do expect to have to pay for them. Those
    books need an appropriate distribution system, and for them, paper is still best."
  created: '2009-12-17 16:12:32'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I can't believe this thread is still going. \r\n\r\nI was just reading Metropolis
    magazine and realized it's about half the size it used to be. While text on paper
    isn't dead... yet... the pages sure are getting fewer, thinner and smaller.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 16:27:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bluestreak said:\r\n>   I can\u2019t believe this thread is still going.\r\n\r\nyes,
    long after print has been rushed to the hospital,\r\ndeclared dead on arrival,
    buried, mourned, and then\r\nforgotten, this thread will still be chugging along...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  the pages sure are getting fewer, thinner and smaller.\r\n\r\ni was handed
    a copy of \"time\" magazine the other day,\r\nafter not having picked one up in
    a couple of years,\r\nand it's not overstatement to say that i was _shocked_\r\nbecause
    it was so thin.  it felt truly puny in my hand.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-19 00:46:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I think \"magazine\" has become a misnomer. (Should look up the etymology
    of that one. If someone says, \"Hand me the magazine\" are they talking about
    reading material or ammunition?)\r\nA \"pamphlet\" is more like what it is these
    days.\r\n\r\nVogue is still hefty, though."
  created: '2009-12-19 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am having fond memories of old LIFE magazine in folio--large pages, big
    black and white photos.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-19 15:10:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Vogue is still hefty, though.</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck out V. It\u2019s
    like Vogue, but even bigger and smarter. I do think that we\u2019ll soon see a
    return to larger formats as magazine editors and designers look for ways to compete
    with the web. Even when a carbon-nanofiber and OLED/eInk 11x17 screen can run
    of your own body\u2019s electrical discharge and weighs only a few ounces it still
    won\u2019t compare to an 11x17 gravure-printed fashion mag. How much more likely
    would you be to pick up a design annual in that format instead of the crap we
    get now? Of course this doesn\u2019t work for, say, the New Yorker, but it would
    be great for anything that rides on visuals."
  created: '2009-12-19 15:54:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Remember U&lc?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-19 16:41:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Since reaching the age of being able to carry it all, as a New York City
    kid, every Sunday morning I went out to pick up bagels and the Sunday New York
    Times.\r\nI shudder to think of what the Sunday NYTimes magazine section now weighs
    in at. Even in December. You can't help but get nostalgic.\r\n\r\nBut on the other
    hand, I now get the contents delivered for free onscreen in Florida!"
  created: '2009-12-24 16:10:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i suggest we make it a new year's resolution\r\nnot to post any more to this
    particular thread.\r\n\r\nbut while there's still some time...         ;+)\r\n\r\ni
    can't help but notice that thomas phinney\r\nnever did respond on whether his
    best man\r\nactually makes a living from his writing --\r\nhis _award-winning_
    writing, for the record\r\n-- because that would seem to have bearing\r\non the
    thread, would it not?\r\n\r\nsince -- in my experience -- award-winning\r\nwriting
    is the very type of stuff that is _not_\r\nall that salable in the marketplace
    (if it even\r\nmanages to make it to the marketplace in the\r\nfirst place), i'm
    guessing that that best man is\r\npulling his paychecks out of academia instead.\r\nprobably
    by teaching even more writers how to\r\nnot make a living off their writing...
    \ ironically...\r\n\r\nand this brings me to my much bigger point...\r\n\r\nwhich
    is that _copyright_ doesn't really \"protect\"\r\nindividual artists all that
    much, precisely because\r\n_copyright_ is the first thing that the corporations\r\nhave
    you _sign_over_ to them when they sign you.\r\n\r\ncorporations are the big beneficiaries
    of copyright.\r\n\r\nyou'll also notice that the legal system rules that\r\nemployers
    own the rights to intellectual property\r\ncreated by their employees, even when
    the work\r\nwas done offsite, in their own time, in areas that\r\nare only vaguely
    related to the employee's job...\r\nlike the work thomas did while he was at adobe.\r\n\r\nnone
    of this will surprise anyone, though, since\r\nthe law always sides with the rich
    and powerful.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 01:21:46'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nOK. I promise not to post after the New Year. But it has
    to be unanimous. If anybody else posts, I'm back. ;)\r\n\r\n@william berkson\r\n\r\nI
    promised you a couple of book recommendations regarding copyright issues.\r\nI
    would suggest James Boyle's very recent <strong>The Public Domain: Enclosing The
    Commons Of The Mind</strong>\r\nIt was just named Book of the Year by the American
    Society for Information Science and Technology. (Oy, more awards, the financial
    kiss of death!)\r\nIt's available for free as a PDF and a raw HTML version at:\r\nhttp://www.thepublicdomain.org/\r\nAnd
    also at Feedbooks.com where, also for free, you can get it formatted to fit a
    variety of e-reading devices. It's also for sale at a modest price from Amazon.\r\nOf
    earlier vintage is Jessica Litman's <strong>Digital Copyright</strong> written
    in 2001. The great thing about Litman's book is that, because it was written in
    2001, we sort of know, as readers, how the story ends and whether or not Litman's
    predictions come true. But it covers all the conundrums that copyright law has
    us still struggling with today.\r\nBoth beautifully written books - really good
    reads - and Boyle's book even has one of the best little bits of musicology, of
    all things, that I've ever read.\r\n(Boyle and Litman don't write in the tortured
    prose of the lectern like so many academics do. It's the straight-to-the-point
    talk of the private tutorial. Don't get me started!)\r\nAnyway, if you read these
    books with an open mind and then come back to me and say something akin to, \"So?
    I still really don't see any problems.\" You're either a schmuck (and you're certainly
    not that) or myopically blinded by self-interest, Mr. Fancy-Pants type designer.\r\n\r\nSo
    there.\r\n\r\nHappy New Year To All!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 05:11:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Rich, I''ve downloaded it and will have a look. '
  created: '2009-12-28 13:29:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/12/28/business/media/28paywall.html?_r=1|On
    the other hand...]]'
  created: '2009-12-28 15:47:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bill\r\n\r\nGlanced at the article. Been tried before. The problem is -
    once you start charging money - no matter how little - the eyeballs go elsewhere.\r\nI
    take no delight in it. It's just the way it is.\r\nSome years ago, the NYTimes
    put some premium content like the Opinions section behind a firewall and asked
    for, I think, $60 a year.\r\nI paid. I needed my daily fix.\r\nAbout a year later,
    they suspended the program and I got a refund.\r\nGood luck to Rupert M. and his
    search engine that's going to \"scour\" the web looking for ripped-off news items.\r\n\r\nOn
    yet another hand, I hope this is a trend:\r\n<a href=\"http://tech.mit.edu/V129/N14/open_access.html\">MIT
    Will Publish All Faculty Articles Free In Online Repository</a>\r\nThe MIT faculty
    voted unanimously to do this.\r\n\r\nKudos to MIT. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 17:28:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hey, Rich this is a test. Will it happen, won't it happen? I'm betting yes,
    before all the newspapers go broke from the wonders of free distribution, which
    is soon. Want to bet a dinner at a type conference that the New York Times will
    be charging to see some content by summer 2011? \r\n\r\nCome to think of it, I
    wouldn't be surprised if local papers went into a syndicate with big papers like
    the Washington Post, New York Times, etc., and share revenue on their local coverage--you
    sign up for the Post or Times and get your local news also, right down to the
    neighborhood. \r\n\r\nMakes sense to me. Probably not to you :)  "
  created: '2009-12-28 18:26:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "you can force some people to pay for some content\r\nin advance.\r\n\r\nwhether
    you can force _enough_ people to pay for\r\n_your_ content (whatever that might
    happen to be)\r\nto make it worthwhile to enact the infrastructure\r\nneeded to
    process the payment transaction is yet\r\nanother question.\r\n\r\nit's worth
    mentioning, however, that people _will_\r\ngladly volunteer payment-after-the-fact
    for content\r\nfreely provided to them in a gift-exchange modality.\r\n\r\nif
    people love your content, they will find a way to\r\nreward you for it...  this
    is the path of the future...\r\n\r\nand, back on topic, the future of the book
    _is_ digital.\r\nhowever, people will still print-on-demand the books\r\nthat
    we love, to have a physical manifestation of them,\r\nthe same way we get reprints
    of digital photos we love\r\nso we have something to frame and put on the mantle.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 22:44:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">if people love your content, they will find a way to reward you for it...
    this is the path of the future...\r\n\r\nlol. if people love your content, they
    will find a way to make other people think it's their's.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-31 13:09:16'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "david said:\r\n>   lol. if people love your content, \r\n>   they will find
    a way to \r\n>   make other people think it\u2019s their\u2019s.\r\n\r\nthey can
    try, but since you put your stuff\r\nout, at zero cost, for public consumption\r\n--
    which is how _they_ got a hold of it --\r\ntimestamps make its origin perfectly
    clear.\r\n\r\nspeaking of timestamps, no posts here\r\nafter midnight, server-time.
    \ _or_else..._     :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 20:11:06'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: ">speaking of timestamps, no posts here after midnight...\r\n\r\nHappy New
    Year!\r\n\r\nI'm posting just to see what kind of \"or else\" punishment bowerbird
    imposes. 'Cause that's what I want to fire back at the bird for continuing the
    annoying short line breaks that causes my scroll finger to cramp."
  created: '2010-01-01 16:14:54'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Strictly on topic though. Think of all of the heavy manuals that Apple, Adobe,
    etc. used to send with software. We haven't seen any of those books printed on
    paper for a long time.
  created: '2010-01-01 16:16:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bluestreak said:\r\n>   Think of all of the heavy manuals that \r\n>   Apple,
    Adobe, etc. used to send with software. \r\n>   We haven\u2019t seen any of those
    books \r\n>   printed on paper for a long time.\r\n\r\nsure we have.  it's called
    \"the missing manual\" series, and\r\nyou can find a wide array of exemplars at
    any bookstore...\r\n\r\nbut your point is well-taken.  at some time in the future,\r\nthe
    corporate publishers will find that it no longer makes\r\nfinancial sense to do
    large print-runs, and they will simply\r\nstop doing them, at a speed that will
    snap your head back.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  the \"or else\" punishment
    for prolonging this thread is\r\nsocial disapprobation.  and no, i can't feel
    it either.     :+)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 20:34:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@BlueStreak\r\n\r\nYou broke the magic spell and now we're all doomed to
    spend all eternity arguing over nonsense on this thread.\r\nOh, well...\r\n\r\n@bill\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    I was going to take you to dinner at TypeCon 2010 in LA, in any event.\r\n\r\n<em>Come
    to think of it, I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if local papers went into a syndicate
    with big papers like the Washington Post, New York Times, etc., and share revenue
    on their local coverage\u2014you sign up for the Post or Times and get your local
    news also, right down to the neighborhood.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's not that this doesn't
    make sense to me. It does - the question is whether those pesky readers/customers
    will go along with it. They're the ones who pay the freight. \r\nThe newspapers
    - like a lot of us, me included - are at the end of their rope. The attitude might
    be, \"Well, if we lose a lot of readers (and advertising revenue), so be it. At
    least we're going down fighting.\" I hope it doesn't come down to that, but it
    might and they have every right to try.\r\n\r\nI no longer know what's good for
    making money anymore. I don't know what to advise younger people to do - do you?\r\n\r\nSomethin's
    goin' on here but I don't know what it is...(add Dylan's nasal whine here) do
    YOOOOOOOU, Mister Jones?\r\n\r\nHave you noticed that there's really no such thing
    thing as a \"popular song\" anymore. You know, the kind that streams out of every
    other car window and that everybody knows - everybody from 5 years old on up to
    Grandma? \r\nThe kind of mass culture you and I grew up with seems like it's on
    its way out. What's coming, who knows.\r\nEverybody's got a different level of
    tolerance for chaos. Mine is high, thankfully. There's so much of it, now.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-01-02 20:40:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are OK if you have \"your brand new Leopard skin pill box hat\", Richard.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-02 21:38:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> the question is whether those pesky readers/customers will go along with
    it.\r\n> They\u2019re the ones who pay the freight.\r\n> The newspapers - like
    a lot of us, me included - are at the end of their rope.\r\n\r\nRichard,\r\n\r\nGood
    Morning! Rise and shine!  Do you think that the New York Times, for example, is
    just the paper? \r\n\r\nThe NYT Holdings (just part of the list!):\r\n\r\n= The
    Star-News\r\n= The News Chief\r\n= International Herald Tribune\r\n= The Boston
    Globe\r\n= The Gainesville Sun\r\n= The Gadsden Times\r\n= The Courier\r\n= Star-Banner\r\n=
    North Bay Business Journal\r\n= The Dispatch\r\n= Sarasota Herald-Tribune\r\n.....\r\n\r\n=
    Baseline Studio Systems\r\n= About Group (about.com)\r\n= UCompareHealthCare\r\n=
    ConsumerSearch\r\n\r\n\r\nMore? \r\n\r\n\r\n> About a year later, they [The New
    York Times]  suspended the program \r\n> and I got a refund.\r\n> Good luck to
    Rupert M. and his search engine that\u2019s going to \u201Cscour\u201D the web
    \r\n> looking for ripped-off news items.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe NYT is Arthur O. Sulzberger,
    Jr. not Rupert Murdoch! You need a lesson Who's Who ASAP! :) \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 01:48:34'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   The NYT Holdings (just part of the list!):\r\n>   = The Star-News\r\n>
    \  = The News Chief\r\n>   = International Herald Tribune\r\n>   = The Boston
    Globe\r\n>   = The Gainesville Sun\r\n>   = The Gadsden Times\r\n>   = The Courier\r\n>
    \  = Star-Banner\r\n>   = North Bay Business Journal\r\n>   = The Dispatch\r\n>
    \  = Sarasota Herald-Tribune\r\n\r\nwhy does this remind me of the recent financial
    fallout?\r\n\r\nmaybe it goes like this:  \"ok, any one of these papers\r\nmight
    go bust, but surely _all_ of them won't go bust,\r\nand certainly not all at about
    the same time, right?\"\r\n\r\nlook, if you wrap up a bunch of bad loans in a
    package,\r\nthe package doesn't automatically become a safer bet...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 08:12:22'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>Richard Fink wrote: \"You broke the magic spell and now we\u2019re all
    doomed to spend all eternity arguing over nonsense on this thread.</em>\r\n\r\nEh,
    we got nothing better to do anyway. \r\n\r\nI read, or skimmed, my Sunday paper
    just a few minutes ago and commented to the wife that the content has become so
    sparse that it's a waste of time. I used to spend all Sunday morning reading the
    paper. Now I'm done in twenty minutes or so. We also commented that their cuts
    to content have forced us online to find other sources for that news which leads
    to discovering other online content that we were unaware of before being forced
    to hunt. In my opinion the newspapers are their own worst enemies by not understanding
    their audience or how to provide the content that people want delivered to their
    doorstep with ink on paper.\r\n\r\nAnd bowerbird, I hereby consider myself socially
    disapproved."
  created: '2010-01-03 16:33:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "bluestreak said:\r\n>   And bowerbird, I hereby consider myself \r\n>   socially
    disapproved.\r\n\r\ni hereby consider myself socially disapproved too!      :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 22:36:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david hamuel\r\n\r\n> About a year later, they [The New York Times] suspended
    the program\r\n> and I got a refund.\r\n> Good luck to Rupert M. and his search
    engine that\u2019s going to \u201Cscour\u201D the web\r\n\r\nRelax. These two
    sentences are adjacent, but unrelated.\r\nThe reference to Murdoch was in response
    to William Berkson's link to a story about newspapers weighing the possiblity
    of charging for content and Murdoch was quoted about some magic web search spider
    that was going to find the content taken from Murdoch's news sites so they can
    take action against those sites.\r\nI'm assuming the cost of doing this will be
    folded into the fee Murdoch intends to charge us. ;)\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 14:39:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: 'This appeared on my FB feed from a friend: (it may already be here, I haven''t
    really been following this thread very closely) [[http://vimeo.com/8217311|Mag+:
    reading magazines on digital devices]].'
  created: '2010-01-04 17:04:34'
- author:
    name: lucascobb
    picture: 118709
  body: "You know I tend to swing both ways on this topic. The e-book readers are
    easy on the eyes and compact and convenient and much less wasteful than printed
    books. Yet you lose the smell of an old book worn from being read time after time.
    There is no sentimental value in an e-book reader. \r\n\r\n...................\r\n<a
    href=\"http://lucascobb.com\">Get My Fonts Under Freebies</a>"
  created: '2010-01-04 22:11:26'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   There is no sentimental value in an e-book reader.\r\n\r\npeople attach
    \"sentimental value\" to all types of objects.\r\n\r\nincluding, i am quite sure,
    e-book reader-machines...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 20:21:26'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>people attach \u201Csentimental value\u201D to all
    types of objects.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough this is very true, the differences between
    books are much bigger than the differences between ebook devices; not only because
    the material lives and dies (!) differently, but simply for the fact, that there
    are millions of printed books, but a few ebook devices only. Well, the sentimental
    value is primary dependent from the subject, but not from the object. But I assume,
    that it is easier to sentimentally value a woman, if women look, taste and smell
    differently.\r\n\r\n@ lucascobb\r\n\r\n<cite>The e-book readers are easy on the
    eyes</cite>\r\n\r\nIf this would be (already) true, many threads here, in which
    typophile one-unit-movers discuss about the outlines of glyphs, would be not more
    than a monstrous joke! If there would come an genetic defect, that all women make
    look like cockroaches (lol, English can be so funny!), the woman, that is actually
    the most ugliest, would be the most beautiful in future. Except another genetic
    defect parallel changes the flavour of men. And I think, that many printed books
    are so badly made, that ebook devices give the illusion, that they are easy on
    the eyes, simply for the fact, that you miss the comparison to printed books,
    that are easier on the eyes. I only wonder, if printed books will be made worse
    with intention for pushing the ebook market."
  created: '2010-01-09 12:25:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\n<em>If this would be (already) true, many threads here, in which
    typophile one-unit-movers discuss about the outlines of glyphs, would be not more
    than a monstrous joke!</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's a one-unit-mover?\r\n\r\nAlso, if you
    do a little googling about the panoply of e-reading devices that were on display
    at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, you will get an idea of how much
    more readable E-Paper displays are as opposed to backlit displays.\r\nE-Readers
    have exploded as a category.\r\nStrangely - or perhaps not so strangely - few
    products have web browsers installed.\r\n(You know, the web, where all that free
    stuff you can read is.)\r\n\r\nAnd the format and copyright wars are on!\r\n\r\nbowerbird
    - where's it all going? any trends?"
  created: '2010-01-13 23:34:13'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Richard\r\n\r\nAccording to Wikipedia an one-unit-mover is a typophile
    who is not contented with the design of his glyphs, because the stroke width is
    one unit to small. So the typophile decides to move a node by one unit.\r\n\r\nBut
    one unit more or less \u2013 even a high resolution printer cannot solve it in
    body text sizes. And for sure not an ebook device. So the sense of many discussions
    here is questionable in my opinion, because the reason for them would be pure
    aesthetics (visible in big sizes), but not legibility. In fact I think, that there
    is a hand full of fonts only, that are highly legible (round about 0.005%), because
    most font families miss optical styles or are made for big point sizes.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    take me more seriously than I do, please. I am just an amateur. And maybe there
    is a necessity to make thin, highly contrasted and highly detailed body text fonts."
  created: '2010-01-14 08:18:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\nI had constructed my own humorous, scatological definition of a
    \"one unit mover\" and now you've gone and burst my bubble!\r\nBut it seems I
    wasn't far off - at a UPM of 2048 fussing over moves of one-unit seems a bit nit-pickishly
    anal retentive. However, if I ever actually design a typeface (unlikely) or more
    probably edit an existing one, I will be a one unit mover.\r\nI just can't help
    nudging things a little bit that way, a little bit this way.\r\nUnlike programming
    where, once you have a solid solution, that's it, you're done,\r\ntype design
    and typesetting seems to be one of those things where it's never, ever exactly
    right despite endless fussing but you just have to move on at some point."
  created: '2010-01-14 14:29:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"According to Wikipedia an one-unit-mover is a typophile who is not contented
    with the design of his glyphs, because the stroke width is one unit to small.
    So the typophile decides to move a node by one unit.\"\r\n\r\nI plead guilty as
    charged, your honor :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-14 17:05:46'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: After spending some time reading this thread (which, after a quick test, would
    consume nearly 100 pages of dead trees) I am more convinced that ever that reading
    products that are created by chopping down trees and driving them around on trucks
    are not long for this world. Why? All the time you would have spent reading the
    paper is spent reading things like this.
  created: '2010-01-14 18:21:31'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'FWIW: One unit can make a big difference at low resolutions. Depending on
    how you do your hinting, 1/2048th of an em can make a 1 pixel stem into 2. The
    metaphor extends back into the conversation. Changes made right now will be magnified
    for years to come. We are at an inflection point.'
  created: '2010-01-14 18:32:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>But it seems I wasn't far off - at a UPM of 2048 fussing over moves
    of one-unit seems a bit nit-pickishly anal retentive. However, if I ever actually
    design a typeface (unlikely) or more probably edit an existing one, I will be
    a one unit mover.</em>\r\n\r\nI've now worked on two projects in which we settled
    on a UPM of 4096, because the 2048 grid didn't provide for fine enough adjustments.
    These were both display types with fine features, so one would expect them to
    be used at larger sizes at which the construction of these details would be visible,
    but the other aspect of the design in which \u2018fussing\u2019 over single unit
    movements is important is in relative weight of thin strokes. Rather than thinking
    about the single unit movement relative to the UPM, you should think about the
    single unit movement relative to two thin strokes, one horizontal and one vertical:
    suddenly that single unit makes the difference between these strokes being optically
    balanced or not.\r\n\r\nI remember many years ago listening sympathetically to
    Luc(as) de Groot's complaints about the difficulty of designing a super-lightweight
    sans on a UPM of 1000. If the stems were on average 20 units wide, a shift of
    a single unit represented a 5% difference in stem weight, and that's much too
    big a jump when trying to optically balance horizontal and vertical stems. Again,
    in design what matters is not the distance of a move relative to the UPM size,
    but the distance relative to other distances.\r\n\r\nType design is an excellent
    example of Marx's principle that cumulative quantitative changes result in qualitative
    change. :)"
  created: '2010-01-14 20:47:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My first attempt at a hairline sans (NOW Gaunt) had a stroke weight of 18
    units. Balancing horizontal to vertical was bad enough at 1000 UPM but joining
    curves with such limited selection of vector points was downright painful! I finally
    gave up and switched to 2048 which was at least somewhat tollerable.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-14 20:57:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christian said:\r\n>   I am more convinced that ever that \r\n>   reading
    products that are created by \r\n>   chopping down trees and \r\n>   driving them
    around on trucks \r\n>   are not long for this world. Why? \r\n>   All the time
    you would have spent \r\n>   reading the paper is spent \r\n>   reading things
    like this.\r\n\r\nright.  because cyberspace is interactive.\r\nwhile print is
    yesterday's (dated) news...\r\n\r\npeople like to talk to each other.  they do.\r\n\r\nthey'd
    rather do that than read the news.\r\nor read a celebrity tell-all.  or watch
    t.v.\r\n\r\nof course, if they can have the t.v. news\r\nrelate high points from
    a celebrity tell-all,\r\nthey'd probably rather watch _that_, but\r\nthey will
    still come online to talk about it.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nrichard said:\r\n>   bowerbird
    - where's it all going? any trends?\r\n\r\noh, there are lots of trends.  including
    all those\r\ne-reader-machines at c.e.s. that you mentioned.\r\n\r\nbut none of
    'em are going anywhere.  or perhaps\r\ni should say all of them are going nowhere,
    fast...\r\n\r\nthe reader-machine isn't anything without a solid\r\ncontent-base
    attached to it, and only amazon and\r\nbarnes&noble have such machines.  (and
    it's unclear\r\nwhether barnes&noble can make their machine work,\r\n_or_ if they
    can stomach the price-war with amazon.)\r\n\r\nbut no one will really know anything
    until apple moves.\r\n\r\ntheir tablet will reshape the world of possibilities,
    but\r\nuntil they unveil it (and probably even for a year after,\r\nwhile we come
    up to speed), we don't really have a clue.\r\n\r\nwhich is not to say that we
    can't judge the current crop\r\nof reader-software, because it's patently obvious
    that\r\nit's all crap.  nothing is even close to state-of-the-art.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 08:51:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson and Christian Robertson:\r\n\r\nI've spent enough time on Typophile
    to sense, usually, when something I write - if it's technically inaccurate - is
    going to prompt a response among those who know vastly more than I, technically.\r\nI
    wasn't disappointed.\r\n\r\nThanks for the info on the potential effects of moving
    by one unit. Not so nit-picky a thing after all.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 15:47:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\nDon't buy that Apple's tablet is going to be some great
    revelation and dividing point like the iPhone. It's a freaking tablet PC, not
    the Messiah.\r\nHowever, as I noted earlier, almost all the devices offer an \"out
    of browser experience\". How do you market something that leaves the web out of
    the mix?\r\n\r\nWhereas, I take it as a given that the iTablet, or whatever it's
    called is going to have Safari on it with 3G web connectivity built in.\r\n\r\nI'm
    also very interested to see the quality of the text rendering on a larger backlit
    LCD like the iPhone.\r\nMy eyesight just isn't up to small-screen devices. Even
    though text rendering on my iPhone is very, very sharp and clear. It might be
    an age thing. Both eyesight and the habits formed by years of reading from \"pages\".\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-01-16 16:03:47'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   Don't buy that Apple's tablet is going to be \r\n>   some
    great revelation and dividing point \r\n>   like the iPhone. It's a freaking tablet
    PC, \r\n>   not the Messiah.\r\n\r\num...\r\n\r\nif it's _not_ a \"great revelation
    and dividing point\",\r\nlike the iphone and ipod were, apple won't do it...\r\n\r\n(and,
    lest i be confused with rumor-mongers that\r\ni hate, apple has not yet even announced
    a tablet,\r\nand it's important to remind ourselves of that fact.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  How do you market something that \r\n>   leaves the web out of the mix?\r\n\r\nyou
    make an asset out of that liability.  or try to...\r\nin this case, it's \"your
    reading won't be distracted.\"\r\n\r\nwhether that marketing _works_ or not...
    \ that is a\r\ndifferent question entirely.  since i believe there are\r\na lot
    more people who want web browsing even if\r\nweb browsing is a \"distraction\"
    from their reading,\r\ni'm inclined to think such marketing will not work.\r\n\r\nwhen
    i add in the other things an apple tablet will\r\nenable -- including a myriad
    of stuff that we have\r\nnot even thought of -- i think the choice is clear...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I take it as a given that the iTablet, or whatever \r\n>   it's called is going
    to have Safari on it \r\n>   with 3G web connectivity built in.\r\n\r\n3g seems
    like a safe bet, but even still, i've learned\r\nnot to assume or speculate about
    what apple will do.\r\nmost of the time, you're wrong, and even if you are\r\nright,
    there's no payoff, usually because you didn't\r\nunderstand the consequences of
    the choices made.\r\n\r\noften times even apple itself gets wildly surprised...\r\nfor
    instance, they had no idea the app store would\r\nget huge with crazy and imaginative
    stuff that gave\r\ncustomers added value for their iphone purchase...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  I'm also very interested to see the quality of the \r\n>   text rendering on
    a larger backlit LCD like the iPhone.\r\n\r\nagain, it's unwise to assume that
    apple will use an l.c.d.\r\nthey might, or they might not.  or some models might,\r\nand
    other models might use o.l.e.d.  or a pixel qi screen.\r\n(i've got the original
    o.l.p.c. machine, which used the\r\npixel qi screen, and it's a fascinating combination
    of\r\ntechnologies that enable both inside and outside use.)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 19:55:50'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "<cite>Type design is an excellent example of Marx's principle that cumulative
    quantitative changes result in qualitative change. :)</cite>\r\nThat's a good
    one!"
  created: '2010-01-31 03:55:23'
date: '2009-10-17 12:23:01'
node_type: forum
title: Is the future of the book digital?

---
