---
author:
  name: rosem
body: "Hey,\r\n\r\nI'm looking to get some feedback on a personal \"business card\"
  I'm working on. Basically I'm rebranding myself online from rosem to mikerooooose
  which matches my facebook, twitter, flickr, etc... I also own mikerooooose.com which
  will host my portfolio. Also, since this is such a unique name, I'm sure I'll be
  the only one coming up in a google search.\r\n\r\nSo with all of this in mind, I
  was thinking they only really need to remember the mikerooooose part, and they should
  be able to find me in some fashion, either online, facebook, twitter, etc... I also
  have my phone number on the back for a quick phone call or text.\r\n\r\nAs for the
  style, I'm trying to keep it as simple as possible. I would say my style is very
  geometric, precise, maybe mathematical? functional, to the point, etc... so I drew
  up these monospace letters in my moleskin grid. I was thinking of showing the grid
  on the business card, but that might be too much. Anyway, have a look:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rosem.com/work/mikerooooose_bcard/\r\n\r\nLet
  me know what you think. Not a good idea? good idea?\r\n\r\nI'm not sure on paper,
  inks, etc... yet \u2014 just trying to figure this out in b&w first. Although I'm
  thinking gold foil for the type. :)\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nMike"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Goooood luck with people remembering exactly how many \"o\"s are in there!
    ;-)\r\n\r\nThat said, I like the concept and the execution.\r\nKeep the grid visible.
    And I don't think the gold foil is such a good idea.\r\n\r\n(have you thought
    to use something like mikero5e?)\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-25 20:33:19'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "well I own mikerooose (3), mikeroooose (4), mikeroooooose (6), mikerooooooose
    (7), which will remind and redirect, just incase \u2014 but I don't think counting
    up O's will be that confusing \u2014 maybe though. I guess I'm putting a lot of
    faith in browser history's, delicioius, etc... if all else fails they have my
    phone number :)\r\n\r\nI was thinking about putting small numbers in each O to
    number them, so you can easily see that there is five, but I don't want to put
    much emphasis on the 5, as there is no real meaning to it other to be unique.\r\n\r\nthe
    problem I have with the mikero5e is now the 5 has lost all meaning \u2014 plus
    it's not that unique. I guess I like the \"randomness\" to the name, as it's like
    creating a username for google. if someone were to search for mikerooooose on
    google, all search results would probably be for me \u2014 including this posts.
    I like the idea of client being able to get the full scoop on me, either through
    my website, twitter, facebook, google, etc... and how it's all easily connected
    through one username (mikerooooose).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-25 21:02:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "1. On the name, I agree with ricard0. How many O's are there? Or are those
    zeroes?\r\n\r\n2. \"<em>\u2026gold foil for the type\u2026</em>\" \u2260 \"<em>\u2026my
    style is very geometric, precise, maybe mathematical? functional, to the point,
    etc\u2026</em>\" \u2014 unless you're going for funny/ironic.\r\n\r\n3. If you're
    going functional, minimal, geometric &c, why not just use a sans like Futura?
    While the graph paper is a nice bit of visual rhetoric, it ultimately makes the
    type harder to read and the purpose of a card, in my opinion, is most importantly
    to facilitate communication between yourself and others. Graph paper is likely
    to make people think math or architect. The monospaced font and structure arriving
    from the use of a graph paper does speak in somewhat of a structuralist tone of
    voice, but may be a bit heavy handed. It's obvious that a grid is in place  without
    the lines.\r\n\r\n4. Printing on both sides makes getting at the information harder
    and more expensive. I would only recommend people use both sides when they really
    need the space, like a bilingual Canadian government card.\r\n\r\nHowever, design
    decisions should be based upon fitness for purpose; Who are your current/potential
    clients? How do you want to be perceived? What type (pun intended) of service
    do you offer? Are you expensive? Environmentally conscious? Political? With answers
    to these sort of directed questions, you'll find that most of your design decisions
    make themselves and we're not left taking random shots across the bow until our
    clients say \"I like that one.\" This is significantly easier than guesswork,
    and results in a far more efficient consumption of both yours and your client's
    resources.\r\n\r\n(I also have a few graph-paper Moleskins. See if you can find
    the one with double thick stock. It's beautiful)."
  created: '2009-10-25 21:48:08'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> (have you thought to use something like mikero5e?)\r\n\r\nHave you thought
    about using mikerooooo5e ? as in \"five-Os\""
  created: '2009-10-25 23:47:07'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "yeah, but then I run into the problem of people confusing \"S\" with \"5\"
    or vice-versa.\r\n\r\nI should add that I originally choose 5 over 4 because there
    are 5 fingers on a hand \u2014 and I thought that would be the easiest way to
    remember.\r\n\r\nbut... it's really more of a novelty than anything \u2014\_I
    mean for the most part business cards are pretty worthless \u2014 if you have
    an online presence. it's whole purpose is for people to remember my \"username\"
    the next time they are online. it's really only a one time deal once they add
    me to twitter, facebook, go to my website etc..."
  created: '2009-10-26 00:58:34'
- author:
    name: rampageraptor
    picture: 118101
  body: "I like the idea. I can see how rooooose would stick with someone. The number
    of o's may be a little confusing, but like you said, people use their history
    a lot. I don't know if I'd go with any more than five; that seems like enough
    to make it memorable, but not so few that one thinks \"did the 'o' key get stuck?\"\r\n\r\nI
    especially like the card with the grid. One sees too many blank white 'simple'
    business cards these days. The font is good too.\r\n\r\nR//R\r\nhttp://web.me.com/kyleleitch"
  created: '2009-10-26 06:56:38'
- author:
    name: CGI
    picture: 118291
  body: Perhaps you should purchase additional domains of varying o-length and make
    them all redirect to your site so that you cover every contingency.
  created: '2009-10-26 09:12:42'
- author:
    name: Setsolid
    picture: 118011
  body: I think that the grid structure is great, you are very fortunate to only have
    to include a name and a phone contact. I have never designed a card with so little
    on it. Email contact should be there though surely?
  created: '2009-10-26 11:01:22'
- author:
    name: rampageraptor
    picture: 118101
  body: "Well, not necessarily. I'm working on a business card project for someone
    who only wants their name and phone number provided as they don't even have an
    email address (I know, right?). If that's his preferred method of contact, then
    why not? :)\r\n\r\nR//R\r\nhttp://web.me.com/kyleleitch"
  created: '2009-10-26 18:45:18'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "@CGI \u2014 yes, I own mikerooose, mikeroooose, mikeroooooose, and mikerooooooose
    as well. basically I have room for a two O error of margin on each side. :)\r\n\r\ngood
    points, I did put \"business card\" in quotes though in the title. I really think
    that in 2009, business cards are pretty worthless. I can't remember the last time
    I dug through my business cards to find someone's contact information. Google,
    Twitter, Facebook, Websites, Email, etc... are all quicker.\r\n\r\nthis card is
    basically just to get people to remember my username \u2014 I could write it down
    for people, or have them type it into their phone while I talk to them \u2014
    this just seems a little bit more elegant, and might sit on their desk for few
    days. basically with this card I'm looking for a facebook/twitter add, a google
    search to my website (maybe they'll type it in directly). basically if they remember
    \"mikeroooose\" stuck in their head \u2014 they'll be able to get a hold of me.\r\n\r\nall
    that said, I'm leaning towards this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mikerooooose_102609_3641.jpg]\r\n\r\nno
    phone number or grid, just the name \u2014 as that's all they need \u2014 no reason
    to complicate it :)"
  created: '2009-10-26 19:21:18'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "this post is already showing up for \"mikerooooose\" \u2014 this is the kind
    of stuff I want clients to see when they google me. I'm assuming after a while
    the whole first page will be my website, facebook, twitter, flickr, random posts,
    comments, etc...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?client=safari&rls=en&q=mikerooooose&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8"
  created: '2009-10-26 19:25:12'
- author:
    name: rampageraptor
    picture: 118101
  body: "You have a good point... Business cards for information purposes are kind
    of obsolete at this point, but I'd say they're still very much a part of the first
    impression.\r\n\r\nR//R\r\nhttp://web.me.com/kyleleitch"
  created: '2009-10-26 20:25:28'
- author:
    name: William Leverette
    picture: 118116
  body: "Hey Mike,\r\n\r\nThanks for posting the development of your card/online identity.
    You address a very interesting question: How does an emerging online identity
    achieve novelty for SEO, link seamlessly to social networking sites, and maintain
    a common given name? <em>Mike Rose</em>. Cool name \u2013 just not entirely [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Rose_(disambiguation)|unique]].
    ;^)\r\n\r\nTwo thoughts on my initial impression:\r\n<ol><li>While I did get that
    there are five <em>o</em>s in <em>Rooooose</em> on my first try, my thought process
    was over-involved:\r\n<ul><li>Hmm, interesting.<li>How many <em>o</em>s is that?<li>Five.
    Six. Five point five. Huh?<li>Weird, for some reason I\u2019m not totally sure;
    guess I\u2019ll count \u2019em.<li>Oh, I see the <em>s</em> kinda pops in and
    out of <em>o</em> territory in my peripheral vision \u2013 that\u2019s why my
    first impression was ambiguous.<li>Hmm, that\u2019s not very clear :( Clever,
    but annoyingly \u201Cunique for uniqueness\u2019 sake\u201D.</ul>\r\n<li>It took
    me even more mental space (granted we\u2019re talking a matter of seconds, but
    energy nonetheless) to decode the name as \u201CRose\u201D. That combination of
    <em>o</em>s is phonetically reads as a long vowel, as in <em>mooooo!</em>, not
    <em>row</em>, or <em>ro-o-o-o-ow!</em> So my first impression of your last name
    was closer to \u201CRuse\u201D. But again, not merely incorrect, my impression
    was ambiguous.</ol>\r\n\r\nI suggest you think more about the username-dropping
    situation where you can\u2019t interact immediately or beforehand with a potential
    client. If the actual conversation doesn\u2019t register at, \u201CHi, my name
    is Mike Rose,\u201D you could potentially turn away customers who leave with mild
    frustration and an impression of wasted time trying to figure out, \u201CWhat
    do I call this guy?\u201D. If you feel that you can control this 100% and always
    introduce yourself verbally and charismatically before passing on the card (as
    seems to be your intention) then I think it <em>should</em> stick. It\u2019s a
    memorable name.\r\n\r\nBut what can you do as a visual communicator to address
    the inherent ambiguity of language and memory designers constantly dance with
    in the best of cases?\r\n\r\nI think a more explicit solution in a case where
    you are actively <em>injecting</em> novelty/ambiguity is needed. You clearly have
    technical skills and a strong aesthetic, this card says to me. How can it also
    impart a more positive impression of your people and design skills?\r\n\r\nColor,
    illustration \u2013\_<em>something.</em> Tasteful, of course, according to the
    minimalist approach. Play off the name and bring some contrast and masculine/feminine
    balance to the equation. Five is such a wonderful number with boundless geometric
    potential. May I suggest something like this?\r\n\r\nJust my thoughts. Great work
    so far pushing the edge between <em>clever</em> and <em>obtuse</em>.\r\n\r\n~William
    Leverette\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rose_5285.png]"
  created: '2009-10-27 17:43:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's already been stated, but this suffers from the fffffffffffffound.com
    syndrome\r\n\r\nI like the idea of making it more of a 'just google it' type of
    thing.\r\n\r\nWould it ruin it to put, in small type underneath, something along
    the lines of \"(that's five o's)\""
  created: '2009-10-27 17:59:52'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "@William Leverette  \u2014 I don't think I want to put any graphics on it.
    I want to keep it as simple possible \u2014 mostly to build interest and curiosity.
    Also, I have such a wide variety of work, I've struggled for years to find some
    sort of symbol that would best represent me, and found that something as simple
    as this seems to fit it best.\r\n\r\n@aluminum \u2014 Yeah that would totally
    ruin it. :) I'm hoping that google helps me out once the site gets up and if people
    type in mikeroooooose (6 o's) it does one of those, \"Did you mean: mikerooooose\"
    ... \r\n\r\nAnyone want to throw some feedback at this?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/63558\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nMike"
  created: '2009-10-27 18:15:13'
- author:
    name: William Leverette
    picture: 118116
  body: "Hi Again ~\r\n\r\nI must admit, branding oneself takes a lot of thought and
    such a higher level of commitment than doing similar work for another. Since this
    card is not the be-all end-all of your personal branding (rather just a teaser),
    I think you can problem solve \u201Cinside the box\u201D of the card and leave
    the fully fledged identity for your online portfolio.\r\n\r\nQuite simply, you
    want people to register your name...but that\u2019s one of the problems of this
    card (or, rather, promoting this identity). You have achieved a certain restraint
    in the letterforms and layout, but the name \u2013 taken by itself \u2013 abandons
    minimalism! As such, the card reads to me somewhat whimsically (as if the voice
    of Wall-E were speaking it :). If I had seen the card before reading your initial
    post I would have had an easier time counting the letters, I suppose. However,
    the problem of best, clearest first impression persists. I challenge you to find
    a more elegant solution to this than Google hand-holding.\r\n\r\nI understand
    your desire to keep it super clean, so a tasteful illustration (hairline line-art,
    perhaps, of a gorgeous five-petaled flower? something more stunning than my quickly
    done attempt? ok, you\u2019re going to hate this idea...) is out of the picture,
    but I still feel like the design leaves me a bit hanging rather than intrigued.
    How about this, then?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nWilliam Leverette[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rose2_4428.png]"
  created: '2009-10-27 20:08:30'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "well I was thinking of having stars for o's, but then I don't want people
    asking me if they're o's or asterisks. I agree it probably needs to be clearer,
    and I think I just thought of something. stay tuned :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 21:10:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "William's suggestion definitely helps a person focus on the number of Os.
    \r\n\r\nI recognize your desire to have Google spell check it for you, but that
    might be a bit over-optimistic. It was smart to grab the domains of fewer and
    more Os, but I think you do want people to register that the default is 5. And
    that's hard to do when they are set all the same typographically. It takes some
    effort to figure out there's 5 of them.\r\n\r\nGranted, all of this is based on
    the assumption that ease-of-use is the key and perhaps that's not in your case
    and that having the end-user figure it out is part of the game. "
  created: '2009-10-27 22:03:19'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "yeah, honestly I think I like a little work on the clients part \u2014 it
    shows me that they're serious.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 22:07:03'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "what do you think about thermal ink for for inside the O's \u2014 to number
    them. I just talked with my printer and it's very doable. memorable, easy, function,
    etc...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mikeroooooose_thermal_4929.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-27 22:39:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I like the idea, but not sure if it works with the numbers inside. I don't
    think the register as 'O's anymore and look more like bubble-test answers. There's
    also the issue where the 5=S.\r\n\r\nThis isn't the answer, but I couldn't resist,
    and maybe it'll trigger an idea:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ooooo_6543.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-27 23:33:22'
- author:
    name: David Boni
    picture: 117710
  body: "Don't complicate it. It looks awesome, it distinguishes you from all the
    other Mike Rose's, and anyone who doesn't take the time to see that there's 5
    o's is probably not someone you want as a client anyways.\r\n\r\nI imagine that
    when exchanging your card, you can simply say \"Google me.\" That makes an impression
    already."
  created: '2009-10-28 00:08:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '  '
  created: '2009-10-28 00:42:28'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "I'm not sure I follow you on this Christopher \u2014 how does diminishing
    returns apply to this?"
  created: '2009-10-28 00:43:22'
- author:
    name: William Leverette
    picture: 118116
  body: "Ease-of-use need not be the ultimate priority \u2013 and I do like me a good
    puzzle \u2013 but this notion about filtering clients based on those who will
    or will not endure the minor tedium of counting <em>o</em>s seems to totally miss
    the point. Lack of clarity in self promotion simply makes a negative impression.\r\n\r\nTo
    my eyes, the design is flawless from a purely graphic/technical perspective. Contemporary,
    precise, minimal, confident, clever. But the function of the original design conflicts
    (albeit to a small degree) with a lot of these same qualities that lend the design
    its strength. (The legibility issue doesn\u2019t reduce the cutting-edgeness of
    the idea itself; this thread is a great proof of concept.)\r\n\r\nIf we were style
    machines with eidetic memory, none of this of course would matter.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    sure, there are many potential clients who want something without a willingness
    to do their part. This scenario should be remediated or the collaboration avoided
    as soon as it comes up! Yet again this awareness falls into the realm of human
    relationship/business skills, not graphic design savvy.\r\n\r\nNow, the use of
    thermal ink is an excellent idea! I see this as precisely the kind of one-shot,
    designerly solution that could add that small but missing layer of warmth (har
    har), and audience/self awareness to your coldly calculated card. Perhaps in your
    modesty you understated the effect of it. In my mind, this card would be delightfully
    interactive (gotta keep those cards out of your pocket, though :), tactile, memorable,
    and thus surprisingly fun. A good puzzle!\r\n\r\nKeep developing ideas of how
    to apply it. I don\u2019t think the <em>5</em> in that sequence would get confused
    in context though there is some tension created with the similar <em>S</em> that
    follows. I was tickled by aluminum\u2019s character count wrangling and inspired
    by his observations. So I\u2019ve include some breezy mock ups as more food for
    thought. The first plays around with the thermal ink idea. The second veers into
    complication and 5-S confusion territory, but I hadn\u2019t really noticed that
    your S/5 is already hidden in plain sight and couldn\u2019t resist. The third
    suggests a more symbolic approach to numbering. You could still go thermal with
    it, it vibes with the grid, and offers a salient play on diacritics not entirely
    unrelated to the phonetic pronunciation of your handle.\r\n\r\nI hope, in the
    end, even if you stick with your original, quality work that you have a clearer
    sense of it and enjoyed the development process. Hey, I see it as love and attention
    you are giving yourself to empower your purpose as a professional. Nothing diminishing
    it that![img:sites/default/files/old-images/rose3_5203.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-28 02:49:29'
- author:
    name: MrKikkoman
    picture: 115551
  body: "I read most of what people had to say and what you said and I truly think
    the original is the best.\r\n\r\nIt makes me think Japanese-minimalist. Adding
    graphics or colors to this just appears ostentatious. \r\n\r\nWhen you hand your
    card to people you're going to (should) explain to them a little bit about what
    you do. When they google you they will find out more. Your card served its purpose.
    You make lots of money. The end.\r\n\r\nIn my expanded thought-bubble, I envision
    the O's as your mark and possible loading bar graphic. Also, I suggest doing your
    site on \"The Grid\"."
  created: '2009-10-28 04:13:01'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: yeah, I think I'm going to keep working on the original more. I agree that
    I shouldn't add anything... I have one more idea I'm gong to try as a pull tab,
    and if that isn't reasonable, I'll get back to the original. :)
  created: '2009-10-28 06:54:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Love this \u201Cstuff\u201D :)"
  created: '2009-10-28 17:30:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "William's 5/S treatment is nice. \r\n\r\nOne thought...is your last name
    actually 'rose'? Any issues with people pronouncing it as 'rooce'?\r\n\r\nI completely
    agree that aesthetically, your first option is great. It really just comes down
    to the level of functionality you want to aim for. "
  created: '2009-10-28 17:41:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I like the thermal ink idea very much (business cards being among the few
    things still actually <em>physically handled</em>).\r\nWorth experimenting."
  created: '2009-10-28 18:36:42'
- author:
    name: rosem
  body: "The only thing about using the S as a 5 reference is that people might now
    be thinking mikerooooo5e \u2014 which I think further complicates it. I mean,
    really \u2014 what age do we live in when it's too hard to count 5 o's and accurately
    type it into a computer. :)"
  created: '2009-10-28 18:59:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"what age do we live in when it\u2019s too hard to count 5 o\u2019s and
    accurately type it into a computer\"\r\n\r\nThat's presuming they'd have the card
    in hand when they're in front of google. \r\n\r\nWhich, hopefully they would have,
    but if they don't, it would have been nice to trigger some association visually
    with 'oh, there were 5 Os in that name' when they first saw it. Having the multiple
    URLs will help.\r\n\r\nThat and there's an entire industry around mistyped URLs.
    So, it may not be as uncommon as one would think. ;)\r\n\r\nmikerooooose works
    great on paper. It's when it's stored as a mental note that might potentially
    cause some confusion. "
  created: '2009-10-28 20:58:17'
- author:
    name: covertjapan
  body: it's dope, don't change a thing. (26.Oct.2009 12.21pm).
  created: '2009-11-12 04:14:00'
date: '2009-10-25 18:17:06'
node_type: forum
title: Personal "Business Card"

---
