---
author:
  name: blokland
  picture: 110274
body: "\u2019s-Hertogenbosch, the Netherlands, 26 October 2009\r\n\r\nThe second <em>Dr.
  Peter Karow Award for Font Technology & Digital Typography</em> has been awarded
  to <strong>Thomas Milo</strong> for the development of the ACE layout engine (the
  heart of the Tasmeem plugin for InDesign ME) for Arabic text setting.\r\n\r\nThe
  <em>Dr. Peter Karow Award for Font Technology & Digital Typography</em> is presented
  once per five years to a person who makes an exceptional and innovative contribution
  to the development of digital type and typography related technology. The first
  Dr. Peter Karow Award was presented to Dr. Peter Karow himself at the third DTL
  FontMaster Conference at Castle Maurick in 2003. So, in this case it took actually
  an extra year before the jury (Dr. Peter Karow, Dr. J\xFCrgen Willrodt, Peter Rosenfeld
  and Frank E. Blokland [chairman]) came to an unanimous decision for the second award.\r\n\r\nThomas
  Milo and his company DecoType developed with ACE, which is an acronym for \u2018Arabic
  Calligraphic Engine\u2019, new advanced technology for Arabic text setting, which
  needs a far more sophisticated approach than for instance the Latin script, based
  on a thorough analysis of the Arabic script. Not only served Milo\u2019s typographic
  research as the fundament for the ACE technology, clearly it also formed a basis
  for the development of the OpenType format, although this is a less known and acknowledged
  fact.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\u2019s importance for the development of digital type and
  typography is evident and in line with the position of Dr. Peter Karow in the field.
  As one consultant of the award jury stated: \u2018Dr. Karow made type digital in
  a way we know today (description of shapes as outlines, rasterization, hinting,
  greyscaling, plus page-layout improvements). Thomas Milo added the \u201Csmartness\u201D
  needed for scripts that ask for a more sophisticated behavior than Latin\u2019.\r\n\r\nOn
  the 18th of November Dr. Peter Karow shall personally present the award to Thomas
  Milo at the <a href=\"http://www.fontmaster.nl/Blogs/FMNews\">Type[&]Design 2009</a>
  conference in The Hague.\r\n\r\nThe jury of the Dr. Peter Karow Award congratulates
  Thomas Milo with his impressive achievements!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ThomasMilo_5742.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n<em>\u2018Arabic
  script is the result of a millenium and a half of intense and competent design development.
  Like for Latin script, computer technology should facilitate such a heritage. The
  first line presents DecoType philosophy in a nutshell. In black, the result. In
  colors, the letters. In outlines, the structure. The typeface is DecoType's Nastaliq,
  the language is Persian. The second line, for comparison, shows the same text in
  OpenType. The typeface is Adobe Arabic.\u2019</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Arabic_sample_6634.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Congratulations on a well-deserved recognition.
  created: '2009-10-26 16:28:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Congratulations, Tom. \r\n\r\nFrank, I also published part of this in the
    NEWS feed as well, I hope that is ok."
  created: '2009-10-26 18:02:19'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Tiffany, thanks for publishing the info on Thomas Milo and the Dr. Karow
    Award on the NEWS feed.\r\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSome
    links on Thomas Milo and his work:\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAbout Thomas Milo:\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a
    href=\"http://citizenreporter.org/2008/09/bm281-thomas-milo-on-arabic-script-war-in-lebanon-and-more/\"
    ><em>Thomas Milo on Arabic Script, War in Lebanon, and More</em>, an interview
    with citizenreporter.org</a>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;About designing typefaces
    for ACE in Tasmeem (PDF):\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://sehstoerung.sonance.net/pdfs/Tasmeem4_typespecimen_web.pdf\"
    >Titus Nemeth: <em>Tasmeem 4 Typefaces 2009</em></a>\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://sehstoerung.sonance.net/pdfs/Typeface%20Design%20in%20Arabic_ATypI08_TNemeth_web.pdf\"
    >Titus Nemeth: <em>Tasmeem &middot; Typeface Design in Arabic</em></a> \r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a
    href=\"http://sehstoerung.sonance.net/pdfs/T_Nemeth%20-%20A%20primer%20for%20Arabic%20Typeface%20Design_web.pdf\"
    >Titus Nemeth: <em>A Primer for Arabic Typeface Design for the DecoType Arabic
    Calligraphic Engine in WinSoft Tasmeem</em></a>\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://sehstoerung.sonance.net/pdfs/TitusNemeth_dissertation.pdf\"
    >Titus Nemeth: <em>The Current State of Arabic Newspaper Type\r\nand Typography</em></a>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAdditional
    videos demonstrating ACE by way of Tasmeem:\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://www.decotype.com/Abdallah_Sez_2.mov\"
    ><em>Abdallah sez ...</em> Aphorisms set in Ruqah and Naskh</a>\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a
    href=\"http://www.decotype.com/MushafLayout.mov\" >Using Tasmeem&rsquo;s Text
    Shaper to expand text and fit it on the page<a>\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://www.decotype.com/TextShaper_subtle_expansion.mov\"
    >Using Tasmeem&rsquo;s Text Shaper to expand a line</a>\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<a href=\"http://www.decotype.com/Poetry%20-%20Spacing%20and%20WordShaping%20Nastaliq.mov\"
    >Using Tasmeem&rsquo;s Word Shaping</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 12:56:49'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Congratulations,\r\n\r\nCertainly Tom Milo's work on ACE is the first ground
    breaking technology in service of Arabic script. The appreciation will only grow
    in time."
  created: '2009-10-28 02:59:17'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Congratulations Tom - you have certainly earned this award! Having seen ACE
    in action (I have the honor to be one of the font designers for Tasmeem) I feel
    ACE can yet be applied to other scripts - Latin? Chinese-type ideograms...who
    knows?  It is a really smart-font technology that knows how to build up fonts
    using a few basic shapes, Lego-style, but with a seamless and sophisticated printed
    or displayed output that varies according to context.\r\n\r\nHello benham this
    time we rejoice in a happy occasion!"
  created: '2009-10-28 14:13:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Vladimir: <em>I feel ACE can yet be applied to other scripts - Latin? Chinese-type
    ideograms...</em>\r\n\r\nWhen humans invent a hammer, they start to look around
    for things to hit.\r\n\r\nSince almost all writing is composed of strokes with
    at least some stroke shapes repeated, any script can potentially be broken down
    into the kind of pieces that ACE employs. [ACE can handle different levels of
    decomposition: some fonts might only decompose to the archigrapheme level, i.e.
    to undifferentiated letter shapes, while others might decompose to smaller stroke
    units.] The key question to ask would be whether other scripts benefit from such
    treatment in the same way that Arabic does and, because we're not talking only
    or even primarily about fonts here but also layout engines, can a general case
    be made for handling text in this way for other scripts? For instance, I can imagine
    something like ACE applied to a cursive Latin type such as Bickham Script Pro,
    and can also see how such a design would benefit from the kind of ACE-based variation
    that Tasmeem exposes so nicely. The OpenType version of Bickham Script Pro is
    less static than most Latin fonts, but it still is quite limited in the number
    of ways in which in can display a particular string of characters: the contextual
    lookups give the appearance of a lot of variation, but in fact they constrain
    the variation. Something like the Tasmeem word shaper and dissimilation functions,
    exposing all the possible ways in which a word could be written with the glyphs
    in the font, would be a clear benefit and enable more variation. On the other
    hand, the vast majority of Latin text neither requires such handling nor clearly
    benefits from it, simply because the norm of the formal book hand in this writing
    system is disconnected and aims for consistency rather than variation. \r\n\r\nThe
    brilliance of ACE is that it proceeds from the Arabic writing system, taking into
    account the features of that system <em>as a system</em> and the subsystems of
    specific styles. It seems to me that the real lesson of ACE is not whether this
    particular technology can be applied to other writing systems, but that the same
    process of devising a technology from analysis of those systems might bear similarly
    excellent fruit.\r\n\r\nOpenType tries to be all things to all writing systems,
    and ends up being only some things to most writing systems. ACE seeks to be all
    things to the Arabic writing system, and largely nails it (I'm not yet happy with
    the spacing results, although the idea is sound and doubtless the implementation
    can be refined). It's a great Arabic hammer, and perhaps one could use it to hit
    things other than Arabic. But wouldn't it be more in the spirit of ACE to invent
    hammers optimised for those other writing systems, based on analysis and modelling
    of their characteristics?"
  created: '2009-10-28 20:36:00'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Hello John,\r\n>>...When humans invent a hammer, they start to look around
    for things to hit...>>\r\nHow true- that is how technology develops.  I am fairly
    new to digital fonts and  can only appreciate in retrospect how revolutionary
    was Tom's idea. In my time (the early sixties) I patented a handful of common
    letter endings to abridge the number of Arabic letter-press types, but that is
    like a stone to Tom's high-tech hammer.\r\n\r\nIt is true that ACE has been developed
    for Arabic, and initially for one or two particular styles of Arabic. This reminds
    me to express my admiration for Tom's scholarship dedicated to the study of the
    historical development of Arabic calligraphy, particularly the Ottoman Naskh style
    - he deservs another prize just for that. \r\n\r\nI must mention another great
    advantage of ACE - the same font consisting of relatively few  glyphs (archigraphemes)
    can be used for Persian, Urdu, Pashtu and a host of other similar scripts. Ace
    shifts the necessary marks constructing the shapes as it goes. It succeeds brilliantly,
    but like any computer software it has to be tweaked and adjusted to deal with
    unexpected issues, and indeed the question of spacing is one that is being dealt
    with. Adjusting the parameters of ACE to suit the expectations of a particular
    font is an interesting way to further enhance it.  There are other possibilities
    but the Decotype team have enough on their plate for now.\r\n\r\nThe reason I
    mentioned Latin scripts is that the whole family of languages that use its basic
    letter-shapes and marks (Swedish, Vietnamese, Turkish etc. stc. ) can benefit
    from an ACE-like system in the same way that Arabic-related languages have.  The
    font designer only creates the minimum number of necessary shapes, and the software
    places the attached marks when and where they are needed.\r\n\r\nYes, variation
    is a key advantage ACE gives the font designer, blurring the difference between
    calligraphy and font design. Another way it can be applied is to scripts with
    swashes and other 'artistic' devices. For example if a fluid script like the so-called
    kusa brush writing of Japanese (in vertical lines) can be applied in an intelligent
    font the result will be as exciting as Tasmeem is for Arabic."
  created: '2009-10-29 15:09:37'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Vladimir,\r\nThe concept of ACE is beyond that. This is the first time that
    technology -any technology- has looked at Arabic script in its natural behavior.\r\nArabic
    script is not more 'complex' than Roman script. It just behaves differently. If
    Roman text is an assembly of characters, Arabic script is an assembly of words.
    ACE is the first computing technology that understands that. The immediate outcome
    of-course, is the work of Tom Milo in tasmeem. But this is not only a calligraphic
    tool, although Tom may have initially thought it was. ACE essentially is about
    computing how Arabic script behaves. We can't have a true 'Arabic typography'
    without being able to draw characters in their natural behaviors. But beyond typography,
    any matter of computing dealing with Arabic script can not be resolved unless
    the natural behavior of the script is understood. An assembly of words not characters.\r\nThink
    of hand writing recognition in touch screen devices for example. It is impossible
    to do unless the device view the script the way ACE views it, word by word. So
    the concept, in my view is far reaching, beyond its original intent."
  created: '2009-10-29 22:08:19'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Exactly, benham. The success of ACE in dealing with Arabic (and of course
    that means also Persian, Urdu et al)  is that it is built on Tom's thorough research
    into the Arabic scripts concerned. What you say about 'any technology' not having
    dealt with Arabic word shapes before ACE is true- but only if the hundreds of
    lead letter types with which early Arabic printers hand-set such scripts as thuluth
    is not considered a technology. Arabic is fortunate in coming late to printing,
    because the calligraphic tradition overlapped the advent of computer technology.\r\n\r\nLatin
    scripts had to go through the few hundred years since Gutenberg when the handwriting
    of letters and documents developed separately from printing, which became set
    in the  regimented way the technology dictated. Tom is well aware that the Arabic
    fonts developed in the last sixty years (including my own) in imitation of Latin
    aesthetics, are a departure from the true genius of connected Arabic writing.
    I have written elsewhere about the possible advantage Arabic has where each of
    its words has a unique outline, enhancing legibility. \r\n\r\nACE-like software
    can help revive the tradition of Latin calligraphy in the natural way it was written
    combining disciplined letter shapes with spontaneous variations according to the
    place of the letter in word or in the sentence and page. "
  created: '2009-10-30 01:57:22'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Due to traveling abroad, the Dutch minister of Education, Culture and Science
    apologized for not being able to attend the <em>Dr. Peter Karow Award</em> presentation
    to Thomas Milo at the Steigenberger Kurhaus Hotel in The Hague coming Wednesday,
    but he will be represented by his Director-General. This very much underlines
    the acknowledgement of Thomas' achievements for digital type and technology.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSome
    photo\u2019s of the preparations for the conference session at the Royal Academy:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TD_KABK_2009_1_4939.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TD_KABK_2009_2_4178.jpg]\r\n\xA9
    Jorn Henkes\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2009-11-14 13:11:31'
- author:
    name: sofyaani
  body: "I just want to say the first script that wrote its below \"technology designed
    for Arabic\" it's not Arabic actually , it's Iranian (Persian) Script that called
    Nastaliq!!!!!!!!!!!!\r\nIt's not Arabic at all!\r\n(sigh)\r\n(sigh)\r\n(sigh)"
  created: '2009-11-14 17:12:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Dear Sofyaani,\r\n\r\nIf the Arab armies in the year 732 had won the Battle
    of Poitiers (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Tours) the example could have
    been in a native Dutch Islamic style - but technically the script would still
    be valid as a sample of Arabic :-)\r\n   \r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com\r\n\r\nPS
    - Because the Arab armies did win other battles, the sample text happens to be
    Persian. It means \"in personal experience\". It is in the nastaliq style (which
    is widely used in the Arab world in a form simplified by Ottoman calligraphers-designers
    and called ruqah script), because that style is a typical example of Arabic script
    that defies all outside, industrial attempts at simplification. The second line
    has the same text, ergo, it is also in Persian, but in a typeface that represents
    the tendency to strip Arabic of any characteristic feature that requires other
    technology than what is available for Latin."
  created: '2009-11-15 08:52:27'
- author:
    name: sofyaani
  body: how a ridiculous reason
  created: '2009-11-15 18:33:50'
- author:
    name: sofyaani
  body: SOPHISTICATION
  created: '2009-11-15 18:34:00'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: "Tom Milo developed an Arabic Naskh before this Persian Nasta'liq. Both of
    them belong to Arabic script. I don't see your point sofyaani. Do you have any
    or just spamming around?\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 18:07:35'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "<strong>On Wednesday the 18th of November 2009 at the end of the very successful
    Type[&]Design 2009 Conference session at the Steigenberger Kurhaus Hotel in The
    Hague, the second <em>Dr. Peter Karow Award for Font Technology & Digital Typography</em>
    was presented to Thomas Milo by Dr. Peter Karow himself. The ceremony followed
    on an inspiring talk by Thomas on the history of his company DecoType and the
    development of the ACE technology.</strong>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nPrior and during his
    talk Thomas underlined that without the assistance and support of his colleagues
    at DecoType, who are his wife <em>Mirjam Somers</em> and his brother-in-law <em>Peter
    Somers</em>, his smart font technology would not have become as sophisticated
    as it is today.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nMirjam Somers was educated at St Joost Art Academy
    in Breda, the Netherlands, where she was a talented pupil of the famous calligrapher
    Chris Brand. After two years she continued at the Gerrit Rietveld Academy in Amsterdam
    where she graduated Architectural Design in 1974. Having worked as a carpenter
    and free-lance typographer she encountered Arabic script in 1982, when together
    with Thomas Milo she designed and produced the <em>Arabic Letter Box</em>, a wooden
    prototype of a computer program and an educational tool at once. It taught them
    that Arabic requires an unconventional approach.\r\nThe inspiration was actually
    provided by a Chinese character cut by Mirjam during her St Joost days: it gave
    the clue for the penstroke-based approach. With Tom she reduced the traditional
    Arabic Ruqah script to 70 penstrokes and defined a mechanism to generate all and
    any letter combination correctly: the smart font algorithm. Mirjam played a major
    role in designing the Naskh typeface (1993&ndash;), and created the Emiri (2004,
    a revival) and Nastaliq (2008&ndash;, an original analysis) typefaces. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nPeter
    Somers received his degree in &aelig;ronautics at the Delft University of Technology
    in 1971, and joined Fokker Aircraft\u2019s R&D department of advanced materials
    and processes in 1973. Later he joined the Optics Research Group of the Delft
    University of Technology in 1998 as senior researcher for the development of non-contact
    methods for the inspection of aerospace structures. There he also continued the
    development of real time speckle interferometry.\r\nThe combination of the font
    box and the out-of-the-box font, which Mirjam Somers developed together with Tomas
    Milo, inspired Peter Somers to write revolutionary smart font program code. He
    created a software based equivalent: a logical system for context sensitive selection
    of character variants for Arabic script, incorporating the concept that the Arabic
    characters in calligraphic composition can be decomposed into a limited series
    of basic shapes.\r\nPeter designed an appropriate data structure for these shapes
    and a logical system to connect them. Available methods such as digital image
    acquisition and image processing, very common today, but advanced and hard to
    get by at that time, were used to implement these ideas in software. His efforts
    led to the first \u2018intelligent font\u2019 and resulted in the DecoType <em>Arabic
    Calligraphic Engine</em> (ACE) which powers intelligent fonts that provide high
    quality dynamically shaped calligraphic results.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe photo
    shoot below was taken during the ceremony, and show Mirjam Somers and Peter Somers
    besides Dr. Peter Karow and Thomas Milo.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kurhaus_1_4731.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kurhaus_2_3924.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PKAward_1_4813.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PKAward_2_4341.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PKAward_3_4396.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PKAward_4_5829.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PKAward_5_5801.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2009-11-24 09:31:16'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Tuesday 17 September 2013 Nicole Minoza posted on Adobe\u2019s <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2013/09/dr-peter-karow-award.html\">Tyblography</a>
    the news that Dr. Donald E. Knuth will be presented with the third <em>Dr. Peter
    Karow Award for Font Technology & Digital Typography</em> at the ATypI Amsterdam
    2013 conference. \r\n\r\nDr. Knuth will receive the award in the presence of the
    previous two winners: <em>Dr. Peter Karow</em> (in 2003) and <em>Thomas Milo</em>
    (in 2009; see also this <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/exquisitefonts/sets/72157635612489346/\">Flicker
    set</a>).\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-19 08:41:41'
date: '2009-10-26 08:29:20'
title: Dr. Peter Karow Award for Thomas Milo

---
