---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "Version 6, page 88:\r\n\r\n\"<em>Space twice after punctuation marks at the
  end of a sentence</em>.\"\r\n\r\nStrange. The previous version recommends only 1.
  An interesting step backwards. If I discover a reason for this, I'll let you know."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: APA? American Paper Association - well that makes sense.
  created: '2009-10-27 13:36:04'
- author:
    name: DanielNisbet
  body: I just got used to doing one space after the period! Oh well... don't plan
    on breaking that habit anytime soon. I just can't stand the huge space between
    words when there's a double space there.
  created: '2009-10-27 13:51:49'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I believe bluebook style also recommends two spaces after a period. It's rather
    unfortunate.
  created: '2009-10-27 13:55:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: APA = American Psychological Association. They recently published the 6th
    edition of their their manuscript publication guidelines which includes a lot
    of typographic recommendations, most of which are downright hilarious. There have
    been a lot of changes for the better in this edition, but going back to a double
    spaced period is a real head-scratcher. Even the average office admin knows better.
    You could do an entire thesis on validating the efficiency of these guidelines,
    but I believe someone has already published a paper on that.
  created: '2009-10-27 14:21:54'
- author:
    name: k.brideau
    picture: 117267
  body: "APA has always struck me as favoring a looser text, with all its parenthetical
    whatnot. (Always been a fan of Chicago myself.)\r\nAre the new guidelines online?"
  created: '2009-10-27 14:43:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Make them use TeX, which automatically strips out multiple spaces. (French
    spacing is allowed, though. That should appeal to a segment of the psychological
    community)
  created: '2009-10-27 16:17:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Birdeau: Not that I know of. You can [[http://apastyle.apa.org/manual/index.aspx|buy
    the book directly from APA]]. Hold off though, they made revisions.'
  created: '2009-10-27 17:09:01'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "> <cite>Make them use TeX</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is already a apa LaTeX class
    that was written by <a href=\"http://www.ilsp.gr/homepages/protopapas/Protopapas-CV-EN.html\">Athanassios
    Protopapas</a> (article in eutypon, <a href=\"http://www.ilsp.gr/homepages/protopapas/pdf/Protopapas_2007_Eutypon.pdf\">pdf</a>
    400K). \r\n\r\nIt is interesting to read  the author's comment on ctan http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/macros/latex/contrib/apa/\r\n\r\n<cite>\r\napa.cls
    is not in any way connected to, endorsed by, or probably known at all at the American
    Psychological Association.  APA does not even accept manuscript submissions in
    LaTeX source.  The author of apa.cls has made every effort to achieve typesetting
    results conforming to  the APA manual, because he uses it for his manuscripts.
    \ However, he is not responsible if the editor does not approve of a manuscript
    \ typeset with apa.cls, if your computer blows up while processing your manuscript
    with apa.cls, or for anything else that may go wrong with apa.cls, or with anything
    else for that matter.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Athanassios Protopapas</cite>\r\nprotopap@ilsp.gr\r\n<cite>December
    2008</cite>"
  created: '2009-10-27 17:56:24'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "That double space is a purely American habit, and as a lot of other US-habits
    (chewing gum, eating too much meat, driving gas-guzzlers) it is awful and without
    any merit. \r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-10-27 20:15:24'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "The <a href=\"http://flash1r.apa.org/apastyle/basics/data/resources/sample-papers.pdf\">samples</a>
    they provide in their <a href=\"http://flash1r.apa.org/apastyle/basics/index.htm\">Basics
    of APA Style Tutorial</a> all look like the kind of manuscripts that writers and
    journalists present to a book or magazine publisher (double-spaced, etc.).\r\n\r\nFollowing
    up on Bert's comment, maybe the APA has decided to return to this very ingrained
    (in America, at least) typewriting-derived habit.\r\n\r\nAlso, I imagine that
    this manual isn't a book that graphic designers or typesetters usually consult.
    :-)"
  created: '2009-10-27 22:43:27'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "haven't we discussed this before?       ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-27 23:02:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That double space is a purely American habit\r\n\r\nThe practice of double
    spacing after periods is in the US known variously as \"English\" or \"French\"
    spacing, and has been common at one time in those countries, as well as the US.
    It is not an American habit today, as most style guides, I believe, are against
    it. The one Christopher refers to is an outlier. I also can't remember ever seeing
    printed material like that. It used to be standard practice in typewritten material,
    where it has some rationale. \r\n\r\nFor some of the story you can read the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_spacing_at_the_end_of_sentences|Wikipedia
    article on double spacing.]]\r\n\r\nps I see in Harry Carter's \"View of Early
    Typography\" that a hand manuscript of 1450 has wide spacing between sentences,
    and the famous Berner sheet of Garamond has many sentences spaced very widely.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-28 00:13:10'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I was just having a look at Appendix F of Knuth's <cite>The TeXbook, Computers
    and Typesetting</cite> and, even if TeX \"ignores spaces\" in the input, TeX fonts
    contain a parameter that fixes the extra space added to the interword space at
    the end of a sentence. For the Computer Modern (10pt) font, the interword space
    is 3.33pt, and the extra space is 1.11pt; however, for the Computer Modern Typewriter
    font, the extra space is equal to the interword space, 5.25pt, giving in fact
    two spaces after a period. Here is how it looks with LaTeX. The inputs are essentially
    the same, one with \\textrm (Roman font), the other with \\texttt (the typewriter
    font):\r\n\r\nInput:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hwlatex_5207.jpg]\r\nOutput:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hwlatexout_3733.jpg]\r\nMichel\r\n\r\n[added]
    The number of spaces in the input is irrelevant. Many spaces give the same output
    as one space."
  created: '2009-10-28 01:53:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> APA recommends double space after a period...\r\n\r\nso? what's the big
    deal? \r\n\r\n\r\nMLA Style (accepted style in the humanities disciplines) --
    Modern Language Association --  calls for double-spacing\r\n\r\nAP Style -- Associated
    Press -- calls for one space\r\n\x04\f\v\x04\x05\x04\x14\f\x06\x03\x18\x1F\x04\x05"
  created: '2009-10-28 03:40:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, according to [[http://wwwappskc.lonestar.edu/programs/library/docs/MLA09.pdf|this
    pdf]] the MLA style is \"single space after all punctuation.\" The Chicago Manual
    of Style is the same. \r\n\r\nI don't think you will find many style guides that
    still have the old double spacing, which anyway was specified I think mainly for
    typed manuscripts, not print. Charles can tell us more authoritatively."
  created: '2009-10-28 03:57:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nMLA: \"As a practical matter, however, there is nothing wrong
    with using two spaces after concluding punctuation marks unless an instructor
    or editor requests that you do otherwise.\""
  created: '2009-10-28 04:24:03'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: APA. What did you expect? If they did not make these in-your-face pronouncements,
    you would not know they existed.
  created: '2009-10-28 05:48:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The break between one sentence and the next is already clearly indicated
    by not one but two conventions: a fullstop at the end of one sentence, and capitalisation
    of the beginning of the next. That''s already one more indicator than most other
    textual divisions. There''s absolutely no need to add a third indicator by doubling
    the word space.'
  created: '2009-10-28 09:09:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I agree with no extra space, but I think it is more a matter of custom, and
    less of principle, than I thought the first time around on this topic. For example,
    John, you could argue that within a sentence an abbreviation with a period can
    be followed by a cap, so to distinguish sentences definitively extra space helps.
    To me the holes it puts in the text are unattractive, so I go for keeping the
    current rule of no extra space between sentences. But as I say, I suspect it is
    more what I am used to reading, rather than a matter of principle. '
  created: '2009-10-28 13:46:46'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: A bunch of those rules in academic groups go back to mono spaced typewriter
    manuscripts - some people have not yet gotten used to the idea that a personal
    computer can set type.
  created: '2009-10-28 14:56:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ bojev: Correct. For example, in APA v5, there was no such thing as bold
    to establish hierarchy. It is only in v6 that we are \"allowed\" to use bold for
    the first time. I still can't figure why they took so many steps forward with
    version, but a step backwards with the whole period thing.\r\n\r\nI <em>may</em>
    end up working with [[http://www.ilsp.gr/homepages/protopapas/Protopapas-CV-EN.html|Protopapas]]
    on updating the apa.cls from v5\u20136 at which point I should have a complete
    list of the APA's typographic conventions. A fun exercise (avoidance behaviour)."
  created: '2009-10-28 15:38:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "\"he is not responsible if the editor does not approve of a manuscript typeset
    with apa.cls, if your computer blows up while processing your manuscript with
    apa.cls, or for anything else that may go wrong with apa.cls, or with anything
    else for that matter.\"\r\n\r\n@Michel Boyer \r\nThat is quite possibly the best
    disclaimer I have ever read. It should probably be the default disclaimer on any
    MS product :p"
  created: '2009-10-28 15:52:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH>There\u2019s absolutely no need to add a third indicator by doubling the
    word space.\r\n\r\nAll depends on whether the emphasis is on reading or editing.\r\nFor
    reading, you're right. It's ridiculous. But for marking it up by hand during editing,
    it might make it easier to mark off a particular sentence without messing up the
    next.\r\nThat might be the thinking, as strange as it might seem.\r\nGiving ease
    of editing precedence over the readability of the finished product.\r\nAPA also
    calls for double spacing. Also silly in the final product. But when you're editing
    on paper, that extra space comes in mighty handy.\r\n(I do quite a bit of editing
    of APA papers.)\r\nThat said, it's not going to be enforced by anyone or anything.
    In spite of what v6 might say. APA-specific software doesn't enforce it and those
    apps don't get upgraded too often.\r\n"
  created: '2009-10-28 19:12:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "James Felici had an interesting article about double-spacing after periods
    recently on CreativePro.com: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativepro.com/article/double-space-or-not-double-space\r\n\r\nThe
    practice goes very far back, before typewriters (and before America, for that
    matter). \r\n\r\nI prefer one space mainly because using two creates unsightly
    holes and uneven color in text."
  created: '2009-10-28 20:22:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: I miss two spaces mainly because of the sound. Each sentence _sounds_ like
    it has more finality when you hit that keyboard. Multiply that by a room full
    of writers, and you have more diverse rhythms. (And you can tell who types faster.)
  created: '2009-10-28 20:46:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "By the way, I'm wondering whether Jan Tschichold had an influence on killing
    the double spacing. His rules for Penguin have a single space after a sentence.
    \r\n\r\nOr was it the advent of machine type setting? I can imagine that in hand
    composition justifying text by adjusting space between sentences might have been
    an easy and clean option. \r\n\r\nWith machine setting, I believe that adjustment
    of all word spaces in a line for purpose of justification became relatively quick
    and easy. "
  created: '2009-10-28 21:00:38'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: But what size space are we talking about when we say two spaces?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshotspaces_5017.gif]
  created: '2009-10-29 19:32:17'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: Or, for that matter, what is a "double-spaced" line?
  created: '2009-10-29 20:25:30'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Each sentence _sounds_ like it has more finality</em>\r\n\r\nGood Lord
    of Evil, Dan, for a minute you sounded like a bowelbird!"
  created: '2009-10-29 21:13:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I mentioned before in a similar thread, kerning of the difficult cap-lowercase
    combinations (in Linotype two-letter \"logotypes\" at first) rendered \"double
    spacing\" unnecessary.\r\n\r\nPreviously, if only a single space occurred before
    a \"T_o\" or similar combination, that didn't sufficiently associate the capital
    with its word.\r\n\r\nEven today, double-spacing improves the appearance of certain
    types that have kerning between the space and letter characters. For instance,
    when the period at the end of a sentence is kerned under an \"f\", and the following
    sentence begins with a T."
  created: '2009-10-29 21:21:17'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "<em>Good Lord of Evil, Dan, for a minute you sounded like a bowelbird!</em>\r\nSweet
    Jesus, Ricardo, how could you say something like that!"
  created: '2009-10-30 23:03:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\nIn the world of APA papers where typophiles *do not* predominate,
    double spacing is whatever MS Word says it is."
  created: '2009-10-31 12:52:38'
- author:
    name: theReader
    picture: 117645
  body: 'What Americans call a "period" is known in Britain as a "full stop".  In
    British usage a comma, being a partial stop is followed by a single space.  The
    full stop  takes two spaces  both to differentiate and emphasise. This was of
    importance when typesetting was less precise that it is now and text was set quite
    tight. '
  created: '2009-10-31 19:50:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>Sweet Jesus, Ricardo, how could you say something like that!</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was the underscores that you used for emphasis, Dan. :-)"
  created: '2009-11-01 00:24:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: '*also a throwback to typewriters :P'
  created: '2009-11-02 17:01:25'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I remember typewriters (my dad's Olivetti, at least) being able to underline
    for emphasis. :P\r\n\r\nBut seriously, Dan, I will never, ever, make such a comparison
    again! :-)"
  created: '2009-11-04 20:56:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "This just in\u2026\r\n\r\nApparently there are so many mistakes in the first
    run of the APA 6th edition they are doing a reprint/recall/refund for anyone who
    bought one. Our lab will be doing so. I'll definitely double-check to see if the
    double-space holds up."
  created: '2009-11-05 17:16:28'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "The practice of using a single space after the period goes back to ye Olden
    Dayes of dedicated phototypesetting. These machines DID NOT strip double spaces
    so, in order to prevent the following scenario, a single space after a period
    became the norm.\r\n\r\nIf a single space following a period fell at the end of
    a line, the space became a line break. If a double space after a period came at
    the end of a line, one or the other of the spaces became a line break, which meant
    that there was an additional, unwanted space either at the end of the first line
    or at the beginning of the second."
  created: '2009-11-05 20:59:05'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   Apparently there are so many mistakes \r\n>   in the first run of the
    APA 6th edition \r\n>   they are doing a reprint/recall/refund \r\n>   for anyone
    who bought one.\r\n\r\ni'd say the irony of that is quite delicious.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 23:13:07'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Having people pop up out of nowhere to recommend TeX is like having Objectivists
    pop up out of nowhere to remind us what the only role of government is.\r\n\r\nAlso:
    Source on your recall statement, Christopher?\r\n\r\nAlso\u2082: HTML rules on
    whitespace collapse make it impossible to end a sentence with two spaces unless
    one or more of them is nonbreaking. In fact, you can end sentences with a hundred
    spaces, tabs, and carriage returns and they\u2019ll all be collapsed to a single
    space (modulo certain CMSs and blog platforms that try to turn such runs into
    <code>BR</code>s).\r\n\r\n\u2014  \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2009-12-06 19:31:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I had always thought that the rule of two spaces after a period is just for
    typewriters (that is, monospaced fonts), and never for printing.
  created: '2009-12-06 19:50:06'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Also\u2082: HTML rules on whitespace collapse make it impossible to
    end a sentence with two spaces unless one or more of them is nonbreaking</cite>\r\n\r\nExcept
    for the likes of &lt;pre>, en space, em space, thin space, and the white-space
    CSS property\u2026"
  created: '2009-12-06 20:30:12'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "joeclark said:\r\n>   HTML rules on whitespace collapse \r\n>   make it impossible
    to end a sentence with two spaces \r\n>   unless one or more of them is nonbreaking.\r\n\r\ni
    noticed something odd in an .html doc one day,\r\nand explored to find that the
    person had changed\r\ndouble-spaces at the end of sentences to a combo\r\nof plainspace-nonbreakingspace,
    which meant that\r\nwhen that beginning plainspace fell at the end of a line,\r\nthe
    nonbreakingspace would be the first \"character\" on\r\nthe next line, and would
    dutifully present as a space,\r\ncausing a weird void to appear at the start of
    the line.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 08:58:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird\r\n\r\njoeclark said:\r\n>> HTML rules on whitespace collapse\r\n>>
    make it impossible to end a sentence with two spaces\r\n>> unless one or more
    of them is nonbreaking.\r\n\r\n>when that beginning plainspace fell at the end
    of a line,\r\n>the nonbreakingspace would be the first \u201Ccharacter\u201D on\r\n>the
    next line,\r\n\r\nThe four per-em space is pretty close in width to the space.
    Two of them after the period does a pretty good job of approximating two spaces.
    In fact, I think a four per-em space followed by a six per-em space is right on
    the money width-wise but not sure.\r\nAlso, using the zero-width space might prevent
    the wrapping to the next line of the last space character that you observed. If
    it doesn't help, the only answer, I think, is to get CSS in on the act.\r\nTry
    this:\r\n&amp;&#35;8197;&amp;&#35;8197;&amp;&#35;8203;\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-10 07:01:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Does anyone know anything about roadrunner.com is? I just received an email
    from them about this issue.
  created: '2010-10-19 01:03:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I remember being taught to double-space after a period when typing. But that
    rule didn't apply to typesetting; there, space after punctuation marks was the
    same as normal space between words.\r\n\r\nI do know that there was a British
    practice of spacing <em>before</em> a colon or a semicolon in typesetting, using
    a space much smaller than minimum wordspacing, which looks odd to North American
    eyes."
  created: '2010-10-19 04:51:55'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '@Christopher: clever spam?'
  created: '2010-10-19 09:15:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: ' http://www.slate.com/id/2281146/pagenum/all/'
  created: '2011-01-14 22:38:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Nice link Craig. It's been a while since I checked in. Looked through my
    latest APA manual and indeed \u201C<em>Spacing twice after punctuation marks at
    the end of a sentence aids readers of draft manuscripts</em>.\u201D pp 88."
  created: '2011-01-16 22:48:37'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: Draft? Daft, me thinks. Waste of space!
  created: '2011-01-16 23:12:16'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "you know what was interesting about that slate article?\r\n\r\nmost articles
    there, especially from the writer who did\r\nthis one, draw a few hundred comments,
    after a while.\r\n\r\nthis one had a thousand comments  right off the bat,\r\nand
    the total count has since climbed to over 2200...\r\n\r\nso people obviously _care_
    about this issue!  really!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  and -- at least at the
    start -- the overwhelming\r\nmajority of posters said \"i use two, and i ain't
    changing\".\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 22:25:52'
date: '2009-10-27 13:30:03'
title: APA recommends double space after a period

---
