---
author:
  name: nomhak
body: "I'm trying to determine what kind of serifs a Blackletter font like Wilhelm
  Klingspor Gotisch has, I haven't spent a whole lot of time determining the anatomical
  makeup of the typeface so any help would be great. \r\n\r\nJust to prevent any confusion
  when I ask for the serif classification I mean are the bracketed? Beaked? Etc. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Blackletter typefaces are a class of their own.\r\nThey simply aren\u2019t
    serif typefaces, so they don\u2019t have serifs."
  created: '2009-10-27 22:15:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "In a sense you are sort of correct Jan... I avoided this one for this very
    reason. They do have serifs but they are not subject to the same classifications
    as Roman, although you can find similarities in the \"entry/finish strokes.\"\r\n\r\nRui,
    this is one you sort of make up as you go along.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-27 22:27:37'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I\u2019d say they don\u2019t have serifs \u2019cause the origin of serifs
    is the engraving with chisels in stone whereas whatever blackletter faces have
    comes strictly from the pen."
  created: '2009-10-27 23:06:19'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "So you cannot make serifs with a pen? How ludicrous is that?\r\n\r\nBlackletter
    most certainly has serifs... as I said before, just not in the same sense as Roman.\r\n\r\nNext
    thing you'll be telling me is that Blackletter is Sans Serif :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gi_5590.png]\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you call the highlighted \"appendages?\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-28 01:27:43'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Sure you can make serifs with a pen, imitations of those on the Trajan column.\r\nBlackletter
    faces are basically script faces. Whatever happens, more of less, where the penstroke
    starts and ends is just more or less ductus, not a serif.\r\nI\u2019d call the
    highlighted appendages \u2013 eh \u2013 appendages maybe?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Brokenscript-Bold_4679.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhere
    are the serifs here?"
  created: '2009-10-28 02:00:27'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "They do not exist in your example... it is a contemporary adaptation, and
    an anecdotal sham on your part to try and prove a point. Serifs are, as you stated,
    BEGINNING and FINISH strokes, whether by pen or by chisel. They exist in the blackletter
    and rotunda  forms, much as they existed in the Roman.\r\n\r\nScript????  It is
    just as painstaking and precise as the Roman. Hence Textura Prescisus. It is not
    a copperplate or spencerian, a flowing form. \r\n\r\n\"where the penstroke starts
    and ends is just more or less ductus, not a serif.\"\r\n\r\nNo... ductus is direction
    and sequence. Has nothing to do with the existence or lack of serifs.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-28 04:31:49'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>They do not exist in your example... it is a contemporary adaptation,
    and an anecdotal sham on your part to try and prove a point.</em>\r\n\r\nI hope
    for your sake that you don\u2019t mean this seriously.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s obviously
    a blackletter.\r\nIt doesn\u2019t have serifs.\r\nSo blackletter faces can\u2019t
    be classified as serif typefaces.\r\nQuod erat demonstrandum.\r\n\r\n<em>contemporary
    adaptation</em>\r\nThis is a bit older:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gutenberg_6595.jpg]\r\nWhere
    are the serifs here?"
  created: '2009-10-28 11:54:42'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I can find as many historical examples with \"serifs\" as you can find without.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bl_6314.png]\r\n\r\nFrom
    a scribal exercise c. 13th century. See the serifs! You say potato I say potato
    :-)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-28 12:57:36'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>You say potato I say potato</em>\r\n\r\nWhat you call serifs in blackletter
    is something that accidentally (I don\u2019t mean this in a negative way) happens
    when writing with a broad nip pen. That\u2019s what I meant with ductus. It can
    be exagerated for an ornamental effect but it isn\u2019t an essential part of
    the concept of a blackletter face."
  created: '2009-10-28 13:36:18'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "What you call serifs in Roman letters is something that [\u2026] happens
    when writing [\u2026]. That\u2019s what I meant with ductus. It can be exaggerated
    for an ornamental effect but <a href=\"http://new.typographica.org/2008/typeface-reviews/beorcana/\">it
    isn\u2019t an essential part of the concept of a Roman face</a>.\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-10-28 13:50:30'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I didn\u2019t say that serifs make a roman face.\r\nStill, if there are serifs
    on a roman face they are there on purpose and not as a side effect. And they come
    from *see my avatar*.\r\n\r\nMichael would call this a serif (see left), but it\u2019s
    not. (It\u2019s a spur.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SerifSpur_3944.jpg]"
  created: '2009-10-28 14:22:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Somewhere out there is a forest behind those trees :-) Possibly a\"black\"letter
    forest with serifs!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-28 16:07:56'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "p.s. Spurs would be more akin to the tops of the k and l in your contemporary
    adaptation above. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-28 16:14:06'
- author:
    name: rcapeto
  body: Back to topic, no system of classification of blackletter letterforms that
    I know of are related to "serifs" (or whatever you may call those elements) in
    any case, while for Roman type they're a key element in most classification schemes.
  created: '2009-10-28 17:48:12'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'In the "older" specimen, the serifs are great big diamonds. They are separate
    strokes that mark the ends of the stems. This sample even has some <A HREF="http://www.typophile.com/node/58521">contextual
    semi-serif</A> choices: The u in "fleuit", most notably, is missing its top serifs.'
  created: '2009-10-28 19:47:24'
- author:
    name: nomhak
  body: "Thanks a lot guys! Especially Jan and Michael, and from the looks of it Michael,
    it does look like something I'll have to make up as I go along and support it
    thoroughly. \r\n\r\nMuch appreciated guys!"
  created: '2009-10-29 02:26:56'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Rui\r\n\r\nI am a calligrapher and lettering artist and have a huge \"letter\"
    library. If you need examples let me know. They are at your disposal, serifs or
    not :-)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-10-29 02:44:42'
- author:
    name: spacecadetjoe
    picture: 117745
  body: wtf is a serif? all i see is dongles
  created: '2009-10-29 03:00:32'
- author:
    name: Robb Thurmond
  body: 'I''m taking a calligraphy class, with one teacher a master at Blackletter,
    and the other a type designer, and I am pretty sure I have heard it referred to
    as a serif....but I think I like dongles : )'
  created: '2009-10-29 06:49:55'
- author:
    name: Robb Thurmond
  body: and for the record, most of the teachers dongles are drawn in after the fact
  created: '2009-10-29 06:51:07'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'Remaining slightly off-topic: Jan, I think that the prevailing view nowadays
    is that in fact the serifs of the imperial Roman letter come not from the necessities
    of stone-carving but from the stroke of the brush. I''m certainly no expert in
    this area, but I believe the idea originates with (or was popularized by) Father
    Edward Catich''s book <em><a href=http://www.amazon.com/Origin-Serif-Brush-Writing-Letters/dp/0962974013/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1256964826&sr=1-1>The
    origin of the serif</a></em>; Catich argues that the serif follows logically from
    the brush-stroke that was used to lay down the original lettering, which was then
    cut in stone with a chisel. One example I can find that may be of interest (though
    it doesn''t explicitly confirm Catich''s thesis) is Sumner Stone''s <a href=http://stonetypefoundry.com/Resources/Pre-serif%20letter%20excerpt%208..pdf>"Transitions
    in the form of the pre-serif letter."</a>'
  created: '2009-10-31 05:16:44'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "The renaissance was about overcoming the dark age. The designation says it
    all: renaissance = revival. Revival of the spirit of the past Roman culture. Part
    of that revival was replacing the blackletter letterforms with the Roman letterforms.
    The only examples of roman letterforms that had survived the dark age were those
    carved in stone. The first Roman typefaces (Venetian style) were more or less
    the Roman capitals with a lowercase added. Why or for what reason the Romans added
    serifs to their letters is not as important in this context as the fact (imo)
    that the venetian typefaces had serifs that were modeled after those carved in
    stone. That\u2019s my point."
  created: '2009-10-31 17:15:44'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Jan\r\n\r\nI have pondered your response for a while now and I ended up speaking
    with one published historian (numerous books) and a renowned master of calligraphy
    and type design, and author (60 years) and they concurred, you just do not get
    it... and to not waste my time. \r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 01:18:00'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Concur with whatever. At least I got you in doubt if you got it right.
  created: '2009-11-02 01:33:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Never in doubt...  and you need to do some research because your last post
    is riddled with misinformation. I have no clue where you are getting your info
    but Blackletter was only one of many concurrent written styles. And written forms
    never disappeared in the dark ages.\r\n\r\nLook beyond \"type\" which is something
    many cannot seem to do. Calligraphy kept, and keeps, developing while type in
    its vast array of processes moves forward also.\r\n\r\nEdit: serifs never went
    away!!!!!!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 01:50:07'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<em>Never in doubt</em>\r\n\r\nYou consulted an expert.\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nI
    admit that what I wrote is probably a very basic view of things. Could you tell
    me what you consider to be actually wrong?"
  created: '2009-11-02 02:04:01'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Michael & Jan,\r\n \r\nwhat about [S]word Fighting? :)"
  created: '2009-11-02 02:14:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No, I asked two peers if there was any leeway for you. They said no, and
    it was NO surprise to me. \r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 03:52:28'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"what about [S]word Fighting?\"\r\n\r\nSerif or Sans?\r\n\r\nDavid, thank
    you for your intervention... but this is a battle I am well prepared for after
    decades of lettering/calligraphic experience as well as research.\r\n\r\nI think
    Jan's sense of history begins with the advent of type and he has no clue what
    went on before that or the calligraphic developments that have ensued along side
    of the printing/type industry since the 42 line bible.\r\n\r\nBut he is good at
    identifying type and chastising others for not using a descriptive in the type
    id forum.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 04:24:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Looking at the books of Harry Carter and Noordzij, among others, I think
    Michael is pretty much on target. Even though the forms of blackletter and roman
    are different the histories are related and intertwined, and I don't think you
    are going to be able to make a case that one has serifs and one does not. \r\n\r\nI'm
    sure others will be more accurate about this, but basically it is the designs
    that are different, not whether there are deliberate cross strokes or not. Those
    triangles at the bottom of black letter n etc are cross strokes. The key design
    difference of blackletter is, as the term \"fraktur\" indicates, that instead
    of round archs and circles of roman, there are broken straight lines. \r\n\r\nHistorically,
    the serifs in Carolingian miniscule and in later Blackletter are, from what I
    read, both historically and mechanically related. And they all go back to various
    roman hands in antiquity, such as the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rustic_capitals|Rustic
    capitals]], which also have serifs. The humanist hand, in which the Carolingian
    minuscule was revived and paired with the Imperial Capitals was, according to
    Stone's account, the immediate ancestors of the first Roman typefaces. In this
    15th century revival serifs were made more symmetrical in the lower case, to pair
    better with the ancient Imperial Capitals. \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-02 05:07:05'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: Thank you William for answering my question since Michael seems to be too
    busy with having decades of lettering/calligraphic experience.
  created: '2009-11-02 11:08:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Comes in handy sometimes :-)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 13:51:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Michael wields the pen and brush like a Zen master. He wields the forum post
    like [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4eo0OY8GOuc|Yosemite Sam]] :) '
  created: '2009-11-02 14:05:11'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Sorry William... but I fatigue easily with non pen players taking over the
    saloon with barroom balderdash :-0\r\n\r\nI am really quite snuggly once you cut
    through the meanness : )))))) All kidding aside I love what I do, and I won't
    see it misrepresented... thank you very much. Too many techies are trying to redefine
    the parameters of where our letters came from, and definitions, with little or
    no practical knowledge and I for one am armed for bear. (Do you want to sit down
    and talk about manipulation? Tee hee) Yosemite Sam has nothing on me : ) I wuv
    Pepe : ) Esta mi amigo, es la verdad!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-02 17:27:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "So you do not agree that knowledge-by-having-read-something is worth more
    than knowledge-by-practice?&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nBtw, the question 'does blackletter
    have serifs or not?' is relativated by Noordzij's Ruit (including its name) whose
    feet are halfway between 'serif' and 'ductus'. In light of this, ironically, Jan
    Erdmann's textur sample of 28 October is much closer to having 'serifs' than your
    sample of the same day because in the former, the (imaginary) backward-movement
    of the pen is more excessive and creates a symmetry we would expect from baseline
    serifs. Also, it seems common to give stems marked endings in writing, irrespective
    of style. In textur this is very emphatic (Jan Erdmann's 'ductus') but has no
    other purpose than have curved endings or what we commonly consider as serif.
    Tapering of stems e.g. in Beorcana, since Florian brought it up, fulfills the
    same task. Whether one <em>calls</em> each of them 'serifs' or not is almost secondary.\r\nAnd
    another btw, I consider serifs as too arbitrary to be relevant for type classification,
    construction and contrast being more important criteria."
  created: '2009-11-02 20:22:05'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: "I say terminals and spurs... or spur-like terminals :P\r\n\r\nI stick with
    the Blackletter classification rather than trying to assert rhetoric that occurred
    de facto."
  created: '2009-11-02 20:40:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: ":-) \r\n\r\nIt just keeps getting more stupid.\r\n\r\n\"Jan Erdmann\u2019s
    textur sample of 28 October is much closer to having \u2019serifs\u2019 than your
    sample of the same day because in the former, the (imaginary) backward-movement
    of the pen is more excessive and creates a symmetry we would expect from baseline
    serifs\"\r\n\r\nAnd this one gets the Putz prize. If you think it is a backward
    motion it just points out what I have said before. Sometimes practice (knowledge
    by practice, your words) of writing would prevent one from making a statement
    like that! \r\n\r\nP.s. Jan's e.g. was type (if I am not mistaken or I would bet,
    you can see the letterpress marks)... the red was writ.\r\n\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-03 00:16:09'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: My sample was from the Gutenberg bible. Type. Print. Indeed.
  created: '2009-11-03 00:59:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "See, Jan I'm not so stupid (see my allusion above to the 42 line bible)!
    It is just that continuing practice (and research) that kicks in :-)\r\n\r\nAnd
    you have to remember... as good as they were, the \"cutters\" of that time were
    not as fastidious about maintaining the original forms. It's tougher to get the
    hairline serifs in cuts. Expediency pure and simple. Oft times less articulate
    than the written form.\r\n\r\nEdit: to the above contributor... there is a HUGE
    difference between a spur and a serif, and a terminal is a very generic term compared
    to the other two.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-11-03 04:03:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Did you notice the little "(imaginary)" before the "backward-movement"?
  created: '2009-11-03 09:46:24'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: "\"to the above contributor... there is a HUGE difference between a spur and
    a serif, and a terminal is a very generic term compared to the other two.\"\r\n\r\nGeneric
    is kinda the point. My point is that the terminology wasn't standardized when
    these pen strokes were made. I'm not suggesting that what I use to describe these
    \"grey area\" strokes be canonized in any way. But we can't classify every pen
    stroke. And I think there's nothing wrong with that. I kind of see it as a moot
    point. "
  created: '2009-11-05 01:36:39'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I'll never understand this!\r\n\r\nBut this is really a great read. Keep
    up the passion.\r\n\r\nI heard recently passion can lead to compassion (along
    the lines of the Bible). And i'm glad people here have such spirited dialogue\r\n\r\n\r\nNow
    as an aside--there seems to be a RIFF on the subject of seRIFs.\r\n\r\nOk that
    was, intentionally, so, so bad. I shall now shoot myself"
  created: '2009-11-05 23:14:04'
- author:
    name: E.Jacobson
    picture: 114464
  body: read whole thread. foot plus mouth a bit Typerror and I were saying the same
    thing. I was just bringing the perspective of having to describe certain faces
    to my students. D'OH!
  created: '2009-11-06 04:19:44'
- author:
    name: brwolfgurl
    picture: 112167
  body: "I enjoy the rather spirited discussion, but hopefully am not confused\r\nas
    a 2009 graphic design grad from art school about Blackletter being\r\nconsidered
    serif as well? Thanks Michael for clearing it up for me. I\r\nhave always viewed
    Blackletter typefaces as having serifs, but that may\r\nbe my inexperienced eye,
    I was never sure. \r\n\r\nBonnie :)"
  created: '2011-04-07 06:55:48'
date: '2009-10-27 18:02:26'
title: Serif Classification - Blackletter

---
