---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "At ATypI last week at the request of the IE team I asked for font community
  input on the various Web font formats. I\u2019m posting the details here and encourage
  feedback from the font community. \r\n \r\nWOFF: Microsoft continues to evaluate
  the format, and are encouraged that it was developed by people within the typeface
  and browser communities, and that it differentiates web fonts from desktop fonts.
  It is also encouraging to note that some type designers and vendors have voiced
  \u201Csupport\u201D for the format. EOT started with a long list of supporters too,
  so  we would like to see WOFF supporters and other foundries start licensing fonts
  in the format before we jump on board.\r\n \r\nEOT/CWT: Given browser upgrade cycles
  it will be vital for font foundries, as well as fonts-as-a-service providers to
  offer fonts in the EOT format alongside raw and WOFF. We are aware that some in
  the font community have proposed removing URL-binding (tying a font to a specific
  domain) and compression in a EOT-derived Web font format dubbed CWT. We support
  attempts to differentiate web fonts from document fonts, but note that in removing
  URL-binding this format no longer conforms to the OpenType spec\u2019s definition
  of document font embedding.\r\n \r\nRaw fonts: Raw-fonts have a part to play in
  the Web font ecosystem, in particular around free and open source fonts. However
  to help prevent accidental posting and linking of unlicensed fonts we\u2019re investigating
  two possible restrictions. Firstly requiring same-domain linking, meaning fonts
  must be located on the domain as the referring Web pages. Secondly only allowing
  \u201Cinstallable embedding\u201D fonts to be used. As we do not propose changing
  the OpenType font specification\u2019s definition of \u201Cinstallable embedding\u201D
  it would still be the responsibility of web site creators to confirm that the font
  license allows raw-font linking. We are particularly interested in font community
  feedback on this approach.     \r\n\r\nThanks, Si\r\n\r\nsimonda@...\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...note that in removing URL-binding this format no longer conforms to
    the OpenType spec\u2019s definition of document font embedding.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    are saying that the OpenType spec's definition of font \u2018embedding\u2019 as
    it relates to web fonts requires URL binding, yes? So in effect you recognise
    two different kinds of font linking, one of which constitutes \u2018document font
    embedding\u2019 because the fonts are bound to a particular URL. Is that correct?
    Can you point me to the part of the OT spec that explains this? I've looked, and
    I don't see anything that would lead obviously to this interpretation of the word
    \u2018embedding\u2019.\r\n\r\nSince the non-IE browser makers have explicitly
    rejected URL binding -- hence why it is not included in the CWT format --, by
    your definition there are no embedded fonts in use with those browsers -- yes?
    -- even though the mechanism of linking may be identical to IE EOT linking excepting
    URL binding?\r\n\r\nThis looks to me like a recipe for confusion; indeed, it is
    a recipe that we're already tasting.\r\n\r\n<em>Secondly only allowing \u201Cinstallable
    embedding\u201D fonts to be used. As we do not propose changing the OpenType font
    specification\u2019s definition of \u201Cinstallable embedding\u201D it would
    still be the responsibility of web site creators to confirm that the font license
    allows raw-font linking.</em>\r\n\r\nAny free or open source font will have a
    license that permits format conversion, hence I don't see any reason at all for
    supporting raw font linking. You get the same mileage from supporting WOFF, with
    the added benefit of format-side compression."
  created: '2009-11-03 04:15:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "If a font is not encapsulated within a document or tied to it (via a binding
    type mechanism) then it's not document font embedding. I do not believe there's
    any confusion here, as font EULAs typically say what's okay and what isn't, supplementing
    the permissions bits. \r\n\r\nIn my opinion the additional hoop of format conversion
    would have been a good one, but we've moved beyond that now. I don't think the
    other browsers are considering dropping support for raw fonts.   \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-03 04:58:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si, I think no one would disagree that a font \u2018encapsulated within a
    document\u2019 is embedded. What seems to me problematic is the assertion that
    \u2018tied to a document\u2019 also constitutes embedding. The former is common
    usage and understandable from non-specialist usage of the word embedded; the latter
    is a stretch, and to say that it is \u2018the OpenType spec's definition of document
    font embedding\u2019 is a really big stretch, because this is what the OT spec
    says re. the OS/2 fsType bits (the only part of the spec font embedding is discussed:\r\n\r\n<em>Embeddable
    fonts may be stored in a document.</em>\r\n\r\nStored <strong><em>in</em></strong>
    a document. The spec doesn't say anything about \u2018tied to a document\u2019,
    nor any other wording that would lead obviously to such an interpretation. It
    simply isn't normal English usage to equate embedding with some kind of strong
    linking. Embedded reporters in Iraq operate within army units; they're not strapped
    to the outside of the humvee.\r\n\r\n<em>In my opinion the additional hoop of
    format conversion would have been a good one, but we\u2019ve moved beyond that
    now. I don\u2019t think the other browsers are considering dropping support for
    raw fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nFor free and open source fonts, format conversion is barely
    a hoop. The same sites that make the TTF files available can make the WOFF files
    available. In neither commercial web font licensing nor in distribution of free
    and open source fonts is anyone anticipating end-user format conversion. That
    really is something we've moved beyond.\r\n\r\nBut while we've moved beyond end-user
    format conversion, we've spent months -- successfully -- moving Mozilla and other
    browser makers toward a web-specific font format. Sure, those browsers that already
    support raw font linking are not going to remove such support, but that support
    is meaningless if an interoperable format acceptable to the majority of font vendors
    is implemented. And such a format works just as well and in exactly the same way
    for free and open source fonts.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, I am concerned that if IE starts
    supporting raw font linking, even with the restriction that it only applies to
    fonts with the installable embedding bit set, then you will encourage an \u2018ecosystem\u2019
    in which TTFs and OTFs are uploaded to web servers, an ecosystem in which all
    the other browsers will be ignoring the embedding bits. As I wrote to the W3C
    list in August, I think the argument that raw font linking for free and open source
    fonts is somehow magically separate from the issue of unlicensed use of commercial
    fonts is a na\xEFve fantasy:\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/1316.html\r\n\r\n___\r\n\r\nYou
    wrote above re. WOFF support: <em>EOT started with a long list of supporters too.</em>\r\n\r\nMonotype
    and Adobe, if I recall. Who else?\r\n\r\nAnd why, for ten years, did EOT go nowhere?
    Primarily because it only worked on one browser. So that should tell you that
    the success of a web font format is dependent on browser interoperability, not
    on advanced sign-up from font vendors. You need the format to be agreeable to
    font vendors, but it is the implementation in the browsers that will make it successful.\r\n\r\nEOT
    was a format that the makers of IE wanted font vendors to support. WOFF is a format
    that makers of fonts want IE to support. That seems to me an important distinction."
  created: '2009-11-03 06:15:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I don\u2019t want to editorialize too much as the point of this post is to
    solicit feedback. The \u201CURL-binding = font embedding\u201D discussion with
    the foundries took place ahead of this <A HREF=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fontpack/pr.htm\">press
    release</A> which also lists out the long list of \u201Csupporters\u201D. People
    are free to argue this point, but it seems largely academic as foundries have
    moved on.\r\n\r\nWith respect to raw fonts, the argument that IE is the only thing
    holding back the floodgates of abuse, seems a bit disingenuous. Foundries are
    lining up to license their fonts through Typekit and similar services, and the
    other browsers don\u2019t seem to be backing away from raw-font support. In addition
    given browser upgrade cycles it could be years before WOFF support reaches even
    half the browser  install base.      \r\n"
  created: '2009-11-03 15:47:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The font makers to whom I have spoken who are making use of Typekit-like
    services are doing so because such services offer various kinds of server-side
    obfuscation as protections of the font. If these services were simply serving
    raw TTFs or OTFs direct from their servers to users' browser caches, then foundries
    would be no more interested in these services than they are in raw font linking.
    I've discussed this with a lot of colleagues, and very few people are open at
    all to raw font linking per se -- this is why <em>font makers</em> developed WOFF
    --; raw font linking with server side obfuscation seems acceptable to some people,
    but not to everyone. Further, the Typekit people are themselves in favour of a
    single interoperable format, so that they can move away from serving multiple
    formats, and seem to understand that they will attract more foundries if they
    are able to completely bypass raw fonts as a format (which they will be able to
    for Firefox 3.6).\r\n\r\n<em>...other browsers don\u2019t seem to be backing away
    from raw-font support.</em>\r\n\r\nIn the Spring of this year, raw font linking
    was being pushed by the non-IE browsers as the preferred interoperable web font
    format. Since then, they've pretty much stopped talking about it, in the case
    of Mozilla have worked with font makers to develop and implement WOFF, and have
    even tested CWT implementations. No one is expecting them to remove the raw font
    linking that they already have, but they have certainly backed away from it as
    a viable interoperable format, mainly because both font makers and Microsoft have
    said that they find it an unacceptable risk to font IP. The point I am making
    above is that even with the proposed limit to fonts with installable embedding
    bits, the active encouragement of raw font linking increases the risk to font
    IP. If you want to protect font IP on the web, the easiest way to do so is to
    avoid a mechanism that takes TTFs and OTFs and gives them away to every visitor
    to a webpage. Trying to limit that mechanism on one browser to fonts with a specific
    fsType bit setting doesn't seem to me worthwhile, because a) it encourages use
    of a format that other browsers will not limit and b) just makes your browser
    seem less capable than those other browsers to the average user."
  created: '2009-11-03 18:48:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In addition given browser upgrade cycles it could be years before WOFF
    support reaches even half the browser install base.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is a very
    good argument in favour of CWT (EOTL as was). Which I have been saying since June,
    despite my misgivings about the format and my preference for WOFF. CWT needs to
    be taken seriously, by font vendors, web authors and browsers, because it does
    provide a broadly compatible interim web font format.\r\n\r\nRaw font linking
    won't be taken seriously by most commercial font vendors, excepting insofar as
    some measures of server-side obfuscation are acceptable to some. Since an IE implementation
    of raw font linking limited to free and open source fonts with installable embedding
    is not practically compatible with the non-restricted implementations of the other
    browsers, i.e. web authors won't be able to use the same fonts reliably across
    browsers unless they are free or open source fonts, it does nothing to solve web
    font interoperability in a way that is meaningful to professionals. As MST demonstrated
    last year, with Ascender's help, most free fonts are not worth what one pays for
    them."
  created: '2009-11-03 18:58:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>The \u201CURL-binding = font embedding\u201D discussion with the
    foundries took place ahead of this press release which also lists out the long
    list of \u201Csupporters\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, this is helpful information.
    You see, I presume, how a discussion that took place more than a dozen years ago,
    and didn't involve many of the people now engaged in making fonts and discussing
    web fonts, and whose equation of \u2018URL-binding = font embedding\u2019 doesn't
    seem to be documented anywhere, might not be the best source of information for
    the current discussion. I'm not trying to be difficult, only to determine who
    thinks what and why, since clearly people have different interpretations of what
    embedding means. It would be really, really nice though, if \u2018the OpenType
    spec\u2019s definition of document font embedding\u2019 were actually included
    in the OpenType spec!"
  created: '2009-11-03 20:01:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks for these comments. Will pass them back to the IE team.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2009-11-03 20:08:37'
- author:
    name: devoinregress
    picture: 116263
  body: "\"we would like to see WOFF supporters and other foundries start licensing
    fonts in the format before we jump on board\"\r\nLooks like a chicken and egg
    scenario.\r\n\r\n\"same-domain linking\" is enabled by default in FireFox and
    Opera from what I have experienced. There is also a condition to disable this
    in .htaccess files for font servers. Webkit based browsers ignore this for now.\r\n\r\nI
    am so sick of all these different formats. Using browser detection and redirects
    at least I can bypass the format wars and serve IE the proper EOT files and other
    browsers raw fonts keeping my css down to a single rule. However it would be great
    if everyone came to one conclusion."
  created: '2009-11-03 21:38:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '*tracking*'
  created: '2009-11-03 23:34:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Looks like a chicken and egg scenario.\r\n\r\nIn a way, yes. But as noted
    \"if you build it they will come\" didn't work out so well for EOT, even with
    IE having 90%+ market share. \r\n\r\n>I am so sick of all these different formats.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Wikipedia something like 25% of web users are using IE6 and Windows XP. So
    unless the other browsers start supporting an EOT compatible format you'll need
    to continue to serve multiple formats for the foreseeable future. That doesn\u2019t
    seem to be on the cards. In addition although we might see convergence around
    WOFF within the next decade, I doubt we'll see any convergence around font rendering
    across all the devices, displays, OSs and browsers. So to get the best results
    you'll likely need to serve multiple fonts, even if they're all WOFF. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 01:25:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>In a way, yes. But as noted \u201Cif you build it they will come\u201D
    didn\u2019t work out so well for EOT, even with IE having 90%+ market share.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think a lot of font makers lost interest in web fonts around the time that IE
    went with EOT and Netscape went with TrueDoc. It seemed clear at that point that
    there wasn't going to be a unified font format, and the fact that IE subsequently
    ended up with such a huge share of the browser market didn't seem to affect the
    perception, repeated by just about every Net analyst and journalist, that web
    typography was something that would have to wait. Also, EOT, contra TrueDoc, was
    seen as a salvo in the browser war, and once the war was effectively won Microsoft's
    own enthusiasm for EOT seemed to largely disappear until early this year. Partly
    this is doubtless Microsoft's perennial problem of poor evangelisation (of which
    WPF is the latest victim), but it also looked like a lack of interest in the weapons
    once the battle was won.\r\n\r\nEOT was also badly positioned in terms of providing
    or even suggesting to font vendors a viable business model. Microsoft rolled out
    a tool that enabled end users to make EOT fonts from existing TTFs, and I think
    a lot of font vendors were left scratching their heads wondering how to monetise
    this arrangement. It is telling that this time around a lot of the discussion
    among font vendors has been focused very much on how to monetise web fonts, and
    also telling that end user format conversion is very much not part of the emerging
    picture.\r\n\r\nFurther, EOT was not a publicly specified format until earlier
    this year, leaving a lot of questions among font makers about how or whether it
    might be implemented in other non-IE browsers, as well as how to build EOT into
    foundries' creation, QA and delivery workflows. These are both key factors in
    the shaping of the WOFF format.\r\n\r\nFinally, as it turned out, Microsoft's
    own EOT implementation is buggy. It doesn't work with CFF OpenType fonts, and
    the IE @font-face implementation fails to support font family style linking correctly.\r\n\r\nI
    think there are a lot of reasons why font makers didn't rush to embrace EOT. Once
    again, I'll point out that the crucial difference that EOT was a technology that
    Microsoft wanted to give to font makers, while WOFF is a technology that font
    makers want to give to Microsoft."
  created: '2009-11-04 01:49:36'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "<cite>CWT needs to be taken seriously, by font vendors, web authors and browsers,
    because it does provide a broadly compatible interim web font format.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhere
    can we read more about CWT?"
  created: '2009-11-04 02:16:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "CWT -- Compatibility Web Type -- is the new name for the format put forward
    by Ascender Corp. as EOTL (EOT Lite). A new name was recommended by participants
    on the W3C font list in order to remove confusion about what browsers supporting
    the new format should do when encountering \u2018classic\u2019 EOT fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    purpose of CWT is to provide a format that is compatible with existing EOT font
    support in Internet Explorer versions 6\u20138 (hence \u2018compatibility\u2019),
    while avoiding those aspects of EOT that were rejected by the non-IE browser makers.
    The CWT format does not use URL binding, which was the major objection to EOT
    from the browser makers, since this mechanism was viewed as a form of DRM.\r\n\r\nI
    believe a formal spec for CWT is in development, based on discussions on the W3C
    list.\r\n\r\nThe obvious benefit of CWT is that it makes it possible to license
    and ship web fonts that work on the majority of browsers now in use, including
    the significant install base of IE6. However, due to bugs in the IE 6\u20138 EOT
    support on which CWT would rely in those browsers, there will likely be a distinction
    between the CWT format spec as it would be implemented by future browsers, and
    specific recommendations for making fonts that will work with IE 6\u20138 (e.g.
    TTF only). In other words, a CWT font built to be compatible with IE 6\u20138
    would also work with new CWT implementations in future browsers, but a CWT font
    built to spec might not work in those older browsers. Make sense?"
  created: '2009-11-04 02:54:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "John, if you\u2019re interested in the history of this subject I can certainly
    provide you with the actual series of events with accurate dates - for example
    the date on the current EOT specification is March 2008 (contradicting your \"early
    this year\" claim). \r\n\r\nToday there are three browsers that support raw fonts,
    one that supports EOT and none that support WOFF. I would imagine IE is not alone
    in thinking about WOFF support and I don\u2019t think it\u2019s unreasonable for
    browser makers including IE to want to see if font makers are serious about supporting
    it.  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.w3.org/Submission/EOT/\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/info/eot-lite-wrap-tool/ "
  created: '2009-11-04 03:40:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry, yes I meant early in 2008, not 2009. Still more than a decade after
    EOT was first rolled out. My point is that, between the demise of Netscape and
    Opera's introduction of raw font linking, Microsoft's own interest in EOT seemed
    lukewarm. The fact that the actual implementation in IE has been buggy for all
    that time seems to say something about how seriously EOT was taken both inside
    about outside MS.\r\n\r\n<em>I would imagine IE is not alone in thinking about
    WOFF support...</em>\r\n\r\nMozilla are past the thinking about it stage and have
    already committed to supporting WOFF in Firefox 3.6.\r\n\r\nLet me state very
    clearly that I hope non-IE browsers will take the step of supporting CWT, and
    hence provide an at least partially backwards compatible interim solution to web
    fonts, as this will make things easier for web authors in the immediate future.
    But enthusiasm for this format among commercial font foundries is pretty limited:
    some of the bigger companies are interested, but most of the independents are
    not. So I think there is a genuine chicken and egg situation for CWT in that only
    increased browser support and a considerable user base will overcome the reluctance
    of many font makers to engage with that format.\r\n\r\nEnthusiasm for WOFF is
    already pretty high among font makers, but as the experience of EOT shows, no
    web font format is going to take off without multi-browser support. Looking to
    font vendors to start actively licensing and shipping for a format before it is
    supported in more than one browser is putting the cart before the horse. Some
    of these people got burned by GX, remember, and they're wary about touching anything
    that isn't supported by at least two major entities. A commitment from MS to support
    WOFF in IE 9 would go a long way toward turning today's enthusiasm into shipping
    fonts. Otherwise we're still in the late \u201990s and IE is supporting one format
    and Netscape's children are supporting another and the font makers are going to
    sit it out again. The ball really is in the browser makers court: the uncertainty
    isn't being generated by the font makers. We'll support the format(s) that a)
    do not involve giving away our font IP to every visitor to a website, and b) are
    supported on two or more major browsers (and, frankly, there are only three major
    browsers: IE, Firefox and Safari, with the latter having an artificially high
    significance relative to market share).\r\n\r\nIdeally, I'd like to see MS and
    Mozilla mutually commit to support both CWT and WOFF, so that font makers and
    users know where we are going both now and in the years ahead."
  created: '2009-11-04 06:02:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">>Looks like a chicken and egg scenario.\r\n\r\nHaving sped on by this issue
    and assumed we will support whatever-the-frig-formats our customers need, I assure
    this is not 'the' chicken and egg situation. So with all due support for all but
    EOT, thanks to Simon for this superb review and for his courage and vigor as an
    OS developer to show up and discuss these issues in real face time.\r\n\r\nWe
    will be supporting all of these formats for the foreseeable future. I disagree
    with John that any burning occurred with GX (please cite examples), or will occur
    with web formats since support of them is no more than a simple translation. Further,
    I don't understand why John continues to cite IP as an issue with <em>any</em>
    font format on the web. \r\n\r\nGood luck, and please be sure, in the end, that
    EOT is distinguished from CWT in the demands put on the font for document embedding
    bits. As Simon says, they must be two different formats, and if the improvement
    is still demanding us to lie, (i.e. need to set embedding bits in order to enable
    linking), we will reject it, as strongly as imaginable. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 12:42:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>please cite examples</em>\r\n\r\nGo talk to Tom Caldwell or Bruno Steinert
    about Linotype's GX experience. I consider investing a lot of time and money in
    a product that you can't sell as being burned.\r\n\r\nI didn't say that people
    would be burned by web fonts -- I agree with you that these are simple translation
    matters --, but was pointing out that there are historical reasons why font developers
    might be cautious about flying the flag for as-yet-unsupported font formats. They
    were similarly cautious about OpenType, and I think Adobe's involvement tipped
    the balance for a lot of people, because that meant it wouldn't be a Windows-only
    format. Similarly, font vendors are looking for multi-browser support for web
    font formats. And while you might think it foolish, the simple fact is that most
    font vendors do not like the idea of raw font linking because they consider it
    an unacceptable risk.\r\n\r\n<em>As Simon says, they must be two different formats...</em>\r\n\r\nSimon
    says that? Where? Funny, I thought I was the one saying that, the one writing
    analysis and reccomendations re. use of embedding bits in web fonts to ensure
    that your concerns are addressed, the one suggesting a change of name for EOTL
    to clearly differentiate it from EOT.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-04 16:13:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...if the improvement is still demanding us to lie, (i.e. need
    to set embedding bits in order to enable linking), we will reject it, as strongly
    as imaginable.</em>\r\n\r\nSee my comments above re. making CWT fonts that are
    actually compatible with existing EOT support in IE. No one has yet documented
    all the dependencies -- although Tal and Karsten have started --, and I'm not
    sure what it might be necessary to do with embedding bits in the CWT header in
    order to make fonts work with IE 6\u20138. In the formal CWT spec, I suspect these
    parts of the header will be treated as padding, i.e. new CWT browser support will
    ignore them, but existing IE implementations won't. So that is a potential problem.\r\n\r\nAnd
    now MS are talking about possible raw font linking but with the requirement that
    embedding bits be set to <em>installable</em>.\r\n\r\nSo as far as \u2018supporting
    whatever-the-frig-formats your customers need\u2019 you may be looking at both
    backwards IE-compatible CWT and forwards IE-compatible raw font linking that require
    you to \u2018lie (i.e. need to set embedding bits in order to enable linking)\u2019.\r\n\r\nWOFF
    looking good yet?"
  created: '2009-11-04 17:24:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH><em>\"And why, for ten years, did EOT go nowhere? Primarily because it
    only worked on one browser.\"</em>\r\n\r\n[Forgive my interruption, I have no
    skin in the game, I know, but why start another thread...]\r\nJohn, it's not so.
    There was a time when IE had 90%+ of the browser market. For all practical purposes
    there <strong>was</strong> no \"other browser\". This situation lasted for years.
    Bandwidth was the main problem. File size was a deal-killer. It was a dial-up
    world then. Also, there were so many other, and much bigger problems to solve
    with web technology that choice of fonts was looked upon as a nicety (and a complication)that
    could wait its turn.\r\nIts turn has finally come, that's all. The planets have
    finally aligned.\r\n\r\nJH><em>\"Enthusiasm for WOFF is already pretty high among
    font makers, but as the experience of EOT shows, no web font format is going to
    take off without multi-browser support. Looking to font vendors to start actively
    licensing and shipping for a format before it is supported in more than one browser
    is putting the cart before the horse.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a wrong, wrong assumption,
    and it's being shown as wrong with each and every page using web fonts created
    as we speak.\r\nSquaring the circle of different formats is something web devs
    do before morning coffee. In the overall scheme of things it presents little to
    no barriers. We enjoy the challenge, and this one isn't even that tough, believe
    me.\r\nThe old hands on the IE team, as web devs themselves, are absolutely aware
    of this. This argument won't fly because it just isn't true."
  created: '2009-11-05 01:50:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH><em>\"For free and open source fonts, format conversion is barely a hoop.
    The same sites that make the TTF files available can make the WOFF files available.
    In neither commercial web font licensing nor in distribution of free and open
    source fonts is anyone anticipating end-user format conversion. That really is
    something we\u2019ve moved beyond.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSorry to cherry pick. Also, IMHO,
    incorrect - and by end-user do you mean the web page creator?\r\nReceiving pre-processed
    files is a nice convenience but designers and developers are very, very used to
    tweaking and optimizing. Sub-setting to further reduce file size being a good
    example.\r\nA sizeable segment will insist on that freedom. If they don't have
    it they'll either take the liberty, or pass on buying the font if they think they
    will run any risk of a hassle by the vendor.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 02:11:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...by end-user do you mean the web page creator?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. End-user
    of the font in the sense of the person making licensed use of the font (whether
    commercial or free license) to create something.\r\n\r\n<em>A sizeable segment
    will insist on that freedom. If they don\u2019t have it they\u2019ll either take
    the liberty, or pass on buying the font if they think they will run any risk of
    a hassle by the vendor.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich is their prerogative. Professional designers
    needing specific fonts will obtain appropriate licenses with font vendors, either
    off-the-shelf licenses or, if they need something special, through negotiation.
    This is nothing very new to the professional font market. People who are not willing
    to purchase appropriate licenses at the market rate should use free fonts.\r\n\r\n____\r\n\r\nI
    am about to head off on a business trip, so I won't be contributing more to this
    thread. In any case, I'm at the point where I will probably start repeating myself.
    I have tried to express the perception of EOT and its gone-nowhere-ness from font
    makers, both myself and the colleagues with whom I've exchanged words on the subject
    of web fonts over the past ten years. I'm quite aware that there are other perceptions
    -- Microsoft's, or that of web developers -- and that we probably each consider
    the others' perspective to be flawed or, as you suggest \u2018wrong, wrong\u2019.
    David Berlow has a laser precise reason for rejecting EOT, and I suspect he is
    right that whatever the historical perceptions the equation of embedding with
    linking is an untenable one.\r\n\r\n____\r\n\r\nThis made my day:\r\n\r\nhttp://type101.fontbureau.com/archives/474\r\n\r\nAnd
    I don't think there is really anything else to say."
  created: '2009-11-05 04:01:40'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "WebFonts Working Group is approved by W3C!\r\n\r\nThe announcement went out
    yesterday to all W3C members, and the public announcement is coming soon to the
    News section of the W3C website. For detailed information about the group and
    how to join (if you are interested to participate) please see [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010JanMar/0044.html|the
    announcement on www-font list]].\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVladimir\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 18:29:01'
date: '2009-11-03 03:00:55'
node_type: forum
title: Internet Explorer and EOT, WOFF, and raw fonts

---
