---
author:
  name: jfldesign
body: "I currently use a pc to design but am looking into getting a new computer.\r\n\r\nWhat
  makes a mac better for designing than a pc?\r\n\r\nI do web graphics so wouldn't
  it be a better idea to view my designs in windows (the os that more people will
  be using to view the page).\r\n\r\nWould an old power mac g5 with a dualcore 2.3
  processor be any good?\r\nOtherwise I am going to do a custom core i7 build.\r\n\r\nIt
  just seems that for the money I can get a much better pc, and I do not see how pixels
  look any better on a mac.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know your thoughts. "
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I currently work both on Mac and on PC. I prefer the Mac, simply because it
    stands much less in the way, thus giving me more time and energy to get the job
    done.
  created: '2009-11-05 22:51:13'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "No difference whatsoever, outside of a personal preference.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-05 23:01:45'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "once you do buy a mac,\r\nyou'll never go back...\r\n\r\ntake that for what
    it's worth.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-05 23:09:14'
- author:
    name: jfldesign
  body: I will stick with pc thanks guys. I hope my cintiq works better on windows
    7.
  created: '2009-11-05 23:16:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm with Ivan. For most users, there has been virtually no reason to keep
    waging the Holy OS Wars for a few years now (except some people seem to think
    it's fun).\r\n\r\nThat said, in the case of the original poster I can actually
    think of one good reason for a Mac: It's very easy now to run Windows on Mac as
    well, so you essentially get two OSes on one box \u2013 which is a definite advantage
    for testing web designs. (But this will only work remotely well if you get an
    Intel-based Mac, i.e. newer than a G5.) Your call to decide if that's worth the
    additional cost to you."
  created: '2009-11-05 23:18:36'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I think one of the main reasons to get a Mac if you're a designer is so you
    are more marketable when looking for jobs. I know it's not not necessarily the
    same elsewhere, but in the US, Macs are the standard for design. I've never been
    in an ad agency or in-house design department that used anything else. Sure, the
    programs are going to operate more or less the same, but really knowing the computer,
    especially in in-house design jobs where you're at places with IT departments
    that only know Windows, is a HUGE plus.\r\n\r\nIf you're just planning on working
    on your own, I suppose it doesn't matter much, but if you're looking for a job,
    or if you want to more easily collaborate with most other designers, the advantages
    become pretty clear."
  created: '2009-11-06 01:25:05'
- author:
    name: jfldesign
  body: 'Hmm I can work on a mac fine I really just do not like the fact they are
    so overpriced. I really wanted a good reason to go mac but there is none I guess. '
  created: '2009-11-06 01:31:19'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: Even if you use a Mac, as a web designer it's good to have a PC to see what
    your designs look like on a PC. This assumes you are coding. If you don't code...
    you can ignore this.
  created: '2009-11-06 01:32:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: This mac vs pc thing is such a load of crap. Use what ever you want, eventually
    you will have to use both.
  created: '2009-11-06 02:26:22'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Darn right it is, James.\r\n\r\nWhich ever you choose, It's just a glorified
    pencil & filing cabinet :o)\r\n\r\nI use a PC, because that's what I'm use to.
    \r\n\r\nI once cold started my laptop in the presence of a Mac devotee\u2026 It
    sent him into a fit of \"Oh my gawd, PC's are soooo sloooowww, how can you possibly
    live with that\u2026 your life is melting away while you wait for it to boot up,
    dood\" Now, I was able to comfortably ignore him, because I was aware that a priority
    of Steve Jobs' was to have Macs boot-up fast. OK, Whatever. That's nice, but I
    am able to cope the slow start up my PC laptop is apparently cursed with by planning
    something else constructive to do with the extra 30 seconds or so it takes to
    boot up. And I have learned to just put it into sleep mode if I am going to meet
    with someone who uses a Mac, so it just starts up instantly. :o)\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-06 03:08:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "You signed up just a day ago to start a 'mac vs. pc' thread?\r\n\r\nSeriously?"
  created: '2009-11-06 04:32:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Isn't the obvious answer to buy a Mac and either boot to Windows as needed
    or run Windows under virtualization? That way you retain the investment you've
    made in Windows apps and you're able test your web dev work in browsers cross-platform
    while minimizing your future landfill footprint. The price difference argument
    seems somewhat ridiculous. Perhaps price is important to a hobbyist or home user
    but as a practicing graphic designer you could add $1 to your hourly rate and
    you'd cover the Mac-tax in a couple of months.
  created: '2009-11-06 04:33:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   This mac vs pc thing is such a load of crap.\r\n\r\nthe discussion is
    a waste of time, in the same\r\nway that all religious wars are a waste of time.\r\n\r\nbut
    there's a reason design shops use macs.\r\n\r\nand there's a reason that, if you
    switch to mac,\r\nyou will never go back to the land of windows.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Which ever you choose, It\u2019s just \r\n>   a glorified pencil & filing cabinet
    :o)\r\n\r\nthen by all means, buy a p.c.  please.\r\nbecause i'd hate to see microsoft
    have\r\na second quarter in a row posting a loss.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-06 17:45:19'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@altaira\r\n\r\n<cite>It\u2019s very easy now to run Windows on Mac as well,
    so you essentially get two OSes on one box \u2013 which is a definite advantage
    for testing web designs.</cite>\r\n\r\nMainly with regard to the text rendering,
    but I doubt, that the differences of the CSS interpreter of the browsers of both
    platforms are still important with regard to a buying-decision, if they ever were.
    Aren\u2019t the bugs of the very old browser versions, namely the bugs of the
    IE, well known and documented?\r\n\r\nAnd keep in mind, how many people use a
    Mac:\r\nhttp://www.w3schools.com/browsers/browsers_os.asp\r\n(It\u2019s growing.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    there seem to be services, that make screenshots of your design on different platforms:\r\nhttp://www.browsercam.com/Default2.aspx\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    there are more, less expensive or free services.\r\n\r\nApple disallows the development
    of Mac emulators, as far as I know. Not very sympathetic.\r\n\r\nI would think
    about buying a used Mac notebook and a new PC."
  created: '2009-11-06 19:10:43'
- author:
    name: danauer
    picture: 118242
  body: "I run a Mac, but have both XP and Vista running through virtual machines.
    Honestly? It's a great setup. And I enjoy the luxury of having two machines in
    one box.\r\n\r\nAnd I kind of agree with aluminum, did you just join the site
    to ask a technical question? Kind of seems far-fetched from a network concerned
    with typography.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nDan"
  created: '2009-11-06 20:23:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "While one can run OSX on a Windows PC, it's not officially supported (or
    even allowed).\r\n\r\nAs such, if you're a web developer, it's nice to have a
    Mac for that reason alone. You can easily test a wide range of browsers fairly
    easily.\r\n\r\nThat said, there aren't huge issues in the OSX browsers for the
    most part. You can install Safari on Windows easy enough and Firefox is pretty
    much the same. \r\n\r\nObviously, if you want to get into iPhone dev, having a
    Mac is a prerequisite. \r\n\r\n\"It just seems that for the money I can get a
    much better pc\"\r\n\r\nIf that's how you feel, then there's your answer. It depends
    on your region and how much effort one wants to put into DIY. When I comparison
    shop, I don't usually find the Macs to be more much more expensive (if at all)
    for what I'm getting. You can definitely get cheaper PCs, of course, but rarely
    will they have the same specs/niceties. \r\n\r\nI use both all the time and if
    you really need to ask 'Mac vs. PC' then it really doesn't matter to you and/or
    you're just trolling for the sport of it. If you don't need to ask Mac Vs. PC
    it'd because you've used both and know the answer already. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-06 20:25:33'
- author:
    name: jfldesign
  body: I was just asking a question you babies grow up.
  created: '2009-11-06 21:16:05'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: If you want to pay for cachet, by all means, buy a Mac and drink the Kool-Aid...
  created: '2009-11-06 22:52:50'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I was just asking a question you babies grow up.</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People/dp/0671723650|Perhaps
    you need this!]]"
  created: '2009-11-06 23:12:02'
- author:
    name: squodge
    picture: 118369
  body: "I've only just joined this group, but I'll give my 2p's worth.\r\n\r\nI have
    both a PC and a Mac. Which do I prefer for general use? The PC. Which do I prefer
    for creative use? The Mac.\r\n\r\nPC: Great for general use because almost all
    software is developed for PCs. The only software I can think of that I would use
    that isn't for PC is Adobe Aperture. Also, the only IM program I use is MSN, which
    as far as I know isn't available for Mac.\r\n\r\nMac: Switch on a Mac, and you
    forget that you're using a computer. For those that have never used a Mac, you
    won't understand this until you use one. Macs stay out of the way, and let you
    get on with what you're doing. However, as the OP has already stated, you do need
    to pay A LOT to get a Mac that runs current software blindingly fast.\r\n\r\n~
    squodge ~"
  created: '2009-11-06 23:55:37'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>However, as the OP has already stated, you do need to pay A LOT to
    get a Mac that runs current software blindingly fast.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe latest
    price drop combined with the awesome hardware specs had me order an iMac last
    week <em>pronto</em>. (The smallest model, actually -- 27\" is a bit ... well,
    large.)\r\n\r\nProgramming under Windows is a breeze; I can kick out a console
    based program in mere minutes. I don't think that's quite possible on a Mac (suspiciously
    oogling XCode). On the other hand, I like the odd challenge, and I do look forward
    on Macifying some of my programs, such as [[http://typophile.com/node/45299|FontImage]].\r\n\r\nDesign-wise,
    it'll take some time to gather a same set of tools as I have now at my command,
    and <em>then</em> get used to mouse-ing through dialogs, rather than hitting tab
    and hotkeys ..."
  created: '2009-11-07 00:19:44'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@squodge - you use msn? seriously? the only reason it''s any good to me is
    cause it''s all the xbox will permit (that i know of). switch to skype. heaps
    better. also microsoft has had a version of msn for mac for years. it comes with
    office for mac. fyi.'
  created: '2009-11-07 15:21:15'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "MSN is available for free on Mac.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 16:28:18'
- author:
    name: Bezier Abuser
    picture: 113727
  body: "I don't understand the price argument. It's obvious that you can get a ultra-fast
    PC for half the price of a mac (if you know how to build one yourself, if you
    don't you pay 3/4 of the mac price). But do you need 12gb of ram? For what? 3d
    rendering?\r\nI prefer to spend my money on something less \"hardcore\" and more
    \"softcore\", built with care and decent materials, with a better OS."
  created: '2009-11-07 17:36:01'
- author:
    name: Hilbruks
  body: "I would recommend mac.\r\n\r\nI have used windows for ten years before switching
    to mac. The only times I had trouble with the switch was when I tried to do stuff
    the complicated way.\r\n\r\nI do regularly use pc's now too, but I'm very glad
    I changed to mac. The hardware is a little bit more expensive, but that investment
    will pay itself back many, many times over.\r\n\r\nI'm very nostalgic towards
    pc's, and I enjoy using them, but I would never go back to a pc for working. Not
    a chance."
  created: '2009-11-08 10:58:25'
- author:
    name: jfldesign
  body: "Thanks for the info guys. I was kind of hoping that mac had some kind of
    magical thing I was not aware of. Also, for the people this offended sorry I was
    just curious and wanted to come to a place with real professionals to ask the
    question. \r\n\r\nI do quite a bit of 3d so for the money I could build an i7
    machine with a\r\n\r\np6t mother board\r\ni7 920 quad processor \r\n6gig ram\r\nSolid
    state drive\r\n(I have a very nice nvidia quadro already and a nice power supply.)\r\n\r\nfor
    under 1000 and I see no mac that even comes close to that price. It looks like
    I would be paying closer to 4000 for something that is similar.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 18:41:30'
- author:
    name: jhindley
    picture: 117720
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nFirstly - you seem to have come under fire for asking an inappropriate
    question in a forum based around typography...\r\n\r\nThis question is dead my
    friend - It does still get peoples blood pumping though and for all the people
    shouting you down in here - you did get a good response.\r\n\r\nFor me- you answered
    the question yourself. - YOU DO 3D\r\n\r\nI do alot of 3D - high end arch viz
    etc - The only option for me it so to use PC.\r\nI simply cannot do what I need
    to do on a Mac.\r\n\r\nMacs are great - no question - \r\nI am an architect and
    have refused to work at some high profile offices because I walked in to find
    a white office full of Macs and people wearing Thick Black Glasses claiming Form
    Z was the pinnacle of 3D media creation - \r\n\r\nA PC with all its niggles and
    quirks once set up the way I like it does everything I need.\r\n\r\n3D - yep -get
    bags of Ram  - if you can build yourself - make sure your bits are compatible
    - On paper this stuff should all work. In practice you will find bits don't always
    sit nicely together - I spent a year once with a self build running a dual processor
    pc on a single chip because I had all sorts of problems connecting to the internet
    - it was only 1 year later i was able to work out that USB modems with my mobo
    meant high voltage across the mobo and a shut down.\r\n\r\nOnce I got a modem
    that connected with RJ45 problem solved. Its not always this simple.\r\nI have
    had issues with ATI GPU's and I have had endless issues with AMD chips - I like
    you am into Intel\r\n\r\nAMD for me is again not an option - I simply don't trust
    it.\r\n\r\nThe old - Macs are better for GFX argument (which usually comes from
    some tool with a 70's fro and a pair of jesus sandals underclad with brown socks
    - seams showing on the outside and all) IS DEAD - this was down to colour repro
    a long time back and Gamut etc etc. \r\n\r\nI use a PC i have worked in IT retail
    in the past - i know both\r\nI made my choice and its nothing to do with the cache
    of owning a Mac - \r\n\r\nIf a client wanted me because of what i had in my bag
    and not what I have in my head then I don't want to work with them. \r\n\r\nFLAME
    SUIT ON    ~(MAYBE)\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2009-11-09 03:24:16'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Everyone knows design work is more creative on a Mac sheesh!!\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually a fairly recent convert. I too do a lot of motion work (3d and After
    Effects) which (in the past) meant that PC was the way to roll. Not any more though.
    I'm all for Mac.\r\n\r\nI also do a lot of print work - and still believe Macs
    handle larger files better. That said, and this is the major thing I think...none
    of the PCs I've used have come from a complete dealer (i.e, Dell etc) - where
    everything is put in the box knowing it all works together.\r\n\r\nI've always
    found PCs to be very niggly - particularly when you've just acquired it. All sorts
    of peripheral issues etc. Where as, my experience with Macs has been (mostly)
    really straight forward.\r\n\r\nTHAT said, in the future I'll being putting on
    PCs for dedicated 3d work. Their price point just can't be beaten - particularly
    for a render farm.\r\n\r\n\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n<br />\r\n----------\r\n<strong>Paul</strong>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2009-11-09 03:59:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I use Windows but, in light of the versatility that sii describes, will soon
    be buying a Mac.\r\nI do find Apple a very annoying company, though.\r\nApple
    and whoever now makes Norton Anti-virus seem to be having a contest over who can
    annoy me the most with pop-ups urging me to update.\r\nI have never, ever gotten
    iTunes to work right in Windows.\r\nMSFT wants my money. Apple seems to want my
    soul.\r\n(I am an iPhone user, they are halfway there.)\r\n\r\nIn line with termaldesign's
    suggestion:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/How-Talk-Dirty-Influence-People/dp/0671751085/\">Perhaps
    you need this!</a>"
  created: '2009-11-09 18:39:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Even us elitist, hippie, kool-aid drinking, Steve Jobs fan-boy, uber snobs
    hate iTunes. '
  created: '2009-11-09 19:11:49'
- author:
    name: jhindley
    picture: 117720
  body: "I LOVE I-TUNES \r\nApart from the incessant updating I think its bloody ace\r\n\r\nWindows
    Media P(s)layer is not the answer\r\nAnd musicmatch -do me a favour.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is there that is nearly as good as Itunes - \r\n\r\nwww.the-cave.co.uk"
  created: '2009-11-10 02:32:10'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "I use a Mac.\r\n\r\nI used to have qualms with PCs, but they are okay. I
    just do not like the way most look. Or rather:\r\n\r\nI don't like Dell monitors.\r\nI
    don't like Dell keyboards.\r\nI don't like Dell towers.\r\nI don't like Dell keyboards.\r\n\r\nDell
    is what surrounds me. \r\n\r\nBut I hate most PC laptops. The aesthetic is lacking.\r\n\r\nBut
    Windows is fine by and large. It works for so many. I just don't have the patience
    to maintain it; OS X fortunately babysits me."
  created: '2009-11-10 04:03:53'
- author:
    name: lucifermonkey
  body: "Apple computers will read Mac and PC truetype fonts. PCs will not read Mac
    specific fonts. Of course, opentype fonts solve this problem. But, if you are
    a designer working on a PC and you get a file from a customer using Mac fonts,
    you will have a problem.\r\n\r\nMacs rule! PCs are good too. :)\r\n\r\n-C"
  created: '2009-11-10 04:44:39'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: For converting fonts between PC/Mac, <a href="http://www.fontlab.com/font-converter/transtype/">TransType</a>
    is $180.
  created: '2009-11-10 06:39:52'
- author:
    name: jfldesign
  body: "Dell Monitors LoL?\r\n\r\nLG Makes most of dell and macs panels. If you get
    a s-ips dell ultrasharp the monitors are just as good as any mac monitor. So I
    have no idea what you are talking about. Apple does not make good monitors especially
    for the price the imacs use a tn panel lol. \r\n\r\nOf course you can not do high
    end work on a dell oem because they do not make a graphic design machine.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 15:06:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What is there that is nearly as good as Itunes\"\r\n\r\nAnd there's the
    frustration. There really isn't anything else as good. Which really says a lot
    about the rest of the lot. ;)\r\n\r\nMy main gripe with iTunes is the one-way
    nature of the concept. Computer to iPod, not in reverse. It's also cloaked in
    a proprietary database format that, if you're not careful, can be a gigantic pain
    to transfer from computer to computer. \r\n\r\nIf the iPod/Touch weren't so damn
    great, we'd never put up with iTunes. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 15:07:02'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>Of course you can not do high end work on a dell oem because they do
    not make a graphic design machine.</em>\r\n\r\nCould you explain this statement,
    with plenty of examples?  This non-designer (who has good things to say about
    both Macs and PCs) is incredulous."
  created: '2009-11-10 17:41:22'
date: '2009-11-05 22:30:22'
title: MAC VS PC

---
