---
author:
  name: Silkjaer
  picture: 114408
body: "I had a lot of doubt if I dared asking for critique in here, so please be gentle
  ;)\r\n\r\nI use fonts a lot, never designed one though, so wanted to give it a shot
  to learn a little more about the details, what makes it more legible etc.\r\n\r\nThis
  is a shot at creating a legible small size font - very early in the process. I think
  especially the \"e\" needs a redo. \r\n\r\nCare to give any comments to help me
  get further? Or should I just delete and start over? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hi, Thomas-\r\n\r\nIf this is your first attempt, my hat off to you; it has
    a very nice feel to it, especially considering your attempt to create a font for
    small size use. More narrow design would work against that goal.\r\n\r\nI did
    notice some of the mistakes I made with my first fonts: 'm' is a bit wide, top
    of 'a' comes a bit too far to the left (overall width is good), your 'u' is a
    bit too wide (compare 'n' and 'u', and since 'u' is open on top, and 'n' is open
    on bottom, u should be a little bit narrower. And indeed, your 'e' does need some
    work. Your arm of 'r' is a bit thin: I did that too when I first started; I just
    cut the 'n' and fiddled with it a little to make it work. It needs more mass on
    the arm. Your 'f' seems odd as well. Why did you decide to slant the terminal?
    You can always do that with a ligature, if you want to leave room fo the dot of
    the i. I would also work a bit more with 'o': the width of it looks good, but
    it seems to try to be an italic. Keep the basic shape more upright, and work with
    counter shape to give it some diagonal stress.\r\n\r\nBut like I first said: a
    very good start."
  created: '2009-11-06 20:47:37'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "Hi Thomas\r\n\r\nI agree with the above. As a first attempt it is very good.\r\nSome
    letters do need work as Tomi said. \r\nThe 'o' looks a bit strange. Maybe too
    much broadnib going compared to the rest of the letters. It is a bit squarish
    looking. Try making it rounder.\r\nI think the 'e' needs a redrawing. It needs
    more weight to the bottom left and needs a bit of a straightening up. It is tilting
    a bit to the right. Try looking at some typefaces\u2019 'e's and 'o's. See how
    the weight is distributed  diffenrently. Also take a look at 'c' while you're
    at it. I know you haven't got a 'c' in your example but it doesn't hurt to read
    ahead. ;-)\r\nThe 'r'. Try lowering the joint of the arm a bit down on the stem
    and thicken the arm. \r\nI think the top of the 'f' is 'curling' a little bit
    too much. Maybe it is just me.\r\n\r\nAnyway nice work.\r\n\r\nHils hos 2Krogh\r\n\r\nMvh
    Magnus Gaarde"
  created: '2009-11-09 07:45:28'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Tomi, Magnus, thanks for your comments! And happy to hear I'm not all lost.\r\n\r\nI
    have been nudging around on the letter forms and attached a new screenshot.\r\n\r\nI
    would like to prepare some more letterforms, but I really get stuck on drawing
    a \"g\". Any tips?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tambourine_4843.png]"
  created: '2009-11-10 18:51:32'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "Ah nice. Much better.\r\n\r\nI know I told you to thicken the arm of the
    'r'. But I could have explained m yself better.\r\nThe place where the arm joins
    the stem is maybe a little too thick now compared to letters like 'm' and 'n'.
    See attached image.\r\nI like the 'f' but I can't quite see the exact shape of
    the terminal in your example. Can you make a bigger image or maybe a pdf?\r\nI
    think the 't' is too light at the bottom.\r\n\r\n\r\nOn drawing a 'g'. How do
    you draw your other letters? Do you start with pen and paper doing sketches or
    are you at it directly on the computer? I think it is easier to make quick sketches
    on paper to get the basic idea of the shape. Do a bunch. Do some with a broadnib
    pen too to get an idea of contrast. Then pick the best and refine it. Then transfer
    it to the computer either by scanning or eyeballing your sketch. \r\nIn Fontlab
    you can then fiddle with points until you are satisfied. But starting in Fontlab
    can be hard if you have no idea of where to put the points to begin with.\r\nHere
    I am pretending that you are using Fontlab but of course any font software of
    your choice will do.\r\n\r\nLooking forward to seeing the next letters.\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/r_5694.png]"
  created: '2009-11-10 20:26:05'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Magnus, yet again thanks for all your comments. Appreciate it!\r\n\r\nI have
    attached an update with a bunch of other letters added to the vocabulary. No \"g\"
    yet though, I am not satisfied with my results.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/carbonized_4123.png]\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/letters_111109.pdf|Attached
    PDF of letters]]"
  created: '2009-11-11 21:18:34'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Awesome. This is looking cool. The ascenders look wayy small, but i don't
    think there's much to do about that, given the type of font. The only crit i have
    right now is that the crossbar of the t is a bit thin. I'm also thinking perhaps
    the upper right corner of the q could be a little more emphasized, though I'm
    guessing it's good like it is in small sizes.\r\n\r\nBri\xE4n"
  created: '2009-11-11 22:00:29'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "Hi. I see a lot of very interesting thing. What size do you have in mind?
    \r\n\r\nIMVHO, you need to work on the letter at those 'small sizes' you are referring
    to. Say, the a would be too thin in parts if you were to use it at the size on
    screen at the moment. Also the spacing is way too small for use at a small size.
    If you want to have a look, the best font for small sizes that I ever came across
    is minuscule.\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/256tm/minuscule/\r\nCheck the 256tm
    website which will give you a very good overview of the choices you have to make
    for this kind of work. I am sure you can even contact the designer."
  created: '2009-11-13 09:23:18'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Thanks for your comments!\r\n\r\nDojr2: I have sizes about 8-9pt in mind,
    but would like to make it work from around 6 as well. When i have completed A-Z
    I'll begin having a closer look at it's weaknesses, thanks for your link!\r\nAbout
    spacing, I haven't really looked at it yet, the examples I have uploaded are just
    quickly hand kerned, I'll make some more serious metrics/kerning work on it later."
  created: '2009-11-13 14:40:42'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "Understood. Beware, though, that the spacing is an integral part of the design
    of a character/glyph. When you space out more, you'll be tempted to enlarge some
    of the glyphs so they don't float too much. \r\n\r\nIMVHO, as it stands, the z
    looks a little too wide, the w a little too wide too (and a bit too similar to
    two siamaese-v ), the t is too weak in general (and you may need to make a choice
    about the upper left part: vertical or diagonal, not in-between), the b is weaker
    than the d (are you sure you got your optical correction right at the bottom?),
    the i si too narrow. It is, however, difficult to tell inside a word. Try just
    presenting the glyphs next to each other and tell us which are your reference
    glyphs (the ones you think are successful and you don't want to change).\r\n\r\nps.
    f may look too weak too and y too weak at the bottom. The horizontal bar of the
    f and t don't have to be at the same height as the serifs of the x-height glyphs.
    Lower them and your character may find their balance. \r\n\r\npps. Good work all
    in all. "
  created: '2009-11-13 17:22:28'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Just a quick update - made some changes to a bunch of letters and have started
    on some new.\r\n\r\nAttached shot is the current state, hopefully I'll have it
    much improved in next update - setting some text with it makes it really clear
    that many letters need a lot(!) of tweaking.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KJV_6547.png]"
  created: '2009-11-13 21:07:24'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Small update - haven't had time to do much more work on it yet. Hopefully
    I'll have an evening off to do it justice.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4110592696_405d7f64ef_5047.jpg]"
  created: '2009-11-17 13:37:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I can't tell at that size if it's still an issue, but I was going to suggest
    that for the slanted serif-like structure at the bottom right of the \"u\" that
    it should go half below the baseline and half above. That way, \"on average\"
    it is on the baseline....\r\n\r\nAnd I whole-heartedly concur that for a first
    attempt, this is very good.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-19 03:16:07'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: 'Thomas: Thank you very much for your comment! I will note the change for
    the u. Would you do the same for a?'
  created: '2009-11-19 09:53:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I would, yes.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-19 16:01:05'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I have drawn up a few more caps, and nudged some of the lowercase letters
    a little.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/font_191109.pdf|Here is a PDF]]
    with all the letters and a little text set with it.\r\n\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nThomas
    Silkj\xE6r"
  created: '2009-11-19 19:21:38'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "Hi Thomas\r\n\r\nNice to see some cool caps. \r\n\r\nOne thing I notice is
    that some letters need optical correction to share the same baseline, cap-height
    or x-height. \r\nI think your 'A' looks too short. The asymetrical serifs on the
    'H' makes the it look a bit out of balance. Especially the lower right one looks
    too long in my opinion. Maybe one of the legs needs to be flipped so the serifs
    get mirrored. The 'I' might have the same asymetrical issue. The 'M' could need
    a wee bit more white in the right counter. (does that make sense?) Pull the right
    leg a bit to the right. There is something about the curves in the 'O' which needs
    tweaking. Some parts look a llittle wobbly. Also look at optical correction of
    this letter. A little more overshoot to make it appear the same heigth as  the
    rest of the letters.\r\n'W' and 'V' need to drop a little more below the baseline
    to fit the other letters' heights.\r\n\r\nOnce again I like the overall look of
    your typeface. \r\n\r\nMagnus\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 20:10:22'
- author:
    name: gege04
    picture: 117776
  body: "hi thomas\r\n\r\ni just came across this thread and really enjoyed following
    this genesis of your font. great work for a first try.\r\n\r\nas i am no typedesigner
    i will not go into finetuning comments as there are plenty of people here that
    have the knowledge and experience to advice you. \r\none thing i'd like to point
    out, though, is that i miss a bit of personallity in your caps. don't get me wrong:
    they are all nicely done (and i'm sure you will finetune them properly) but after
    the developement of the lowercase letters i expected to see a bit more of your
    personality in the caps - something that tells me at a glance that this is Thomas
    Silkj\xE6rs font. i think some of the lower case letters do show more of this
    personality than this first attempt on the caps.\r\n\r\nanyway: i really like
    what you're doing.\r\n\r\ngerhard \r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 08:29:42'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I must say that I am truly honored that so many care to help me on this -
    thanks for all the input!\r\n\r\nMagnus: I really appreciate your attention to
    details! I have made a bunch of corrections to the caps already, and are working
    on the remaining.\r\n\r\nGerhard: I think I will continue this path, getting all
    the letters done, and then focus on personifying them more. I agree that they
    lack it, but the main focus now is to make them match the lowercase letters.\r\n\r\nSo
    basically I think I will focus on getting the full alphabet from A-Z done, print
    out a lot of sample text, get some metrics in place, and then start nudging the
    single letters even more, both lowercase and uppercase. "
  created: '2009-11-20 19:07:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A macro thing that I think needs fixing is the vertical proportions, where
    the descenders are too long compared to the ascenders. I might recommend making
    the ascenders (and as a result probably the cap height) taller but seeing that
    your forms are pretty dark you might want to shoot for small text with this (like
    9 point) in which case I would recommend making the descenders shorter instead.\r\n\r\nAnd
    something micro:\r\nThe \"g\" is too smooth; it needs some of the angularity to
    fit in.\r\n\r\nBTW may I ask where you got the idea of putting that gap in the
    \"e\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 20:55:43'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "hrant: Thanks for the comments. Small text is the goal for the font, ascenders
    and descenders are the same height now, but maybe you are right that the descenders
    should be even shorter!\r\n\r\nI really agree on the \"g\", which I am far from
    satisfied with currently.\r\n\r\nIn the \"e\", I originally had the crossbar cross
    the stem, but discussing it with a colleague I was suggested to make a gap instead. "
  created: '2009-11-20 22:02:20'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "IMVHO very interesting. Descenders are typically shorter than ascenders because
    they play a lesser role in making the font legible. If you want to look at asymetric
    serifs which work very well, check Ambroise from Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez and
    note how he follows the ductus to achieve this. You can also balance the serifs
    on a diagonal (NW with SE and SE with NW on the I for example); or you can alter
    the design of the serifs so they are visually the same length despite not being
    the same length (unfortunately the Marcellin Legrand has not been digitised yet,
    or this would give you a great example for your V & X serifs). Just ideas, of
    course. I am not an expert like the others are.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 12:15:55'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Time for an update.\r\n\r\nDojr2: Thanks! \r\n\r\nI have been nudging some
    characters and tried to complete alphabets from a-z in both upper- and lowercase.
    The letters are all there now, but still I always find things I need to adjust
    further.\r\n\r\nI tried printing out some text samples on a laser printer today,
    and I must admit that I am quite impressed by the texture already, hopefully I
    will be patient enough to make something useful out of it.\r\n\r\nStill I haven't
    given metrics much thought yet.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/silkj\xE6r_251109.pdf|New
    PDF attached]]"
  created: '2009-11-25 20:40:24'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Next update, more characters added, and new text examples.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/files/silkj\xE6r_271109.pdf|New
    PDF]]"
  created: '2009-11-27 21:42:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Although it's reasonably functional as is, I'd prefer the crossbar on the
    "f" to be a few units heavier, maybe less tapering on the left side.
  created: '2009-11-28 22:21:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "/C/, /G/, /S/, and /g/ seem too monolinear - they don't get thin enough to
    fit in with the rest.\r\nTop serif of /a/ and /c/ doesn't quite work to my eye;
    I might try a little thicker or a little shorter.\r\n/M/ might be too narrow.\r\nThe
    shape of /q/'s tail's terminal seems backwards (since you've flipped the asymmetrical
    bracketing)."
  created: '2009-11-28 22:35:18'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: 'Thanks for the last comments! I''m nudging the letters some more before my
    next update. '
  created: '2009-11-29 16:15:16'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "First of all I think this is a great first effort I'm quite jealous\r\nas
    I'm attempting to design a face as well.\r\n\r\nA few comments The lowercase g
    is the character that irks me\r\nthe bowl needs to have thicks and thins that
    match the rest\r\nIt's too monoline at the moment. and See Hrant's comment on
    angularity.\r\nIt reminds me a little of Cheltenham in its ruggedness\r\n\r\nBut
    keep going its going to be a good one\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 13:25:38'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Gary: Thanks!\r\n\r\nI am also rather annoyed by the lowercase g - but i
    nudged it a bit yesterday, and i think i might steal the look of the letter from
    Minuscule (as dojr2 pointed out), removing the lowest part of the bowl. I'll keep
    this g in (when nudged in place) as a stylistic alternative though.\r\n\r\nAny
    advice on how to handle metrics and kerning is appreciated! Where to start, how
    to get the metrics in place, when to start kerning, buying a license for MetricsMachine?"
  created: '2009-11-30 14:02:52'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "A type designer I know very well used to draw in Fontographer kern in Letraset
    FontStudio\r\nand manufacture in Fontlab. \r\n\r\n\r\nWalter Tracy's \"Letters
    of Credit\" has a great chapter on spacing\r\nHe outlines the method he used at
    Linotype.\r\nMuch the same information in included in Karen Cheng's \"Designing
    Type\r\nWhat software have you used?"
  created: '2009-11-30 14:19:19'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: I started out in Illustrator, continued in FontLab. I'll take a look at the
    two books you suggest!
  created: '2009-11-30 14:23:18'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "IMVHO, what the g needs is mostly to be less flowing, at the moment, it is
    very 'diagonal', whereas your typeface calls for something more orthogonal (vertical
    v. horizontal). I would not go as far as Ambroise or Didot Elder, but look at
    least at Bodonis, Didots etc. then mend your design, without copying what you
    see.\r\n\r\nThe solution used by the outstandingly fantastic minuscule is mostly
    for characters with very small ascenders & descenders. It can be seen in fat Bodonis
    too.\r\n\r\nAs always, I might be wrong."
  created: '2009-12-01 11:04:12'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I have attached a small JPG showing my current g's - I think I'm going to
    adjust further to use more of the descender space. Not totally satisfied yet,
    I'll keep my mind and eyes open :) Thanks!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/46406057_6424.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-01 11:56:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'm afraid that /g/ looks like a misprint, like the computer has clipped off
    the bottoms of the characters.
  created: '2009-12-01 13:58:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I find myself recommending a Koch-style\r\n\"g\" for the second time in a
    few days!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 19:07:35'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I still really like the idea of a clipped g, so here is an altered version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/giant_giraffes_4133.png]"
  created: '2009-12-02 20:11:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Looks a bit like a Q that has somehow become a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flagellate|flagellate]].
    I've seen successful partial g-bowls that came down to an angle out of the upper
    bowl, then started around, rather than the s-curve you have here. That might be
    worth a try. See the first example [[http://formschub.de/blog/?p=218|here]]. (Some
    good Typophile discussion of such /g/s [[http://typophile.com/node/49909|here]].)
  created: '2009-12-02 20:28:38'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I see what you mean - got blinded trying to get some angle in it. I have
    tried flattening it out a little, only angling the top of the bowl, to get some
    similarity from the \"e\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_021209_6667.png]"
  created: '2009-12-02 21:22:44'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Remember what Stanley Morison said \u201CBut if my friends \r\nthink the
    tail of my lower-case r or the lip of \r\nmy lower-case e is rather jolly, you
    may know that \r\nthe fount would have been better had neither been made.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    think it will pop to much when you set it"
  created: '2009-12-02 23:46:25'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Remember what Stanley Morison said \u201CBut if my friends \r\nthink the
    tail of my lower-case r or the lip of \r\nmy lower-case e is rather jolly, you
    may know that \r\nthe fount would have been better had neither been made.\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    think it will pop to much when you set it"
  created: '2009-12-02 23:46:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is certainly truth in that. On the other hand, Erik\r\nSpiekermann
    has pointed out that people's love/hate for\r\nthe \"g\" in Meta has helped that
    font's popularity!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 00:46:35'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "I think I am gonna take a break from the g for a while ;) I think I have
    stared myself blind on it, and need to take a fresh look at a later time.\r\n\r\nI
    know it is quite soon to ask, but is this by any chance foundry material, or would
    the chances for people actually using it be better if I released it for free?
    My intentions has never been to make a font for sale, but I am just quite curious
    if it would have a shot."
  created: '2009-12-04 09:28:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Personally I don't think settling for a non-polished result is a good reason
    to give a font away; because people will form an impression of your work which
    will affect whether they will eventually pay real money for any font you make
    in the future! The only reason I can think of to stop a font early is: it was
    just an exercise anyway and you've learned what you could from it; or you think
    it was (or has become) a bad idea in terms of potential sales.\r\n\r\nSo I think
    this can be \"foundry material\" (hopefully that doesn't mean fit for a hellbox
    :-) as long you stick to it and polish it to a really nice lustre.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    about taking a break: it seems to work for many people (including myself), even
    when you don't see anything to improve! But know that the hibernation period might
    need to be in weeks, not days.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 14:58:04'
- author:
    name: Silkjaer
    picture: 114408
  body: "Hrant: I am not talking about stopping early or publishing anything unpolished,
    I really want this to work out.\r\n\r\nIf I at some point give up, don't have
    time to work more on it, I won't just throw it out for download if I am not satisfied
    with it. \r\n\r\nIt is more in the thought that this is my very first effort,
    does it contain enough potential qualities.\r\n\r\nI am slowly sketching some
    ampersands, numbers etc, so I guess these will get my break-time attention. \r\n\r\nThanks
    for the encouraging words :)\r\n\r\n\r\nThomas"
  created: '2009-12-04 15:16:47'
date: '2009-11-06 19:04:59'
files:
- filename: serif_0.png
  uri: public://old-images/serif_0.png
- filename: letters_111109.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/letters_111109.pdf
- filename: font_191109.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/font_191109.pdf
- filename: "silkj\xE6r_251109.pdf"
  uri: "public://old-images/silkj\xE6r_251109.pdf"
- filename: "silkj\xE6r_271109.pdf"
  uri: "public://old-images/silkj\xE6r_271109.pdf"
node_type: forum
title: First ever shot at a font

---
