---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "I'm trying to convince somebody not use a Schaftstiefelgrotesk* jackboot grotesque
  like Tannenberg, because of the Nazi association. Since laymen need to be hit over
  the head with a two-handed warhammer to get it, I really need to find an image of
  a vintage poster with a font like this\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d7/Tannenberg_sample.png\r\nand
  \"Adolf Hitler\" or a swastika or something equally damning on it too.\r\n\r\n*
  http://typophile.com/node/12130\r\n\r\nIf you put \"Tannenberg font recognize\"
  in Google image search and click on \"Find similar images\" under the first image,
  you see a some good candidates, except the links have become broken.\r\n\r\nHelp!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "[[http://cghs.dade.k12.fl.us/holocaust/jugen.jpg|this one]], [[http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/12/EnthanasiePropaganda.jpg|this
    one]] and [[http://englishrussia.com/images/racial_families/2.jpg|this one]] all
    come close. They used a lot of different Fraktur typefaces, but these examples
    might bring your point across. I read somewhere a short while ago that the nazi's
    themselves stopped using these typefaces because their origins supposedly came
    from jewish letters, after which they adopted the grotesk typeface for their filthy
    business...\r\n\r\nHeavy theme, man. \r\n\r\ngreetings Jeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 16:02:53'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "The Euthanasie example should do the job \u2026\r\n\r\nBut the funny part
    is that the \"layman\" finds nothing wrong with the grotesk-like, simplified  blackletter
    design of Tannenberg. So \u2026 if the client is not a german  and communicates
    with non-germans, there should be no problem by using Tannenberg or Element etc.
    (in a light, regular weight with \"non propaganda color combinations\" and motives.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 17:40:45'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Well...\r\n\r\nCare avoiding using barcodes, number combinations, blond girls,
    and moustaches as well... I don't really think you can really use a typeface like
    this just like a neutral nice looking typeface for just anything. It's charged
    with meaning, and if this is not taken into account, it's troublesome, to say
    the least.\r\n\r\nJeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 18:01:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jeffrey, those are good - thanks! However something even closer to\r\nTannenberg
    (and maybe a bit more explicit) might be required...\r\n\r\nThomas, this \"person\"
    has enemies who will use it against \"him\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 18:04:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Am I late?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schaftstiefel1_6364.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schaftstiefel2_4801.jpg]\r\nStill
    looking for better ones. If you like these let me know and I'll bust out the scanner
    (just snapped these from a book)."
  created: '2009-11-07 18:57:59'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Can't be much clearer than [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/21098063@N07/2189553385/|this
    one]], which is part of [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/21098063@N07/sets/72157603707201719/|this
    flickr set]], where you're sure to find what you're looking for.\r\n\r\nJeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Sure seems like you've solved this one, Jeffrey. Whoa.
  created: '2009-11-07 19:07:41'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "So you are attempting to achieve new heights of political correctness absurdity.
    Should we abandon all letters of the alphabet used by the Nazis too?\r\n\r\nRidiculous!"
  created: '2009-11-07 19:12:41'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Cool down now...\r\n\r\nI'm not saying they should be forbidden at all! I'm
    just saying you can't just just use these letters thinking they mean nothing.
    But I guess this is a normal procedure when choosing a typeface, and there's probably
    good places to use these letters as well, but you can't simply forget about the
    context with which, unfortunately, have become synonimous.\r\n\r\nSo, you're free
    to use any typeface you want, but I don't think all typefaces are alright for
    everything and that you can just ignore their context and history.\r\n\r\ngreetings
    Jeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 19:22:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, am I set or what!  :-)\r\nThanks a bunch Jeffrey and Nina.\r\n\r\nGeorge,
    I'm rarely politically correct, and I've actually historically been very vocal
    about revalidating blackletter. But when something I care about is opening itself
    up to serious damage by powerful enemies I have to draw a line. Font martyrdom
    is not something I encourage.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 19:31:43'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "And just to add a personal example to the thing mentioned above:\r\n\r\nWhen
    once commisioned to design my schools in house art magazine, we came up with the
    idea of using a fraktur typeface for the title of the magazine. This, in combination
    with a barcode on the cover, provoked very strong reactions among the teaching
    staff, of which one would refuse to read this magazine and would immediately throw
    it in the bin if she found it anywhere near her postbox.... so I guess I've learned
    the hard way as well. Just comes to show that something that seemed like a little
    bit of thought provoking stirring up can have stronger effects than you can think
    of at first.\r\n\r\nJeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 19:32:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'll say it too: I don't see how anyone is being too politically correct
    here at all.\r\nJeffrey, I hear you \u2013 it is a fine line to toe. I've been
    too \"daring\" with at least one client as well with respect to using blackletter
    and ambiguous imagery. \r\nBut the point is doing it consciously. As long as we
    realize there <em>is</em> a line to toe, and that we juggle with fire \u2013 but
    we do that for a reason \u2013, we can explain our approach vis-\xE0-vis an audience/client/enemy,
    and take responsibility for our actions. But when a layman around us doesn't realize
    what kind of target they potentially make themselves, I believe we need to step
    up and help avoid damage. Not as the type police, more like\u2026 the fire brigade.
    But hopefully, before the fact."
  created: '2009-11-07 19:53:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<em>An\u2019s</em>?\r\n\r\nWas that correct German orthography in 1936/37?\r\n\r\n@hrant\r\n\r\n<em>However
    something even closer to Tannenberg (and maybe a bit more explicit) might be required.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to avoid, that someone feels remembered the Nazi regime, I wonder, why
    you are searching for a similar alternative, because those people, that know the
    differences, also know, that the crimes of the Nazis were not the fault of the
    typeface. And the others nevertheless feel remembered.\r\n\r\n(I naturally can
    understand, if someone doesn\u2019t want to use any signs, that people remember
    the crimes of the Nazis in the context of an advertising project, but the indignation
    of a sign, even the indignation of the Swastika and independent from the context,
    is absurd. It either is naive or mendacious. I am German, I am anti-fascist and
    I even like the aesthetic of Hitler\u2019s version of the Swastika. The sign is
    timeless good. There should be more discussions about the Swastika or typefaces
    like Tannenberg in Germany.)"
  created: '2009-11-07 20:13:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why you are searching for a similar alternative\r\n\r\n?\r\nI'm not. I'm
    looking for concrete, layman-level evidence that they shouldn't be using that
    style of font in their particular context. In some contexts it could be fine,
    or even great. So essentially I agree with you, it's just that everything has
    limits.\r\n\r\nHeck, I'm a big fan of jackboot Hebrew!  :-)\r\nhttp://vllg.com/Incubator/Kaas/mudTyper+Weights/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 20:23:38'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "What a senseless discussion.\r\nAre you victims of your political correctness?
    Or are you typographic professionals?\r\n\r\nThere is _no_ existing \"Nazi font\".\r\nHow
    often some guys want to establish it.\r\n\r\nAll this is nonsense.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"F\xFChrer\" prefered Antiqua, by the way...\r\n\r\nFraktur fonts were forbidden
    since 1941, 'cause Adolf Hitler himself called it \"jews letters\". A funny detail:
    Lucian Bernhard Fraktur from Lucian Bernhard, a german jew, was the headline font
    of V\xF6lkischer Beobachter, the nazi party's newspaper. \r\n\r\nAll these \"New
    Gothic\" fonts were developed between 1933 and 1938. They mirrored the epoche
    - that's all. Tannenberg is one of the most famous ones, because it was offered
    by D. Stempel, the largest foundry. \r\n\r\nI wrote an article about Tannenberg
    some weeks ago (in german). \r\nMay be, you want (and can) read it or someone
    can translate it? My english is not good enough, sorry: <a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/tagebuch/tannenberg-jetzt-aber-wirklich..html\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Tannenberg</a>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tannenberg_6286.JPG]\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-07 21:29:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georg, I have most if not all the \"facts\". But it remains that many people
    have a certain <em>perception</em>. For example are you saying that Jeffrey is
    hallucinating about the strong rejection he experienced?\r\n\r\nI'm more on your
    side than most anybody you'll meet. But don't expect me or anybody else to espouse
    your apparently extreme purism and denial of the hard reality on the ground.\r\n\r\nKaas:
    we could talk about its formal shapes, but in the context of this thread its Hebrew
    component would be the one to focus on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 21:43:18'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "There's a bit of cross-cultural / cross-language confusion coming up it seems.
    Georg, let me (us) know if you need part of the thread translated.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that people (non-typographers) often associate Nazism with Tannenberg
    \u2013 no matter if you (or we) think they are correct or not. So given that we
    have a layperson, who has enemies waiting for something to use against him, it's
    only common sense to recommend that he should not give them a reason to attack
    him \u2013 no matter if the attack would be rightful or not. I think we all agree
    that Blackletter Is Not Evil."
  created: '2009-11-07 21:45:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nI did not read carefully enough. Sorry.\r\n\r\n(My first impression
    of \"Kaas\u2026\" is, that the a and the ellipsis are a bit too dominant. But
    you probably did not want to talk about Kaas now.)\r\n\r\n@Bleisetzer\r\n\r\nThe
    point is, that most readers are not typographic professionals. It may be a question
    of business in this case and not a question of aesthetics or political correctness
    or facts and truths."
  created: '2009-11-07 21:45:59'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "hrant, I'll not continue this discussion. I wrote my article, everyone who's
    interested, can read it and comment it in my blog.\r\n\r\nHow someone wrote above:
    \r\nIts ridiculous to call a font \"Nazi font\". \r\nAnd just you are... sorry,
    ... just you should be professional enough to avoid these preconceptions (?).
    It is the same if you would call the song \"The End\" from The Doors a \"Charly
    Killer Song\", because Coppola used it in Apocalypse Now. Yes, the US-americans
    killed thousands of Vietnam people, as you know. But its absolutely senseless
    to give any guilty to The Doors or to the song.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-07 21:53:56'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Ah.. sorry... I forgot to say good bye, hrant...\r\n\r\nBye for now.\r\nYou
    are how you are and I know it since years now.\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-07 21:54:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"you should be professional enough to avoid these preconceptions\"</cite>\r\n\r\nDude,
    are you even reading what we write?\r\n\r\nIt's about <em>other people's preconceptions</em>.
    \r\nNon-professional people's preconceptions. \r\nThey exist, if we like them
    or not.\r\n\r\nAnd your logic is garbled."
  created: '2009-11-07 21:59:50'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Yes, altaira, I do.\r\nAnd I understand, what you wrote.\r\n\r\nJust see:\r\nYou
    are following the political correctness by avoiding to do things non-professional
    people could think about it in a negative way. Anyway if its a wrong thinking
    or not. So you do wrong, because you are the professional. Your job is to change
    the wrong thinking of the non-professionals, not to overtake their wrong thinking.\r\n\r\nDo
    you understand, what I mean?\r\n\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-07 22:01:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you should be professional enough to avoid these preconceptions\r\n\r\nI
    try to be professional and/or helpful enough to not try to\r\nimpose the parameters
    of some personal utopia on others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-07 22:10:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, Georg, I understand that. And like I said above, I have actually acted
    the way you specified myself. But this is a slightly different situation.\r\n\r\nPicture
    this: \r\nYou're on vacation in Pamplona with a friend of yours, who knows nothing
    about Spain, and doesn't care either. On the day of the bull running, your young
    friend happily decides he'd like to go for a walk in the city, wearing his favorite
    red t-shirt.\r\nYou know the city. You know the bulls are racing. You've been
    there.\r\nSo do you warn him? Do you tell him to put on a different shirt? Do
    you tell him not to go out at all? \r\nOr do you think he should proudly wear
    his favorite shirt and never mind the bull?"
  created: '2009-11-07 22:11:11'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I think the core of this discussion is about semiotics. And it's about confusing
    what is being said with how it's being said. Blackletters (or any letter for that
    matter) aren't evil in any way, and there is a lot of typographic history attached
    to them (Printing all started with them, and with it modern typography, let's
    not forget that) so to just connect them to the nazi regime is definately wrong...
    BUT the prominent use of these letters by the Nazi regime no more than 70 years
    ago, and it's use afterwards by right wing activists and football hooligans does
    make use of this kind of letter contaminated/problematic. As type professional
    it is very important to know the distinction between what is said and how it's
    said, even when other don't. And we should also use this knowledge to avoid this
    kind of pigeonholing. The use of certain symbols, imagery, typefaces etc carries
    certain messages, this can't just be ignored, that's just stupid, ESPECIALLY when
    you're a professional in the business of communications.\r\n\r\nI find it really
    quite tiresome to have this political correctness discussion. Freedom of expression
    YES, but ignorance of expression, what is expressed and how it's expressed NO.
    If that's against peoples sense of freedom, that's a shame, but, IMO, completely
    unneccesary.\r\n\r\nAnd sorry for the CAPS... :)\r\n\r\nJeffrey\r\n[[http://www.infraordinaire.com/wordpress|infraordinaire]]"
  created: '2009-11-07 22:26:22'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@altaira\r\n\r\nNeither red nor any other color raises the aggression of
    bulls.\r\n\r\n@Georg\r\n\r\n<cite>Your job is to change the wrong thinking of
    the non-professionals, not to overtake their wrong thinking.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    know the context, in which hrant\u2019s client wanted to use Tannenberg, but advertising
    is not a classroom, in which truths and facts are taught. Often it is just the
    other way around. If the client offers dental health services, it would be a very
    bad idea, to use Tannenberg. If the client deals with noodles, he could use Tannenberg,
    except from the fact, that Tannenberg really does not look like pasta.\r\n\r\n(A
    Tannenberg alphabet noodle soup would be funny.)"
  created: '2009-11-07 23:36:08'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Papa Flickr thinks the picture set that Jeffrey has linked to is too hazardous
    for me.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flickr-censored_4966.png]"
  created: '2009-11-07 23:59:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Florian is that just in Germany or everywhere? The laws in different places
    are different as I understand it. You can rely off list if you like.\r\n\r\nGeorg,
    your point about the essential nature of the forms is absolutely right. I mean:
    bang on, 100% right. But at the same time I have to admit that it always important
    to consider the audience. If you genuinely believe you can assign a new a new
    set semantic associations with a given use - then by all means go for it. The
    letters deserve to be free. But I would want to be very very sure about it. My
    first loyalty in a case like this is not to the letters - but to the message they
    are meant to deliver but on a literal as well as on a connotative level."
  created: '2009-11-08 00:36:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Arno, if the \"client\" is [falsely] accused of ethnic\r\ncleansing, using
    Tannenberg is a bad idea. Period.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 01:11:26'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Okay...\r\n\r\nFirst of all I want to say sorry.\r\nI became emotional yesterday
    night and it was not correct, to attac hrant - it does'nt matter if I like him
    or not, I want to be politely to every colleague. So, I want to say sorry.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way:\r\nhrant's first example:\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d7/Tannenberg_sample.png\r\n\r\nis
    a copy of a document of a protestant church in Germany from 1946 (one year after
    Germany lost the war). Tannenberg Linotype matrices and handletters were existing
    in about three of ten printer plants. I know that because we every month takeover
    one of these printers and buy there lead letters. So they had many other matrizes
    to chose, but they used Tannenberg. IF the mainstream thinking 1946 would have
    been to see Tannenberg as a Nazi font, they would'nt, mh? Or they would try, but
    US army, the winners of the war, would have forbidden it.\r\n\r\nAnother argument:\r\nThe
    although called \"New Gothic\" fonts like Tannenberg were a break with the traditional
    Fraktur. So to combine what whoever is thinking about Fraktur does not matter
    Tannenberg.\r\n\r\nBut IF its necessary to combine it, because customers do: The
    history of Fraktur is existing since around 500 years. 12 of it Adolf Hitler ruled
    Germany. He did not like Fraktur and he did not like Tannenberg either. He wanted
    and needed Antiqua. \r\n\r\nWhat about my example with the Door's song The End.
    Is'nt it the same to call Tannenberg a Nazi font or to call Jim Morrison's song
    a Viet Killer song?\r\n\r\nI found some magazines \"Graphische Nachrichten\" from
    1934, where Tannenberg joined the market with some ads in Tannenberg, National
    and others. Are you interested to see it? So I could make some scans.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-08 09:07:38'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Maybe I'm stepping a bit late into this debate.\r\nAnyway, Georg, I don't
    think you can state that Tannenberg simply \"mirrors the epoch - that\u2019s all\".\r\nFirst
    of all, there is the name itself : the SECOND battle of Tannenberg (August 17\u2014September
    2, 1914) was a huge victory for Germany against Russia at the beginning of World
    War I, and was widely perceived at the time as especially significant since it
    was felt to be a long-overdue revenge on the FIRST battle of Tannenberg (July
    15, 1410), where the Polish armies defeated the Teutonic Knights, stopping German
    expansion in Eastern Europe. Thus, choosing this name for a Blackletter typeface
    in 1933 clearly hinted at notions of \"German pride\", indeed a significant part
    of Hitler's rhetoric. It is also telling that other examples of \"Schaftstiefelgrotesk\"
    include <cite>National</cite> and <cite>Deutchland</cite> (no explanation needed
    here).\r\nSecondly, \"Schaftstiefelgrotesk\" are a conscious effort by German
    typefounders to find some kind of compromise between traditional Blackletter forms
    (an integral part of the <cite>Heimatstil</cite> favoured by some of the highest-ranking
    members of the Nazi party) and Grotesk typefaces promoted by Tschichold's New
    Typography and Bauhaus designers, at a time when the Nazis themselves hesitated
    between the two aesthetic camps (modernism was advocated by some as a style which
    \"would best distinguish the new Germany from the old\", as stated by Steven Heller
    in <cite>Iron Fists \u2014 Branding The 20th-Century Totalitarian State</cite>).\r\nFinally,
    the rejection of Fraktur as <cite>Judenlettern</cite> (Martin Boormann's words,
    January 3, 1941) comes quite late in the history of the Nazi regime : up to this
    point, Blackletter was flaunted as the embodiment of \"Germanness\" by Nazi propaganda,
    even if Hitler himself had a personal taste for Neoclassical forms (in architecture
    as well as in typography)."
  created: '2009-11-08 11:05:18'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: "@Florian: you need to sign in to see the photo set; I don't know if this
    is the case in other countries.\r\n\r\nAnd just my two cents: as an Englishman
    living in Germany for the last two years, I've been somewhat surprised by the
    lingering sense of guilt and shame shared by, I would say, the majority of Germans.
    Especially surprising is that this has even been passed on to young people, whose
    parents even weren't old enough to live through WW2: some have told me they feel
    like their opinions on such matters are highly scrutinised. There are those who,
    perhaps like Georg, seek to break this cycle in their lifetime, but this is not
    the normal position. I've been in trouble a couple of times with some (perhaps
    somewhat glib) jokes, which has taught me to think a bit about the feelings I
    am invoking in saying such things.\r\n\r\nOne only has to look at the furor over
    the publication of [[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/7247817.stm|those damned
    Muhammed cartoons]]. Yes, one might say that it was political correctness gone
    mad, but the fact of the matter is that the cartoonists in question became famous
    for all the wrong reasons. In other words, your work <em>should</em> be sensitive
    to such things if your goal is to produce work that invokes the correct responses.
    Of course, here comes more careful line-treading."
  created: '2009-11-08 12:10:35'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "Hrant: I'm sure you're all set, but <a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=E4c3sJhNVqkC&pg=PA56&lpg=PA56&dq=jackboot+blackletter&source=bl&ots=vCwPTrNXTe&sig=_AeLt8BaV9y1wqU_8IfX8tDUzTc&hl=en&ei=8732SrqFMo3l8Qao_vTzCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CBoQ6AEwBg#v=onepage&q=&f=false\">this
    page</a> from, \"Blackletter: Type and National Identity\" is all you need. The
    second paragraph specifically mentions Tannenberg!\r\n\r\n\r\nAnother resource
    for Nazi propaganda posters: http://www.ushmm.org/propaganda/"
  created: '2009-11-08 12:53:32'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Celeste\r\n\r\nYes, you are right.\r\nTannenberg was a great victory of
    General Hindenburg at the beginning of WWI. Only this victory made it possible
    to send the troops to the western front, where France with the help of England
    was attacking Germany.So it was a notation to Germany's pride, how you said it.
    So, what?\r\n\r\nWe know lots of Egyptienne fonts. Named Egyptienne, because Napoleon
    attacked England in Egypt. All european nations were imperialistic. \"British
    Empire\" says it clear and loud.\r\n\r\nWhen I say Tannenberg was a result of
    this german epoche, I mean, that this epoche was very national. Germany lost WWI,
    was pressed under the Versailles contract. The people saw the again upcoming Germany
    with proud. So Tannenberg mirrored this feeling. The same did the fonts Gotenburg,
    National, Franken-Deutsch, Herman-Gotisch, Kurmark, Trump-Deutsch. Not all of
    them were \"New Gothisch\" fonts. But all of it note to be close to the major
    feeling of this epoche - to think national. I am sure, the foundries marketing
    departments tried to force it, because like it is today: They want to make profit
    with their products. \r\n\r\nSo: I agree with you. But I said the same before:
    These fonts are mirrors of the national epoche of Germany. But nothing to do with
    \"Nazi font\". The Nazi party won the internal national war and ruled Germany
    for 12 years. But Nazi is not the same as \"national thinking\" is. Berthold Brecht
    said, Nazism is a way to get absolutely force. I think, that's right. They were
    criminals, not politicians.\r\n\r\n@ murphy.md \r\n\r\nYes, its correct what you
    say. Lots of german younger people (I am born 1955) are ashamed to be germans.
    I do not agree. I am proud to be a german. I am the \"good german\" and not the
    f... neo nazi groups, you can find everywhere in Germany. I do not allow them
    to say \"I am proud to be german\". Germans, who are ashamed of their country
    give Germany exactly to these neo nazis. I don't. I am not guitly for nothing
    what happened. But I have a special responsibility for today and for the future.
    But its my right to love my country in the same way and with the same enthusiasm
    a guy from France does. And its a big mistake to see all things around 1933-45
    being Nazi. Germany was and is much more than 12 years of crime. So Germany was,
    is and can be proud on the battle of Tannenberg as an english guy on Trafalgar
    an american on Los Alamos.\r\n\r\nHu.... sry, need a cigarette... (I smoking french
    ones...he, heee..)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-08 13:20:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Roy, I have that wonderful book, and will certainly refer to that page as
    needed, but I think I need to deliver the visual punch first. Asking people to
    read is harder. :-)  But I didn't know it was accessible online! Thank you, that's
    advantageous.\r\n\r\nI hope Germans shed their shame en masse ASAP. They've bent
    over backwards making reparations, and it only serves to make things worse now
    (for example indirectly for the Palestinians). They <em>should</em> be proud,
    especially in the realm of type, where they've made the <em>best</em> fonts, historically
    and today.\r\n\r\nHowever, one key to shedding the shame is <em>not</em> simply
    ignoring the reality on the ground of what some other peoples -unjustly- think
    of them. Same with blackletter in general and the jackboot grotesques in particular.
    Denial gifts your enemies with a powerful weapon against you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 15:18:22'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Hrant, I have a book \u2018Art of the Third Reich\u2019 with posters and
    photos of the time (not very good quality and I would have to scan them). Does
    it have to be specifically Tannenberg or also similar stuff (Schaftstiefelgrotesk
    in general \u2013 why Grotesk btw?)?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1936~Volksempfaenger_5554.jpg]"
  created: '2009-11-08 15:39:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't want to leave any wiggle room, so the closer to this\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d7/Tannenberg_sample.png\r\nthe
    better. Plus Hitler and/or a swastika.  :-)\r\nLike I said, a two-handed warhammer.\r\n\r\nThat
    Flickr stream probably has most of the ones in any book, but\r\nthey're small.
    So a hi-res scan of a really damning one would be great.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 16:08:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Georg\r\n\r\n<cite>Lots of german younger people (I am born 1955) are ashamed
    to be germans. I do not agree. I am proud to be a german.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have
    great respect for everyone, that preserves and that develops culture like you,
    but I never was able to understand, how someone can be proud of his country. You
    can be proud of your own achievements only. Except from that I doubt, that it
    is true, that many Germans, which were born after the Nazi regime, are ashamed
    to be Germans because of the sins of their parents or grandparents. The fact,
    that there are Germans, which go into hysterics, when another German says in the
    public, that the Swastika is a highly aesthetic sign, has not to do with shame,
    but with either an unbelievable simple-mindedness or a dishonest political correctness.
    Or both. Instead of being ashamed of the sins of others or being proud of the
    cultural achievements of the past, it is needed to invest in education and educational
    justness, because we have a lot of catching-up to do there. The German educational
    system is too targeted with regard to career and earning money. There is a tendency
    to construe culture as a means to an end, as luxury, as pastime or as prestigious
    object in Germany.\r\n\r\n<cite>But Nazi is not the same as \u201Cnational thinking\u201D
    is.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is not the same, because the Nazis were trans- or overnationalists.
    And in my opinion \"national thinking\" is the little sister of trans- and overnationalism.
    Why not limit to <em>thinking</em> (and doing)? \"National thinking\" sounds like
    \"national security\" and today it ends in Iraq or Afghanistan."
  created: '2009-11-08 19:02:49'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Arno\r\n\"I never was able to understand, how someone can be proud of his
    country.\"\r\n\r\nWell Arno... to be serious:\r\nI never ever are able to understand,
    how someone, who's member of... and here are the problems beginning...\r\n\r\nThe
    german word \"Volk\" in english means sometimes folk, sometimes nation.\r\nBut
    there is a big difference between folk and nation.\r\n\r\nThe smallest community
    is the family, right?\r\nThe largest one is the folk (who organizes itsself in
    a nation).\r\nIts a question of blood, is'nt it? \r\nJews call themselves \"the
    chosen people\". And its on the mothers to give it to the children, not the father.\r\nSo
    let's say: german Volk = my people.\r\n\r\nAll men of my family (from both sides,
    father's and mother's) were volunteers in the wars, Germany was involved. They
    fought for their people, not for a government. And I feel a deep solidarity to
    my people. Not as a question of thinking about... but as a kind of reflex. My
    son (18) does not join the german \"Bundeswehr\" (army). He wanted, because he
    thougt about becoming a professional commissioned officer. But I did not allow
    it. He would have to go to Afghanistan. And this is not a war of our people. Never
    ever an afghanian did my people any harm. And you know, who's war it is and you
    can find the answer, why this war is going on...\r\n\r\nBack to your thesis: \r\nI
    can not understand, how someone who has his own people (folk) does think in another
    way, I do... may be in America, because this is a melting pot without historical
    growing of population? I don't know.\r\n\r\nThat's all what I can explain.\r\nTo
    belong to a folk, to my people, is a present from I don't know, whom. And if this
    would not be the natural way for human beings, the most nations would not exist.
    So... how can it be a bad thing?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-08 19:17:48'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Why should we in West Germany agree to the re-union with middle of Germany
    in 1990, if we would not feel as \"our people\"? In this case they should continue
    DDR, the old communist Germany, Arno... yes, that is a good example :-) I was
    very happy when the big wall felt down in 1990, believe me. We all were...\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-08 19:27:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Georg\r\n\r\nThe genetic differences between human individuals are minimal,
    brother! What are you doing, when the world is attacked by the mankind?\r\n\r\nIn
    the very most cases it is an illusion, that people fight for their own interests
    or the interests of their people in wars.\r\n\r\nIt is more important to respect
    <em>the</em> nature than to bow his own nature. By the way the man is an unfinished
    product. Culture, civilization and rational decisions are part of the nature.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    was very happy when the big wall felt down in 1990, believe me.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    felt happy for the Eastern Germans, but not because of the re-union, but because
    of the downfall of a dictatorship. Except from that I don\u2019t believe, that
    turbo-capitalism is a good alternative."
  created: '2009-11-08 20:30:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting and very timely:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/in_depth/8347409.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-09 05:08:46'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nVery interesting. The Frenchmen seem to believe, that a different
    economic system does not necessarily end in a dictatorship. And my landsmen are
    willing to choose one of the positions (but 30% were not willing to vote in September).\r\n\r\nAlso
    interesting in this context:\r\nhttp://www.informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/the-billion-dollar-gram/"
  created: '2009-11-09 10:46:03'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Arno Enslin\r\n\r\nYes, there was a downfall of dictatorship in middle
    east Germany. Reason enough to be happy. So they came from one into another one.
    But I guess, it is more senseful to stop political discussions. I'ld lose my last
    positive reputations, if I'ld continue. I think, feel, believe and act in a very
    other way than One World, One Future, what might be a nice utopia, but helps the
    big money to rule the world. We'll see that within the next five years...\r\n\r\n@
    hrant\r\nOn german websites you won't find Tannenberg with swastika or nazi propaganda.
    Its forbidden by very strict handled law. I have some magazines of \"Graphische
    Nachrichten\" (Graphic News) from 1934\u20141938 with advertisments including
    the fonts National, Gotenburg and others, which all include swastika or Hitler
    propaganda. If its senseful for you, I can scan it and send it to you by email.
    \r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-09 12:11:07'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@Georg\r\n\r\nA correction only \u2013 I did not meant\r\n\r\n<cite>It is
    more important to respect the nature than to bow his own nature.</cite>\r\n\r\nbut\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026
    to bow <strong>to</strong> his own nature.</em> (In German: <em>sich seiner Natur
    beugen</em> und nicht <em>seine Natur zu beugen</em>.)"
  created: '2009-11-09 13:08:46'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Back to Type.\r\n\r\nHrant, I wonder why you didn\u2019t unfold some little
    detail on the context of the client and his project which pressed you to commence
    this discussion. You only screame \"need to disqualify a typeface, give me Nazis,
    give me Hitler urgently\" which is quite opposite to being sensitive \u2013 whereas
    sensivity in a matter like this surely is of merit. As a German who, similar to
    Georg Kraus, may boast with some pride for our countries heritage (in typography,
    to say the least ;-) I reject the attitude of nazifying anything which is just
    decisively German. \r\n\r\nWould you blame the Capitalis Quadrata being inacceptable
    because the Romans were imperialistic?\r\nWould you blame the Bembo for being
    of typical Roman-Catholic flavour with regard to millions of slaughtered native
    Americans during the \u201CChristian\u201D conquest?\r\nWould you blame the Baskerville
    for being so English out of a time when the Britons forced millions of Africans
    into slavery? \r\n\r\nWhere are we to end up on this trail \u2013?\r\n\r\nI believe,
    there is much about context in this. Yes, the Tannenberg is a typographic celebration
    of German pride and self-assertion, one may call this nationalism. Nothing wrong
    with that in a liberal world. But I have to second the statement that this connotation
    is NOT to be equalled with Nazism.\r\n\r\nThe type of Schaftstiefelschrift has
    been in use in Germany since the 1940s *continiously*. I picked up a few examples
    which may illustrate that there must be more behind it than dull nazism. The first
    one is from a handpainted touristic map of uncertain date (est. 1940\u20261960,
    note the calligraphic delecacy). The other examples are well-known brands to be
    found literally everywhere.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Schwarzbg_6102.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gothaer_Hochz_3755.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3biere_kl_6549.JPG]"
  created: '2009-11-09 14:37:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Dear [fellow] Germans, the collective defensiveness in this thread is conspicuous.
    Is it really so impossible to accept that among laymen outside of Germany, Tannenberg-esque
    lettershapes tend to stir associations to Nazism first, with beer and noodles
    and good German craft possibly a distant second? The eagerness to assert a positive
    image is a bit tiring. \r\n\r\nYou don't have to convince anyone in here; you
    would need to convince everybody on the planet to erase their preconceptions.
    That's the point: Designers do need sensitivity, and they also need enough sensitivity
    (and sensibility) to see the associations \"the man on the street\" has \u2013
    be they justified/\"fair\" or not! Those need to be taken into account to decide,
    on a case-by-case basis, whether to be more daring and attempt to work towards
    correcting the public \"image\" (which doubtless seems like a more heroic and
    exemplary course of action); or sometimes to take a bit of extra precaution and
    not taunt public opinion, in cases that are more sensitive, as this one appears
    to be. This bull does charge at red."
  created: '2009-11-09 15:04:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 that among laymen outside of Germany, Tannenberg-esque lettershapes
    tend to stir associations to Nazism first</cite>\r\n\r\nThis may be so, but when
    I recall designs like [[http://www.metal-hammer.de/AC_DC_Cover_Tracklist_Titel_BLACK_ICE_Scott_Young_18_08_08.html|this
    AC-DC-cover]] \u2013 surely not German, I doubt it. As I doubt that an Italian,
    Hungarian or American fellow, sitting befor a glass of Bitburger on summer holidays,
    gets nazistic association first. \u2013 context.\r\nI didn\u2019t want to be eager
    to defend something. But the average layman, being German or something else, may
    be less ideological biased than eager designers.\r\nProst!"
  created: '2009-11-09 16:11:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"context.\"</cite>\r\nOf course. (That's why I said case-by-case.)\r\n\r\nProst
    \u2013 I miss the Hasser\xF6der."
  created: '2009-11-09 17:53:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I wonder why you didn\u2019t unfold some\r\n> little detail on the context
    of the client\r\n\r\nTo protect the \"client\".\r\n\r\n> Would you blame the Capitalis
    Quadrata being\r\n> inacceptable because the Romans were imperialistic?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not blaming a font. I'm not blaming anything.\r\nI'm being a designer. Not a utopian
    propagandist.\r\n\r\n> Would you blame the Baskerville for being so English out
    of\r\n> a time when the Britons forced millions of Africans into slavery?\r\n\r\nI
    might blame a minority-rights organization for using Baskerville\r\nas bad design,
    possibly. Although that wouldn't be nearly as bad as\r\nthe case I'm dealing with.\r\n\r\nSo
    yes, context. For example a yoghurt company can probably use a\r\nTannenberg*,
    but a company that manufactures electrocution chairs\r\nshouldn't. Helvetica would
    be good for them.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Unless the owner's father was Nazi big brass or
    something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-09 18:54:37'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ hrant\r\nYour last comment was the final kick I needed to set up my little
    \"Nazi font\" Quizz...\r\nIf you and some others woll join it, we'll get some
    surprising results.\r\nOtherwise I burn my old fashioned flagg in front of the
    plant, I promise.\r\n\r\nHasser\xF6der alkoholfrei?\r\nProst.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-09 21:50:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This reminds me of the discussion regarding the use of Eric Gill's typefaces,
    about which some people have scruples on account of his self-alleged sexual abuse
    of his children. My opinion in this case is the same as it was in that: this isn't
    a question of political correctness but of being conscious of possible extra-typographic
    associations when selecting any typeface for a particular job. As I wrote re.
    the Gill question, I would not use any Gill typeface in e.g. material for an organisation
    offering support and counselling to victims of sexual abuse, simply because it
    would be embarassing for them and, critically, distract from the message that
    they would be paying me to convey, should someone draw public attention to the
    inappropriateness of the typeface and its associations.\r\n\r\nThe association
    of particular styles of blackletter with the National Socialist period in modern
    German history is difficult to avoid. This is not to say that there are no circumstances
    in which such types are appropriate, only that this association needs to be taken
    into account and reckoned against the client's message and goals. If, as Hrant
    suggests, this association would be damaging in the context that it would be used
    in this instance, I trust his judgement on that and sympathise with his desire
    to demonstrate that association and discourage the use of such a typeface <em>in
    this circumstance.</em>"
  created: '2009-11-10 06:35:39'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I believe what a font makes a Nazi font or, like John says, a Kid Abuse font,
    only is a process in your head. It has nothing to do with the reality. So it would
    make more sense to think about how and why these associations you think in this
    way.\r\n\r\nYes, John, its the same with the Gill. But question: I bet, 99 percent
    of the customers (including and kid organisations) never ever heard about Eric
    Gill or what he did when(?). The click: kid abuse <> Gill is not in their heads,
    its in yours, working on their job.\r\n\r\nIts not logic, to avoid a Gill for
    these jobs.\r\nAgain: The protestant church organisation in Germany used Tannenberg
    1946(!) for their year report. And of course they had other Linotype matrizes.
    But they though Tannenberg would fit to their christian character.\r\n\r\nHave
    a look to my little Typo Quizz and tell me, which were the originals and which
    are the fakes. I am very excited to see what you guys find out.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-10 09:20:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... only is a process in your head. It has nothing to do with the reality.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry, but that's the the pot calling the kettle black.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 14:49:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Of course association is a process in the head, but to say that such associations
    have nothing to do with reality is to ignore the whole role of association in
    design. As you note with regard to the use of Tannenberg by the protestant church
    association in Germany immediately after the war, they obviously had different
    associations with such types. Indeed, my experience is that the appreciation and
    associations of various kinds of blackletter are much subtler within Germany than
    they are outside Germany, in part because they belong to a longer historical context
    with many more nuances.\r\n\r\nPlease read again carefully what I wrote regarding
    the use of Gill types. Of course the vast majority of people have never heard
    of Gill, wouldn't recognise his types, and don't know about what he apparently
    did to his daughters. My point was that for certain kinds of jobs for certain
    kinds of clients his types would be inappropriate because <em>if</em> someone
    were to draw public attention to them in the context of Gill's person they would
    cause embarassment to the client and unwanted attention to the design rather than
    to the client's message. I never said that Gill's types are \u2018Kid Abuse fonts\u2019
    -- that's your phrase, not mine --, only that there are circumstances in which
    their extra-typographic associations would make them inappropriate. There are
    plenty of uses for which I would not consider these associations to be relevant
    at all, and the same is true for a type like Tannenberg. I am explicitly <em>not</em>
    saying that this is a \u2018Nazi font\u2019, I am saying that its use in the context
    of National Socialism may contribute to associations that make it inappropriate
    in some circumstances. In other circumstances, these associations may be irrelevant.\r\n\r\nBut
    the associations are not \u2018nothing to do with reality\u2019: they are part
    of reality that, depending on circumstances, are more or less relevant. Typefaces
    are regularly selected on account of their perceived associations, e.g. the use
    of Didot and Bodoni style types in fashion magazines because of their association
    with elegance and sophistication. Sometimes these associations originate extra-typographically,
    and sometimes they are deliberately fostered by designers, advertisers, etc. But
    just as it is legitimate to select a typeface because of such associations, it
    is legitimate to reject a typeface for the same reasons."
  created: '2009-11-10 15:12:25'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "They are part of reality if we continue to fall on our knees in front of
    political correctness, praising the God of \"Don't do that, its a No-No.\", yes.
    I can understand, what Kochlefel wrote in another forum over here. If jewish organisations
    would not like to see (old) german fonts used for their ads. But I cannot understand
    if (old) german fonts are okay, but no Fraktur fonts. Someone should explain it
    to them. Not a font is Nazi, what is in some peoples brain, is a wrong combination.
    And it makes no sense to say \"this is the reality, we have to live with it.\".
    That is my opinion. Since years I see these hate flames against german Fraktur,
    especially against fonts like Tannenberg. To respect these flames, means to respect
    opinions like in this thread about the battle of Tannenberg (where's the font
    name is coming from). Tannenberg font = Nazi = Tannenberg battle = Nazi. And this
    is wrong.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-10 16:14:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Someone should explain it to them.\r\n\r\nYes, but slowly, gently, <em>pragmatically</em>.\r\nNot
    via denial, not via blitzkrieg.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 16:22:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "So much of this discussion is too polemic for me. It assumes that there is
    a always a clear-cut right and wrong. This ties in to the whole German question.
    Perhaps the tragedy of 20th century societies was that it was not just a matter
    of black and white, or good Germans and bad Germans. There was a whole lot of
    gray. There were Germans in the 1930s who were not Nazis. But sometimes, some
    of them made decisions that inadvertently helped those on the wrong side reach
    their goals. This doesn't make them bad people, but even good people can sometimes
    make bad decisions.\r\n\r\nMany type founders in the 1930s were clearly hoping
    to cash in on the new \"nationalism\" wave in German society. The NS government
    told Germans to be proud of themselves, and many Germans were proud of their achievements.
    But the NS government wanted to harness this pride for evil purposes in the end.
    Companies who were not thinking of these consequences were quite eager to make
    money where they could.\r\n\r\nIn different ways, you see things like this today.
    I got sick last week in Berlin seeing a T-Mobile poster. On the poster, a young
    woman stands in front of a Berlin Wall piece and looks at her smart phone. The
    headline says (in German) \"borders were yesterday; today, there is no song that
    my phone doesn't recognize.\" What???!!! This is a publicly traded company cashing
    in on some peoples' sentimental feelings about German reunification, and I think
    that it is below the belt. People died trying to get across that wall. Yesterday,
    I know several people who cried while watching the remembrance festivities. But
    hey, isn't it so easy to make money like this?\r\n\r\nD. Stempel AG wanted to
    make money in 1934 when they released Tannenberg. They did not want to contribute
    to some typographic culture or to a vague notion of societal improvement. They
    wanted to pay the bills, and have something left over to spare. I wish that Stempel
    would have found a different tactic than to design a font that looks like the
    way Tannenberg does, and which is named what it is. I understand that Tannenberg
    is not an NS-proclamation. I will use plenty of German faces from the 1930s, but
    I am sorry\u2026 I do draw the line somewhere. And that line is Tannenberg. It
    is just too across the Nationialist gray area for me.\r\n\r\nGeorg, I know that
    you are Prussian and you love your heritage, but I am sure plenty of Frenchman
    and Englishmen in 1934 would have wished that Hindenberg had lost the second battle
    of Tannenberg in 1914. Just because all German nationalism isn't National Socialism
    doesn't mean that it has to be universally accepted. Moreover, looking back even
    on Hindenberg's personal career, he is not free from totalitarian taint. If he
    had made different decisions in his political life, the world would have been
    a better place today, perhaps. I don't see anything particularly noteworthy about
    the second battle of Tannenberg. \r\n\r\nBut even if Tannenberg had been called
    \"Frieden\" instead, I doubt that I would want to use it. Its design competes
    with National, and a number of post-1933 designs that were trying to make a quick
    buck on a wave that turned out to be very evil indeed. \r\n\r\nAnd I won't be
    taking the quiz on your website. My criticisms are the same as those already mentioned
    above. But I wish you the best of success with it anyway."
  created: '2009-11-10 16:35:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice, Dan.\r\n\r\n> Its design competes with National\r\n\r\nAre there any
    good samples of it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 16:51:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "What I mean is that many of these typefaces we are discussing were brought
    onto the market at a similar time. They are competitors. Stempel was hoping\u2014like
    always\u2014that printers would buy their typeface instead of something similar
    from Bauer, etc.\r\n\r\nI don't have any samples of these designs in use other
    than in the books already mentioned (like the three publications I'm aware of
    from the Cooper Union Show, and then the normal surveys of blackletter and/or
    German graphic design history).\r\n\r\nHrant, you may be interested in this book.
    It is only available in German, at least for the moment \u2013 <a href=\"http://www.typografie.de/Our-Books/Graphic-design/Andreas-Koop/NSCI::670.html\">NSCI:
    The Image of the National Socialists 1925\u20131945</a>."
  created: '2009-11-10 16:58:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: We haven't talked in ages, Hrant! It is a pity that I wasn't in Mexico City.
    If I am very lucky, I might be in LA for TypeCon next year. I'm good to go for
    Dublin 2010, though, I think.
  created: '2009-11-10 16:59:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Get lucky - LA is going to rule. But I'm looking good\r\nfor Dublin too.
    It would be great to meet up again!\r\nAlthough my \u0421\u0421\u0421\u0420 shirt
    is in bad shape.  ;-)\r\n\r\nThat book looks exquisite. Any hope of an English\r\nedition?
    Hey, maybe you should offer to translate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 17:08:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I will translate just about any type book from German to English if someone
    wants to make it worth my while! I bet that I'm pretty cheap, too\u2026 but no
    one has ever taken up the offer yet.\r\n\r\nI don't know about that publisher
    and English translations. They are a small company, and I think that they only
    have the capabilities to focus on the German-language market. Perhaps their authors
    are free to arrange international publication rights on their own? This is just
    one of several titles that seems like it could easily do well on the international
    design book market. But my point-of-view is just that of an outsider (and customer!)."
  created: '2009-11-10 17:12:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But the NS government wanted to harness this pride for evil purposes in
    the end. \r\n\r\nNo, they wanted to harness this pride--and more feeling of anger
    and humiliation from WWI and economic collapse--for evil *in the beginning*. Their
    evil purposes were clear from the start. And your stuff about shades of gray is
    wrong. \r\n\r\nThe Nazis were for power through domination and violence upon \"lesser\"
    peoples from the beginning. The choices were far more clear than you are indicating.
    The question was not of grays, but of whether to be complicit with evil, fight
    it, or be enthusiastic for it. It was a polarizing time. Now those who were simply
    complicit with evil had lots of motivation, as the Nazis would kill those who
    didn't go along. I am not saying that if I were in their shoes I would have done
    better, but what they did was not to choose among grays. The choice was to save
    your own skin by not opposing evil, or highly to risk it by opposition, or by
    going into exile. "
  created: '2009-11-10 17:33:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, there are always shades of gray; in fact there is never pure black
    or pure white. Just like there are people in the Israeli government who don't
    believe in ethnic cleansing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-10 17:37:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'Well, I am not saying that the Nazis were good at one point, only to become
    evil at a later point! What I mean is that Nazism began as a small movement, but
    became so big not just because they found lots more evil people, but also because
    many people helped their cause by not really caring or thinking through what they
    were doing. '
  created: '2009-11-10 17:42:12'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, its wrong to separate into WWI and WWII e.g.\r\nIt was one war from
    1914 to 1945. The Nazi were the logical answer to what happened after 9th of November
    1918. Germanny surrendered because of US president Wilson's 14 points. But the
    \"contract\" of Versailles had nothing to do with Wilson's will. It was a ahame
    for every german. So a general movement to national thinking began in Germany
    after 1918 and Hitler only concentrated it. No one wanted war in Germany, but
    become free again from underpressure. That's how it is. And the allies tried to
    hold Germany down to the ground at all. Churchill said it from 1925. So it came
    how it came. Germany lost this war and never ever came back.\r\n\r\nYes, I although
    became tears in my eyes looking TV yesterday night about re-union between middle
    and west Germany. But although because we still lost east Germany, where all my
    family is coming from. This today is Poland and a part is Russia. But I have a
    damned human right to be sad we lost east Germany. Its not only a piece of ground.
    Its our homeland.\r\n\r\nIts not so easy with beginners of the war. Its not black
    and white. Just how Dan said it. \r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-11-10 18:11:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Dan, I am admittedly no expert on the history, but in my understanding of
    it your view of it is not correct. Many Germans were attracted to evil because
    it promised power. And they did become evil as a result. It is in my view important
    to recognize the attraction of evil to people, the power of evil. If you don't
    see that you are missing one of the dangers to be combated. A great many Germans,
    under the pressure of humiliation, economic distress and the temptations of pride
    and domination, did become evil, and do evil things. The Nazis were an evil regime,
    and many, many Germans became evil in promoting and supporting it. This is an
    extremely ugly truth, but a truth none the less. \r\n\r\nI am not saying that
    Americans or Israelis or Armenians are inherently better or worse; I just think
    it is important not to minimize in any way how tempting evil becomes under certain
    circumstances, and with a certain outlook.  \r\n\r\nBy the way, this discussion
    relates to the \"banality of evil\" debate in which Hannah Arendt argued that
    Eichman was not a dedicated anti-Semite, but a go-along-to-get-along bureaucrat.
    But it turns out that is false; he was a dedicated anti-Semite. And I think that
    this general approach to understanding the triumph of the Nazis is wrong on an
    issue where it is important to get it right.  \r\n\r\nHrant, there are always
    grays, but I think the '30s in Germany was a time of extreme polarization in choices,
    with extreme penalties whichever way one went. It was a time of horrible choices,
    choices which no human should ever have to face. "
  created: '2009-11-10 18:14:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"The question was not of grays, but of whether to be complicit with
    evil, fight it, or be enthusiastic for it.\"</cite>\r\nAnd of course, the question
    of what is evil (or even Evil); or where its boundary to the Normal, the Common,
    and perhaps the Inconsequential lies, was crystal clear to everyone from the beginning.
    Just like it is to everyone today. :-\\  \r\n\r\nAs Otl Aicher writes: \"The Nazis
    have not fallen from the heavens, they have not risen from hell. They were simply
    the most consistent 'normal citizens' of the new times.\" Also: \"It is simply
    not true that the Nazis constituted a sudden outburst of something unforeseeable,
    of something completely anomalous. [\u2026] Every millionaire, today, believes
    in the same philosophies of progress and higher development, of struggle and victory
    over the weaker ones. He [the millionaire] would never admit that, nor would he
    need to, because it is outside of his personal judgment. He leaves it up to the
    normative power of money to create truths.\"\r\n(From Otl Aicher, \"Innenseiten
    des Kriegs\", my translation.)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"But it turns out that is false\"</cite>\r\nWilliam,
    that's a very easy way of refuting Hannah Arendt. Have some sources?"
  created: '2009-11-10 18:19:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, I wasn't refuting Hannah Arendt but referring to those who did refute
    her. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.slate.com/id/2234010/pagenum/all/|Here is a very recent
    criticism]] of her views, and of Heidegger, whose mistress she was, and whose
    enthusiastic support of Hitler she never came to terms with.\r\n\r\nWhat Otl Aicher
    wrote maligns every millionaire as believing simply in power and domination. I
    think that is simply crap, and an effort to minimize or excuse or condone the
    evil of those who actively supported the Nazis.\r\n\r\nEvery nation has plenty
    of people who are corruptible, as evil tendencies are a part of human nature.
    Thus if you want to say that the Nazis were but an extreme form of what has happened
    before and since, and could happen anywhere, I would agree. If you want to excuse
    or minimize the evil of promoting Nazis, or the actual extent of enthusiastic
    support for the Nazis in Germany in the 1930s, I would say that is wrong, both
    factually and morally.\r\n\r\nI would also say that Bleisetzer's claim that \"No
    one wanted war in Germany\" is ridiculous. Hitler wanted world domination, and
    was eager to go to war to achieve it, as history shows. And he found many in Germany
    eager and willing to fight in his cause. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-11-10 19:29:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Georg, WWII was not a \"logical\" result of Versailles. If no one wanted
    to fight, well then they shouldn't have. It is not so that the fall of democracy
    in the Weimar republic was inevitable. \r\n\r\nAnd please, let us not get started
    on the former German lands in the east. History is not just one side against the
    other. Other people are living in those territories now. This is settled law and
    history. Human rights? Who will argue seriously that life in the BRD is bad. Especially
    today, but even as early ago as the 50s. Sure, life can be hard anywhere. But
    it is less hard in today's Germany than almost anywhere else. "
  created: '2009-11-10 19:39:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Thus if you want to say that the Nazis were but an extreme form of
    what has happened before and since, and could happen anywhere, I would agree.
    If you want to excuse or minimize the evil of promoting Nazis, or the actual extent
    of enthusiastic support for the Nazis in Germany in the 1930s, I would say that
    is wrong, both factually and morally.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely the former, William."
  created: '2009-11-10 19:57:46'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Dan\r\n\r\n<cite>Human rights? Who will argue seriously that life in the
    BRD is bad.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you talking about the financial situation of the
    people only? The German constitutional court has a lot to do, because a few of
    our ministers claim, that they want to protect us against terrorism, when they
    castrate our civil rights. And Germany is not the only country, that goes this
    way. In combination with the shady sides of capitalism, that most of us notice
    (Hrant\u2019s link above), we are on a dangerous way. You will be welcome on the
    next \"Freiheit-statt-Angst-Demo\" in Berlin."
  created: '2009-11-10 20:38:36'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "William, you and I have <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/8856\">gone round
    on Arendt and Eichmann before</a>, and in a very similar context. All I'll add
    to what I said a few years ago is that the Rosenbaum piece in <em>Slate</em> you
    linked to on Arendt and Heidegger is just junk; Rosenbaum really has no idea what
    he's writing about. Even people convinced that Heidegger's philosophy is essentially
    National Socialist, or who think Arendt was tainted by her association with him,
    should steer clear of Rosenbaum's piece if they're looking for intellectual support.\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd like a better take on this issue, Altaira, conducted by people who know
    what they're talking about, check out <a href=\"http://crookedtimber.org/2009/11/10/typography-philosophy-and-the-nazi-question/\">this
    thread at Crooked Timber</a> and the discussion of Arendt and the linked articles
    and discussions that surely will ensue as the thread matures. The original post
    there, by the way, was--synchronicity!--about blackletter type as well as about
    Heidegger, and Robin Kinross himself has weighed in to the discussion.\r\n\r\nI
    just do not understand:\r\n\r\n -- why people have to insist that moral monsters
    have to look like cartoon demons in order to be evil; \r\n\r\n -- why we have
    to believe that ideas that give us no resistance to evil must be the same as or
    somehow necessarily lead to that evil; and--going back to Hrant's original post--\r\n\r\n
    -- why people think that the debate over whether a typeface has certain contingent
    and sometimes arbitrary cultural and historical connotations should be framed
    as whether that typeface is 'essentially' the quality or qualities in question.
    That frame is guaranteed to get you precisely nowhere fast."
  created: '2009-11-11 00:32:26'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: 'Oops, meant to say: the original post at Crooked Timber was also about Jan
    Tschichold and his later assessment of his approach to sans-serif type and the
    New Typography, where he worried that his tone in books like <em>Die Neue Typographie</em>
    was too similar to that of the Nazis. The blackletter stuff came up later.'
  created: '2009-11-11 00:40:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't see what's junk in Rosenbaum's article. And there are a number of
    others who have argued the same basic point about Arendt.  \r\n\r\nOn Heidegger,
    folks can compare his actual immense praise of Nazism and of Hitler, as quoted
    in [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heidegger_and_Nazism|the wikipedia article on
    Heidegger and Nazism]] with the apologists on the \"crooked timber\" commentaries
    and decide for themselves. \r\n\r\nIn my view, Heidegger's irrationalism opens
    the door to any fanatic philosophy, which is why he was able to defend Hitler
    and his follower Sartre able to defend Stalin. It's putrid philosophy. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-11 02:42:10'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "William, it's junk because: \r\n\r\n(1) it presents as 'new' allegations
    that have been tossed around for years; \r\n\r\n(2) it accuses by association
    and bad logic (Heidegger was a philosopher, Heidegger openly supported the Nazis
    with appeals to his philosophy, ergo Heidegger's philosophy must have caused him
    to be a Nazi, ergo further that reading his philosophy might cause anyone to become
    a Nazi, including Hannah Arendt, who must have caught Nazi from him when she slept
    with him, and then caught it again when doing the research for <em>The Origins
    of Totalitarianism</em>, and that she and Karl Jaspers must both have been acting
    from Nazi-apologetic motives when they tried to reinclude him in the Western conversation
    of philosophy);\r\n\r\n(3) it takes the arguments made by the authors of the books
    under review at face value without subjecting them to investigation, indeed without
    even mentioning except in dismissive asides ('Arendt's defenders') that many more
    scholars who have read (and understood) both authors extensively, who condemn
    Heidegger's support for the Nazis, and who have serious problems with both Heidegger
    and Arendt's philosophical approaches, think very little of the ideas the authors
    of these two books are promoting; and\r\n\r\n(4) it doesn't actually engage Arendt's
    philosophy, or Heidegger's philosophy, at all, which you would think would be
    a minimal requirement for explaining why they're so poisonous and why we should
    avoid them or slap at least Heidegger's books with warning stickers. (Note: quoting
    is not the same as engaging.)\r\n\r\nWilliam, I want you to know that I've thought
    a lot about our last argument. Since then I've read Judith Shklar's essay on Arendt's
    thought (<a href=\"http://books.google.com/books?id=x7zS55i9QzoC&pg=PA362&lpg=PA362&dq=shklar+arendt&source=bl&ots=ArBAE64IvU&sig=Ufh7o6piuTJi5wkNL5neB_29csM&hl=en&ei=5j_6StqgE8O1ngfesryFDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CAoQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=shklar%20arendt&f=false\">the
    Google Books preview is here</a>) and it seemed to clarify a lot about why Arendt's
    work in <em>Totalitarianism</em> and <em>Eichmann in Jerusalem</em>, and her relationship
    with Heidegger, is received the way it is among many in Jewish communities in
    the US and Europe and Israel. But whatever Arendt's own sins were, they don't
    justify lazy thinking about her work; and whatever Heidegger's sins were--and
    they were legion--there is an ethically  nontrivial difference between a philosophy
    that we can't use to rule out evil conclusions, and a philosophy that mandates
    them.\r\n\r\nBut I have hijacked Hrant's thread too much already. I'm happy to
    let you have the last word."
  created: '2009-11-11 04:51:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I do think this has all drifted too far from typography, please
    don't worry about the integrity of \"my\" thread, since I've already collected
    more than enough ammo from it. Basically you've hijacked a ship that has already
    docked and had its cargo delivered.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-11 05:02:51'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> ...but also because many people helped their cause by not really caring
    or thinking through what they were doing.\r\n\r\n? \r\n\r\nSee Prof. Karl D. Bracher
    -- Die deutsche Diktatur: Entstehung, Struktur, Folgen des Nationalsozialismus\r\n\r\nThe
    German Dictatorship: Origins, Structure and Consequences of National Socialism "
  created: '2009-11-11 05:09:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hrant has said intention is everything. Agreed.\r\nStempel was trying to
    generate profits.\r\nThat is evil.\r\n\r\nAs are we all.\r\n\r\nMilan Kundera
    postulated when we were expelled from Paradise humans were cast into linear time.\r\n\r\nI
    live with a cat whose needs are clear.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-11-11 06:51:20'
- author:
    name: "G\xFCnniGutenberg"
  body: "A luring title (how could one possibly pass by both an \u201CUrgent\u201D
    AND a \u201CVerboten\u201D in a title in the \u201CHOTTEST\u201D section?), a
    request so inconspicuously and yet containing every single ingredient for defty
    polemical online debates: Swastika! Nazi! Adolf Hitler!\r\n\r\nAnd as the Pavlovian
    bell rings, the finger-wagging and venom-spitting expectedly begins \u2212 reading
    all this leaves a somehow nasty taste in my mouth (even Mr Hrant already tried
    to close his Pavlovian Pandora\u2019s box).\r\n\r\nFortunately, someone explains
    us, backed by some evidence-based knowledge (wikipedia?) that the names of the
    \u201CSchlichte Gotisch\u201Ds already contain every single grain of past and
    future German ferocities. I mean if people had a closer and more watchful look
    on \u201CSchaftstiefelgrotesks\u201D in the beginning, they could have banned
    it at an earlier stage and thus spare us WW2, Auschwitz and the Allied flooring
    of whole cities!\r\n\r\nWanna know a secret? Stempel AG didn\u2019t even want
    to contribute to some typographic culture or to a vague notion of societal improvement
    like the foundries and type designers do nowadays! And to top it all, Stempel
    AG wanted to make money with Tannenberg!! \r\n\r\nCeleste, as a friend I have
    to warn you, if you keep chanting vulgarities like \u201CGerman pride\u201D, \u201CTannenberg\u201D
    or \u201CDeutchland\u201D in front of your screen, the fifth time you say it either
    Hitler, Wilhelm II or at least a dirty old Teutonic Knight could appear behind
    you and re-enact the Reich instantly! I wonder why you didn\u2019t even mention
    \u201CGro\xDFdeutsch\u201D - by the way a name that loses much of its scare factor
    as soon as one takes a closer look on its historical roots.\r\n\r\nBut maybe it\u2019s
    better to avoid the closer look on history since we run the risk of detecting
    and rejecting the blood-drenched symbols of British, French, Russian or Spanish
    imperialism or even find out that the country that considers itself messianic
    and chosen to dictate the world what\u2019s good and what\u2019s bad owes its
    very existence to genocide, slavery, expulsion and deprivation of land.\r\n[not
    that I really believe there\u2019s even one country, ethnic group or whatever
    on this planet that can disclaim credibly the committing of these crimes in its
    history]\r\n\r\nAs long as adults keep arguing seriously about what and who\u2019s
    to be labled as \u201Cgood\u201D, \u201Cbad\u201D and \u201Cevil\u201D and whose
    idol of reality is the One True God we can go on forever with redundant quarrels.
    Yeee-haw, bang, boom!\r\n\r\nA good many times it\u2019s the most devotional priestling
    who lures his prot\xE9g\xE9s into his confessional.\r\n\r\nHas every single one
    of us to be blamed for selective perception and hypocrisy after all? Of course
    not! Maybe you, her, certainly him, but not me!"
  created: '2009-11-11 10:50:47'
- author:
    name: "G\xFCnniGutenberg"
  body: "Oh, and on the type-relevant question in this thread:\r\n\r\nShould a designer
    make his client aware of possible connotations of fonts, symbols, colour schemes
    etc?\r\nI\u2019d say this is a major part of our job, isn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand I was wondering why this request came up at all, was it really
    that difficult to find some examples by yourself that would bring across your
    idea of a \u201CNazi font\u201D?\r\n\r\nAnyway, there are great examples of Gebrochene
    Grotesks in use, thanks for sharing them, and I think the \u201CHochzeitnudeln\u201D
    are just perfect. The label contrasts perfectly the often Mediterranean and squiggly,
    \u201Cscripty\u201D look of the competitive products and communicates credibility,
    honesty, solidity and a down-to-earth attitude for the brand.\r\n\r\nIs there
    a better way to say \u201CHartweizen\u201D?"
  created: '2009-11-11 11:13:09'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: 'FYI, <em>Blackletter: Type and National Identity</em>, the original publication
    of essays distributed by Princeton Architectural Press is in print [[http://www.incipit.com/contact.html|here]].
    You should note [[http://www.incipit.com/linkrefs.html|pricing]] is a fraction
    of the Amazon rate.'
  created: '2009-11-11 14:09:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Maurice, you ascribe to Rosenbaum a bunch of stuff he doesn't say, including
    everything in your #2. On #1, he only says some of the stuff is new, especially
    the evidence of Arendt's adoption of language from anti-Semitic thinkers. As to
    his lack of critique, this is a journalistic piece that comments on scholarly
    work, and doesn't pretend to be scholarship itself.  \r\n\r\nAs to the connection
    between Heidegger's work and violent, extremist politics, I think you don't get
    it. It isn't simply that Heidegger's philosophy doesn't rule it out. It is rather
    that it makes moves to permit and protect it philosophically. The denial of the
    validity of logic began with Hegel and was joined in him with new and extreme
    nationalism. Heidegger was only the latest in that line. Irrationalism protects
    dogmatism and extremism, and excuses for violence and racism. The historical evidence
    of the connection is clear because the same Hegelian philosophy was promoted in
    Japan and helped to support the WW II era Japanese militarism and racism as it
    did German militarism and racism.     \r\n\r\nThe link between Heidegger's philosophy
    and Nazism that Rosenbaum asserts is this: \"it becomes ever clearer that the
    allegiance was not merely opportunistic and careerist but derived from a philosophical
    affinity with his Fuhrer's effusions.\"  His comment is weak because he doesn't
    go into the \"affinity\", but I just have. Popper, in his \"Open Society and Its
    Enemies\" does go into the Hegelian background to totalitarian movements. He didn't
    discuss Heidegger because he had such contempt and revulsion for him that he didn't
    want to dignify him by discussing him. He respected Marx, and discussed him extensively,
    but just found the right wing defenders of a closed society too repulsive to mention. "
  created: '2009-11-11 14:30:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> was it really that difficult to find some examples by yourself\r\n\r\nThis
    is a place where people help each other. Sometimes that help comes in the form
    of saving time*; and to me time is the most valuable thing we have. So thank you.\r\n\r\n*
    Although I've also learned things thanks to this thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-11 15:06:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm an idealist. I will never believe that we shouldn't be naked in the forest
    making love whenever we feel like it and eating fruit.\r\n\r\nBut then we must
    protect our LoveMakingZone. LMZ\u2122.\r\n\r\nSo I'm a pragmatist that knows we
    live in a rotting empire that is going to result in fissures.\r\n\r\nFar from
    ideal or pragmatic, I write things.\r\nLike this.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-11-12 05:56:25'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Few years ago I was in Switzerland. Imagine a nice, safe place. St Gallen:
    ducks, trees, a street. Suddently I got frozen. It was a moment of subliminal
    fear. What did I see? A pink, innocent poster of swiss army, with a list of reservists,
    entitled \"Bekanntmachung\". It had the same colour, the same wooden block title
    and the same layout as german lists of mass shootings that every polish child
    knows from history classes. It was the only time typography acted this way on
    me. Freezing, freezing the blood for a moment.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------\r\n\r\nI
    cannot leave one thing without a comment. The teller in the article linked by
    Bleisitzer says:\r\n\r\n\"The Poles, initiated in the twenties three uprisings
    in order to win the Upper Silesia to Poland, even though a referendum organized
    by the League of Nations had voted in large majority to remain part of the Reich\".\r\n\r\nThe
    first uprising was the answer on german terror (massacres and repressions) on
    the future referendal terrain. The second exploded after next numerous acts of
    terror (Germans still controlled the administration and secret police). The last
    uprising changed the unprofitable result of the referendum, where polish majority
    voted against her interests. Let's remember that years 1918-20 were the time of
    polish-soviet war, when it wasn't clear if Poland would survive... After the referendum,
    Silesian activists resident in territories granted to Germany still suffered riot
    acts of terrorism. "
  created: '2009-11-12 16:03:26'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Often, history doesn't matter half as much as peoples' impressions it.  \r\n\r\nYou
    wouldn't use <a href=http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/device/novak/>Novak</a> or <a
    href=http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/genie/>Genie</a> in magazine for\u2014oh,
    say a conservative political organization. Not because  either is a \"hippie\"
    font and therefore, unconservative, but the association with things radical, hip
    & psychedelic is inescapable. \r\n\r\nWe all agree that fonts communicate more
    than the words they letters spell out, or we wouldn't be any more interested in
    them than everyone else. That \"something\" that they do communicate comes from
    someplace, and is not something a designer can have any control over. In the case
    of \"Nazi fonts\", it doesn't matter what the facts are. Yes Hitler may well have
    called them Jewish letters, but regardless of that, anytime a someone is trying
    to think of a font to use for something about the Third Reich, they are going
    to reach for something that evokes Nazism to them. Guess what it will look like
    most often. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-12 17:33:12'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "The first line in my post above should read \"\u2026 history doesn\u2019t
    matter half as much as peoples\u2019 impressions <cite>of</cite> it. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-13 03:59:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's something creepy:\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c1/Replica_Sign.jpg\r\nIt's
    a replica of the entrance sign at the \"concentration-camp light\" where the US
    imprisoned Japanese people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 07:04:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>Here's something creepy:\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c1/Replica_Sign.jpg</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    not only damn ugly, but looks like a montage, a fake. Are you sure, that it is
    authentic?"
  created: '2010-03-29 13:11:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Google the thing, Arno. Like Hrant said, it's an (almost identical) replica
    of the original sign. Here's a whole blog post about the lettering on that sign,
    including an appearance of the son of the guy who originally painted it:\r\nhttp://blog.threestepsahead.com/rants/whats-in-a-font%E2%80%94the-manzanar-war-relocation-center-sign/\r\n\r\nCreepy
    indeed (although this article comes to the conclusion that maybe it wasn't intended
    that way\u2026 which doesn't change the fact that it reads that way though!)."
  created: '2010-03-29 15:17:02'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Authentic, Ansel Adams photo: http://www.nps.gov/manz/photosmultimedia/ansel-adams-gallery.htm?eid=132396&root_aId=202#\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20061011134538_4153.jpg]\r\n<em>the
    Nazi association</em>\r\n\"The original Arbeit macht frei inscription, stolen
    from above the main gate at the site of the Auschwitz Nazi German concentration
    camp and extermination center in Dcember 2009, returned today to the Auschwitz-Birkenau
    State Museum.\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amf_2_4487.jpg]\r\nphoto
    Pawe\u0142 Sawicki\r\n\u201Cwww.auschwitz.org.pl\u201D"
  created: '2010-03-29 15:44:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, the Auschwitz sign lettering has nothing to do with this.\r\n\r\nNina:
    very interesting article, thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 15:50:09'
date: '2009-11-07 15:23:14'
node_type: forum
title: 'URGENT: Tannenberg? Verboten! No really, in this case.'

---
