---
author:
  name: viamedia
  picture: 118255
body: "I spent most of yesterday wading through EULAs and EULA discussions here and
  elsewhere. (A lot of the threads and resources are a few years old, unfortunately.)\r\n\r\nOne
  of the really gray areas for me is reference to \"modification\" and \"derivative
  works,\" especially as regards logos. I've been coasting along thinking that these
  clauses referred to the font software. That I was disallowed from cracking open
  the code and modifying the invisible 1s and 0s to suit my purposes, or to create
  another font-focused product - a derivative work - for sale (either directly to
  the font consumer market or to a design client as a custom in-house tool). While
  most EULAs are super vague on this, I've recently tripped across some that specifically
  prohibit logo design (without paying additional license fees). I also found one
  that prohibited using the font in \"blasphemous\" works, which really cracked me
  up!\r\n\r\nMy standard practice is that I never give a client a font file. If they
  want to use the chosen further but without my involvement I tell them where to license
  it (thereby, hopefully, further supporting font designers and foundries). What I
  do give to my logo clients is a vector version of their logo for whatever use they
  desire. \r\n\r\nThis seems to be acceptable practice from everyone with whom I have
  corresponded on the subject. However, one foundry representative recently told me
  this is only acceptable practice as long as I <strong> modify </strong> the letter
  form to make it my own work. That if I simply use an outline of the company name
  in the given font without making any changes to the letter forms, then I need to
  pay for further licensing.\r\n\r\nSo now I'm wondering what degree of change is
  needed and does this then violate the seemingly opposing concept of derivative work?
  (Sorry if these questions are naive, but they are nagging me.)\r\n\r\nAttached is
  a super simplistic \"logo\" done in completely unmodified Geneva. This post is about
  the font, so I have added no embellishments that would normally be part of my design
  process. The plain source image is followed by six variations of same. In all six
  versions I outlined the font in Illustrator and then began modifying - either wholly
  or in part - various portions of the outlines.\r\n\r\nI'd hugely appreciate it if
  the font designers or foundry reps on this forum would weigh in on what would be
  acceptable to them or not as part of a standard commercial-use EULA that would come
  with a purchase from someplace like MyFonts.com or similar. (Of course anyone is
  welcome to comment!)\r\n\r\nMy goal here is to really understand how to honor a
  EULA. I also want to learn which foundries and designers fit well with my work existing
  flow and practices (and embrace them and license their designs) and which don't
  and may need to be avoided unless demanded by my client, who will be willing to
  pay the additional fees (if any).\r\n\r\nA reasonable approach?\r\n\r\nRobert\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestSOURCE_5897.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestA_3524.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestB_5374.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestC_4214.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestD_5505.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestE_4019.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FONTtestF_6129.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "One thing you have to keep in mind is that a EULA is a contract. One that
    the end user chooses to enter into when they purchase the font license. \r\n\r\nThe
    owner of the IP governed by the EULA can put any terms they want into that contract.
    For instance our EULA forbids using our fonts for political or religious uses
    without written permission. \r\n\r\nAnd while you may feel that EULAs are vague,
    also remember that they are written for the court. Hence they are, most likely,
    not vague at all (if they are written properly) but may use language that is not
    familiar to you. But then again, you are not the court."
  created: '2009-11-15 21:25:23'
- author:
    name: viamedia
    picture: 118255
  body: "James - at least I'm guessing this is James, since people tend to not sign
    their posts around here - I do understand the contractual nature of a EULAs. The
    whole purpose for asking these questions is to make informed choices about which
    foundries I should engage.\r\n\r\nYou say that your EULA your forbids use in political
    or religious contexts without prior written permission. (The reasons behing that
    would make an interesting thread of its own.) You are entitled to make that restriction,
    but I tell you from my perspective that such a restriction will keep me away from
    your product. I don't want to have to try to remember which of the hundreds of
    fonts in my library may gum up the works if I have shown it to a church or mayoral
    candidate and they decided it is the only font for their logo. It's just simpler
    to not have any Terminal fonts in my library so that mistake is not made. \r\n\r\nFYI,
    in a perusal of MyFonts.com, I find your font Rawlinson. When I view the buying
    options it takes me to:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/terminaldesign/rawlinson/buy.html\r\n\r\nThe
    pre-purchase license agreement there states:\r\n\r\n<strong>Indie Fonts License
    Agreement\r\n\r\nThe CD-ROM included with this Indie Fonts book features fonts
    licensed for use by the owner of the book. The individual foundries with fonts
    on the CD-ROM spell out the exact terms of their respective license agreements.\r\n\r\nAs
    with all licensed software, the re-distribution, or \u201Csharing\u201D of these
    fonts is discouraged -- it is ultimately not benefificial to the designers of
    the typefaces. We encourage you abide by the terms of use set forth by each foundry
    represented in this publication, and the rest of the talented type makers hard
    at work throughout the world.\r\n\r\nPlease support these artisans so that they
    may continue in their efforts to provide us with those essential tools of creativity
    and communications -- new typefaces.\r\n\r\nPlease design safely.</strong>\r\n\r\nSo
    your font is being sold without your prerequisite being stated prior to purchase.
    \r\n\r\nIn another instance, your font ITC Nora is listed at MyFonts.com as not
    for sale there and links forward to International Typeface Corporation. That page
    says nice things about your wife, but nothing about your desired restrictions.
    I went as far as searching the ITC site for EULA and got nothing specific. I set
    up an account and put the font in the shopping cart and still could not review
    the EULA for your font. I stopped short of adding credit card data because I did
    not intend to purchase the font and it was not clear that I would be able to cancel
    the order prior to being charged.\r\n\r\nSo you state you have a condition and
    here are two instances where I could have unwittingly made a purchase, having
    exercised due diligence in reviewing the terms, without knowing I was getting
    a use-limited font - and I would have been pissed if I had.\r\n\r\nYou might want
    to review your contracts with your distribution outlets.\r\n\r\nRobert"
  created: '2009-11-15 23:05:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "While there is no such thing as a \"standard commercial-use EULA\" (nealy
    every foundry\u2019s is slightly different), it's probably fair to say that <em>most</em>
    will allow you to use a font for a logo whether or not you modify the lettershapes.
    Exceptions are usually in the case of dingbat/symbol fonts from which logos or
    other products are prohibited without an extended license.\r\n\r\nWhat <em>most</em>
    foundries won't allow is the editing of the fonts themselves in a font editor
    without permission."
  created: '2009-11-15 23:37:19'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Robert,\r\n\r\nIf you look at my profile you will know who I am, no need
    to guess, all you have to do is click on the terminaldesign link. I clicked on
    yours and now I know more about you. Try it, it doesn't hurt.\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    I tell you from my perspective that such a restriction will keep me away from
    your product. </cite> \r\n\r\nThat's fine with me. I don't need to license my
    fonts to every Tom, Dick and Harry. If you don't like my EULA, so be it. I like
    my EULA.\r\n\r\nWhatever Myfonts has stated in regards to my Rawlinson design
    is immaterial since they do not have the right to sell it. They only have the
    right to sell the IndieFonts 2 book, and those terms were agreed upon way too
    many years ago.\r\n\r\nI am more that what you find on myfonts. Didn't you feel
    it necessary to do a web search?\r\n\r\nThe ITC fonts are ITC fonts and they are
    out of my control, and they were licensed to ITC close to 15 years ago.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to review the EULA that I enforce on my fonts please go to the terminal
    design website. It is all there under the licensing tag.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-16 01:50:39'
- author:
    name: viamedia
    picture: 118255
  body: "James:\r\n\r\nYou seem to be trying to make this personal with snide asides
    like \"...every Tom, Dick and Harry.\" What's the point in that?\r\n\r\nI did
    look at your profile which is how I learned your name. I then researched the things
    you mentioned, starting at MyFonts.com, which is where I start on all font related
    questions (or at least did until I discovered this forum). That led me to ITC.
    I also looked at the license agreements on your site. Since they were out of sync
    with the others I found I thought I'd mention that - as a courtesy. I did the
    same with another font designer and he was very pleased to know that a site was
    still displaying an out of date EULA for his work.\r\n\r\nMy goal in having these
    discussions is to further educate myself and to foster more general dialogue between
    font consumers and font purveyors so that everybody wins. Reasonable?\r\n\r\nRobert"
  created: '2009-11-16 02:46:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Here''s the thing: The reason there''s no such thing as a standard EULA is
    because there is no standard business model in the font business. The EULA is
    the embodiment of a font vendor''s business proposition with the customer. When
    you "buy a font" you''re not actually buying a font. You''re buying the right
    to use a font according to the terms of the EULA. What you''re paying for is whatever
    the EULA says, not "a font". The font developer (usually) is the owner of the
    font. The "font buyer" is simply licensing it for some use. The EULA is meant
    to cover the most typical uses so that it doesn''t need to be negotiated for every
    case. Yes, this makes things a bit complicated for the customers, but the alternative
    (negotiating every license) would be crazy. An "industry standard EULA" would
    also be crazy. The system, such as it is, exists because it works reasonably well
    for both sides.'
  created: '2009-11-16 06:19:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Robert, It's all personal. Don't believe all that stuff in the mafia movies
    about the difference between what is personal and what is business. \r\n\r\nOne
    thing about a EULA that you should remember. There is usually a clause in there
    that indicates the agreement can change anytime the holder of the IP desires it
    to. So if you license fonts under the terms of a EULA#1 from Type House A and
    Type House A later changes the terms of EULA#1 to be more restrictive, those new
    terms apply to your previously licensed fonts.\r\n\r\nThank you for your concern
    about my EULAs. Mine are all in order. What ITC does is ITC's business. Just one
    more reason I'll never sub-license my fonts to a third party again. The fonts
    in the Indie fonts book all have their own separate EULAs. At least I provided
    one to accompany the Rawlinson font. That feel good statement you quote is not
    a EULA."
  created: '2009-11-16 12:59:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Perhaps there's a potential for some sort of standard font licensing that
    foundries could use (voluntarily, of course). Something akin to how Creative Commons
    licenses have standardized a lot of the 'free' content out there.\r\n\r\nI agree
    with both terminaldesign and viamedia. Foundries should be able to put whatever
    they want into their EULAs. And that can be confusing for consumers to keep track
    of everything. \r\n\r\nKnowing which fonts can/can't be used for logos, or political
    campaigns, or PDF embedding, or @font-face use can be daunting to keep track of
    and, my hunch is, few do, thereby making the EULA less useful. "
  created: '2009-11-16 17:47:12'
- author:
    name: viamedia
    picture: 118255
  body: "Guys....GUYS! I know what a EULA is. I know why a EULA is. I know one size
    does not fit all (though I still believe some industry standard form with areas
    for terms and condition unique to each foundry would go a long way to understanding
    and compliance). I also get why they can be alternately described as complicated,
    vague and user-unfriendly. I know that I am not buying, but rather licensing the
    right to use something called font software and that it comes with proprietary
    information and defensible IP rights. \r\n\r\nThe question - which I believe was
    stated pretty clearly - that hasn't been answered is: <strong>Would the above
    examples and procedures shown above be considered permissible use of the font
    software your business currently offers for licensing under your standard commercial
    EULA?</strong> \r\n\r\nThe folks from Greater Albion answered the question directly
    in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/64235\">another thread</a>. I've licensed
    their font and have put them on the list of foundries to visit when I am in search
    of a new font. That is my personal goal here - to learn which foundries offer
    terms compatible with my work process and to support them. I'm doing it in this
    forum rather than direct email so that the information might be available to other
    designers who have the same questions.\r\n\r\n<strong>James:</strong> Sorry you
    are unhappy with your sub-licensing experience. We all get screwed from time to
    time, with no kisses. My credit card company changes the terms of our contract
    constantly. They go through the expense of notifying me by mail and it is up to
    me to read the five point text to see if they've changed anything with which I
    do not agree and decide if I need to act on that change. My contracts with clients
    state that any changes need to be in writing and agreed to by the parties. I hope
    that any foundry or font designer who wishes to change their terms would do something
    similar, rather than just make the change with no notification to those affected.
    (/James)\r\n\r\nI'm really just trying to be the good citizen here.\r\nRobert"
  created: '2009-11-16 18:14:26'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "To answer your question, none of your examples would violate the terms of
    my standard EULA. Generally, I draw the line with anything that involves distributing
    or redistributing the fonts as fonts.\r\n\r\nYou can see my current EULA here:
    http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/msslicenseagreement.html"
  created: '2009-11-16 20:31:36'
- author:
    name: viamedia
    picture: 118255
  body: "Thank you, Mark! I did look at your EULA when we had our offline conversation.
    Still in love with Kinescope, but Mostra is looking pretty tempting too! \r\n\r\nRobert"
  created: '2009-11-17 00:28:37'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "Robert,\r\n\r\nYour examples would also be acceptable under the terms of
    the Ascender EULA: http://www.ascenderfonts.com/info/font-licensing.aspx\r\n\r\nBill
    Davis\r\nAscender Corp"
  created: '2009-11-17 01:33:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Did you miss my answer to your question, Robert?
  created: '2009-11-17 03:39:46'
- author:
    name: dl
  body: "Ok. I can say I got lost along the way. Really, what seemed like a simple
    question way at the beginning, somehow got rather convoluted by the end.\r\n\r\nSo
    what's the answer? Can designer's use a typeface - one they have purchased - to
    design a logo for a client? Does it depend on the foundry? And where does a designer
    find such information? The EULA?"
  created: '2009-11-17 16:33:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Does it depend on the foundry?\"\r\n\r\nYes. More specifically, it'd depend
    on the particular EULA attached to the particular typeface. "
  created: '2009-11-17 17:40:40'
- author:
    name: viamedia
    picture: 118255
  body: "@billdavis \r\n\r\nThanks, Bill! Ascender is on my list now. FYI, I get an
    \"access denied\" message when I click on the URL listed as your home page. Perhaps
    I'm really not supposed to see it, but thought you should know.\r\n\r\n@Stephen
    Coles\r\n\r\nI did see it, Stephen, but did not dig deeper at the time because
    there was no yes/no component to it. It felt like a more general observation.
    Apologies. Now that I see you are with FSI, which is a reseller (is that a dirty
    word in type circles?), may I query you on a specific product you represent if
    the EULA is not clear (to me) or would you prefer I go a different route?\r\n\r\n@dl\r\n\r\nThe
    thread did get a bit sidetracked, but is coming back in line. @aluminum is (sadly,
    for those who prefer the simple life) quite correct. The EULA is not always foundry-wide.
    It can change from font to font. Sigh. Also, with some font collections from resellers
    (there I go again) the individual fonts in a collection will (often) have different
    EULAs.\r\n\r\n@aluminum\r\n\r\nNice portfolio PDF, Darrell!"
  created: '2009-11-18 18:53:08'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>FYI, I get an \u201Caccess denied\u201D message when I click on the URL
    listed as your home page. </em>\r\n\r\nThis happens if the \"http://\" is left
    out when filling in the field for \"home page\" on the user profile form. It ought
    to mention that on the form or, better yet, automatically fix it if it's missing."
  created: '2009-11-18 19:22:47'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> may I query you on a specific product you represent if the EULA is not
    clear (to me)\r\n\r\nCertainly."
  created: '2009-11-19 00:30:03'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: "Not sure if this is helpful. The following foundry-by-foundry EULA table
    has categories for modification and derivative work.\r\n\r\nhttp://fontlab.wikidev.net/Image:Interrobang2-EULA-chart.gif\r\n\r\nI
    was researching this subject myself a few months ago and found the following post
    entitled \"Altered Fonts and Legal Issues.\"\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33629\r\n\r\nMy
    view is that if you are unsure, why not get in touch with the owner of the font?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 07:19:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Unfortunately that table is quite outdated. I know because I designed it.
  created: '2009-11-19 08:42:11'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> So if you license fonts under the terms of a EULA#1 from Type House A and
    Type House A later changes the terms of EULA#1 to be more restrictive, those new
    terms apply to your previously licensed fonts.\r\n\r\nHas that clause ever been
    tested in court, James? \r\n\r\nI cannot imagine any court upholding such a one
    sided clause, unless the Type House has communicated notification of the change
    to the second party."
  created: '2009-11-19 18:23:18'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: "Ahh... now we have our answer.\r\n\r\nJust ask Stephen!!\r\n\r\nThanks for
    the heads-up."
  created: '2009-11-19 20:39:57'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: Can there be to little modification? In the ABC example, what if just a 1
    point stoke was added and made into a logo? Would I violate the EULA? Or, maybe
    only just lower the crossbars of the A, keeping all else the same?
  created: '2009-11-25 13:49:02'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: No, that would not violate most EULAs. Now if you lowered the crossbars in
    the font data itself and generated a new font, that <em>would</em> violate most
    EULAs. Again, check with foundry/reseller to be sure.
  created: '2009-11-25 17:15:19'
date: '2009-11-15 19:55:07'
node_type: forum
title: Fonts For Logos (Calling All Foundries!)

---
