---
author:
  name: melo
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Atlantic_maher_sm_4866.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
  is the secret to setting such beautiful type? It's not only justified and I don't
  see any hyphenation. What techniques are used here to accomplish such perfect justification?\r\n\r\nAny
  links or advice on such techniques would be great. "
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Let your H&J system scale text horizontally 2\u20133 percent and edit copy
    to prevent/fix really bad lines."
  created: '2009-11-18 05:13:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's hard to observe the justification at this size of reproduction.\r\nHowever,
    there are some issues in the layout.\r\nOne should try to avoid paragraphs beginning
    at the top of columns.\r\nThat makes it too easy for the reader to skip text,
    and for instance begin at the top of the second column, rather than deal with
    the un-buffered jump from drop cap to text, which creates a semantic schism in
    the first word, exacerbated by the gutter-width gap between drop cap and body
    text.\r\nFunction over beauty...\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-18 05:51:00'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: "The one time when I did a bunch of this type of layout (in the good old days
    of Quark), I used the image and headers as my variables -- resizing them and shifting
    the columns up and down until they were close to where I wanted them. Then I did
    what James and Nick mentioned, minus the H&J part. \r\n\r\nI'm not even sure I
    understand what is meant by \"system scale text horizontally 2-3 percent\". But
    it sounds groovy."
  created: '2009-11-18 07:46:57'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "Glyph Scaling, perhaps?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture-1_6044.gif]"
  created: '2009-11-18 09:43:26'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: InDesign?
  created: '2009-11-18 10:41:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Pointing out the obvious here, but this is also highly language dependent.
    Don't try no hyphenation on such narrow columns in German\u2026"
  created: '2009-11-18 13:47:32'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\n<cite>and for instance begin at the top of the second column,
    rather than deal with the un-buffered jump from drop cap to text, which creates
    a semantic schism in the first word, exacerbated by the gutter-width gap between
    drop cap and body text.</cite>\r\n\r\nI am not sure, what you mean, partly because
    I am amateur and partly because of my English. Although I also feel, that there
    is something wrong with the layout, I had not been able to say, what is wrong
    there. It looks a bit, like the typographer followed a scheme, that he tried to
    follow, but it does not work in this case. It looks a bit strained.\r\n\r\nWould
    you drag the headline to the left, spare the first column and the initial? And
    you would not resize the image? Because of the random allocation of the fat black
    letter block (the initial and the headline) and the white room on the right side
    of the headline?\r\n\r\nBy the way, I feel not good with the block between the
    second and the third columns of the right page. I cannot comprehend the sense
    of the line at the top. But that\u2019s not all, which I am not able to get."
  created: '2009-11-18 16:07:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Glyph Scaling, perhaps?</cite>\r\n\r\nRight. The roots of contemporary
    H&J systems go back to the work done by Zapf and others in the 1970s and 1980s,
    which were designed with text scaling in mind. Most fonts can handle 2\u20133
    percent with no noticeable distortion. Some typefaces can handle more; Vialog
    was designed to distort 5% before it begins to show. Unfortunately many designers
    never use glyph scaling because they don\u2019t read beyond the most basic books
    on typography which usually insist that scaling type is always criminal."
  created: '2009-11-18 16:26:37'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Holy jumping picas!\r\n\r\nThere I was, shamefully hiding my dirty little
    secret of 2-3% glyph-scaling  of justified lines, certain, that if ever found,
    I would be dragged through the streets in a metal cage, clad in nothing but tared
    feathers and a foolscap.\r\n\r\nTurns out, even the venerable typophiles approve
    of this practice!\r\n\r\nTalk about coming out of the closet...\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-18 17:29:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Don't be afraid to reduce the desired word space value to something well under
    100%. You'd be surprised how good 65% or 70% will make most text.
  created: '2009-11-18 17:33:52'
- author:
    name: karinskij
    picture: 118318
  body: Yeah, and concerning word space, never keep that last 150%. It's so strange
    it's the default setting. I usually go for 80 - 90 - 100 in those boxes as a standard
    (but now I'll see how it look even more reduced thanks to the comment by Terminaldesign
    and this great thread.
  created: '2009-11-18 18:48:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s so strange it\u2019s the default setting.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think that the Indesign team purposely uses absurd H&J values to keep lazy designers
    from relying on them."
  created: '2009-11-18 19:32:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It looks a bit strained.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's perfection.\r\nBut most people
    prefer the Botox look.\r\nSo as a typographer, you have to know how to do slick,
    but then move beyond and give it a little bit of edge, of roughness, of personality."
  created: '2009-11-18 19:41:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "To a large extent, that 150% (or whatever) in the Max Word Space column does
    not have as much control as one would hope. When the H&J routine gives up and
    can't solve your line justification within your parameters, then it's fallback
    position will be to just throw in a bunch of extra space anyway. So don't think
    that you're limiting the spaces with that field.\r\n\r\nMostly it affects the
    threshold above which letter-spacing will be added (if you've allowed any). And
    it might slightly influence the calculations of a multi-line composition algorithm.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a danger that having too narrow a range of parameters will actually flummox the
    algorithm more often and yield gappier spacing, despite your desires to control
    it."
  created: '2009-11-18 20:17:53'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thanks, Nick. I did misunderstand you.\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nWith regard
    to the glyph spacing I will check with my laser printer, how dependent it is from
    the printing resolution. I belong to those ones, that never have heard before
    from professionals, that glyph scaling is anything else than criminal. I often
    was bothered by word spacings, that were too big, but I can\u2019t remember, when
    I felt bothered by hyphenation. Very interesting thread. I have to experiment
    more with all these parameters. There are many combinations. (I once have set
    up a short text, in which I changed the letter spacing from line to line. Very
    carefully, manually and without a big jump of the letter spacing of the line,
    that directly has followed, although I had heard, that this should not be done.
    But it worked fine.)"
  created: '2009-11-18 21:00:09'
- author:
    name: melo
  body: "Wow, great replies thank you all so much. I now know what I should be researching
    in order to improve my typography. This is great direction, thanks so much.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    just wanted to add that this wasn't my work nor was I looking for the overall
    design to be critiqued (though, that was appreciated) but the work of Pentagram
    (http://pentagram.com/en/new/2008/10/new-work-the-atlantic.php). Was looking through
    their impressive portfolio and just saw this type technique a lot and finally
    had to ask...\r\n\r\nThanks again everyone, if you have anymore input/suggestions...
    please keep it coming! I'm eager to learn. I spent 3 years in College and none
    of the above techniques were mentioned.\r\n\r\n@James Puckett - what books SHOULD
    I have read?"
  created: '2009-11-19 03:05:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's not beautiful type - that's a caricature of type.\r\nYou don't set
    text so that people admire how gray it is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 03:16:18'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>You don\u2019t set text so that people admire how gray
    it is.</cite>\r\n\r\nWould you go a bit more into details with your criticism,
    please? I think, the aim of having no hyphenation is exaggerated, but the evenness
    of the word spacing also can be influenced by the slight glyph scaling in a way,
    that there are no big holes between words, in which the view falls. So the legibility
    is partly dependent from the gray of the text blocks, isn\u2019t it? And then
    we would not admire the pure beauty, but the functionality (of the beauty). And
    for the case, that you don\u2019t mean the micro typography, could you propose
    an alternate macro typography (an alternate layout)?\r\n\r\n<cite>James Puckett
    - what books SHOULD I have read?</cite>\r\n\r\nI second that question. And I add
    the question for German sources with regard to the H&J system."
  created: '2009-11-19 07:08:25'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "<cite>And I add the question for German sources with regard to the H&J system.</cite>\r\n\r\nSpiekermann:
    \xDCberSchrift\r\nPhil Baines/Andrew Haslam: Lust auf Schrift\r\nHans Peter Willberg/Friedrich
    Forssman: Lesetypographie\r\n\r\nGibt\u2019s alles beim Verlag Hermann Schmidt,
    Mainz."
  created: '2009-11-19 09:49:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: Thanks, Juergen. I borrowed the first edition of <em>Lesetypografie</em> a
    while ago, but I must have skipped the part about glyph scaling.
  created: '2009-11-19 10:05:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So is glyph scaling officially cool now or what? For the record, I'm one
    of the people who never do it, on principle (and I've been cutting down on the
    negative tracking too). There are limits to squeezing stuff in, and essentially
    violating the design of the font is too much of a sacrifice in my book (scuse
    the bad pun).\r\n\r\nBTW, I can't find anything about glyph scaling in <em>Lesetypografie</em>."
  created: '2009-11-19 12:37:26'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Oh, i didn\u2019t mean the glyph scaling is mentioned in Lesetypographie.
    Just the mentioning on how to set the H&J.\r\n\r\nAnd in fact, i agree with Nina.
    If one is going to experiment with extending the scaling beyond 3%, we end up
    with the terrible justified setting at the beginning of DTP. And i don\u2019t
    design typefaces with the intention that they should be scaled horizontally."
  created: '2009-11-19 13:08:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "If you click on the image at the Pentagram blog and get a larger version
    of the sample <em>Atlantic</em> spreads, you'll see that there is plenty of hyphenation.
    They happen to be using InDesign's optical margin alignment to hang the punctuation,
    and in a small screen image the hyphens virtually disappear.\r\n\r\nThere are
    also plenty of gappy lines. For instance, take a look at the first line in the
    second paragraph in the second column [<em>Twain's atheism was famously</em>]
    or the first line at the top of the last column [<em>(Thetans ... E-meters!).
    Medieval</em>].\r\n\r\nI'm not criticizing the work. I'm just pointing out that
    this is pretty standard fare. Nothing so \"perfect\" about it.\r\n\r\nAnything
    relatively competent will look that gray and even when you zoom out far enough."
  created: '2009-11-19 13:42:57'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: Haha, well spotted, Kent!
  created: '2009-11-19 13:45:06'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: Gutenberg made nearly 300 characters for his Bible. I've read that this was
    done, primarily, to achieve even word spacing. Is this true? If so, does anyone
    know how many varieties of certain glyphs he created? Do you view today's glyph
    scaling as the digital equivalent to Gutenberg's multiple glyphs?
  created: '2009-11-19 17:33:55'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> I\u2019ve read that this was done, primarily, to achieve even word spacing.
    Is this true? \r\n\r\nAnd I've read that he did it because he didn't want it to
    look mechanical, but to simulate the look of a manuscript, his competition. For
    that reason there are many versions of each letter. \r\n\r\nOf course, both could
    be partial reasons."
  created: '2009-11-19 17:49:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If one is going to experiment with extending the scaling beyond 3%,
    we end up with the terrible justified setting at the beginning of DTP.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    there was no question of unlimited scaling, but 2\u20133 percent only. If the
    very slight distorsion is not recognized, but the word spacing is more even and
    without holes, the strict principle should be broken by the more important principle
    <em>legibility</em>. And your typefaces are probably never printed in exactly
    the same way, as they look in your font editor. Good is, what works. If I draw
    an image and make a mistake \u2013 squirting ink unintentionally for example \u2013
    I always check, whether the image looks better with the mistake instead of trashing
    it at once. My aim is not the full control about everything, that I do, but the
    result. The result may be not perfect without the mistakes. But naturally you
    should not blindly trust in your mistakes. I don\u2019t force me to make mistakes.
    <em>If then</em>, but not <em>then if</em>."
  created: '2009-11-19 17:54:04'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Roy:\r\n\r\nDale Guild Typefoundry, has a nice account of their attempts
    to recast a full set of Gutenberg's 42-line bible type.\r\n\r\nThey ended up with
    245 sorts.\r\n\r\nThey wrote:\r\n____\r\n\"The narrower letters were used to contract
    the length of a line and the wider ones to expand it. The space separating words
    remained constant.\" And again, \"\u2026the narrower or wider alternate characters
    were skillfully deployed to yield lines of identical optical width\u2026\" (Kapr
    *) These are faulty conclusions. Either the wider or the narrower characters are
    alternates. As the textual use of the wider characters out-number the narrower
    ones by approximately 3 to 1, the latter must be considered the alternates. What
    usually makes these alternates narrower is the fact that they lack serifs on the
    left side. They are never used or omitted to shorten or lengthen the space required
    by a given number of characters within a line. Gutenberg had employed them in
    both his earlier founts, the Sibyllenbuch and the Donatus/Kalender, but none of
    the extant printed specimens used justified lines. Their inception and use is
    purely aesthetic. They do not represent consciously narrowed letterforms. These
    alternates were cut and cast to create tighter fitting of certain character combinations
    that produced too much white-space within words. The alternates (left side sans-serifs)
    always follow C, E, F, X, Y, c, e, f, g, r, t, x, and y.\r\n\r\nFor the full text:\r\nhttp://www.daleguild.com/B-42_Story_01.html\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/potb3_big_4965.gif]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-19 18:01:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the legibility is partly dependent from the gray of the text blocks, isn\u2019t
    it?\r\n\r\nI don't see how. We just like to see things line up because it makes
    us feel in control. But in fact we're <em>losing</em> control of the reading experience.\r\n\r\n>
    could you propose an alternate macro typography (an alternate layout)?\r\n\r\nI
    don't use fonts, I just make 'em. :-)  But I don't mean to be flippant. I just
    know when something is wrong even if I'm not sure how best to fix it. But one
    can certainly pay attention to good typographers who are also sensitive to the
    micro world of fonts; and certainly <em>not</em> Modernists who are obsessed with
    Regularity.\r\n\r\nOne simple thing I can comfortably recommend\r\nthough is this:
    learn to love the right rag.\r\n\r\nAnd glyph scaling?! Maybe on a free font.\r\nNot
    one that's been crafted carefully in every detail.\r\n\r\nBTW, tracking is probably
    worse than glyph scaling!\r\n\r\n> Do you view today\u2019s glyph scaling as the
    digital\r\n> equivalent to Gutenberg\u2019s multiple glyphs?\r\n\r\nNo way.\r\nScaling
    is brutish. Alternate glyphs can be a great idea (although it's much more work)
    as long as it's done for the reader, not merely the viewer.\r\n\r\nBTW, Gutenberg
    didn't do that because he had high ideals. He was simply imitating the scribes*
    (as Don says). He <em>had</em> to come as close as possible to appease the critics
    of printing.\r\n\r\n* So why did <em>they</em> do it? Not sure.\r\nMaybe because
    hyphenation was\r\nseen as weak, hence unholy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 18:08:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If the very slight distorsion is not recognized\r\n\r\nBy the consciousness?
    Maybe.\r\nBut we don't read with our consciousness.\r\n\r\nAnd if scaling is OK,
    that means well-crafted [text] fonts are pointless.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 18:11:02'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>But we don\u2019t read with our consciousness.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    true, but I try to consciously make use of my subconsciousness. If the view falls
    into holes, you are pulled out of the unconsciously reading process, aren\u2019t
    you? I try to make comparative checks and I ask myself, with which alternative
    I feel better. Noone here said, that distorsion should not be avoided.\r\n\r\n<cite>And
    if scaling is OK, that means well-crafted [text] fonts are pointless.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.
    The conclusion is not allowed, because \u2018if \u2026, then \u2026\u2019 does
    not necessarily have the same truth value as \u2018then \u2026, if \u2026\u2019."
  created: '2009-11-19 18:34:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not absolutes, but:\r\nThe more it makes sense to scale type the less\r\nit
    makes sense to spend money on text type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 18:59:59'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Eh, guess I should go back into the closet.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-19 19:05:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why not just fix up the closet?\r\nNo closet is perfect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 19:32:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\nNo, it is not not absolutely true, it is wrong. A well crafted
    body text typeface might tolerate more mistreatment than a poorly crafted one.
    Might! And I assume, that the Indesign/Quark algorithms are not scaling all glyphs
    in all lines and all words; if they would, the scaling would be almost useless
    with regard to the evenness of the word spacing or the hyphenation. Nobody here
    said, that there should be established a general rule, that scaling is a good
    thing. James Puckett already wrote in the beginning, that <em>most</em> fonts
    can handle 2\u20133 percent with no noticeable distortion. I don\u2019t know,
    how many are <em>most</em>, but for sure <em>most</em> is not the same as <em>all</em>.
    And we are talking about body text, but not about headlines, logos or any other
    text, that is set in big point sizes. We all have these deterrent examples in
    mind. But I know extreme examples set in big point sizes only. I never have tested
    scaling body text with 2\u20133 percent, neither globally nor with the Indesign
    algorithm.\r\n\r\nBut perhaps it is easier, if I illustrate the logic of your
    sentence in another way: Imagine two men. The one was born with two arms and legs,
    the usual condition. The other one was born with one arm and two legs. Would you
    say now, that the one-arm-man better can abandon his arm? In fact, you cannot
    conclude anything on this base, because it may be, that the one-arm-man is palsied.\r\n\r\nHehe,
    probably the illustration is harder to comprehend. But I don\u2019t delete it."
  created: '2009-11-19 19:44:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A well crafted body text typeface might tolerate\r\n> more mistreatment
    than a poorly crafted one. \r\n\r\nBut that's not the only way a text font can
    be well-crafted.\r\nIn fact that's pretty rare, probably because it's too much
    of\r\na design compromise. It's sort of planning for failure.\r\n\r\n> with no
    noticeable distortion.\r\n\r\nTo me that means I shouldn't be moving the vertices
    in\r\nmy text fonts by small amounts. But I don't believe that,\r\nbecause I don't
    design [only] for the consciousness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 20:22:56'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>But that\u2019s not the only way a text font can be
    well-crafted.\r\nIn fact that\u2019s pretty rare, probably because it\u2019s too
    much of\r\na design compromise.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut didn\u2019t you mean the care,
    with which a font is made? You were regarding to the technical quality with the
    term <em>well-crafted</em>, but not to the (raw) design, weren\u2019t you? If
    you mean the design, I agree with you, that there are well-crafted fonts, that
    are more robust than others. But if a font already is horizontally scaled with
    2\u20133 percent by a dilettante typemaker, the user would move it into the recognizable
    (by the subconsciousness) extreme, if he additionally would scale it horizontally.
    (In the same way as you loose information with every analog copy.) So the typedesigner
    should not say: \u2018I don\u2019t craft my fonts well, because the users don\u2019t
    handle them well.\u2019 This would be a defiance reaction.\r\n\r\n<cite>To me
    that means I shouldn\u2019t be moving the vertices in\r\nmy text fonts by small
    amounts.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy should the slight softening of the non-scaling-rule
    of the user change the rules of the typeface designer?"
  created: '2009-11-19 21:46:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So the typedesigner should not say: \u2018I don\u2019t craft my fonts well,
    because\r\n> the users don\u2019t handle them well.\u2019 This would be a defiance
    reaction.\r\n\r\nTrue.\r\n\r\nBut what I was saying is: somebody who thinks it's
    OK to scale fonts also thinks it's OK not to worry about small details at the
    letterform level.\r\n\r\nAnd going back in the discussion, to something more practical:
    don't scale fonts, not merely because some type designers mind small details,
    but because you can assume that the type designer of the font at hand minded the
    small details* and a simple horizontal scaling will do more harm than good (especially
    if the goal is a Modernist succubus).\r\n\r\n* Otherwise you should be using a
    font where that's the case.\r\n\r\nIf you need to scale type, learn how to do
    it well at the type design level, and maybe use OT for width alternates (assuming
    the EULA of the font you're using allows \"internal\" modification*). Don't just
    hit 103% in InDesign.\r\n\r\n* And the ones that don't are being unreasonable,
    in my book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 22:59:38'
- author:
    name: seventy7
    picture: 111185
  body: "<cite>\r\nNo way.\r\nScaling is brutish. Alternate glyphs can be a great
    idea (although it\u2019s much more work) as long as it\u2019s done for the reader,
    not merely the viewer.\r\n</cite>\r\nI agree. \r\n<cite>\r\nBTW, Gutenberg didn\u2019t
    do that because he had high ideals. He was simply imitating the scribes* (as Don
    says). He had to come as close as possible to appease the critics of printing.\r\n</cite>\r\nBut
    the scribes weren't producing texts with columns as tidily justified as Gutenberg's.
    I agree that Gutenberg's  multiple glyphs enabled his texts to look more natural,
    but I do believe that the number of alternate glyphs and ligatures were also created
    so he could achieve a strict justified column with even word spacing. As pointed
    out <a href=\"http://www.hrc.utexas.edu/educator/modules/gutenberg/invention/familiar/\">here</a>,
    the strict justified columns are one of the ways scholars distinguish Johann's
    work from manuscripts. So, it appears that the even columns and spacing in his
    work were not part part of his goal of imitating the scribes. \r\n\r\nFrom the
    above link:<cite>\r\nOne way to distinguish between Gutenberg's printed Bible
    and a manuscript Bible is that in the printed book, all lines of text are brought
    to equal length in the column, forming justified lines. The strictly justified
    lines of Gutenberg's Bible were considered by some to be superior to the slightly
    uneven lines of a manuscript Bible. \r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nPersonally, I'm against
    scaling glyphs <em>and</em> spaces. I was taught by a thoughtful typographer that
    doing so was to butcher the balance and detail put into the font by the type designer.
    (Not to mention the readability issues). But practically speaking, I'd wager most
    typographers, book designers publication designers and graphic designers in general
    don't have the skill (Or the time. As you pointed out, it's much more work) to
    scale type at the type design level. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 01:24:50'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: I am against scaling glyphs. Period. Ragged right is the way. Justification,
    sure, go for it, but don't use glyph scaling to make up for lousy practices. And
    don't leave last lines in a paragraph with one word. I think that is a basic practice
    and a no-no. Glyph scaling is a cheap way to make text look better!? How?
  created: '2009-11-20 21:08:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Glyph scaling is a cheap way to make text look better!? How?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    wonder, whether really all of you, that insist in the strict rule, have tested
    the <strong>slight</strong> glyph scaling in body text. I mean the algorithms
    of Quark XPress and Indesign. I did not test it. But maybe I am coming to the
    same result.\r\n\r\nI think, there is one thing, that you forget, when you talk
    about well-crafted fonts. The very most body text fonts don\u2019t have optical
    styles. And almost nobody of you typedesigners tell the potential customers on
    your websites, under which printing circumstances and in which point sizes your
    fonts should be used.\r\n\r\nTypetogether writes about Athelas: \"Athelas also
    takes advantage of the great advances and technical developments made in offset
    printing.\" Nevertheless <strong><a href=\"http://www.type-together.com/index.php?action=portal/viewContent&cntId_content=2682&id_section=146\">the
    letterpress print of Athelas</a></strong> seems to work. And it really looks dark
    in the letterpress print (and probably lower contrasted).\r\n\r\nI own a book,
    that is printed in Stempel Garamond. A dirty print in my opinion, because on the
    one page the text is relatively thin and on the other really fat. In other words,
    on one of the pages the original outline does not match with the printed outline.
    Nevertheless I enjoy reading it. It is very legible.\r\n\r\nWhat would you think,
    if the user enbolds one of your well-crafted fonts? Is the digital version of
    Stempel Garamond well-crafted? It is not the same as scaling, I know, but probably
    it is also not that, what you have wished, when you have designed your typefaces."
  created: '2009-11-20 21:54:22'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Done a little test.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scaling_3946.gif]\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-20 22:38:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Arno, weren't you the one that said poor usage of a font\r\nshouldn't
    make the type designer regret doing a good job?  :-)\r\n\r\nIvan, why are the
    first paragraphs of the \"glyph scaling\"\r\ncolumns shorter? Is it OK that there's
    more narrowing\r\nthan widening?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 22:54:13'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: "oprion... thanks for the example!\r\n\r\nThe example defitely shows the technical
    differences, but with only 5-6 words per line, it's not a realistic application,
    imo.\r\n\r\nA 3-col layout with 6-9 words per line would give us a better feel
    for its readability."
  created: '2009-11-20 22:55:25'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ oprion\r\n\r\nOn screen we probably have to take the hinting into account.
    I doubt, that the differences can be estimated on screen. Did you print it out?
    And I think, that also a column should belong to the test, in which all glyphs
    are scaled, because I assume, that the probability, that the differences can be
    noticed, is higher then.\r\n\r\nBut to which conclusion did you come with regard
    to the distorsion of glyphs?\r\n\r\n@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>But Arno, weren\u2019t
    you the one that said poor usage of a font\r\nshouldn\u2019t make the type designer
    regret doing a good job?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but where is the contradiction? Everyone
    in the chain should give his best. If I take a picture on a 1000 ASA 35mm film
    with cheap lenses and a converter, I hardly can work out details in the darkroom."
  created: '2009-11-20 23:09:42'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@ Arno\r\nI printed out that page, and personally, can't see any noticeable
    distortions, while the benefit in tight spots (like extremely narrow columns and
    unusually long words) seems to be pretty obvious. I certainly wouldn't use this
    when setting in a comfortable measure, but can see myself resorting to this trick
    when all else fails.\r\n\r\nIn the days of metal type, glyphs-scaling (or rather
    squeezing) was rightfully frowned upon as it damaged the type (and could potentially
    crack up the chase,) but in our illustrious age...seems a tad less criminal.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-20 23:17:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can see myself resorting to this trick when all else fails.\r\n\r\nSure.\r\nThis
    is not a religion - everything has its usefulness.\r\n\r\nBTW, who told you that
    metal type can be squeezed? The most you can do is file the sidebearings (and
    not just flatly - you would even take chunks off to accomodate kerning). But that
    wasn't really frowned upon. In fact my letterpress teacher (our Gerald Lange)
    once told me that you could tell how good a printer was by looking at how much
    filing was evident on his fonts!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 23:26:31'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@ hrant\r\nThere is a reason, why people in composting rooms carried mallets.
    Hastily and badly crafted forms can be hammered into the chase under pressure,
    as improperly justified lines get squeezed by a few millimeters when the quoins
    are tightened. These forms, were always in danger of bursting in a little shower
    of lead, so the form makers sometimes poured beer on the underside to help sorts
    stick together. \"Just a thimble full for the comp\" - as it was called.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a great old song:\r\n\r\n'Twas a busy day in the print shop, with orders coming
    in fast.\r\nThe stoneman, in a frightful stew, was harried and harassed\r\nWhen
    up to the stone came a pressman with an injured look on his pan\r\nHe started
    to sing his song of woes as only a pressman can.\r\n\"That form's the bunk. The
    lockup's poor. The corners don't even meet.\r\nThe leads and slugs are bastard,
    and the type is off its feet.\r\nThe cuts are warped and rock like hell; the furniture
    is sprung.\r\nThe quoins are all ass-backward and the type's filled up with dung.\r\nI've
    done my best, used all my kinks, but it won't take the hint;\r\nFor two whole
    days I've sweated blood and I can't make it print.\r\nThe stoneman heaved a mighty
    sigh, his eyes a glassy stare.\r\nHe threw away his mallet as he wildly tore his
    hair.\r\n\"You've hammered and you've battered like a blacksmith on a drunk.\r\nYou've
    filled it up with cardboard and other kinds of junk.\r\nYou've pounded down the
    work-ups and you've nailed them with a tack.\r\nYou've turned the damn thing upside-down
    and daubed it with shellac.\r\nYou've screwed it up in every way that's known
    from A to Z.\r\nAnd now that it's a dreadful mess you bring your grief to me.\r\nThat
    form left here in tip-top shape, the lockup was the class.\r\nNow you can take
    the gosh-darned thing and shove it up your\"\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-20 23:50:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can (and should) tighten the lines slightly,\r\nbut you physically can't
    squeeze the letterforms!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 03:09:08'
- author:
    name: lotter
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nEarly implementations of microtypographic extensions for TeX
    explicitly allowed one to specify, in cases where a multiple master width-axis
    for a font was available, different designs in place of glyph scaling. The general
    feeling though is that it isn't worth the effort; unless the printing is being
    done to very high standards it's  difficult to discern glyph scaling of less than
    2% [try having your masterpiece printed on low quality paper and see how <em>
    that</em> effect overwhelms everything else \u2014 I speak from bitter (recent)
    experience.]     "
  created: '2009-11-21 16:04:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've had my fonts printed on all kinds of paper, by all kinds of people.\r\nBut
    as Arno said, that doesn't excuse carelessness.\r\n\r\n> it isn\u2019t worth the
    effort\r\n\r\nThe crushing majority of people on this planet\r\nthink that of
    any form of typeface design!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 16:12:29'
- author:
    name: lotter
  body: hrant, Of course you're right, it doesn't excuse carelessness, but the point
    is that a small amount of glyph scaling [bad, according to you] is very, very
    close in effect to using multiple width designs [which I assume you'd have no
    objection to?] to get better H&J... so why the strenuous objections to the first
    and not the latter?
  created: '2009-11-21 16:36:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In general, the less we settle for \"very very close\" the better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 16:39:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Like other typographic parameters, H&Js should relate to the job in hand.\r\nVariables
    such as measure (column width), leading, typeface, tracking, and word length all
    come into play.\r\n\r\nTolbert Lanston invented a system of justification by variable
    letterspacing, for the Monotype machine, in the early twentieth century.\r\nThis
    produced an appearance akin to the default that Quark introduced in the late 1980s.
    However, while Quark's method was accepted willy-nilly, foisted upon the industry
    as a fait accompli, Lanston's innovation was roundly dismissed and never made
    it to production. People preferred the large variation in word space they were
    used to, rather than a general watering-down of colour. So the \"perfect\" mode
    of justification is also culturally informed, specific to the contingencies of
    time and place."
  created: '2009-11-21 17:39:00'
- author:
    name: lotter
  body: "@Christopher: Yes, margin kerning makes for an enormous improvement \u2014
    the difference between mechanically- and optically-smooth margins is  something
    that I notice, <em>without</em> a jeweller's loupe.\r\n\r\n[BTW: The two links
    in your post are identical, the link to the thesis needs to be changed]"
  created: '2009-11-21 18:35:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> something that I notice\r\n\r\nBut 99% of readers don't (and if they do
    they don't give a crap).\r\nSo why bother?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 19:37:30'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>So why bother?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf we would talk about
    art, but not about typography, which is not necessarily art and which often should
    not be art, I would say, that you should give your best, even if nobody else than
    you recognizes it. In case of design you normally have jobs on demand, where a
    rational relation between money and invested energy must exist. But Indesign has
    an automatism for the margin kerning, as far as I remember. <em>Margin kerning</em>
    means <em>Randausgleich</em> in German, doesn\u2019t it? So I assume, that you
    would not loose much time, if you make use of the automatism, and you could use
    it independent from the question, whether you make art or design.\r\n\r\nAnd you
    already spoke out the truth: \u2018But we don\u2019t read with our consciousness.\u2019"
  created: '2009-11-22 00:39:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just to clarify: that was a sarcastic question.\r\nI think we should bother,
    and not just with\r\nstuff that the \"majority\" sees.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 00:43:37'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "\xC0 propos of the discussion:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>[[http://www.typografi.org/justering/oppfatninger/syn_english.html|Differing
    opinions on glyph scaling and letterspacing in text justification]]\r\n<li>[[http://www.pragma-ade.com/pdftex/thesis.pdf|Micro-typographic
    extensions to the TeX typesetting system]] (H\xE0n Th\u1EBF Th\xE0nh's dissertation)\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nTo
    my eye what keeps any of [[http://typophile.com/user/23991|@oprion]]'s glyph scaling
    experiments from reaching perfection is the lack of hanging punctuation (more
    generally, <em>margin kerning</em>), a favored micro-typographic technique to
    achieve <em>perfect</em> justification without resorting to glyph scaling.\r\n\r\n(Edited
    to correct link)"
  created: '2009-11-22 05:08:00'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "As an addition: Hermann Zapf's [[http://cajun.cs.nott.ac.uk/compsci/epo/papers/volume6/issue3/zapf.pdf|About
    micro-typography and the <em>hz-</em>program]] (PDF)\r\n\r\nIs anyone aware of
    more recent research in this area?"
  created: '2009-11-22 05:08:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Stiff, P. (1996). The end of the line: a survey of unjustified typography.
    <em>Information Design Journal, 8(2)</em>, 125\u2013152.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 17:17:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: It might be noted that in the case of glyph scaling by 2 or 3 percent, the
    scaling, of course, affects the width of vertical strokes. When the individual
    characters of a typeface are modified to fit within the constraint of something
    like the Monotype 18-unit system, the width of the vertical strokes would stay
    the same - and so it is reasonable to suspect that the scaling of 5 or 6 percent
    that this might lead to (changing 9.5 units to 9 or 10 units) would also be hard
    to notice.
  created: '2009-11-24 12:11:03'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Where text is set on a wide column justification isn't such a big problem\r\nas
    there are more word spaces (because there more words per line) amongst\r\nwhich
    the programme distributes the extra space.\r\n\r\nWhere justification becomes
    ugly is in narrow columns. Especially when \r\nyou have copy with words like telecommunicationetc.
    I think it's better \r\nto stick with range left setting where possible especially
    for narrow columns.\r\n "
  created: '2009-12-03 13:14:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Gary, why do you think publishers and readers have tolerated the "ugliness"
    of justification on narrow columns in newspapers, as the virtually unchallenged
    norm, ever since rag right became widely accepted elsewhere?
  created: '2009-12-03 17:10:07'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "People in composing rooms used anything that worked. Cigarette paper, especially.
    For adding minimal letterspacing and also to correct the height of type (not lino
    and mono, of course).\r\n\r\nOT: I know this is something I ALWAYS try to communicate,
    but the American standards for wordspacing are so far off, that it is almost criminal.
    InDesign or QXP \u2014 always start with adjusting the standard setting. In ID
    I start with something like 80/88/100 and make variations for difficult lines/paragraphs.\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-12-03 23:09:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Gerard Unger, Wie man\u2019s liest (While you are reading), chapter 19, ninth
    paragraph:\r\n\r\n\"In kurzen Zeilen stehen Typografie und Sprache in einem sehr
    gespannten Verh\xE4ltnis zueinander \u2013 gro\xDFe Wortzwischenr\xE4ume sind
    keine Seltenheit. Mit einem sehr kleinen Schriftgrad, durch den mehr Zeichen in
    eine Zeile passen, ist man die Probleme los. Aber das ist meistens keine gangbare
    L\xF6sung, weil die Leser damit nicht so gl\xFCcklich sind. Mit guter Software
    kann man Text einbringen und austreiben: die Buchstaben ein bisschen <strong>breiter</strong>
    oder gr\xF6\xDFer, ein wenig mehr Laufweite \u2013 oder umgekehrt kleinere und
    <strong>schm\xE4lere</strong> Buchstaben, ein bisschen unterschnitten. <strong>Wenn
    der Zeilenausgleich sich aus drei Faktoren zusammensetzt und nicht nur aus einem</strong>
    (zum Beispiel auschlie\xDFlich Spationieren), <strong>merkt der Leser in der Regel
    nichts davon.</strong>\"\r\n\r\nAs far as this was not mistranslated, <strong>breiter/schm\xE4ler
    (broader/narrower)</strong> means glyph scaling. If anybody has the English or
    the original edition, please post that paragraph in English or Dutch.\r\n\r\nAnd
    although I agree with hrant, that reading is an unconscious process, there is
    one thing, about which I meanwhile stumble: If the difference between the scaled
    text and the normal text is not visible, although you <em>search</em> for differences
    (an conscious process, and I would accept, if the test persons only can say, with
    which sample they <em>feel</em> better, but in a blind test [a funny expression
    in this context]), I doubt, that it can be recognized with the subconsciousness.
    Again, I am talking about a direct comparison. And I think, that it had to be
    examined in a scientific way. Most of the criticism of glyph scaling, that I found
    here, was pure belief.\r\n\r\n(In this context it also is interesting, what Unger
    writes about the way, in which letters are recognized \u2013 with the help of
    specific characteristics. This means, that the brain does not compare the letter,
    that a person sees, with all images of letters, that are stored in the brain.
    The way, in which the brain filters the letter, is interlaced.)"
  created: '2009-12-14 18:12:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If the difference between the scaled text and the normal\r\n> text is not
    visible .... I doubt, that it can be recognized\r\n> with the subconsciousness.\r\n\r\n1)
    There is much evidence of people noticing things only\r\nsubconsciously; sometimes
    they later consciously realize\r\nwhat they saw.\r\n\r\n2) We can never know what
    the subconscious knows/sees.  :-)\r\nWe can only infer it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 18:18:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It has been noted here and elsewhere before that Gerard Unger has taken a
    particularly liberal stance wrt glyph scaling, specifically also concerning his
    own fonts, some of which have been designed with \xABscalability\xBB in mind.
    So he believes people don't notice; others believe they do. How are you going
    to know? :)"
  created: '2009-12-14 18:34:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "@Arno: The English reads \"Clever software allows us to adapt the text with
    greater subtlety, making the letters marginally wider, injecting a little more
    space between the letters and making them very slightly larger\u2014or, conversely,
    having slightly smaller and narrower letters with fractionally less space between
    them. Where adjustments have been made to three parameters rather than only one,
    e.g. letterspacing, readers are unlikely to notice anything.\" pp187-88. "
  created: '2009-12-14 19:38:18'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\nI agree with both of your points. But obviously the brain
    can recognize letters, set in different typefaces. Why? Because there is no fixed
    image of the letters stored in the brain, but the specific characteristics of
    the letters.\r\n\r\nI assume, that there are two requirements for the non-attention
    of scaled glyphs:\r\n\r\n1. The difference between the scaled and the normal glyphs
    must not be so big, that it gets through the consciousness. This kind of difference
    would be a change of things, that are not characteristic for the specific shape
    of the letter (of the used typeface), the color for example and also the visible
    change, that is caused by glyph scaling. It is hard to explain, what I mean. There
    is unconscious reading on the one side and conscious viewing on the other side.\r\n\r\n2.
    The scaling must not change the specific characteristics of the letters: If a
    p is horizontally scaled too much, the descender would become unvisible. (In this
    context it is interesting, that the bottom serif would partly preserve the descender
    and therefore one of the specific characteristics of the letter p.)\r\n\r\nThere
    is a nice anecdote in <em>While you are reading</em>: A designer creates an unusual
    ligature and asks different persons, if they can see, what it means. The answers
    go in this direction: It is \"correct answer\", but I have doubts, that it can
    be easily recognized. In other words, all of them have recognized it, but they
    have doubts (about their own abilities or the abilities of other readers). Those
    things happen, if you don\u2019t make blind tests. (I hope, that I have not misinterpreted
    the anecdote now, but I am too lazy for searching for it at the moment.)\r\n\r\nEdited:\r\n\r\nI
    assume, that in times of individuality \u2013 and typeface designers know about
    their individuality very well in my opinion \u2013 people have a tendency not
    to use themselves as yardstick. Sometimes they stumble over their own intellect.
    I am trying to give an example: \"If I were not me, then I would be totally different.\"
    But aren\u2019t there more similarities than differences between human individuals?
    I mean, if the expert, the typeface designer, would be unable to recognize the
    difference between the scaled and the normal glyph, what does make him so sure,
    that the non expert is able to recognize the difference? May it be, that the knowledge
    about the human psychology plays a trick on us here?\r\n\r\nEdited:\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the English version, Craig!"
  created: '2009-12-14 19:49:31'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: .
  created: '2009-12-30 11:36:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>BTW, Gutenberg didn\u2019t do that because he had high ideals. He was
    simply imitating the scribes* (as Don says). He had to come as close as possible
    to appease the critics of printing.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is also why ragged right
    is seldom used, except in publications with an avant-garde look, or where justification
    would require retyping the text, because of the ancient or inexpensive equipment
    used. The scribes Gutenberg imitated justified their pages on both sides, and
    if that was even good enough for Aldus Manutilus, it ought to be good enough for
    everyone else!\r\n\r\nEventually, with digital typography, someone is going to
    think of designing a new font format, to succeed TrueType and Type 1, wherein
    some portions of the letter can be defined as flexible... so that, for example,
    the letter H might be scaled horizontally by lengthening or shortening the bar
    in the middle without changing the width of the vertical strokes.\r\n\r\nAnd word
    processors might be more advanced, so that one could specify not just limits,
    but weightings, and even curves... so that one could say that optical scaling
    below 0.5% has a low cost, but above that a high cost, and similarly with letterspacing
    - so that instead of one taking place only where the limit for the other is reached,
    both would be done gradually in the ratio specified by the text composer. Predefined
    glyph reshaping would come before optical scaling."
  created: '2009-12-30 13:19:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>Variables such as measure (column width), leading, typeface, tracking,
    and word length all come into play.</em>\r\n\r\nAll true.\r\n\r\nI have absolutely
    no experience with H&J in print but I do have more experience than most with doing
    it in HTML with CSS as the adjustment tool.\r\n\r\nOne thing I find is that different
    fonts - at a given size - seem to \"like\" certain column widths. Once having
    chosen a font, finding those \"sweet spots\" in width makes everything go much,
    much smoother.\r\nUnfortunately, the current practice in web design is to choose
    a pre-defined layout with pre-chosen widths and then finding an acceptable way
    to stuff the text inside those widths.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 21:12:16'
date: '2009-11-18 04:12:40'
title: Perfect Justification

---
