---
author:
  name: Diner
  picture: 110407
body: "It's totally out of character for me to sort of put myself out there in our
  community but I'm starting to form the germ of a concept that I'd really like some
  thoughts on . . .\r\n\r\nFirstly, listen to this interview: http://web20show.com/2009/11/episode-58-font-squirrel/\r\n\r\nSecond,
  think about this . . .\r\n\r\nWe create fonts to resell so that graphic designers
  can enhance their work with our fonts as part of their design toolkit and we grant
  permission for them to create lots of different works with our fonts by the license
  we offer them . . .\r\n\r\nWe sell these fonts for a fixed one time price which
  allows this use . . .\r\n\r\nSo, are be being greedy to force users to 'rent' fonts
  to display on web pages when we can simply offer a specific buy once downloadable
  package for them to use on their own site as Ethan is doing with Font Squirrel?\r\n\r\nThis
  seems to me as sort of a 'love or money' issue because folks are being opportunistic
  in their drive to sell rental services when in reality foundries can make the same
  money just plain selling fonts for web use . . .\r\n\r\nPerhaps the cost is directly
  related to the number of domains they wish to use the font on and there is no question
  some foundries may wish to only offer fonts on a rental rather own basis . . .\r\n\r\nI'm
  just putting it out there that nobody has had the guts to say selling fonts for
  print design use is no different than selling fonts for web display use so why couldn't
  people outright buy the right to do so?\r\n\r\nThanks for your ear,\r\nStuart :D"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "We license fonts for print use the way we do because there isn\u2019t a better
    option. Trying to license fonts on some sort of per-use basis makes business much
    more complicated, and then means less time drawing letters, which is not something
    that interests a lot of type designers. But with the web it suddenly becomes much
    easier to work with a service that charges per-use in some way and cuts users
    off if they don\u2019t pay. Catching infringers is infinitely easier because someone
    can just create a spider that looks for your fonts and automatically alerts a
    lawyer to send out a cease-and-desist-or-pay-me order.\r\n\r\nAnd font designers
    deserve the money. Users are buying this stuff because it allows them to make
    more money. Designers don\u2019t usually go out of their way to sell their services
    at the lowest possible cost just because the clients would like that. Likewise,
    we should be looking for every angle to make a buck. I\u2019m not in this because
    I want to be Saint James who helped spread literacy to the downtrodden with cheap
    type. I do it because I want my passion to pay for vacations in Provence."
  created: '2009-11-19 17:09:54'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "My opinion:  The winners will be the ones who are willing to put up with
    a little bit of risk, trust the end users and be flexible with their licensing
    terms. Not everyone is H+FJ and can demand their own terms without paying a price.
    Buyers are going to go where the getting is good and easy. (Typekit wins in this
    area.)\r\n\r\nI look forward to hearing what others have to say. Thanks for starting
    the thread Stuart."
  created: '2009-11-19 17:40:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think there's room for all models.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 17:53:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@diner\r\n\r\nGood question. I assume you're type designer. Where do you
    market your fonts now?\r\n\r\n@James Puckett\r\n<em>&#8220;And font designers
    deserve the money. Users are buying this stuff because it allows them to make
    more money. Designers don\u2019t usually go out of their way to sell their services
    at the lowest possible cost just because the clients would like that. Likewise,
    we should be looking for every angle to make a buck. I\u2019m not in this because
    I want to be Saint James who helped spread literacy to the downtrodden with cheap
    type. I do it because I want my passion to pay for vacations in Provence.&#8221;</em>\r\n\r\nUnfettered
    self-interest with no BS. I'm all for it. This is not to say I agree with you
    on what steps are truly in your best interest, but let's lay it on the line, by
    all means.\r\n\r\n@aluminum\r\n\r\nIf I hear the word \"model\" one more time
    I'm going to scream. (Not your fault, we all succumb.)\r\nHow about you sell me
    your font under the terms of a license and I pay you for it. Is that enough of
    a model or do we need something more nuanced than that?"
  created: '2009-11-19 19:13:38'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Thanks for chiming in on this discussion Richard, I know you're following
    the webfonts thing very closely . . .\r\n\r\nYes I'm a type designer selling my
    works at my own site fontdiner.com and selling collaborative works under the foundries
    Sideshow, Filmotype and Tart Workshop at fontbros.com, myfonts.com and veer.com\r\n\r\nWhile
    most discussions have been focused on the technology of webfonts, very few have
    been focused on the customer . . .\r\n\r\nUltimately a license must be purchased
    as with desktop use or seat licenses and since there isn't an end user per se
    to license the works to, the only recipient of a webfont license IMHO could possibly
    be the owner of the website, even if it's spec'd out by a designer, the person
    who owns the URL ultimately is the buyer and beneficiary of this type of license.
    In my mind, given that, the license should be URL specific . . .\r\n\r\nTaking
    that further, getting back to the technology piece, yes, a font could be rented
    (Typekit) and yes, a font (all webfont assets) could be purchased or given away
    (Font Squirrel) for a one time fee . . .\r\n\r\nI personally agree with James
    that URL binding is an important piece of this puzzle because we don't want to
    DRM fonts, but we want to do what we can to assure they're being used in accordance
    with the license that is being sold for this use . . .\r\n\r\nAnd to Ethan's point,
    his preference is that the fonts are owned by the designer and they, like all
    current desktop users should be on the honesty system and can use them on any
    site under their control . . .\r\n\r\nThe designer is an agent of the client and
    even if they license fonts on the clients behalf to do design work, even for web
    work, ultimately I don't feel you can license a font to a designer who can use
    the font for other projects and implement the same @ font-face kit for each client's
    site they work on which is why I think URL binding means the font is purchased
    PER project and PER client as it's needed . . .\r\n\r\nBeyond that, I don't think
    there is really much more to it . . ."
  created: '2009-11-19 19:45:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "(I'm going to risk making Richard scream. Sorry, Richard. I can't think of
    a better word for it.)\r\n\r\nTo me, the \"rental\" model (e.g., Typekit), is
    a desirable alternative to the \"purchase\" model we've had up until now. Whether
    it's viable remains to be seen, but I'm hopeful.\r\n\r\nWhen I tell non-type people
    that I make fonts, they always say something like, \"So, does that mean you get
    paid whenever your font is used in an ad or a book or whatever?\" When I tell
    them it doesn't work that way, that I get paid the same royalty whether my font
    is used in an ad seen by millions of people or a birthday party invitation seen
    by a dozen, they are surprised. I think a lot of people who \"steal\" fonts do
    so because they want to use them for personal projects and don't think it's fair
    that should they have to pay the same price for fonts as professional users.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason the \"purchase\" model has been used is partly historical, going back to
    when fonts were only bought by typesetting shops. But it's also because there's
    been no practical way to measure how much a font is used. Can you imagine keeping
    track of your font usage and sending reports to foundries and paying licensing
    fees based on that? \r\n\r\nHowever, when you serve fonts on the web, you can
    put a meter on usage. This could (and should) lead to fairer pricing for font
    users. Plus, I think this is a model that is easier for users to understand because
    it's based on how much they use a font, not simply whether they have it on their
    computer or not. It puts font licenses on a sliding scale, instead of the current
    all or nothing situation. Musicians often make more from live performances than
    from CDs or MP3 sales. The \"rental\" model would, in effect, be like live performances
    for fonts.\r\n\r\nI don't think the \"rental\" model will replace the \"purchase\"
    model (it doesn't work at all for desktop fonts), but I think that, like markets
    for other goods and services, there is room for both. Not everyone chooses to
    buy movies on DVD. Most people are happy to rent. The \"rental\" model simply
    hasn't been an option for fonts."
  created: '2009-11-19 19:54:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "And not to sidetrack this discussion, but I think that this is another part
    of some other discussions that are going on about rights-managed type sales. I\u2019ve
    been advocating rights managed type since I realized how hard it can be for design
    students to afford to buy contemporary type for their projects. In the last six
    months web font services have eliminated that problem for at one area of design.
    The same can be said for freelancers, small design firms, and their small business
    clients who want great type but are better off amortizing type costs across subscription
    fees. In the next year PLINC will be able to do something similar for display
    type used on physical mediums. \r\n\r\nThe benefits of this seem pretty huge to
    me. Small design businesses are going to have access to oodles of fonts other
    than what they get with their copy of Type Odyssey. As font designers we get ripped
    off less and make more money by spreading lots of small transactions across people
    who would otherwise have just used another classic face on projects with tight
    budgets. I think that will translate to more cool new ideas because we don\u2019t
    have to worry so much about people not buying really risky fonts that push the
    boundaries of form and technology but have to cost an arm and a leg with the existing,
    mostly royalty-free licenses."
  created: '2009-11-19 20:26:06'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: Tracking this thread (and remembering to read it later).
  created: '2009-11-19 21:21:42'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: I appreciate the comments and feedback so far but for folks who've been hyper-active
    on other webfont threads, I'd like to see their thoughts on this one. . . I'm
    looking your way David Berlow, John Hudson and Si Daniels . . .
  created: '2009-11-19 21:27:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@richard:\r\n\r\n\"How about you sell me your font under the terms of a license
    and I pay you for it. Is that enough of a model.\"\r\n\r\nBetween you and me,
    sure. But you and I are not the entirety of the market. "
  created: '2009-11-19 23:56:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@mark simonson\r\nms>Can you imagine keeping track of your font usage and
    sending reports to foundries\r\nms>and paying licensing fees based on that?\r\n\r\nSome
    software works that way. Fees are based on user stats reported by the licensee.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the rental \"model\" [I screamed, the police came, I'm sedated now.]:\r\nms>Plus,
    I think this is a model that is easier for users to understand because it\u2019s\r\nms>based
    on how much they use a font, not simply whether they have it on their computer\r\nms>or
    not.\r\n\r\nThings can only have a value if the customer sees the value. Tiny
    bottles of perfume sell for hundreds of dollars. Someone sees a value in it and
    are willing to pay.\r\nThe question is - does the customer see the font as adding
    to the bottom line or is it just a nicety and another font - perhaps free - will
    do just as well. To me, how much I use a font means nothing. But that's me. Plus,
    extra visitors does not necessarily translate into commercial success. Just more
    visitors. Figuring out how to make money on the net is hard enough as it is without
    allowing yet another entity to get at my checkbook. Fonts are not just out there
    competing with other fonts, they are out there competing with other things that
    sites must have.\r\nSo there's the inevitable comparisons - my Apache web server
    software is a hell of a lot more complicated than a font, and it's free. Wordpress,
    free. PHP, free. And I can always stick with system fonts and continue to spruce
    up my pages with text as images as I've always done. I don't know who would see
    the value in renting a font on a sliding scale. I just don't know. But it's a
    big world. I suppose Typekit, if they share the info, will help the type industry
    find this out.\r\n\r\nI'm not even going to try to predict.\r\n\r\n@diner\r\nI
    sent you a message on your contact form.\r\n\r\n@James Puckett\r\n\r\nWhat do
    you mean by rights-managed type sales?"
  created: '2009-11-20 00:52:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What do you mean by rights-managed type sales?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the
    world of stock images there are two licensing models. Royalty-free stock means
    that once you\u2019ve paid for the stock photos you can use them for just about
    anything short of pornography, in any quantity, without paying more. Rights-managed
    images are priced based on nature of use, quantity of reproduction, and how many
    years you plan to keep reproducing an image. If you just want to use a rights-managed
    photo on ten coffee cups you pay relatively little. For an annual report with
    a print run of 25,000 you pay more. And for a book cover with an initial print
    run of 250,000 that might be reprinted five times you pay through the nose. \r\n\r\nTo
    me a rights-managed approach makes much more sense for type designers and users."
  created: '2009-11-20 01:46:59'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Getting back to Mark and James comments, the thought is just because you
    CAN rent a font in the webosphere doesn't mean you should . . .\r\n\r\nI'm trying
    to reverse the case and say if we as font designers make a majority of our income
    via seat licenses at $20-$30 a font, wouldn't we make the same or more sales if
    we sold webfonts for $20-$30 per font per site?\r\n\r\nAnother thought is that
    perhaps at checkout of a one time purchase when they enter the domain name, it
    scrapes an Alexa.com history of the domain and returns a traffic volume statistic
    that informs the price of the purchase or says we'll be in touch with a price
    via e-mail . . .\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm not trying to advocate for fixed price webfont
    purchase so much as I am to say that it's an option worth exploring and nobody
    has really considered it when in fact offering webfonts at a fixed price is likely
    for many foundries to create an new sales channel for older works . . ."
  created: '2009-11-20 02:45:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026wouldn\u2019t we make the same or more sales if we sold webfonts
    for $20-$30 per font per site?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat assumes users will be willing
    to pay roughly the same price that they would for a per-seat license with almost
    no restrictions on creating static content. I doubt that they will. I think that
    this is probably because designers, and even moreso their clients, have a really
    hard time wrapping their head around the difference between a font licensed for
    static content creating and a font licensed for dynamic content rasterization
    on multiple computers. They don\u2019t even like buying more than one license
    for the entire business, even if they have 10,000 employees. So getting them to
    pay $30 per font for one web site that uses six fonts and will get completely
    redesigned in two years doesn\u2019t seem likely to me. \r\n\r\nTo me licensing
    each font for $5 or $10 a year, per-font, per-site seems like a better option.
    Or to do what Typotheque does; charging more for no limit on the number of sites/server
    a font can be used on but requiring clients to own their own licenses and charging
    for excessive bandwidth consumption."
  created: '2009-11-20 03:34:01'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Think of the way a lot of site hosting is done. \r\n\r\nYou can install a
    blog manager on your web server (which you're most likely renting) and deal with
    all the configuration and other stuff yourself (I do this with my own blog), or
    you can go with a hosted service like Blogger and let the service worry about
    that stuff. It's not like one is inherently better than the other, it just depends
    on what works best for your needs and how much you're willing or able to deal
    with the technical details. \r\n\r\nI think we'll see the same sort of thing with
    web fonts. \r\n\r\nAnother thing to think about: Are you prepared to do technical
    support for users who can't figure out how to get your fonts working on their
    websites in different browsers?"
  created: '2009-11-20 03:36:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@diner\r\n\r\nYou remind me of Nick Nolte's character in the movie Lorenzo's
    Oil. He keeps saying, \"I'm just a simple man asking simple questions.\" And through
    asking his series of \"simple\" questions he saves his son's life by finding an
    effective treatment for a debilitating and ultimately fatal disease. A disease
    that, beyond a diagnosis, has the top medical people completely stumped.\r\nIt's
    a good model to follow. (Argh! I said it again!)\r\nI'm actually a little stunned.
    What you're suggesting is an approach that the retail font folks have treated
    like the plague.\r\n\r\nBut why don't you try it and see? If the fonts on diner
    are all under your control you could do a split run and see what happens. Start
    a new site that, on the same site, offers a choice between a web friendly presentation
    and the typical print oriented presentation.\r\n\r\nExcuse me for waxing philosophical
    but...\r\nFor awhile, right out of college, I sold a line of big ticket, luxury
    items. High-pressure sales that demanded you to be a hard closer. During orientation
    by the regional sales manager he told us something that I never forgot: You can
    say anything to a prospective customer as long as you say it with a smile. It's
    true. Whatever happened to asking nicely? And saying \"Thanks for your order\"?\r\nAre
    these things considered old fashioned or unnecessary?\r\nRecently I bought a font
    from a major font design studio and did not even receive a thank you email. Nothing.
    That's never happened before. Quite the opposite actually.\r\nI bought a font
    from TypeCulture and not only got a thank you email but actually got a little
    something in the mail, too. I will very much remember where I was treated as a
    welcome customer and where I wasn't.\r\nWhenever I get the feeling that a company
    feels like they're doing me a favor by selling me something, if it's not too late,
    I walk. And then, as long as I can help it, I won't be back. The reverse is true,
    too.\r\n\r\nIf you were to organize your site the right way - font squirrel is
    certainly a good model but you'll probably want to make some changes to protect
    your fonts from casual download. And then create a friendly atmosphere and ask
    nicely and follow up appreciatively. Avoid an attitude of entitlement, apply some
    commonsense salesmanship, and I think you'll sell plenty.\r\nWhat have you got
    to lose?\r\n\r\nRegards, rich\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 05:03:14'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Thanks for your thoughts Rich,\r\n\r\nI guess I'm waiting for more type designers
    to chime in as well and state their position on the premise . . .\r\n\r\nI'm a
    little surprised the most eagerly adopted method to retail webfonts is rental
    only . . . I think it's only a matter of time before web designers and site owners
    take a pass on that . . . It doesn't seem sustainable to me . . .\r\n\r\nFurther,
    I think it's a double-standard to present essentially the same offering that's
    being sold for a one time fee for a recurrent one when the benefit is no different
    . . .\r\n\r\nBTW, the emperor is naked . . . There I said it . . .\r\n\r\nStuart
    :D"
  created: '2009-11-20 05:18:42'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: We don't yet have an interoperable, protected web font format, so I can't
    blame any foundry for not selling web font licenses outright. There's nothing
    good to protect their fonts. The best thing font rental has going for it right
    now is extra protection. Remember, even with mild protection like WOFF, fonts
    are still sitting on a server for all to see. That's quite different from licensing
    for print, where fonts stay in a closed environment (sorta maybe).
  created: '2009-11-20 07:18:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hi Stuart!\r\n\r\nI am very interested in all models because neither type
    use, nor type users fall into a single web font box. Unfortunately, if I spend
    a lot of time on free fonts discussions, I'll be raising my prices. Nevertheless,
    I think this much is worth every penny. \r\n\r\nOne primary concern of mine at
    the beginning of mass market DTP was to ensure that the bottom of the price market
    was well covered by free and very high quality fonts in the form of OS and application
    bundles. I think this was accomplished with the help of OS and app developers,
    and that same effort leaped to web fonts where some of the same bundled defaults
    have served the web for the last 15 years. \r\n\r\nOne of my primary concerns
    <em>now</em>, at 'the beginning' of web fonts, is to establish the position of
    the bottom of the price market. So, I'd like to introduce you to the <a href=\"http://www.eeulaa.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=49:recommendations-data-fields&catid=27:personalization&Itemid=59\">EPAR</a>,
    where the field is being leveled for all font developers by an openly published
    and developable table that will make it possible for non-commercial font folk
    to have an effective database of font information without developing the kinds
    of proprietary databases most commercial font developers have. \r\n\r\nI hope
    the \"free font\" and \"f**k the foundries\" activists take this new table very
    seriously, get involved in the final definition of this table, and then take full
    advantage of this table by working diligently to turn those heaps of unknown typographic
    quality into a much more useful heap, perhaps... putting FontSquirrel out of business,
    but I hope not. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 13:39:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I think it\u2019s only a matter of time before web designers and site
    owners take a pass on that\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI disagree. It\u2019s not like
    font designers are the music or movie industries trying to get teenagers to pay
    for one license to subscribe to some music, another license to get the same music
    as a ringtone, another for their music games, etc. Fonts are serious tools for
    serious businesses. The cost of url-bound font license should be paid by the client
    just as the cost of server hosting, CMS systems, etc. For businesses shifting
    their ad budgets from print to digital the cost of font rentals is probably going
    to be irrelevant to executives who are patting themselves on the back for all
    the paper they aren\u2019t buying anymore. And for a small business it\u2019s
    probably an easier sell than buying an expensive new type family or two.\r\n\r\n<cite>Further,
    I think it\u2019s a double-standard\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nSo what? Like JFK said,
    life is not fair. Business is full of double standards. This is nothing compared
    to some of the corruption and kickbacks that go on in printing and ad buying.
    As long as there\u2019s no dishonesty involved I don\u2019t think it will be a
    problem."
  created: '2009-11-20 15:05:49'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"We don\u2019t yet have an interoperable, protected web font format, so
    I can\u2019t blame any foundry for not selling web font licenses outright.\"\r\n\r\na)
    that'll never happen and\r\n\r\nb) neither does a lot of media...music, photography,
    etc...however they've managed to adopt a variety of licensing models as well...including
    rights managed as James mentiones.\r\n\r\n\"The best thing font rental has going
    for it right now is extra protection.\"\r\n\r\nOr, rather, the 'belief' that it's
    extra protection. ;o)\r\n\r\nAlternative viewpoint: What font rental has going
    for itself right now is ease of use for the customer. They are paying for convenience. "
  created: '2009-11-20 15:39:35'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Given all these perspectives, do foundries need a font rental company? I
    presume if a font designer has a shopping cart set up at their site to retail
    products, why wouldn't they offer their own rental service?\r\n\r\n@ Mark, if
    it's as easy as Typotheque is making it, would customer service really be an issue
    if all a customer is getting is two lines of CSS and a step-by-step how to?\r\n\r\n@
    David, you're likely one of few who has an informed perspective on the whole cycle
    from the beginning of mass market font offerings and you make some good points
    . . . I was using Font Squirrel as an example of a one time offering but I agree
    that we'd be waxing philosophical if we were talking about free webfonts . . .
    I'm more interested in how this could translate to commercially licensed for pay
    fonts . . ."
  created: '2009-11-20 16:12:56'
- author:
    name: peter bilak
    picture: 109927
  body: "Diner: <cite>There is a thread I started at Typophile and I would be interested
    to know what your experience has been so far offering webfonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for inviting me here, I am not spending as much time on Typophile as I wished.\r\n\r\nTo
    answer Stuart's question - it is too early to evaluate our webfonts solution,
    we launched it just a month ago. We've had a very good feedback, but it will be
    interesting to see how the sales will be on a longer term (and not just the short
    term affected by the hype). From the webfonts sales that we had, the most interesting
    thing is that it was people who never bought fonts before. We offer a possibility
    of webfonts also for a clients who licensed desktop fonts earlier, but that was
    little used so far.\r\n\r\nWe've worked on the webfonts solution since March,
    so had plenty of time to think about the licensing terms. We decided to go with
    a model, that I as a customer would feel most comfortable - that is as close to
    possible to one time costs. There is a one time licence fee, but because bandwidth
    costs money, we had to introduce a monthly limit (500MB per used font, per month,
    for free). So if you buy a package of 6 fonts, you get 3GB for free, which is
    a bandwidth of a serious site. Another possibility that we considered, was to
    give fonts for free, but user paying for bandwidth from the first hit. We decided
    against it, because it was a lot more unpredictable.\r\n\r\nI think there is plenty
    of room for other alternatives, so I am very curious to see other developments.\r\n\r\nPeter\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com"
  created: '2009-11-20 19:52:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Or, rather, the \u2019belief\u2019 that it\u2019s extra protection.
    ;o)</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, it seems obvious to me that font subscriptions (e.g.
    Typekit) are better protection than WOFF. Typekit obfuscates font data in a number
    of ways, and although their techniques are well-understood and reversible (at
    least in theory), it looks like a greater deterrence than WOFF's wrapper.\r\n\r\nDuring
    the recent W3C web fonts meeting in Santa Clara, I was interested (but not surprised)
    to hear of impending WOFF support outside the browser, prompting me to wonder
    out loud if OS support was inevitable. One response was that Linux system support
    would happen. If/when OS support emerges, then we are that much closer to WOFF
    being the equivalent of any other desktop font -- and avoiding that is one of
    the main reasons for the web font format debate in the first place."
  created: '2009-11-20 21:29:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Given all these perspectives, do foundries need a font rental company?\"\r\n\r\nProbably
    not. But it's also a convenience for the foundry. Let someone else deal with hosting
    fees and server maintenance and the like. \r\n\r\n\"Typekit obfuscates font data
    in a number of ways, and although their techniques are well-understood and reversible
    (at least in theory), it looks like a greater deterrence than WOFF\u2019s wrapper.\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    pretty simple obfuscation and has already been 'cracked' by the Russians. They
    always figure those things out. ;)\r\n\r\nDRM/obfuscation/etc of any sort perpetually
    fails or becomes obsolete. It's a short term remedy, at best. But if it gets the
    ball rolling, I suppose that's something..."
  created: '2009-11-20 21:35:35'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: The format is documented hence no need to 'crack' nor to be Russian.
  created: '2009-11-20 22:19:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '@ k.l. note the smiley. ;)'
  created: '2009-11-20 22:54:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> I\u2019m a little surprised the most eagerly adopted method to retail webfonts
    is rental only\r\n\r\nIt's still early, Stuart. It just happens that Typekit chose
    a rental model and they have the most traction right now. There <em>will</em>
    be other mechanisms and license models. The smart foundries won't settle for just
    one model. They'll cater to the broad range of customers with different needs.\r\n\r\nMark
    Simonson said perfectly everything else I was going to say about the topic. The
    market for fonts is expanding to users who would never have licensed fonts before.
    Foundries need to be open to new ways of reaching these new customers. It's an
    exciting time to be in the business."
  created: '2009-11-21 08:31:11'
- author:
    name: peter bilak
    picture: 109927
  body: "One more thing concerning the title of this thread. I am surprised no one
    has mentioned it before: there are very few end users who own typefaces. There
    are a few major companies such as Audi, BMW, Vodafone, etc, who can pay hundreds
    of thousands of dollars to 'buy' typefaces, the rest of the world licenses limited
    rights to use typefaces.\r\n\r\nPeter"
  created: '2009-11-21 10:25:24'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "> Why Rent When You Can Own?\r\n\r\nBecause it's equitable?\r\n\r\nFonts
    licensed for desktop use have \"the number of computers\" as a natural quantum.
    It's fair, easy, scalable, and has endured for twenty years because it serves
    everyone equally well. News organizations license fonts for thousands of computers,
    small businesses license them for a couple, individuals for just one. The market
    has been very effective in determining prices (despite Ethan's cryptic comment
    above.)\r\n\r\nWhat hosted solutions offer is this same promise for the web, where
    \"traffic\" is the standard unit of measure. Hosting offers a reliable way to
    meet different levels of use, far more effectively and reliably than any kind
    of single-price (or tiered-price) solution. Surely we want to make it possible
    for everyone to use our fonts, not only major corporations but small businesses,
    non-profits, and individuals as well?"
  created: '2009-11-21 14:28:57'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nDiner seems to have kicked off some sober analysis and I'm glad
    to see it.\r\nWhat you have now are untested hypotheses. Thoughts. (Although Paul's
    service is more than a thought.)\r\n\r\nHeck, anything will work as long as those
    pesky customers go along with it and are willing to pay. The only way to test
    a hypothese is to experiment. Try it and see.\r\n\r\nFor the first time ever,
    you will be dealing with the general public - everybody and their brother has
    a web page - not professionals.\r\nGazillions of them.\r\n\r\nWhere this will
    lead you, I can only guess.\r\nI only know what a <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/an-open-letter-to-retail-font-vendors/\">typical
    web developer</a> does and needs in order to do their work effectively and efficiently.\r\n\r\nCuriously,
    I've yet to read a business case for using linked fonts over the alternatives.
    I mean, why do it at all? This is far from obvious. Gotta think about that one.\r\n\r\nregards,
    rich\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 17:53:41'
- author:
    name: jeffveen
    picture: 117398
  body: "I'm a little late to the discussion -- it's been a busy couple weeks for
    us. And I'm not sure there is a whole lot more I could add, especially considering
    Mark Simonson's excellent note about the rental business. Mark was one of the
    first designers we worked with at Typekit, and I always appreciate his openness
    and clarity.\r\n\r\nI guess my ultimate reaction is this: It's early. Very early.
    Browsers supporting font linking have only been in circulation for a matter of
    months. The most successful brands on the web have been around only a handful
    of years. Even the most seasoned web designer has a bit more than a decade of
    professional experience. How will this all come together? How will individual
    web site owners and giant corporations make use of webfonts? I can't begin to
    guess.\r\n\r\nOne of the reasons we started working on the Typekit idea was to
    try a bunch of stuff and look for answers. Some of our customers like the idea
    of subscribing to a library of fonts and trying lots of alternatives in their
    designs. Other customers have commissioned fonts and are eager to finally use
    them online. And there's a whole group of our customers aren't even interested
    in choosing fonts -- they just want cooler looking blog templates.\r\n\r\nWhich
    one of these methods will win? Probably no single one, or perhaps something we
    haven't even thought of yet. But it seems like now is the time to experiment and
    iterate, so that's what we're trying to do."
  created: '2009-11-21 20:20:03'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I'm pleased the scope of the discussion continues to open up . . .\r\n\r\n@
    Jonathan, you make a logical case for finding currency in the 'value' of the the
    font given its 'home' . . .\r\n\r\n @ Jeff, can you give us a sense of what's
    working so far? How do people feel about renting? Has anybody asked for a one
    time payment to use a particular font in perpetuity?\r\n\r\nI continue to be intrigued
    how the consensus of the participants of this thread mostly fall in the camp of
    rental but agree the argument has merit . . . On some level I've always imagined
    designers working on a project, deciding they need to enhance their work with
    a font, shop for one, buy it, apply it . . .\r\n\r\nThat said, we're currently
    selling fonts to designers . . . However with a rental model, we're now selling
    fonts to site owners VIA designers so it creates a confusing licensing issue which
    may create confusion about ownership . . .\r\n\r\nIt's already difficult to have
    the discussion with a freelancer who's working for a client about who owns and
    should buy the font let alone renting one to them . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2009-11-21 21:14:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> the consensus of the participants of this thread mostly fall in the camp
    of rental\r\n\r\nBut you don't have to settle for just one camp. I think those
    defending rental are simply saying that a subscription model is <em>one</em> viable
    option that works for <em>some</em> users, particularly new users on the web."
  created: '2009-11-22 02:20:46'
- author:
    name: ofisia
    picture: 128351
  body: (I'm tracking this thread)
  created: '2009-11-22 11:44:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Why rent when you can buy? it's not a question for users, but for foundries.\r\n\r\nIn
    the short term, because foundries don't find enough inherent protection to make
    them happy in the existing formats/setups for people hosting fonts themselves.
    Certainly not for raw desktop fonts....\r\n\r\nBut financially, if it's a rental,
    it's easier to make the price scale with the volume of the site. Foundries can
    potentially price to be attractive to the very low end and still charge enough
    at the high end.\r\n\r\nAt least, that's what I like about rental from the foundry
    side.\r\n\r\nFrom the user side, it can be made affordable regardless of who you
    are.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-22 17:10:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Thomas Phinney\r\nTP>it\u2019s not a question for users, but for foundries.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry, Thomas, but this is upside-down thinking.\r\nStarting with the premise
    of - what are <em>we</em> willing to do? what's best for <em>us</em>? what makes
    <em>us</em> \"comfortable\"? - and then hoping customers will go along doesn't
    usually have a happy ending.\r\n\r\nDo I have to go digging through back-issues
    of the Harvard Business Review and the Wall Street Journal to prove this case?
    I don't have to. All I have to do is wait until the results are in. (They may
    already be in, actually.)\r\n\r\nTry starting with - \"What do web users seem
    to want? What's their reality? How do they see things? What's their normal expectations?
    What fits into their normal workflow?\"\r\nAnd then maybe you'll get somewhere.\r\n\r\nBTW
    - there is no rental model. Typekit, Typotheque, and Kernest don't rent in the
    common sense of the word. They are font-hosting and font-obfuscation services.
    Calling it a rental clouds the specifics. The \"service\" part of it and the \"obfuscation\"
    part of it might, in the long term, prove more significant and useful than the
    fonts themselves.\r\n\r\nAlso, what constitutes the \"volume\" of the site?\r\nAnd
    why should site owners see a connection between what it costs them to use a font
    and the \"volume\" of the site?\r\nI certainly don't. I see a connection between
    the bandwidth expended by the services company on my behalf but that's about all.\r\nAre
    you aware of any potential customers who see it differently?\r\n\r\n@all\r\nTo
    anyone's knowledge, has any formal market research been done about any of this?\r\n\r\nRespectfully,
    Rich\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 23:15:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>And why should site owners see a connection between what it costs them
    to use a font and the \u201Cvolume\u201D of the site?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause in
    a well-run business there should be a correlation between site volume and income.
    If a business is running a web site to make more money, using my fonts, why shouldn\u2019t
    I get more money for those fonts? After all, if using the fonts of one\u2019s
    choice is not relevant to running a successful online business, why can\u2019t
    businesses just stick with the MS Core fonts? \r\n\r\nYou don\u2019t see a connection
    between business and font costs because you\u2019re a web development pundit.
    You need only worry about what is ideal for web developers. You don\u2019t have
    to find a way to monetize a type family that represents months or even years of
    work but might only be purchased a few dozen times depending on what way the winds
    of fashion blow. \r\n\r\n<cite>Are you aware of any potential customers who see
    it differently?</cite>\r\n\r\nHow about the tens of thousands of businesses that
    license photography and illustrations this way and have been doing so for several
    decades?"
  created: '2009-11-22 23:31:38'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Looking specifically at site traffic (aka volume), what are logical tiers?
    I'm most familiar with Alexa's ranking but I'm not sure how it's calculated .
    . . I'm very curious what is considered 'typical' volume?\r\n\r\nFor those in
    the know, what is the low, median, and high end of traffic volumes? Also, how
    would pricing slide accordingly? Compare that to the cost of 'cloud' hosting for
    the same bandwidth . . .\r\n\r\nEven if we are renting bandwidth to users for
    the webfonts with optimized compression, at what point is volume actually calculable?
    Last I looked, hosting bandwidth fees were dropping as fast as RAM prices . .
    . Are we upselling bandwidth then?\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2009-11-23 02:43:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>\"BTW - there is no rental model. Typekit, Typotheque, and Kernest
    don\u2019t rent in the common sense of the word. They are font-hosting and font-obfuscation
    services.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it's a service. What they're renting is access,
    not the font files themselves. But the key point is that it's an ongoing payment
    instead of a one-shot up front. I agree that the obfuscation etcetera is a big
    part of *why* a hosted service makes sense... from the foundries' perspective.
    The customer couldn't care less.\r\n\r\n<cite>TP>it\u2019s not a question for
    users, but for foundries.\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m sorry, Thomas, but this is upside-down
    thinking.\"<cite>\r\n\r\nWell, no. The reason it's a question for foundries is
    that today, users do not in fact have the option of buying for web font usage.
    They may very well want to, but foundries have generally been unwilling to go
    there (with the notable exception of Ascender).\r\n\r\n<cite>Also, what constitutes
    the \u201Cvolume\u201D of the site?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are many different ways
    one could measure it, and the folks renting or selling the font licenses can pick
    whichever suits them. TypeKit uses the bandwidth of font downloads.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"And
    why should site owners see a connection between what it costs them to use a font
    and the \u201Cvolume\u201D of the site?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy shouldn't they? If
    they're large they are paying for their bandwidth usage in other ways. Cloud computing
    services charge based on volume in various ways. And, what James said.  :)\r\n\r\nOf
    course the question of what will happen ultimately depends on *both* the buyer
    and the seller. I expect that we'll find that some users are willing to \"rent\"
    and that some are not. I expect that we will see both service and sales models
    that are successful. It's a big world out there, and I believe there's room for
    several vendors to make a go of it.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-23 02:50:55'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I think a big issue web designers have is: \"How do I sell my client on this
    extra font cost? I have no idea. Rather than have this conversation, I could use
    a free font or consult Aluminum's russian buddies.\" \r\n\r\nHow to remove this
    fear:\r\nWeb designers know how to sell hosting to their clients. Make fonts part
    of the hosting bill and the fear is gone. Seems like it would make sense to offer
    embedded fonts right from the control panel, and bundle the billing in the hosting
    package. How big would the audience be if a typekit/typotheque style solution
    was offered Fantastico style? As a web designer I'm used to a fee-for-traffic
    solution. I expect it in that context. My clients all expect to pay $xxx monthly
    for web hosting, and if we go over our bandwidth, we pay. Just like a cell phone.
    Just like Peter's font hosting model. A great partner in this endeavor would be
    the web hosts themselves. "
  created: '2009-11-24 18:58:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"How about the tens of thousands of businesses that license photography
    and illustrations this way and have been doing so for several decades?\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't license photos on per-views of my web site. Granted, a lot of us used to
    pay for photography and illustration on a per-printed-piece model in the past.
    Some of us still do, though that pricing model seems to be taking up a smaller
    and smaller part of the market.\r\n\r\nSo comparing fonts to commercial art works
    in that sense.\r\n\r\nWe could also compare fonts to software. Same types of analogies
    could be made. SOME software is licenses on a per-user basis. Some software is
    licensed outright regardless of the size of operation or web site you might be
    running on it. \r\n\r\nAgain, there's rooms for all models.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-24 19:24:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"For those in the know, what is the low, median, and high end of traffic
    volumes? Also, how would pricing slide accordingly? Compare that to the cost of
    \u2019cloud\u2019 hosting for the same bandwidth . . .\"\r\n\r\nThis came up in
    a presentation of Kernest this past weekend.\r\n\r\nThere are valid concerns with
    the outsourcing of hosting of files if you are a major bandwidth user. If your
    site is pulling enough traffic that it could bring down one of these services,
    that's not going to make you, nor the service very happy.\r\n\r\nHowever, a good
    counterpoint was brought up in that if you are running a site of that size, you
    already are likely outsourcing a lot of your file hosting...your jQuery is on
    Google, your images on are on CDN, your DBs are on a farm. Etc. So that perhaps
    isn't as critical of an issue as one may thing at first. Plus, if you're that
    big of a site, you would likely want to work directly with the foundry to license
    your own @font-face agreement to leverage the CDN you are already using."
  created: '2009-11-24 19:27:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@Randy\r\n\r\nI don't we web developers/designers have any fear of this.
    We've been doing just fine without @font-face up to this point. We'd like it.
    We're going to use it when it makes sense (technically and legally), but we're
    not losing sleep over it either.\r\n\r\nI agree with the hosting part, though
    I think it's important to separate web designers/developers from web hosting options.
    Sometimes it's the same, very often, it is not.\r\n\r\nBut the point about hosting
    being a service makes a lot of sense for both the consumer (web designer) and
    provider (font foundry) in a lot of situations. That's pretty much what Typekit
    and Kernest and the like are. They are font hosting services. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-24 19:31:26'
date: '2009-11-19 16:06:48'
title: Why Rent When You Can Own? - Webfonts That Is . . .

---
