---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "For those following issues related to rendering type in Windows browsers...\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2009/11/18/an-early-look-at-ie9-for-developers.aspx
  \r\n\r\nBased on comments at ATypI, Firefox seems to be going down the DirectWrite
  path too. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Using the graphics card to render type, rather than the CPU: is that how
    Apple''s Quartz rendering works?'
  created: '2009-11-19 15:43:57'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: 'In the text sample "96 point Gabriola on a Lenovo X61 ThinkPad at 100% Zoom:
    Direct2D (without jaggies):" on the page, sub-pixel rendering is no longer used.
    Is that the way it''s is going to be?'
  created: '2009-11-19 16:29:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">on the page, sub-pixel rendering is no longer used\r\n\r\nTo me that screen
    grab seems to be primarily demonstrating the y-direction antialiasing rather than
    sub-pixel positioning. However this suggests that IE will be exploiting DWrite's
    sub-pixel positioning.\r\n\r\n\"In addition to better performance, this technology
    shift also increases font quality and readability with <STRONG>sub-pixel positioning</STRONG>:\""
  created: '2009-11-19 16:40:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Claus, I confused sub-pixel \"positioning\" with \"rendering\" in your question.
    So ignore my answer above. I know that DWrite has various modes - not sure if
    the screen grab represents the future IE rendering. I\u2019ll see if I can find
    out.  "
  created: '2009-11-19 17:42:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Haven't had a chance to follow the links yet but, Si, do you know if this
    kind of rendering is something that's going to be triggered by the developer via
    CSS or some other mechanism or is it just going to happen?\r\nOr is it going to
    be a part of the user-settings either in the OS or IE?\r\nAnd will it be applied
    to all text at any size or will there be breakpoints?\r\n\r\nLastly, Hallelujah.
    About time. Flash or VML-like but without the hassles. No accessibility issues.
    Wonderful.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-19 18:05:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll just note that DirectWrite does pretty much just as nice a job with
    OpenType CFF as it does with TrueType outlines, even applying ClearType. It uses
    what is essentially the OpenType CFF rendering Adobe and Microsoft developed for
    WPF (technically something immediately descended from it).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-19 21:41:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'm very glad to hear this.
  created: '2009-11-19 22:09:08'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "I can confirm that build demonstrated at PDC is doing sub-pixel layout and
    positioning. If you look at the video, you can see smooth scaling and tracking
    which would not be possible otherwise.\r\n\r\nIE8 used high-resolution layout,
    but it did not affect text where glyphs always had integral pixel width. Using
    Dwrite for rendering only in this case would remove jagginess, but would not improve
    spacing. It requires real sub-pixel text layout to make it work.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    ways to switch rendering modes, this is not determined yet. There are different
    factors to take into account: technology available on client machine, user preferences,
    backward compatibility of page layout. At least my opinion is that rendering mode
    should not be exposed to web designer to control.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 04:00:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sergeym\r\n<em>\"At least my opinion is that rendering mode should not be
    exposed to web designer to control.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSergey, I'm fearful of just
    letting the OS make all the decisions. It hasn't worked out all that perfectly
    with ClearType. \r\nHow does the Dwrite rendering look at smaller text sizes?\r\nI
    know it's early on, I hope the team will be keeping interested parties in the
    loop with more detailed examples.\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-11-20 07:07:33'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "It is not the OS making all decisions. Users already tuned ClearType to their
    eyes, DWrite applied its rasterization algorithms, IE chooses to use different
    layout parameters depending on font/size/scenario, font designer expressed his
    intent in hinting. \r\n\r\nWhat kind of control page author do you think should
    have? Will this control available for every page be better than user settings
    applied to whole Web inside your browser?\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, I can't give you
    build of IE using DWrite to play with right now. FireFox is experimenting with
    DWrite to, although I did not see any, even experimental, build available publicly.
    You can check out few FireFox screenshots at http://blog.mozilla.com/nattokirai/2009/10/22/better-postscript-cff-font-rendering-with-directwrite/.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2009-11-20 08:27:10'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: If you look at the Firefox example http://blog.mozilla.com/nattokirai/files/2009/10/waterfallcomparison.png
    neither the Windows XP GDI nor the Windows 7 GDI Cleartype is using sub-pixel
    rendering. Is that normal?
  created: '2009-11-20 11:38:25'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Sergey: <em>What kind of control page author do you think should have?</em>
    (over rasterization methods)\r\n\r\nI think none. I really wouldn't want a web
    author to mess with my rasterization settings ;) For users who don't care about
    customizing their settings, sensible system defaults should be applied (as it
    is now).\r\n\r\nClaus: <em>neither the Windows XP GDI nor the Windows 7 GDI Cleartype
    is using sub-pixel rendering. Is that normal?</em>\r\n\r\nThey used an OT-CFF
    font for the comparison, insofar it is misleading to speak of \"ClearType there.
    (Because OT-CFF could not use ClearType at all prior to DirectWrite.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 11:56:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> really wouldn\u2019t want a web author to mess with my rasterization ...\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious as to what you consider \"your rasterization\" to be?\r\n\r\nAlso, \"sensible
    system defaults\" seems sensible, but it is how we got to a web where sizing,
    scaling and rendering of type are so diverse web design is constricted and type
    design is nearly impossible.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-20 17:03:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...note that DirectWrite does pretty much just as nice a job with OpenType
    CFF as it does with TrueType outlines, even applying ClearType. \"\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Thomas!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-20 17:10:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is very excellent news. Thanks, Si.\r\n\r\nThis morning I met with my
    clients in Leiden and among other things showed them comparisons of their new
    CFF fonts in a variety of rendering environments. They were unanimous that the
    WPF/DirectWrite rendering was by far the best, so I'm very happy to be able to
    report back to them now that IE -- and probably Windows Firefox -- will be taking
    this path.\r\n\r\nAnd, of course, DirectWrite provides full OpenType Layout capabilities."
  created: '2009-11-20 20:14:01'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>If you look at the Firefox example ... neither the Windows XP GDI nor
    the Windows 7 GDI Cleartype is using sub-pixel rendering. Is that normal?</cite>\r\n\r\nGDI
    is not capable doing sub-pixel in any Windows version. You need WPF or Avalon
    to render sub-pixel.\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019m curious as to what you consider \u201Cyour
    rasterization\u201D to be?\r\n\r\nAlso, \u201Csensible system defaults\u201D seems
    sensible, but it is how we got to a web where sizing, scaling and rendering of
    type are so diverse web design is constricted and type design is nearly impossible.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    we just need ability to embed rasterizer into web page. This way, web designer
    will be sure it is working as he intended it to.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-20 20:33:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Maybe we just need ability to embed rasterizer into web page. This way,
    web designer will be sure it is working as he intended it to.\r\n\r\nIf only things
    were this simple. There's screen resolution, gamma and orientation, viewing distance,
    ambient lighting etc., etc., things the browser and Web designer know little,
    if anything, about. \r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 03:23:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Maybe we just need ability to embed rasterizer into web page. \r\n\r\nA
    Sizer, Scaler and Rasterizer must be supplied for Windows users. \r\n\r\n>This
    way, web designer will be sure it is working as he intended it to.\r\n\r\nIt's
    much easier to make stuff up about fairy resolution, write fake sci-fi patents
    and study people's reactions to flash cards. \r\n\r\n>...things the browser and
    Web designer know little, if anything, about.\r\n\r\n...but should know. Maybe
    it'd be easier to bring the info to the font. WOW, a font media query.\r\n\r\nExcept
    for distance which can either be solved by the user moving the user, or by the
    user scaling the type. \r\nExcept, oh I forgot, no one wants the user to even
    do font sizing correctly-ish.\r\n\r\nWelcome to the \"if it ain't as robust as
    Verdana, make it so\" generation of type design.. ;) How long will it last? That's
    the new lottery. I'm nearly certain that it'll go away as soon as I finish making
    a dozen families of 5 pt designs. Place your bets!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-21 13:01:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...it\u2019ll go away as soon as I finish making a dozen families of 5
    pt designs.\"\r\n\r\nWould they be rendered useless with the next technology to
    follow? :-)\r\n\r\nMy guess is that something new needs to come along that reinterprets
    outlines for screen use on the fly but is not part of the typeface. The easy answer
    to envision is higher screen resolution but this comes at a high price. The person
    who invents a software interpreter that can mimic resolution enhancement and optical
    sizing will become a wealthy soul.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-21 18:09:01'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "sergeym wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>GDI is not capable doing sub-pixel in any Windows
    version. You need WPF or Avalon to render sub-pixel.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's not
    true at all. All versions of Windows from Windows XP on fully support subpixel
    rendering of TrueType fonts via native GDI.\r\n\r\nHere's the relevant MSDN documentation
    page for the GDI function <a href=\"http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd183499%28VS.85%29.aspx\">CreateFont</a>.
    Note the <cite>CLEARTYPE_QUALITY</cite> parameter, which was introduced with Windows
    XP.\r\n\r\nIf ClearType weren't supported by GDI, almost nothing on your screen
    would be able to use it."
  created: '2009-11-21 19:57:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The person who invents a software interpreter that can mimic resolution
    enhancement and optical sizing will become a wealthy soul.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    know about a software interpreter, but the human interpreter could increase font
    size and sit further away from his screen. :)"
  created: '2009-11-21 22:03:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Neither my monitor nor my house is big enough, John :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-21 23:29:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">GDI is not capable doing sub-pixel in any Windows version.\r\n \r\n>That\u2019s
    not true at all. All versions of Windows from Windows XP on fully support subpixel
    rendering of TrueType fonts via native GDI.\r\n\r\nI think Sergey is talking about
    sup-pixel \"positioning\", not sub-pixel \"rendering\". Although i don't know
    if sub-pixel positioning can't be done by GDI. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 05:26:58'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I wrote: <em> really wouldn\u2019t want a web author to mess with my rasterization
    ...</em>\r\n\r\nDavid wrote: <em>I\u2019m curious as to what you consider \u201Cyour
    rasterization\u201D to be?</em>\r\n\r\n\"My rasterization\" would be the one I
    chose, be it thoughtfully or by chance, through my choice of operating system,
    anti-aliasing settings and maybe more display tuning (e.g. ClearType tuner ...).\r\n\r\nI'm
    comfortable working both on Windows and Mac OS. The different text displays don't
    bother me, perhaps they are even helpful to remind me inside which system \"frame\"
    I am right now. I guess if somebody (e.g. a web author) could break this consistency,
    it would irritate me."
  created: '2009-11-22 12:44:07'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>It\u2019s much easier to make stuff up about fairy resolution, write
    fake sci-fi patents and study people\u2019s reactions to flash cards.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    question was very simple: what control <em>web developer</em> should have over
    rasterization parameters. And I said none, because I think web browser should
    be just transport mechanism, delivering font to OS rednering system.  Whatever
    information is needed to produce best type on screen should be inculded into font,
    system parameters and user settings. What this information should include is critical,
    but completely different, question, independent from whether you use local or
    embedded fonts.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think Sergey is talking about sup-pixel \u201Cpositioning\u201D,
    not sub-pixel \u201Crendering\u201D. Although i don\u2019t know if sub-pixel positioning
    can\u2019t be done by GDI. </cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I should have been more clear.
    I mean sub-pixel positioning of glyphs, which is not available in GDI.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-22 20:33:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sergey: <em>I think web browser should be just transport mechanism, delivering
    font to OS rendering system.</em>\r\n\r\nBut is that what is currently happening?
    IE8 rendering of CFF fonts is completely different from Firefox rendering of the
    same fonts, so it seems clear that different rendering systems are being used.
    And of course the OS itself may employ more than one rendering system. I don't
    mind the multiplicity so much as I mind the lack of documentation."
  created: '2009-11-22 21:07:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "First, someone alert the media: \"Berlow And Fink In Substantial Agreement\"\r\n(Or,
    at least, our concerns and suspicions are the same, I think.)\r\n\r\nSergey and
    Sii,\r\n\r\nYes, it's going to be very difficult to analyze this without an Alpha
    to play around with.\r\nTwo questions:\r\n\r\n1) When do you think an Alpha will
    be available. (If you can share that publicly, here.) Much salivating as you can
    see.\r\n\r\n2) What's the minimum hardware or will any Win 7 capable box be up
    to the task?\r\n\r\n@all\r\n\r\nMake sure to view the channel9 video - <a href=\"http://channel9.msdn.com/posts/Charles/IE-9-Surfing-on-the-GPU-with-D2D/\">link</a>
    listed on the <a href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2009/11/18/an-early-look-at-ie9-for-developers.aspx\">IE
    Blog</a> - for a screen demo and some chatter from the IE devs about this. Worth
    a look, absolutely.\r\n\r\nRegards, Rich"
  created: '2009-11-22 22:44:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "sergeym >what control [should the] web developer have over rasterization
    parameters. And I said none, \r\n\r\nI guess, this is what is at the heart of
    my request for the quest for a typographic media query in CSS. \r\n\r\nIf a web
    developer could: either have control via query over the OS's rasterization parameters
    and only in the browser set them to the web publisher's desires, or use a media
    query to deliver font software sensitive to the apparent preferences of the user,
    or some combination of each \u2014 some web design would flourish. \r\n\r\nThen
    \"all we'd have to deal with\" are the multitude of web developer's size and style
    habits for type, and the fact that the users defaults should never be confused
    with their true preferences.;)\r\n\r\nBut I grant that just saying \"No\", is
    easier on everyone but the user. \r\n\r\nJH>I don\u2019t mind the multiplicity
    so much as I mind the lack of documentation.\r\n\r\nAnd even if you have \"documentation\",
    well, see MS white paper on CT. We're perfectly free to do anything we want except
    the right thing. Give it time, you'll mind the multiplicity. Perhaps even enough
    to someday want variation technology on the client side. \r\n\r\nend part I"
  created: '2009-11-23 21:53:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It was too long. \r\n\r\n\r\nFrom Sii's link:\r\n>In addition to better performance,
    this technology shift also increases font quality and readability with sub-pixel
    positioning:\r\n\r\nSo, sub-pixel positioning used on text means the the image
    of the glyph changes from position to position among the text, for \"better spacing\".
    Adobe does this in text rendering and it works 'perfectly well\" for print preview
    on screens in zoomable apps. \r\n\r\nsergeym >I mean sub-pixel positioning of
    glyphs, which is not available in GDI.\r\n\r\nGood. The only sub-pixel position
    I'm interested in, for text type in these resolutions, is under the control of
    glyph subsitution. \r\n\r\nJens>The different text displays don\u2019t bother
    me, perhaps they are even helpful to remind me inside which system \u201Cframe\u201D
    I am right now.\r\n\r\nThanks for the complete answer. Your rasterization, which
    I'll call \"cross-platform/differential-required\"  in a very small minority I
    believe, who can I believe set their preferences to maintain said requirement.
    So, I believe, your requirement is quite well met today and for the long term
    future. . . But the counter irritated majority, I believe, is immense including
    those who don't think their lap should have to change size to be at the right
    distance from their type, depending on the OS frame.\r\n\r\nIn any case, it looks
    to me like DirectWrite continues the long running disunification of type handling
    on Windows? \r\n\r\nWe have one more issue to deal with, and one more query to
    make a quest for. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-23 21:54:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>In any case, it looks to me like DirectWrite continues the long running
    disunification of type handling on Windows?</cite>\r\n\r\nI would like to suggest
    that if Microsoft is going to continue using this confusing jumble of type handling
    methods it produce a book about designing and hinting for Windows rendering\u2014with
    designers and not programmers in mind\u2014and publish it through Microsoft press.
    There\u2019s not much point throwing millions of dollars at text rendering every
    year if only foundries with large budgets can afford to pay experts to figure
    out how to make fonts look good on your OS."
  created: '2009-11-23 22:19:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Two things there:\r\n\r\n@DaveB: DirectWrite is continuing to use WPF rendering.
    Microsoft can't just take GDI away, but they can encourage people to use something
    better, which is what they're doing. Of course, they could also improve GDI, which
    they seem to be less interested in, beyond turning (an earlier version of) ClearType
    on by default.\r\n\r\n@James: I think Microsoft believes that most fonts look
    better under DirectWrite than under GDI. For OpenType CFF, that's certainly true.
    I don't think anybody needs to pay experts to make fonts look good under DirectWrite...
    only if the foundry wants to really maximize the potential rendering quality.
    But that has always required expert help.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-25 00:53:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>.I think Microsoft believes that most fonts look better under DirectWrite
    than under GDI. For OpenType CFF, that\u2019s certainly true.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is a test of different Windows rendering environments that I made to show clients
    a few days ago. This is a CFF font with PS autohinting using the AFDKO script
    within FontLab (the final version will be manually hinted, because I'm not happy
    with all the autohinting results; see top of q for example). This is a typeface
    that was designed primarily for print use in book publishing, not optimised for
    screen reading.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rendering_6441.gif]"
  created: '2009-11-25 15:38:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "PS. The Safari rendering in that comparison is using the \u2018medium\u2019
    subpixel rendering setting that Apple recommend for LCD screens. It looks like
    crap, and the Safari rendering is better in \u2018light\u2019 mode or even in
    greyscale mode as recommended for CRT screens.\r\n\r\nOf course, user preference
    of Safari rendering mode is likely to be both display and gamma specific <em>and
    also typeface specific</em>. In other words, it is possible for a webpage to contain
    two fonts that each look better in different rendering settings."
  created: '2009-11-25 15:44:02'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: John -- Which do you consider to be the most "accurate" rendition of your
    design intent, in this case?
  created: '2009-11-25 17:45:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The WPF rendering is closest to the typeface design, in terms of both letter
    representation and spacing. PDF is second best.\r\n\r\n[One thing I note is that
    the WPF rendering doesn't look nearly as good when I look at it on a different
    screen from the one on which I made the screenshot. When I met with my clients
    last week, I took the same laptop on which I had made the screenshots, so they
    were able to judge the comparison properly.]"
  created: '2009-11-25 18:02:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Sergey, can you explain how IE8 is rendering CFF fonts? Obviously it isn't
    using the same Windows PS rasteriser as Firefox, but nor is it using the WPF renderer.
    It appears to be applying subpixel rendering (CT?) in the x-direction, but no
    y-direction antialiasing.
  created: '2009-11-25 18:04:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks John. \r\n\r\nThis is interesting though I wish they were unlabeled.
    \r\n\r\nAnd why do we care about CFF cross-platform/browser rendering?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-11-25 19:01:00'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What did you use to get the WPF/DirectWrite sample?\r\n\r\nI'm doing an article
    in which I want to show essentially all the above, plus a similar variety of TrueType
    rendering as well, for comparison. I imagine I'll start with a different typeface....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-27 21:43:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: For the WPF sample, I used a test tool from MS. You could also do this with
    XAML in e.g. <a href="http://www.kaxaml.com/">Kaxaml</a>.
  created: '2009-11-27 22:30:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Thanks, that's helpful.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-11-28 22:11:38'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n<em>\"In other words, it is possible for a webpage to contain
    two fonts that each look better in different rendering settings.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    cracked me up. So chaotic. And no cross-browser, cross-platform answer in sight.\r\n(Sounds
    like we should get some of them outside standards agitators agitatin' about this.
    What we have heah, is a failyuh to specificate.)\r\nBut that's way premature.
    What is/are going to be the digital equivalents of paper and ink?\r\nAh, well.
    Implementations first. Thanks for a peek at the test shots.\r\n\r\n@thomasphinney\r\n<em>if
    the foundry wants to really maximize the potential rendering quality. But that
    has always required expert help.</em>\r\nMust we be resigned to the \"expert help\"
    part. (I mean, there are ordinary experts, and then there are the \"where the
    frack do I find somebody, anybody who knows how to do this?\" kind of expert.)\r\nOr,
    in your opinion, can the tools be vastly improved with effort and the learning
    curve significantly lowered?\r\n\r\n@sergey and sii,\r\n\r\nBased on the video
    presentation on Channel 9, I'm led to believe that DirectWrite will respect the
    current behavior of fonts - such as line breaks, word spacing, etc...\r\nTrue?
    Not counting the inevitable edge cases - will it be essentially backwards compatible?
    Dare I say \"seamlessly\" so?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-11-30 03:05:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Egads, I see. \r\n\r\n http://www.w3.org/2009/11/05-webfonts-minutes.html\r\n\r\n>Fonts
    MIME type\r\n\r\nTT hints are information one does not know about but ones system
    does, and it's a possible attack vector.\r\n\r\nThere is no end to the entertainment
    of font standards wrestling. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 15:27:52'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Sergey, can you explain how IE8 is rendering CFF fonts? Obviously it
    isn\u2019t using the same Windows PS rasteriser as Firefox, but nor is it using
    the WPF renderer. It appears to be applying subpixel rendering (CT?) in the x-direction,
    but no y-direction antialiasing.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting. IE8 is using only
    GDI for text rendering. I have to look at this closer to understand what the differences
    are between us and FireFox. And I\u2019ll prepare few screenshots showing DWrite
    in IE9, to show sub-pixel rendering of TrueType and CFF fonts.\r\n\r\n<cite>Based
    on the video presentation on Channel 9, I\u2019m led to believe that DirectWrite
    will respect the current behavior of fonts - such as line breaks, word spacing,
    etc...\r\nTrue? Not counting the inevitable edge cases - will it be essentially
    backwards compatible? Dare I say \u201Cseamlessly\u201D so?</cite>\r\n\r\nI am
    not ready now to talk about compatibility story in relation to DWrite. The best
    answer I can give you is that we are aware of this issue and looking at it. At
    least there is an ability in Dwrite to use glyph metrics compatible with GDI.
    There are other aspects other than compatibility, e.g. transforms, animations,
    SVG, that make using subpixel positioning the best option.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 19:09:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Sergey\r\n\r\nEagerly awaiting the screen shots.\r\nThanks."
  created: '2009-12-03 02:26:16'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Eagerly awaiting the screen shots.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe to :).\r\n\r\nAs
    soon as I find some time, I'll do that.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2009-12-03 16:03:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It makes sense to me that depending on how powerful my computer and graphics
    card were, I might like to turn off such amenities as ClearType, and if the web
    designer might prefer his page to look prettier on my computer, that should be
    just too bad.\r\n\r\nThat's what \"your rasterization\" means."
  created: '2009-12-03 16:35:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard:\r\n\r\nThe need for expert help to do high end TT hinting isn't
    going away any time soon. With some investment, TT autohinting could be significantly
    improved, raising the baseline and reducing the relative advantage of manual high-end
    hinting (with tools like VTT). The other thing that can be done is to develop
    auto-hint assistance that feeds into the manual tools, reducing the amount of
    expert work required to get to the best results. I've heard of multiple folks
    investigating or doing both approaches, but so far it's all proprietary (in the
    stricter sense of tools not being available to the public, not just that they're
    not open source).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-11 05:40:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@TP\r\n\r\nThanks for the info.\r\n<em>With some investment, TT autohinting
    could be significantly improved, raising the baseline and reducing the relative
    advantage of manual high-end hinting (with tools like VTT).</em>\r\n\r\nNo push
    for open-source. Open, proprietary, whatever. I'm just concerned about \"available\".\r\nWhen
    Adobe tells me that they don't use Fontlab, they use \"in-house\" tools - well,
    why are they being kept in-house?\r\nThey have every right to do so, of course.
    Just as MSFT has every right to keep VTT's learning curve high - as long as, I
    presume, they have access to people who've climbed that curve and can do the work.
    But that helps them, not me or anybody else.\r\nAnd it leaves fonts in general
    looking that much worse.\r\n\r\nBut I'm glad to hear your opinion that a substantial
    improvement can be achieved. I'm hoping it's just a matter of time.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-14 16:19:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, Adobe make their OpenType FDK code available for free as both a stand
    alone tool set and for use by FontLab, DTL FontMaster, and anyone else who wants
    it.\r\n\r\nI don't understand what you mean by 'keeping VTT's learning curve high'.
    The learning curve seems to me to be as high as the software demands, and isn't
    some kind of artificial construct. Also note that VTT represents a significant
    investment by MS in <em>reducing</em> the difficulty of TT hinting, which previously
    was done by writing code."
  created: '2009-12-14 18:36:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I\u2019m hoping it\u2019s just a matter of time.\r\n\r\nTime alone?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-14 20:25:44'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@John Hudson\r\n\r\n<em>Adobe make their OpenType FDK code available for
    free</em>\r\nIf I'm out to lunch, it certainly won't be the first or last time.
    The impression I got was that there were tools outside of the FDK. I'm going to
    ask the person I got the info from if I've got this right. Probably not if you
    don't think so. Thanks. I'll check.\r\n\r\n<em>The learning curve seems to me
    to be as high as the software demands, and isn\u2019t some kind of artificial
    construct.</em>\r\nLook, you and Ross can probably navigate around in VTT like
    it was Windows Notepad. But that's a result of years of working with it. There
    was a lot of trial and error, I'm sure, that you dimly remember if at all.\r\nI
    could be out to lunch on this, too, but I suspect you may be too close to it to
    fairly judge. Once you lose those newbie eyes, that's that. It's really hard to
    take a fresh look.\r\nWhen it first appeared I paid special attention to this:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/MinionPro_DF3vsDF4embedding/\r\nIt's
    an Adobe Flex app put together by Miguel Sousa in conjuction with a post about
    text rendering in the new NYTimes Reader.\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2009/05/times_reader_2.html\r\nThis
    seemed like the basis for one heckuva lot friendlier interface for hinting than
    I'm seeing in VTT.\r\nAnyway, you don't need to be a forensic scientist to spot
    the cobwebs on the Microsoft Typography site or to notice that WEFT hasn't been
    updated since 2003 (with no talk of doing so, either - I guess the ball is in
    Ascender's court now).\r\nAnd the stark difference in rendering between Mac and
    Windows - at least at larger text sizes - is an embarassment, really. I just get
    the overall impression that the attitude towards font-creation tools and documentation
    has been that they're good enough and there's no great need to make them appreciably
    more accessible to the average type designer, let alone the average would-be type
    designer.\r\nI understand that the market for such tools is limited. This isn't
    ASP.NET. But I think MSFT gets enough competitive advantage out of its investment
    in fonts to expect more. I'm sure sii wouldn't complain if his department's budget
    were to expand.\r\nBTW - I <strong>do</strong> think @font-face will create a
    great desire for educational materials aimed at those without formal training
    in design.\r\nBeing able to use fonts in web pages will really be a huge change.
    Hard to predict what's going to happen when you can design a font and get an instant
    worldwide viewing.\r\nLook at Flickr and photography, YouTube and video, Google
    Blogger and bullshit.\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\n<em>Time alone?</em>\r\nYou saw my invisible
    subtext, did you?\r\nNo, I don't think so. I'm all ears as to any suggestions.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-14 22:53:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, I never said that VTT was easy to learn, only that a) the learning
    curve is commensurate with the complexity of the software and the job that it
    does and b) it is less steep than learning to hint at the actual instruction level
    or even in the TypeManTalk language that preceded VTT. Your comments implied that
    MS was somehow \u2018keeping\u2019 VTT difficult to learn, suggesting that it
    could be easier. I don't think VTT could be much easier than it is, and if you
    want something easier then use a less complex (and less powerful) tool such as
    FontLab Studio, which is adequate for a lot of jobs."
  created: '2009-12-15 03:05:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> MS was somehow \u2018keeping\u2019 VTT difficult to learn\r\n\r\nI agree
    that this is absolutely not true. Since Y's highest quality is achievable without
    it, VTT is essentially for X. X hints being rarely if ever interpreted (to a useful
    result for text), MS could easily be said to have helped make VTT extremely easy
    to learn. The Mac doesn't need VTT's capabilities at all, and windows has too
    many behaviors. So, VTT is no longer an expert's choice for web font development.
    That leaves the 'high end TT hinting\" Thomas refers to, which has, most unfortunately,
    become uncoupled from web font quality, where they once were 'one'.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-12-15 13:12:18'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Richard:\r\n\r\n<cite>The impression I got was that there were tools outside
    of the FDK.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere aren't \"tools\" in the sense of applications
    or the like. There's a motley collection of Python scripts. Some of those, many
    of the key ones, are already in the FDK. Basically Adobe is licensing for free
    all its most valuable code related to making fonts. Besides the code used to actually
    compile OpenType features and OT-CFF fonts, there's the CompareFamily tool, the
    Adobe auto-hinter and the obscure-yet-powerful TX conversion tool. Adobe's licensing
    its crown jewels of font development for free. There's certainly no attempt or
    desire to keep anything of great consequence proprietary.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-16 04:37:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tp, jh, db:\r\n\r\nThanks for clearing things up.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-16 12:19:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Adobe\u2019s licensing its crown jewels of font development for free. \r\n\r\nYou're
    makin' me wonder how \"crown jewels\" are defined out west?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-16 13:18:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...makin\u2019 me wonder how \u201Ccrown jewels\u201D are defined...\"\r\n\r\nIn
    inner-city Pittsburgh, where I grew up, there was a more visceral meaning--or
    was that \"family jewels\"? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-16 15:45:59'
date: '2009-11-19 14:56:19'
title: Web fonts - IE moving to DirectWrite...

---
