---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Most languages seem to be okay with the use of weight (eg. bold) to call out
  specific words or passages within body text. Italic seems to be more problematic
  for languages like Japanese and for say Arabic. Anyone aware of any other language-specific
  conventions? For example is color commonly used in some languages, or switching
  style (switching to sans-equivalent within serif-style body text), perhaps underlining,
  size changes, reversing-out, yellow highlighter etc., etc.,? Any specific examples
  would be appreciated.   \r\n\r\nThanks! Si"
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Maybe related: As Fraktur typefaces rarely have a bold companion (and hardly
    ever an italic), the preferred practice of emphasis was tracking. Also common:
    style-switching (e.g. Fraktur with Bastarda).\r\nIn Textura typefaces, tracking
    was rather unusual. A bigger point size was used for emphasized passages.\r\nAll-caps
    was a no-no, for obvious reasons. But capitalizing the first two letters was an
    accepted method \u2013 not only in \u2018GOtt\u2019.\r\n\r\nC.f. Friedrich Forssman:
    <em>Satzregeln f\xFCr gebrochene Schrift</em> [Blackletter typesetting rules],
    in Forssman/de Jong: <em>Detailtypografie</em> (also to be found in J. Schalansky:
    <em>Fraktur Mon Amour</em>)"
  created: '2009-11-21 20:16:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Older Greek texts frequently used tracking as emphasis as well. This practice
    is not so prevalent now.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/3428338386/in/set-72157616479131055/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-21 21:13:29'
- author:
    name: Chris_Harvey
  body: "Korean and Japanese (and presumably Chinese) use dots above the character
    instead of italics. When the text is set vertically, the dots go on the right.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/css-lang-e1_6619.gif]"
  created: '2009-11-21 22:12:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Armenian: largely because we have a floating emphasis mark that can be placed
    on any vowel we don't need Italic nearly as much; it's much more acceptable to
    have an Armenian font without an Italic. Another Armenian \"issue\" with Italic
    is that the script <em>normally</em> likes to be slanted...\r\n\r\nColor: I remember
    John Hudson saying that Ethiopian uses red like Latin uses Italics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-21 23:04:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks everyone for the input so far.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2009-11-22 05:18:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "As Chris Harvey said, in Korean you can use dots above the letters. However,
    this is rather old-fashioned, and you hardly ever see it nowadays.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a rather specialized way of emphasis where a different style is used for foreign
    terms. This is similar to how foreign terms are italicized in English, except
    that in Korean, foreign proper names are also given this treatment.\r\n\r\nThe
    style of the basic Korean text face, the equivalent of a serif roman, is a brushy
    serif known as 'myeongjo' or 'batang'. In my earliest elementary school textbooks,
    I remember that foreign terms were set apart by the use of the 'sunmyeongjo' style,
    which uses the Chinese 'Song' style serifs. In many contemporary Bibles, foreign
    terms are set in sans serif, like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/proverbssample_6216.gif]\r\n\r\nIn
    older bibles, where the text is set vertically, you may see single or double lines
    to the right of the terms, in the vertical analogue of the underline.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    the practice of setting foreign terms apart stylistically is very rare and I don't
    recall seeing it outside of those two examples. Korean uses so many foreign terms
    nowadays that it would be really impractical to mark every single instance.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't made a statistical analysis, but I'd say using bold (most often mechanical
    bolding) is the most common way of emphasizing nowadays. Other schemes are seen,
    such as switching to sans serif, changing colour, underlining, even mechanical
    slanting (shudder). I suspect this mostly has to do with the options provided
    by the word processing software, and no universally accepted standard has emerged.
    In practice, in many if not most serious books, you would hardly see any instance
    of visual emphasis of specific words or passages at all."
  created: '2009-11-22 07:49:45'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 it\u2019s much more acceptable to have an Armenian font without
    an Italic. Another Armenian \u201Cissue\u201D with Italic is that the script normally
    likes to be slanted...</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven you\u2019d be to incorporate Armenian
    into a font family which follows the (Roman) Reg./Italic scheme, how would do
    it?\r\na) make an upright \u201Cregular\u201D Armenian and a second, slanted cut
    for the \u201CItalics\"?\r\nb) make only one (slanted) Armenian into both fonts?\r\nc)
    \u2026 ?"
  created: '2009-11-23 08:52:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good question! This might not be the best place for an elaboration but I'll
    answer it here because it might be useful for other scripts. (Plus I don't know
    where else I'd do it...)\r\n\r\nI try to balance authenticity and functionality,
    and the furthest I've taken this is in the \"multilateral\" Nour&Patria* system:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NP-System_5097.gif]\r\n\r\n*
    http://themicrofoundry.com/ad/CR.pdf\r\n\r\nModernists hate the complexity, but
    I maintain that the \"dialog\" between scripts is necessarily complex (and you
    guys know what I think of Modernists :-). So basically the Armenian is slanted
    (because that's a good thing), the Latin's Italic is slanted the same degree,
    and each script has a subordinate for the other script. The Latin's subordinate
    Armenian is upright; it has too many serifs and the x-height is too big*. The
    Armenian's subordinate Latin is slanted, but it's not Italic; I actually love
    it, and I have a feeling it can be used to set quite long text (not too small
    though) but I also have to admit that it's idiosyncratic. The subordinates are
    \"flawed\", but it's actually in a way that helps them serve their master design
    well. This system of both parallels and hierarchies handles a very wide range
    of typesetting challenges. Fonts that have one cut for Latin and one cut for Armenian
    are almost always culturally inauthentic for one of the scripts, plus they're
    one-dimensional in terms of solving typographic problems.\r\n\r\n* Sadly the crushing
    majority of Armenian fonts are like this.\r\n\r\nNow, it would be nice to have
    an \"Italic\" for the Armenian. But people shouldn't see that as remotely equivalent
    to the need for an Italic in Latin.\r\n\r\nThe main thing I think is not to overly
    damage authenticity by forcing a script to adopt the typographic conventions of
    another script.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-23 17:44:33'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "What is the standard way of slecting or emphasizing Amenian text? Letterspace?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-23 22:25:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "(Sorry Simon - I think I won't take this any further now...)\r\nTo emphasize
    words you use the floating emphasis mark. For citations you use quotes (guillemets).
    The tricky thing is emphasizing more than one word at a time. Historically people
    have used a different font for this purpose (certainly not very nice) but one
    reason is that besides missing italics Armenian fonts rarely had more than one
    weight. And that brings me to how I think text should generally be emphasized,
    even in Latin: a demi weight! Not dark enough to wrest attention from the reader,
    but dark enough to be noticed one saccade away. Typo magazine does this (still,
    I hope) to great effect. So I make my fonts with finely gradated weights (and
    my Bolds tend to be pretty light).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-23 23:44:05'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "\u0577\u0561\u057F\u0577\u0576\u0578\u0580\u0570\u0561\u056F\u0561\u056C\u0565\u0574\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-11-24 00:35:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Sorry Simon - I think I won\u2019t take this any further now.\r\n\r\nIf
    I were to complain about someone taking a thread off on a tangent then that would
    be the ultimate double standard. :-)"
  created: '2009-11-24 02:57:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\u0532\u0561\u0580\u056B\u055B \u0565\u056F\u0561\u0580\u0589\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-24 03:12:54'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It\u2019s rather easy to subordinate one script to another. But what if you
    don\u2019t want to? What would be your choice if you were to incorporate Armenian
    into a Regular/Italic typeface containing several other scripts already? (Of course,
    the same question arises for more scripts: Hebrew, Arabic, Ethiopic \u2026 actually
    for the majority of all scripts as a matter of fact)."
  created: '2009-11-24 08:04:33'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "The Tai Viet script of SE Asia (used for the Tai Dam language and others)
    has an interesting typographic tradition. Instead of bold or italic, emphasized
    words are written larger, with an increase in 'x-height' and more compressed.
    This is reasonably common practice when writing the script. it occurs even within
    a paragraph, but here's a good sample of a heading.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TDHead_6005.png]\r\n\r\nWhen
    creating a 'bold' variant of our font, we considered creating a different 'emphasis'
    style altogether instead. The problem is that once the B and I buttons appeared
    on our word processors, the world got this idea that every font had to have a
    heavier-weight bold, a slanted italic, and (shudder) a sometimes terrible bold
    italic. We had limited time to choose what the 'bold' would look like, so we took
    the faster, easier, and more accepted modern choice - we added weight to the regular.
    <sigh>\r\n\r\nSo while there are some interesting and useful written traditions
    for emphasis using style variations, I'm afraid they are dying out rapidly.\r\n\r\nv"
  created: '2009-11-24 10:18:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "If you don't want to subordinate one script to another, clearly you don't
    have to. If Chinese or Arabic are quoted in an English text, one doesn't seek
    to find a Chinese or Arabic font that somehow matches with a Roman font.\r\n\r\nThis
    is usually true even in the case of, say, Gujarati, or Ethiopic, where one could,
    if so inclined, try with reasonable effort to make a matching font.\r\n\r\nSo
    one could take an Armenian font designed without reference to Latin, a Roman font
    designed without reference to Armenian, line up their baselines and the tops of
    their ascenders - and not worry even about the descenders being different, let
    alone trying to match \"x-heights\" (in the case of Armenian, the term is really
    a misnomer, and not just because it should be \"t-height\" - the visual function
    of that space is fundamentally different in that script)."
  created: '2009-11-24 15:39:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andreas, if by \"incorporate\" you imply making the scripts equal in presence
    (with the higher goals of authenticity and functionality) I personally believe
    the most one should do for Armenian and Latin is what I've done with the master
    designs of Nour and Patria. For other scripts you can safely get closer, but for
    others (think of Arabic and Latin for example) there are even greater limits.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I'm saying is I don't believe in using formal geometric congruence as a basis
    for multi-script families; things like uniform x-heights can be great for display
    work, but not for immersive text. Scripts simply have different needs, and enforcing
    vertical proportions etc. in effect causes each script in a font family to have
    different uses! Very dysfunctional for a typographer. Look at Sylfaen for example:
    the Latin is a decent text font, but the Georgian is like an equivalent to Quadraat
    Headliner!\r\nhttp://www.fontfont.com/shop/view_product.ep?id=12464\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with what I'm saying is that the necessary design effort goes up exponentially
    with the number of scripts in a system... But good design is very rarely quick
    & easy.\r\n\r\n*\r\n**\r\n**** (ON-TOPIC ALERT! :-)\r\n**\r\n*\r\nVictor, interesting.
    And you've reminded me about Georgian: although I don't actually know if this
    is any kind of convention, Georgian has one case, but two styles - one with extenders
    and one lining; and the latter is sometimes used for emphasis in a body of the
    former (which is naturally more texty).\r\n\r\n> line up their baselines and the
    tops of their ascenders\r\n\r\nThat doesn't always work...\r\n\r\nJohn, as you
    can probably tell I agree with your general view, however it <em>is</em> possible
    to be more discriminating: there <em>are</em> ways that two scripts can fruitfully
    match up, like color, and hopefully apparent size. I've tried to do that in Nour&Patria.\r\n\r\n>
    \u201Ct-height\u201D\r\n\r\nI call it \"\u0582-\u0540\u0561\u057D\u0561\u056F\"
    (pronounced \"hyun-Hasag\") = \"yiwn-Height\".  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-24 17:19:06'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/user/33839|Chris_Harvey]] wrote: <cite>Korean and
    Japanese (and presumably Chinese) use dots above the character instead of italics.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    use of this technique in Chinese is practically non-existent, apart from the stray
    case where the book in question was translated from the Japanese. In Chinese,
    terms that require special emphasis are normally marked off with quotation marks
    \u300C\u300D like this: \u300C\u9019\u4E00\u6A23\u300D\u3002You will frequently
    encounter books printed in Chinese without a single variant in either weight or
    style.\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/user/50554|quadibloc]] wrote: <cite>If you
    don\u2019t want to subordinate one script to another, clearly you don\u2019t have
    to. If Chinese or Arabic are quoted in an English text, one doesn\u2019t seek
    to find a Chinese or Arabic font that somehow matches with a Roman font.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    statement is patently false if we are speaking not of necessity but of expediency.
    The fundamental problem of combining type (Which Roman with which Italic? Which
    Serif with which Sans-Serif? Which display face with which book type?) does not
    change when we are also combining languages on the same page and especially on
    the same line (as in the case of a \"quote\").\r\n\r\nIn the case of Chinese and
    Japanese, for example, quite evidently a Roman Sans-serif/Grotesk typeface can
    be justly combined with a Gothic[\u9ED1\u9AD4] face, and a Serifed face should
    best be combined with a either a Ming [\u660E\u9AD4] or standard script [\u6977\u66F8]
    typeface.\r\n\r\nThe solution however it not always so easy, and requires that
    one know how to set type in both languages independently before attempting to
    combine them together!"
  created: '2009-11-24 18:43:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It is true that there are still some general things one can do in choosing
    fonts in very different languages. As noted, there are Chinese fonts that are
    built from plain geometric lines, in addition to the conventional ones that are
    based on the traditional means of writing Chinese characters with the brush.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I have seen a specimen of a Chinese font designed to have serifs like a Roman
    font, though, in general one would not manipulate a Chinese font to more closely
    match a Roman font. Chinese fonts, unlike Armenian ones, do not have an x-height
    to tamper with.\r\n\r\nI wasn't trying to say that taste should not govern one's
    choice between valid typefaces for each of the languages used, so that the two
    might harmonize in style. Rather, I was noting that the more a script differs
    from the Latin script, the less there is a temptation to modify that script in
    ways inappropriate to that script in order to make it look more like another script,
    as in the example of Armenian above."
  created: '2009-11-24 19:50:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, for one thing it's better not to think of it as \"modification\". Ideally
    you design with the right mindframe from the start. This is possible even if you
    make a new non-Latin font based on an existing Latin one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-24 20:21:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Georgian:\r\nI remembered having an email exchange with Kamal Mansour about
    that script a long time ago, so I went back through my old Netscape email; it
    was in February of 2000, and back then apparently my grasp of the setting of Georgian
    was more firm, and I stated pretty clearly that they do/did as a convention of
    sorts use the lining style (basically looks like all-caps) in a body of extendered
    text, for emphasis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-25 03:51:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Harvey
  body: "Jongseong is absolutely right, I don\u2019t see any use of the emphasis dots
    in the Korean-language books I have here. However, the emphasis dots do show up
    occasionally in advertisement (billboards, in magazines or newspapers), and I
    do see the dots in pop-up text that is so ubiquitous on Korean TV. Here\u2019s
    something from a local newspaper\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mybesthome_152x71_4538.gif]\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s
    a link to the inside of a Korean book with a number of emphasis types.\r\nhttp://www.languagegeek.com/misc/emphasis/wealthOfNationsBookSl.jpg\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Slanted
    (first two lines in orange)</li>\r\n<li>Sans-serif (Leo Huberman\u2019s name)</li>\r\n<li>Angled
    brackets (throughout, both single and double)</li></ul>\r\n\r\nChris\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2009-11-25 19:33:39'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: The HTML blink tag solves all the problems of calling out a particular area
    of text, and works for every language on the planet.
  created: '2009-11-25 20:39:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It also solves the problem of being expected to actually read.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-25 20:50:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ideally, yes, one designs with the right frame of mind. This requires, as
    a most basic precondition, familiarity with the typographic conventions and fashions
    of both languages involved.\r\n\r\nMy emphasis was on not trying to do too much
    if one is not starting from this position. If one is mixing two languages, and
    one is not familiar with what is acceptable or readable in one of those languages,
    then it is reasonable to say that one shouldn't do violence to the font used for
    that language in pursuit of a visual harmony between the two languages.\r\n\r\nReadability
    of both of the texts should take precedence over artistic goals.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    the balance involved is very different depending on the application. One can distort
    fonts that are appearing in 48 point in an advertisement to be striking and noticeable
    - and so that two different languages will match - and thus creating, say, an
    Arabic version of Kabel or Stop or Neon is entirely reasonable there - whereas
    if one is typesetting an academic paper with foreign-language quotations, then
    of course one just takes the routine standard fonts for each language involved,
    with no attempt to engage in any funny business."
  created: '2009-11-25 21:12:13'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "I have a suspicion that the Gothic [\u9ED1\u9AD4] varieties of Chinese characters
    were developed specifically to be like the roman sans serif. The the normal printed
    characters, which are a dialectic combination of carving and brushing, appear
    to correspond to the roman serif typefaces, and so the development of a sans serif
    counterpart seems to have emerged in the early republican period in China (ie
    after 1911). I don't recall having seen any woodblock printed texts with gothic/hei
    characters. Missionary presses in Shanghai would be a good place to look, although
    I don't know what the situation was in Japan. Of course nowadays, books basically
    use a light or medium weight of Ming or less commonly fangsong for body text.
    Heads are done in either a heavier ming or heiti. Kai is never used for body text,
    but for emphasis or quotations. \r\n\r\nIf the publication is in a roman font,
    then probably a ming would be safest for cjk glyphs, choosing a weight that matches
    the color of the English font. The Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies did pretty
    well even back in 1945 (although the glyphs should be lowered to approach but
    not reach the depth of the descenders): [img:sites/default/files/old-images/hjas_5531.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nNow
    (2009) it uses arno pro and adobe mingstdlt:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hjas3_6290.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere
    the characters look a little light, could be lowered, and need more space between
    the glyphs and roman letters. My thinking on baseline alignment and overall page
    color can be explained with this next image. The red rectangles need to be about
    the same height:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hjas4_5690.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
    I have in mind is something like this: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/hjas5_5748.png]\r\n
    \r\nThe characters may seem a little low at first, but the consistency in page
    balance will win you over shortly...\r\n\r\nDisclaimer: this may be a tangent. "
  created: '2009-11-26 02:08:23'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "All official documents of the United Nations are routinely published in six
    languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish (German is the
    seventh, unofficial, language). Their formatting is cross-language-consistent,
    although different typographic features are used to interpret the structure and
    the hierarchy of the texts in different language versions of the same documents.
    Roman, italic and bold styles are used in English, French, Russian and Spanish.
    Upright, [back]slanted and boldface are used in Arabic. In Chinese language versions
    Song, Kai and Hei styles play the role of the Western roman, italic and bold,
    respectively. <em>Note</em>: bold italic, underline, double underline, outline,
    shadow, small caps, redline, and strikeout styles are [normally] not used in the
    formatting of the UN documents.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-11-26 04:41:13'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Note: bold italic, underline, double underline, outline, shadow, small
    caps, redline, and strikeout styles are [normally] not used in the formatting
    of the UN documents.\r\n\r\nYou think we could have a security council resolution
    banning all of those (except bold italic) from all documents?\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2009-11-26 16:10:34'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul> <li><em>a security council resolution banning all of those (except bold
    italic) from all documents</em></li></ul>Predictably, \u2018design by committee\u2019
    is daily practice at the United Nations. I remember having been much upset when
    I learned that one of the committees of the General Assembly passed a decision
    to have the resolutive parts of all documents (\u2018<strong>recommendations</strong>\u2019)
    typeset in boldface. And those items are not just lines: often they are paragrahs
    and paragraphs of continuing, structured text."
  created: '2009-11-26 17:22:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Government bureaucracies at their finest, Maxim. I can feel your pain :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-11-26 18:32:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "The slanted Arabic is interesting (checked out some PDFs from the UN site)
    \u2013 is that an \"authentic\" Arabic device, or basically an adaptation of the
    concept of italicization?"
  created: '2009-11-26 19:56:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hebrew does that too, and most people don't seem to mind.\r\nBut it's much
    more jarring in Arabic (which makes sense).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-26 20:11:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: So is there an authentic device for adding emphasis in Arabic?
  created: '2009-11-26 20:18:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would say the situation with Arabic is even more drastic than Armenian
    or Georgian, since Arabic doesn't even have anything like caps; and you can't
    really make it [notably] more cursive! :-/  You could use another style (like
    Kufi within a body of Naskh) but that's very hard to make look nice, plus it totally
    throws of any \"atmosphere\" the typesetter is [hopefully] shooting for (and the
    typical Latin italics actually has this problem too).\r\n\r\nReally, a [gently]
    darker weight works\r\nfor almost any script, including Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-26 20:33:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I thought I would do a web search for images of pages from Arabic newspapers.\r\n\r\nWeight
    certainly can be increased for Arabic; as might be expected, it is done by thickening
    horizontal strokes mainly, instead of thickening vertical strokes mainly as in
    Latin fonts.\r\n\r\nBut while one sees bold headlines in various degrees of emphasis,
    while a heading might be in one style of printing, and a subheading in another,
    all the words in any one heading, and all the words in a piece of body copy, are
    almost always the same.\r\n\r\nAlso, I came across this:\r\n\r\nhttp://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/05/14/typographic-matchmaking-project/\r\n\r\na
    page about a book about designing Arabic fonts on the basis of Dutch fonts - which
    ties in nicely to the topic of this thread."
  created: '2009-11-26 21:12:01'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Chris Harvey: <cite>Here\u2019s a link to the inside of a Korean book with
    a number of emphasis types.\r\nhttp://www.languagegeek.com/misc/emphasis/wealthOfNationsBookSl.jpg\r\n\r\n\u2022Slanted
    (first two lines in orange)\r\n\u2022Sans-serif (Leo Huberman\u2019s name)\r\n\u2022Angled
    brackets (throughout, both single and double)</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting that you
    bring up the angled brackets. The single and double angled brackets are something
    of a remnant from vertical typography that is finding new life in a more specialized
    use.\r\n\r\nThe angled brackets \u300E\u2026\u300F and \u300C\u2026\u300D are
    identical to the forms that were used for vertical typography, except rotated
    90 degrees counterclockwise. (Korean was traditionally written vertically, but
    in the last century has switched to writing horizontally, with the last holdouts\u2014newspapers\u2014making
    the transition in the last couple of decades.) In addition, there are also the
    forms \u300A\u2026\u300B and \u3008\u2026\u3009 that are becoming quite common
    in horizontal typography (the Korean Wikipedia uses these).\r\n\r\nThese used
    to be just quotation marks, interchangeable in horizontal typography with \u201C\u2026\u201D
    and \u2018\u2026\u2019. But since the different forms are available, it is only
    natural that they have adopted different functions. Increasingly, \u201C\u2026\u201D
    and \u2018\u2026\u2019 are used to mark speech and quotation, while \u300E\u2026\u300F
    and \u300C\u2026\u300D or \u300A\u2026\u300B and \u3008\u2026\u3009 are used to
    mark titles of works, in the same way italicization and quotation marks are used
    in English (e.g., <em>Macbeth</em>, \u201CHey Jude\u201D). In the past, the same
    set of quotation marks were used for both quotations and titles of works, but
    the availability of different forms of quotation marks has made the new distinction
    possible.\r\n\r\nIn the link Chris Harvey provided above, the angled brackets
    are all used for titles of works. These days, it is very rare to see angled brackets
    used for anything other than titles of works, which wasn't necessarily the case
    even a couple of decades ago. You would probably never see angled brackets to
    mark quotations in a Korean text produced today in South Korea."
  created: '2009-11-28 10:16:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While looking for something else I ran into this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ethiop_4637.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt's
    a scan I once made from \"L'aventure des \xE9critures \u2014 Mati\xE8res et formes\"
    (Biblioth\xE8que nationale de France, 1998). The detail (mine) shows the Ethiopian
    use of red mentioned above.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 02:12:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nice example. That's curious \u2013 I'd wonder if that's still a convention
    today,* and if/how it survived technologies where using more than one color is
    difficult or financially prohibitive.\r\n* And if not, what do they use instead?"
  created: '2009-12-04 06:55:02'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: "In Japanese novels and magazines, those dots are indeed the most common way
    of adding emphasis. In manga and comic strips, katakana (the syllabary with the
    more angular-shaped characters) is more likely to be used as emphasis. In fact,
    the use of katakana parallels italics in English in many ways \u2014 emphasis,
    foreign words, scientific plant and animal names, etc.\r\n\r\nOn websites, brochures,
    signs, and other informal materials, Japanese quotation marks are often added
    for emphasis. The translation agencies I work for often want to carry these over
    into translated materials, and I have to explain that English quotation marks
    are purely quotational rather than emphatic and give the text an ironic effect
    if used unnecessarily.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 14:50:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "On the topic of making one language look like another...\r\n\r\nI remember
    reading that our present lower-case alphabet is the result of a mistake made by
    (those working on behalf of) Charlemagne. They assumed that the uncial writing
    in current use was a faithful representation of a Roman hand.\r\n\r\nWe now have
    authentic specimens of Roman uncial, in which a few additional letters (like N)
    looked like their upper-case counterparts. Given all the bold and strange things
    type designers do nowadays, a typeface in which \"Charlemagne's mistake\" is undone
    would not seem particularly bizarre.\r\n\r\nBut to go even farther... as we know,
    lower-case, with descenders and ascenders, is more legible than all upper-case.\r\n\r\nIn
    web searches, I did find the novel script devised for Hebrew by Hugh J. Schoenfield,
    author of \"The Passover Plot\", which provided an upper-case and a lower-case.\r\n\r\nOther
    than that, though, I couldn't find a less radical approach to that which I thought
    would have occurred to someone. The original Phoenician alphabet - or the early
    forms of Hebrew writing that closely resembled it - was written with parts of
    the letters functioning as ascenders and descenders, so it could serve as a lower-case
    script in partnership with the existing square script as the upper case. (Presumably
    in a sans-serif version that tries to look like Helvetica or Univers.)\r\n\r\nHas
    this already been done?"
  created: '2009-12-07 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We're veering away from style differentiation, but hey.\r\n\r\nUncial: one
    thing I'd love to see is a font where the caps are uncial, as opposed to the conventional
    Ancient Roman.\r\n\r\nHugh Schoenfield: the caps business is useful, but overall
    his results were pure freak-show. Not to mention that they suffered from a serious
    cultural inferiority complex (aided by a nice strong shove from an apparently
    deeply chauvinistic Morison, in the introduction to the book).\r\n\r\nCaps in
    a Semitic language: I've seen one very nice proposal for Arabic, where each letter
    has sort of a \"roof\" added to it (but a nicely executed, flowing structure).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 20:36:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I've encountered a font with uncials for its caps, at least in some cases.
    Otherwise, it looks a bit like Verona or Freehand. It is the font that had been
    originally used for the names of the cards in the collectible card game Magic:
    the Gathering. (Today, they've modernized the card format, and the font they use
    for this looks a bit like Clearface.)\r\n\r\nOne page exhibiting a sample of an
    imitation of that font is here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ecofonts.com/download-free-font/magicthe-gathering.aspx\r\n\r\nThe
    font Luminari\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/luminari/\r\n\r\nalso
    belongs in this category."
  created: '2009-12-08 13:27:49'
date: '2009-11-21 18:38:58'
title: International equivalents to bold, italic, small caps etc.,

---
