---
author:
  name: quadibloc
  picture: 118515
body: "In my opinion, although it is very early in its lifetime to say this, I suspect
  that the popularity of Times Roman bids fair to endure nearly as long as that of
  Caslon.\r\n\r\nOf course, there was Stanley Morison's own famous comment on that
  font:\r\n\r\n<em>As a new face it should, by the grace of God and the art of man,
  have been broad and open, generous and ample; instead, by the vice of Mammon and
  the misery of the machine, it is bigoted and narrow, mean and puritan.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
  it has short descenders and a large x-height, but not so much so as Corona, for
  it was designed originally for use in a newspaper, albeit one printed with more
  care, and on better paper, than the typical North American newspaper.\r\n\r\nAn
  alternate version of Times with long descenders was offered for a while by one founder
  (I think Monotype itself); it was made to match regular Times in size, which meant
  that leading was obligatory, as it was still cast on the body of its nominal point
  size - the long descenders became vertical kerns. I don't know if it was ever digitized.\r\n\r\nBut
  my question is this: given the popularity - and evident merits - of Times Roman,
  why hasn't someone (or has someone, outside of my meagre knowledge) produced, as
  it were, a \"Times Book\" in which not only the descenders are lengthened, but so
  are the ascenders (slightly), with the lower case reduced slightly in size relative
  to the upper case so as to moderate the x-height to a \"normal\" value, and the
  stroke widths then also adjusted (made heavier in the lower case, or lighter in
  the upper case, or both, so that the ratio between them remains at the appropriate
  value)?\r\n\r\nTimes is a beautiful font, but if those characteristics of it which
  save on paper (the vice of Mammon perhaps becoming the virtue of wise stewardship
  of our forests) can fairly be recognized as a problem, why can't this problem be
  solved, so that the fullness of the beauty of Times may be appreciated - and the
  spirits of both Stanley Morison and Victor Lardent find peace?"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026why hasn\u2019t someone\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nTimes is classic
    Dutch book type adapted for newsprint. Why would anybody bother reversing the
    process? There\u2019s hardly a shortage of good Dutch book faces out there already."
  created: '2009-11-27 02:11:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Oh, silly me. Yes; if one likes Times Roman so much that one wishes to have
    a regular book typeface that looks as much like it as possible, there's always...
    <strong>Plantin</strong>.\r\n\r\nI do think, though, that Times Roman isn't <em>just</em>
    an adaptation. Even compared to Plantin, it has just that extra little bit of
    zing - by sharpening the serifs, as Caslon did - and so it isn't entirely beyond
    imagining that for some, nothing less than a book-ified Times would do."
  created: '2009-11-27 04:00:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Times_5662.jpg]\r\nTimes and Starling
    Book.\r\n**\r\nBTW, I'm puzzled why you would consider the most-read book face
    ever to not be a \"book face\".\r\nAren't mass market paperbacks books?"
  created: '2009-11-27 06:59:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think Times Roman actually works quite well in books. But its proportions
    aren't those of a classic book face, and so even Stanley Morison himself has criticized
    it.\r\n\r\nSince the \"flaw\", if flaw it is, of a large x-height is so easy to
    correct, I had wondered why this had not been done.\r\n\r\nBut then I came across
    the font New Aster, designed by Simoncini for Linotype, which seems to be rather
    close to what I was thinking of. Or perhaps I've just been confused about what
    the x-height of Times is."
  created: '2009-11-27 10:42:17'
- author:
    name: jstypo
    picture: 112110
  body: "<cite>In my opinion, although it is very early in its lifetime to say this,
    I suspect that the popularity of Times Roman bids fair to endure nearly as long
    as that of Caslon.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed, very, very early. You may have to bequeath
    your great grandchildren's grandchildren the link to this discussion for them
    to ascertain any truth in this statement.\r\n\r\nToday there are so many excellent
    book faces in their own right that it seems almost embarrasing to drag Times into
    their company."
  created: '2009-11-27 16:44:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I\u2019m puzzled why you would consider the most-read book face ever
    to not be a \u201Cbook face\u201D.\"</cite>\r\nNick, would you really classify
    fonts not according to the design's intention, \r\nbut actual usage?\r\nLet's
    see\u2026 I have a book partly typeset in Aachen here (yes, really). \r\nSo does
    that mean Aachen is a book face? :-\\"
  created: '2009-11-27 16:50:56'
- author:
    name: jstypo
    picture: 112110
  body: The name escapes me right now, but there is a well known German newspaper
    set in Sabon --yes, a book face!-- and the results are surprisingly agreeable.
    Somehow my sense of anticipation is not whetted by that book set in Aachen ...
    although one never really knows.
  created: '2009-11-27 18:43:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The compactness of Times Roman is probably what made it popular for paperbacks.
  created: '2009-11-27 18:52:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, would you really classify fonts not according to the design\u2019s
    intention, but actual usage?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's this Nina, <em>reductio ad Aachen</em>?
    \r\n\r\nThere are many ways to categorize any font.\r\nWe're talking about a face,
    designed for an upscale newspaper, that has become the most-used, most-read face
    in book publishing. It seems absurd to not consider it a book face, amongst its
    many other uses. \r\n\r\nMorison's antipathy represents the hypocritical snobbery
    that exists within the type and design world, looking down upon the \"trade\"
    work that most of us must do to make a living--serving mammon--while we admire
    work that is more refined and \"creative\". But he was mistaken about the rudeness
    of Times: it was used as the text face of the Penrose annual for many years, during
    his lifetime, in an open, generous and ample layout. Apparently, it passed muster
    with his peers.\r\n\r\nThere is no reason \"classic\" (hardcover) book faces need
    have a small x-height and supposedly aristocratic proportions. Dante, for instance,
    is quite proletarian in that respect.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-27 18:59:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Frankly, I wouldn't be above typesetting a book in Corona. But my reasons
    would not be entirely \"mean and puritan\"; rather than trying to save trees,
    it would be because the face was once so familiar - and still blends familiar
    ingredients and proportions - that it might be more nondescript than Century Expanded,
    and thus better approach the worthy ideal of the \"crystal goblet\".\r\n\r\nBut
    snobbery though certain things may be, I'm not sure it's hypocritical. Designing
    Paragon and Aurora and Excelsior and Corona... yes, it was a living, but as a
    post here noted, designing the TTS legibility fonts was more \"work\" and less
    \"fun\" than working on something that would be more creative, more of a labor
    of love.\r\n\r\nThus, cutting Jenson Oldstyle or Poliphilus - that's the sort
    of thing a type designer wishes to get to do when he gets to the top of the field.
    That's what will be acclaimed and remembered when rubber rollers on stereotype
    presses become museum pieces.\r\n\r\nIt's not hypocritical to pay one's rent by
    doing the work that one can find, or to prefer to be doing something more creative.
    That's true in technical fields as well as artistic ones."
  created: '2009-11-27 19:16:30'
- author:
    name: jstypo
    picture: 112110
  body: "<cite>Frankly, I wouldn\u2019t be above typesetting a book in Corona.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnder
    certain circumstances you might have to do even worse.\r\n\r\nI've seen books
    'typeset' in communist countries --I'm thinking of Cuba in this particular instance--
    where the setting itself is nothing more than pages banged up on 1950's typewriters,
    reduced to the final book size. Awful doesn't even begin to describe it. One can
    only pity those who are obliged to use such books.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that gently
    scolding those who produce books this way cannot be construed as snobbery nor
    hypocrisy. As typographers, one is just upholding over 500 years of tradition
    while at the same time showing that we've learnt a thing or two along the way.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-27 19:53:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick, maybe language is a bit too imprecise here. To me a font being a \"book
    face\" would primarily mean \"a typeface designed for books\" and [somewhat] optimized
    for that purpose. Now maybe a font could be a \"book face\" as well as something
    else; but if on the other hand you take \"book face\" to mean \"a typeface used
    in books\", then that can really be anything. Which makes the term kinda useless
    in my book (sorry).\r\nNot meaning to derail the thread, this is really just semantics."
  created: '2009-11-27 19:53:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree that Times New Roman is a great typeface, with many assets. \r\n\r\nAs
    Mark said, it is extremely compact, which makes it good for shorter columns--newspaper
    and magazine columns, paper backs. Also of compact types it combines being dark,
    readable at small sizes, and clean all at the same time. \r\n\r\nWhoever did it
    basically took a large x-height Dutch type and put sharp, lapidary serifs, like
    Gill's Perpetua, on it instead of the slabby originals. This worked very well,
    and it is hard to beat for compact, short printed columns at small size. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    to me it is a little too compact for ideal comfort in reading. Also its sharpness
    and compactness has a certain kind of \"I'm all business\" aesthetic about it
    that I don't think is best for many uses.  \r\n\r\nAt long measure, such as in
    a single column on letter size or A4 paper with narrow margins, it is pretty much
    of a disaster. "
  created: '2009-11-27 21:00:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It\u2019s not hypocritical to pay one\u2019s rent by doing the work that
    one can find, or to prefer to be doing something more creative.</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    it's not, if those two situations are considered separately; but the connection
    between them is tenuous.\r\nIt's hypocritical to assert that one's rent-money
    work is inherently inferior, or that one's work which achieves popular acclaim
    is thereby second rate.  \r\n\r\nFurther on Morison's hypocrisy: he was happy
    to take the acclaim for having excogitated Times, although it is now understood
    that he swiped the design from Starling Burgess and Victor Lardent did all the
    work.\r\n\r\n<em>Thus, cutting Jenson Oldstyle or Poliphilus - that\u2019s the
    sort of thing a type designer wishes to get to do when he gets to the top of the
    field.</em>\r\n\r\nA bit of a generalization. I suspect that more of us take a
    crack at reviving Jenson early on.\r\nAnd if you made it to the top and wanted
    to leave your mark on history, surely doing something original would make more
    sense than a revival?\r\nBTW, Poliphilus wasn't designed or \"cut\": it was pure
    concept, a photo-facsimile. \r\n"
  created: '2009-11-27 22:28:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina is right, a font's ideal usage isn't\r\ndetermined by its most popular
    usage.\r\n\r\n> There is no reason \u201Cclassic\u201D (hardcover)\r\n> book faces
    need have a small x-height\r\n\r\nExcept, of course, readability!\r\n\r\n> it
    is now understood that he swiped the design from\r\n> Starling Burgess and Victor
    Lardent did all the work.\r\n\r\nHave there been new revelations since the APHA
    articles?\r\nBecause if not, this characterization is bogus.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 05:49:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Except, of course, readability!</em>\r\n\r\nTimes has almost the same
    vertical proportions (cap to x-height ratio) as Minion, a face that has become
    quite popular and respected for book and text work in general. Is Minion, too,
    not really a \"book\" face, because of its x-height? (Don't tell Robert Bringhurst!)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ixlp2_4356.jpg]"
  created: '2009-11-28 07:15:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"almost the same vertical proportions (cap to x-height ratio)\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    looks conveniently similar indeed \u2013 but wouldn't the x-ht/extender ratio
    really be more relevant than x-ht/cap? "
  created: '2009-11-28 12:49:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, are you being serious?\r\nMinion's x-height is notably smaller* plus
    its forms are much wider.\r\nTo a text face designer, there are mountains and
    valleys between them.\r\n\r\n* Look at the extenders, not the caps! Duh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 15:31:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...wouldn\u2019t the x-ht/extender ratio really be more relevant than
    x-ht/cap?</em>\r\n\r\nI think all three (cap height, extender height, descender
    length) are relevant to x-height.\r\n\r\nHowever, isn't it true that in typography
    we normally discuss x-height in relation to cap height, and extender length in
    relation to x-height? In other words, we say that a typeface has a small x-height
    if it is small in relation to cap height. But if it is small in relation to extender
    length, we don't say that it has a small x-height, rather, we say that that the
    font has long extenders.\r\n\r\nTherefore, it is correct to say that Times has
    a large x-height and short extenders; and that Minion has a large x-height and
    long (er) extenders. What you are saying, Hrant, is that any typeface with long
    extenders has a small x-height, according to which logic Minion does not have
    a large x-height. But if you ask typographers about Minion's x-height, I think
    the consensus would be that it is medium to large, because they will compare it
    to cap height. Duh."
  created: '2009-11-28 22:18:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Of course they're all relative, etc.\r\nFrankly, I don't know of that convention
    of defining one via the other and not the other way round. But if that is indeed
    so, it seems (a) a bit arbitrary, and (b) not very helpful, at least when discussing
    readability: How relevant is cap height to reading, compared to extender length?
    Not very, I would surmise, at least not if you're typesetting English. So doesn't
    it just make more sense to talk about x-ht/extenders?"
  created: '2009-11-28 22:36:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, relevant? You mean like 95% of text (lc) versus 5% (UC)? There's no
    way you can equate \"vertical proportions\" with \"cap to x-height ratio\" as
    you did above. That's like saying an airplane gets more traction than a car because
    its wheels are relatively smaller than a car's. It ignores almost everything that
    matters.\r\n\r\nA setting of Times looks nothing like a setting of Minion, and
    that's due largely to the latter's x-height being much shorter and wider, not
    compared to the caps but compared to the vertical span of the bulk of text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 22:52:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the most useful measure of size of x-height for the sake of type
    discussions is the percentage of the em. For then you can specify caps, ascenders,
    descenders etc independently in relation to that as well. \r\n\r\nHowever, as
    95% plus of type in extended type is lower case, the relationship between the
    x height and the ascenders is visually the most significant figure for aesthetics
    and possible affect on readability. \r\n\r\nThe actual affect of x-height on readability
    I think is pretty hard to pin down, in a case when differences are as small they
    are between Minion and Times New Roman. \r\n\r\nThe difficulty is that the overall
    readability is, as Nick is fond of pointing out, a matter of the overall setting.
    If you have short columns tightly set at 10 point, then Times might win. If columns
    of a somewhat longer measure set at 11 point with a little more leading, then
    Minion might win. But we don't have any good measures yet anyway.\r\n\r\nFurther,
    as Hrant points out, the width and color of the type are also important variables.
    These may not be independent factors in readability, but interact with x-height/ascender-height
    ratios. "
  created: '2009-11-28 23:00:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There\u2019s no way you can equate \u201Cvertical proportions\u201D with
    \u201Ccap to x-height ratio\u201D as you did above. </em>\r\n\r\nI agree with
    Hrant, Nina, and Bill, that the relationship between ascender height and x-height
    is the most significant.\r\nHowever, that is NOT the way that x-height proportion
    is generally defined, e.g. TypoWiki:\r\n\r\n\"The x-height is measured as a proportion
    of the total cap height. A typeface is said to have a large x-height when the
    lowercase x is relatively tall compared to the capital X. A typeface is said to
    have a small x-height when the lowercase x is relatively short compared to the
    capital X.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-28 23:50:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm glad you changed your mind.\r\n\r\n> TypoWiki\r\n\r\nThat is a confused
    and misleading definition. Anybody who relies\r\non that definition will mess
    up important decisions within minutes.\r\nSomebody fix it please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 00:06:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, Nick, the x-height in a piece of metal is a fixed number, however many
    fractions of an inch or how many millimeters. When we go to digital type, because
    it is scalable, I think it is preferable to compare the x-height to the em. Then,
    for example, you can speak of how sizes of x-heights compare across fonts, and
    when they match in setting on one line. If you pin the comparison in relation
    to either the cap height or ascender height, you lose that. Also in the font itself
    the x-height is actually a number in units based on the em. So I think the Typowiki
    would better define size of x-height as percentage of the em, rather than the
    cap height. \r\n\r\nWhat do you all think?  "
  created: '2009-11-29 00:22:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem with defining x-height size in proportion to the EM (as intuitive
    as it might sound) is that it gives a font's size-on-body a deciding say on how
    big the x-height seems; if the font has a lot of talus (internal leading) the
    x-height will seem deceptively small, and vice versa.\r\n\r\nThis is a problem
    because a user can choose any point size and he often does this to compensate
    for a size-on-body that's too small or large; but a user cannot change a font's
    vertical proportions.\r\n\r\nSo talking about x-height with respect to extenders*
    really is the best compromise I think.\r\n\r\n* Which can be limited to ascenders
    since descenders are: usually predictably slightly shorter than ascenders; and
    most of all, rare in text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 00:40:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m glad you changed your mind.</em>\r\n\r\nAbout what?\r\nAs I
    said, Times is, among its many applications, a book face, and it has the same
    vertical proportions (cap to x-height) as Minion.\r\n\r\nIt may make more sense,
    in some respects, to consider x-height in relation to ascender height, but that
    doesn't alter the fact that in typography, x-height is pegged to cap height.\r\n\r\nAnd
    in practice, cap height is, I believe, more consistently pegged to em square.\r\nI
    haven't done the calculation, but I would imagine that if one measured the em-unit
    height of caps and ascenders in a dozen faces, the cap heights would be more consistent
    than the ascender heights.\r\n\r\nTherefore describing x-height in terms of cap
    height would give a better idea of absolute x-height at a given point size."
  created: '2009-11-29 09:35:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "When Times was conceived for the namesame newspaper that paper had a few
    things working for it: superior printing, much better paper than other papers,
    a much higher price (twice the average if I recall correctly \u2014 not that I
    am THAT old).\r\n\r\nHence the sharpish serifs, the fairly low contrast and the
    other features that set Times NR apart from contemporary typefaces. And then the
    evident conclusion that Times looks bad in other papers with their low grade paper
    and higher printingspeed & in consequence works very well when used in books (better
    paper, better printing).\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-11-29 11:51:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know that my local newspaper only switched from Corona to Times Roman back
    when they adopted improved printing processes in order to include color photographs
    on their pages. (They've since switched to something else.)\r\n\r\nAnd, yes, the
    Times of London was a very prestigious newspaper, not printed on the same kind
    of newsprint as most other newspapers. The copies I've seen were printed on white
    paper, but this could have been a special print run on paper that weighed less
    for shipment overseas.\r\n\r\nElsewhere in this thread, I am boggled by one poster
    admitting that the ratio of x-height to ascender height is more important than
    the ratio of x-height to cap height, even if the latter is the conventional definition
    of x-height... but also continuing to maintain that this in no wise contradicts
    his statement that, since the <strong>latter</strong> form of x-height is nearly
    equal between Minion and Times Roman, therefore it is invalid to categorize the
    former as more of a book face than the latter.\r\n\r\nI wasn't aware that the
    definition of a \"book face\" had to depend on the conventional definition of
    x-height even if an alternative view of that parameter was more typographically
    valid: it is unclear to me what reasoning this is based on.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't
    be averse to agreeing with statements that Times Roman is not all that bad as
    a book face, or that the difference between the x-height to ascender ratio between
    Times Roman and Minion is not all that large, but this specific argument seems
    to have a clear flaw in logic."
  created: '2009-11-29 12:21:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Therefore describing x-height in terms of cap height would give a better
    idea of absolute x-height at a given point size.\r\n\r\nNick, in digital fonts
    x-height is of course specified relative to the Em, and the Em is scalable. \r\n\r\nSo
    instead of a 'better idea' why not just use the x-height relative to the Em, as
    I suggested above, which gives a completely *exact* idea of the x-height at a
    given point size?\r\n\r\nThe x-height of Times Roman is 450 when the Em is 1000.
    And the x-height of Minion Regular is 438 on the same scale. That is a complete
    specification of the x-height. \r\n\r\nIf you want to discuss how it will set,
    and the readability in a given usage, then you need to look at other factors:
    length of ascenders, descenders, cap height, set width, color, and diacritics,
    depending on the use you are considering.\r\n\r\nThis is also my answer to you,
    Hrant. You are right that how small or large on the body matters, but so do all
    the other factors I mentioned. So we'd do better to express x-height as it is
    actually specified in a digital font: in proportion to the em. Everything else
    can be a bit misleading.  \r\n\r\nNote: After your input, I revised the TypoWiki
    to include the fact that in digital fonts the x-height is specified in Em units.
    \ "
  created: '2009-11-29 15:21:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the same old Nick.\r\n\r\n> Times ... has the same vertical proportions
    (cap to x-height) as Minion.\r\n\r\nAnd humans have the same vertical\r\nproportions
    (length to head size) as dogs.\r\n\r\n> in typography, x-height is pegged to cap
    height.\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nIf I edit a wiki, will you change how you work?\r\n\r\n>
    Therefore describing x-height in terms of cap height would\r\n> give a better
    idea of absolute x-height at a given point size.\r\n\r\nWhich, as I explained,
    is not nearly as useful as talking about\r\nthe relationship of x-height to ascender
    height. And you agreed.\r\n\r\nBTW, I heard Cirque du Soleil is looking for a
    Logic Contortionist.\r\n\r\n> The x-height of Times Roman is 450 when the em is
    1000.\r\n> And the x-height of Minion Regular is 438 on the same scale.\r\n> That
    is a complete specification of the x-height.\r\n\r\nNo, because it fails to include
    the one important reference point: the ascender height. The relevance of x-height
    size does not need to, and should not have to go through the trouble of combining
    two separate measures (the other being ascender-to-EM) to grasp what's really
    relevant.\r\n\r\nBTW, related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15367\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 15:31:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">No, because it fails to include the one important reference point: the ascender
    height. \r\n\r\nYes, because including that one factor leaves out others and is
    misleading. \r\n\r\nAscender height is *not* the only important factor relevant
    to how the type sets. So are cap height, descender length, and many other factors--in
    fact many more than I mentioned above. \r\n\r\nSo even though I agree that ascender
    height is the single most significant factor, the most accurate and least confusing
    is just to give x-height in Em units or as a percentage of the Em. "
  created: '2009-11-29 15:47:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> including that one factor leaves out others and is misleading.\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but to me it's still a much better compromise. And if you want a bigger picture
    nobody's stopping you from looking at other measures. It's just that essentially
    forcing people to do that sort of extra mental work just to get beyond a 95% idea
    of how big the x-height really is is wasteful.\r\n\r\nIt's like looking at a pangram
    to get an idea of a font. Sure, it's not\r\nenough to make a final decision, but
    it narrows things down very nicely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 15:55:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I wasn\u2019t aware that the definition of a \u201Cbook face\u201D had
    to depend on the conventional definition of x-height even if an alternative view
    of that parameter was more typographically valid: it is unclear to me what reasoning
    this is based on.</em>\r\n\r\nIt won't be typographically valid if typographers
    don't understand you.\r\nIn a meaningful discussion, the participants should all
    understand the terms involved to mean the same thing.\r\nSo it's logical to observe
    the conventional meanings of words, even if you think they don't make sense.\r\n\r\nYou
    proposed that a smaller x-height version of Times would be worthwhile, because
    \"book faces\" have small x-heights.\r\nI alerted you to the fact that they do
    not, according to the conventional understanding of what x-height is.\r\nI didn't
    make this up, or write the TypoWiki. I have been in the type business many years,
    in various capacities, and my understanding is that x-height is defined in terms
    of cap height. Of course, that may not be entirely logical, and one may work with
    a different understanding, but that doesn't alter reality.\r\n\r\nThere are cross
    purposes here.\r\nAs Hrant says, when comparing typeface design, it is useful
    to consider ascender length in assessing x-height.\r\nAs I say, when considering
    the absolute size of x-height a typographer will get from a particular font at
    a particular point size, it is useful to consider cap height.\r\nAs William says,
    if you really want to determine exact x-height, the number of em units will tell
    you."
  created: '2009-11-29 19:23:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In that case, the question is simply about my referring to the x-height of
    Times, rather than another related attribute of Times, as being a reason to class
    Times as not a book face: you were showing by this argument that I expressed myself
    wrongly, <em>not</em> that Times <em>really</em> has as much right to be considered
    a book face as Minion - because there are significant differences between Minion
    and Times in this respect, just not the one that <strong>I</strong> named.\r\n\r\nRight?"
  created: '2009-11-29 19:37:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is getting a bit confusing.\r\nI'm saying that Times is a book face
    through widespread usage as such, irrespective of its x-height, however that is
    defined or understood. \r\n\r\nThere is a typographic myth that Book Faces Have
    A Small x-Height, which is ironic, as there is also the convention that x-height
    is small or big in relation to cap height, which doesn't support the myth.\r\n\r\nIn
    previous threads on this topic, I recall some posters saying they have comfortably
    read whole books in ITC Garamond.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 20:10:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This is getting a bit confusing.\r\n\r\nI wonder why.\r\n\r\nNick, Times
    and Minion do not have similar vertical proportions; and as a result they do not
    have similar affinities in terms of how they're used. Period. A conveniently faulty
    wiki does that change that. And conveniently deluded typographers (assuming what
    you say is even true) don't make it OK to use such confused and misleading language
    here.\r\n\r\n> if you really want to determine exact x-height,\r\n> the number
    of em units will tell you.\r\n\r\nWho cares about the absolute units? The irrelevance
    of point size (which is flexible) compared to the huge relevance of a font's vertical
    proportions (which is inflexible) breaks the usefulness of basing necessarily
    relative measurements on the EM.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m saying that Times is a book
    face through widespread usage\r\n\r\nThere, it's finally out.\r\nAbsolute readability
    relativism rears its ugly head yet again.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 20:32:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Which, as I explained, is not nearly as useful as talking about\r\nthe
    relationship of x-height to ascender height. And you agreed.</em>\r\n\r\nSame
    old Hrant, misrepresenting to score points.\r\n\r\nWhat I said was \"significant\",
    not useful.\r\nIf we're talking theory, ascender height is significant. In practice,
    less so.\r\n\r\nTry this test: set two paragraphs with the same spec, one in Minion,
    one in Times.\r\nYou will be hard put to determine which has the larger x-height.\r\nNow
    suppose you say, \"well, Minion has 8% taller ascenders, therefore I will reduce
    the Minion setting by half a point size for a more accurate comparison, and now
    Minion has a smaller x-height.\" Well duh, you made it smaller, so of course it
    now has a smaller x-height!\r\nWith regard to ascender height in this comparative
    setting, the typographer would be more inclined to say that the ascenders of either
    face are too long or too short with regards to the leading, or the mise-en-page.
    \r\n\r\nUltimately, ascenders are long or short in comparison to x-height, not
    the other way round.\r\nBecause x-height is the most apparent vertical dimension
    of a typeface.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 20:50:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There, it\u2019s finally out.\r\nAbsolute readability relativism rears
    its ugly head yet again.</em>\r\n\r\nFinally? That's what I've been saying all
    along.\r\nYes, I believe in \"Readability Relativism\". New shoes take time to
    wear in, no matter how ugly the old ones.\r\n\r\nBook designers specify Times
    for text because they like the way it looks and reads.\r\nPublishers and distributors
    report no adverse sales effects.\r\nReaders don't have a problem with the face.\r\nIn
    fact, they wouldn't buy a mass market paperback if it was set in a \"book face\",
    because it would look too much like hard work to read. Book faces connote literary
    content, and they want easy language. This is a cultural dimension of readability
    that doesn't appear in any of the lab research, which is generally done with college
    students (correct me if I'm wrong)."
  created: '2009-11-29 21:08:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> In fact, they wouldn\u2019t buy a mass market paperback if it was set in
    a \u201Cbook face\u201D, because it would look too much like hard work to read.\r\n\r\nI
    know what you're trying to say, and generally speaking it is true for the most
    part - after all, there were people who thought Fraktur was readable - I do have
    a quibble here.\r\n\r\nMass market paperbacks set in Caledonia instead of Times
    Roman don't seem to have any problem selling. I will admit that Jenson Oldstyle
    might scare people away, and Caslon is much too unfashionable.\r\n\r\nCorgi, a
    British paperback publisher, has used Plantin and other book faces (IIRC, even
    Bembo) in books which were aimed at the great unwashed (having been written by
    an Englishman who claimed his body was taken over by a Tibetan after he fell out
    of a tree) without apparent harm as well."
  created: '2009-11-29 21:51:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, you're not fooling anybody. The most you're\r\ndoing is confusing people,
    but I guess that's the\r\nbest alternative to fully exposing a deep illogic.\r\n\r\n>
    If we\u2019re talking theory, ascender height is significant. In practice, less
    so.\r\n\r\nWhat a load of bunk.\r\n\r\nYour test is the sort of naive thing only
    the shallowest of typographers would perform. First of all, a font's x-height
    is certainly not the only player in apparent size. But also, if two fonts have
    the same absolute x-height but one's ascenders are taller, you need more leading;
    and that puts pressure on the vertical proportions, hence the point size. All
    these dimensions are linked, and cap height is one of the very smallest factors.
    You're allowing a font's size-on-body to completely throw off any valid evaluation.
    So your comparison is nearly totally useless, and no decent typographer would
    be \"hard put\" to realize that Times and Minion are not similar in vertical proportions,
    which is what you said, and I objected to.\r\n\r\n* BTW, now you've quietly dropped
    the cap height reference?\r\n\r\n> ascenders are long or short in comparison to
    x-height\r\n\r\nSure - same difference! The point is, caps are far less relevant.
    You admitted this once before, but then found a convenient weasel hole in the
    wiki.\r\n\r\nRepeat: saying Times and Minion have very similar <em>vertical proportions</em>
    is completely false. If you're strong enough to admit that, you would save yourself
    a lot of contrived logic, not to mention a lot of typing!\r\n\r\n> Book designers
    specify Times for text\r\n> because they like the way it looks and reads.\r\n\r\nComplete
    hogwash. Most book designers who specify Times\r\nshould not even be designing
    a toilet paper dispenser.\r\n\r\n> Publishers and distributors report no adverse
    sales effects.\r\n> Readers don\u2019t have a problem with the face.\r\n\r\nYou
    know no such thing - there are no reference points!\r\nThis is pure, baseless
    fabrication.\r\n\r\nThe fact that readability research has been so flawed does
    not give you license to believe things that tickle your artistic fancy. The truth
    is, you would rather nobody ever did any readability research.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the ridiculous, inhuman belief that we can read in any font just as well if we
    simply spend enough time reading in it, I would rather just refer to the archives.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 01:30:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: ">> Book designers specify Times for text\r\n>> because they like the way
    it looks and reads.\r\n\r\n> Complete hogwash. Most book designers who specify
    Times\r\n> should not even be designing a toilet paper dispenser.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know if I can really dispute that statement. After all, a lot of books do simply
    use Times Roman by default, without much thought being put into their design.\r\n\r\nBut
    I will at least point out that Times Roman has been used in some very well-designed
    books. The Codebrakers by David Kahn, from Macmillan impressed me very favorably
    with how Times Roman looks when used well. (They did get the chapter heading for
    the chapter titled \"Russkaya Kriptologia\" badly mangled, even though the italic
    page headings were right... nobody's perfect.)\r\n\r\n>> Publishers and distributors
    report no adverse sales effects.\r\n>> Readers don\u2019t have a problem with
    the face.\r\n\r\n> You know no such thing - there are no reference points!\r\n>
    This is pure, baseless fabrication.\r\n\r\nIt's true that he is being... anecdotal.
    However, I think that it can be safely said that except for the few who take an
    interest in such things, most people don't pay much attention to fonts.\r\n\r\nIf
    a book is set in Univers or Optima, people will notice that it's trying to be
    \"contemporary\", so that usually happens in books on art and design.\r\n\r\nIf
    a book is set in one of the condensed Scotch Romans from the 19th Century - or
    even in the vastly superior Binney & Ronaldson Oldstyle, they'll notice it's old
    fashioned.\r\n\r\n\"Typeset\" the book on an IBM Executive typewriter, and they'll
    notice there's something fishy right away.\r\n\r\nOtherwise - Bembo, Palatino,
    Times Roman, Caledonia, Baskerville, Century Expanded... if the responsible parties
    have made a reasonable effort to choose a halfway-decent serif font, and an appropriate
    point size given the font's x-height, a column width not stupendously long, and
    a little leading if necessary... and they will just go off merrily reading without
    noticing the effort that has been made on their behalf.\r\n\r\nWhatever may be
    wrong with Times Roman, I strongly doubt that it is so seriously wrong as to percolate
    into the consciousness of the general public. It would indeed be kind of nice
    if Times with long descenders were seen more often - given that 12 point Times
    on a computer is 10 1/2 point Times with 1 1/2 points leading or thereabouts <em>anyways</em>,
    it's not as if we would have broken kerns falling out of our laser printers -
    but I think someone could set a mass-market paperback in Corona with hardly anyone
    noticing anything was amiss."
  created: '2009-11-30 01:58:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> most people don\u2019t pay much attention to fonts.\r\n\r\nMost certainly
    true. But it is the job of a text face designer to\r\ndesign not for the consciousness,
    but for the subconscious.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, for the record: I've edited the
    wiki for \"x-height\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 02:10:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Most certainly true. But it is the job of a text face designer to\r\n>
    design not for the consciousness, but for the subconscious.\r\n\r\nYes, it is
    true that people don't have to be directly interested in or aware of fonts to
    be affected positively when a printed page is a thing of beauty.\r\n\r\nBut when
    a response is subconscious and not explicit, that also means we're dealing with
    something that isn't out in the open, and that means - as one would expect when
    the subject is aesthetics, in any case - that we're dealing with something likely
    to be subjective rather than objective.\r\n\r\nI think that Times Roman can be,
    and has been, a contributing part of many beautiful pages of text. It does have
    design limitations - so it is unsuited to the kind of typography where one would
    want Centaur instead - and it has been misused, as can happen to any font. Times,
    optically condensed by 10%, is something that deserves the kind of obloquy you
    appear to be hurling at the font in general. But all of this is just my personal
    taste, and you therefore do not have to account for why your taste may differ
    from mine - nor I for why mine differs from yours."
  created: '2009-11-30 06:02:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For the record, I haven't said anything nasty in this thread about Times.
    In fact its only major negative for me is its over-use, so nothing to do with
    its technical [un]suitability for book setting. Furthermore, its particular vertical
    proportions (shared BTW by Georgia and my own Patria*) make it useful in a certain
    type of setting. That said, I do think there's a way to increase its versatility
    in this age: reduce its contrast and increase its weight; basically thicken the
    thins. It could also be made slightly wider. BTW, this would not necessarily reduce
    its economy, as I explained in my Daidala interview - do a Find for \"economy\"
    here:\r\nhttp://daidala.com/25apr2004.html\r\n\r\n* Which was not pre-planned,
    honestly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 06:42:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant said (all one post):\r\n\r\n<em>...you\u2019re not fooling anybody.
    The most you\u2019re doing is confusing people, What a load of bunk...\r\nYour
    test is the sort of naive thing only the shallowest of typographers would perform.
    So your comparison is nearly totally useless...\r\nYou admitted this once before,
    but then found a convenient weasel hole in the wiki...\r\nIf you\u2019re strong
    enough to admit that, you would save yourself a lot of contrived logic... \r\nComplete
    hogwash. \LThis is pure, baseless fabrication...\r\n.... does not give you license
    to believe things that tickle your artistic fancy... \r\nThe truth is, you would
    rather....\r\nConcerning the ridiculous, inhuman belief... </em>\r\n\r\nAn impressive
    display of personal invective."
  created: '2009-11-30 07:09:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I do think there\u2019s a way to increase its versatility in this age:
    reduce its contrast and increase its weight; basically thicken the thins. It could
    also be made slightly wider. </em>\r\n\r\nI did that in with <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/beaufort.html\">Beaufort</a>
    (1999).\r\nIt has been used as a book face, quite large, by Harlequin.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 07:15:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You insult what I love about this craft - I defend it, by means\r\nthat I
    feel have the best chance of working. It's not about you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 07:21:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm sorry to see the self-righteous character assassination has started again.\r\nI
    had hoped you'd moved on."
  created: '2009-11-30 09:18:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, I agree more with you (and with Kevin Larson) that readability is
    not simply familiarity, but something more objective as well. \r\n\r\nBut what
    is the point of the invective? Nick is entitled to his opinions, and to respect,
    right or wrong. Your invective spoils the case you want to make. "
  created: '2009-11-30 13:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Being clinical about this spoils the case I want to make.\r\n\r\nBut clearly
    seeming clinical about this helps some people\r\nmaintain their veneer of expertise.
    Nick, move on? You mean\r\nbecome like you? As long as there are people who want
    to cast\r\nthis craft as mere art, and use language as a tool of deceit to\r\ndo
    so, I will have to maintain this role. It's not self-righteous,\r\nit's out of
    love for something that cannot defend itself.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSaying that Times
    and Minion have similar vertical proportions\r\nis not OK, and reveals a deep
    confusion that should be cleared,\r\nnot least among people here still learning
    the basics. And writing\r\nup a convoluted, illogical storm to distract people
    from realizing\r\nall this is not acceptable to me - I cannot simply watch it
    happen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 14:53:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think one thing this thread has established is that existing terminologies
    and definitions are at the very least, confusing. A part of that is that there
    obviously is more than one factor/element to this complex equation, and we obviously
    can't change that. But maybe better words can help untangle this.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    how about distinguishing \"vertical <em>proportions</em>\" (inherently relative:
    how does say x-ht relate to asc height) from \"vertical <em>metrics</em>\" (which
    could be taken to mean x [or other elements] to the em)? Is this commonly done?\r\nMaybe
    we could even find something like <em>\"absolute\"</em> vs. <em>\"relative</em>
    x-height\" to talk about, the former being compared to the em, the latter to the
    extenders (sorry Nick, I'm still not seeing how cap height could possibly be relevant
    here). Which would be related to Hrant's \"Depth\" term."
  created: '2009-11-30 15:08:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not seeing how cap height could possibly be relevant\r\n\r\nNina, Cap height
    is relevant because it affects how closely you can lead lines that have a lot
    of caps, such as in classified ads, notices of performances, etc, and anything
    with a lot of proper names. Also large caps may be more of an issue in setting
    German vs English. The height of numbers can also be relevant. You can get away
    with tighter leading with only ascenders because they are fewer. But if you also
    have a lot of caps, and they are unusually tall, such as Adobe Caslon, then it's
    more of a constraint. \r\n\r\nAll this is why I still think that the best thing
    is just to give the x-height as a percentage of the em. Then you can separately
    talk about other ratios: x-height to ascenders, caps, etc, as needed depending
    on the point you want to make. \r\n\r\nTerminology is not right or wrong, it's
    convenient or inconvenient, clear or confusing. Defining x-height as relative
    to the em is certainly more clear, and that's a big advantage. \r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of 'absolute' x-height is confusing because in digital type there is no such thing.
    Speaking of 'relative x-height' raises the question: relative to what? You may
    want to discuss any number of relations--x-height to overshoot, to ascenders,
    to caps, etc., so to be clear you need to specify further. \r\n\r\nTrying to restrict
    the meaning of 'relative x-height' to caps or ascenders or bounding box just adds
    needless confusion, it seems to me. \r\n\r\nAlso why not just \"call it what it
    is\". In digital type, the x-height is specified in em units, end of story. If
    you want to talk about other ratios, then say what ratio--it only takes two words
    to be clear--and go merrily along. "
  created: '2009-11-30 15:30:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: '[sry double post]'
  created: '2009-11-30 15:42:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Defining x-height as relative to the em is certainly more clear\"</cite>\r\nFor
    the purpose of talking about how large the x-height will appear on the page at
    a given point size, yes. But for the purpose of discussing optimal x-height as
    a <em>design feature of a font</em>,* and its effects, what's relevant is how
    the x-ht compares to other factors.\r\n* It changes the \"nature\" of a type design
    much less if every glyph is scaled to be proportionally bigger on the em (thereby
    changing \"your\" definition of x-ht) than if the extenders are lengthened or
    shortened (thereby changing the relative definition of x-ht to ascender).\r\n\r\nAnd
    of course, in this thread, the point of why x-height came up in the first place
    was the latter: Relative x-height as an aspect of the design.\r\n\r\n(And of course
    I realize cap height is more relevant for say German than English, but I still
    think its relevance to reading (and typesetting) pales in comparison to the ascenders
    in terms of sheer frequency.)"
  created: '2009-11-30 15:44:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, this is about you:\r\nYou derogate the artistry in type design, because
    you are not an artist.\r\nYou misrepresent the culture of commercial typographers,
    because you have no practical experience in it.\r\n\r\nSo I'm duty-bound to protect
    the tradition of the type craft from people like you (sound familiar?)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    apart from the peculiar circumstances of this one post, I don't believe that gives
    me the right to discredit your arguments with ad hominem attacks, and justify
    that by casting myself in a heroic role--which is what self-righteous means. "
  created: '2009-11-30 23:37:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nina, about cap height, I wondered:\r\n\r\nWhich is the most consistent means
    of comparing the x-heights of different typefaces?\r\n\r\nTo answer this question,
    the x-heights of thirteen Regular fonts were measured:\r\nAldus, Bembo, Dolly,
    Electra, ITC Garamond, Gentium, Minion, Nimrod, Perpetua, Scala, Scotch Modern,
    Times, and Utopia. These were chosen to represent a variety of text styles, with
    variety of x-height-on-em, and variety of ascender overshoot above cap height.\r\n\r\nThen
    the values of their x-heights were calculated three ways:\r\n(1) % of em,  (2)
    % of cap height, (3) % of ascender height.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Minion:\r\n(1)
    43.4, (2) 66.8, (3) 61.1\r\nand Times:\r\n(1) 44.7, (2) 67.6, (3) 64.4\r\n\r\nThe
    standard deviation amongst these three groups, for 13 fonts, was:\r\n(1) 4.4,
    (2) 4.5, (3) 4.3\r\n\r\nFrom this I conclude that the three methods have similar
    consistency.\r\nIn other words, a typeface with a small x-height according to
    one method will have a comparably small x-height in another method. For purposes
    of comparison it doesn't matter that the \"% of cap height\" method ignores the
    effect of ascender overshoot on x-height proportion.\r\n\r\nBut what of x-height
    appearances at specific point sizes? \r\n\r\nNext the em-square percentage was
    used as a benchmark, assuming that this represents the \"actual\" height a font's
    x-height will appear at a given point size, and the difference was calculated
    between this value and each font's x-height as first (a) % of cap height, and
    then (b) % of ascender height.\r\n\r\nSo, the difference between \"actual\" x-height
    and (a), then (b), \r\nfor Minion: 23.4 and 16.7\r\nfor Times: 22.9 and 19.7\r\netc.\r\n\r\nNext
    all values of (a) and (b) were totaled, and the standard deviation calculated:\r\nFor
    (a) 3.3, (b) 2.9\r\n\r\nVery close, within half a percentage point. Again, I conclude
    that the amount a font's ascenders overshoot cap height has no bearing on whether
    one compares x-height as a percentage of cap height or of ascender height. To
    repeat: if a font has a small x-height in one method, it has a comparably small
    x-height in another. \r\n\r\nThe advantage of the cap height method is that X
    compared with x gives a stronger visual indication of cap-height line and median
    line than, say, l and x. The letter x was chosen because it suggests the median
    line."
  created: '2009-12-01 00:01:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The standard deviation amongst these three groups, for 13 fonts, was:\r\n>
    (1) 4.4, (2) 4.5, (3) 4.3\r\n> From this I conclude that the three methods have
    similar consistency.\r\n\r\nThat's an entirely unsound conclusion, because it
    doesn't account for which direction the deviation is for a given font.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    why are you using Standard Deviation? Typographers choose fonts, and  a given
    font is one unique case. It's almost like you're saying Times and ITC Garamond
    have similar vertical proportions!\r\n\r\n> Next all values of (a) and (b) were
    totaled, and\r\n> the standard deviation calculated:\r\n> For (a) 3.3, (b) 2.9\r\n>
    Very close, within half a percentage point.\r\n\r\n?\r\nThis conclusion also makes
    no sense.\r\n\r\nAnyway, there are more than 13 fonts out there. What you describe
    obviously does not work for fonts with short caps (which are not at all rare these
    days). No obfuscating math is needed to figure that out.\r\n\r\nWhy use an inferior
    method, even if you might get lucky with it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 02:22:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not going to debate your comments, as you don't understand the premise
    of this analysis.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 02:44:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have a Math minor - specialization: Numerical Analysis. Not that most people
    need any such background to grasp that some rudimentary averaging* is useless
    when comparing individual fonts. You need only the most basic math. The difference
    in vertical proportions between Times and Minion is about 3%. That's 30 units
    in an Em of 1000. I don't know about you, but when I define my vertical proportions,
    I worry about units in the single digits. Furthermore, and this is just as significant,
    the difference in widths seems to be about double that. Ergo: the two fonts do
    not have similar proportions. And you need <em>no</em> math at all to see this
    - one simply needs to look.\r\n\r\n* Hey, remember when you harped on Raph for
    using math\r\nto understand fonts? Except his work was computationally\r\ncomprehensive
    and methodologically sound.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 03:30:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But anyway all this is moot, right? Because with time we can\r\nread text
    in FF Extra just as well as text in Minion, right?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nReprising
    something that was avoided earlier:\r\n> it is now understood that he swiped the
    design from\r\n> Starling Burgess and Victor Lardent did all the work.\r\n\r\nCan
    you either retract this or back it up? Saying \"it is now\r\nunderstood\" is a
    mischaracterization to the point of fallacy.\r\n\r\nAn apparent dislike of Morison
    (hey, I'm no big fan myself)\r\ndoes not make it OK to be conveniently unfair
    to his legacy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 03:43:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If you're so math savvy, please deal with the subject. It's spelled out in
    the question at the beginning.\r\n\r\nThis is not about comparing two fonts using
    the same x-height definition, or by eye.\r\nIt's about calculating which system
    of x-height definition -- percentage of em, percentage of cap height, percentage
    of ascender height -- is the most consistent over a number of fonts.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that knowledge desirable in assessing systems of x-height definition?\r\nTypographers
    have to deal with many potential candidates, as you stress.\r\nIf one system had
    significantly more or less standard deviation, then it could be inferred that
    there was a difference in accuracy. But the way it stands, for the most significant
    figures -- where the standard deviations are 3.3% and 2.9% -- there is only a
    .4% difference, which corresponds to 4 units of em.\r\n\r\nWhat makes you think
    that increasing the sample, or changing its members, would impact the outcome
    significantly?\r\nBear in mind that there are already four short cap fonts in
    the sample: Aldus, Bembo, Dolly and Gentium.\r\n\r\n*Re Raph, was that when he
    was scanning and blending letterpress outlines? Or when he was popquizzing which
    waveforms were more attractive? I questioned the aesthetic validity of both those.
    As for Fourier transforms, interesting stuff in theory, but again, better to rely
    on one's eyes to appreciate text colour. \r\n\r\nAs you are no doubt aware, I
    think the best way to set type is to try many fonts in a layout, play with size,
    leading etc., and work out what looks to be the best design solution. Not much
    theory there. I don't believe that by pursuing numeric analysis of x-heights I'm
    contradicting my preference for using taste as the arbiter of design decisions.
    This is pure research--whether x height is better defined in terms of cap height
    or x-height has no bearing on whether one chooses Times or Minion, and how much
    leading you give them, because one will try both, with various leading, and see
    which is most readable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 04:35:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Can you either retract this or back it up?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm convinced
    by Mike Parker's theory.\r\nAnd I suspect it has a lot of currency, having been
    promoted by Font Bureau in its Starling typeface material.\r\nBut you're right,
    there is no way of knowing what the general consensus is.\r\nAs for Lardent doing
    all the work, that's well-known enough, isn't it?"
  created: '2009-12-01 04:46:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) The data shows that Times and Minion do not have similar vertical proportions.
    Not among people who worry about single units in a space of 1000 (or sometimes
    even 2048).\r\n\r\n2) Any analysis that goes against the basic realization that
    5% of text cannot have the same relevance as 95% of text is flawed analysis. Specifically
    here, your conclusion that x-to-cap is just as good as x-to-ascender cannot be
    arrived at from any Standard Deviation calculation. The results of such calculations
    cannot be applied to gauge specific fonts. This is critical because typographers
    do not make decisions based on aggregate statistics, and rightly so. Typographers
    need to figure out, for example, whether Times and Minion have comparable proportions.
    If they look at x-to-cap to do this, they will be confused; their results will
    be inferior; they will be poor typographers.\r\n\r\n> there is no way of knowing
    what the general consensus is.\r\n\r\nIn fact from what I've seen, most people\r\ndon't
    believe Parker's Burgess connection.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 05:01:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Typographers need to figure out, for example, whether Times and Minion
    have comparable proportions. If they look at x-to-cap to do this, they will be
    confused;</em>\r\n\r\nWhy? Both x-to-ascender and x-to-cap calculations show that
    these two faces have comparable proportions within the group of 13. In other words,
    their values are close to the mean, less than the standard deviation. (Although
    I didn't mention the mean values in my 4:01 post, it does show that the difference
    between these fonts is less than the standard deviation for the whole group.)
    This is not to say that the difference between them isn't significant, it's just
    not big. So that's one conclusion that can be drawn from the data, that these
    are two faces with \"average\" x-height, however measured. \r\n\r\nBut the purpose
    of the exercise wasn't head-to-head font comparisons, it was to analyze the quality
    of different methods of calculating x-height, as applied to a large set of fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 09:03:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick (since you addressed that to me)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"It's about calculating
    which system of x-height definition \u2014 percentage of em, percentage of cap
    height, percentage of ascender height \u2014 is the most consistent over a number
    of fonts\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWell previously, the discussion was about which \"system
    of x-height definition\" makes the most sense. :-\\\r\nThe idea that it statistically
    doesn't make a huge difference whether one chooses to compare x-height to cap
    or asc height, or to the em, doesn't nullify the relevance of the logical (and
    actually, practically relevant) difference in choosing one definition over the
    others.\r\nAnd I'd agree with Hrant that a difference of 3%, in this discipline,
    really sounds like way too much for the results of this little investigation to
    be all that significant.\r\n\r\nIf you're so sure that x-height, per se, doesn't
    matter too much, just say so. Switching gears from jumbled logic to empirical
    analysis, and then again to broad statements of typographer-centric relativism,
    doesn't exactly enforce your point."
  created: '2009-12-01 09:05:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm not making a point, I'm sharing the results of some statistical analysis,
    which I undertook out of curiosity, not to prove a point.\r\nThe results weren't
    what I expected.\r\n\r\nAnd what's wrong with putting a fence between pure research
    and practice? Theory can too easily become dogma.\r\n\r\n3% is a lot when you're
    designing a typeface, trying to hit the sweet spot. But not so much when you're
    comparing fonts.\r\nComparing Times and Minion, they are remarkably similar at
    the same spec, in terms of copy-fit and proportion. Times is a bit stronger, due
    to its thicker strokes and more contrasty fit, more so than its larger x-height
    (1.3% of em bigger). So to get a similar heft of text block, you would drop the
    Times point size, say from 12 to 11.8. The difference in ascender length doesn't
    come into play after adding a couple of points leading--it's such a negligible
    proportion of that amount.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that x-height is unimportant,
    but for comparing average x-height types like these, where the difference in their
    x-height is so small however it's measured, it doesn't matter too much."
  created: '2009-12-01 10:15:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Hey, why don't you two just acquire a pair of duelling pistols and have done
    with it?\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-12-01 12:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Both x-to-ascender and x-to-cap calculations show that these\r\n> two faces
    have comparable proportions within the group of 13.\r\n\r\nNot really - that's
    a false conclusion.\r\n\r\n> Times and Minion ... are remarkably similar\r\n\r\nNick,
    don't you realize this doesn't befit a type designer?\r\n\r\nFor one thing, if
    that were true, why would anybody buy your fonts?\r\nIt's telling that most people
    don't buy fonts; to them 3% is nothing.\r\nBut there are enough people that care
    about things that seem tiny for\r\nyou to stay in business. And there's a lot
    more than 3% difference\r\nbetween staying in business and not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 15:07:50'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Hope this is not too off topic\r\n\r\nTimes has lots of faults which have
    been dealt with extensively\r\nelsewhere. But it can still look great\r\n\r\nhttp://www.seedconference.com/seed.php"
  created: '2009-12-01 15:40:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not really - that\u2019s a false conclusion.</em>\r\n\r\nIn this statistical
    comparison, it states that values within the standard deviation are comparable.\r\nThat's
    a true conclusion, based on the data.\r\n\r\nBased on the same data, the four
    short cap fonts in the sample fall outside the standard deviation, as do the \"news\"
    fonts, Nimrod and Utopia.\r\n\r\n<em>Times and Minion ... are remarkably similar...</em>\r\n\r\n\"...at
    the same spec...in terms of copy fit and proportion.\"\r\n\r\nWhy don't you include
    the whole sentence, or would that upset your argument?\r\n\r\nMy conclusion, after
    looking at the data, is that Minion and Times have x-heights that are close to
    the average, to the extent that x-height is a minor consideration when assessing
    their relative merits--other factors are far more important, such as the relative
    sharpness of Times' serifs, and the heaviness of the horizontally-stressed stroke
    on lower case \"e \" and \"c\". \r\n\r\nAlso, it seems to me that you are underestimating
    the significance of ascender overshoot with regards to cap height.\r\nCertainly,
    capitals occur far less frequently than ascenders in U&lc text, but cap-lowercase
    sequences such as T_h and W_h play a huge role in determining the personality
    of a typeface, in English.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick, don\u2019t you realize this doesn\u2019t
    befit a type designer?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat would really befit a type designer is
    avoiding being dragged into the mud in a Typophile discussion with Hrant Papazian,
    which most have the good sense to do.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 20:09:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> x-height is a minor consideration when assessing their relative merits\r\n\r\nMaybe.\r\nBut
    their vertical proportions are not similar, to a good type designer.\r\nAnd -going
    back to the origins of this discussion- vertical proportions\r\nremain central
    to a proper evaluation of the bookishness of a typeface.\r\n\r\n> personality\r\n\r\nEntirely
    moot in this discussion.\r\n\r\nBut: Are you now saying that sequences of x-height
    and ascending letters\r\n(like \"fi\") don't contribute much to a font's personality?
    Mud? More like\r\nquicksand. Thrashing doesn't help.\r\n\r\nBTW, it remains that
    you are the only person in my 12 years online\r\nwho has requested that I not
    participate in threads he has started.\r\nAnd I honor that request.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 20:34:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...vertical proportions remain central to a proper evaluation of the
    bookishness of a typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think so.\r\nAnd that is a conclusion
    supported by my statistical analysis.\r\nUsing your preferred definition of x-height,
    classic book faces that I measured such as Aldus (56%), Bembo (59%), and Perpetua
    (56%) do indeed have low values, but there are other perfectly serviceable book
    faces with \"normal\" x-heights, such as Dolly (61%), Minion (61%) and Scala (61%).
    And this distinction is reinforced by the calculation of a Standard Deviation.
    How do you explain that? \r\nWhat would constitute, in your opinion, a convincing
    sample group of text faces, and where would you draw the line between bookish
    and non-bookish?\r\n\r\nI suspect that one's selection of text faces might skew
    the results, depending on whether one included faces such as Utopia (66%) in the
    sample group.\r\n\r\nWhat do you make of ITC Century Book (68%)? It is not a classic
    book face, but it is named and published as a book face and many books are printed
    in it. Are they all garbage?\r\n\r\n<em>Are you now saying that sequences of x-height
    and ascending letters (like \u201Cfi\u201D) don\u2019t contribute much to a font\u2019s
    personality?</em>\r\n\r\nI said that the combinations T_h and W_h contribute a
    lot to the personality of types. That's where ascender overshoot is most noticeable,
    and I assume that typographers use mental images of these combinations to help
    conceptualize, categorize and remember typefaces. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 21:16:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> What do you make of ITC Century Book (68%)? It is not a\r\n> classic book
    face, but it is named and published as a \r\n> book face and many books are printed
    in it. Are they all \r\n> garbage?\r\n\r\nI don't know if the line between classic
    book faces and other faces is really drawn between Minion and Times Roman.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I wouldn't call Della Robbia or Typo Upright book faces either, so I'll definitely
    agree that proportions relative to x-height can be dwarfed in importance by other
    factors (which usually aren't varied for non-display faces as much, though).\r\n\r\nIf
    I believe the statements\r\n\r\n\"Minion is a valid example of a classic book
    face.\"\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\n\"Times Roman varies sufficiently in its proportions
    from Minion that it does not quite qualify as a classic book face.\"\r\n\r\nthat
    does not imply that I have to think that books set in Times Roman, Utopia, or
    even Corona are \"garbage\".\r\n\r\nCorona and Antique Olive can be quite readable.
    If someone sets a book in Corona - and at least remembers to use leading - I might
    be somewhat dismayed that he seemed to have used whatever happened to be lying
    around inside his Linotype at the time, but slightly substandard typography isn't
    going to make me sneer too loudly at a book if I find its content valuable.\r\n\r\nPeople
    should care about typography. But you can care about something and still keep
    it in perspective."
  created: '2009-12-01 22:39:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Utopia (66%)\r\n\r\nTellingly, Utopia is a newspaper face.\r\nTimes BTW
    is ~68%. And Minion is ~62%.\r\nSo my initial measurement was way off,\r\nin your
    favor however.\r\n\r\nBut anyway you don't believe vertical proportions are a
    big deal in\r\nevaluating whether a font is fit for a book or not... This, BTW,
    even\r\nthough you wrote:\r\n\"Times has almost the same vertical proportions
    (cap to x-height ratio)\r\nas Minion, a face that has become quite popular and
    respected for book\r\nand text work in general.\"\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t know if
    the line between classic book faces and\r\n> other faces is really drawn between
    Minion and Times Roman.\r\n\r\nSame here. In fact Minion is a bit too large on
    the body for that.\r\nSo it can work for a book at slightly smaller sizes, but
    it would\r\nbe more versatile (for book work, but tellingly not overall*) if it\r\nwere
    slightly narrower and had a smaller x-height.\r\n\r\n* Noting that Adobe has historically
    liked to please the most people.\r\n\r\nGary, I also find Times formally attractive
    - like a nice building, or ship.\r\nBut to me that actually confirms one of my
    axioms: that a true text font\r\nmust necessarily look at least a little bit ungainly
    when viewed large.\r\nThis is because scale has a very large say in how letterforms
    look and work.\r\nSo in effect Times is too much of a display face to do the heavy
    lifting of\r\nextended reading. Minion is far less so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-01 23:25:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Times BTW is ~68%. And Minion is ~62%</em>.\r\n\r\nTimes: x-height 916,
    ascender height 1422, percentage:  64\r\nMinion: x-height 434, ascender height
    710, percentage: 61\r\n\r\nTimes: x-height 916, cap height 1356, percentage: 68\r\nMinion:
    x-height 434, cap height 650, percentage: 67\r\n\r\n<em>But anyway you don\u2019t
    believe vertical proportions are a big deal in\r\nevaluating whether a font is
    fit for a book or not... This, BTW, even\r\nthough you wrote:\r\n\u201CTimes has
    almost the same vertical proportions (cap to x-height ratio)\r\nas Minion, a face
    that has become quite popular and respected for book\r\nand text work in general.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    your point? I was pointing out that if one accepts Minion as a book face, then
    one should not discount Times as a book face because of its x-height.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 04:02:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My calculations were based on your graphic of November 27. Was that flawed?
    BTW, I think your ascender numbers are not taking overshoot into account; so the
    absolute ascender numbers should be lowered (thus increasing the percentage difference).
    And more significantly the head serifs in Times (like at the top of the \"el\")
    are steeper than the ones in Minion, so the ascender value for Minion should be
    lowered less than the one for Times, thus (further) increasing the percentage
    difference.\r\n\r\nAnyway, 3% is still significant (I'm dismissing the x-to-cap
    codswallop) especially when coupled to the width difference. I think in practice
    you secretly agree, because I really can't imagine that when determining your
    fonts' proportions once you come within <strong>30 units</strong> you say: \"Yeah,
    close enough, whatever.\"\r\n\r\nThe thing is, I don't grasp why you're nitpicking
    this point, since you've already stated that Times is really a more readable font
    than Minion -presumably for any kind of setting- simply because it's seen by readers
    much more frequently. Proportions, shroportions, right? BTW, do you tell your
    potential customers this sort of thing? I mean, you might be forgiven for not
    volunteering such insight when a juicy payment is imminent, but if somebody asks
    you point-blank \"Is this as readable than Times?\" I guess you just <em>have</em>
    to say: \"Not even close! This font was just released last month. It would have
    to be the default MS Word font for two decades to become as readable as Times!\"\r\n\r\n>
    What\u2019s your point?\r\n\r\nMy point is that you can't combine:\r\n- Times
    is a book face because it shares vertical\r\nproportions with Minion, an \"uncontested\"*
    book face,\r\nAND\r\n- vertical proportions are not central to bookishness.\r\n\r\nYou
    honestly don't see this?\r\n\r\n* After all, the Mage of Canada used it for his
    Bible!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 05:11:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>My calculations were based on your graphic of November 27. </em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    sloppy, working from a screen grab.\r\nMy calculations are derived from the digital
    font BCP coordinates. \r\nDon't you have Times and Minion on your hard drive?\r\n\r\n<em>the
    head serifs in Times (like at the top of the \u201Cel\u201D) are steeper than
    the ones in Minion</em>\r\n\r\nSo, you admit another problem with the ascender
    method -- the need to make a subjective decision as to where the \"optical extreme\"
    of the terminal is.\r\n\r\n<em>since you\u2019ve already stated that Times is
    really a more readable font than Minion</em>\r\n\r\nWhat makes you draw such bizarre
    conclusions?\r\nDo you honestly think you can pass \"Readability Relativists\"
    off as absolutists?!\r\n\r\n<em>My point is that you can\u2019t combine:\r\n-
    Times is a book face because it shares vertical\r\nproportions with Minion, an
    \u201Cuncontested\u201D* book face,\r\nAND\r\n- vertical proportions are not central
    to bookishness.</em>\r\n\r\nLogic Hrant, logic.\r\nIf a and b are both members
    of set c, it doesn't follow that a = b!"
  created: '2009-12-02 06:04:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I trust your raw numbers - I don't need to dig up a copy of Minion.\r\nBut
    I do think that image of yours might be a bit off.\r\n\r\n> the need to make a
    subjective decision\r\n\r\nIs this Nick Shinn talking?!\r\n\r\nAnyway it's not
    that subjective. And even if we would put the optical line a slightly different
    place, my point was that at the very least you can admit that the more slanted
    the top (like in Times) the lower the optical line is. This increases the difference
    between Times and Minion.\r\n\r\n> What makes you draw such bizarre conclusions?\r\n\r\n?\r\nYou
    say that Times is a fine book face simply because a lot of books have been set
    in it. So since far more books have been set in Times than in Minion <em>and the
    vertical proportions either don't matter or are close enough anyway*</em> then
    Times must be more readable.\r\n\r\n* It's sort of stopped mattering what you
    actually believe...\r\n\r\nThe only way I can think of that that's not what you
    actually mean is if readability is essentially <em>irrelevant</em>. This it doesn't
    matter how easy/hard a text is to read. That the only important thing is how it
    looks! (But I guess I shouldn't put that past you.)\r\n\r\n> If a and b are both
    members of set c, it doesn\u2019t follow that a = b!\r\n\r\nThis is all quite
    delusional...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 06:30:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You say that Times is a fine book face simply because a lot of books
    have been set in it. </em>\r\n\r\nYou're putting words in my mouth. Again. Please
    stop.\r\n\r\nWhat I actually said was, \"...why you would consider the most-read
    book face ever to not be a \u201Cbook face\u201D.\r\n\r\nAnd again,\r\n\"We\u2019re
    talking about a face, designed for an upscale newspaper, that has become the most-used,
    most-read face in book publishing. It seems absurd to not consider it a book face,
    amongst its many other uses.\"\r\n\r\nAnd again,\r\n\"I\u2019m saying that Times
    is a book face through widespread usage as such...\"\r\n\r\nDid I ever qualify
    it as fine or good?\r\n\r\n<em>...it\u2019s not that subjective. </em>\r\n\r\n...give
    or take 3%?\r\n\r\n<em>Since far more books have been set in Times than in Minion
    and the vertical proportions either don\u2019t matter or are close enough anyway*
    then Times must be more readable.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, I don't subscribe to your
    notion that vertical proportions determine the readability of a typeface.\r\nWhat
    proof have you of this?\r\n\r\n<em>It\u2019s sort of stopped mattering what you
    actually believe...</em>\r\n\r\nGood!\r\nI'm hoping to discover something from
    this thread, not bully across my prejudices.\r\nAt one point I stated that I suspected
    x-to-cap heights of a group of faces to be less consistent than x-to-ascender,
    then I did the math and concluded that isn't so. Don't concern yourself so much
    with trying to guess what I believe, or whether a recent post of mine contradicts
    a previous one, but try for new insights, such as your observation about the difficulty
    of accurately measuring x-height--even if you find you are undermining a previous
    idea you had held.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 07:08:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As we've known, I concern myself with things that don't suit your agenda.
    Such as what \"book face\" might really mean - beyond some banal, vapid consumerism.
    Apparently to you technical concepts are only useful as tools of subterfuge; and
    when you are called on an untenable statement, are in fact incapable of \"discovering\"
    anything at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 07:47:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...banal, vapid consumerism</em>\r\n\r\nSpoken like a true elitist.\r\n\r\n<em>Apparently
    to you technical concepts are only useful as tools of subterfuge...</em>\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you feel threatened? Aren't you the proponent of reason over intuition? \r\n\r\n<em>...when
    you are called on an untenable statement</em>\r\n\r\nIf you repeat that it's untenable
    often enough, do you think that people will believe you? "
  created: '2009-12-02 07:59:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My opinion of Times Roman is that it <em>is</em> a fine and good typeface.\r\n\r\nBut
    it would simply be wrong to say that it is an oldstyle face; it's transitional.
    And Bodoni is fine and good too, if suitable for fewer purposes than Times; it
    is neither oldstyle nor transitional, it is modern.\r\n\r\nI think that Times
    Roman has been used to excellent effect in the typesetting of books. However,
    in the English language at least, phrases don't always mean the sum of their parts.\r\n\r\nSo
    when someone says that a typeface is a \"book face\", or, better yet, a \"classical
    book face\", being sufficiently naive that I don't expect that if I am not familiar
    with a technical term used in typography, then it <em>isn't</em> a technical term
    in typography... I assume that the speaker (or writer) is indeed using a technical
    term.\r\n\r\nIf Corona is a newspaper face, and Caslon, Bembo, and Baskerville
    are book faces, then I would suppose that Times lies somewhere in between. It
    certainly wouldn't be legible under the kinds of demanding printing conditions
    that made the resort to the newspaper legibility faces necessary. But its design
    was affected by having been aimed at an application in which legibility in small
    sizes was important.\r\n\r\nI think it is useful and meaningful to have such a
    technical term, and that its existence doesn't mean that it's bad typography to
    use a typeface which isn't a \"book face\" to typeset a book.\r\n\r\nThere's even
    a simple definition of a \"book face\" which I can offer that illustrates why
    x-height is an important factor without having to define a new kind of x-height,
    or argue why ascenders are more important than cap height. A book face might simply
    be a face that a book may be well typeset in... without any leading.\r\n\r\nThen
    everything becomes clear and simple. Yes, Times Roman has been used for the text
    of many beautiful books - but not unleaded. It can be used, and used well, in
    a book - but because that is not its native element, it needs a little help."
  created: '2009-12-02 13:32:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What is the amount of leading appropriate for book typography?\r\nStanley
    Morison's didactic work on typography (First Principles, 1937?) is set in Bembo,
    with solid leading--with the result that ascenders and descenders frequently entangle
    visually, almost touching. Solid setting is not much used today. I believe that
    most book designers now give Bembo \"a little help\" in the leading department.
    The idea that text type needs extra leading is entrenched in the Paragraph defaults
    of Word, Quark, and InDesign, and in every font that doesn't have its TypoLineGap
    value set to zero.\r\n\r\nIn Scotch Modern, my revival of a mid 19th century Modern,
    I set TypoLineGap to zero, so that (many) web pages set solid in browser display.
    I think it looks cool and have no trouble reading it, but most people would think
    the readability is poor. Nonetheless, I think it's appropriate for such facsimile
    revivals.\r\n\r\n(Discussion of leading probably warrants another thread.)\r\n\r\n<em>If
    ... Caslon, Bembo, and Baskerville are book faces,</em> \r\n\r\nBut were they
    designed as such? That could be argued, as there was very little commercial or
    jobbing typography at the time. Nonetheless, Caslon in particular has proved extremely
    adaptable--for instance as a display face in 20th century print advertising, e.g.
    for Honda in the 1980s.\r\n\r\n<em>I think it is useful and meaningful to have
    such a technical term, and that its existence doesn\u2019t mean that it\u2019s
    bad typography to use a typeface which isn\u2019t a \u201Cbook face\u201D to typeset
    a book.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not so sure. A lot of books have been set in digital Bembo
    and Perpetua in recent years, because that was a safe bet, as they are classic
    faces used in letterpress book printing. However, the digital versions lack the
    heft of the older technology, with the result that there is a lot of anemic-looking
    book type out there. Not just an aesthetic problem, but a practical problem for
    boomers and other demographics with less than perfect vision. I would prefer a
    splodgy, overinked paperback in Times over a finely-printed work in Perpetua or
    Bembo, because unless I put on my best reading glasses, turn up the light bright,
    and hold the book at just the right distance, it's harder to read those classic
    faces in their toney settings. \r\n\r\n<em>...what \u201Cbook face\u201D might
    really mean...</em>\r\n\r\nDon't fall for that. What Hrant really means is that
    he would like to impose his narrow conservative taste on such matters as dogma,
    supported with \"logical\" arguments. Now <em>that's</em> agenda, as practiced
    politically by the American right."
  created: '2009-12-02 18:10:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't know about Perpetua and Bembo being anemic, but I have often felt
    that way about Caslon.\r\n\r\nI was just planning, shortly before seeing your
    post, to start a thread on leading - with a twist.\r\n\r\nAs for \"narrow conservative
    taste\", I would expect technical terms to have been in use for a long time, and
    thus to reflect well-established practice. So the fact that we call a font with
    attributes X a \"book face\" doesn't have to mean that we have to be so narrow
    and conservative as to believe it is only appropriate to set books in traditional
    book faces.\r\n\r\nNaturally, letting one side control the meanings of words can
    be dangerous, but I don't think that Hrant is out to get us to view Times Roman
    as doubleplusungood."
  created: '2009-12-02 18:20:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have often felt that way about Caslon.</em>\r\n\r\nBut not William's
    Caslon, I predict :-)"
  created: '2009-12-02 18:30:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What Hrant really means is that he would\r\n> like to impose his narrow
    conservative taste\r\n\r\nWhat happened to this?\r\n\"You\u2019re putting words
    in my mouth. Again. Please stop.\"\r\n\r\nI'm really not very conservative.\r\nBut
    most of all, I am not a phony.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 18:43:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What happened to this?</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's the matter, you can dish it
    out but you can't take it?\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m really not very conservative.\r\nBut
    most of all, I am not a phony.</em>\r\n\r\nSomehow, those two statements don't
    go together. \r\nBut don't worry, it's not about you."
  created: '2009-12-02 19:30:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Well Nick... you brought it down to the gutter by injecting (Edit: your)
    politics :-)\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2009-12-02 20:02:38'
date: '2009-11-26 19:15:57'
title: Mean and Puritan

---
