---
author:
  name: damascity
body: "Hi everyone\r\n\r\nLast night I was looking to see if there was a version of
  Frutiger that one can license for web usages (e.g. using \"font-face\"). I came
  across this site and wanted to get some feedback on whether it's legit or not and
  would you use them in web design projects:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.rubicon.ca/index.htm]]\r\n\r\nI
  have to admit that I'm relatively new to the field of typography so I thought I
  could get some feedback here. I'm guessing just by the descriptions on his site
  that these probably are knockoffs that one wouldn't use in print as mistakes are
  much easier to see in print than they are on the web. Perhaps more importantly,
  I get the vibe that they might be illegal. Are they? \r\n\r\nIf they are legal do
  you think that one would be able to really notice the differences between these
  fonts and the originals on the web at about body sizes (say about 14-17px)? \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nBesim"
comments:
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There is no going back.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-11-29 07:46:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "All the Rubicon knockoff fonts sold by Lee-Jeff Bell are public domain fonts\r\n\r\nsee
    www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n\r\nYou cannot license public
    domain fonts, nor do you have to pay licence fees.\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-29 09:16:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Uli, the United States Copyright Office explicitly disagrees with the basic
    premise of your article that fonts are not computer programs. The definition of
    a computer program for US copyright purposes is <em>very</em> broad. You make
    the common mistake of assuming that the legal definition in some way corresponds
    to what you personally consider to be a computer program. In a legal context,
    who cares what <em>you</em> think?
  created: '2009-11-29 18:00:45'
- author:
    name: damascity
  body: "Someone would have to be a fool to think that fonts are not copyrightable
    considering they are a work of creativity with much technical work going into
    them. Any original work is considered a copyright by default isn't it?\r\n\r\nQuestion
    is are these are illegal or has copyright expired on the original fonts such that
    it would make these Rubicon fonts legal? "
  created: '2009-11-29 18:59:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uli, the United States Copyright Office explicitly disagrees with the basic
    premise of your article \r\n\r\nMy public domain article deals with Linotype fonts,
    and Linotype is a GERMAN company under GERMAN jurisdiction:\r\n\r\nsee http://www.linotype.com/de/2061/impressumrechtliches.html\r\n\r\nEven
    if the copyright offices in West Africa or in East India should disagree with
    my article (do they?), Linotype still remains a GERMAN company under GERMAN jurisdiction."
  created: '2009-11-29 19:02:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Uli, signatory nations to Berne Convention on copyright agree to extend to
    works of foreign origin <em>the same protection that they grant to domestic works</em>.
    In other words, German copyright applies to Linotype fonts in Germany, US copyright
    applies to Linotype fonts in the USA, Canadian copyright applies to Linotype fonts
    in Canada, etc. What matters is not law of the country of origin of the work but
    that of country in which an infraction may occur (and, of course, the willingness
    and ability of a company to combat infractions in that local jurisdiction).
  created: '2009-11-29 19:26:24'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "John Hudson:\r\n\r\nYou start a discussion which nobody will understand here
    and which you apparently do not understand yourself.\r\n\r\nFor instance, my above-mentioned
    document\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n\r\ndeals
    with the fonts contained in the Linotype catalog of the year 1982. But the USA
    was NOT a member of the Berne Convention in the year 1982."
  created: '2009-11-29 21:17:08'
- author:
    name: dirtcastle
    picture: 115829
  body: "The one true test of legality is whether it is available on dafont. \r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2009-11-29 21:46:52'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\n>In a legal context, who cares what you think?\r\n\r\nWell,
    I would care very much what uli thinks. Because he's going to do what he thinks
    is lawful or not whether or not, by your interpretation, it technically is.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 02:11:53'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "If you are looking for some free fonts for web use, check out http://www.fontsquirrel.com/\r\n\r\nThen
    you won't have to fuss with all this legal mumbo jumbo.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nevan\r\n\r\n[[http://www.evanmade.com]]"
  created: '2009-12-03 05:30:03'
- author:
    name: The Co-op Guy
    picture: 118572
  body: "Hey all, I just registered on this site. I stumbled upon it randomly looking
    for free fonts, and started to get sucked in on font design. I'm an architecture
    student, and I'd really like to learn more about typesetting and font design,
    so here I am!\r\n\r\np.s. fontsquirrel is cool, I just downloaded quicksand which
    is a nice font, although the \"o\" sometimes stands about because of the kerning
    set.\r\nanyways, happy designing!"
  created: '2009-12-03 06:50:30'
- author:
    name: The Co-op Guy
    picture: 118572
  body: By the way, Evan I checked out your site and you have some really nice stuff!
    Being in architecture I like to think I have somewhat of an eye in graphics (what
    kind of eye, who knows!) I especially enjoyed the 'don't click send' project.
    I love simple, even "childish" types of graphics, and the data display was legible
    yet entertaining. Keep it up!
  created: '2009-12-03 06:55:17'
- author:
    name: damascity
  body: So does anyone know how long copyrights remain on fonts? Is there a major
    difference in this law in different countries? It seems that his main argument
    is not so much whether laws apply to the font's digital files but whether or not
    they have moved into public domain? According to the site German law allows fonts
    to be protected for 25 years. Is this true? Does anyone know how long it lasts
    in the US?
  created: '2009-12-05 08:04:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '"Hey, it''s Tiger. I need you to do me a huge favor. Can you please change
    the names of the fonts linked to my web site? Monotype went through my CSS and
    may be calling you. So if you can, please change the names. Just have it as a
    random string in the code. You got to do this for me. Huge. Quickly. Bye."'
  created: '2009-12-06 00:16:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The fact that a font design has entered the public domain does not impair
    the ability of someone to copyright a True Type font, which is a sequence of bits,
    that draws that font. Creating a True Type font requires work, and is a creative
    act - you have to go and draw the font on a computer screen to make the font.
  created: '2009-12-06 00:23:41'
- author:
    name: damascity
  body: "Thanks everyone for the comments so far. The more I look into the more skeptical
    I'm becoming of Sanskrit's claims. I still have a few questions I think would
    help clear the confusion that newbies might have. \r\n\r\nSo are the copyright
    rules separate for the font design and the actual .ttf file itself? \r\n\r\nHe's
    basically saying copyright has expired on these digital files that were released
    in 1982. This seems off as most copyright laws last 50-70 years after the author's
    death (including in Germany). I couldn't find any information that stated that
    software is exempt from this. If software is exempt from this, where does that
    leave font files which differ greatly from software in that a font doesn't become
    outdated like software does  (No one is really developing for the Apple Lisa anymore
    but Helvetica sure isn't going away).\r\n\r\nI'm sure there are many designers/developers
    out there who are not familiar with copyright laws regarding font files. I would
    imagine that searching for a legal version of famous fonts like Frutiger, Optima,
    etc would be a common thing and that others would also find the same site. This
    is the only site that I found that claims to have legal versions available to
    use for @font-face usage. If what he has is illegal then what can be done to stop
    it? \r\n\r\nI would much rather prefer that a search would land someone to this
    thread where they can be lead to some answers that provides a clearer picture
    of what the case actually is than a one-sided argument that to the novice that
    makes it seem legitimate to use these files.\r\n\r\nThanks again,\r\nBesim"
  created: '2009-12-06 07:00:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "quadibloc:\r\n\r\n> <cite> \"The fact that a font design has entered the
    public domain does not impair the ability of someone to copyright a True Type
    font, which is a sequence of bits, that draws that font.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nDigitising
    an old public domain work, i.e. converting it into \"a sequence of bits\", does
    not resuscitate the dead copyright. Here are a few examples:\r\n\r\n1) Project
    Gutenberg (www.gutenberg.org) digitised, i.e. converted to ASCII files, innumerable
    public domain literary works, but this did not resuscitate the dead copyrights.\r\n\r\n2)
    If you convert an old public domain shellac gramophone record or an old vinyl
    phonograph record into a digital compact disk, you do not resuscitate the dead
    copyright.\r\n\r\n3) If you photograph an old public domain analogue Kodak photography
    using a digital camera, you do not resuscitate the dead copyright.\r\n\r\netc.
    etc. etc.\r\n\r\nSo, for example, if you digitize the public domain \"Stempel
    Garamond\" (aka \"Original Garamond\") by converting it to a TTF font and rename
    it to \"Aldine 430\"\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/bitstream2.pdf, page
    4 and page 12\r\n\r\nyou do not resuscitate a dead copyright nor a dead design
    right (which in the case of the 1925 \"Original Garamond\" or \"Stempel Garamond\"
    never existed).\r\n\r\nFor the USA copyright law, also consider the \"Sweat of
    the brow\" doctrine:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweat_of_the_brow"
  created: '2009-12-06 07:45:12'
- author:
    name: dtapia
    picture: 117998
  body: "@ The co-op guy\r\n\r\n   We are on the same page. Architecture student intrigued
    by font design. I also started by the fontsquirrel font search method and got
    dragged into the interesting world of typography. It really is more than what
    I thought it was. I will be starting some experimenting to make my own fonts with
    [pre-autocad] blueprints from talented architects. I have one in mind already."
  created: '2009-12-06 14:44:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It requires the \"sweat of the brow\" to create a .ttf file for, say, my
    own imitation of Caslon. Fonts are created by drawing, not scanning. (Although
    some font construction programs may attempt to make a first-cut version of a font
    from a scan.)\r\n\r\nAs it happens, font designs weren't protected at all by copyright
    or patent law (despite some foundries obtaining design patents for their fonts
    anyways) until, possibly, very recently. So the only thing type foundries had
    were their trademarks - and some had been aggressively suing people who listed
    which knockoff fonts looked like which original fonts. (This apparently has been
    happening recently - books on typography were published in the phototypesetting
    era that had such lists, but now I hear of websites being sued.)\r\n\r\nWhile
    the intellectual property of original type designers is certainly more important
    to protect than those of knock-off type designers, given that original type designs
    don't enjoy much protection, the claim that a .ttf file lacks normal copyright
    protection would threaten the intellectual property rights of the original designers
    of typefaces, not just those of knock-off font makers."
  created: '2009-12-06 16:05:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii's fictional phone call recipient:\r\n\r\n\"It's Tiger again. Hey, I
    hope you didn't actually buy the fonts from Monotype with my credit card so there's
    a paper trail leading back to us. I've got deep pockets, I could end up in court
    like NBC! I hope you got them from a web site or p2p. I mean, couldn't you just
    take a font that ships with Windows out of the font folder and work with that?
    Even better, forget @font-face and just use the font to create images or use Flash.
    Fonts linked using @font-face usually look like crap, anyway. Or, even better,
    use a free font and *add* Monotype's name in! Maybe they'll issue a takedown notice
    and I can make a few bucks with a counter-suit.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n@uli\r\n\r\nMy understanding
    of the position taken by the vast majority of font creators is as follows. (And
    if anyone feels I've got it wrong, please, please correct me. I'm trying to present
    this neutrally and factually.)\r\n\r\nWhen it became possible to record the visual
    features of a typeface as numbers within a computer file, the fact that the typeface
    could not be copyrighted, did not mean that the computer files which digitally
    describe them could not be copyrighted. These files are protectable as literary
    works.\r\nAs far as type designs that were clearly in the public domain or clearly
    the product of someone else, the same holds true. The original type design cannot
    be copyrighted but the digital file describing it can.\r\nSo, even though a font
    re-creates a typeface design that is clearly in the public domain, that fact is
    inapplicable in determining whether it's digital representation is, or is not,
    copyrightable as a literary work.\r\nIn regards to typefaces, the adoption of
    digital technology reset the clock so to speak - the previous 550 years of typeface
    design for print and the hand-done faces before that no longer count for anything
    in regard to whether a font can be copyrighted.\r\nOnce a typeface is digitized,
    the resulting files are copyrightable and will be so for the life of the creator
    plus 70 years. (I think that's the current term in the USA. Works done for hire
    have a longer lifespan.)\r\nAnyway, that's the position as I understand it.\r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-06 17:55:21'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Fink:\r\n\r\nOn page 2 of the document\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    asked three simple questions.\r\n\r\nQuestion One: Yes or No?\r\nQuestion Two:
    Yes or No?\r\nQuestion Three: Yes or No?\r\n\r\nIf you apply your own theory which
    you stated above,\r\nwhat would be your answers to these three questions?\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-06 19:09:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@uli\r\n\r\nThe theory I stated above is not my own. It's an attempt to summarize,
    as neutrally and impartially as possible, the theory I believe most font designers
    subscribe to as to why their font files are copyrightable in the face of two things:\r\n1)
    The fact that typefaces are not copyrightable at all in the USA.\r\n2) The fact
    that, in countries where typefaces can be copyrighted, many fonts are based on
    typefaces in the public domain. (As you point out quite clearly.)\r\nI am assuming
    - in an attempt to explain the theory - that there must be a \"transforming moment\"
    where the digital description of the typeface becomes something that can be copyrighted.\r\nIt's
    just a question at what point in the process that transformation occurs.\r\n\r\nIntellectually,
    I have my own thoughts of course, but those are private until I choose to share
    them. So please understand that your statement, \"apply your own theory\", is
    a misstatement. It's not my theory.\r\n\r\nThat said, the answers which must be
    given based on the position I stated previously are:\r\n\r\n1) Yes\r\n2) Yes\r\n3)
    Yes\r\n\r\nThat's what the theory says.\r\nSo as to not leave the elephant sitting
    alone in the room: Do I believe that would be the answer you would get from the
    average computer user?\r\nNo.\r\nAnd that's the real problem, not who is technically
    legally correct. A \"law\" that fifty million people choose to disobey - no matter
    what the reason - isn't much good for anything.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 00:16:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I didn't think font piracy was that widespread.\r\n\r\nPeople who want lots
    of fonts can buy cheap font collections, they can download many free fonts, and
    one particular brand of word processor happens to come with a giant chunk of the
    Bitstream collection of fonts.\r\n\r\nSo, while there may be sites hosting pirated
    fonts, and there is a potential for fonts being installed on more machines than
    they're licensed for in offices that aren't paying attention to this, while font
    piracy probably is more widespread than software piracy is now, I would have thought
    that it was still on the same order of magnitude."
  created: '2009-12-07 03:02:21'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Fink:\r\n\r\n><cite>That said, the answers which must be given based
    on the position I stated previously are:\r\n\r\n1) Yes\r\n2) Yes\r\n3) Yes</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am now retired, but as a former author of several books about computer programming\r\n\r\nsee
    www.sanskritweb.net/apple\r\n\r\nmy answers to the first two questions is \"No\",
    because CDR files are graphics data files, not graphics computer programs. And
    since the answers to the first two questions is \"No\", the answer to the third
    question is \"NO\" too.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 05:08:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "This was all [[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2006/01/legal_protectio.html|summarized
    nicely by Thomas]] four years ago. Money quote:\r\n\r\n<cite>However, even without
    copyright protection for the design of a font (in the US), digital fonts are widely
    recognized (in the US and many other countries) as being protected by copyright
    as computer software. This principle has been explicitly upheld in US federal
    district court in the very informative [[http://lw.bna.com/lw/19980303/9520710.htm|summary
    judgment rulings]] in the Adobe v SSI case (1997). So, when font pirates talk
    about how what they're doing is legal because fonts aren't protected by copyright
    under US law, we know this simply isn't true.</cite>"
  created: '2009-12-08 19:11:10'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Did this northern judge Ronald M. Whyte rule that he himself is a computer
    programming expert?\r\n\r\nDid this northern judge Ronald M. Whyte consult independent
    computer experts who are not affiliated with Adobe and are not on the Adobe payroll?\r\n\r\nDid
    this northern judge Ronald M. Whyte rule that US Chief Justice John G. Roberts
    is a computer programmer?\r\n(see above)\r\n\r\nDid this northern judge Ronald
    M. Whyte rule that the USA was a member of the Berne Convention in 1982?\r\n(see
    above)\r\n\r\nDid this northern judge Ronald M. Whyte rule that his summary judgement
    applies to all 1982 Linotype fonts?\r\n(see above)\r\n\r\nDid this northern judge
    Ronald M. Whyte rule that his summary judgement is valid for all fonts of all
    countries in the world?\r\n(see above)\r\n\r\nOr did this northern judge Ronald
    M. Whyte only rule that his summary judgement is only summary and only valid for
    the font Utopia and only valid between the two parties SSI and Adobe?\r\n\r\nsee
    www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf"
  created: '2009-12-09 06:44:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Here is another list of the SSI knockoffs\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/tewi.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 07:06:11'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Uli, good luck in court with all that!
  created: '2009-12-09 18:57:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher slye\r\n\r\nActually Chris, for good or ill, case law is moving
    away from the reasoning in that one single lone ruling in Adobe v SSI. Which was,
    after all, in 1997. The image I find striking is that, in 1997, there probably
    was not a single laptop in the courtroom. Today there would probably be a dozen
    if not more. Don't underestimate changes in the Zeitgeist.\r\nThere are pirate
    sites out there, right? Why doesn't Adobe or Microsoft or Monotype or all together
    sue the pants off those responsible? Frankly, I believe it's partly because if
    it wound up in court with a serious adversary and unfavorable facts the plaintiffs
    might not be happy with the results.\r\n1997 is twelve Internet years ago. (Them's
    like doggie years to you 'n' me. But you're too young, I think, to remember *that*
    TV commercial. Only near-geezers remember Lorne Greene.)\r\nAnyway, better off
    keeping things fuzzy and issuing veiled threats like:\r\n\"good luck in court
    with all that!\"\r\n(Just the truth as I see it, Chris, and I would do the same
    myself. And perhaps you didn't mean it that way, either. I just don't think that
    trying to create a chill effect helps anybody.)\r\nBut the bottom line is, once
    fonts become common components of web pages, good luck in the everyday world with
    this:\r\n<em>However, even without copyright protection for the design of a font
    (in the US), digital fonts are widely recognized (in the US and many other countries)
    as being protected by copyright as computer software. This principle has been
    explicitly upheld in US federal district court in the very informative summary
    judgment rulings in the Adobe v SSI case (1997). So, when font pirates talk about
    how what they\u2019re doing is legal because fonts aren\u2019t protected by copyright
    under US law, we know this simply isn\u2019t true.</em>\r\n\r\nI just don't think
    any of that will end up being particularly relevant, that's all. Or any of our
    opinions, either. People are going to do what they are going to do.\r\nAnd <strong>then</strong>
    what are you going to do?\r\n\r\nBTW - Here's a <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/comments/real-web-type-in-real-web-context/P10/#14\">link</a>
    to a quick couple of paragraphs about me explaining to my wife about fonts as
    copyrighted software and what she can and cannot \"legally\" do. I don't think
    her reaction is untypical."
  created: '2009-12-10 01:37:02'
date: '2009-11-29 06:13:15'
node_type: forum
title: Knock off Fonts for Web Use?

---
