---
author:
  name: quadibloc
  picture: 118515
body: "In another thread, I proposed that we might define a \"book face\" as one that
  looks good in a book without the necessity of leading - hence avoiding the presumption
  that only a \"book face\" should be used in a book.\r\n\r\nThat may not have been
  a good definition, since even where ascenders and descenders are long, having them
  touch can be confusing. It might be tweaked, to say \"more than 1/2 point\" or \"more
  than 1 point\" leading - although 1 point is enough to make Times Roman acceptable
  at normal sizes.\r\n\r\nHowever, as a way to avoid the controversy about whether
  x-height is measured in points, as a proportion of cap height, or a proportion of
  the baseline to ascender dimension, it clearly has one defect. In this age of digital
  type, talking about whether or not leading takes place... implies that the distance
  from shoulder to shoulder of a type slug is a well-defined characteristic of a typeface.\r\n\r\nTo
  make life easier for typists writing letters in Times Roman, word processors by
  default do not produce the equivalent of Times Roman with no leading when that font
  is selected. If you select 12 point Times as your font, you will get something that
  looks about like 10 1/2 point Times with 1 1/2 points leading.\r\n\r\nBut this isn't
  even something that just came about because of digital typography.\r\n\r\nIn the
  age of foundry type, many foundries advertised \"lining\" versions of their fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat
  this meant was that there was empty space on the type slug. Normally, the ascender
  to descender length was just a very tiny amount short of the actual point size of
  the face. But lining versions of fonts allowed different typefaces to be mixed on
  the same line, because every typeface had the baseline in the same position on the
  slug.\r\n\r\nThat can be done for any typeface without changing the design simply
  by shrinking the letter to fit on the body both above and below the baseline. In
  new designs, the requirement to make all fonts line doesn't impose a minimum x-height,
  but it does limit the length of descenders.\r\n\r\nOne result of that was the felt
  need to modify Goudy Old Style from Goudy's original design to shorten the descenders.
  (As it is not much used as a text face, but only as a display face, these days,
  if they could find Goudy's original design, they should change it back.)\r\n\r\nAnother
  interesting thing is that originally, Times was accompanied by an alternative version
  for more traditionally-inclined printers, \"Times with long descenders\". But so
  that 11-point Times with long descenders would be the same size (x-height and cap
  height) as regular 11-point Times... the descenders now kerned off the bottom of
  the type slug, making leading mandatory for the typeface.\r\n\r\nSo this physical
  consideration appears to have meant that when a font is desired to have a large
  x-height in relation to point size, the descenders, rather than ascenders or cap
  height, are the first to take it on the chin."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly the need for leading (and the amount) depends on a few things,
    most of all the line length. At the font level, it depends most heavily on two
    things:\r\n1) How much talus (internal leading) there is. And digital fonts continue
    to have a talus* even if technically they don't need to. This is probably not
    just a holdover practice from metal, but a reflection of catering to user expectations
    of apparent size.\r\n2) How large the x-height is in proportion to the EM, since
    that's where most of the action is. So a font with a larger x-height (especially
    one with narrow and/or tight letterforms) needs more leading.\r\n\r\n* Except
    for things like Zapfino! But those: have to avoid looking tiny on the body; and
    might actually <em>gain</em> by having extenders collide! Another exception is
    pixelfonts - but those are sort of a special hack.\r\n\r\nAs for a correlation
    between the need for leading and the suitability of a font for book setting, I
    think there's a relationship, but it can't be a determining one. To me the most
    important things are: vertical proportions, and width. The sort of setting books
    tend to need to have (specifically, somewhat larger point sizes) means that a
    bookish (but never \"absolutely\" bookish) font needs a smaller x-height and somewhat
    lighter forms.\r\n\r\n> So this physical consideration appears to have meant that
    when a font\r\n> is desired to have a large x-height in relation to point size,
    the\r\n> descenders, rather than ascenders or cap height, are the first to take\r\n>
    it on the chin.\r\n\r\nThere are historical reasons (some stemming from the use
    of blackletter) for descenders to be shorter than they need to be, but one technical
    reason that essentially always makes sense is that the more vertical \"pressure\"
    there is on a font for a given usage, the more divergent the ascender/descender
    ratio should be.\r\n\r\nThis means for one thing that the longer lines in a book
    that necessitate more leading relieve that pressure, and you basically have more
    room to promote readability by emphasizing extenders; you might as well use more
    of that extra room for the rich descenders (which however must remain shorter
    than the ascenders since those are much more frequent).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 21:13:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another reason: it's easier to shorten the descenders, without compromising
    legibility and aesthetics.\r\n\r\nA designer has the whole glyph to work with
    when shortening the most difficult descender, on g, but with the most difficult
    ascender, on f, is constrained by the position of the crossbar at the x-height.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the upper part of letters is more significant, as has long been known: this was
    a factor in the design of Cheltenham, in the early days of standardized lining
    fonts (is that right?)\r\n\r\nAfter all, the position of the baseline in standardized
    lining fonts needn't have been so low. Is that correct?"
  created: '2009-12-02 21:17:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually in almost all conditions (see below) the descenders are much harder
    to squeeze. The \"g\"* especially starts looking too small when you squeeze it
    vertically; this is due to its structural complexity - it starts looking too squat
    if you try to maintain its apparent size**. You can see this fact by observing
    that the \"g\" is typically the first glyph to get ugly sooner. In fact the extent
    to which you can squeeze a font will be limited by the \"g\".\r\n\r\n* I mean
    the binocular one of course. The monocular\r\nform does not contribute as much
    to good readability.\r\n\r\n** In any good text font the \"g\" does look <em>slightly</em>
    too small.\r\n\r\nIt's when you get <em>really</em> tight (a very small proportion
    of fonts - and certainly <em>absolutely not \"book faces\"</em>) AND in fonts
    where the \"f\" needs a prominent terminal that the \"g\" unloads some of its
    burden onto the \"f\"; but some designers solve that by lowering the crossbar.\r\n\r\n>
    the upper part of letters is more significant\r\n\r\nOf course that applies to
    the x-height region only! (And some people contest it.) Certainly not the ascenders,
    which are all plain sticks except for the \"f\".\r\n\r\n> this was a factor in
    the design of Cheltenham\r\n\r\nAre you sure? I thought that was Clearface.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-02 22:24:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The talus, or internal leading, of digital fonts is, in my opinion, not a
    holdover from metal fonts, since it is much larger than that of metal fonts: \"11
    point Times\" on a computer is significantly smaller than 11 point Times in typesettng.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so expectations of size are violated by this, to the extent that they might exist.\r\n\r\nBut
    the user expectation that is being catered to is that lines will be as readable
    as typical real-life examples of the font, which had appropriate leading added.
    Users of a word processing program are not normally expected to be familiar with
    such typesetting niceties as leading - instead, the switch is to appear as if
    it was simply one from using a typewriter to using a typewriter with proportional
    spacing.\r\n\r\nOf course, the user also expects that if he selects \"12\", then
    exactly half as many lines will fit in a space as would have fit if he selected
    \"6\".\r\n\r\nSo it isn't expected size, it's expected space and expected space
    between."
  created: '2009-12-02 23:10:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The talus, or internal leading, of digital fonts is, in my opinion, not
    a\r\n> holdover from metal fonts, since it is much larger than that of metal fonts\r\n\r\nReally?
    I wonder why. One would think it would be the other way around. I do however suspect
    two possible reasons: digital fonts are more concerned with supporting more languages,
    hence more (read: higher and lower) diacritics; and when it comes to revivals
    and smaller sizes, the fact that most digital fonts are based on the 12 master
    might mean they've inherited that size's greater relative talus.\r\n\r\n> expectations
    of size are violated by this\r\n\r\nOne should note however that such expectations
    don't really cross the metal-digital boundary. Meaning that whatever expectations
    digital fonts might create are not really skewed by expectations from metal font
    usage.\r\n\r\n> Of course, the user also expects that if he selects \u201C12\u201D,
    then exactly half\r\n> as many lines will fit in a space as would have fit if
    he selected \u201C6\u201D.\r\n\r\nYou think so? For one thing, a font that's half
    the size takes up a <em>quarter</em> of the surface area. However leading and
    linebreaks kick in to throw off such simple proportionality.\r\n\r\nFrankly I
    don't think users rely on directly proportional savings when they change point
    size; and if they do have any such expectations, those are quickly dashed!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 00:47:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Are you sure? I thought that was Clearface.</em>\r\n\r\nIIRC, it was
    Cheltenham, and that was something that Goodhue was aware of.\r\nCan't remember
    where I read that, though.\r\n\r\n<em>the user expectation that is being catered
    to is that lines will be as readable as typical real-life examples of the font,
    which had appropriate leading added. </em>\r\n\r\nThat begs the question of what
    is appropriate.\r\n\r\nWhat I wonder is: why did the default Paragraph setting
    in Quark XPress and Word (both from the late 1980s, when DTP was introduced) and
    PageMaker (I assume, although I'm not familiar with it) add an extra 20% leading?
    And why do so many digital fonts have an extra TypoLineHeight value built-in?\r\n\r\nWas
    there something about the way type was set in the 1980s which convinced the software
    designers that such copious \"line spacing\" was necessary?"
  created: '2009-12-03 01:19:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > In the age of foundry type, many foundries advertised \u201Clining\u201D
    versions of their fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite> > What this meant was that there
    was empty space on the type slug. </cite>\r\n\r\nI think these statements are
    misleading.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't characterize it as \"many\". In fact, I'm only aware
    of Stephenson, Blake and Co. making widespread use of this convention. For instance,
    this adjective was used throughout the 1926 specimen to indicate faces cast upon
    the [relatively] newly adopted American Point Standard Alignment (ca.1900), as
    distinct from previous practice. This was a selling point.\r\n\r\nAs Standard
    Alignment became adopted as standard practice, most fonts were cast on standard
    line (i.e., foundries weren't casting \"lining versions\" of their fonts, they
    were now just casting their fonts on the accepted standard) and I believe the
    term \"lining\" was mostly dropped (in this sense).\r\n\r\nAnd Point Standard
    Alignment did not mandate \"extra space\" as is implied here. It simply established
    a standardized placement of the baseline for each point size, such that all faces
    of a single size would base-align and, furthermore, various sizes of type could
    be mixed on a single line and be made to base-align [conveniently] by using 1-pt
    increments of leading.\r\n\r\nBut yes, many contemporaries decried the arbitrary
    placement of the baseline in Standard Alignment that gave short shrift to the
    descenders.\r\n\r\n<cite> > The talus, or internal leading, of digital fonts is,
    in my opinion, not a holdover from metal fonts, since it is much larger than that
    of metal fonts:</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced one can make such a categorical
    claim.\r\n\r\nAs a point of reference, on 12-point metal Linotype the physical
    requirement for head/foot room on the slug (for mechanical reasons) was 0.003
    inches. The overall slug was 0.166 inches. This meant that the overall room for
    design on a 0.166 inch body was 0.160 inches. If one expresses this in terms of
    Postscript em units (on 1000 unit em) then this is about 964 units.\r\n\r\nBy
    the same token, for an 8-point Linotype face, the design space was equivalent
    to 946 units.\r\n\r\nIf one surveys an assortment of digital fonts for the size
    on the body (i.e., the measure from top of ascender to bottom of descender), I
    think you will find that many fall in this same ballpark.\r\n\r\nBTW, I think
    Hrant is the only person I've ever encountered using the term \"talus\" in this
    context. I believe it is another of his coinages. (He'll correct me if I'm mistaken
    ;-)"
  created: '2009-12-03 01:27:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why did the default Paragraph setting in ...\r\n\r\nProbably they felt
    the need to work with the reality that most paragraphs sit on letter-size paper
    with about 1 inch margins; at 12 point (a decent standard of itself) the lines
    are so long that only copious leading will save you. In fact 20% is conservative!
    If you set Times 12 point on a 6\" measure (all Word defaults) you really need
    almost twice that.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 01:28:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, I seem to remember some blackletter connection to the unusually low
    baseline. Any ideas on that?\r\n\r\n> I think Hrant is the only person I\u2019ve
    ever encountered using the term \u201Ctalus\u201D in this context.\r\n\r\nYes
    - I've been working on that problem since day one.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBut I didn't make
    it up - I got it from De Vinne... I think. And wherever it was from, I'm pretty
    sure the context was actually the same.\r\n\r\nDo I remember correctly that you
    had recommended \"beard\" instead?\r\nAlthough I really don't see how that wouldn't
    make things <em>more</em> confusing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 01:41:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "1. As I said in the other thread, trying to define x-height in digital fonts
    by anything other than relationship to the em is IMHO, pointless. If type designers
    are talking they are going to want, as here, to discuss the effect of all the
    variables--ascenders, descenders, cap height, etc., so tying x-height to anything
    else is just confusing. Same for graphic designers discussing how different faces
    set. \r\n\r\n2. \"Book Face\" has to be a loose term because different faces are
    going to be useful for different books--eg depending on the width of the column.
    Trying to define \"book face\" more precisely actually increases, rather than
    decreases confusion. The standard distinction is between 'text' and 'display'
    fonts, and even this is a term of art.  \r\n\r\n3. Nick, I believe that there
    are quite a few faces with the crossbar on the f below the x-height, but I can't
    check this now. "
  created: '2009-12-03 03:06:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "3.\r\n\r\nPalatino and Laudatio, off the top of my head.\r\nAnd Chalet!"
  created: '2009-12-03 03:30:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's certainly difficult to define \"book face\", and nobody should expect
    too much exactitude. I would point out however that \"news face\" is a similar
    type of thing, but it's still a useful concept/term to many people. So it's possible
    to make sense beyond just \"text\" and \"display\".\r\n\r\nI don't think this
    is a matter of formal industry-wide definition or anything like that. Mostly I
    think it's just useful for an <em>individual</em> to have a judicious \"internal\"
    determination of where the various concepts apply, and have some fuzzy ranges
    to rely on (and these should ideally be mostly based on functional performance,
    not some transient, local typo-cultural mores). If other people disagree with
    his ranges, he might end up adjusting them, or not, but at least he has a system
    that makes sense to him, and that helps him solve typographic problems.\r\n\r\nFor
    example I might say that \"book face\" implies a smaller x-height than \"news
    face\", and hopefully even form a fuzzy idea of what x-height proportion is a
    rough transition point between the two ranges.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n3: Perhaps most
    significantly, Consolas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 03:44:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I could not find the word \"talus\" in the three books by DeVinne on the
    practice of printing, but I did not look through them completely.\r\n\r\nIn a
    web search, I finally found a reference to the term \"talus\" in connection with
    typography.\r\n\r\nThe ordinary meaning of \"talus\" is:\r\n\r\nDebris and rocks
    that have piled up at the base of a cliff, mountain, or glacier, or a sloping
    section at the foot of the wall of a castle or fortification.\r\n\r\nThe one reference
    I found was a quotation from \"French academicians and modern typography: designing
    new types in the 1690s\" by James Mosley in volume 2 of Typography Papers (1997),
    in which a synonym for x-height was given (perhaps by the author of the work in
    which the quotation was made, a thesis written in Spanish) as \"oeil\", the space
    between the descender in one line of type and the ascender in the line below was
    called a \"vide\", and the cause of the \"vide\" was the fact that the punch used
    to make a matrix was sloped on its sides, and it was this slope which was called
    the \"talus\"."
  created: '2009-12-03 07:50:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hrant \u2014 That blackletter connection to Point Line doesn't ring a bell.
    And the late 1800s timing of Point Line (developed by American founders) doesn't
    suggest much of a connection. But if I get a chance I'll look into it.\r\n\r\nI
    don't recall advocating any particular alternative for your \"talus\". I certainly
    would not have preferred \"beard\".\r\n\r\n\"Beard\" does describe basically the
    same thing as the talus reference John unearthed. It is the slope from the face
    down to the shoulder, also sometimes called the \"neck\".\r\n\r\nStrictly speaking,
    this isn't quite the same thing as what you're referring to, although I suppose
    there is some small relationship.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 13:51:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, great research! I appreciate it.\r\n\r\nIn French \"vide\" just means
    emptiness. Using that would be even more affected than \"talus\" I think. :-/
    \ So I hereby propose that we repurpose \"talus\" from the metal world to the
    digital world to mean the projection from the former's z-dimension to the latter's
    x-y plane. (Man, I do hope that qualifies as sufficiently post-rationalized...
    :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 15:42:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>\u201CBeard\u201D does describe basically the same thing as the talus
    reference John unearthed. It is the slope from the face down to the shoulder,
    also sometimes called the \u201Cneck\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI've seen that use of
    \"beard\" (also called the \"bevel\"), but I note that Legros and Grant (1916)
    use it to refer to the distance from the baseline to the bottom (front) of the
    body.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4180.gif]\r\nThis is closer
    to Hrant's \"talus\" (which I also can't find anywhere), but starts at the baseline
    rather than the bottom of the descender. \r\n\r\n(A mid-20th-c. source I'm looking
    at argues that \"beard\" technically should the bevel and the shoulder, but is
    often used just to refer to the former.)"
  created: '2009-12-03 17:54:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What kills \"beard\" for me is that it's a \"G\" part.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 19:25:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I ran into this image while looking for something else,\r\nand figured it
    might be somewhat interesting to include:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATF_line_4221.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 04:31:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's very interesting to me. And it makes sense that in addition to having
    a common baseline for all types of the same point size, they would also try to
    fix things so that types of different point sizes could be lined up with standard
    leads.\r\n\r\nSince that does mean, though, that some point sizes would have more
    room for descenders than others, presumably that also must mean - if the ascender
    and descender heights are constant between sizes - that there is a significant
    amount of blank space between lines even when type is set solid. This differs
    from what I've seen in examples of type set solid from many sources."
  created: '2009-12-09 05:59:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > if the ascender and descender heights are constant between sizes</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    weren't."
  created: '2009-12-09 13:12:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I found that there was an illustration in some ATF specimen books that was
    to scale (as this diagram is not) showing just where the American Common Line
    was. But they also had the American Title Line, for titling faces, and the American
    Script Line, for faces with long descenders. However, I hadn't been able to find
    details on the relative positions of those lines.\r\n\r\nAlso, apparently this
    system was originated by Barnhardt Brothers and Spindler (which ATF only acquired
    in 1911); they, too, had three lines - the Uniform Line, the Cap Line, and the
    Text Line, presumably corresponding to Common Line, Title Line, and Script Line
    respectively."
  created: '2009-12-09 14:36:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In the catalog of the Inland Type Foundry, the secret of the three different
    lines is revealed; the title line corresponds to the line on the next larger body
    (that is, place leads at the bottom of the smaller type to fill the space of the
    larger body) and the script line corresponds to the line on the next smaller body
    (again, the smaller body is moved upwards at the bottom to line at the top).\r\n\r\nOf
    course, \"next larger\" and \"next smaller\" are ambiguous, because I suspect
    the diagram given for ATF adds extra body sizes to those on which this was based."
  created: '2009-12-09 14:55:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> some point sizes would have more room for descenders than others\r\n\r\nRelatively,
    yes.\r\n\r\nWhat's interesting though is they didn't go with 1/2 point sizes\r\nin
    the descender space, only the ascender space. I wonder why.\r\n\r\n> if the ascender
    and descender heights are constant between sizes\r\n\r\nI (and I suspect Kent)
    must be misunderstanding, because how could that possibly be?\r\n\r\n> the title
    line corresponds to the line on the next larger body\r\n\r\nClever!\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    the diagram given for ATF adds extra body sizes to those on which this was based.\r\n\r\nProbably
    not usually. And if they did, they could still use\r\na basic progression as the
    one to follow for matching baselines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 18:44:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The ATF diagram shows that the main, all-purpose body sizes were from 7 to
    10 points, which was tacit in type culture of the era, and perhaps persisting
    after.\r\n\r\nBelow that at 6 pt., descenders become short and type squat, indicating
    \"space is at a premium\".\r\nAbove that at 11 pt., descenders become longer and
    the word-count drops proportionate to apparent x-height, showing ample budget.\r\n\r\nThese
    tangible thresholds demonstrate the cultural connection between technology, economics,
    and demographics, in aesthetic form.\r\n\r\nI conjecture this theory could be
    borne out by sales figures, with the 7-10 pt. sizes outselling neighbouring sizes.
    In other words, the sales curve would jump at those thresholds.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 19:15:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would make that 8-11. Historically (and functionally - see below) 11 has
    been a text size. And tellingly you can see a bigger jump between 11 & 12 than
    10 & 11. And 7 is too small.\r\n\r\nBut needless to say it depends on the particular
    design's x-height; Times is a text font at 12 point, but not 7.\r\n\r\n> These
    tangible thresholds demonstrate the cultural connection between\r\n> technology,
    economics, and demographics, in aesthetic form.\r\n\r\nYou've excluded something
    much more central than any of those: reading comfort.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 19:29:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...you can see a bigger jump between 11 & 12 than 10 & 11. </em>\r\n\r\nNot
    so. Assuming extenders are enlarged proportionate to the space available to them,
    the 10 to 11 increase in descender length is a much larger percentage than the
    11 to 12 increase in ascender length.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 20:12:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: ">> if the ascender and descender heights are constant between sizes\r\n\r\n>
    I (and I suspect Kent) must be misunderstanding, because how could that possibly
    be?\r\n\r\nI meant their values as a percentage of the x-height (which, in turn,
    might be constant as a percentage of the point size, but <em>not necessarily</em>)
    would be constant - or possibly change gradually due to optical scaling, but that
    kind of optical scaling would require new masters, not just a change in settings
    on the pantograph.\r\n\r\nThat could be possible, it would just mean a bit of
    blank space at the top or bottom of the type, varying depending on the point size."
  created: '2009-12-09 20:15:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Because mechanically there has to be a ''shoulder'' or ''beard'' extending
    from the face to the top and bottom of the body of the slug, 12 point metal type
    is not a full 12 points, and 12 point type was regarded as a text size and, I
    believe, commonly used in books. It was then commonly set with less leading than
    today, I believe. '
  created: '2009-12-09 20:22:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I was looking at the wrong parts, sorry. Indeed the difference is very
    slightly* in favor of the 11 being closer to the 12 (more below) than the 10.
    However my main point concerning the historic and functional inclusion of 11 in
    the text range stands. Remember, it wasn't the 70s then :-) and thankfully it
    isn't the 70s any longer!\r\n\r\n* Way less than... 3%!  ;-)\r\n\r\nIn fact looking
    at the large gap to the 14, I would say that 12 was seen as a text size too, especially
    in the past when x-heights were typically smaller on average. And this is strongly
    supported by the fact that the 12 master was typically used when reviving a metal
    text face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 20:26:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> In the catalog of the Inland Type Foundry, the secret of the three\r\n>
    different lines is revealed; the title line corresponds to the line\r\n> on the
    next larger body (that is, place leads at the bottom of the\r\n> smaller type
    to fill the space of the larger body) and the script\r\n> line corresponds to
    the line on the next smaller body (again, the\r\n> smaller body is moved upwards
    at the bottom to line at the top).\r\n\r\nI should have paid more attention to
    the image from Legros and Grant's Typographical Printing-Surfaces in eliason's
    post: apparently the Inland Type Foundry approximated the British practice at
    Stephenson Blake, but ATF just used one point above the bottom of the type as
    the title line... with a very few odd exceptions, for whatever reason."
  created: '2009-12-09 21:47:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...very slightly...</em>\r\n\r\nSurely not.\r\nFrom 10 to 11, the available
    descender space increases from 2 pt to 3 pt -- 50%\r\nFrom 11 to 12, the ascender
    space (from baseline) increases from 8 pt to 9 pt; assuming x-height is a constant
    60% of ascender height, that's an increase of 7% in available space.\r\n\r\n<em>
    ...the 12 master was typically used when reviving a metal text face.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would indicate that it is a \"deck\" size, a compromise that will \"do\" for both
    text and display.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm not so sure about my theory.\r\nLooking
    at a few 20th century metal specimens from type houses, it seems that machine
    setting was available for many faces up to 12 pt, and for some up to 14 pt. \r\nSo
    I don't think any hard and fast conclusions can be drawn without some form of
    statistical analysis.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-09 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually in metal 12 point was still a text size as a rule* (if not for every
    design), it was simply chosen as the least-bad text size to digitize, since people
    who didn't know better could (and do) set digital fonts large, and people looking
    at the results were likely to blame the font. So a digital font based on a 12
    point metal master is still generally intended as a text face; and sometimes such
    fonts have been given a proper display companion.\r\n\r\n* I was being too tentative
    previously.\r\n\r\n> So I don\u2019t think any hard and fast conclusions can\r\n>
    be drawn without some form of statistical analysis.\r\n\r\nHow droll.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-10 00:31:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Others will know better than I, but I believe that a lot of the early digitization
    was done based on 14 point size, which is why a lot of them look anemic at text
    sizes. '
  created: '2009-12-10 00:55:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think they came out anemic not because of the source size used, but because
    they were digitized either directly from the drawings/metal, or too-light proofs.
    The original designs accounted for letterpress ink gain. Just like how Times is
    now too light and too contrasty, unlike in the newspaper it was originally designed
    for.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-10 01:10:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The original designs accounted for letterpress ink gain.\r\n\r\nThat, too. "
  created: '2009-12-10 01:10:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> The original designs accounted for letterpress ink gain.\r\n\r\nWhile I
    am not sure about Times being too light and contrasty, or the ATF font library,
    in general, being designed for a heavy impression, I do think this is precisely
    why current Caslons are only usable as advertising display faces.\r\n\r\nIf one
    looks at the first printed version of the Declaration of Independence (set in
    an old copy of Caslon) it appears to be set in a legible and readable text face
    that could hold its own beside current favorites - but one that looks nothing
    like anything currently called \"Caslon\".\r\n\r\nAs for digitizing on too large
    a source size - although smaller sizes were also made with thicker strokes, I
    suspect the main effect of that would be to make versions of the fonts that were
    too <em>condensed</em>."
  created: '2009-12-10 04:45:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">first printed version of the Declaration of Independence ...looks nothing
    like anything currently called \u201CCaslon\u201D.\r\n\r\nThere is Founders Caslon,
    which I think is too light--a strange mistake given that he was seeking authenticity.
    And there is P22's [[http://www.p22.com/products/franklin.html|Franklin Caslon]],
    which I haven't seen used, but should look more like the Declaration. But it is
    has an antiquarian look rather than a \"classic\" one. \r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/65216|There
    is maybe one with the classic dark-but-open look, with a polish suitable for contemporary
    text.]] :)  \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-10 05:28:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Missed that thread. Congratulations on an excellent typeface. That is the
    kind of new typeface we need more of.\r\n\r\nBut just as Caslon Antique is not
    really of interest, the same would be true of Franklin Caslon."
  created: '2009-12-10 06:23:22'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > they were digitized either directly from the drawings/metal, or
    too-light proofs. </cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is an over-generalization. For many
    of the standards, there was likely a more convoluted evolution which included
    adaptation to phototypesetting, then intermediate digital formats in advance of
    Postscript beziers.\r\n\r\nIn the early conversion of digital type libraries,
    I don't think anyone took the time to go back any steps before going forward."
  created: '2009-12-10 14:04:03'
date: '2009-12-02 18:36:38'
node_type: forum
title: Lining Times Roman, Goudy Old Style, and Descender Length

---
