---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: Since the phrase given in the heading did not reveal any hits in the Typophile
  search, I wonder if anyone else might find [[http://www.armeniapedia.org/index.php?title=Sandbox|this
  article]] worth reading.
comments:
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Looks like more work for me. :-)\r\n\r\nMichael Everson\r\nevertype.com"
  created: '2009-12-03 14:16:44'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "well, if there\u2019s no duty Armenian master around here \u2026 probably
    yes  ;-)"
  created: '2009-12-03 15:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I had to make that -for the first time- for my Granshan* submission in 2008.
    It's a pretty easy and obvious structure. I don't know if that's good or bad actually,
    since I would relish the opportunity to have/make something idiosyncratically
    Armenian! On the other hand, currency is not something I like to glorify...\r\n\r\n*
    BTW, they also required a glyph for the Armenian \"eternity\" symbol, concerning
    which there is a gentle, hidden debate as to how many arms it should have...\r\n\r\nAny
    clues when/whether Unicode will include it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>...Armenian \u201Ceternity\u201D symbol, concerning which there
    is a gentle, hidden debate as to how many arms it should have...</em>\r\n\r\nObviously
    it should have an infinite number of arms and take an eternity to design."
  created: '2009-12-03 18:57:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Any details on the eternity symbol arm debate, Hrant? Sounds intriguing. :)
  created: '2009-12-03 19:10:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John: Funny!\r\n\r\nNina: Just some private emails and in-person discussions.
    To me the first thing to decide is whether it should be an odd or even number.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-03 19:22:35'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Don''t know why, but now I have mental images of some sort of flying spaghetti
    monster... '
  created: '2009-12-03 21:02:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Apparently, the answer is six:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternity"
  created: '2009-12-03 21:46:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's the one in Nour (which is more elaborate than is typical):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ArmEtern-Nour_5022.gif]\r\n\r\nThere
    are ones with six arms (the lowest I've noted)\r\nbut usually they have at least
    8 - some many more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 01:37:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And here's a traditional one (see detail) from a khatchkar* that I was\r\npleasantly
    shocked to run into in central Novosibirsk (Siberia) with 12:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SibirKar_3449.jpg]\r\n\r\n*
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khachkar\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 01:37:31'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@hrant \r\n\r\nYou've been to Novisibirsk?\r\nDid you visit the opera house?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-12-04 06:16:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was there about 36 hours* but it was very memorable nonetheless. A real
    city. Gray, no tourists, and half its population looks really good in tight jeans.
    And I remember the tea service in Hotel Sibir - wow. The opera is that large domed
    building, right? There was a lot of scaffolding around it (September, 2004). The
    Saturday we toured all the banks in the city. There was this one with a huge purple
    cat on it - later we realized it was a minx. The Sunday morning I figured we should
    hit the church; not the small ceremonial one on the main street, but the populist
    one a bit away from the center, next to a train station in a gully of sorts. It
    was quite immersive, and we drew some visual inspiration from the decorations
    inside. And then we had to get on our respective flights back home. I did spend
    just under 24 hours in Moscow though. I'd been there before (for a couple of days,
    four years prior), and I do adore its raciness, but it's really just another big
    European city - not Russian enough.\r\n\r\n* I did some \"crack consulting\" with/for
    Miles Newlyn on a bank identity redesign proposal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 06:59:05'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: ">Don\u2019t know why, but now I have mental images of some sort of flying
    spaghetti monster...\r\n\r\nIt reminds me of the Celtic triskelion. Were there
    Celtic influences in Armenia?"
  created: '2009-12-04 17:04:08'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\nHa! That church by the train station, is the one I got baptised
    in!\r\n\r\nTruth to tell, there is't all that much to see in Novosibirsk aside
    from the opera house (they have a terrific troupe) and the zoo, as the city is
    only a little over 100 years old, and most of that grew as part of the war effort
    when factories were being moved away from the front lines. The people are nice
    though, way nicer then Muscovites ;D\r\n\r\nEh, sorry for getting this so far
    off topic.\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal Art and
    Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-12-04 17:42:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Were there Celtic influences in Armenia?</cite>\r\nThe spiral symbolism
    predates the Celts. (and the Armenians too)"
  created: '2009-12-04 18:09:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ha! That church by the train station, is the one I got baptised in!\r\n\r\nWow!
    :-)\r\nDo you remember what it's called?\r\n\r\nGus, that's actually an extremely
    interesting question. Although the structure of the triskelion/eternity* can be
    considered \"intuitive\" enough to ascribe any similarity to coincidence (or a
    shared primordial \"culture\"), there are in fact some very strong visual similarities
    between the two cultures** that actually go well beyond that one symbol. This,
    in spite of the large geographic divide. Recently I heard an explanation of why
    that's the case, but I don't remember what it was, and I have a feeling it was
    apocryphal anyway.\r\n\r\n* BTW, just like the Nazis \"repurposed\" the swastika,
    the apartheid organization of Terreblanche in South Africa uses a triskelion!\r\n\r\n**
    Another culture that looks Armenian (or vice versa) is the Basque, along with
    its environs. I was in Banagu\xE1s once (a hamlet near Jaca, in Aragon) and the
    local church looked faintly but clearly Armenian to me. Actually the Basque <em>language</em>
    and from what I understand even the genotype seem related to us!\r\n\r\nThere's
    this one khatchkar in a very impressive (if run-down) church complex in the town
    of Talin (close to the Turkish border) that I saw this summer, with all the Celtic
    knot-work and everything! I'll try to find my photo of it (actually Nina was there
    too, and she takes better pictures). Pretty amazing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 18:16:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "We're so far off topic (sorry) but the Celtic-esqueness (hm) of some Armenian
    artefacts is indeed a super-interesting question.\r\n\r\nAt least in this case,
    it's definitely not true that my photos are so good. Hrant, from Talin I only
    have a photo of this one VERY Celtic-looking knot:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4158506482/\r\n\r\nAlso
    see: This altar in the Marmashen church complex in NW Armenia. Lots of celtic-esque
    knotwork:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4157743509/in/set-72157621769565969/"
  created: '2009-12-04 18:19:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/celtic-armenian_4898.jpg]'
  created: '2009-12-04 18:45:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks Nina!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-04 18:59:10'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Actually, the left one reminds me of the buddhist \"endless knot\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/180px-EndlessKnot03d_5019.png]\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endless_knot"
  created: '2009-12-04 20:24:56'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valknut\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_John%27s_Arms"
  created: '2009-12-05 11:58:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://www.harn.ufl.edu/beadwork/gallery/pages/kristintibbits/index.php
  created: '2009-12-05 14:52:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saint_John%27s_Arms\r\n> Unicode standards
    documents such as U2300 (Miscellaneous\r\n> Technical, Range 2300\u201323FF) call
    it the \"Place of Interest sign\".\r\n\r\nWhat do you guys think, would it be
    smarter to just use this for the Armenian eternity symbol, or to lobby the Consortium
    to give it its own code point? The main Armenian block does still have 10 empty
    slots, plus the symbol above might not be a good match neither in expected look
    nor assumed function*. I just never like the idea of submitting proposals to large
    organizations, pleading for attention, and then waiting for who knows how long.
    On the other hand, if there's a Unicode proposal in the works for the Dram maybe
    this can piggy-back?\r\n\r\n* In fact I can't tell if it's really supposed to
    be U+2300, or U+2318.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-05 15:42:46'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>if there\u2019s a Unicode proposal in the works for the Dram maybe
    this can piggy-back?</cite>\r\n\r\nI suppose that mr. Everson is the most qualified
    to answer this, since for what I gather he's an expert in submitting Unicode proposals
    (and I suspect that this was the \"more work\" he was referring to in his comment)."
  created: '2009-12-05 15:56:20'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026would it be smarter to just use this for the Armenian eternity
    symbol\u2026?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo think of catching one of the 2300 codepoints here
    is high nonsense. If you must  pinch a codepoint then serve yourself in the \u2013
    otherwise senseless \u2013 2700 block.\r\n\r\n<cite>I just never like the idea
    of submitting proposals to large organizations, pleading for attention\u2026</cite>
    \u2026 because it\u2019s too laborious (?).\r\nIf you can well document the sign\u2019s
    usage in connection with *text* (any liturgical books from the past \u2013?) than
    a proposal to ISO/UTC will perform almost automatically. Epigraphical samples
    usually count as much as nothing.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 11:49:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some encouraging news:\r\nThere has been a formal proposal submitted to Unicode\r\nconcerning
    the Dram. The proposed location is 058B,\r\nand it seems probable that by the
    middle of this year\r\nwe'll be able to safely put it there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 03:40:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>it seems probable that by the middle of this year we'll be able
    to safely put it there.</em>\r\n\r\nCaveat: Unicode strongly discourages implementation
    of any character before formal publication of the standard. Last minute changes
    to codepoint assignments is rare, but it has happened in the past."
  created: '2010-01-16 04:10:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is there a safer place (maybe somewhere out-of-the-way so to speak) to put
    something like this? Because not putting it at all seems the least feasible option
    (since it's already in use, hence expected to be present in an Armenian font).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 04:40:40'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "I just hit upon this forum and signed in;\r\n\r\nthere are webpages for Armenian
    Dram Sign, hopefully they would be useful for readers.\r\nhttp://www.armeniapedia.org/index.php?title=Armenian_Dram_Sign\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armenian_dram_sign\r\n\r\nNote:
    The proposed location \"058B\" in Unicode for Dram doesn't look like to be the
    appropriate one as the range 0530-058F in Unicode is for the letters; same may
    be referred to the other accepted national signs.\r\n\r\nKeep in touch pls for
    the further actions, as some works are on the way."
  created: '2010-02-16 14:25:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Welcome!\r\n\r\n> the range 0530-058F in Unicode is for the letters\r\n\r\nYes,
    but in some cases -such as Afhgani and Khmer- a\r\nnation's currency has ended
    up in its alphabetic block.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 17:45:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Unicode tends now to include currency signs within script blocks, rather than
    in a generic currency symbol block. I think this is a sensible idea, especially
    for a script that is so closely tied to a single language, because it makes it
    more likely that font makers will remember to include the symbol along with the
    letters to which it both visually and socially relates.
  created: '2010-02-16 20:51:09'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "Dear John,\r\nI highly appreciate your business as it benefits to communication
    through letters and characters :)\r\nYour (or anybody's else)idea about inclusion
    of monetary symbols within alphabetic block seems to be really helpful for the
    font designers. However, there are some considerations, which I'd like to present
    here.\r\n\r\nFirst, the monetary symbols belong to the block of simbols performing
    one-and-the-same function; otherwise anybody looking for the set of those symbols
    has to search through the whole Unicode and the alphabetic blocks of the world
    nations, which doesn't make sense. For instance, I could miss Afhgani and Khmer
    monetary symbols if not hitting upon them at this forum.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    the number of font designers are limited, and for their good it is better to contact
    the countries' institutions/developers to which they'd like to benefit to. Finally,
    there are state institutions, who are ISO members and make their official votes
    at Unicode.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-15 08:48:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This just hit me:\r\nA currency symbols should be \"next to\" the numerals
    used with it. So for a script that uses its own numerals the symbol should be
    in its own codepage; but for scripts that use Latin/Arabic numerals the symbol
    should be with all the others that do that. Is that too ghetto?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-15 14:05:44'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It hardly matters in which UC block a character ends up. An overall well-sorted
    standard, that horse \u2026 \r\n\r\nWhat hits *me* much more is the design issue.
    We have seen several new monetary signs born during the last few years. Most recent:
    Indian Rupee, Armenian Dram. \r\n\r\nFor me as a font designer the challenge is:\r\na)
    to make the glyph harmonizing with the writing system it is related to;\r\nb)
    to make the glyph suitable to the \uFB01gures it will get used with;\r\nc) to
    make the glyph fitting to the existing set of international currency signs it
    will be competing with;\r\nd) to equally manage a) to c).\r\n\r\nThat is quite
    a task, isn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nRelated:\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/73886|thread
    upon Sheqel design]]\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/72290|thread about Rupee design]]\r\n[[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=238|about
    regional currency signs in Germany and Austria (deutsch)]]"
  created: '2010-09-15 19:34:32'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: 'In the case of the Dram sign, it is clearly based on a letter of the alphabet,
    rather than on something recognizably generic. As there is space in the Armenian
    block, it is sensible to put i there. '
  created: '2010-09-20 01:25:04'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Hrant... this \"eternity sign\" is in lots of fonts. \r\n\r\nSo... what do
    people use it for?"
  created: '2010-09-20 01:27:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To mean Eternity.  :-)\r\nActually I think they just use it to feel more
    Armenian.\r\nYou know, the more I think about it, the more it seems\r\nnot to
    belong in Unicode. On the other hand, there's no\r\nshortage of room, so...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-20 02:41:43'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Smithsonian Magazine's Annual Museum Day to feature Armenian history and
    culture\r\n\r\nhttp://www.almainc.org/calendar_events_smithsonian.html"
  created: '2010-09-20 04:41:04'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "quote: An overall well-sorted standard, that horse \u2026 \r\nWhat hits *me*
    much more is the design issue.\r\ncomment: that is what it is, and it is true.\r\n\r\nquote:
    In the case of the Dram sign, it is clearly based on a letter of the alphabet,\r\ncomment:
    a) the Currency Symbols block compiled the symbols which are clearly accociated
    with the various alphabets, so what is different for the Dram symbol? \r\nb) the
    key matter for the Currency symbols is the presense of the strokes, as they make
    them the symbols and not letters;\r\nc) the vacant space in a letter block doesn't
    sound to be a good point of the specific symbols inclusion; again piling all together
    is the designers' issue only and not a matter of functionality;\r\nd) finally,
    if there is Currency Symbols block why to disperse the new symbols?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 09:08:48'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "quote: So... what do people use it for?\r\nquote:  To mean Eternity. :-)
    Actually I think they just use it to feel more Armenian.\r\n\r\ncomment: \r\na)the
    Eternity sign is summoned to organize texts paragraphs, similarly, for instance,
    to the sign \xA7 (&#167; &sect) in Russian;\r\nb)the Unicode has some very typical
    national symbols already, so being 'UNI' this database may include some other
    national well-known symbols as well;\r\nc) the symbol has been widely used by
    Armenians throughout their history."
  created: '2010-09-21 09:35:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the Eternity sign is summoned to organize texts paragraphs\r\n\r\nReally?\r\nThat
    would be a shame.\r\n\r\n> the Unicode has some very typical national symbols
    already\r\n\r\nThat's a good point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 13:06:09'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "Hrant, the paragraphs for instance, actually there may be much more for the
    Eternity Sign; what you name a 'shame' would be honoring the sign. It is clear
    that each language uses its national symbols.\r\nIn my understanding the Unicode
    can barely embrace all the national symbols, can it? "
  created: '2010-09-21 15:54:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's a shame because our Eternity sign has an ancient, loaded meaning, and
    it's embarrassing to see it used for generic formatting.\r\n\r\n> In my understanding
    the Unicode can barely embrace all the national symbols, can it?\r\n\r\nDo you
    mean there's not enough room for all such symbols? That's certainly true; so we
    have to be picky.\r\n\r\nI'm not really opposed to having the Armenian Eternity
    sign in Unicode, I just wouldn't want to see people dumping everything in there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 16:03:50'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: Being picky do not prevent from placing some key symbols; there is a number
    of national symbols present in Unicode already.
  created: '2010-09-24 13:25:09'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "In ISO/IEC JTC1/SC2 N4156, SARM, the Armenian National Institute of Standards
    made in its comments a request for the encoding of the Armenian Eternity Sign.\r\n\r\nArmenia
    is not a P-Member of the Subcommittee responsible for the Universal Character
    Set, and their comments did not include the Proposal Summary Form and so unless
    a proper proposal is made then the only thing that the committee will do is say
    \"Noted\".\r\n\r\nI am putting together a proposal. There is VERY LITTLE TIME.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    please, please. Do <em>any</em> of you have examples of this symbol used <strong>in
    text</strong>? It is no good to say that it is used to organize paragraphs. That
    is just a rumour without some sort of evidence.\r\n\r\nAlso it appears from the
    SARM comment that two will be needed, right-facing and left-facing. They did explain
    a particular usage scenario: \"Right and left rotations have accordingly active
    and passive meanings, as in case of Swastika, and are used in order to accentuate
    these meanings. For example, a cradle for \u0430 boy is decorated with the right
    whirling eternity sign and a cradle for \u0430 girl with the left whirling eternity
    sign.\"\r\n\r\nWe do have RIGHT-FACING SVASTI SIGN and LEFT-FACING SVASTI SIGN
    so I would see little problem in having RIGHT-FACING ARMENIAN ETERNITY SIGN and
    LEFT-FACING ARMENIAN ETERNITY SIGN.\r\n\r\nEvery few years I see people complaining
    that this isn't in Unicode. Every few years I make a plea like this. Evidence,
    folks, please?"
  created: '2010-09-24 13:57:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Michael, do you need printed/written text, or would things like inscriptions
    on buildings help too?
  created: '2010-09-24 15:06:55'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Printed/written text. I have some xa\u010Dk'ar images already. If there is
    an inscription on a building <em>with text</em> maybe. But look, it's been in
    fonts for more than a decade. So what are people using the font image for?"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:10:01'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: 'Hm. 07:20. Maybe Hrant will wake soon... '
  created: '2010-09-24 15:21:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I never sleep. And that's the problem. More aysap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 20:23:41'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: 'I am supposed to file my document today, but it must be tomorrow. I have
    a draft. '
  created: '2010-09-24 21:26:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For the public record:\r\nI don't remember seeing the Armenian Eternity use
    in text for anything more than random decoration, and that's pretty rare too.
    On the other hand, the same is true of many other symbols in Unicode.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-25 15:28:05'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I included Armenian Dram in my font project, but my design is probably not
    as good as the sign deserves. Could you please criticize it?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dram_3698.gif]\r\n\r\nPlease
    ignore spacing/kerning as this is not set by now. Thanks in advance."
  created: '2010-09-25 16:55:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looks fine to me.\r\nWhat does your Yen look like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-25 17:44:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, hrant. Yen:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yen_5953.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-25 18:30:30'
- author:
    name: kenko
    picture: 119252
  body: "> I included Armenian Dram in my font project, \r\nthank you for that!\r\n\r\n>
    but my design is probably not as good as the sign deserves. Could you please criticize
    it?\r\nwell, generally looks ok, however let me think about spasing/kerning.\r\nOn
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armenian_dram_sign there are the samples of my first
    attempts to shape it."
  created: '2010-09-29 23:03:02'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "I have the pleasure to inform you that last month in Korea ISO/IEC JTC1/SC2/WG2
    accepted both the RIGHT-FACING ARMENIAN ETERNITY SIGN and the LEFT-FACING ARMENIAN
    ETERNITY SIGN as proposed in http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3924.pdf\r\n\r\nInstead
    of encoding these in the Armenian block at U+05BD and U+05BE, the committee suggested
    encoding these in Plane 1, in the Miscellaneous Symbols and Pictographs block,
    at U+1F53E and U+1F53F. \r\n\r\nI have written to SARM to ask whether this allocation
    is OK with them, or if they prefer them to be encoded in the Armenian block itself. "
  created: '2010-11-02 10:34:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wonderful! Many thanks for your efforts, Michael.\r\nAny news concerning
    the Dram?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 13:17:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael has just informed me that the Dram is confirmed, at 058F.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-20 19:20:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Confirmed, yes, but not published yet. Which is to say that it is <em>probably</em>
    okay to start using that codepoint for the Dram symbol, but some implementers
    have a policy of waiting until a character is in a published version of the standard.
  created: '2011-03-20 19:27:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, good to know.\r\nSo is that what July is?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-20 19:29:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Incidentally, while I originally thought the Armenian eternity symbol was
    an odd thing to put in Unicode, in looking up information about the older coding
    standards for the Armenian language, I noticed that one of them included it. This
    is probably why it is in Unicode, since one of the goals of the project is to
    permit text encoded in any older character coding standard to be converted to
    Unicode and back again.
  created: '2011-03-22 13:20:23'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "The eternity characters were encoded on the basis of [[http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3924.pdf|this
    proposal]].\r\n\r\nThe code position of the dram is certain; the encoding position
    of the eternity characters is still uncertain."
  created: '2011-03-22 20:41:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So Unicode 6.1 is out, and the Armenian Dram is now official (at U+058F).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "Hrant,\r\nDo you have a very good example that might serve as a respectable
      model for the glyph?"
    created: '2012-02-01 22:55:09'
  created: '2012-02-01 20:35:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@hrant &ndash; Yer gunna hoist a wee dram to that?'
  created: '2012-02-02 12:22:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Clearly I think the ones in Ernestine and Nour&Patria are good models.  :-)\r\nThe
    one in the Unicode PDF isn't (the bars are sitting too high).\r\n\r\nStructurally,
    the \"normal\" way to do it is to take U+0534,\r\ntake off the rightward protrusion
    off the stem, and add\r\ntwo bars crossing the stem; the bars might go further
    to\r\nthe left than the right. BTW, in a text font you're unlikely\r\nto be able
    to get away with using a single bar because of\r\nthe character's proximity to
    U+0534 (although context\r\nwould resolve any ambiguity 99% of the time).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    more like a pint!\r\nhttp://www.sovereignimports.com/?page_id=4\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-02 14:58:27'
date: '2009-12-03 13:49:28'
title: Armenian Dram Sign

---
