---
author:
  name: evanmacdonald
  picture: 115105
body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nI am working on a research-style article about type over
  the past ten years. In today's information age, it seems that as much happens in
  ten years now-a-days as did in a century before the industrial revolution.\r\n\r\nI'd
  like to discuss the following (this is a rough, off the cuff list):\r\n\r\n\u2022
  Type design ( the actual type faces, the designers, technology, driving forces behind
  new designs, and so on)\r\n\u2022 How type is being distributed (things like the
  smaller foundry, and so on)\r\n\u2022 The good the bad and the ugly (I couldn't
  resist)\r\n\u2022 Trends in type design and typography\r\n\u2022 The ever changing
  world of web type (things like typekit, browser changes, etc)\r\n\r\nI would like
  some input as to what you would like to see in such an article. Who should I interview?\r\n\r\nAlso,
  if you have a tip, a resource, an article with valuable info that could be used
  in my research, please share!\r\n\r\nI am excited about this project, and a little
  nervous! Thanks all!\r\n\r\nEvan MacDonald\r\n[[http://www.evanmade.com]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...as much happens in ten years now-a-days as did in a century before
    the industrial revolution.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, there was the Incunabula.\r\nI imagine
    Venice at the time of Jenson et al was pretty intense.\r\n\r\nYour project is
    vast.\r\nThere was an article a few years ago in Eye, about how the type world
    had matured into a more business-oriented entity after the experiments of the
    digital revolution, which might make a reference point on which bases to touch."
  created: '2009-12-04 17:59:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You should include Legato, since it's the most significant font since Gutenberg.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-05 16:15:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wrote <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/NewPlast.pdf\">an article</a>
    on 21st century fonts about six years ago, showcasing new designs.\r\nI had recently
    been slagging the same old stuff (Helvetica etc.) so thought it was time to wax
    positive.\r\nWhat strikes me now is the huge proliferation of new designs since
    then. Many of these are not just interesting deconstructions (which was prevalent
    in the previous decade), but thorough and sophisticated type systems.\r\nIMO the
    two things driving this are both represented in the OpenType format: broader language
    support and expert typography (small caps, alternate figures, contextual alternates,
    etc.) via OT features.\r\n\r\n<em>...it\u2019s the most significant...</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the world according to Hrant, which doesn't always correspond with reality.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-05 23:12:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, envy is not a virtue. For the record, I do feel you're way above average
    in terms of originality. But from my personal perspective, the highest mountains
    are on the other side.\r\n\r\nConcerning Legato: I admit that statement seems
    over-the-top, but I really don't like sensationalism (evidence: I'm a fan of text
    faces much more than display faces). However, from the -admittedly esoteric- things
    I've come to value in type design over the years, there really hasn't been anything
    as significant. And anybody who's been paying attention will admit this is not
    an isolated, irrational sentiment; many many people believe Legato is extremely
    special, at the very least.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-06 00:17:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, if Legato is so significant, why is it so little used in practice,
    and where are the other faces, in the five years since its release, that build
    on its theory?\r\n\r\nYes, it is esoteric and special, and of course it is significant
    in the smaller sense, as most new typefaces are, but not in the larger sense of
    having a great effect on the type world, which is the least one would expect of
    anything touted as \"most significant\". \r\n\r\nHas the Legato idea acquired
    any traction at Reading or KABK?"
  created: '2009-12-06 22:22:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[Semi-existential theorization ahead. I'm only gonna do this once.]\r\n\r\nI
    believe that media, tools, and processes shape results. And I think the story
    of digital type (in the sense both of type being <em>produced</em> and <em>used</em>
    digitally), in the broader context of digitalization in toto, can be compared
    to \"paradigm shifts\" in other medial contexts, following the advent of new media
    \u2013 like for instance the oft-cited invention of photography (and how it developed
    vis-\xE0-vis painting); film and how it found its own language apart from the
    theater; or more recently, the advent of the WWW, as opposed to print media.\r\nWe
    are, I think, presently caught in the middle of this shift.\r\n\r\nI am basing
    the following on my reading of German media theorist, Michael Giesecke. He observes
    \u2013 which I think is a very plausible working model \u2013 that such \"paradigm
    shifts\" in media typically develop over three phases (which however aren't clearly
    delimited, especially not chronologically):\r\n\r\nThe <em>first phase</em> sees
    the new medium imitating the old medium, both in terms of \xE6sthetics and functionality.
    See for example the first web pages that inherently consisted of long scrolling
    text, \"as if it was printed\"; or the first films that were essentially theater
    scenes with a camera where the audience would sit. \r\nIn type, this is where
    I'd place not only revivals, but also type produced today that emulates old models
    without adding much of a new perspective, citing familiarity as a basic virtue.
    What's quite baffling BTW is that chirographic type isn't only stuck in imitating
    the <em>previous</em> medial model (which would be phototype, or metal) \u2013
    but it's even stuck in imitating the ancient medial model that came before that!\r\n[Note:
    Since type is a tool rather than simply an art form, work that appears stuck in
    this phase might have more value/importance than in other fields, or maybe just
    take longer to lose its relevance.]\r\n\r\nThe <em>second phase</em>, which typically
    sets in rather quickly, is about experimentation, and radical emancipation of
    the New from the Old. That's where your deconstruction comes in, the articles
    set in Wingdings, fonts that experiment on the formal front (You Can Read Me,
    etc) as well in terms of new technological possiblities (like Beowulf). The results
    of this kind of work/search aren't always useful (or even usable), and not always
    pretty; and that's also not what they're about \u2013 but they're vital for opening
    up new perspectives on what the new medium can do that the old one couldn't; for
    getting rid of old sludge; for gathering the courage to think afresh.\r\n\r\nOut
    of this courage grows the <em>third phase</em>, which I think we have slowly been
    sliding into in very recent times. This is about the new medium finding its <em>own</em>
    language, an \xE6sthetics and functionality that is inherently its own, that has
    grown from its own capabilities, its advantages and hindrances, its means of production,
    in dialogue and friction with the tools that shape it. The fruits of this phase
    aren't just New, they're also Usable, and define themselves somewhat independently
    from the Old. \r\nOn the technological front, this means new possibilities for
    example per the OT format; tellingly, the use of OpenType Features has recently
    become more widespread, but also in a way more subtle, more \"undercover\", subscribing
    more to usability and usefulness than to extravagance, flashiness and Newness.
    \r\nFinally, formally, this beginning third phase is <em>exactly</em> where I,
    too, would place Legato as a landmark design. It's not the only one, but quite
    possibly the most significant one. And that is because Legato deconstructs the
    Old Ways, but not in a destructive way. It deconstructs the Old Ways to find something
    inherently New that is also ultimately Usable, and that's why it's, also in my
    book, quite possibly the most important typeface so far of the digital era; a
    digital era that is coming of age, and has largely passed the PoMo tempers of
    its youth to find its own identity and value."
  created: '2009-12-06 23:01:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "And Nick: The fact that not everyone sees Legato as significant doesn't automatically
    mean that it isn't. Also, it can appear significant to some people and not to
    others. It can influence some people but not others. \r\nIf you like comparing
    type to art: How many artists that we think of as significant today weren't recognized
    in their own time, maybe because they were too \"new\", or maybe because their
    work didn't make sense to the other practitioners \u2013 or maybe because it simply
    didn't seem all that significant? :)"
  created: '2009-12-06 23:04:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "To my eyes, latin type design has been a remarkably conservative art. \r\n\r\nThe
    great breakthrough of Jenson and Griffo in the 16th century was only subtly, though
    decisively different from the scribal hands of the day. The 19th century was perhaps
    the most innovative period in creating fat faces, clarendon and the sans, and
    various decorative types. The 20th century seems to me to be a return to conservatism,
    with the main innovation being the use of sans for text. But otherwise a refinement
    of Victorian and earlier styles. \r\n\r\nThere have been stylistic changes right
    along, in harmony with other movements in the decorative arts, such as architecture
    and painting. But I don't see anything as innovative as the 19th century.\r\n\r\nThe
    main innovation of the film and computer type eras seems to be the production
    of huge families of closely related sans in multiple widths and weights, such
    as Univers and many others that have followed. The film and particularly computer
    era has also allowed the proliferation of script types, used where before hand
    lettering would have been used.   \r\n\r\nI don't know if we are going to have
    more big innovation, as in the 19th century, but if so I suspect it will come
    from new technology, such as designing for the screen, and use of open type, as
    well as the greater cross-cultural currents. \r\n\r\nI'm not particularly a fan
    of this conservatism, but neither do I have a big problem with it in the field
    of type. It does seem to me a reality. The changes in science and society have
    been much more dramatic over the same period, compared to changes in type. "
  created: '2009-12-06 23:48:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick: Not the lack of popularity, but the lack of designers being inspired
    is admittedly worrisome. This is something I pointed out during my talk in Mexico
    City; I'm trying hard to encourage people to break the cycle of ideological lethargy.
    It's not easy - it's notable that I haven't done much with it myself! :-/ So it's
    not due to a lack of desire - it's due to the great intellectual difficulty it
    entails. The way we've been taught to make letters since we start <em>crawling</em>
    -namely, with skeletons- is very hard to overcome.\r\n\r\nLooking at educational
    institutions is not a good benchmark however; the <em>teachers</em> would have
    to come from a new generation for us to see any real shift there.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    when analyzing Legato and its potential relevance, instead of merely focusing
    on phenomena, one should consider <em>why</em> people think Legato is special,
    and discuss <em>that</em> (although probably not here). And this is where I frankly
    don't get how anybody can minimize the relevance of making a clean break from
    type's misguided \"painterly\" past (and really, present).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-06 23:59:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>How many artists that we think of as significant today weren\u2019t recognized
    in their own time, </em>\r\n\r\nBut how, in their own time, do you propose to
    differentiate those that will have chapters written about them in history books,
    from those that will at best be footnotes, if not forgotten?\r\n\r\nSurely you
    have to wait for something to be widely used, copied and acclaimed before it can
    be deemed \"most\" important?\r\nIt's not enough to take the word of a passionate
    advocate, no matter how well informed.\r\n\r\n<em>I frankly don\u2019t get how
    anybody can minimize the relevance of making a clean break from type\u2019s misguided
    \u201Cpainterly\u201D past (and really, present).</em>\r\n\r\nFirst, one would
    have to recognize and accept that the past was painterly and misguided, which
    most do not.\r\nEvert didn't help his cause by not demonstrating his theory in
    a more didactic manner. As I commented when the technical details of Legato were
    discussed here, the manner in which the axis of the negative space (counter) outline
    is rotated, in relation to the solid outline, is rather fuzzy, and could be miscontrued
    as rough or intuitive chirography or lettering.\r\n\r\nEvert's idea doesn't interest
    me enough to incorporate it into a type design (yet), but Hrant, why don't you
    design a face which more clearly demonstrates the principle of independent axes
    of stress for postive and negative shapes?"
  created: '2009-12-07 03:38:18'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Out of this courage grows the third phase, which I think we have slowly
    been sliding into in very recent times. This is about the new medium finding its
    own language, an \xE6sthetics and functionality that is inherently its own, that
    has grown from its own capabilities, its advantages and hindrances, its means
    of production, in dialogue and friction with the tools that shape it. The fruits
    of this phase aren\u2019t just New, they\u2019re also Usable, and define themselves
    somewhat independently from the Old.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is a small, small threadjack,
    forgive me, but this is such a wonderful contribution altaira, and I want to ask
    the community:\r\n\r\nHas Graphic Design reached this point?\r\n\r\nIn one of
    my essays, I'm attempting to define Graphic Design as its own medium. As it stands,
    I have found graphic design to be nothing more than the thoughtful consideration
    of (the principle) fields of Illustration, Photography, Printmaking, Typography,
    and Communication brought together in a single object/medium/vehicle."
  created: '2009-12-07 03:54:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick: it's both natural and commendable for people to see greatness in something
    way before it might become popularly accepted as great. And a person sees this
    greatness based -hopefully- on what he/she believes the world really needs, or
    will need.\r\n\r\n> First, one would have to recognize and accept that the\r\n>
    past was painterly and misguided, which most do not.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n> Evert
    didn\u2019t help his cause by not demonstrating\r\n> his theory in a more didactic
    manner.\r\n\r\nAlso agreed. He was a timid soul; I've only heard one story about
    him getting worked up. But maybe that's what allowed him to focus on the problem
    and find a solution, instead of preaching it too much.\r\n\r\n> the manner in
    which the axis of the negative space (counter) outline\r\n> is rotated, in relation
    to the solid outline, is rather fuzzy\r\n\r\nThis must me some sort of cosmic
    moment: agreed yet again! As I've said before -although rarely- Evert was too
    Modernist in his approach. He didn't learn to \"let go\". Few do. I think the
    realization that a designer simply cannot control everything is the secret ingredient
    he had yet to acquire. That said, he had genius in him (and I never use that word
    lightly). In many ways he reminds me of Dwiggins - who had his own limits.\r\n\r\n>
    why don\u2019t you design a face which more clearly demonstrates the\r\n> principle
    of independent axes of stress for postive and negative shapes?\r\n\r\nThis is
    exactly the sort of thing that takes years to gestate. I've had almost a decade
    so far, so I guess I'm a sloth. However, when I got back from Mexico City, I was
    going to sleep every night thinking about what the lc \"n\" should really look
    like. After 4 nights I got something. All I will say here and now is: almost no
    type designer will accept it.* But I have to find strength in the truth that we
    don't design type for type designers. If it takes decades for people to \"get
    it\", so be it.\r\n\r\n* Unlike Legato, which virtually nobody hates. Which is
    of itself very impressive - changing the rules completely without turning off
    users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 04:25:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...it\u2019s both natural and commendable for people to see greatness
    in something way before it might become popularly accepted as great. </em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    also presumptuous.\r\nHow can one predict which cult favorite will reach the tipping
    point?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 04:42:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Presumptuous? It's just a result of wanting and thinking.\r\nPredicting?
    Impossible. We just try; we must try.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-07 05:07:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Design something, don't fucking think about it. Philosophies are immature.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-12-07 06:55:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Philosophies are immature\r\n\r\nSome, but not all. The more immature tend
    to be more dogmatic."
  created: '2009-12-07 14:32:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed William. What I meant was that a certain point your philosophy should
    be pretty much formed, although it is always a work in progress. Then it's time
    to do the work, which is in accordance with your philosophy if you are working
    honestly. In musical terms it's time to stop practicing and start playing.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-12-07 20:50:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I hope you can now admit that I'm not some\r\ndeluded loner in my high
    admiration for Legato:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65229\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 18:29:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "hrant - Fans are chained, free yourself.\r\n\r\nIf not now, when?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-12-13 07:52:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not fans, but brothers-in-arms.\r\nThere is no freedom without responsibility.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-13 15:59:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Real progress comes from the individual.\r\nFreedom and responsibility are
    a set of glyphs.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2009-12-13 20:06:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I hope you can now admit that I\u2019m not some deluded loner</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    Nina and St\xE9phane were to state, as you did, that Legato is \"the most significant
    font since Gutenburg\", I would say they are equally mistaken.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-13 23:13:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And Frode, and Justin. Many people see Legato as being very special, even
    if they don't give it the superlative that I did. But anyway you think anybody
    who mentioned any font in that thread is mistaken. To you, it's all transient
    fashion anyway. Text font, shmext font; reading, shmeading.\r\n\r\nThe thing is,
    whether you agree with any of us or not, it's clear that you underestimate -or
    intentionally ignore- the admiration Legato commands in our field. And if that
    merely makes it fashionable, then on your island it must be a success!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-13 23:54:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...you underestimate -or intentionally ignore- the admiration Legato
    commands in our field.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think admiration counts for much, certainly
    when one is talking about \"the most significant font since Gutenburg\".\r\nI
    would expect to see widespread usage, clones, and derivative work.\r\n\r\nIf these
    are not forthcoming, and we have to rely on ad hoc \"admiration\" expressed in
    online forums, that may conceivably be used as a measure of success, but it could
    be better organized, like \"Top 10 fonts of the decade, as voted for at Typophile.com\".
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 00:37:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I would expect to see widespread usage\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is happy
    apple-and-orange comparing again. \r\nPopularity does not define significance.
    At least not to everyone here.\r\n\r\nEcho alone does not define the voice of
    a design,\r\nand its inner strength.\r\n\r\nLegato is too inconspicuous to be
    picked up by the Horde as the New Hype\r\n(and within just a few years of its
    creation too). No, not everyone can see it; \r\nbut it moves. And I for one believe
    that type, like other cultural artefacts, \r\ncan move things, can slowly transform
    preconceptions, also moving below \r\nthe surface. I believe Legato has the power
    to do that. Not on its own; but it is \r\na major piece in the puzzle.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if your idea of a Top 10 List that makes sense is just to pick the 10 most popular
    and widespread faces, that's not hard to do at all \u2013 go ahead. It's just
    much less interesting.\r\nAnd sorry to do this, but it really is \"Gutenberg\"."
  created: '2009-12-14 02:48:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As I've written before, I also am not a fan of Legato. For me it's a very
    interesting experiment, well executed, but not successful aesthetically nor any
    breakthrough in readability. And I don't expect its main innovation--the opposite
    twists of the counter and outsides--to be particularly influential.\r\n\r\nI was
    looking forward to Kris Sowersby's Karbon as being a good type influenced by Legato,
    but without adopting its 'opposite twist' idea. \r\n\r\nBut I see that in its
    nearly finished state, Karbon shows less influence of Legato than it did at first,
    at least to my eyes: \r\n\r\nhttp://klim.co.nz/karbon_samples.php"
  created: '2009-12-14 03:57:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not liking something is one thing, refusing to admit that a notable\r\nnumber
    of <em>qualified*</em> people consider it very significant is another.\r\n\r\n*
    I mean type designers, nothing more elitist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 04:36:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Karbon shows less influence of Legato than it did at first\"\r\n\r\nIt
    does not look at all like Legato to me, it is actually a bit more like my unreleased
    Dez Superego in some ways. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/3157744858/sizes/l/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-14 05:09:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hrant - I believe you love Legato because a contrarian with an enormous amount
    of talent executed it.\r\nBut\r\nDid punk rock solve music? Or is it just another
    genre? It was only useful before people discovered it.\r\n\r\nPut up or shut up.
    Let's see the glyphs. You are a great theorist and writer. Execute.\r\n\r\nI am
    not a type designer, a type theorist, just a user.\r\n\r\nThe nature of creativity.
    My take:\r\nBeing too fond of something is akin to paralyzation. Beware of idols.\r\n\r\nThank
    god for autodidacts. I believe Bloesma would agree.\r\n\r\nBTW - I took a close
    look at Legato last night, and it is amazing.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 05:58:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Popularity does not define significance.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not what
    I said or believe.\r\n\r\nI said that I would expect a type that is \"the most
    significant font since Gutenb*rg\" to have widespread usage and a great effect
    on the type world.\r\n\r\nSo far Legato hasn't, which is not to deny its following
    amongst the cognoscenti.\r\n\r\nNina, shouldn't something that is to be considered
    \"most\" significant require mainstream recognition?\r\n\r\nAre there any typefaces
    that have had great significance, which have not become popular or spawned schools?\r\n\r\nNow
    you may say, Legato could yet do that, and I would agree, it's not impossible.\r\nBut
    Hrant's statement was not conditional.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 07:49:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul. Thanks for the motivation.\r\n\r\n> shouldn\u2019t something that is
    to be considered \u201Cmost\u201D\r\n> significant require mainstream recognition?\r\n\r\n1)
    After <em>decades</em>, rarely after 5 years, especially when it comes to such
    an obscure field as type.\r\n2) <em>Only</em> to the degree that people bring
    it up and discuss it.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, everybody knows that sometimes
    a great idea never makes it. Humanity errs.\r\n\r\nConditional? I don't get it.
    I believe it is the most significant font (which is not to say it's more significant
    than all other fonts combined, or even a select group of fonts combined - simply
    that no other <em>single</em> font is as significant) so naturally I believe it
    will most probably affect the future. I think the problem here isn't what I believe,
    but simply the fact that: Legato's claim to fame is functional, and your world
    revolves around style; and you don't seem to like singularities - you like everything
    to make nice sense in a cultural continuum. But revolutions happen.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I wasn't going to say anything (at least not in that other thread) but you owe
    Nina a follow-up on your inquisition about her actually using Legato for real
    work. Not that you <em>must</em> use something to see it significance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 15:01:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ah, I was out of town. Thanks Hrant for summing up beautifully what would
    have been the biggest part of my reply, too.\r\n\r\nNick, maybe my \xABPopularity
    does not define significance\xBB wasn't concisely worded. What I meant \u2013
    and still think\_\u2013 is that you trust the marketplace too much in determining
    what can possibly be of significance. No, I do not believe in the mainstream crowning
    Significance Queens. Actually I believe the mainstream is very often particularly
    obsessed with very insignificant things. \r\nWe have different levels of trust
    in the masses, and we have different definitions of significance. But I've said
    that before. \r\n\r\nAnd while I wouldn't have said you \xABowe\xBB me a follow-up,
    I would certainly be curious what the point of your enquiry was. It appears that
    you like to stress that in your opinion, even people who love Legato don't use
    it enough; I do, now what?"
  created: '2009-12-16 17:30:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you trust the marketplace too much in determining\r\n> what can possibly
    be of significance.\r\n> ....\r\n> trust in the masses\r\n\r\nI think this populism
    is a front; in fact the masses are being used as a \"human shield\" of sorts.
    I believe the root problem is the desire to defend a form-motivated creative pleasure
    from intrusion by other people's functional needs; nevermind that these are the
    very people paying for the goods. Art versus Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 18:58:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> ... you trust the marketplace too much in determining what can possibly
    be of significance...It appears that you like to stress ...</em>\r\n\r\nNina,
    read my posts to see what I stress, not Hrant's bizarre interpretations of what
    I mean, think and \"desire\".\r\nAnd answer, please, are there any typefaces that
    have had great significance, which have not become popular or spawned schools?\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>...other
    people\u2019s functional needs.</em>\r\n\r\nPeople (readers and typographers)
    should decide for themselves what is readable, rather than listen to the crackpot
    psychological theories of self-appointed \"experts\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 20:46:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>crackpot psychological theories of self-appointed \u201Cexperts\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's
    the ticket!"
  created: '2009-12-16 21:03:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are there any typefaces that have had great significance,\r\n> which have
    not become popular or spawned schools?\r\n\r\nOf course there have. But of the
    ones that <em>have</em> resulted in all that, have they done it in 5 years? Anyway
    what would be the point of answering that question for you, when all you'd say
    is something like: \"Well, I guess you're wrong about it having been significant
    since it didn't become popular!\" There's no point really.\r\n\r\n> People (readers
    and typographers) should decide for themselves\r\n\r\nBut that's not what readers*
    are good at. They're good at cooking, counting, driving, whatever. Some of them
    know how to design a car engine, and the rest of us who don't know much about
    engines appreciate them for it without having any idea how they might do their
    job better. You might notice or not that your car engine has lower mpg than you
    suspect it should, but beyond that you're pretty clueless, and largely powerless.
    But the engine might in fact suffer from poor design, and <em>still</em> end up
    in cars, and get great reviews in stupid car magazines!\r\n\r\n* And too many
    graphic designers (a <em>typographer</em> is quite a rara avis) aren't good at
    that either!  :-/\r\n\r\nYou might cajole people by telling them they're in total
    control of themselves and they have within their minds everything they need, but
    to me that's deluded, and potentially unethical.\r\n\r\nCrackpot theory? Saying
    that there's more to quality than popularity is a crackpot theory? And are you
    pretending I'm the only one saying that?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAnd again: Could you
    please follow-up on your inquisition of Nina concerning actual use of Legato?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 21:11:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick, I read your posts. The parsing you'll have to leave up to my own brain.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"And
    answer, please\"</cite>\r\nI'm still thinking about it. Are you in a hurry?\r\nBTW,
    you're not answering my question either.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"crackpot psychological
    theories of self-appointed \u201Cexperts\u201D.\"</cite>\r\nI/someone should start
    a collection of these quotes, for the next time you claim <em>Hrant</em> drags
    <em>you</em> into some mud\u2026"
  created: '2009-12-16 21:25:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the next time you claim Hrant drags you into some mud\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    wearied of always being on the defensive.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nNina, if you read my
    posts, you would see that all I've been saying is that Hrant's statement that
    Legato is \"most significant font since Gutenberg\" is absurd. And I gave reasons:\r\n\r\n-
    it's not very popular (I don't have access to sales figures to support that, but
    I don't see it in high profile usage or pirated.)\r\n- it has had no influence
    on other type designs (again, I could be wrong).\r\n- it's too soon to say.\r\n\r\nHow
    do you parse that into I \"trust the marketplace too much in determining what
    can possibly be of significance\"?!\r\n\r\n@ Nick<em>...are there any typefaces
    that have had great significance, which have not become popular or spawned schools?</em>\r\n@
    Hrant <em>Of course there have.</em>\r\n\r\nNames, please.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-12-16 21:50:11'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "No offense Nick, but you <em>do</em> seem defensive. \r\n\r\nLet me try to
    reiterate. When Hrant made that statement about Legato, surely he didn't mean
    \"significance\" in terms of immediate impact, or sales; but <em>conceptual</em>
    significance (that in this case goes unnoticed quite easily), because it does
    something New where almost everybody else follows the Old. That's defining significance
    on a conceptual, on a theoretical level, and possibly on a practical level too
    (although I can't claim to quite grasp that part).\r\nYou, on the other hand,
    list criteria of popularity, usage, and impact on other designs. And I think that
    this definition, this list of criteria to determine what is significant and what
    isn't, places too much trust in what people-at-large (ie the mainstream, ie the
    market) think is significant. I believe something can be conceptually/culturally
    significant without the general public (which can also mean graphic designers
    at large) \"getting\" it. Maybe because it's too early, maybe because (as Hrant
    said) people err. And large crowds of people can err, too.\r\nLike I said: We
    have different definitions of what \"significant\" means.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"- it\u2019s
    too soon to say.\"</cite>\r\nWait \u2013 you say it's too soon to say that it's
    significant, \r\nbut it's not too soon to say that it isn't? :-\\"
  created: '2009-12-16 22:11:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I didn't say it couldn't become significant later.\r\n\r\n<em>I believe something
    can be conceptually significant without the general public (which can also mean
    graphic designers at large) latching on to it.</em>\r\n\r\nI wasn't debating that
    point.\r\nI was debating \"most significant font since Gutenberg\".\r\n\r\nWould
    you consider Fleischman's influence on (H&FJ) Mercury and (FB) Fargo to be an
    example of conceptual significance?"
  created: '2009-12-16 22:21:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Significant\" isn't always positive either.  Helvetica is significant partly
    because it is hated by many people. Others like it (for whatever reason) but a
    significant number of people are familiar with it but could care less. \r\nIf
    we define \"Significant\" as having had an impact on typography we get a different
    set of fonts than those we might say \"had a positive impact on the effectiveness
    of type design\".\r\nI would count Univers as having a significant impact because
    it brought about a much more systematic way of approaching type families that
    \ has been emulated frequently. I don't mean the numbering system, I mean the
    design approach and being a sans is not the issue. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-17 01:21:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve wearied of always being on the defensive.\r\n\r\nUnlike in Art,
    in Design defending comes with the territory.\r\n\r\n> And I gave reasons:\r\n>
    ....\r\n> - it\u2019s too soon to say.\r\n\r\nIf you had actually said that without
    reservation, I would have agreed. But what you've actually done is pretend to
    know that it's not significant. Like Nina said, you adopt something akin to \"guilty
    until proven innocent\".\r\n\r\nHowever, in any case your other two points are
    untenable - and that's what I've been arguing.\r\n\r\n> Names, please.\r\n\r\nI've
    already explained why that would be a futile exercise with you.\r\n\r\n> I didn\u2019t
    say it couldn\u2019t become significant later.\r\n\r\nThat's the thing: you think
    something can only be significant once it becomes popular. To some people -I would
    even say most people- that's insulting.\r\n\r\n> Would you consider Fleischman\u2019s
    influence on (H&FJ) Mercury\r\n> and (FB) Fargo to be an example of conceptual
    significance?\r\n\r\nVery good example. Tell me, how many years did that take?...\r\n(BTW,
    Farnham.)\r\n\r\nFor centuries Fleischmann's work was ignored. Was it insignificant
    until suddenly some people decided to revive it? If you listen to the things the
    designers who have done this say, you can see a clear and deep admiration for
    his <em>ideas</em>. When they describe the man, they use words like \"genius\".
    You must think these designers are actually charlatans who secretly only care
    about fashion...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAnd yet again: Could you please follow-up on
    your inquisition of Nina concerning actual use of Legato?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 01:50:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If you had actually said that without reservation, </em>\r\n\r\nAaaaaactually,
    I did: \"Surely you have to wait for something to be widely used, copied and acclaimed
    before it can be deemed \u201Cmost\u201D important?\" And I called you presumptuous.
    How much more unreserved do you want?\r\n\r\n<em>...you think something can only
    be significant once it becomes popular. </em>\r\n\r\nSorry, I don't respond to
    hypnosis. \r\n\r\n<em>For centuries Fleischmann\u2019s work was ignored. Was it
    insignificant until suddenly some people decided to revive it?</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    for the few to whom it meant something. The derivative typefaces gave it a greater
    significance.\r\n\r\n<em>You must think these designers are actually charlatans
    </em> \r\n\r\nI must? Because you said so? Still not a good subject for hypnosis.\r\n\r\n<em>...actual
    use of Legato?</em>\r\n\r\nShow and tell, Nina!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 03:25:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t respond to hypnosis.\r\n\r\nWhile you should realize that
    most people don't respond to subterfuge.\r\n\r\n> Not for the few to whom it meant
    something.\r\n\r\nNot for <em>society</em>, even though very few people had any
    idea.\r\nLeaning on popularity is a poor-man's excuse for designing poor type.\r\n\r\n>
    The derivative typefaces gave it a greater significance.\r\n\r\nYou must mean
    <em>any</em> significance, since before the revivals virtually no graphic designer
    had any idea - right?\r\n\r\nThe significance was always there; [enough] people
    simply didn't see it.\r\n\r\n> Show and tell, Nina!\r\n\r\nAre you pretending
    you just figured out what we've been asking for?\r\n\r\nIf you really did abandon
    that other thread, maybe it's because it wasn't working out for you anymore...
    This one isn't either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 03:44:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If you say so.
  created: '2009-12-17 04:27:29'
date: '2009-12-04 17:31:23'
title: 21st Century Type

---
