---
author:
  name: cfig
  picture: 114258
body: "Hi all, I'm working on a rebranding of a trio of female photographers, they
  were previously \"random grouping of initials\" photography and want to develop
  a more distinct identity to stand out in a crowded marketplace, and after some soulsearching
  have decided to go with simply \"the girls\" since that's how they're often referred
  to anyway.\r\n\r\nThey wanted to avoid the standard photography cliches of camera,
  lens, scripty typeface, etc., and wanted something feminine but not overly feminine
  that had a bit more of a fashion feel to it. I did some research and liked the idea
  of using a symbol that represented the 3 of them, and after running across a diagram
  of an exposure triangle I found interesting I developed this mark. To me it leans
  feminine and evokes a flower shape without being explicitly floral, has the abstrat
  photographic reference of the exposure triangle, could be used with or without the
  type, and should apply well across a variety of media. The typeface is Proxima Nova
  (please forgive the pixelation, using a screengrab as I haven't purchased the typeface
  yet). Thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls02_bw_6530.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A good start. I would try to make the white triangle a little bigger.\r\nThe
    typeface is a little soulless for my taste..."
  created: '2009-12-08 01:13:15'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Not digging the type too much. I think it would work better all one weight,
    and perhaps with something with a smaller x-height. \r\n\r\npenn"
  created: '2009-12-08 18:20:51'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Thanks guys, although I was kind of liking the typeface actually. I also
    liked the idea of the different weights as that would allow for adding of another
    word that would be clearly separated easily (the<strong>girls</strong>.com or
    whatever).\r\n\r\nAny typeface suggestions?"
  created: '2009-12-08 22:44:27'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I think I might also try the original mark just a bit smaller, rotated about
    45 degrees CW, and moved up above the top left of the t.\r\n\r\n...it has the
    feel of an asterisk to it, so I wonder if turning it a bit will break up this
    symmetry you have going on. (I see that you intended this, that right now the
    mark almost acts as a sort of anterior parenthetical).\r\n\r\nBut symmetry often
    bores me."
  created: '2009-12-11 21:50:52'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I actually really like the asterisk sort of idea, definitely up for trying
    that. The danger in rotating the mark, however, is that with a vertical stroke
    coming off the \"star\" you get the distinct impression of toxic waste...not quite
    what we're going for :)\r\n\r\nI think the direction you're thinking would have
    it pointing towards the upper left which I think could work. Let me do a bit of
    playing and see."
  created: '2009-12-12 18:47:09'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Awesome, can't wait to see it.\r\n\r\nValid point about toxic waste, though
    I assume this logo isn't going to be black and yellow. Once you figure out a color
    scheme you might just give the rotation a shot and see if the right palette helps
    it read as you intended.\r\n\r\nI also have to second not being in love with the
    chosen typeface. But I do see a good rationale for playing with the weights as
    you have--in terms of what you say might happen to it in the future (adding .com,
    etc.), right now it has the pleasing effect of balancing the logotype's heavy
    weight from the mark.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, good job. You always post nice logos
    on this forum, and as a designer who loves photography--I've enjoyed seeing the
    photographer logos you've created."
  created: '2009-12-12 19:04:44'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Thanks man, greatly appreciated. I've found a bit of a niche that's both
    challenging and provides some fun clients to work with, it's been good so far.\r\n\r\nI
    actually had some colors in mind that I'd been working with, I think the grey
    helps soften it overall and makes it a bit less contrasty. Looking at it I do
    think that the mark should be sized down a bit in any case, I also played with
    your thoughts using that color pallette as well. Kinda what you were thinking?
    I think it has potential.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls02_color_5056.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls03_color_4471.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-12 20:59:24'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "And another variant on the idea.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls04_color_5010.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-12 21:10:57'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: I don't know about the mark. It looks more like a propeller to me than anything
    else. Color considered I'm getting a "clean energy" or "recycling" kind of feel
    from it. My second guess would be a Japanese family crest. I think while the exposure
    triangle is a clever idea, it will elude 99.9% of people by being <em>very</em>
    obscure.
  created: '2009-12-12 22:13:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Once you raise the mark and add color, with "the girls" it starts to look
    like a little ribbon tied in a bow (esp. the version next to the /t/), which I
    don't think you want.
  created: '2009-12-12 23:36:46'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Yup, precisely what I was thinking in the second version of your new attempts.
    Def. reduce the mark's size as you said.\r\n\r\nI don't see a ribbon & bow myself.
    But if it looks a little girly, well, isn't that a good thing?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    it is a little obscure, but who hasn't seen an obscure mark on a logotype before?
    And for that matter, I've seen many that look nice but def. don't speak to the
    business in question. For me, as long as there is an original & relevant intent
    behind it--that it's not just a shape to be a shape, then that's acceptable to
    me. This speaks to the three-ness, and is born out of something photographic...
    I don't see the problem. "
  created: '2009-12-14 02:52:31'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "That's kind of where I come from on identity marks as well, as long as there's
    a connection back to the concept and the mark is strong enough to work I'm good
    with it.\r\n\r\nI can kind of see the bow thing now that you mention it, but it
    doesn't bother me and actually could sort of work with the concept. I'm going
    to play with the scale a bit more but I think the asterisk/offset idea could have
    potential."
  created: '2009-12-14 17:49:14'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, talked to the client a bit about this and it turns out they like the
    concept but it's actually not quite feminine enough for their tastes, they'd like
    something a bit more feminine but not \"girly\" (i.e. no pink).\r\n\r\nChanging
    up the color palette a bit and moving the blue to more of a lavender/purple helps,
    but I'm thinking the type choice could also be more appropriate. Any ideas on
    a maybe more feminine yet still well put together typeface that might work? Thanks.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls06b_4381.jpg]"
  created: '2009-12-21 17:57:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[[http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100033|Archer]]?\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/hubertjocham/safran/|Safran]]?\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/type-together/bree/|Bree]]?
    (You'd have to decide if that 'g' is working for you, assuming you stick with
    lowercase.)"
  created: '2009-12-21 18:25:43'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Some good suggestions, thanks. I do like Bree but that g is...questionable?
    It may grow on me, I'll have to see.\r\n\r\nI also ran across a free weight of
    [[http://www.itcchino.com/highlight_c.html|ITC Chino]] being offered and I think
    that might suggest the right sort of feel in one of the medium weights."
  created: '2009-12-21 22:06:48'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Just take g from another typeface if Bree seems to be working otherwise.
  created: '2009-12-21 22:10:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Actually [[http://www.type-together.com/Bree|Bree]] also offers a binocular
    /g/ as an alternate.
  created: '2009-12-21 22:13:01'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Alrighty, after a bit of a disconnect over the holidays I've been back with
    the client, and after a lot of review and discussion we've decided to go with
    something that's pretty much purely typographic. I've spent a lot of time looking
    at typefaces the past few days and like this attempt with Milo Serif. I'm curious
    if the dots (still trying to wrap the \"3\" idea in there somehow) feel forced
    or if that works, or if there might be another alternative to convey that idea?
    Thanks.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thegirls07_3565.jpg]"
  created: '2010-01-28 08:00:12'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>still trying to wrap the \"3\" idea in there somehow</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    about morphing together \"3\" and \"g\"?"
  created: '2010-01-28 09:54:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I like that except for the stubby ascenders.
  created: '2010-01-28 13:33:21'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Interesting idea riccard0, I'll have to play with that, thanks.\r\n\r\neliason,
    I think it's more a taller x-height than stubby ascenders...which I suppose amounts
    to the same effect in either case. I'm not totally sold on the typeface, but I
    like the overall feel."
  created: '2010-01-28 16:35:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Instead of those weird three dots at the bottom,\r\nwhat about making the
    dotless-i three vertical dots?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:02:43'
- author:
    name: cj1100
    picture: 116183
  body: "I like this direction better than the propeller. I would not try to make
    the g a 3+g combo. I have seen way to many numbers replacing letters in logos
    recently, but this is a personal stance.\r\n\r\nI like your 3 dots. I think playing
    with them in the I is also a good idea. You can cary the dots on through the entire
    identity. Leader lines could be dots. You can use centered dots instead of hyphens.
    Dots create great patterns. Lots of possibilities.\r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2010-01-28 22:47:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about making the \"e\" in \"the\" a flipped \"3\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 22:53:05'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "How about this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls3_5454.png]\r\nThree
    girls with potential :\xB7)"
  created: '2010-01-28 23:00:04'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Tomi, nice :)\r\n\r\nGreat thoughts all, been doing some sketching and I'll
    post some progress hopefully this weekend. Thanks!"
  created: '2010-01-29 17:42:19'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: I like Hrant's idea of making the 'e' in 'the' a backwards '3'. It could be
    done rather elegantly if it were done like the small caps in [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/letraset/eplica/|Eplica]]
  created: '2010-01-29 19:08:50'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Which is a font I happen to own...great suggestion, thanks!
  created: '2010-01-29 20:55:51'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, some revisions. I played with several numerica replacement ideas and
    liked some more than others.\r\n\r\nFirst was the \"TH3\" idea. I tried it in
    several different typefaces and didn't really find anything I loved. I felt like
    these with Reminga, Eplica, and Meta Serif were the best of the group but I don't
    love any of them, definitely need to work with the weights if I went this direction.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/th3girls_4720.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    \"3irls\" idea I actually found a lot more success with. After running through
    a number of different typefaces I found that Mrs Eaves has an attractive 3 that
    really lent itself well to work as a g, then a bit more playing revealed that
    it's actually a absolutely beautiful italic character (I'm really liking the bottom
    choice).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3irls01_5435.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    a look at it subsituting the dots as the i, which is ok but doesn't say much to
    me. I feel like this could have some potential, may do some more sketching/playing
    with it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls_dot_5451.jpg]\r\n\r\nAny
    thoughts? Thanks."
  created: '2010-02-04 07:28:42'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "The problem with the top ones (th3 girls) is that you're mixing small caps
    with lowercase. It also looks like you have 'the' scaled back, so the contrasting
    weights of the strokes don't mesh well either. \r\n\r\nIf you did want to explore
    that direction further I'd say you would need to go all small caps. I would also
    set the type on the same line. That way might be rather simplistic (possibly boring)
    but I think Eplica gives enough flavor to the characters, that it might work.
    And of course if additional flavor is needed, you can always edit the characters
    to your liking.\r\n\r\nI do like the lower experiments here with mrs. eaves. You're
    right about the italic working the best too. The one issue that may (or may not)
    become a problem will be that people might read it as 'the 3 girls'. Good stuff
    though.\r\n\r\nYeah, dots not workiiing.\r\n\r\n--\r\n<em>penn</em>"
  created: '2010-02-04 15:34:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe for the last one, you can make it an \"i\"\r\nstem cut into three parts,
    instead of three dots.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 15:37:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting stuff. \r\nFWIW the \"3irls\" potentially reads as \"zirls\"
    to me, with a descending \"z\" (and especially so in the italic version). But
    maybe that's a European/German thing.\r\n\r\nHow about a regular \"i\" but with
    3 tittles instead of just one? Stacked, or maybe try a triangle/circle/flowery
    arrangement. Might be nicely subtle."
  created: '2010-02-05 00:07:20'
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: "Seeing as \"the\" is not far off spelling \"three\" Possibly a direction
    to explore there too . . .\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture5_5111.png]"
  created: '2010-02-05 01:45:25'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Thanks all, some good thoughts and feedback. The more I've looked at it the
    more I like the idea of \"3irls\" over the other options. altaira, I think you
    seeing the \"z\" is a bit of a European perspective but I can definitely see where
    you're coming from.\r\n\r\nI think closing off the \"3\" just a bit does a lot,
    I played with adding an ear on the second variant but that's starting to look
    TOO much like a g and is losing it's \"3-ness\". Forgive the roughness, these
    are quick photoshop cut-and-pastes):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the3irls02_5555.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the3irls03_4054.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think with a bit of refinement the first could work really well. Any thoughts
    on \"the\"? I think it could be a bit heavier but there's only one other weight
    in Mrs Eaves and it's quite bold. Thanks guys."
  created: '2010-02-05 05:43:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, you could -carefully- make the \"the\" heavier manually.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 05:50:22'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I too read it \"zirls\", but I am of Cyrillic origins, so \"\u0437\" is unambiguously
    one of the alphabet letters for me."
  created: '2010-02-05 06:38:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, the \"i\" in Mrs Eaves Italic isn't properly slanted; because of the\r\n\"pothooks\"
    it looks like it's leaning left (which is a typical problem).\r\nTry moving the
    top and bottom vertices 2-4 units more apart.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 06:47:03'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Good eye hrant, thanks, very obvious now that you mention it. I think the
    kerning is pretty close other than that character. I may try manually adding a
    bit of weight to it as well, going to do some more experimenting with it this
    weekend.
  created: '2010-02-05 07:22:49'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: Really nice progress with this. I feel like you're really in the right direction
    and the italics works so well for this.
  created: '2010-02-08 19:04:08'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: How would the 'g' (3) look with a teardrop terminal, instead of squared off,
    on that top arm that you've extended?
  created: '2010-02-09 03:38:11'
- author:
    name: ishbog
  body: have you considered using the original logo with the star thing, except putting
    the star thing as the dot on the i?
  created: '2010-02-09 07:44:41'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I'm struggling with legibility in a lot of these. But the last one you posted,
    in your last post, was the easiest for me to understand.\r\n\r\nBut there does
    seem to be a lot of confusion!\r\nDoes E=3?\r\nDoes G=3?\r\nDoes 3=Z?\r\nDoes
    G=Z?\r\n\r\nYou've moved away from any association with photography that was present
    in your earlier sketches/comps. But whatever the solution is must be simple. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as the 3 goes, my thoughts go to the roman numeral III. Maybe that can be
    incorporated somehow instead of the I, or using the vertical strokes in the roman
    \"Gir\" or \"irl.\"  Of course, this might be too complicated as well!!"
  created: '2010-02-09 22:27:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I''m really liking the 3/g combo. That said, it feels a bit more ''3'' than
    ''g'' at the moment. I think the key is to make it blatantly a 3 and a nice ''aha!''  if/when
    folks discover the 3 hidden in it. '
  created: '2010-02-09 22:58:01'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Great thoughts all, thanks. aluminum, you lost me slightly...make it blatantly
    a 3 or a g? evanbrog, I don't disagree, I actually liked having a bit more concept
    in the originals but it's evolved a bit differently.\r\n\r\nIn any case, unfortunately,
    the client isn't totally on board. They're not opposed to integrating the idea
    of three somehow (dots, lines, etc.) but the very stylized serif idea just didn't
    work for them (the exact comment was that they \"thought that was a cool idea,
    but we're still drawn to the straight, simple, modern font (i.e. sans) similar
    to what we showed you\"). In other words, something in the almost purely typographic
    sans arena.\r\n\r\nSo I'm debating...I've been looking at some slightly stylized
    sans (Tondo or Bree were possibilities) but I'm worried it's going to be tough
    to convey a lot of personality in a really simple sans. Another thought was something
    like the example, combining the \"3\" idea with a nicely compatible sans (Mr Eaves)
    and letting that be the focus of the logo. I don't know that this quite works
    (definitely kerning adjustments needed) but I think the idea is on the right track.
    Thoughts? (penn, I'm going to play with the teardrop thought, interesting idea.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the3irls04_4381.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-10 07:27:54'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "How about\r\n\r\nGIRLS\r\nGIRLS\r\nGIRLS\r\n\r\n...are looking for a good
    time!\r\n\r\neach one can have their own voice (colour, tone, pattern, or even
    font)\r\n\r\nit's fun it's quirky and I think (with the right execution) could
    work perfectly.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 11:07:04'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: The 3/g in the last iteration is a little too much heavy.
  created: '2010-02-10 18:39:25'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: 'I just don''t think this idea works as well with the san serif. The scaling
    is definitely off between the g/3 and the rest of the test. '
  created: '2010-02-11 15:10:42'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "A name change would make this much easier! \"3 GIRLS\" kind of like the burger
    place Five Guys.\r\n\r\nI don't have any suggestions for the new direction so
    I'm just posting an image pertaining to your first direction. And that is to somehow
    use the symbol for a woman in an interesting manner.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_6507.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this somehow makes me think of a tripod when viewed from above. But that's a good
    association: 3, tripod, photographer, and 3 photographers..."
  created: '2010-02-11 23:51:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: That's what I saw too.
  created: '2010-02-12 00:28:55'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "or...a lesbian threesome.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;\r\nPaul\r\n--------------------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-02-12 00:41:46'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Nice.
  created: '2010-02-12 03:07:04'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, so we've got a Motley Crue song and a threesome...appreciate the input,
    but I don't think either is quite speaking to the image we're going for :)\r\n\r\nAgreed
    that the weights aren't working on the italic 3/g with the sans, that would need
    some work if it can even work at all.\r\n\r\nI've been going back through the
    previous options to see what I've done so far that I liked and felt might speak
    to the typographic desires of the client. I like the personality that Bree conveys,
    it's a bit cute without being overly feminine and I think has some really nice
    lines. The \"g\" is a love it or hate it sort of character, but I had the idea
    that that might work as a character to set off with the rest of the word set in
    all caps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thegIRLS_6627.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    did a rough photoshop thicken on the bold \"g\", the weights of the thin set would
    definitely need to be adjusted. The LS gap is a bit awkward too. I'm not sold
    on the placement of \"the\" at this point, but I think the overall feel is actually
    working really well. Thoughts?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-12 03:21:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Interesting idea. I think in addition to better weight matching, you might
    have to massage the way the curve meets the straight at the top of /g/ and /R/
    to be more similar. And, yes, bring the /S/ in.\r\n\r\nI kind of liked how the
    /e/ of \"the\" was serving as the tittle in some of your earlier versions - did
    you try that with this one?"
  created: '2010-02-12 03:32:21'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I had the thought but hadn't gotten around to doing it yet. Here you go:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thegIRLS02_4142.jpg]\r\n\r\nGood
    point on the G/R matching, I'll take a look at that."
  created: '2010-02-12 04:07:03'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I'd love to have over a month to develop logos.\r\n\r\nyou're clearly doing
    something right.\r\n\r\n\r\nlatest version has somethin ginteresting going on,
    but yeah the weights are all wacky, and I personlly don't think the and IRLS are
    well selected. Not sure about all caps?"
  created: '2010-02-12 07:22:58'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "A lot of the delay has actually been on their end, they all work full-time
    jobs so it takes a bit of time for them to all get together to discuss things.\r\n\r\n\"the\"
    and \"IRLS\" are actually the same typeface that the \"g\" is from, [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/typetogether/bree_complete/|Bree]].
    I thought the mixing of the lowercase \"g\" with the caps presented something
    a bit more distinct than setting it lowercase but I'm not opposed to the idea
    either.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls_lower_4510.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-12 19:11:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Well, it does solve your L_S spacing issue. And the /g/ is distinctive already
    without having to change case. \r\n\r\nI think it's working."
  created: '2010-02-12 19:17:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, I never realized before that \xABthe\xBB has 3 letters. In a way you
    do have a triple i-dot now. :-)\r\n(You might try reversing \xABthe\xBB, possibly
    in all caps, out of 3 black circles. But maybe that's too much.)"
  created: '2010-02-12 19:30:28'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: I like these last two. Feminine, modern, playful, but still professional.
    It doesn't blatantly say photography, and I like that. Tying this in to their
    profession as photographers could easily be executed by the identity system. (I'm
    interested to see what you come up with for that.)
  created: '2010-02-12 22:28:19'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: Lesbian threesome! Haha. I don't even know how that would work, unless they
    like, scissor or something...
  created: '2010-02-12 23:12:15'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, with some kerning adjustments, I think that g-i-r could be tightened
    up a bit the more I look at it. I tried a bolder version as well but I prefer
    these two, I have a feeling they're going to like the thin.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thegirls_final_4845.jpg]\r\n\r\nPenn,
    trying to decide how I want to take the identity system, been playing with some
    ideas but finding a typeface to complement this is a bit tough as I don't want
    it to take away from the identity. Thinking maybe going really simple with a gothic
    sans but not sure yet."
  created: '2010-02-16 06:47:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, I think the spacing in the two words should be more similar than it
    is here.\r\nIs there  way to finesse the spot where the /l/ and /s/ come together?
    (I even wonder if connecting them would work.)"
  created: '2010-02-16 13:45:10'
- author:
    name: nvhladek
    picture: 112094
  body: I'm still waiting to see an implementation of Ratbaggy's "GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS"
    suggestion. Was that dismissed as too risky or offensive?
  created: '2010-02-20 15:38:45'
- body: "nvhladek,\r\n\r\nGIRLS GIRLS GIRLS? \r\n\r\nIt's just three girls, yes?  \r\n\r\nWouldn't
    that be: GIRL GIRL GIRL? \r\n\r\n;) "
  created: '2010-02-21 09:36:21'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Heh. You just said it yourself... \"It's just three GIRLS, yes\"\r\n\r\n3
    x GIRLS\r\n\r\n3 x GIRL doesn't make sense ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 22:28:34'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "My main reason not to explore girls girls girls is that they seem to like
    the other direction and I'm at a point where I'm looking to get this completed
    :)\r\n\r\nThat being said, their comment on the last iteration was that they liked
    it but there was something about the \"g\" that they didn't like, could they see
    a more modern or less \"swirly\" font. I think the \"g\" is what makes it work
    as it's a unique character that sets it off, I tried to show them that by creating
    an identical version with Bree's more traditional two-story \"g\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thegirls_final02_5365.jpg]\r\n\r\nHaven't
    heard back yet on this, I don't dislike the more traditional version but it seems
    a bit boring to me. Any other thoughts for a typeface that might work? I'm thinking
    a nice clean sans but something with a bit of personality to it. Most of what
    I've tried ends up looking rather generic as there's not a lot of letters to work
    with. Thanks!"
  created: '2010-02-23 16:58:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Guess you were right about g's "love it or hate it" character!
  created: '2010-02-23 17:03:33'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: There are those rare times where I hate being right... :)
  created: '2010-02-23 20:49:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Here''s an idea: contact Nina Stoessinger ([[http://typophile.com/user/13487|altaira]]
    on Typophile) who is currently developing a slab serif (outdated critique thread
    [[http://typophile.com/user/13487|here]]) that has, I think, just the character
    you need for this, including an interesting /g/. Perhaps you can talk her into
    selling you the set of letters you''d need for the logo.'
  created: '2010-02-23 20:57:39'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: All their comments about 'modern, clean, less swirly' makes me think they
    want something like avant garde or helvetica thin. (yawn)
  created: '2010-02-23 21:09:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "My second link should go here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53395?page=2"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:23:18'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "<em>All their comments about 'modern, clean, less swirly' makes me think
    they want something like avant garde or helvetica thin. (yawn)</em>\r\n\r\nOnly
    one way to make that not happen.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nPaul Ducco\r\n-----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design, Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:40:17'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "<em>My second link should go here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53395?page=2</em>\r\n\r\nGreat
    idea!\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nPaul Ducco\r\n-----------\r\n<a href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design,
    Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:40:45'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "penn, I think that's exactly what they want which is why I've been trying
    to find another solution.\r\n\r\nReally cool idea on the typeface, I personally
    think it would look fantastic but I'm afraid the client is going to want something
    more along the lines of what penn mentioned. Can't hurt to give it a shot though,
    thanks!"
  created: '2010-02-23 22:27:41'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, after a bit of feedback I *think* I have a better sense of what they
    want. More accurately, they've started designing themselves which is a bit terrifying.\r\n\r\nQuote
    from them with the graphic sent:\r\n<cite>We have all agreed that we like the
    logo we created with the 3 bullets, we also agree that we like the combination
    of the lower case and upper case and we like thin letters.  We just don't like
    the lower case \"g\" for some reason and no matter what typeface we see I don't
    think we will like it.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>The reasons we like it is because the
    letters look modern, classy, the 3 bullets kinda say there are 3 of us without
    being obvious and also gives it something more than just \"the girls\" but yet
    it is still simple.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls_logostamp_6736.jpg]\r\n\r\nTo
    say that I'm beyond frustrated at this point goes without saying. In any case,
    from what I can narrow down it seems like they really like the three dots concept
    and despite mentioning several sans fonts earlier appear to like a very thin serif
    typeface as the primary.\r\n\r\nIf you've got any direction/ideas here I'd love
    to hear them, at this point anything helps :) Thanks!"
  created: '2010-03-05 03:21:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't forget, they're photographers...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-05 04:29:45'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "I was already working on this, but that little comment gave me a bit of an
    idea with the dots.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls_new01_4988.jpg]\r\n\r\nThink
    it may need a bit of tweaking but I like the overall feel and I think it might
    hit the right notes with them."
  created: '2010-03-05 04:56:09'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Textbook. Well at least they're sticking with one fon\u2014 . . . shoot me
    in the face.\r\n\r\n<cite>it seems like they really like the three dots concept
    and despite mentioning several sans fonts earlier appear to like a very thin serif
    typeface as the primary.</cite>\r\n\r\nDots + Thin Serif = Archer!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/The-Girls_5192.gif]\r\n\r\n-\r\n<em>penn</em>"
  created: '2010-03-05 05:02:14'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>I was already working on this, but that little comment gave me a bit
    of an idea with the dots.</em>\r\n\r\nSo I take the girl of the left is Caucasian,
    the one the right is Black and the one in the middle is undecided :-)"
  created: '2010-03-05 18:45:34'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: or she might be half and half.
  created: '2010-03-05 20:27:28'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, so the multicolored dots apparently seemed like a better idea at 1am
    :)\r\n\r\nWith more uniformly colored dots...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girls_new01b_6305.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-06 21:02:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: The alignment seems a little bit off.
  created: '2010-03-06 23:29:08'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "the tone has seemingly gone formal again.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-08 03:32:04'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: You should've stopped on 12th Feb.
  created: '2010-03-09 00:29:51'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Which just happens to be my birthday!\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nPaul\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-03-09 00:33:12'
- author:
    name: picard102
    picture: 112137
  body: 'Agreed, the stuff on the 12th looked the best imo. '
  created: '2010-03-09 22:34:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thirded.
  created: '2010-03-09 23:02:32'
- author:
    name: kattttor
    picture: 112352
  body: I must say that the idea Penn posted is pretty neat. I'd go with something
    like that.
  created: '2010-03-10 01:16:19'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Given the option I would've stopped then as well as I liked that solution
    a lot...unfortunately the client didn't agree :p\r\n\r\nAnd I actually didn't
    realize Archer's terminals were so round, I do like it though. I'm definitely
    up for presenting them something like that as a solution."
  created: '2010-03-10 05:38:56'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: "Ok, final (please please please final) solution as presented to the client,
    much thanks to penn for providing the content set in Archer as well as some good
    back and forth design conversation as I was putting this together.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/girlslogo_card_6068.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    really felt like the dots were a bit stuck on in their version, as I think a lot
    of you did, so I wanted to experiment with how the dots could really work more
    as one element of the overall brand. So these are a few quick examples of how
    the card might look and how the dots could be a recurring pattern with the three
    set off with just a bit of color (option 3 on the right by penn)."
  created: '2010-03-11 19:14:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Cards look busy to me, but the logo is nice. Congrats and good luck!
  created: '2010-03-11 19:56:02'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: Thanks. And probably need to clarify, these are most likely going to be letterpressed
    so the repeating dots would be like a 10-20% gray (at least on 1 and 3) that's
    there primarily to give the cards some texture, the actual graphic impact would
    be fairly minimal.
  created: '2010-03-11 20:36:38'
date: '2009-12-07 23:47:38'
title: Photographer identity for crit

---
