---
author:
  name: evanmacdonald
  picture: 115105
body: "A whole lot of type has been designed over the past ten years. What are the
  best of the best of 2000-2009?\r\n\r\nSo! What are the best typefaces of the last
  ten years and who are the best new type designers?\r\n\r\nBe sure to post links!"
comments:
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: 'I bet this is gonna be a long one. I''ll just get it out of the way now:
    <a href="http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100008">Gotham</a>.'
  created: '2009-12-10 05:45:43'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: You'll need to wait at least another decade before you can say which ones
    were the best of this decade.
  created: '2009-12-10 10:05:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I think I'll go with Williams Caslon Text.
  created: '2009-12-10 12:49:49'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: 'Not an expert, but in my research for a brilliant serif, I think Cycles is
    for me personally an impressive creation, liked it more than all the other Serifs
    I saw from this decade - and there are a lot of great ones. '
  created: '2009-12-10 12:54:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'I''m impressed by Cycles as well. The fact that the different versions are
    in separate fonts, instead of multiple masters of a single font, is positive,
    since it allows one to choose which size to use each version for: my taste would
    be to use the versions for smaller sizes than the actual size in which I was printing.'
  created: '2009-12-10 16:39:55'
- author:
    name: Feelingrandy
    picture: 112814
  body: 'There are fonts that define an age, no doubt. What comes to my mind is a
    font called cowboys http://www.dafont.com/bleeding-cowboys.font. It is from dafont
    and if you have ever taught typography you know dafont is a students best friend.
    But this font, which has used been extensively in posters, ads, editorial, etc.,
    seems to define our time: it''s free, its distressed and it makes a designer look
    good without much effort.'
  created: '2009-12-10 18:26:55'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>[Bleeding Cowboys] seems to define our time: it\u2019s free, its distressed
    and\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nGet instantly overused! ;-)\r\n\r\nJokes aside, it seems
    to me that the typeface of this decade seems already overused just after a year
    or two. "
  created: '2009-12-10 19:46:32'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "Randy,\r\n\r\nI am going to have to disagree with you. I think dafont.com
    is a steep and slippery slope for students. Free fonts are a prime example of
    \"you get what you pay for\" with <em>very</em> few exceptions. Not only this,
    I find that when designers (students especially) grow comfortable with DaFont,
    that they begin to devalue type overall and become more prone to find unethical
    methods of acquiring  the truly great typefaces. \r\n\r\nIn my opinion, Bleeding
    Cowboy does not seem to define our time; it looks to me like it was designed to
    define a previous era.\r\n\r\nRiccard0: <em>it seems to me that the typeface of
    this decade seems already overused just after a year or two.</em>\r\nwhat typeface
    are you talking about, pray-tell?\r\n\r\ncheers\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\"
    target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-10 20:33:31'
- author:
    name: Feelingrandy
    picture: 112814
  body: "Mr Evan\r\n in my heart I agree with you. But I do think Bleeding Cowboy
    transcended its visual intent by becoming a modern typeface that has nothing to
    do with cowboys or the West. I remember many years ago in NYC, DJ Jonathan Schwartz
    was about to play the definitive sound of the eighties\u2014much to everyone's
    surprise, it was Jane Fonda's Workout.\r\nStudents do grow comfortable with dafont
    and the sad reality is, they really want to pay for little, given the high cost
    of tuition. Teaching typography, one can instill the notion that \"you get what
    you pay for\" but for the most part, at this point in their lives, they are happy
    about \"borrowing\" fonts, program, music, etc. The subject of this thread was
    a font that defined or defines our times. By defining one assumes that is not
    about liking it, but seeing it as some larger aspect of the culture. In that regard,
    Bleeding Cowboy is the Jane Fonda Workout."
  created: '2009-12-10 20:51:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You probably all know my choice: Legato.\r\nAnd way beyond just the past
    decade.\r\nhttp://new.typographica.org/2005/on-typography/our-favorite-typefaces-of-2004/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 01:44:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Surely the very excellent Cycles family was released in the 1990s.
  created: '2009-12-11 02:12:30'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I am sorry, I didn't know, my source said 2004, maybe it was just finished
    then. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 02:27:22'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nFor me, the list would be remiss not to include Klavika."
  created: '2009-12-11 03:58:44'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "What are your criteria for \u201Cbest\u201D?\r\n\r\nappeal? \r\nbeauty?\r\ncraziness?\r\nlegibility?\r\namount
    of weights? \r\namount of characters?\r\namount of ot features?\r\n...?"
  created: '2009-12-11 10:03:33'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "My fave would have to be Proxima Nova. For the seamless blending of geometric,
    clasically proportioned letters and the more modern, currently preferred humanist
    type. I know other fonts are in this area (e.g. Avenir, Museo Sans) but I think
    Proxima does it best. Really flexible (loads of weights and widths) when I'm using
    type for image making, integration with a grid. Geometric fonts are too sterile
    (kind of unwordy) and have a dated look. To me it carresses the nebulous delicious
    threshold between looking and reading (pretentious, moi?)\r\n\r\nHrant, Legato
    is beautiful. Do you think you could elaborate on the critique you gave on typographica,
    as I didn't quite understand it?\r\n\r\nRegards"
  created: '2009-12-11 10:18:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Dolly could be worthy the list (released in 2001) but I guess it might owe
    to much to earlier designs. Also Fedra (2001-) very much define the decade.
  created: '2009-12-11 11:52:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Defining the decade != being the best. Influence/usage/ubiquity isn't necessarily
    directly proportional to quality\u2026 I'm in the Legato camp."
  created: '2009-12-11 12:23:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'For non-coders: "!=" means "not equal". I still think both Fedra and Dolly
    are some of the highest quality type from the 2000s, Nina. I second Legato also.'
  created: '2009-12-11 12:38:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: O, I didn't mean to imply those two are bad quality.
  created: '2009-12-11 12:52:11'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: "As stated, what are the criteria;\r\n\r\nBeautiful workhorse;\r\n[[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/ourtype/arnhem_professional_ot/|Arnhem]]\r\n
    \r\nGreat contemporary face \u2013 and works better than Dolly, for me;\r\n[[http://vllg.com/Kontour/Odile/mudTyper+Weights/|Odile]]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 13:36:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Evan, there are no criteria that can determine the \"Best\" type.\r\nYou
    have created a time-waster for those who like to show off their impeccable good
    taste.\r\nAt the very least, \"Best\" is overambitious, most listists opt for
    \"Top Ten\". Are you trying to provoke controversy? \r\nNot only that, but you
    are a lazy so-and-so who couldn't even be bothered to declare his own candidates!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 14:01:25'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: Humor.
  created: '2009-12-11 14:25:33'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nIt's amazing how some people can immediately propose a typeface and others
    completely stymie themselves (and maybe others) with over-intellectualization."
  created: '2009-12-11 14:54:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jarrod, my gut feeling despises the very notion of \"best\".\r\nThe best
    type is the best type for the job at hand."
  created: '2009-12-11 15:25:28'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: "What's your point begsini? Isn't this more about 'Which type have you enjoyed
    most or \u2013 for that matter \u2013 worked most with this Decade?' Or even admired,
    but never got around to it?\r\n\r\nThere's a saying in Dutch that almost sounds
    like 'It't in the eye of the beholder', but than again not."
  created: '2009-12-11 15:28:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick simply has an allergy to the foot end of the pedestal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 15:43:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Nick that if you are going to do this, it needs to be at last
    top ten, and probably by category. That being said, that quadribloc fellow sure
    has good taste :)\r\n\r\nOf new designers, the first that come into my head as
    new and awesome are Kris Sowersby and Underware.  "
  created: '2009-12-11 15:52:49'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "Nick!\r\n\r\nYou have got me in a corner! What are the best? I guess that
    is different for everyone. (IMO) the best faces are the ones that have enough
    in them to allow a designer to set beautiful text. Type that one might predict
    would become a standard in years to come (in this sense, I agree with riccard0's
    first comment in this thread). Type faces like Univers, Scala, DIN, Minion, Meta,
    etc. \r\n\r\nMy favs would have to be (in no particular order):\r\n\r\n[[http://typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100033|Archer
    from H&FJ]]\r\n[[http://www.type-together.com/Skolar|Skolar from Type Together]]\r\n[[http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000431|Alejandro
    Paul's Adios]]\r\n[[http://vllg.com/Thirstype/ApexSerif/mudTyper+Weights/|Apex
    Serif]]\r\nAnd I am excited to get to know [[http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/calluna.html|Calluna]]
    a little better!\r\n\r\nI am really bad at top-ten-esque lists! Maybe you're right,
    Nick. Maybe I am lazy :)\r\n\r\nIn this context, the questions of \"best\" is
    really of a subjective nature, not objective. I guess my original question was
    \"what are your favs!\"\r\n\r\ncheers!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\"
    target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-11 15:53:39'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: "@ evanmacdonald \r\nHave you books with Skolar?"
  created: '2009-12-11 16:01:49'
- author:
    name: Brieck
    picture: 115492
  body: '''done books'', that is.'
  created: '2009-12-11 16:17:30'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "@Brieck\r\n\r\nHey, hoe gaat het?\r\n\r\nI think you got my point exactly,
    which was that one needn't necessarily have reacted to the word \"best\" so literally
    and strictly, but maybe listed fonts that answered any of your suggested questions.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I probably sounded negative, but I thought it was an interesting contrast. I value
    the (over)intellectualization here.\r\n\r\n@Nick\r\nI certainly see your point,
    but it requires the contextualization of every font (or font choice, if you will).
    On the other hand, there are fonts there are just well crafted, widely used, and
    beautiful (ahem... Gotham... ahem). Who would say Gotham was THE best choice every
    time is has been used? Yet, there it is, a great font being used over and over
    and over. I'd say it's one of the best of the decade. ;)"
  created: '2009-12-11 16:17:54'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "@Brieck\r\n\r\nI have not! Have you?\r\n\r\n@begsini\r\n\r\nGreat points
    there! I think there is an objective method for defining what are the best typefaces.
    While objectivity wasn't the point of this thread (I probably should've titled
    it \"Favorite typefaces of the decade\"), I think it raises an interesting question!
    HOWEVER! To pull the rug out from under your logic, arial is widely used beyond
    the scope of the personal computer (in signage, print, and even [[http://www.artofthetitle.com/2009/11/30/how-we-built-britain/|this
    almost-awesome title sequence]]). I don't think we'd find a pair of typophiles
    who think Arial is a great typeface.\r\n\r\nGood points all around tho!\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\" target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-11 16:27:01'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nYep, my intention was not at all to equate wide usage with greatness,
    only to suggest we could possibly evaluate greatness outside the context of a
    particular usage. "
  created: '2009-12-11 16:46:42'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "agreed\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\" target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-11 16:55:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\"\u2026at least a top ten\u2026\"\r\n\r\nAnd, taking a page from the Grammys,
    about 55 categories.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 17:23:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What are your criteria for \u201Cbest\u201D?\r\n\r\nTo me, the main thing
    is to change the future, for the better.\r\n\r\nOwen, the explanation of why Legato
    is so special is admittedly esoteric, and difficult to do in the short space I
    had for the Typographica thing. I can't use up too much space/time here either...
    Basically though it breaks our dependency on the tools used (if only metaphorically)
    to make 99.9% of type; these tools are handwriting, and the grid.\r\n\r\nTop ten?
    There is a useful purity in a singularity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 17:29:56'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "I\u2019d go with Legato as well \u2014 and not only because I\u2019m French
    and that Evert Bloesma used our revered Antique Olive as a point of departure
    in designing Legato."
  created: '2009-12-11 18:01:51'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: DSType's [[http://dstype.com/index.php?id=11|Leitura Display]].
  created: '2009-12-11 18:04:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're not the first French type person to claim that... some of you are
    much more explicit... :-)  I think there's probably some truth to it, but Evert
    had many other inspirations too (as we all do). And remember, Excoffon was a flamboyant
    display face designer, while Evert was a quiet intellectual designer, so their
    intentions (to me something central) couldn't have been too close. Roger did get
    all the chicks though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 18:22:47'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nDoes this make Legato special because it's a better way, or
    a new, different, interesting way?"
  created: '2009-12-11 18:24:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I liked Rongel, although I went and checked Updike which I believe reproduces
    what it claims to be a revival of, and might quibble about authenticity. But then,
    I'm not typographically sophisticated enough to see what's special about Legato
    - or even tell it from Stone Sans or Lucida Sans.\r\n\r\nAlso, I thought it was
    nice that Amira showed that Optima-style serifs could be used with other typefaces
    as well."
  created: '2009-12-11 18:27:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Starling|Starling]] by [[http://www.fontbureau.com/people/MikeParker|Mike
    Parker]] from [[http://www.fontbureau.com/|Font Bureau]].'
  created: '2009-12-11 18:30:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jarrod: Yes, I think Legato follows a better path. Not always the best path,
    but a path that needs to be explored and leveraged. Extremely few fonts do this,
    and none that I know of that have done it so convincingly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 19:07:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "More great in-depth exploration of Legato: http://typophile.com/node/55783\r\n\r\nOne
    of my favorite things about Legato is that it's so \"undercover\".\r\nPeople who
    don't know what it does (and even people who should know) still like it because
    it's so friendly; its radical newness is not of the in-your-face sort. \r\nLegato
    is a smiling revolutionary."
  created: '2009-12-11 19:10:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\xABA revolutionary must have a cool head and a warm heart.\xBB -Lenin\r\nEvert
    was like that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 19:28:55'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "@ hrant\r\nWhat do you mean, \u201Cmuch more explicit\u201D ?\r\nI'm a big
    fan of Bloesma\u2019s typefaces, anyway \u2014 all of them. I quite like \u201Cslightly
    dark\u201D text types, and FF Avance definitely does the trick for me."
  created: '2009-12-11 19:53:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>My favs...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's more like it Evan.\r\n\r\nBut I wonder
    if the types people have said are their favorites really are the faces they favor
    for their own work.\r\nSure, there are faces one has often seen well used, and
    admired, but they would be favorites as a reader or connoisseur.\r\nWhat are the
    new faces that people who are graphic designers, art directors and typographers
    have actually used the most--i.e. what are your \"go to\" faces?\r\n\r\nThe only
    art direction I've done most of the decade involves promoting my own faces, so
    I don't really have a favorite in that sense, but it could be that Scotch Modern
    is my favorite, as I've been using it as my browser default face since 2005.\r\n\r\nThere
    are lots of faces I've admired for one reason or another, but I wouldn't say they
    were favorites or best.\r\nRecently, I've liked Memoriam and Klimax. I was living
    in the UK when the Guardian was redesigned in 2005, and that was probably the
    typographic highlight of the decade for me (that didn't involve my own work)--of
    course the types involved were wonderful, but they were only part of the picture.
    \r\n\r\nIf there is one face I could perhaps credit as Best, and most inspirational,
    it would be from the perspective of someone who has designed multi-script, feature
    rich OpenType faces, and it's there that I would single out Robert Slimbach's
    work in Arno. I mean, polytonic italic small caps? Five optical sizes? Cyrillic
    and Greek Swash caps? That's setting the bar pretty high!\r\n\r\n<em>...to change
    the future, for the better.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a good criterion Hrant, and your
    choice accords. But if Legato is so important, how come even its leading type-designer
    advocate hasn't got around to designing a face along its principles? Put up or
    shut up! "
  created: '2009-12-11 20:05:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "St\xE9phane:\r\nWell, one French type designer once told me: \"He stole our
    ideas.\"  :-)\r\nAnd he was referring to more than just Legato. (BTW, I won't
    say\r\nwho it was, but for the record I will say it wasn't JFP.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 20:06:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> how come even its leading type-designer advocate hasn\u2019t\r\n> got around
    to designing a face along its principles?\r\n> Put up or shut up!\r\n\r\n\xABDo
    as I say, not as I do.\xBB\r\n\r\nI don't think shutting up is entirely beneficial;
    if I can make others realize the importance of something, I'm doing society a
    service. But I am actually working towards that, if only at a snail's pace. Another
    quote:\r\n\xABWatching me work is like watching a refrigerator make ice.\xBB\r\n-
    Matthew Carter\r\n\r\nSadly, my ice doesn't match Carter's however!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 20:16:45'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: Perhaps the revolutionary nature of Legato comes less from the actual theory
    used and more from the fact that it successfully used a completely new theory.
  created: '2009-12-11 20:18:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "St\xE9phane, Nina, have you used Legato on any projects?"
  created: '2009-12-11 20:19:42'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "@hrant\r\nYes, I know that over here FF Balance was early on pointed at as
    some kind of \u201Crip off\u201D from Antique Olive \u2014 but I know a lot of
    French type designers who talk too much. \r\nInstead we should be grateful to
    Bloemsma for having taken Excoffon\u2019s tricks one or two or fifty steps further
    \u2014 thus giving him a well-earned credibility on the international stage, where
    French type design was notoriously (and for pretty good reasons) invisible for
    several decades."
  created: '2009-12-11 20:27:09'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "@Nick\r\nI\u2019m only a teacher and writer, Nick \u2014 and I don\u2019t
    even own FF Legato, though I've been drooling over it for quite some time. Full
    disclosure : I intended to have it as a Christmas gift this year, but my girlfriend
    found the idea really too \u201Cnerdish\u201D, so I will probably have the Emigre
    book instead."
  created: '2009-12-11 20:34:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick, I've used Legato in two finished pieces \u2013 a small book, for text
    (although I set it badly), and in a poster and matching program flyer for a conference,
    for titling. I'm currently working with it in a small identity project, and a
    book (plus cover) where I use it for titling (combined with Patria for text).\r\nFWIW,
    that's why I said I find it funny that people like it even if they don't \xABget\xBB
    it \u2013 it's what I've had happen with clients, they take to it. Avance seems
    much harder to \xABsell\xBB at least in my experience \u2013 more people think
    it's weird."
  created: '2009-12-11 20:43:52'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: But for the record, I think people who don't use it, and don't design anything
    like it, and even people who don't own it are still perfectly allowed to admire
    it!
  created: '2009-12-11 20:45:08'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "Thanks, Nina \u2014 if I had got Legato for Christmas, I would have used
    it for the documents I'm giving my students during classes and lectures, but I
    guess I will have to stick to Scala Sans."
  created: '2009-12-11 20:50:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Some of those I''ve particularly admired: Whitman, Garamond Premier, Gotham,
    Archer, Stag, Guardian Egyptian, Fedra, Benton Sans, Klavika, Sauna, National,
    Rocky, Olicana. '
  created: '2009-12-11 21:07:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'Never mind Ad Lib: I would claim that the sloped inner ovals of Caslon don''t
    really correspond to what would be produced by a stroke produced by a pen, and
    so they could be claimed as a modest ancestor to Legato... although not an explicit
    one.'
  created: '2009-12-11 21:08:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, designers have been nudging (or just playing around with) counters
    independently of the \"outsides\" since way back. But mostly as a form of compensation,
    without an explicit \"plan\", from what I've discerned.\r\n\r\nI actually used
    AdLib as an example of that in my recent Mexico City talk. And of course I mentioned
    Dwiggins (who harbored a great paradox in terms of chirography).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-11 21:20:15'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>Students do grow comfortable with dafont and the sad reality is, they
    really want to pay for little, given the high cost of tuition.</cite>\r\n\r\nOof!
    It's one thing to call us frugal, but a whole other to call us cheap!\r\n\r\nWe
    simply don't have the money. My family\u2014bless their hearts!\u2014is already
    busting their behinds for my tuition and food. My mother very generously funds/assists
    funding for other pursuits\u2014such as the Adobe Suite.\r\n\r\nBut for something
    like type? There's simply no money to be had. Students don't have money for complimentary
    supplements. We buy our cameras without the lenses, our paints without the varnishes,
    and our InDesign without the Gotham. \r\n\r\nPersonally? I don't see a problem.
    If anything, I think it's a positive message to students to say that they have
    \"enough\" with simply the default set. \r\n\r\n(Interestingly enough, this board
    took very poorly to me when I suggested otherwise once before, so I'd be interested
    to see if that comment will be received differently this time.)"
  created: '2009-12-12 02:03:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Cyrus Highsmith; each font is Superb!!!
  created: '2009-12-12 07:53:54'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "The superfamily <em>Freight</em> from Mr. Darden.\r\nhttp://www.dardenstudio.com/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-12 11:51:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Farnham also strikes me as something that will have a long life.
  created: '2009-12-12 16:14:35'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nI am with you. As a student I probably spend way too much on
    type (it's a bit of an addiction, really). However! For my fellow students who
    do not purchase typefaces, we have the luxury of using computers in the graphic
    design computer lab. Complete with a wide array of fantastic typefaces (from a
    complete set of Univers and Akzidenz Gortesque to newer fonts like Skala, Din,
    Meta, and tons of other typefaces).\r\n\r\nAs for your comment \"<em>I think it\u2019s
    a positive message to students to say that they have \u201Cenough\u201D with simply
    the default set</em>\" ... I agree 100%. Using poorly crafted fonts from DaFont
    can really be a scape goat for good design. Limitations are important, the hone
    your skills as a designer! By limiting oneself to the typefaces that come with
    one's computer and the Adobe Suite, one is able to really grow as a designer.
    Much more so that students who over fill their font libraries with the sludge
    that comes from free font sites*.\r\n\r\n*NOTE: that not all free fonts are \"sludge.\"
    There are some good free typefaces and with a trained eye and a sensitivity, one
    can find these rare gems! Places like www.exljbris.nl and fontsquirrel are good
    places to start.\r\n\r\n(climbing down off soap box)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\"
    target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-12 18:03:56'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "Museo and Museo sans.\r\n\r\nThey aren't just beautiful typefaces. Jos is
    one of the people who have been actively redefining how typefaces are developed
    and distributed. By offering some of the weights for free he's giving people a
    chance to truly test drive a font family. Very awesome idea Jos!"
  created: '2009-12-12 18:04:24'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I hope the best one will show up next year :) '
  created: '2009-12-12 18:54:07'
- author:
    name: J. Craigen
    picture: 114061
  body: "Favourites in no particular order:\r\n\r\n<cite>Arno Pro\r\nthe Museo Family
    (I also have a fondness for Fontin)\r\nP22's Underground\r\nLegato \r\nGotham\r\n</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-12 18:55:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina might be too modest to show her upcoming book* that\r\nuses Legato (along
    with Patria) so let me just do it for her:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4178949227\r\nNot
    to fawn, but I feel quite honored to be in such company.\r\n\r\n* The second one
    in a series. The first:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4011513411\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/4177918056/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-12 20:40:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "That actually is a good example of what I've been thinking about \u2013 Nick:
    My \xABgo to\xBB faces <em>are</em> my favorite faces. Fonts I enjoy, fonts I
    trust, fonts I think about, are naturally the ones that come to mind most easily
    when considering font choice for a new project \u2013 I can't really imagine that's
    just me. \r\nOf course that doesn't mean I always stick to my favorites, and don't
    check if maybe something else wouldn't be more appropriate; I'm a designer, not
    a missionary. But in trying to produce good work, it sure helps to like one's
    tools, and know them in some depth. That, and I also can't afford <em>all</em>
    the fonts I might want to have/use."
  created: '2009-12-12 21:24:26'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "In this order:\r\n\r\nMerlo and Rongel by Mario Feliciano (begin of development
    of both typefaces in 1998?)\r\nCapsa by Dino dos Santos\r\nJenny by Natascha Dell
    and (?) Kai Oetzbach\r\nAthelas by Jos\xE9 Scaglione and Veronika Burian\r\nFabiol
    by Robert Strauch\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-12 21:35:34'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> there are no criteria that can determine the \u201CBest\u201D type\r\n\r\nreally?
    :) \r\n\r\n1. Style  -- poor design skills don't constitute a style.\r\n2. Sell/Money
    (retail, custom etc etc)"
  created: '2009-12-13 00:30:42'
- author:
    name: evanmacdonald
    picture: 115105
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nThose are some fantastic choices. Really beautiful type! Thanks
    for sharing!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.evanmade.com\" target=\"_blank\">evan</a>"
  created: '2009-12-13 05:48:13'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "Evan,\r\n\r\nI don't spend enough on type! But if I were to buy a set, it'd
    be Gotham, and that's simply not an easy first buy... \r\n\r\nOne's possibilities
    with the simple basic set are endless. Though, if I may, Zapfino is hardly a satisfactory
    script font, in my opinion. Is Snell or Shelly default? Sheesh, I forget these
    days.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-14 00:05:23'
- author:
    name: "El chico le\xF3n"
    picture: 118654
  body: "I know there is a type from this year that have this award...the autoeditable
    LAIKA type, build in proccessing.\r\n\r\nwww.laikafont.ch"
  created: '2009-12-14 05:48:38'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: "Some of the most used this decade at least on the web are:\r\nvag rounded,
    helvetica rounded, gotham, rockwell, interstate and perhaps museo"
  created: '2009-12-14 14:43:30'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: Neutraface is used everywhere. But I especially love Neutraface No. 2
  created: '2009-12-14 17:59:27'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "I believe the following serifs have certain marvelous characteristics that
    make them rise a bit above many of their peers, marvelous in their own right.\r\n\r\n[[http://vllg.com/KLIM/Feijoa/mudTyper+Weights/|Feijoa]]\r\n[[http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/landing/arno/arno.html|Arno
    Pro]]\r\n[[http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/ff_milo_serif/|FF Milo Serif]]\r\n[[http://www.type-together.com/Skolar|Skolar]]\r\n\r\nThis
    decade has produced far too many gems. I don't even know where to begin with the
    sans. How lucky are we!\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2009-12-18 01:43:08'
date: '2009-12-10 03:43:44'
node_type: forum
title: The Best Type of this Decade

---
