---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "<strong>The Dynamic Font Copyright Year Method</strong>\r\n\r\nIn the US Copyright
  Law in section \xA7 506 c (Fraudulent Copyright Notice) we read:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Any
  person who, with fraudulent intent, places on any article a notice of copyright
  or words of the same purport that such person knows to be false, or who, with fraudulent
  intent, publicly distributes or imports for public distribution any article bearing
  such notice or words that such person knows to be false, shall be fined not more
  than $2,500.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the funny font forging industry, two methods of
  forging the year of copyright are applied:\r\n\r\n<strong>1) Static Font Copyright
  Year Method</strong>\r\n\r\nThis method means that the font forger usually provides
  the entire font forging collection with the same static copyright year. See for
  example the following document:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/megafont2.pdf\r\n\r\nThis
  document proves that Martin Kotulla forged the copyright notices of no less than
  5835 fonts at the same time by always inserting automatically the year \"2002\"
  as \"year of first publication\".\r\n\r\nThis Static Font Copyright Year Method
  is \"old hat\", i.e. well-known, to most Typophilers. At my website, I documented
  this static method by numerous documents.\r\n\r\n<strong>2) Dynamic Font Copyright
  Year Method</strong>\r\n\r\nThis dynamic method will be new to most Typophilers.
  Therefore I will explain it in more detail so that you will understand, how it works.\r\n\r\nAs
  an example for experimentation, I downloaded the following Font Bureau specimen
  file mentioned today in another Typophile thread.\r\n\r\nwww.fontbureau.com/pdf/FB_David_Berlow_Specimens.pdf\r\n\r\nIf
  you start Acrobat Reader and look at the PDF \"Documents Properties\", you will
  see that this PDF was created on the 20th of May in 2008. Note that this was in
  last year. Today's date is 16th December 2009, one year later.\r\n\r\nNow dump this
  PDF to a PS file with the help of an appropriate printer driver. If you open this
  PS file with a text editor and search for \"Interstate-Black\" you will see this
  copyright date:\r\n\r\n<cite>%%Copyright: Copyright 2009 Adobe System Incorporated.
  All rights reserved.\r\n12 dict dup begin\r\n/FontType 1 def\r\n/FontName /FJAAAA+Interstate-Black
  def\r\n/FontInfo 7 dict dup begin\r\n/Notice (Copyright (c) The Font Bureau, Inc.,
  2003. All rights reserved.) def</cite>\r\n\r\nYou see that Abobe System Incorporated
  inserted the copyright year of 2009 for this Interstate Black font, although Adobe
  obviously is not the copyright owner of the Interstate font. But what is more: Adobe
  inserted the copyright year 2009, although the PDF file was created in 2008.\r\n\r\nNow
  search for \"KisDisplay\", and you will see this:\r\n\r\n<cite>%%Copyright: Copyright
  2009 Adobe System Incorporated. All rights reserved.\r\n/WDEAAA+FBKisDisplay-Roman
  12 GetGlyphDirectory\r\n58 <001C60D8A8C9B65062EA780BF59CFC71C99F536F132A402E5A18AF09378A\r\n09EDE4803C7AE18A10CB9C1A2097B65740A3853796F5C8504B9D62CB62D91B89\r\nED5C2A86C975B949C23761309D5A5F7C2FBCF5040F1B72E9F9FA250CAD328D08\r\nFF879FF83929439E6D836068A8BB7FA64DAB4D4981A383E3A5489D7E0B9C604F\r\n2612792FCB7C15D8224ED3BD251B3CD5B5FB7A5DE2E0DA53CA2B59CF8E4F7CEE\r\n2BA39914F4EE40D7CA796E979657ACF599AD571EB09E5EB5BC60C9C62F5B1990\r\n6AA11B8E26832FD8338FDA4AA49C49E4A49A4AB25DDDE07746D9197365F70680\r\n5027>
  |</cite>\r\n\r\nHere, Adobe System Incorporated claims to be the copyright owner
  of the glyphs and that Adobe acquired the copyright to the glyphs of KisDisplay
  in the year 2009. This is also impossible, because the PDF file containing the glyphs
  was created in 2008.\r\n\r\nIf you have a Windows PC, switch to DOS mode and change
  today's date to the year 2011. Back in Windows repeat the above experiment. Now
  you will see this:\r\n\r\n<cite>%%Copyright: Copyright 2011 Adobe System Incorporated.
  All rights reserved.\r\n12 dict dup begin\r\n/FontType 1 def\r\n/FontName /XKLAAA+Interstate-Black
  def\r\n/FontInfo 7 dict dup begin\r\n/Notice (Copyright (c) The Font Bureau, Inc.,
  2003. All rights reserved.) def\r\n\r\n%%Copyright: Copyright 2011 Adobe System
  Incorporated. All rights reserved.\r\n/TPDAAA+FBKisDisplay-Roman 12 GetGlyphDirectory\r\n58
  <001C60D8A8C9B65062EA780BF59CFC71C99F536F132A402E5A18AF09378A\r\n09EDE4803C7AE18A10CB9C1A2097B65740A3853796F5C8504B9D62CB62D91B89\r\nED5C2A86C975B949C23761309D5A5F7C2FBCF5040F1B72E9F9FA250CAD328D08\r\nFF879FF83929439E6D836068A8BB7FA64DAB4D4981A383E3A5489D7E0B9C604F\r\n2612792FCB7C15D8224ED3BD251B3CD5B5FB7A5DE2E0DA53CA2B59CF8E4F7CEE\r\n2BA39914F4EE40D7CA796E979657ACF599AD571EB09E5EB5BC60C9C62F5B1990\r\n6AA11B8E26832FD8338FDA4AA49C49E4A49A4AB25DDDE07746D9197365F70680\r\n5027>
  |</cite>\r\n\r\nNow, the copyright year claimed by Adobe System Incorporated is
  the year 2011. This means, that Adobe has dynamically forged the year of copyright
  by the Dynamic Font Copyright Year Method.\r\n\r\nRemembering the song \"In the
  Year 2525\" by Zager and Evans, I switched again to DOS Mode and changed today's
  date to the year 2525. Back in Windows, I repeated the experiment. I would have
  expected that Adobe now inserts the copyright year 2525. But here I was wrong. The
  result was this:\r\n\r\n<cite>%%Copyright: Copyright 1980 Adobe System Incorporated.
  All rights reserved.\r\n12 dict dup begin\r\n/FontType 1 def\r\n/FontName /XKLAAA+Interstate-Black
  def\r\n/FontInfo 7 dict dup begin\r\n/Notice (Copyright (c) The Font Bureau, Inc.,
  2003. All rights reserved.) def\r\n\r\n%%Copyright: Copyright 1980 Adobe System
  Incorporated. All rights reserved.\r\n/TPDAAA+FBKisDisplay-Roman 12 GetGlyphDirectory\r\n58
  <001C60D8A8C9B65062EA780BF59CFC71C99F536F132A402E5A18AF09378A\r\n09EDE4803C7AE18A10CB9C1A2097B65740A3853796F5C8504B9D62CB62D91B89\r\nED5C2A86C975B949C23761309D5A5F7C2FBCF5040F1B72E9F9FA250CAD328D08\r\nFF879FF83929439E6D836068A8BB7FA64DAB4D4981A383E3A5489D7E0B9C604F\r\n2612792FCB7C15D8224ED3BD251B3CD5B5FB7A5DE2E0DA53CA2B59CF8E4F7CEE\r\n2BA39914F4EE40D7CA796E979657ACF599AD571EB09E5EB5BC60C9C62F5B1990\r\n6AA11B8E26832FD8338FDA4AA49C49E4A49A4AB25DDDE07746D9197365F70680\r\n5027>
  |</cite>\r\n\r\nThe Dynamic Font Copyright Year Method was programmed by Adobe System
  Incorporated such that it reverts to the year 1980 for future centuries. Probably,
  the in-house lawyers and legal advisers of Adobe System Incorporated thought that
  even a dimwitted court judge would not be so extremely gullible as to believe that
  Adobe System Incorporated acquired the copyright to the Font Bureau fonts in the
  year 2525.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Spam. '
  created: '2009-12-16 13:43:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You've left out the line directly preceding Adobe's copyright line, which
    is what Adobe's copyright notice refers to, not the font dict that follows, which
    includes it's own copyright notice.
  created: '2009-12-16 14:37:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Fascinatingly boring.
  created: '2009-12-16 15:24:59'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'If this is accurate, I would think it would be difficult to prove fraudulent
    intent regarding what amounts to a coding bug. '
  created: '2009-12-16 15:46:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\n> You\u2019ve left out the line directly preceding
    Adobe\u2019s copyright line, which is what Adobe\u2019s copyright notice refers
    to\r\n\r\nA copyright year of 2525 cannot refer to any existing copyrighted work.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-16 17:50:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Whatever, but it has nothing to do with the copyright year of the embedded
    fonts, which you seem to be claiming.
  created: '2009-12-16 18:56:32'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Whether it was Uli's point or not, to satisfy \xA7 506 c of Title 17, you
    need (1) a false copyright notice + (2) knowledge that the copyright notice is
    false + (3) fraudulent intent. \r\n\r\nThere are many ways in which a notice can
    be false. The attribution could be correct, for example, but the year could be
    wrong (as it is in this case). However, absent a showing that Adobe knows about
    the falseness of this notice, OR absent a showing of fraudulent intent, the requisites
    of that $2,500 criminal fine would not be satisfied. "
  created: '2009-12-16 19:16:43'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Uli seems to be saying that Adobe is claiming copyright ownership of the
    embedded fonts, and that the copyright year it uses is dynamically set to whatever
    date the user's computer's clock is set to. \r\n\r\nThe Adobe copyright appears
    to refer to the PostScript code that embeds the font. That code is generated at
    the time you export or save as a .ps file. It's not actually part of the PDF.
    The same thing happens when you do \"print to PostScript\" on any document using
    Adobe's print driver. Whether this dynamically generated copyright notice is a
    false claim or not, I think probably not since it applies to dynamically generated
    PostScript code.\r\n\r\nMy point is that the Adobe copyright claim(s) in a .ps
    file that Uli is calling attention to are not referring to the embedded fonts,
    and that Uli has either deliberately or through ignorance taken PostScript code
    out of context in his examples, leaving out a very relevant line of code just
    before the Adobe copyright notice."
  created: '2009-12-16 19:45:36'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\nI looked at the PS file in more detail:\r\n\r\nThe
    Font Bureau PDF file FB_David_Berlow_Specimens.pdf has exactly 80 pages, and if
    I set the date of my PC e.g. to the year 2037 and dump the entire 80-page PDF
    file to a PS file, this PS file will contain exactly 4883 (four thousand eight
    hundred and eighty-three) copyright lines, i.e. 61 copyright lines per PDF page,
    with always the same wording:\r\n\r\n\"Copyright 2037 Adobe System Incorporated\"\r\n\r\nSince
    ONE copyright line refers to ONE copyrighted work, this means that Adobe System
    Incorporated claims that this PS file contains 4883 copyrighted works owned by
    Adobe System Incorporated.\r\n\r\nBy these thousands of \"copyright 2037\" notices
    embedded into this PS file, Adobe System Incorporated wants to make believe that
    it is the copyright owner of thousands of copyrighted works, which had been created
    (past tense) in the year 2037 (future tense).\r\n\r\nFrom the psychiatric point
    of view, this is highly interesting: I guess, if a lawyer or a legal adviser at
    Adobe System Incorporated wrote a book, it would consist of nothing but thousands
    of copyright notices, i.e. 61 copyright lines per printed book page."
  created: '2009-12-16 20:08:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Yes, the notices are false. The dates of first publication are, because they
    are being dynamically created, often incorrect. This alone is enough to render
    the notices false.\r\n\r\n\"Copyright 2525 Hubert Q. Fake.\"\r\n\r\nThat's a false
    notice, whether it is affixed 61 times a page to a copyrighted work the rights
    of which are not held by Hubert Q. Fake, or whether affixed to Hubert Q. Fake's
    autobiography, first published in the year 2524. We'll have to wait until 2525
    to see if it can possibly be made valid.\r\n\r\nBut unless Hubert Q. Fake was
    aware that those notices were false when he affixed them AND did so with fraudulent
    intent, the conditions of \xA7 506 c have not been met. \r\n\r\n\r\nWhat Uli is
    demonstrating is (1) a computer bug, and (2) lacks a showing of fraudulent intent. "
  created: '2009-12-16 20:28:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Good grief, Uli. You're hopeless. I've wasted enough time on this. Best of
    luck to you.
  created: '2009-12-16 20:29:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Ehague:\r\n\r\n> But unless Hubert Q. Fake was aware that those notices were
    false when he affixed them AND did so with fraudulent intent, the conditions of
    \xA7 506 c have not been met.\r\n\r\nIf you open a PS file of a lyrics PDF and
    read\r\n\r\nThe seed ye sow another reaps\r\nCopyright 2525 Adobe System Incorporated\r\nThe
    wealth ye find another keeps\r\nCopyright 2525 Adobe System Incorporated\r\nThe
    robes ye weave another wears\r\nCopyright 2525 Adobe System Incorporated\r\nThe
    arms ye forge another bears\r\nCopyright 2525 Adobe System Incorporated\r\n\r\nthe
    question of fraudulent intent is no longer important. Rather, one is inclined
    to think that the Adobe managers and Adobe lawyers, who instructed Adobe programmers
    to insert thousands and thousands of copyright notices into PS printer files are
    mentally disordered suffering from what could be called a pathological copyright
    notice echolalia."
  created: '2009-12-17 06:28:41'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: If a tree falls in the woods in 2525...
  created: '2009-12-17 07:43:40'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'Indeed... those these trollings are sometimes the closest I can get to a
    good, old-fashioned font IP law debate. '
  created: '2009-12-17 13:22:42'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There was a time when I thought that Uli was honest, if misguided. But then
    I noticed too many things like this.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-17 16:06:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n> I thought that Uli was honest\r\n\r\nIf you think
    that I told a lie by saying that the PS printer file contains exactly 4883 copyright
    lines with a future year, as specified above, e.g. with the copyright year 2037,
    you may download this PS file:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/FB_David_Berlow_Specimens.ps\r\n\r\nYou
    will see that it contains exactly 4883 lines with the future year 2037:\r\n\r\n<cite>Copyright
    2037 Adobe System Incorporated. All rights reserved.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 17:37:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, you certainly lied to Adobe's software by setting the date on your
    computer incorrectly.  :)\r\n\r\nActually, I wasn't thinking you lied, but rather
    that you were less than completely honest, in quoting the copyright notices out
    of context, and ignoring what they were actually claiming copyright on and implying
    Adobe was claiming copyright on third party fonts... as pointed out by Mark Simonson
    in the third post of this thread.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-18 07:55:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\nYou want to camouflage the fact that Adobe System
    Incorporated perverts the copyright law by inserting thousands of copyright notices
    into PDF and PS files.\r\n\r\n1.\r\n\r\n<cite>Well, you certainly lied to Adobe\u2019s
    software by setting the date on your computer incorrectly. :)</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    ignore that I started this thread by saying \"Today\u2019s date is 16th December
    2009\", and saying \"Adobe inserted the copyright year 2009, although the PDF
    file was created in 2008\".\r\n\r\n2.\r\n\r\n<cite>Actually, I wasn\u2019t thinking
    you lied, but rather that you were less than completely honest, in quoting the
    copyright notices out of context, and ignoring what they were actually claiming
    copyright on and implying Adobe was claiming copyright on third party fonts...
    as pointed out by Mark Simonson in the third post of this thread.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    did not download the file FB_David_Berlow_Specimens.ps, nor did you examine the
    four thousand eight hundred eighty three copyright notices, nor did you disclose
    the names of the Adobe managers, who instructed subordinate Adobe programmers
    to insert thousands of copyright notices into PDF and PS files thus making dimwitted
    court judges believe that Adobe System Incorporated is the copyright owner of
    thousands of copyrighted works."
  created: '2009-12-18 09:58:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">.... insert thousands of copyright notices into PDF and PS files thus making
    dimwitted court judges...\r\n\r\nPast tense? Show me one judge who believed this
    techno-psycho babble. \r\n\r\nJheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-18 13:29:23'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Past tense? Show me one judge who believed this techno-psycho babble. \r\n\r\nSince
    you downloaded the file FB_David_Berlow_Specimens.p, you convinced yourself that
    this lunatic file contains four thousand eight hundred eighty three Adobe copyright
    notices.\r\n\r\nJudge Ronald M. Whyte arrived at a bizarre summary judgment in
    the Adove vs. SSI lawsuit, and I would not be surprised, if this judge arrives
    at the bizarre judgment that this lunatic file contains four thousand eight hundred
    eighty three valid copyright notices for four thousand eight hundred eighty three
    different copyrighted works."
  created: '2009-12-18 15:13:00'
- author:
    name: Beauclair
  body: "Uli, I really hope that you\u2019ll find a hobby horse next or any year which
    isn\u2019t so incredibly boring as your futile investigations against us dimwitted
    font forgin\u2019 fellows \u2026\r\n \r\nEine erholsame Weihnachtszeit\r\nB."
  created: '2009-12-18 16:23:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Judge Ronald M. Whyte\r\n\r\nAha. Well, let us assume he retired at 65 (in
    2007 or 2008). Is there anyone else?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-18 16:28:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berlow:\r\n\r\n> Aha. Well, let us assume he retired\r\n\r\nBut see here:\r\n\r\nwww.cand.uscourts.gov/cand/calendar.nsf/9d570fb89a18988c88256e450079c449/02a6eb945e051015882566a30060ea62\r\n\r\nYou
    may want to send this Christmas present to Judge Ronald M. Whyte:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Whyte.pdf\r\n\r\nHe
    certainly will be most delighted at the stunning copyright activities of Adobe
    System Incorporated."
  created: '2009-12-18 17:52:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Look, if you generate the .ps file from the same PDF with a different driver,
    say the one that Apple includes with OS X, the Adobe copyright notices all vanish!
    All 4883! Amazing! Could it be that Apple is deliberately trying to thwart Adobe's
    plot to claim copyright on every document known to man???\r\n\r\nOf course not.
    It's because your claim is absurd.\r\n\r\nClearly, the Adobe copyright notices
    refer to PostScript code dynamically generated by the Adobe PS driver, NOT the
    contents of the PDF document, or even the .ps document. The PostScript code is
    necessary to output the content to a PostScript-compatible output device. Only
    the content appears in the output. You will not see any Adobe copyright notices
    magically appearing in the output from the device because they have nothing to
    do with the content. The PostScript code is merely a means to an end, and it is
    obviously the means that Adobe is claiming copyright on, not the end. Otherwise
    you would see Adobe copyright notices on every page printed from an Adobe PS device.\r\n\r\nI
    feel like I'm trying to explain to a child that there are no little people inside
    the television set. And the child keeps saying, \"But look! Little people!\""
  created: '2009-12-18 18:38:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\n> I feel like I\u2019m trying to explain to a child
    that ...\r\n\r\nI have the same feeling too.\r\n\r\nWhen I open a novel, I see
    only ONE copyright notice.\r\n\r\nDo you know, why? Because ONE novel is only
    ONE work.\r\n\r\nThere are shysters who want to make dimwitted court judges believe
    that a 200-page novel with 40 lines per page consists of 8000 works. But a novel
    is only ONE work, not thousands of works.\r\n\r\nThe same is true here: Adobe
    System Incorporated wants to make dimwitted judges believe that ONE printer file
    consists of thousands of copyrighted works. For this purpose, Adobe System Incorporated
    inserts thousands of copyright notices into printer files.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-18 19:56:53'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "Interpretation #1: \r\n\r\nAdobe has inserted thousands of false copyright
    notices into postscript files in order to intentionally claim rights to thousands
    of individual works.\r\n\r\nInterpretation #2:\r\n\r\nUnder certain circumstances,
    as an unintended side-effect of the process by which a postscript file is generated,
    numerous copyright notices are accidentally generated and inserted into a postscript
    file--thereby, in effect, constituting a \"bug\" in the software.\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ockham%27s_razor|Occam's
    razor - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia]]"
  created: '2009-12-18 20:24:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Uli, have you never opened a magazine and seen a copyright notice next to
    a photo (attributed to the photographer) or on an ad (attributed to an advertiser)
    and yet another one on the contents page of the magazine (attributed to the publisher
    of the magazine)? Oh my god! The publisher is \"obviously\" claiming copyright
    over the ads and photos since they are contained within the magazine! How can
    this be???\r\n\r\nHas it occurred to you that your understanding of copyright
    law might be lacking? Not to mention your grasp of the PostScript page description
    language?"
  created: '2009-12-18 20:51:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">But see here:\r\n\r\nGood! We're just hard working folks, take your case
    to him! \r\nI'm sure he's got plenty of time for you and the \"little pill you
    took today.\" \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-18 21:04:24'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I find it hard to believe that you guys are \u2014 one one hand \u2014 so
    disparaging about Uli, and \u2014 on the other hand \u2014 take time and make
    an effort to respond to his posts.\r\n\r\nJust do the same as I do with posts
    by Rasendyll here in \u2018Release\u2019: don\u2019t open them, don\u2019t react
    to them.\r\n\r\nNamaste!\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-12-18 22:19:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I agree that it's probably a waste of time as far as convincing him, but I
    don't think it's a waste of time to point out how absurd it is for the sake of
    those (maybe not many) who might interpret a lack of response as tacit acknowledgment
    of the validity of his claims. Well, okay, mostly a waste of time.
  created: '2009-12-18 22:38:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\n> Uli, have you never opened a magazine \r\n\r\nAs
    opposed to you, I once was the editor in chief of a computer magazine.\r\n\r\nHere
    is one of the 4883 sections from the PS file, starting with a copyright line and
    ending with a copyright line:\r\n\r\n<strong>%%Copyright: Copyright 2037 Adobe
    System Incorporated. All rights reserved.</strong>\r\nsystemdict begin\r\n/XKLAAA+Interstate-Black
    findfont dup\r\n/Private get dup rcheck\r\n{begin true}{pop false}ifelse exch\r\n/CharStrings
    get begin\r\nsystemdict /gcheck known {currentglobal currentdict gcheck setglobal}
    if\r\n/F <1C60D8A8C9B647203E33724EAD15A63443573BE10E38E422B98DD0D8CB50\r\nBEFC7D0B3933BCE3575B9C>
    |-\r\n/O <1C60D8A8C9B611AF7D30CDD635D123761F64CF30F58A52AD4BC4DC085C81\r\n1DBBF2139FC81D71631D6CF05C48B9CF305BDDE7DC24C643412054B303F75553\r\nD16DCEB4F07EEFC0186D28FA7ED7B5770410>
    |-\r\n/N <1C60D8A8C9B6E9C31455B9A91EE7C51E6B41686C1DA2314EC297A5F154FC\r\n0151446E069BC4841F6A4FC108EDAFE409CDF8F347BEB80E676A18460D8BF69F\r\n6EEF0B7EB848FBED2195>
    |-\r\n/T <1C60D8A8C9B653D76D5E115C5FA7AC6F6C574195059FB91CA01446E07455\r\n8CE20EF823D5>
    |-\r\n/space <1C60D8A8C9B820E227> |-\r\n/B <1C60D8A8C9B600E03FCFCF8A62DA8524663E60782D87BFC54856D9619F61\r\nF77354B6D64590974B79BC96809DD31DE7A2DD1B837148C1B5E59EBCB1C3E8BD\r\nCCB0957CD6DA66615D552CCBF7E2D4E72C2EF13B941F871709695406F9DE765A\r\nE403F9942CCBC6>
    |-\r\n/U <1C60D8A8C9B6E156CCF3B7F970E96F466445ECDC37A193B08EC6D0A79886\r\n75879EAF73AFB39BE72EF97BB8B384F9F03430A0D911F893949338D756>
    |-\r\n/R <1C60D8A8C9B601B67B7576E28C38A1A47CC596A989D27D669061B572883F\r\nEDCC8493EE1BD6EA3FE4853330CAD5DD709AFF0B104B33A3446D4815673653B5\r\nCD782780105F78F20B920E774384>
    |-\r\n/E <1C60D8A8C9B64EDFFB807287B962D470369964FA845A19A69B899736F153\r\nD9D09DDBE63D6D458641B70D3114F3>
    |-\r\n/A <1C60D8A8C9B6EFA83F92740EE627D45CDD9109CB8AAAF3FCBCF8EBD07475\r\nA8254610043DAE8DD6CF491DCBD4A6BE121B95F27434D5494D0D069F9A8EEC8E\r\nB332D1>
    |-\r\nsystemdict /gcheck known {setglobal} if end {end} if\r\nend\r\n/XKLAAA+Interstate-Black
    findfont /Encoding get\r\ndup 70 /F put\r\ndup 79 /O put\r\ndup 78 /N put\r\ndup
    84 /T put\r\ndup 32 /space put\r\ndup 66 /B put\r\ndup 85 /U put\r\ndup 82 /R
    put\r\ndup 69 /E put\r\ndup 65 /A put\r\npop\r\nend\r\n%ADOEndSubsetFont\r\n/N2792
    12.9305 Tf\r\n(FONT BUREAU)\r\n[8.46954 9.72367 10.034 8.92202 4.5257 9.52972
    9.93064 9.51689 8.88335 9.659 9.93064 \r\n] pdfxs\r\nuserdict /pdf_svglb currentglobal
    put true setglobal\r\n%ADOBeginSubsetFont: WKFBAA+InterstateTab-Regular-Identity-H
    Initial\r\nAdobe_CoolType_Utility begin ct_MakeOCF begin ct_saveCIDInit\r\n%ADOt1write:
    (1.0.24)\r\n<strong>%%Copyright: Copyright 2037 Adobe System Incorporated. All
    rights reserved.</strong>\r\n\r\nIf you, Mr.  Simonson, are as clever as you claim
    to be, then\r\n\r\na) show the lines that constitute a copyrighted work by Adobe
    System, and\r\nb) show the lines that constitute a copyrighted work by Font Bureau.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-18 22:53:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The Adobe copyright notice immediately follows what it refers to, \"ADOt1write\":\r\n\r\n%ADOt1write:
    (1.0.24)\r\n%%Copyright: Copyright 2037 Adobe System Incorporated. All rights
    reserved.\r\n\r\nIn the code above, the font has already been defined, and this
    line just requests it:\r\n\r\n/XKLAAA+Interstate-Black findfont dup\r\n\r\nIn
    your original post, here is where an embedded font actually starts, and note that
    it includes a proper copyright notice:\r\n\r\n12 dict dup begin\r\n/FontType 1
    def\r\n/FontName /XKLAAA+Interstate-Black def\r\n/FontInfo 7 dict dup begin\r\n/Notice
    (Copyright (c) The Font Bureau, Inc., 2003. All rights reserved.) def\r\n\r\nReally,
    do you know anything about how PostScript code works?"
  created: '2009-12-18 23:18:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Also, FWIW, I don't really know why Adobe assigns the year dynamically to
    the copyright notice. I agree that it seems odd. But that's a side issue and has
    nothing to do with your assertion that they are claiming copyright ownership over
    other peoples' intellectual property. \r\n\r\nThe copyrights are clearly for portions
    of the PostScript code, just as there are copyright notices for the embedded fonts,
    which are also portions of the entire file (and also PostScript code). The idea
    that a .ps file can somehow legitimately contain only one copyright notice is
    absurd."
  created: '2009-12-18 23:45:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Merry Christmas, Mark I'll bet we get  more snow here in Virginia to night
    than you do in Minnesota ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-19 02:20:06'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: Thanks Uli. I've been looking for some bedtime reading.
  created: '2009-12-19 02:52:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Merry Christmas, Mark I\u2019ll bet we get more snow here in Virginia
    to night than you do in Minnesota ;-)</em>\r\n\r\nSo I hear. Although it's nothing
    to what you get sometimes in cyberspace. Happy holidays!"
  created: '2009-12-19 03:28:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\n1.\r\n\r\n> Really, do you know anything about how
    PostScript code works?\r\n\r\nHere is a specimen:\r\n\r\n<strong>% Adobe's Whyte
    Christmas\r\n/Schrift {/h exch def\r\n  /Serifa-Black findfont\r\n  h scalefont\r\n
    \ setfont} bind def\r\n150 Schrift\r\n20 200 moveto\r\n(ADOBE) true charpath clip
    newpath\r\n6 Schrift\r\n.5 setgray\r\n-200 0 moveto\r\n40 {gsave\r\n 20 {(Whyte
    Christmas ) show} repeat\r\n grestore\r\n 4 10 rmoveto} repeat\r\nshowpage</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Whyte-Christmas.pdf\r\n\r\n2.\r\n\r\n>
    The copyrights are clearly for portions of the PostScript code\r\n\r\nCopyright
    notices must not be affixed to portions, but only to works\r\n(see \xA7 401 US
    Copyright Law).\r\n\r\nNone of the four thousand eight hundred eighty-three lunatic
    copyright lines was affixed to a work."
  created: '2009-12-19 08:48:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "As Mr. Simonson did not give technical explanations, I do it myself here:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/interstate.pdf"
  created: '2009-12-19 12:23:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.html\r\n\r\nIn particular...\r\n\r\n\xA7
    103. Subject matter of copyright: Compilations and derivative works\r\n\r\n[...]\r\n\r\n(b)
    The copyright in a compilation or derivative work extends only to the material
    contributed by the author of such work, as distinguished from the preexisting
    material employed in the work, and does not imply any exclusive right in the preexisting
    material. The copyright in such work is independent of, and does not affect or
    enlarge the scope, duration, ownership, or subsistence of, any copyright protection
    in the preexisting material."
  created: '2009-12-19 15:53:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> In particular...\r\n\r\nWhen I make a PS book file of the new edition of
    my Sanskrit book, which was written by me alone without co-authors, and which
    uses my own Sanskrit fonts, and when I see that Adobe inserts more than 1600 (sixteen
    hundred) copyright notices (\"Copyright 2009 Adobe System Incorporated. All rights
    reserved\") into my book file, do you think that Adobe System Incorporated is
    the coauthor or editor or compiler of my own book?\r\n\r\nPS: This 500+ page book
    file contains only ONE copyright notice by myself, but 1600 copyright notices
    by Adobe System Incorporated."
  created: '2009-12-19 16:57:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>...do you think that Adobe System Incorporated is the coauthor or editor
    or compiler of my own book?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Please see (b) above."
  created: '2009-12-19 18:07:00'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Maybe we need to get to four thousand eight hundred and eighty eight posts
    on this subject before Uli will understand that Adobe is only copyrighting the
    Acrobat Postscript and not the included fonts, photographs or any other content
    placed by the user in the generated PDF file. PostScript was the basis for the
    founding of Adobe and for a number of years the company's best income generator
    - today Adobe has branched out in a variety of directions and PostScript and fonts  are
    no longer as important as they used to be.
  created: '2009-12-19 21:33:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> As opposed to you, I once was the editor in chief of a computer magazine.\r\n\r\n\r\nEvery
    story has a beginning, middle and an end; I don't see it  here. Moreover, I don't
    see  the Five Ws. If you think that you have an exclusive -- publish it.  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-19 22:46:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@uli\r\n\r\nWhen I have a chance I'll look at your documents\r\n&copy; 2009
    Richard Fink All Rights Reserved\r\n\r\nand try to figure out exactly what you're
    referring to.\r\n&copy; 2009 Richard Fink All Rights Reserved\r\n\r\nBut certainly
    it seems like excessive use of \r\n&copy; 2009 Richard Fink All Rights Reserved\r\n\r\ncopyright
    notices is a waste of system resources.\r\n&copy; 2009 Richard Fink All Rights
    Reserved"
  created: '2009-12-20 03:11:23'
date: '2009-12-16 12:28:50'
title: In the Year 2525

---
