---
author:
  name: Bert Vanderveen
  picture: 109809
body: 'In the last issue of the digital inDesign Magazine FontLab states: Fontographer
  for Mac and Windows is coming soon.'
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Do you mean an updated version?
  created: '2009-12-16 21:25:56'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Going by the info FontLab has provided it is going to be a Mac OS X compatible
    version that will be really up to date.\r\nVery NEW version, iow.\r\n\r\n. . .\r\nBert
    Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-12-16 22:20:42'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Any chance of RoboFog for OS X? (fingers crossed really really tightly).
  created: '2009-12-16 23:34:48'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I still use RoboFog for glyph design, and have to have a Mac with OS 9 alongside
    with OS X computer. And I'm not the only one; Christian Schwartz told me that
    he uses RoboFog as well. That was some years back, but still, could we make a
    petition to get Letterror guys to make a new one?\r\n\r\nPlease."
  created: '2009-12-16 23:43:09'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Pretty please?
  created: '2009-12-17 00:35:52'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Honestly.
  created: '2009-12-17 00:36:15'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Pretty pretty please with sugar on top?
  created: '2009-12-17 00:46:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Unfortunately, RofoFog is based on Fontographer 3.5, a version which Fontlab
    Ltd. cannot maintain (we have not received the source code). Also, the RoboFog
    developers have long moved to RoboFab, a fully new font development environment,
    and they also established UFO as a new font interchange format. \r\n\r\nThere
    are several RoboFab-based applictions available (Metrics Machine, Superpolator,
    Prepolator, Glyphs). We at Fontlab Ltd. have supported RoboFab from its inception,
    and we are now working on supporting UFO natively in our applications. It is likely
    that Fontographer 5.0 will be able to read UFO files, and we have plans to have
    full read-write support in Fontographer, TransType, FontLab Studio and other applications.
    \r\n\r\nFontographer 5.0 is indeed under development. We are making good progress
    on the project. There will be a native Mac OS X version (universal binary) and
    a Windows version. The editing tools will stay largely the same, although some
    improvements have been made, especially in the user interface. Fontographer 5
    will also include a streamlined Font Info dialog box (with much better family
    naming and linespacing management, hopefully much better than anything that we've
    made before), OpenType support (including quite smart, automatic OpenType Layout
    feature generation), better Unicode support. \r\n\r\nThe output of OpenType (PS
    .otf and TT .ttf) fonts will be handled using FontLab's industry-standard output,
    so fonts made with Fontographer 5 will be technically fully up-to-date. \r\n\r\nIn
    short, Fontographer 5 will be a pure type design application: stable, good, streamlined
    tools for type design. The type designer won't need to bother about any technical
    parameters, most of the work will be done automatically behind the scenes, producing
    optimized OpenType fonts (of course you'll still be able to make Mac and Windows
    Type 1 fonts). \r\n\r\nIt will be more powerful than TypeTool and less complex
    than FontLab Studio. We hope that it will hit the \"sweet spot\" between simplicity
    and power. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 13:09:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I cheer!\r\n\r\nBest!"
  created: '2009-12-17 13:15:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@twardoch\r\n\r\nAdam, \r\n\r\nIs the price point also sweet? Fontlab's price
    point takes it out of the running for, say, a web designer who just wants to keep
    a decent font editor handy in the toolbox.\r\nCan you give a ballpark price?\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-26 03:46:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Adam, I noticed that you mentioned RoboFab in there. Is Fontographer 5 going
    to be scriptable and work with RoboFab so that FontLab Studio users can take our
    scripts right into Fontographer?
  created: '2009-12-26 04:21:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Richard, \r\n\r\nCurrently, Fontographer 4.7 sells at US$349, which is sort
    of half-way between TypeTool and FontLab Studio. We have not announced the final
    price for Fontographer 5, but one can expect that we will stick to the aforementioned
    principle. \r\n\r\nJames, \r\n\r\nwe are looking into the possibility of adding
    Python scripting (compatible with the FontLab Python scripting API, i.e. compatible
    with RoboFab) into Fontographer. While this is possible in theory, one needs to
    keep in mind that Fontographer is largely based on Macromedia code (though Fontographer
    5 will be extended with FontLab code to ensure that opening and generating fonts
    will be done at our industry-standard quality). \r\n\r\nWe do have \"full blown\"
    Python scripting in FontLab Studio 5, and we have simple scripting support in
    TransType Pro 3. While we will not add Python scripting into the initial Fontographer
    5 release, we are investigating the feasibility of doing this in a later release.
    \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-12-26 23:08:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026one needs to keep in mind that Fontographer is largely based
    on Macromedia code\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks. On the same topic, will Fontographer
    go forward with the Macromedia code from version 5, or will future versions be
    built using the same codebase as FontLab 7?"
  created: '2009-12-27 00:00:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nwe have several projects on our draftboard that are paving
    our way for the time after Fontographer 5 and FontLab Studio 6, but it's too early
    to announce the details. There are some very interesting and valuable aspects
    of both the Macromedia codebase and the FontLab Studio codebase, plus we are developing
    a new codebase. In general, our goal is to use the best aspects of our developments,
    while discarding the outdated and obsolete parts. \r\n\r\nAlso, we will evaluate
    the future directions after gathering some experiences on how FOG5 and FLS6 have
    been received. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2009-12-27 13:27:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@twardoch\r\n\r\n>Currently, Fontographer 4.7 sells at US$349, which is sort\r\n>of
    half-way between TypeTool and FontLab Studio.\r\n>one can expect that we will
    stick to the aforementioned\r\n>principle. \r\n\r\nThanks for the info.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-28 03:52:01'
- author:
    name: dpiderman
  body: "I'm sure Fontographer 5 will have smooth and accurate previews. Will kern
    editing be improved? I sure hope so. \r\n\r\nThere used to be a plug-in for Quark
    (back in the 90s) called KernEdit. It allowed you to adjust kerning in context
    and save it directly into the font file using keystrokes while going through pages
    of text and kerning pairs -- a very efficient way to adjust kerning. \r\n\r\nI'm
    looking for a utility which does just that. It would be great if Fog5 incorporated
    something similar. Any news on that?\r\nDani"
  created: '2010-02-03 14:26:39'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Hi Mr trwardoch\r\n\r\nCan we expect antialiasing or will imported images
    still be bitmaps?\r\nI think it's strange that on the fontlab site there's not
    a peep about fog 5\r\nand that any info to be had is in here. pip pip"
  created: '2010-03-25 13:00:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Can our grandchildren expect, that \u2026? I hope the price will not change,
    because probably US$349 is less than the costs of a burger, when the next version
    of Fontographer is released."
  created: '2010-03-25 14:42:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Adam!
  created: '2010-03-25 15:18:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I think it's strange that on the fontlab site there's not a peep about
    fog 5\r\n> and that any info to be had is in here.\r\n\r\nI don't think it's strange.
    Forums such as Typophile allow less formal discussions about topics, without the
    \"burden\" of an \"official\" announcement. We use the feedback on the FontLab
    Forum and on Typophile to improve our products. Our official website will include
    a finalized and streamlined announcement that will present the finalized product
    -- which currently is still taking shape. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-27 20:22:24'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Adam\r\n\r\nLet me be more precise\r\nI was in a newsagent last Thursday\r\nmorning
    in Liverpool St station.\r\nI picked up \"Design Week\" \u2013 in it was a \r\nfull
    page ad for Fontographer 5\r\nGreat I thought, and went on to the \r\nFontlab
    site. No mention of it \r\nAll  you needed to say was \"Fontographer\r\n5 coming
    soon\"\r\n\r\n\r\nSo it's a sense of frustration\r\nthat made me post what I did.\r\n\r\nBut
    I am very much looking forward\r\nto seeing high quality previews\r\nof scanned
    drawings and typeforms \r\n\r\ncheers\r\n "
  created: '2010-03-29 14:23:28'
- author:
    name: keith
    picture: 109891
  body: "I am informed that Fontographer 5 will be released on Monday 10th May \u2013
    new look, useful guides that aren't black, OpenType-friendly. Fablious, exciting
    news."
  created: '2010-05-05 14:55:56'
- author:
    name: Joebob
    picture: 111188
  body: "@Twardoch: Can you tell me if the autotrace function will be improved?\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Joe"
  created: '2010-05-05 17:45:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I am informed that Fontographer 5 will be released on Monday 10th May\r\n\r\nThis
    *is* actually news to me since we haven't set a release date yet. But it is safe
    to say that Fontographer 5 is \"coming very soon\". \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-05-06 20:44:32'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: 'On the Fontlab site it says Fontographer 5 is "coming soon"  It also says
    it will be released in May 2010. That means sometime before Monday. Well I''m
    waiting (sound of fingers drumming on desk in the middle of a rainy bank holiday
    in London)  '
  created: '2010-05-29 13:39:14'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Photofont QX is still announced for 2009 and coming soon. But better waiting
    than getting a program, that is loaded with bugs. (Although sometimes you wait
    <em>and</em> get a program, that is loaded with bugs.)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/photofont/qx/"
  created: '2010-05-29 18:33:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You could indeed say "very soon", but "imminently" sounds more impressive
    and has more wiggle room :-)
  created: '2010-05-29 19:59:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I always forget. What is the name of Fontographer's biggest competition and
    what are the pro's and con's of each? I may have the opportunity to design a typeface
    next year and if all goes well the department will pay for the software. If I
    recall, Fontographer is easier to use but the other one offers greater control?\r\n\r\nTo
    Shinn, what software do you use to design fonts and why?"
  created: '2010-05-29 22:00:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: FontLab Studio is "the other". They are both sold by the same company.
  created: '2010-05-29 22:22:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: I can't speak for Nick Shinn, but I use Fontographer for importing EPS files,
    basic housekeeping, and rough spacing. In FOG, with simple keystroke combinations,
    I can add extrema, correct path direction and remove overlaps 1-2-3. FOG also
    lets you perform rotate and flip operations to composite characters, which can
    be handy at times. However, for the industrial-strength work, I generate a Type
    1 font file, then open it in FontLab. FL5's whole-em-unit point placement and
    extra levels of zoom allow for a much higher degree of fine-tuning than FOG allows.
  created: '2010-05-29 22:33:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Christopher, I started out with Fontographer in '93, but switched to FontLab
    in 2005, as Fog had fallen beside the way. I suppose I could pick up with the
    resurrected Fog again, but I've become acclimatized to Flab. I've never used Illustrator
    to draw glyphs, although I was quite adept with it in the early 90s.
  created: '2010-05-29 23:41:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>FOG also lets you perform rotate and flip operations to composite characters,
    which can be handy at times. </em>\r\n\r\nOff topic, but...\r\n\r\nYou can do
    this in FontLab, too, although it may not be obvious how: Select the component.
    In the Properties panel, in the Scale section, enter -100 in the X field to flip
    horizontal; -100 in the Y field to flip vertical; or -100 in both to rotate 180\xB0."
  created: '2010-05-30 00:34:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Just realised that I've been using FontLab alomost every day for sixteen years.
  created: '2010-05-30 04:10:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The package says you should be wary of typographic erection that lasts for
    more than 4 years. \r\nHave you seen a physician? \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-30 12:03:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, and two quaint old cast-iron bathtubs mysteriously appear in the forest
    when you use it :-)
  created: '2010-05-30 12:45:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "...or you can just flip by right clicking in the glyph window> Outline >H
    mirror, V mirror. \r\nRotate by selecting all, double click, hold shift (for constrained
    angles) and rotate with the rotation icon that appears when moving the mouse to
    the middle node on the right hand side."
  created: '2010-05-30 12:57:33'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Just realized that I\u2019ve not been using FontLab for more than sixteen
    years ;-)"
  created: '2010-05-30 13:59:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>...or you can just flip by right clicking in the glyph window> Outline
    >H mirror, V mirror.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, yeah. Forgot about that, I guess. But you
    still can't rotate components, except by 180\xB0 (using a flip and a mirror)."
  created: '2010-05-30 15:11:05'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>You can do this in FontLab, too, although it may not be obvious how:
    Select the component. In the Properties panel, in the Scale section, enter -100
    in the X field to flip horizontal; -100 in the Y field to flip vertical; or -100
    in both to rotate 180\xB0.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>...or you can just flip by right clicking
    in the glyph window> Outline >H mirror, V mirror.\r\nRotate by selecting all,
    double click, hold shift (for constrained angles) and rotate with the rotation
    icon that appears when moving the mouse to the middle node on the right hand side.</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I should have said there's no way to rotate components <em>easily</em>..."
  created: '2010-05-30 18:08:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: It's simple once you get the hang of it.
  created: '2010-05-30 18:49:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "It\u2019s still May 2010 in Alaska."
  created: '2010-06-01 07:21:22'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: Having May 2010 as the release date on the Fontlab site when it is now June
    1 does not inspire me with any confidence
  created: '2010-06-01 08:03:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "OK, it is now corrected to say June 2010 ;)\r\n\r\nIt *is* really coming
    soon. We've found some last-minute problems that we decided to fix before release.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-03 01:16:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, by all means a good decision, fix it before release.
  created: '2010-06-03 01:26:46'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Thats a pretty cool hat by the way Adam.\r\ndo you know how much it will
    cost in British pounds \r\n(Fontographer 5 not the hat) cheers"
  created: '2010-06-03 12:32:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I think Adam got that hat from Thelonious Monk :-)
  created: '2010-06-03 13:35:49'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The suggested retail price for Fontographer 5 will be US$399. Upgrade for
    version 4.7 users will be US$149 and for version 3.x and 4.1 users will be US$199.
    I don't know the GBP or EUR prices yet, but if you order online from fontlab.com,
    it'll be the same price converted to your local currency plus your local VAT.
    \r\n\r\nI bought my hat in a 2nd-hand shop here in Berlin. Recently, I found a
    scrap of a German newspaper folded inside my hat. The newspaper is from 1976,
    I'm 35 now, so the hat may very well almost as old as I am, or possibly even older.
    I like my hat very much. :)\r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-03 14:13:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: <|;-)
  created: '2010-06-03 15:39:26'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: But it doesn't have any corners so it can't be your hat
  created: '2010-06-08 14:33:42'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Und h\xE4tt' er nicht drei Ecken\r\nDann w\xE4r' er nicht mein Hut oder 'was
    ahnliches\r\nYou must surely know that song\r\n\r\nA question for Mr Twardoch.
    I have an ancient version of Fontographer (3.3)\r\n(it should really be in a museum)
    I registered with Altsys and got Fontographer 4, the thing is I have lost my Fontographer
    4 serial number although I still have all the Fontographer 3.3 discs and seriel
    numbers. Is it possible to buy Fontographer 5 as an upgrade with this documentation?"
  created: '2010-06-13 19:03:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Well, Adam has already said:\r\n\r\n\"...and for version 3.x and 4.1 users
    will be US$199.\"\r\n\r\nSo, presumably, either of the versions you had (or still
    have) would be eligible for the same US$199 upgrade price.\r\n\r\nVersion 4.7
    is the Mac-only one released by FontLab a few years ago."
  created: '2010-06-13 22:05:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Gary, \r\n\r\nany 3.x version (Altsys) as well as 4.0.x and 4.1.x (Macromedia)
    will be eligible for the $199 upgrade. The 4.7 version released by FontLab in
    November 2005 will be eligible for the $149 upgrade. \r\n\r\nIt's really coming
    soon :) Definitely in June, I'd say. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-13 23:33:52'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "That makes it \xA3134. Yes I can do that hurrah\r\nThanks Adam and Mark I'll
    buy you a coffee when you are\r\nnext in London.  "
  created: '2010-06-15 11:25:05'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: 'That''s great news  '
  created: '2010-06-15 11:26:03'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Hey Adam,\r\n\r\nGive us some hints... what kinds of new bells and whistles
    will Fontographer have? "
  created: '2010-06-16 10:33:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Some selected highlights of the upcoming Fontographer 5 version include:
    \r\n\u2014 glyph antialiasing (smoothing) in all application windows and glyph
    window zoom level up to 1600%; \r\n\u2014\_radically redesigned and updated, easy-to-use
    Font Info dialog for editing the relevant technical parameters, with updated,
    intelligent automatic generation of OpenType-compatible font family naming and
    of cross-plattform linespacing values; \r\n\u2014 reading and generating OpenType
    fonts (both PS/.otf and TT/.ttf flavor) with 20,000+ glyphs, with the ability
    to define the features using the most recent Adobe FDK for OpenType (AFDKO) version
    2.5 syntax; \r\n\u2014 reading and generating the FontLab VFB format for easy
    integration into a FontLab-based workflow;\r\n\u2014 the Adobe PostScript autohinter
    and the excellent FontLab TrueType autohinter, integrated Adobe and Microsoft
    rasterizers for high-quality bitmap generation from the hinted outlines, and the
    ability to export the bitmaps into the BDF format. \r\n\r\nThis is only a selection
    of the improvements, there are many more, including some nice surprises. \r\n\r\nFontographer
    5 will run natively on Mac OS X (universal binary), Windows XP, Windows Vista,
    and Windows 7. "
  created: '2010-06-16 12:10:37'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "[Salivating\u2026]"
  created: '2010-06-16 17:37:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Adam, will the new Fontographer be Python scriptable?
  created: '2010-06-16 18:17:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>reading and generating the FontLab VFB format for easy integration
    into a FontLab-based workflow;</cite>\r\n\r\nI really hope UFO not being part
    of that sentence was just an oversight."
  created: '2010-06-16 18:53:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nthe initial release of FOG 5.0 will not be scriptable but we
    are considering enabling scripting at a later point. \r\n\r\nJames, \r\n\r\nwe
    have built a UFO reader but not yet a writer. UFO won't be part of FOG 5.0, but
    we definitely plan to support it in later releases (and in the next FontLab Studio).
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 22:24:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>UFO won't be part of FOG 5.0\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nSigh\u2026"
  created: '2010-06-16 23:21:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Well, if we make decisions between "do we want to implement UFO in this release"
    and "do we want to make sure that this release produces fonts that don't break",
    I hope you understand the necessity of prioritization :)
  created: '2010-06-17 00:02:44'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "It's HERE! http://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/fontographer/\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2010-06-17 03:55:07'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Since it is now out, I have some time to comment :)\r\n\r\nUFO: not in 5.0,
    even for reading. We just needed some more time to test it and decided to not
    delay release even further for this single reason. Will be added soon: code is
    done, just needs some attention.\r\n\r\nScripting: on our list for future update,
    but it will depend on how good it will go. Fog5 project already took much more
    time than we have planned, so we need to be very careful with our resources for
    some time. In any case, it will not be \"live scripting\" as in FLS, but \"in-out\",
    where font data is \"out\" to Python and then comes \"back\" from the script.
    Our plan is to make it Robofab-compatible.\r\n\r\nI/O: In Fog5 we have some mix
    of legacy and FLS code. Type3 input and output, MM output and .fog i/o (extended
    to support new stuff) is based on old Fog4 code. Everything else (OTF, TTF, T1,
    VFB, suitcases, export of BDF fonts) is hadnled by FLS, which is improved over
    5.x. OTF export is done with Adobe FDK 2.5, so yes, you can add GPOS stuff there.\r\n\r\nHinting:
    T1 glyph autohinting is done with Adobe algorithms. FLS code is not used. Font-level
    hints are generated by FLS algorithms in most cases, with one exceptions for alignment
    zones: in dialog box for their editing old Fog4 code is used (which is good and
    which is fixed compared to 4.7). Conversion of T1 hints to TT instructions is
    done by our code, the same that works in FLS5. \r\n\r\nBitmap generation (if you
    need that): as Adam said earlier, Fog5 uses native rasterizers when you generate
    NFNT bitmaps on export of suitcases (T1 or TT). Internally, in the UI it will
    run old rasterizer, unchanged since 4.1. \r\n\r\nWindows and Mac: two versions
    are equal with one exception: you cannot import and export mac-format fonts (LWFN
    T1s and T1/TT suitcases) in Win version. That will be added later if all goes
    well (and if anyone will ever need it)."
  created: '2010-06-17 09:24:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I have posted some clarification regarding working with bitmaps to \r\nhttp://forum.fontlab.com/fontographer-b8.0/\r\n\r\nYou're
    invited to the Fontographer board on the FontLab forum! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-17 11:05:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Yuri, Adam,\r\n\r\nA question: What is meant by \"Fontographer 5 for Mac
    Add-on for registered FontLab Studio 5 users US$99\" -- is this a separate product
    that ties in with FL, or is it just FG5 Full Program at a special price for FL-owners?
    *confusion*\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBert"
  created: '2010-06-17 13:13:20'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<em>is it just FG5 Full Program at a special price for FL-owners?</em>\r\n\r\ntrue.
    :)"
  created: '2010-06-17 14:27:27'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Three questions please . . .\r\n\r\n1) Is importing from Illustrator the
    same? Re: using the block method will the copy/paste method as it currently works
    today . . . \r\n\r\n2) Doess the new version force points to snap to grid like
    FLAB on import  or do we still get points wherever we want till we do an align
    points to grid function?\r\n\r\n3) Is there a dialog to add OT features or is
    this limited to FLAB?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance . . .\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-06-17 14:41:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "It looks like the only way to add OT features (other than the kern feature)
    is using an external .fea file. So, you either code it by hand in a text editor
    or use some other program (e.g., FontLab Studio) to do it.\r\n\r\nSo, you <em>can</em>
    generate OT fonts with features, but you can't program the features within Fog."
  created: '2010-06-17 15:20:19'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: The installed Fontographer 5 Demo crashes on Windows XP SP3, when you start
    it.
  created: '2010-06-17 15:24:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Thanks for the details, Yuri. I\u2019ll look forward to seeing where you
    go with Fontographer in the future."
  created: '2010-06-17 15:41:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "1. The demo version for Windows has been updated now, sorry for that. Please
    re-download. \r\n\r\n2. The main organization for the windows is largely the same
    as in FOG 4, i.e. a Font Window, a Glyph Window, a Metrics Window. No classes
    editor, no OpenType features editor, no Preview panel etc. You can specify OpenType
    Layout features in an external text editor using the AFDKO 2.5 syntax. We plan
    auto-generation of OpenType Layout features for common European scripts in a later
    version, but there won't be a \"visual\" feature editor -- this is something for
    FontLab Studio. I mean, you can use Microsoft VOLT or the demo version of FontLab
    Studio, or one of the DTL applications or FontForge etc. to develop the features
    if you want. Or a text editor. Or something else (I think DTL announced a GPOSMaster
    which they will present at ATypI Dublin). But Fontographer has rock-solid glyph
    drawing, convenient and easy Font Info, solid PS and TT autohinting, and can \"do\"
    OpenType, in principle. \r\n\r\n3. The Illustrator copy-paste has been improved
    for format compatibility but the principle is the same. \r\n\r\n4. The fractional-coordinate
    drawing is the same as in FOG 4. Generally, the drawing interface is largely the
    same, except antialiasing and zoom up to 1600% (in FOG 4 it was 200%). \r\n\r\n5.
    The \"add-on\" basically means that as FontLab Studio user, you can buy Fontographer
    5 for $99 and use both at the same time (so there is no special add-on application,
    you get the regular Fontographer 5 application). You can move your projects back
    and forth, you can e.g. design in FontLab Studio and then move to FOG and generate
    the fonts from there, benefitting from the much more cleaned up Font Info settings,
    the Adobe PS autohinting and the fact that it does AFDKO 2.5. So those who generated
    fonts using standalone AFDKO 2.5 could use FOG 5 now, then they'll be able to
    use Adobe PS autohinting and AFDKO 2.5 compilation, but also the FontLab-quality
    PS-to-TT hint conversion. Or, if you like FOG's simple drawing tools better, you
    can draw in FOG, then move to FLS5, use the class-kerning editor or Python scripting
    there, and then master your fonts in FLS. Whatever you like. FOG opens and exports
    VFB files. \r\n\r\nOne catch: FOG won't import the OpenType features from VFB.
    If you have feature code in FLS, save it as a FEA file, save the font as VFB,
    open the VFB in Fontographer, then in Font Info / Encoding, point to the FEA file
    for feature definitions. \r\n\r\nIt's not quite perfect but we didn't want to
    haphazardly clutter the FOG UI interface with new panels etc. -- that would make
    it the new FontLab Studio. However, there WILL be a new FontLab Studio. Fontographer
    is just an application that by definition is simpler, and should remain simpler.
    No manual fine control over some technical aspects of the font, but automatic
    algorithms instead. "
  created: '2010-06-17 16:13:44'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Yuri, Adam,\r\n\r\nThanks for the clarification...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBert"
  created: '2010-06-17 16:46:16'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: Thanks Mark and Adam . . .
  created: '2010-06-17 17:40:56'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hey Adam, can't seem to purchase the $99 add-on . . .\r\n\r\nHere's the link
    from your site: https://www.cleverbridge.com/313/uurl-utmo3mvi0k\r\n\r\nReports
    a failed page error . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2010-06-17 20:12:03'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It worked for me this morning, except that the download link was to version
    4.7. Sent an email to FontLab and got a correct link. No idea if it was fixed
    on the site or not, but I assumed so. Sounds like they are having problems with
    the purchase pages.
  created: '2010-06-17 20:59:27'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Looks like the link was working again and I just purchased my upgrade! That
    said, there are two significant problems I've noticed since playing in Demo mode
    while I wait for my serial number to arrive . . .\r\n\r\n1) Metrics Window - It
    took me a few minutes to discover how to load a text document in to run though
    since the link on the right is now on the left but I'm OK with that, what I don't
    like is that I've lost the ability to toggle through the document using the keyboard
    up and down arrow keys while in the text string window and now must move the mouse
    to click the string of text above and below or the arrows to the right . . .\r\n\r\n2)
    Autospacing - It's actually the same as it was before if not improved however
    even if you click the option to modify the left sidebearing, it always remains
    zero. Not that I use this feature much other than for quick 'what if' spacing
    reviews, but this has always bothered me and I was hoping it was fixed in this
    release . . .\r\n\r\nOtherwise, solid effort FontLab gang! Really, it's nice to
    have this old beast in my arsenal with shiny new teeth!\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-06-18 16:24:39'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "One other niggling thing I just noticed about the Metrics window . . . I
    used to be able to use the left and right arrow keys to move between sidebearing
    metrics from number to number, it is a very fast way to move between the numbers
    and I see it's only possible with the Tab key and Shift + Tab key . . .\r\n\r\nCan
    I get cursor keys back please? It makes for faster working rather more movements
    on the keyboard to move between metrics data . . .\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-06-18 16:28:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Stuart and others, \r\n\r\nwould you kindly post your suggestions that refer
    to Fontographer 5 at the <strong><a href=\"http://forum.fontlab.com/fontographer-wish-list-b10.0/\">Fontographer
    Wish List</a></strong> board on the FontLab Forum? \r\n\r\nWe'll be gathering
    feedback primarily there, and will compile a list of things to fix and implement,
    based on the suggestions posted on our forum. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-18 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nHas the Adobe type 1 hinting algorithm replaced the old auto-hinting
    method of FOG or is there some special command to invoke? \r\nI will be going
    back and forth from FontLab to FOG and am trying to figure out the best workflow.\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2010-06-18 17:36:30'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nYou are using FontLab, aren\u2019t you? If yes, you also can
    use the Adobe autohinting program directly in FontLab. The advantage is, that
    you can decide, if you want to use simple hints or complex hints with hint replacement
    instructions. You only have to start the AFDKO autohinting macro with pressed
    control key and a click onto the AFDKO autohinting macro, if you want to display
    the autohinting options panel.\r\n\r\nAnd as far as I have understood Adam and
    the Fontographer 5 manual, there is one PS autohinter (the AFDKO autohinter) in
    Fontographer 5 only, but I may be wrong and wasn\u2019t asked. Your English is
    better than mine."
  created: '2010-06-18 18:43:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Yes, FOG5 only includes the Adobe autohinter, which is built-in. In FLS5,
    you can use the Adobe autohinter as a macro if you install the standalone AFDKO
    2.5 installer and copy the macros that come with it into the FLS5 macro folder. '
  created: '2010-06-18 19:01:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Adam, running the Adobe autohinter as a macro in FLS doesn't support flex
    hints. In order to get flex hints, you have to run the AFDKO autohinter directly
    on the font from the command line. Does FOG5 support the flex hints?
  created: '2010-06-18 19:43:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Adam, running the Adobe autohinter as a macro in FLS doesn't support
    flex hints.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes the FLS FontInfo option \"additional hinting parameters
    / automatically generate flex hints\" overwrite the hints, generated with the
    AFDKO autohinting macro?\r\n\r\nThis would mean, that it also overwrites the original
    FontLab Studio autohinting or the manual hinting, wouldn\u2019t it? The question
    is, whether the flexhint module, that is built into FontLab Studio, is the same
    as the one in the AFDKO. And maybe the generation of flexhints is dependent from
    the status of the \"autohint-on-export-option\"."
  created: '2010-06-18 20:26:32'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Yesterday I purchased Fontographer 5 electronically at the US$99 price available
    to registered FontLab Studio 5 users, received my serial number, and was sent
    a download link for the installer for version 4 (FG4WinFull.exe).  When I asked
    the download company (cleverbridge) about this, they said they only handle order
    and payment-related inquiries, so I thought I'd go ahead and install, assuming
    the upgrade was somehow built in.  No such luck.  Installation appeared to be
    successful, but the program will not come up, dying  with the old version's \"30202\"
    error message, caused by inability to handle excess RAM under Windows -- a problem
    I assumed was fixed in version 5.\r\n\r\nI'm sure Fontlab will get me the right
    version, but for now Windows users need to be careful.\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n\r\nWow,
    that was quick, I have just downloaded FG5WinFull.exe.  Guess I jumped the gun
    -- though getting things straight with the store-front would reduce anxiety."
  created: '2010-06-18 22:30:37'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<em>Does FOG5 support the flex hints?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but with FLS own code.
    So glyph-level hints are built by Adobe algorithm, while alignment zones, standard
    stems and flex are calculated the same way as in FLS5."
  created: '2010-06-18 22:52:26'
- author:
    name: keith
    picture: 109891
  body: "Two days into Fontographer 5 and I've still got a smile on my face. You've
    done a wonderful job \u2014 it looks beautiful, it feels great to use, and all
    the old keyboard commands are with my slippers, pipe and rocking chair next to
    the dog. Thank you FontLab for keeping faith with the faithful and breathing new
    life into our worthy old friend. I'm sure it can't have been easy to consolidate
    old and new coding, improve the functionality yet still retain the essential identity
    and superbly intuitive drawing tools of Fog, but you have succeeded, and I send
    you a big, heartfelt thankyou!\r\n\r\nKeith / K-Type\r\nManchester UK"
  created: '2010-06-21 09:08:02'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Adam: <em>I think DTL announced a GPOSMaster which they will present at ATypI
    Dublin</em>\r\n\r\nActually there is some work to do still. So, instead of launching
    GPOSMaster at ATypI Dublin, Dr. Willrodt will give a sneak preview of the programmed
    and planned functionality. More info can be found in <a href=\"http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/ATypI_2010/FMTrack_Dublin_2010.pdf\">this
    PDF</a>.\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-05 09:13:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...More info can be found in this PDF.\"\r\n\r\nThanks for posting the
    link, Frank."
  created: '2010-08-05 17:15:04'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>all the old keyboard commands are with my slippers</em>\r\n\r\nEvidently
    you don't use the Import EPS or Set Width (CTRL+Shift+S) commands..."
  created: '2010-08-05 19:10:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Nor have you attempted to select multiple glyphs?
  created: '2010-08-06 00:00:47'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Still tinkering \u2014 but overall I'm very pleased with the new version.
    Fast and snappy, and thankfully installs with those goofy sounds OFF as a default.
    And the display is so much smoother.\r\n\r\nI like that you can pick, say Latin
    Pro encoding (SC, I assume, means it has glyph slots to draw small caps \u2014
    this is not explained in the manual). I wish that the font window would label
    these extra slots with the names of the intended characters instead of \"**\".
    You can see the names when you open the outline windows, but I hate having to
    hunt for stuff.\r\n\r\nI always thought Fontographer's kerning assistance was
    more intuitive than FontLab's class-based kerning. However, I know there are limits
    to how many kerning pairs a program will recognize, hence the necessity for class-based
    kerning in OT fonts with many glyphs. I don't yet know how a complex OT font generated
    by the new Fontographer will work with, say, MS Word (the worst offender when
    it comes to arbitrarily tossing out kerning pairs). Experience will tell.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    it would be helpful if Fontographer would automatically generate certain OT features
    \u2014 or at least be able to allow a user to select certain pre-set OT features.
    I see no reason why \u2014 if a font contains things like small caps, ligatures,
    discretionary ligatures, OSF, historical forms, ordinals, fractions, etc \u2014
    that the program shouldn't automatically know that it should include these features
    when generating an OT font (providing the glyphs adhere to a standard naming system).
    And a user should also be able to select optional features, like case-sensitive
    forms. These sorts of things are only a few lines of code each, and common enough
    that the program should be able to handle this without the interface becoming
    cluttered. Apparently, this is in the works.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm very happy to
    be able to create OT fonts in Fontographer. Leslie Cabarga's book made FontLab
    a lot easier, and maybe I'll need to finish up my OT fonts in FontLab for now.
    It's a pleasure to work again in Fontographer tho. I never have to look anything
    up!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-08 00:18:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Greg, \r\n\r\nthings like more intuitive glyph cell captions, improved kerning
    assistance and automatic OT feature generation are all on our short list of things
    to do in Fontographer. We just did not have time to get those done in the initial
    5.0 release. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-08 18:36:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: In the 21st century, we know how to right-click...
  created: '2010-08-08 19:26:05'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "Nick, I don't and I won't. I prefer to option-click.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-09 01:23:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Nick, I don't and I won't. I prefer to option-click.</em>\r\n\r\nTo each
    his own. Still, a simple contextual menu--e.g., Copy, Copy Component, Paste--would
    have been a thoughtful and welcome addition."
  created: '2010-08-09 17:43:42'
- author:
    name: Freems
  body: "Is the Fontographer 5 ad-on for $99 still available for Fontlab 5 users?\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-14 21:42:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Is the Fontographer 5 ad-on for $99 still available for Fontlab 5 users?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    email I received\u2014and acted upon\u2014said the promo ended 31 July..."
  created: '2010-08-14 23:34:57'
- author:
    name: tharrson
  body: The special offer officially ended on 31 July and we have removed it from
    the website. However it appears that a few people missed it because of procrastination,
    vacation, spam filters or other excuses ;) so we're keeping it open unofficially
    for a while longer. You will have to contact Lisa directly at orders@fontlab.com
    in order to place the order.
  created: '2010-08-16 17:46:08'
- author:
    name: hdevogt
  body: "Help!  Need to add some glyphs to a font for screen display only -- no print
    output.\r\nI tried to purchase a Microsoft font from Ascender so that I could
    add the special glyphs, but they say that ONLY they (Ascender) could add characters
    to the font because of some special hinting that only they can edit with their
    specialized tool.  The price tag is unsuprisingly steep.  As a test, I did add
    glyphs to the TTF in Fontographer 4.1.5, but the font looked terrible.  Ascender
    said it was due to their hinting process.\r\n\r\nLicensing fees for both Bitstream
    and Adobe are cost prohibitive also (+$50,000).\r\n\r\nSo I go looking for a free-ware
    font.  A font named Liberation is beautiful and FREE! It's internal notice says,
    \"Digitized data \xA9 2007 Ascender Corporation. All rights reserved.\"  The font
    looks good in Arbortext before I add glyphs.  After I add glyphs with Fontographer
    and again the generated font look horrid!\r\n\r\nI'm guessing that I need to re-hint
    the entire font (daunting). Is this the real issue? Are there other work-arounds?
    \ \r\n\r\nIf it is the hinting, I need to upgrade my font editing software to
    do this.  \r\nShould I upgrade to Fontographer V.5 or get the FontLabs Suite?\r\n\r\nNote:
    \ This is a great site!  Learning a lot and having fun reading the forum, too.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-03 22:52:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'TypeTool or FontLab Studio can retain existing native TrueType hinting, Fontographer
    5 cannot. But the Fontographer 5 autohinting is considerably better than that
    of 4.1.5. '
  created: '2010-09-04 00:47:02'
date: '2009-12-16 21:20:02'
node_type: forum
title: Fontographer announced by FontLab

---
