---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "Ok, so I thought it time to come back to the crit forum after a bit of a break
  from here working on other designs. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Zocalo_4536.gif]\r\nHere
  is my new design, Mixteca Serif. You'll see in the pdf a bit of background about
  the design concept. Any crit would be very welcome; I'm hoping this can turn out
  to be really useable so tell me if there's anything you don't like or looks wonky.
  This has been six evenings' work, so I'm sure there's lots more to do. It reminds
  me a bit of Charter and a bit of FF Olsen, though I was thinking more along other
  lines: it actually started from playing with my first font, Eternal. \r\n\r\nFor
  some reason kerning didn't export with the otf file so the spacing looks a little
  gappy.\r\n\r\nLook forward to hearing your opinions! :) Thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I like it, but that K, with its open joining, stand out a little too much.
  created: '2009-12-17 09:15:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: You know, I was attached to the idea too, but agree it may need to come out.
    The overall glpyh looks too wide.
  created: '2009-12-17 12:32:16'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: It's not a bad idea per se, but I think the poor K feel a little lonely, being
    the only one... ;-)
  created: '2009-12-17 13:41:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Even before I read your description, I was already marvelling at how well
    this design works at both display and text sizes. It looks great. Your proportions
    are rock solid.\r\n\r\nThe spacing seems tight to me but I'm growing to think
    that's your style, and I don't see any major misfittings to trouble it.\r\n\r\nThe
    large serifs on the descenders work in concept, but they emphasize the stumpiness
    of the descenders on /p/ and /q/ and maybe get a little tight between serif and
    bottom of bowl on those letters. Would you consider lengthening your descenders?\r\n\r\n/S/
    kind of reminds me of Palatino.\r\n\r\nCap /J/ is an unhandsome glyph to my eyes.\r\n\r\nIs
    the arm of /r/ too light and/or short?\r\n\r\n/y/'s curving stroke looks too soft
    I think. Perhaps (but less certainly) Q's tail join too.\r\n\r\nSome combination
    of shaving weight off or slightly widening /w/ might be good.\r\n\r\n/x/ is awfully
    funky - it looks somewhat swastika-ish - but may be rare enough that you could
    get away with it.\r\n\r\nI love the bottom of /t/ - cool stuff!\r\n\r\nGlad to
    see Eternal actually isn't over!"
  created: '2009-12-17 15:29:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Like I said on Flickr, I really really like this one. I think you've got
    a very promising foundation here; I think it does still need a bit of time, and
    a bit of agonizing over detail decisions, and the diamond file; but if you allow
    it to have that, I think this can become seriously great.\r\n\r\nSalt ready? :)\r\n\r\nFirst,
    what are \"conventional proportions\"? You mean horizontally or vertically?\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure about the notch action in things like the \"c\". Especially in the \"a\"
    that device seems to be quite the hype recently, and I wonder if it really helps
    or if it's just stylistically pretty.* Especially in your \"c\", it seems to add
    a bit of broad-nib pen flavor that I'm not sure matches the angularity of the
    glyph, or the overall tone of the font. Dunno. In any case, you might need a concept
    for where to put these (or I'm just not seeing it). Why doesn't the cap \"C\"
    have the notch? Or the \"o\"?\r\n\r\nI'm also still not sure of the slanting half-serifs
    on diagonals. For one thing, the left counter of the \"w\" looks larger than the
    right. \r\n\r\n\"f\": Very cool!\r\n\"g\" seems a little dark.\r\n\"r\" needs
    a more determined terminal. Look at \"kerning\": This \"r\" is prime \"combine
    with 'n' and track in to make an instant 'm'\" material. :-)\r\n\"s\" looks too
    dark and/or needs more contrast. \r\n\"w\" also looks too dark.\r\n\"x\": Not
    sure, it is very funky. Looks a bit like an aleph. Hm. Craig, of course it's a
    rare letter \u2013 but OTOH, it looks like's in the font name!\r\n\"y\": Counter
    might be too wide. Also not a fan of the soft tail.\r\n\r\n\"A\": I guess that
    taper in the crossbar has carried over from Eternal, but why is it there? It's
    barely visible now.\r\n\"E\": Does the middle crossbar need more weight? The one
    in the \"A\" is much heavier. Also, why not put the flares the other way round,
    away from the stem \u2013 kinda like in the \"Z\"? (Also in \"F\" and \"L\".)\r\n\"F\":
    Slightly narrow?\r\n\"G\": Seems dark.\r\n\"J\": That terminal is maybe a bit
    overkill, no? :)\r\n\"M\": Yum! :)\r\n\"R\": I think this could use a less soft
    / more determined leg.\r\n\"T\": Why no flare?\r\n\"W\" and \"Z\" look dark.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I think the question mark is too oldstyle.\r\n\r\n* I think trying to balance
    functionality and style in a text font that also works for display is very ambitious;
    it might be fruitful to set clear priorities, like if you want to make this work
    as a text font, do that first, and then see what you'd need to change to make
    it also work for display? Maybe."
  created: '2009-12-17 19:17:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"K\": one very smart thing Zapf has said is that you must throw away
    your most favorite glyph.\r\n\r\nThe vertical proportions are indeed very good.\r\n\r\n>
    The spacing seems tight to me but I\u2019m growing to think that\u2019s your style\r\n\r\nI
    would worry about style intruding into something so technically delicate, especially
    in a text face. I would say it's indeed too tight, considering the small target
    point size.\r\n\r\n\"g\": Very nice. I'd make the right side of the bottom counter
    segmented.\r\n\r\n\"w\": Why so narrow?\r\n\r\n\"y\": Descender way too heavy.\r\n\r\n\"G\":
    Left curve too dark.\r\n\r\n\"Q\": Too dark.\r\n\r\n\"S\": Slightly too dark.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 19:18:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "(Nina) <em>\u201CE\u201D: Does the middle crossbar need more weight? The
    one in the \u201CA\u201D is much heavier. Also, why not put the flares the other
    way round, away from the stem \u2013 kinda like in the \u201CZ\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nOh
    yeah, I meant to say that too: the /E/ and /F/ look too heavy on the left/light
    on the right."
  created: '2009-12-17 19:33:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: What <em>is</em> the target point size?
  created: '2009-12-17 19:40:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm seeing 7-8.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 19:48:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "But the PDF says it's for books. \r\nMaybe that x-height is a bit on the
    large side, no?"
  created: '2009-12-17 19:51:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh. Wow, you actually read the text... Hey lady,\r\nspend enough time designing
    fonts, and you won't.  :-)\r\n\r\nWell, at 9 point maybe - but that's pushing
    it, both in terms of the font's proportions and the reading experience. To me
    this is much closer to being a news face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 19:56:34'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "What is the exact quote from Zapf, Hrant? It's profound!\r\nWhat does Mixteca
    mean, Bendy?\r\n\r\nGood effort, too good for me to crit."
  created: '2009-12-17 22:12:40'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Apart from the K!
  created: '2009-12-17 22:13:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mixtec
  created: '2009-12-17 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Nine should be fine :) I'm still a bit puzzled by the sharp node in the counter
    of c.
  created: '2009-12-17 22:26:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andrew, I don't remember the source* so can't look it up.\r\nI'm afraid you'll
    have to wait for me to run into it again some day...\r\n\r\n* Hmmm, where's that
    online interview\r\nfrom a few years back done by Linotype?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-17 22:52:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It might be somewhere in this exhaustive (but pretty fun and interesting)\r\n10-part
    interview: http://www.linotype.com/1494/theschoolyears.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-18 02:04:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Oh gosh! I was out playing in the snow and missed all this! Thanks guys,
    I'm delighted to have such positive feedback from people with such talent :)\r\nRight,
    a few comments for now.\r\n\r\nTarget size: I was thinking 8-10pt. I realise that
    might be quite a large range to cover and am learning more about these considerations
    only by listening to what you guys have to say on the matter...so if there are
    things I can do to make that work better then great, and if I need to be more
    specific then I will say let's make it the upper end of that range since it seems
    to take more technical experience to design really tiny faces? Although Hrant
    might have a point that this is already better suited for news. I'm really no
    expert.\r\n\r\nHrant, that is indeed a great quote. I was already thinking of
    throwing out the K and k but so far didn't due to other people suggesting it was
    a strong glyph. I think it was the first glyph I drew. Maybe I can keep it for
    something else.\r\n\r\nThe lowercase c: Right. That notch and the one in a were
    the start of an experiment that looks like it didn't work. Following Jos's advice
    on Flickr I drew the rest of the glyphs with smooth curves and hadn't come back
    to correct a and c; also wanted to see what feedback they would elicit. Still,
    I like the textured feel they bring in so need to think about how that could be
    maintained without the curve notches.\r\n\r\nSpacing: wow, this is where my noneducation
    is seriously getting in the way! I thought I'd made it pretty loose already! You
    know, I was hesitating about making a separate display cut since I really like
    chunky rather than overcontrasty and light faces. But I've rethought this now
    and there's no reason a display face shouldn't keep the characteristics I like
    so perhaps I will after all. I like Nina's footnote and agree that approach sounds
    right for this face.\r\n\r\nNina, conventional proportions: I meant that it wasn't
    as condensed as many of the trendy text faces (like the ones that come out of
    Reading's MATD); however, on reflection it seems to be following that model quite
    closely. \r\n\r\nJ: Aargh, I knew this was the weakest link and it'd be obvious
    I hadn't decided quite what was best for it. I tried various different treatments
    of the terminal and couldn't settle on any particular decision. Has anyone seen
    any fonts with a really good J? I was looking for something with unconventional
    treatment, again chunky and perhaps reversed stress?\r\n\r\nE,F: Yes, I see what
    you mean. Those serifs on the right need to be much bigger. May try reversing
    the flares too \u2014 thanks for the suggestion Nina. I did try flaring the T
    and it looked rubbish. Let's see."
  created: '2009-12-18 08:24:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it was the first glyph I drew.\r\n\r\nAh. That reinforces the dumping
    suggestion.  :-(\r\nIIRC, according to Carter a text face starts\r\nwith an \"n\"
    (meaning: something bland).\r\n\r\n> I thought I\u2019d made it pretty loose already!\r\n\r\nHave
    you printed it?\r\nBecause a text face always seems too loose when viewed large
    on-screen.\r\n\r\nBTW, I personally like the \"J\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-18 08:31:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Right, that sample is 10/13pt and to me the spacing when printed looks generous.
    Need to develop my eye a bit it seems :)\r\n\r\nI'll set a sample in smaller sizes
    and take it from there."
  created: '2009-12-18 10:57:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I meant that it wasn\u2019t as condensed as many of the trendy text
    faces\"</cite>\r\nAhh. Yes. I like the boxy/not-so-narrow proportions. \r\nMaybe
    they're part, though, of what makes this seem to target smaller point sizes than
    you wanted? Not sure.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I did try flaring the T and it looked rubbish.\"</cite>\r\nIt's
    probably good. It was more of a gut reaction on my part upon comparing with \"L\"
    and those others. FWIW I just looked at Chaparral, which has similar flares (if
    gentler), and that pulls it back quite a bit in the \"T\" too.\r\n\r\nGood \"J\"s:
    If I was you I'd probably start a new thread to collect those. :)\r\nFor the record,
    I've found those very hard to make good, too.\r\n\r\nBTW, I still think the \"k\"
    is a great glyph, taken by itself\u2026 but yes maybe it's too lonely in there.
    On the other hand though, I think it's the structure that makes it so nice, not
    the gap alone. Meaning it'll still rock without the gap."
  created: '2009-12-18 11:53:31'
- author:
    name: dtapia
    picture: 117998
  body: love it
  created: '2009-12-18 14:37:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> The lowercase c: Right. That notch and the one in a were the start of an
    experiment that looks like it didn\u2019t work.\r\n\r\nDoesn't the lowercase g
    also have one of those notches?"
  created: '2009-12-18 16:36:11'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: This looks a very assured design and I would love to see a hairline version.
  created: '2009-12-27 01:09:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Right ho.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mixteca Banner_4915.png]\r\nI've
    followed all the advice you've given me \u2014 thanks for some very good ideas.
    I think this is getting better. In addition to the tweaks suggested for g, k,
    r, s, v, w, y, A, D, E, F, G, K, Q, R, S, V, W, and Y, I've changed the descender
    of y and moved the serifs on Z.\r\nThe new pdf shows type at 10, 9, 8 and 7 points
    then various display sizes. I've put in lining numerals as well as oldstyle and
    I'm actually preferring the cap height ones and find the OS 5 isn't quite fitting
    with the rest yet.\r\nThere's also basic punctuation: I tried various styles of
    comma but this one looks most elegant IMO. Not sure about the questionmark.\r\nAs
    for other family members: yes, a hairline will look great. I'm really excited
    about making a lyrical but not soft italic.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 16:26:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good stuff.\r\n\r\nFirst thing: the spacing is too tight for the target size
    range (although the spacing is still to uneven to be sure by how much). BTW, if
    your target is around 9 (instead of the 8 I'm seeing now) I might raise the ascenders
    slightly (especially since the descenders are still a bit long in comparison).\r\n\r\ng:
    heavy at the bottom.\r\n\r\ny: superb!\r\n\r\nQ: much more tail please! Maybe
    a serif at the end.\r\n\r\nU: buttom-right needs liposuction! \r\n\r\nlining nums:
    3 and 5 too narrow.\r\n\r\nOS nums: 6 too wide, 8 too narrow.\r\n\r\nasterisk:
    very nice.\r\n\r\nparentheses: too dark.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 17:02:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "! A sample without gradients! \r\nSCNR. ;-)\r\n\r\nThis is looking super
    Ben!\r\nJust a couple of impressions/questions:\r\n\r\nSorry to bring this up
    once more, but I'm curious \u2013 on horizontals, have you tried putting the flares
    the other way round (so that they get thicker on the non-stem end, like on the
    \"Z\")? Not sure it'd work, but I keep wondering.\r\n\r\nAgree with Hrant that
    the \"g\" is dark in the tail, and the \"y\" is very cool. About the \"g\" I now
    wonder about the notch in the tail \u2013 it looks funky, but now that the other
    notches are gone, I wonder how much it still belongs in the font. \r\n\r\nI still
    wonder if the \"r\" could be made stronger \u2013 its foot serif is almost as
    strong as its, uh arm?. Maybe a terminal of some sort? But maybe it's OK.\r\n\r\n\"k\":
    I'd raise the crossbar. Maybe in the cap too.\r\n\r\nThe slanted half-serif on
    the top-left of the \"x\" feels alien to my eye.\r\n\r\nNot sure what to think
    of the OSF \"5\". It's a bit unexpectedly old-style with that upward top serif.
    But maybe that can actually work quite nicely.\r\n\r\nI like the big serifs on
    your nums (although the one on the lining \"5\" might be a bit much?), just wondering,
    have you tried a foot serif on the \"7\"? (You might have to \"Romanize\" its
    contrast for that to work, but then it might be Very Cool.)\r\n\r\n> making a
    lyrical but not soft italic\r\n\r\nThat sounds\u2026 interesting :)"
  created: '2009-12-31 17:28:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Glad this is meeting your approval, chaps!\r\n\r\nNina, the horizontals,
    do you mean specifically EF and L to take the flare pattern from Z and 2? Sounds
    like a good idea to try.\r\n\r\nThe g: I agree. I put the notch back in but not
    sure it worked. May remove both notches but am a bit worried it'll make the counters
    too small without some other solution.\r\n\r\nHrant: I'm wondering about the relative
    proportions of extenders. I thought the extenders should get longer at text sizes
    and shorter at display sizes, but it seems you're saying that a 9pt-optimal cut
    should have longer ascenders than an 8pt-optimal cut. Can you explain? And to
    me (and Craig I think), the descenders look quite short already, yet I think you'd
    like them to be somewhat shorter? Is that because of the large x-height and/or
    low cap height?\r\n\r\nHere's a quick sketch of a hairline cut. Hairlines are
    DIFFICULT! The a, b and u look a bit wide I think, but it's fixable![img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kambuja_5786.gif]"
  created: '2009-12-31 19:49:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Hey Ben, yes I meant the E/F/L. Guess that was a bit unclear, sorry.
  created: '2010-01-01 01:35:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Actually, I've just seen you did explicitly specify the EF&L in your first
    post above, sorry! Will try tomorrow ;)
  created: '2010-01-01 02:37:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Here we go:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flares_6640.gif]\r\nNina,
    I think your idea works better than the original. Thank you ;)"
  created: '2010-01-01 12:37:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting. I wonder. I now see that the other way round was probably more
    intuitive vis-\xE0-vis the serifs, but this seems to better \xABdefine\xBB the
    non-stem ends of the horizontals\u2026 Could you maybe show it in text?"
  created: '2010-01-01 14:24:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First, something I missed before: The bottom of the \"t\" is out of character.
    Maybe try a terminal like in the \"f\" and \"j\".\r\n\r\n> I thought the extenders
    should get longer\r\n> at text sizes and shorter at display sizes\r\n\r\nIn my
    view extenders do something mostly functional at text sizes, but mostly aesthetic
    at display sizes. So for text sizes they need to vary depending on the target
    point size, while for display they need to vary based almost entirely on your
    taste!\r\n\r\nEspecially in a text face, vertical proportions, color and spacing
    are very strongly inter-related. If you have a certain color, that implies a certain
    narrow range of proportions and spacing that can result in good readability. Usually
    it's best to decide the target point size (since that's what users mainly choose);
    the other two mostly follow from that.\r\n\r\nThe smaller the target text size,
    the larger the x-height needs to be (which means shorter extenders)*. What I'm
    seeing here is around 8-9 point. If you want to lean smaller I'd make the descenders
    shorter; if you want to lean larger I'd make the ascenders longer. So I'm not
    actually recommending one over the other; the main thing is for ascenders to be
    sufficiently longer than descenders. But of course this is not an exact science.\r\n\r\n*
    Don't worry about cap height too much here.\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm not good enough to
    be able to recommend small tweaks based on a PDF - I might be able to do it if
    I saw some hi-quality printed output. But really, such small degrees of change
    start wading into aesthetics (something no font is entirely devoid of) so you
    might easily disagree with somebody. My own taste BTW leans towards darkish fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 18:01:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm not sold on the serifs on lining 5 and oldstyle 2, 3, and 5. Outside
    of the serifs, I think the drawing of all the figures (with exception of the lining
    5) is very strong. (Lining 1 looks too tall but that may be rasterization.)\r\n\r\nQuestion
    mark should be rethought. \r\n\r\nI agree that /x/ is even stranger now that v
    and w terminals have been normalized (which needed to be done). \r\n\r\n/g/ gets
    too pinched in three places: (1) where the top bowl comes up on the right near
    the ear, (2) where the notch remains at the lower right, and (3) at the attaching
    spot in the middle. (I think (1) and (2) are the \"notches\" you just said you're
    thinking of removing.)\r\n\r\nIs /u/ a touch too wide?\r\n\r\nThe new /y/ treatment
    is surprising, and I think I agree with the others, ingenious! You may have to
    rename the font to something with a /y/ in it! :-)\r\n\r\nOptically, to my eye
    neither /X/ nor /x/ looks like a true intersection but I think they work well
    nevertheless.\r\n\r\nYes, I'll be interested to see (at text sizes) if those EFL
    changes will require an adjustment of the angle of the serifs on the other side
    of the stems."
  created: '2010-01-02 07:22:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, I think I disagree about the t. Whilst it is an unrepeated feature,
    to my eye the square cut harmonises really well with the other baseline serifs,
    especially with the lc r and s. I think it also balances nicely with the angularity
    on the head of t. I'd say perhaps the foot could be slightly wider and perhaps
    darker too though. I also think I don't want to add too much interest to the baseline,
    and the trumpet-snout terminal (as Nina christened it) would bee too much. \r\n\r\nOne
    of my original premises was to add interest and emphasis only to the areas of
    glyphs away from the baseline. Since there's always a lot of activity at the baseline
    I figured the eye might find it easier to read if the less frequent parts were
    emphasised. Hence the flared ascenders and the weird g, j and y descenders.\r\n\r\nAm
    fine-tuning the numerals and will look at that g: is it the left-pointing curve
    at the base that's too dark? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 14:21:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good point about the \"t\".\r\n\r\nThe \"g\": looking at your second PDF
    up top, I'd say that the contrast is good, but the bottom bowl is too dark all
    the way from the end of the bar to the tip.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 16:20:59'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Numerals-II_6427.gif]\r\nWell well. I
    think the numerals are just about there. It's been pretty intense work getting
    them to sing together. I think they took longer than the 26 uppercase letters!
    Somehow the lining numerals wanted more serifs, to look more 'Roman' somehow,
    but I took some of them off for the oldstyle ones.\r\n\r\nPlease see the new pdf
    up top and let me know your comments. "
  created: '2010-01-02 22:10:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Drawing of five still not there IMO. It looks to me like the bottom half
    has been rotated ~5 degrees CCW, and the top half skewed about the same amount
    in the other direction.\r\n\r\nThe eights look a little doughy compared to the
    solidity of the other figures. Maybe the bottom 1/4 of it could somehow be firmed
    up?\r\n\r\nIs is possible that lining zero is a touch too heavy in the upper right
    and lower left quadrants?\r\n\r\nI really do love that lining seven with the serif!\r\n\r\nSomething
    I really admire about what you've done here is capture the style I associate with
    oldstyle figs in those figures, and the style of lining figs in those (after all,
    there's more of a difference than simply presence or absence of extenders), while
    keeping the two sets stylistically uniform as a font. Really nice work."
  created: '2010-01-19 20:41:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Craig, thanks. That's really nice to hear. When I was working on these I realised
    that the two sets could be 'emancipated' (as Nina would say I think), so the lining
    ones have more in common with the uppercase and the oldstyle ones share characteristics
    with the lowercase. Hence the lining ones have slightly more vertical stress as
    well as more serifs. I'm really pleased you think this has been successful, except
    for a minor tweak to a couple of glyphs. You're right about the 5. (The lining
    one, yes?) That's going to be hard to get right, but coming back to look at it
    now, looks like it needs widening and the stress rotated like you say.
  created: '2010-01-19 22:59:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, the lining 5. \r\n\r\nThanks for that LF:caps::OSF:lowercase explanation
    - total light bulb over my head!"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:07:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yeah, it was like that for me too. The lining ones are also slightly darker.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder, would a case feature switch oldstyle to lining?"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:27:59'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "That uppercase 5: traditionally the serif on top right is facing up. \r\n\r\nIn
    fact I would just lose it, and copy the top of the lowercase."
  created: '2010-01-19 23:33:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I tried flipping the serif but that didn't suit the font at all.\r\n\r\nI
    might try removing it but I'd like to get it to work since the uppercase alphabet
    is pretty serify. I'll twiddle a few dials and see what happens."
  created: '2010-01-19 23:43:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Is a tilde allowed to do this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ntilde_4560.gif]\r\nI
    haven't found examples where the terminals are heavy."
  created: '2010-01-28 23:00:45'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: That would be a guestion for the Spanish-speaking. For me that is just fine,
    if you just get it balanced; right now it seems to try to take flight. Lower the
    right side a little.
  created: '2010-01-28 23:04:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Allowed, shmallowed.\r\nI like it (although the thin parts should be thinner).\r\nYou
    could also try a gradual thinning from the tips to\r\nthe center instead of a
    solid-medium-thickness middle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 23:05:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "New pdf up top. \r\n\r\n/g/ has the notches taken out. I may need to make
    the top of the loop squarer/sharper/heavier?\r\nE and F have crossbars with heavy
    side on the right.\r\nQ has a longer tail. Too silly?\r\n/x/ probably needs changing.
    X needs more weight?\r\nLining 4 may need a higher crossbar?\r\nLining 5 tweaked:
    are the proportions better?\r\nI can't figure out how to make the bottom of 8
    more defined.\r\nEszett looks rubbish.\r\nHow are questionmark and capital J?\r\nThere's
    some tapering on the octothorp, slashes, percent and phantom dollar sign. I like
    it a lot but is it too bizarre?\r\nAre the brackets still too dark?"
  created: '2010-01-29 00:01:18'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I've had interest in this design from a new magazine that's starting up, so
    getting back to speed with it. :D Feel free to critique harshly! (I'm thinking
    spacing and kerning might go to IKern to do.)
  created: '2010-01-29 00:03:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Exciting to hear, Ben!\r\nThe number sign looks big and splayed out to my
    eye. \r\nI think the hood of /f/ gets spotty - I'd shave of some weight.\r\nI
    think question mark looks great. /J/ I still don't love, but I'm not sure what
    to advise on it.\r\nYes, /\xDF/ isn't there yet.\r\nDid you try an upright implied
    stroke for the /$/?\r\nI think the upper bowl of /g/ may need just the tiniest
    bit more contrast.\r\nI think /Q/'s tail is fine as is."
  created: '2010-01-29 00:40:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well, the magazine went all quiet after I told them there were no italics
    or bold weights! Still, been working on spacing and refined some of the shapes.
    Ascenders are a few units taller, crossbars are now at x-height, e is not leaning
    backwards, x is revised, head serifs on VWXY are now sloped like the H.\r\n\r\nLet
    me know any thoughts. :)"
  created: '2010-03-27 22:01:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Bendy,\r\n\r\nanswering your question about tilde (as it's also very common
    in Portuguese, in /\xE3/ and /\xF5/): large terminals are possible, although very
    unusual. If it works in conjunction with general design style, there is no problem.\r\n\r\nI
    like Mixteca design very much. But I think the terminals in 2, 3 and 5 closes
    very much the counterspace. Oldstyle 5, for example, reads better (to me) because
    it has an open curve.\r\n\r\nI love that /f/, but the /y/ terminal seems strange.
    Sure, it is part of Mixteca personality, but it could be interesting to include
    an alternate /y/."
  created: '2010-03-28 02:10:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "And some ideas for the italic:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4486167773_0842d37c82_o_6321.gif]\r\n<A
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ohbendy/sets/72157623642838769/\">More on
    Flickr.</a>"
  created: '2010-04-05 13:58:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Hmm, that's very minute contrast with the roman. Mixed text settings would
    help judge, but I fear it's too minute. Maybe your fear of "softness" has dominated
    too much?
  created: '2010-04-05 14:54:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I was secretly hoping for an Italic like this y'know :-)&nbsp;&nbsp;Really
    nice work! \r\nI agree with Craig that it would be good to see it in context to
    see how it differentiates from the Roman \u2013 I also wonder if the contrast
    might be a bit too subtle (maybe it'll have to be a little bit lighter, or narrower,
    or something); but I personally find many Italics too un-subtle, there's certainly
    room on this side of the uh, subtility axis. (Not very eloquent today, sorry,
    but I hope you catch my drift.)\r\n\r\nSome comments, to be taken with usual salt!:\r\n\r\nMy
    first reaction (after the \xABwow, nice\xBB) was to wonder if that \"f\" descender
    curl isn't indeed a bit much. Dunno, have you tried a straight descender (without
    a terminal)? Might nicely connect to the \"y\".\r\n\r\nWhy no foot serif on the
    \"r\"? I can see it follows the \xABstroke pattern\xBB of things like the \"n\",
    but I'm not sure, does it look a little naked?\r\n\r\nThe \"g\" seems uncomfortably
    slanted somehow.\r\n\r\nIs the nose of the \"e\" a little too high up, or the
    counter too open? It almost seems backslanted. But maybe it's just me.\r\n\r\nI
    really like the \"k\"! Especially that cheeky leg.\r\n\r\nWhat a wonderful font.
    Please keep it up :)"
  created: '2010-04-05 15:14:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "High-contrast italics is so 20th Century.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 15:36:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "That's quote of the week, Hrant ;)\r\n\r\n>Maybe your fear of \"softness\"
    has dominated too much?\r\n\r\nPerhaps; I find italics can lack rigour and get
    too flowy or flabby. I guess I was subconsciously finding Nina's experiments with
    minimally slanted Italics quite inspiring. Once I've done the full set of alphabetics
    I'll post something so we can see the contrast. I hadn't considered narrower,
    but maybe there's room for that. I wonder also if the foot serifs could have a
    higher flick. Or maybe this is a font where there could be a choice of italics.\r\n\r\nI've
    already fixed the f and g, but posted the old image by accident. I narrowed the
    s slightly too. With the r, it looked really weird with a foot serif. And I think
    it helps distinguish from the roman. I'm glad you like the kick-ass k! Ping!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fangs_6073.png]"
  created: '2010-04-05 16:14:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Been working on the thin and bold weights. The bold might need to be a bit
    bolder to contrast properly with the Medium, but there will probably be a regular
    too, which would fit with this bold. Sorry, no pdf as this is quite preliminary
    for now...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hamburgefonts_6405.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-01 18:45:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Interesting what happens to the top of /i/ in the bold. I wonder if you might
    consider clipping that corner in the medium, too.\r\n\r\nBottom serif of light
    /i/ is surprising - did it just look too topply with a more even serif? It looks
    a little odd to me as is, but then the extra white space of having a /v/ come
    after might be coloring my read on it.\r\n\r\nLight /g/ ear seems too long. \r\n\r\nDid
    you toy with doing something at the top right terminal of /r/ (and maybe /f/)
    in the light weight?\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking it's the sturdiness of the font
    that's one of its most appealing characteristics, so the light version is much
    less interesting to me."
  created: '2010-05-01 19:18:21'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for spotting that error on the i! The bottom serifs should of course
    be the same as on the n. I'm not yet sure what's going to happen about the top
    of the i. The extra overshoot for the bold made that corner rather too high, same
    with the b. Something to resolve at a later stage I think.\r\n\r\nIt hadn't struck
    me to do anything with the thin r and f terminals. I might have a play with those,
    thanks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-01 20:19:20'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: I know this isn't the most helpful comment, but I would definitely use this
    typeface and I could see it right at home in a magazine. Great job Bendy.
  created: '2010-05-16 07:09:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Andrew/AJ, that's very encouraging. Here's a new pic, and I think
    I've retitled this 'Feldspar'.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Feldspar
    copy_5781.png]\r\n\r\nThe sturdiness of this typeface seemed to require a nice
    crusty title, and Feldspar has a nice word-image.\r\n\r\nThe regular is feeling
    much more finished now. Spacing I think is looking good, though I may need one
    more iteration on the cap spacing. Kerning still requires some work, then I'll
    have a proper look at all the accented and non-alphabetic characters. Funnily
    enough, the word space seems a tad wide.\r\n\r\nFollowing Nina's suggestion, I
    condensed the italic some more, to give a tiny bit more contrast with the upright.
    The curves on the italic D are proving rather complicated!\r\n\r\nBold \u2014
    curves need quite some tidying up, especially the uppercase, which also need to
    be condensed just a few units.\r\n\r\nThin \u2014 the toughest to draw. I'm happy
    with the overall design but the curves are still quite bumpy and inconsistent
    (the e is troublesome). This will take some work.\r\n\r\nI think both the thin
    and bold need wider sidebearings than the roman, the spacing here looks quite
    tight. "
  created: '2010-05-16 13:15:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is looking very nice.\r\n\r\nHave you set text blocks with mixed italic
    and roman? In the sample above it looks to me like the italic is noticeably lighter
    than the roman.\r\nArm of italic /r/ isn't convincing me yet.\r\nThe right stroke
    of italic /h/ and /n/ seems in a hurry to snap into parallel with the left stroke.
    If you want to soften the italic a bit that would be a place to do it, though
    maybe you don't. (Is that \"wooden,\" or \"sturdy\"?)\r\n\r\nOn the light, I know
    Nick Shinn as talked about making a light by tracing the strokes with single lines
    and then expanding the stroke - basically, working with the strokes as lines rather
    than outlines. Did you do anything like that when developing your light?\r\n\r\nNew
    name is fitting, I think!"
  created: '2010-05-16 17:00:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Craig,\r\n\r\nYes, I think the italic does look lighter, which is
    funny because the stems are the same weight as the regular. Italics are usually
    a bit lighter, aren't they? Do you think it needs to be heavier? No, I haven't
    yet set any text with roman and italic together; I havent' finished drawing the
    italic caps yet...soon!\r\n\r\nRe the r, I suppose you want more weight on the
    beak? Once I've got some text samples printed it'll be easier to judge I think.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern_6486.jpg]\r\n\r\n>If
    you want to soften the italic a bit\r\nHa, hmm...\r\n\r\nAnd the thin has been
    drawn as outlines, though I can see the logic of doing it as strokes too. I'll
    give it a go with the remaining glyphs and see what transpires. Good suggestion."
  created: '2010-05-16 17:18:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I think the reason the italic looks lighter is that a lot of the serifs are
    missing, so there''s more white space. '
  created: '2010-05-16 19:27:20'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Bendy, it's going really well. Feldspar has a lovely feeling. Do you plan
    to have just the regular italic?\r\n\r\nStems in diagonal appear to be lighter
    than those in 0/90\xBA. A simple test could be done with plus and multiply signs.
    This explains the effect Eliason saw in your italic. But you're right about the
    serifs, they also influence this.\r\n\r\n(Side note: I updated the alternate /g/
    of palimpsest, please take a look).\r\n\r\nAnd what about Melia? Any new development?
    I'd love to see it released."
  created: '2010-05-16 20:07:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Re the r, I suppose you want more weight on the beak</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    but not only that. It branches from high on the stem, which may suit Feldspar
    generally but doesn't feel very italic to me. And I think my eye sees it as a
    little wimpy that the arm on the right doesn't go up anywhere near the height
    of the top of the stem on the left. The effect of all of this is more like a crossbar
    intersection than a branching arm. Does that make sense?"
  created: '2010-05-16 21:54:43'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Yes, I think, because of the angle it comes out of the stem, the r feels
    like it doesn't quite match the arched letters.\r\n\r\nAside from that, maybe
    the eye of the e is slightly large. It might be just me. Though it feels just
    a tad lighter than other letters."
  created: '2010-05-16 22:53:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "First test of inline italics!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Italics_5095.png]\r\nI've
    reduced the eye of e. The lowercase r remains the same design (although thanks
    Craig I've corrected the height of the arm). I'm quite attached to the shape with
    the way it echoes the foot of the t. I wonder if anyone else has an opinion about
    the italic being too rigid? Or not italic enough?"
  created: '2010-05-26 20:03:03'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I would call it \u201Csubtle\u201D."
  created: '2010-05-26 21:07:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: New pdf up top, showing thin and bold weights.
  created: '2010-05-26 23:41:54'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "This is looking really nice. You've done a great job of translating the character
    and keeping things consistent through the weights. Just a few quick thoughts (feel
    free to ignore):\r\n\r\nThe jump from Regular to Thin seems a bit too much, but
    I'm guessing you're going to add a few more weights in between?\r\n\r\nThe bottom
    of the Thin 'p' in the right column seems a little too thin. It looks like you've
    fixed it on the left column though.\r\n\r\nThe italic doesn't seem to contrast
    enough when set with the upright. Perhaps it could be slanted a tiny bit more.\r\n\r\nI
    like the rigidity of the italic, but maybe that is also adding to the lack of
    contrast.\r\n\r\nJust curious why you went for the single story 'a', but kept
    the double story 'g' in the italic?"
  created: '2010-05-27 10:04:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Travis, it's really encouraging when people say they like this :)\r\n\r\nYes,
    I think there will be a couple of weights between the thin and regular, then probably
    one between the regular and bold, then we'll see about a black or something.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know what happened with the thin p and q. They look fine in FL but when
    setting type in ID, the lower curve stops at the baseline. I wonder if it's something
    wrong with the metrics or alignment zones. It fixes itself when converting to
    outlines, so it's very strange.\r\n\r\nItalic, as others have said, might need
    a little something. I'm starting to see the problem. Not sure why the a and g
    structures ended up like that, perhaps I'll try a cursive g, or add it as an alt."
  created: '2010-05-27 13:03:35'
- author:
    name: deleted
  body: 'nothing to add but its looking very good so far bendy. nice work '
  created: '2010-06-01 15:24:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Just added a new pdf up top, including some regular and italic set in running
    text. In the italic, the widths are substantially narrower (especially bowl and
    stick letters). Crossbars of /f/ and /t/ and the foot of /t/ are more defined,
    /e/ and /g/ have been tweaked, arched letters branch slightly lower (higher in
    the /u/), /q/ has a foot serif, /s/ has a steeper spine, /w/ has a quasi-serif
    at its central apex, and /y/ and /z/ include faint curves.\r\n\r\nI'd be interested
    to hear if you think this tweaked italic contrasts a bit better with the roman. "
  created: '2010-11-27 15:26:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool to see this again!! I love this face. \r\nSome comments, please by all
    means add salt:\r\n\r\nIn the Italic, I'm not sure you had to go this far with
    the narrowing? It's *definitely* distinct enough now \u2013 I would actually try
    pulling the narrowing back a little. Squinting at it, it also looks visibly darker
    than the Roman to me now\u2026 but maybe that's my printer.\r\n\r\nSome other
    stuff (in the Italic):\r\n\u2013 To my eye the \"n\" looks potentially a hint
    too wide compared to the bowl-and-stick letters. And the \"u\" seems quite visibly
    narrower than the \"n\" too.\r\n\u2013 Out of curiosity: Have you tried a different
    bottom to the \"t\" in the Italic \u2013 maybe something that \xABsnaps back up\xBB
    more? Not at all sure that'd work though. Generally, I would want to make the
    crossbar more prominent than the foot (which is darker now), but I must say I
    don't really understand what matters in a \"t\".\r\n\u2013 Your Italic \"e\" still
    feels potentially too soft and narrow and \xABopen\xBB (but maybe that's really
    just me).\r\n\u2013 Those serifs on the \"v\", \"w\", \"y\" look quite cool I
    think, but they might be giving you spacing problems? Like in \"they\" for example\u2026
    You might also consider making the left-hand \\ stroke of these letters steeper
    maybe (and/or making them narrower).\r\n\r\nBTW: Looking at p. 1 and 2 of the
    newest PDF, all this really looks to me like it would be happier set a point or
    two smaller\u2026 but then it might have to be looser."
  created: '2010-11-27 16:20:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks a lot Nina, you're right about the /n/, I'll take a few units off
    the width.\r\nWith the /t/ do you mean something like this for the foot?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italict_4185.gif]\r\nThe
    /e/ keeps tricking me. I think you're right about too soft and narrow and open,
    but I can't reconcile those three things yet.\r\nI'll set another pdf at 8pt and
    9pt for you."
  created: '2010-11-27 16:56:26'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I've had another go at the /e/, left is original, right is 'improved', as
    it were:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Italices_6693.gif] I've brought the
    terminal up and made the tail heavier, as well as widening the eye slightly and
    moving the crossbar down and less curved.
  created: '2010-11-27 17:54:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I actually think that bottom of /t/ is working (though I agree that the crossbar
    is relatively too slight).\r\nI do think this looks a bit <em>too</em> \"sturdy\"
    at this size (and probably will need more space at a more fitting, smaller size).\r\nI
    think the contrast of italic and roman is working well now.\r\nAre your smallcaps
    too big?"
  created: '2010-11-27 21:39:49'
date: '2009-12-17 00:47:30'
title: Feldspar (Nee Mixteca)

---
