---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "fun / sad - you be the judge...\r\n\r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/5430268/i-spent-300-million-on-this-movie-and-all-i-got-were-these-lousy-papyrus-subtitles"
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "I think that the post by  Coolmodo [01:29 PM, gizmodo.com] is the right answer:
    \r\n \r\nwho cares? :)  \r\n\r\n\"One question, who cares what font they used
    for the subtitles? It was readable and the archaic font fit to the setting.\r\n\r\nAm
    I the only one who thinks debating a subtitle font is extremely retarded?\"\t"
  created: '2009-12-19 19:55:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Come on David, have some fun in your life, join the debate over subtitle
    fonts, it has to make you feel more warm and fuzzy than the discussion of Tiger's
    \"transgressions\". ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-19 20:35:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "At least they didn't use the original logo font for this remake...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smurflogo_4669.gif]"
  created: '2009-12-19 21:01:35'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Talk about typographical consistency:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/64015"
  created: '2009-12-19 21:04:19'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Come on David, have some fun in your life, join the debate over subtitle
    fonts....\r\n\r\nOK Chris :) What's the debate about? :) $300M vs. subtitle? "
  created: '2009-12-19 21:50:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They spent I think $100K having a custom language made,\r\nthey couldn't
    spend $100 to pay somebody to buy a good font?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-19 22:38:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Apparently, from another thread linked here, they did spend money to have
    someone do custom modifications to Papyrus. Which, I would think, compounds the
    sin of bad taste.\r\n\r\nBut it confirms something I've noted in another thread.
    Papyrus, unlike many a simulation font, gently suggests a \"non-Western\" culture
    without doing so in a blatant way that could be interpreted as patronizing or
    offensive or derogatory. Thus, we should forgive those who overuse it, for they
    live in terror of the Political Correctness Police.\r\n\r\nGiven the plot, and
    hence the \"message\", of the film Avatar, the font Papyrus is <strong>all too
    appropriate</strong> for the film's subtitles."
  created: '2009-12-19 23:45:06'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nThere is no doubt about the important role of good typography
    & type. And there's no doubt about the influence  of the movie industry -- see
    how many requests are made to ID a font when there's a new release. But  sometimes
    we need to remember the importance of hierarchy... :) \r\n\r\n\r\nI think that
    was the article/blog in the New York Times about mistakes in typography that quoted
    Matthew Carter saying that it's hard for him to see in a period movie the wrong
    font, while the costumes or architecture is right. I think he's wrong, or not
    100% right.\r\nLet's assume that I want to have a period movie, and the year is
    1960.\r\n I'm using the font Standard. Now, I have a problem, no? The font was
    issued by Intertype in 1960, and by Berthold in 1896; additional styles were added
    in the 1970s. \r\nSo, my choice is wrong? right? \r\n\r\nThe same thing with the
    font Normande -- issued in 1875 & 1931. But what if I want to pick Roman Extra
    Bold (Bauer 1850) --  my choice is wrong? right? \r\n\r\n\r\nWhy not apply that
    to books? If I read a book by Paul Auster -- Moon Palace, and the main character,
    Marco Fogg, in the first page goes back to the 1960's --- why not  set that part
    in a font that was designed in the 1960s, to help us set the mood of the 1960s?\r\nThe
    novel was published in 1989 -- so does the book designer need to pick a font  that
    was designed in 1989?\r\n\r\n\r\np.s.\r\nAnd there is no doubt about the important
    role of.... fun  :)  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-20 06:29:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Unrelated to the new Smurf movie, but in the lines of film typography, I
    just saw \"It Might Get Loud\" and found the title treatments used throughout
    the film the best part of it.\r\n\r\nAs for Papyrus, had this been a 2 million
    dollar indie flick by a first time film maker, when, yea, who cares? But when
    it's one of the most expensive films ever made, you'd think there'd be a level
    of detail scrutiny. Just look at IMDB's thorough 'errors' listing for every film.
    There are obviously a lot of people that do care about the details. \r\n\r\nSo,
    for those of you that have seen it, does Papyrus work better in 3-D?"
  created: '2009-12-21 15:19:42'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "Everyone who is up in arms about a decision to use Papyrus is wrong.\r\n\r\nHere's
    why: just because a font is overused outside of Avatar does not mean said font
    is not right for the application. Helvetica is the most overused typeface in the
    universe and nobody bitches when someone uses it.\r\n\r\nBut because Papyrus carries
    a stigma with it amongst the design community, it's immediately the worst possible
    choice? I call bullshit."
  created: '2009-12-22 17:31:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Helvetica is the most overused typeface in the universe and nobody bitches
    when someone uses it.\"\r\n\r\nOh yes they do!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.zazzle.com/ill_use_arial_when_helvetica_freezes_over_tshirt-235289429760044958\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-22 17:34:25'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "OK, syntax error on my part. LESS people bitch about Helvetica than Papyrus
    :-P\r\n\r\nMy point is that people who immediately go for the gut reaction of
    decrying the use of a typeface are being silly. Could they have chosen a less
    prolific typeface than Papyrus? Sure. But does Papyrus work for the feel they
    are going for? Absolutely."
  created: '2009-12-22 17:39:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Herculanum would have been a much better choice.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/528/herculanum-family.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-22 17:57:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I've not see the movie. But if they're going for the spa look then it's indeed
    the right choice, although these folks might not agree... http://www.avatarspa.net/
  created: '2009-12-22 18:09:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-22 18:22:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">OK, syntax error on my part. LESS people bitch about Helvetica than Papyrus
    \r\n\r\nUm, if you are correcting syntax errors that would be FEWER people :)
    \ "
  created: '2009-12-22 18:24:32'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Quite an interesting read:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.girvin.com/blog/?p=3570\r\n_____________________________________________\r\nPersonal
    Art and Design Portal of Ivan Gulkov\r\nwww.ivangdesign.com"
  created: '2009-12-22 18:49:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think that Herculanum is a font whose design obviously and immediately
    calls the Roman Empire to mind. The intent for the movie Avatar would be to have
    a font that is \"exotic\", and yet which does not link to any specific nation
    or culture on Earth. Since the movie is about aliens who are in harmony with nature,
    fonts associated with little green men in flying saucers are also out.\r\n\r\nPapyrus
    is a choice that fills the bill here - not perfectly, but reasonably well. Mistral,
    Calypso, or Hobo wouldn't do.\r\n\r\nEreshkigal (from Scriptorium) would work,
    but that seems very similar to Papyrus. Searching through different fonts \"similar\"
    to Papyrus otherwise didn't suggest much in the way of alternatives.\r\n\r\nLooking
    harder, I've found a few.\r\n\r\nFidelma, from Patricia Lillie, is a possibility.
    So is Fable, from Scholtz Fonts. Even Serena, from Canada Type, although it looks
    a bit too much like a conventional script.\r\n\r\nBlandford Woodland NF from Nick's
    Fonts is different enough from Albertus that it, too, might be considered as a
    way to get away from Papyrus. Then there's Galahad from Adobe."
  created: '2009-12-22 22:41:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Looking harder, I\u2019ve found a few.\r\n\r\nI predict re-subtitling Avatar
    will be to 2010 what re-subtitling that Hitler show was to 2008. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 03:25:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm hardly a huge fan of Papyrus (though I don't hate it overly, either),
    but I thought it was quite apropos here. Interesting to hear that it was customized
    in some way... I thought it looked different somehow, though in briefly-appearing
    titles I had (and still have) no idea in what particular way.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-23 03:31:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Interesting to hear that it was customized in some way</em>\r\nI could
    be wrong but I thought the talk of customization was just about the title (the
    purpose being primarily to make sure all those A's didn't look identical)."
  created: '2009-12-23 06:21:18'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: I also agree that Papyrus actually worked reasonably well in the context of
    the movie, though a custom or less-used option would have been welcome. The 3-D
    effect meant that it seemed to float above the background, in between the front-most
    and back-most elements. My main complaint is that Papyrus is a pretty thin typeface,
    which made it a bit more difficult to read than I would like. Something bolder/with
    less contrast would have been welcome.
  created: '2009-12-23 06:25:08'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "<cite>I think Herculanum would have been a much better choice.</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that the typeface used by the <i>Avatar</i> on Nickelodeon?\r\n\r\nst"
  created: '2009-12-23 06:31:03'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "just saw the movie a few hours ago:\r\n\r\n1. No, papyrus is not improved
    by 3-D glasses (or extra dobs of a grunge texture brush)\r\n\r\n2. If I was the
    DoP or FX supervisor on this film, I'd be extremely proud of the entire endeavor,
    but absolutely mortified by the logotype that represents it. \r\n\r\n3. The film's
    visual creativity is bold and captivating \u2014(I'm not fanboy and happen to
    think the story plucks a typical refrain; \"White guy gets accepted by closed
    society of natives and becomes their most awesomest member\") \u2014but the damn
    Papyrus typeface really reeks even more than usual when overlaid on such gorgeous
    and unique visuals. \r\n\r\n4...or maybe it's like when you put a really frumpy
    woman next to a drop-dead gorgeous one\u2014the frumpy one seems even less attractive,
    yes (like papyrus)  \u2014but maybe, at the same time, the already gorgeous one
    is improved even more by the comparison. (Hmmm...maybe the visuals weren't all
    that stunning after all...?)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 06:34:49'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\">OK, syntax error on my part. LESS people bitch about Helvetica than Papyrus\r\nUm,
    if you are correcting syntax errors that would be FEWER people :)\"\r\n\r\nAh,
    noted. Sometimes I get ahead of myself!\r\n\r\n\"I think Herculanum would have
    been a much better choice.\"\r\n\r\nYou are of course entitled to your wrong opinion.\r\n\r\nThat
    might sound snarky and arrogant, but it's true because you are not James Cameron,
    nor were you on his production team.\r\n\r\nAgain, my point is that we, as typography
    and/or design nuts, get frenzied every time someone uses a typeface we've been
    taught is taboo. And sure, taste is purely subjective. For instance, going back
    to Helvetica, I personally would rather use a different grotesque in it's place.
    But that's my personal taste, and I don't expect everyone to agree with me. Ultimately
    it's up to the decision of each and every designer out there as to what typefaces
    we use. And in this case there were a number of them that would have fit the bill.
    Obviously James Cameron, or whomever on his team calls the shots on type, decided
    Papyrus was just what they were looking for.\r\n\r\nI'd say a comment like \"this
    typeface would have been a better choice\" is a presumptuous thing to say when
    it comes to personal taste. Which is not to say that people can't oppose an opinion.
    Rather, it just comes off as saying \"According to my infallible opinion this
    person chose the wrong typeface.\" Weren't we taught to be more constructive in
    design school? Not to sound like a broken record, but this is personal taste we're
    discussing, not mathematical law."
  created: '2009-12-23 06:43:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Personal taste\" is indeed a factor, but it most certainly isn't the only
    one,\r\nand most of all is not the interesting and relevant aspect of this discussion.\r\n\r\n>
    Obviously James Cameron, or whomever on his team calls the shots\r\n> on type,
    decided Papyrus was just what they were looking for.\r\n\r\nYeah, like the guy
    who decided Comic Sans is a good choice for that funeral wreath. If somebody chooses
    one font over others with intent, that's great; but if somebody chooses a font
    because he's too ignorant and/or lazy concerning typographic quality, then hopefully
    he will pay attention to people who aren't and learn from his mistake.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 06:56:41'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: ">If somebody chooses one font over others with intent, that\u2019s great;
    but if somebody chooses a font because he\u2019s too ignorant and/or lazy concerning
    typographic quality, then hopefully he will pay attention to people who aren\u2019t
    and learn from his mistake.\r\n\r\nProve to us that he was being ignorant and/or
    lazy and I'll give you a cookie.\r\n\r\nI'll agree that personal taste is a very
    small factor in this discussion. What I am interested in is accountability. You
    are insinuating that Papyrus is a typeface of bad quality. And I'm going to tell
    you again, it's not. Maybe it is overused and abused, but is that the fault of
    the typeface (or it's creator); or is it the fault of the Yoga Studio owner who
    went into Kinkos and had a college kid whip up a logo in 15 minutes? "
  created: '2009-12-23 07:13:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have boxes of cookies. But Proof? Never seen one.\r\n\r\nPapyrus might
    have nothing technically wrong with it*, but that's not enough. The larger your
    budget, the greater the chance that a custom font can do a better job for you
    than an off-the-shelf one. And they had a goddam huge budget. If you're paying
    a USC academic to create a language so that you can have a subtle edge over gibberish**,
    please spend a fraction of that money on something far less subtle in its relevance.\r\n\r\n*
    Although in this case it seems quite likely that it is in fact too light.\r\n\r\n**
    BTW, have you ever seen the Pingu claymation stuff?\r\nIt's all gibberish, but
    nonetheless extremely effective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 07:32:23'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: Papyrus is a font that needs to go into a government program and be cryogenically
    frozen and wake up as a much more powerful, taller, slimmer and elegantly lithe
    and physical font, and fight for the acceptance of other mostly-naked fonts in
    an otherworldy bioluminescent jungle.
  created: '2009-12-23 07:34:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"The larger your budget, the greater the chance that a custom font
    can do a better job for you than an off-the-shelf one.\"</cite>\r\nPlus, of course:
    The more ubiquitous and hated a font, the harder it becomes for somebody with
    a huge budget to use it, and remain credible when they try to assert they have
    all the right reasons to do so. It's just going to make them <em>look</em> cheap
    and incompetent. It's another case of not only the actual intention of the designer
    counting, but how people <em>perceive</em> it. And this might be perceived as
    cheaper than it is, because of the \xABcheap spa\xBB connotations that come with
    the font, automatically.\r\n\r\nPingu (ah, a compatriot!): Hrant, where would
    you draw the line between \xABgibberish\xBB and a made-up language? FWIW there
    are sources out there that classify Pingu's babblings as an imaginary language
    too (here's an <a href=\"http://www.kcl.ac.uk/content/1/c6/03/08/18/Pingu%27s%20Lingo,%20or%20How%20to%20Get%20By%20in%20Penguinese.doc\">interesting
    little essay [although in Word format]</a> by Tony Thorne, linguist at University
    of London, linked to in footnote 1 of the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pingu\">Pingu
    Wikipedia entry</a>)."
  created: '2009-12-23 13:02:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Isn\u2019t that the typeface used by the Avatar on Nickelodeon?\r\n\r\nOh,
    yes, \"The Last Airbender\". Silly me for not getting the joke. That would not
    have been a good choice, it could have created trademark problems!\r\n\r\nWhile,
    in general, it is a <em>bad thing</em> for an overused typeface to be used in
    such a major movie... they did modify the face a bit, <strong>and</strong> the
    reason Papyrus is so overused is that there are virtually no other fonts that
    do what it does. That fact, I think, mitigates things considerably.\r\n\r\nA highly
    authentic rendering of a Roman uncial would not have been what they needed, because
    the movie isn't about ancient Rome or even the Byzantine Empire."
  created: '2009-12-23 14:01:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, thanks for the Pingu links! I'll read the Thorne essay, but I guess
    to me gibberish can't be deciphered (fully) while an invented language is built
    from the ground up with a vocabulary, formal grammar, etc. Of course nothing is
    pure: the dialog in Pingu <em>can</em> be understood* on an instinctive level,
    and every real language has fuzziness.\r\n\r\n* Just don't try to express any
    Jungian concepts with it.  :-)\r\n\r\n> there are virtually no other fonts that
    do what [Papyrus] does.\r\n\r\nIf that's true: exactly, custom font!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 15:49:03'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\u201CThe more ubiquitous and hated a font, the harder it becomes for somebody
    with a huge budget to use it, and remain credible when they try to assert they
    have all the right reasons to do so.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat percentage of the population
    who sees Avatar is well-versed in type? Certainly not a high number, I'm sure.
    Furthermore, what percentage will feel that we were typographically cheated? Probably
    a smaller percentage.\r\n\r\nNow, the concept of creating a custom font is different
    than the concept of \"this is the wrong typeface\". I'll agree that if they are
    going to go that far into a concept, to have a linguist create a language for
    them, then why not a custom font too? But mostly I'm playing devil's advocate
    here. I suspect if they had gone around and taken a survey that asked \"Should
    we use the font Papyrus\" most people would have said \"Hell if I care.\" Maybe
    that's not the ideal response, and maybe a custom typography solution would have
    made it more perfect, but there is something about having something familiar up
    there. People are already acquainted with Papyrus whether they know it or not.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 16:50:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is, the main power of typography is in its subliminal effects.
    Asking laymen to say what they think about it is generally highly misleading.
    In fact asking people about the custom language might give similar misleading
    feedback. Except that's been on the news :-/ while the type issue has not.\r\n\r\n>
    there is something about having something familiar up there.\r\n\r\nThis isn't
    exactly Little House On The Prairie.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 17:18:32'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\"This isn\u2019t exactly Little House On The Prairie.\"\r\n\r\nI said familiar,
    not kitschy :-P"
  created: '2009-12-23 17:33:39'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "The first time I saw Avatar's logoform, I just thought it was another in
    a line of low-budget sci-fi flicks, like Serenity. It always bothered me that
    the only sci-fi movie that could have possibly had any justification whatsoever
    to consider using a typeface meant to recall ancient Egypt, didn't. (What ever
    happened to James Spader, anyway?)\r\n\r\nIf there's such thing as a default typeface
    of the self-actuated, individualized masses, Papyrus is probably it. And what
    other face communicates so clearly and succinctly, \"I'm a unique and beautiful
    snowflake\" in a way that is so exactly like everyone else.\r\n\r\nLocal small
    business spas / office party memos / yoga centers / psychedelic bumper-stickers
    / asian mall restaurants / 99c inspirational calendars / garden shops / bric-a-braks
    / therapeutic candles / organic food packaging / halloween junk / pseudo-archeology
    bible books / scrapbooking supplies / aspiring wedding photographer websites /
    etc...\r\n\r\n...I see Papyrus, and I can't help but think, \"another doomed,
    ill-conceived small business, a 'for lease' sign will be hanging here inside of
    two years.\"\r\n\r\nI wonder if this small business will last two weeks or twenty
    years? \r\n\r\n[[http://www.papyruswatch.com/2009/10/hand-jobcmon.html|Hand Job
    SPA]]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 17:51:51'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Well, here's one layman who's really angry. :-)\r\n(Warning: Much profanity.
    But the link works)\r\n<a href=\"http://tinyurl.com/ycsua9g\">http://namedropacid.com/2009/12/i-fucking-hate-the-papyrus-font/</a>\r\n\r\nSeriously
    though, like the others have said, while most people might not consciously know
    \xABthe Papyrus font\xBB, of course I'd expect it to subliminally remind them
    of the cheap nail salon on the corner\u2026 everybody's seen it a million times,
    it oozes into our consciousness, it recalls certain things, if not necessarily
    consciously."
  created: '2009-12-23 18:24:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> I wonder if this small business will last two weeks or twenty years?\r\n\r\nAt
    least it is a manicurist's, and not a massage parlor.\r\n\r\nBut they missed an
    opportunity; the banner below, saying \"Grand Opening\", could have been in Hobo
    instead of just an ordinary sans-serif font.\r\n\r\nI just made a Hobo sighting
    yesterday: it was on an 8 1/2\" by 11\" sign, printed in color on an inkjet or
    laser printer, in my local game store that specializes in Magic: the Gathering
    cards. That sign had been there for months, but I hadn't paid attention to the
    font until now - it was announcing a reduced price on the Monsterpocalypse collectable
    miniatures game figures."
  created: '2009-12-23 18:44:22'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "hahaha.\r\n\r\nI KNEW there would be a discussion on this forum about the
    word \"Avatar\" and its relation to Papyrus.\r\n\r\nWho knew I would get two for
    Christmas?! \r\n\r\nAnd yea who cares, I personally think it would be pretty cool
    to get paid tons of money to make that decision and decide, \"You know what? Papyrus
    will actually work.\" (or rather some offspring of it or what have you).\r\n\r\nOr
    on the contrary, to decide that there's so much money to be spent on the movie
    that the titles could use something cheap--because it worked--is just great.\r\n\r\nI
    find such conclusions rather commendable any way you look at them."
  created: '2009-12-24 01:47:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I personally think it would be pretty cool to get paid\r\n> tons of money
    to make that decision and decide ...\r\n\r\nI'm sorry sir, I think you're looking
    for investmentbankerophile.com...\r\n\r\nBFA. Nuff said.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 01:52:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u201CWhite guy gets accepted by closed society of natives and becomes
    their most awesomest member\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nSo maybe I'll just go watch <em>A
    Man Called Horse</em> again instead."
  created: '2009-12-24 06:14:23'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hey, back off; some people actually like papyrus.\r\n\r\n>   I picked Papyrus
    for its artistic look.\r\n>   http://billhillsblog.blogspot.com/2009/06/ebooks-will-make-more-headway-on.html\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 10:20:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I found the discussion at that URL interesting.\r\n\r\nAs far as Papyrus
    goes, I realize that not using \"overused\" fonts would create more work for type
    designers. But once upon a time, when type designers were real men, and cut punches,
    what you had was roman, italic, blackletter, and maybe an outline slab serif for
    display. There wasn't much time for more, after all, it was also necessary to
    cut Greek, Hebrew, Syriac and Coptic fonts for religious reference works.\r\n\r\nSo
    if Papyrus is the one font for \"generic New Age\" or \"generic non-Western\"
    uses... well, maybe there are other more important purposes for which new faces
    are needed than giving more choices to your neighborhood yoga studio.\r\n\r\nBut
    the debate on that web site: instead of just two choices, PDF documents that behave
    just like paper books, with a fixed layout on the page, and complete control over
    appearance, on the one hand, or generic HTML that flows into whatever display
    size the viewer chooses, but with very limited formatting - why can't we have
    the best of both worlds? Cited as an indication of how this can be achieved is
    a reader application provided by the New York Times.\r\n\r\nCombining flexibiity
    in design with flexibility for the viewer as well - because screen sizes vary
    - is a good thing, even if it seemed hard to achieve at first."
  created: '2009-12-24 17:10:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When I see Papyrus, I think of a mom&pop street vendor selling something
    like Falafel sandwiches, or an aging hippie's health food shop.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-24 17:27:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "you're not saying that like it's a bad thing are you, Chris?\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-25 03:12:26'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Apart from type, could we just say that Avatar was a mediocre movie?
  created: '2009-12-25 03:49:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Russ, for a mom&pop shop, it is fine and expected with their budget and graphic
    skills but it makes the big bucks film look like they hired the street vendor
    to do their titles while they  waited in line for their falafel sandwich.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-25 05:53:15'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Tomi>\r\n\r\nType was okay, Papyrus okay, Helvetica credits sucked.... best
    credits I have every seen were in The Incredibles\r\n\r\nMovie special effects\u2014marvelous,
    one of the prettiest movies I have every seen, if not the most\r\n\r\nPlot\u2014okay,
    not bad, but not as intricate as the scenes of the movie\r\n\r\nThis isn\u2019t
    Shakespeare, this pure fun\r\n\r\nI\u2019m going to see it tomorrow again in IMAX
    3D"
  created: '2009-12-25 10:46:09'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "hrant>\r\n\r\n\"BFA. Nuff said.\"\r\n\r\nThat's exceptionally elitist of
    you. \r\n\r\nIt's always nice to find the ppl who think they know the most...they
    have the easiest skin to make itch.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-26 23:39:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I associate \"who cares what other people think\" with Art. Shoot me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-26 23:49:33'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I care a what other people think. Just not yourself.\r\n\r\nBut considering
    how lame it is to attempt to call someone out for maybe not yet having gone to
    school as long as you, I would lend you any of my guns. Shoot yourself."
  created: '2009-12-27 00:32:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I would lend you any of my guns. Shoot yourself.\"\r\n\r\nThis is highly
    inappropriate behavior for anyone of any level of education. There is enough violence
    done in the world every day that we do not need wish it on someone else.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-27 00:43:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My issue with your BFA was not with the \"B\", but with the \"FA\". Of itself
    a Fine Arts education is certainly not a bad thing (in fact in this context it's
    probably more appropriate in the overall than my own formal education, which was
    in Computer Science*) but <em>combined</em> with what you wrote above to me it's
    pretty damning. A font is not a painting.\r\n\r\n* And only a BS mind you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 00:59:48'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i don't care that much for papyrus\r\n-- my favoritest is comic sans! --\r\nbut
    i was wondering if anyone here\r\ncould explain exactly _why_ it is so\r\npopular
    as signage for mom&pops?\r\n\r\ni mean, you're the guys who claim to\r\nunderstand
    the deep subconsciousness\r\nof fonts, so why do people pick papyrus?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ it's not enough to say \"bad taste\"...\r\ni want an exposition on _why_ it
    is bad...\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 01:03:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I provided a possible suggestion in another thread. I think it's popular
    because it suggests a non-Western flavor, but unlike a \"simulation font\", it
    does not do so in a blatant fashion which could possibly give offense.\r\n\r\nIts
    styling, while appropriate for something to do with Ancient Egypt, is applicable
    in other places, because it isn't solidly grounded in a specific historical reference.
    This is because it is of relatively contemporary origin. Thus, it doesn't suggest
    the phototype fonts of the 1970s, or the foundry types of the 1920s, or some particular
    form of script or blackletter.\r\n\r\nSo it is a natural choice for anything \"exotic\"
    or \"New Age\".\r\n\r\nAs for bad taste, the complaints are mostly not because
    of any fault in the font itself (except for its distressed character) but because
    it is overused."
  created: '2009-12-27 04:19:53'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Well that's funny, cuz I'm not a painter. I've never taken a painting class
    in my life and wouldn't know a thing about it. I have a BFA in Graphic Design.\r\n\r\nFurthermore
    I know some BAs who are more than qualified to talk about type and design. How
    would you explain such a \"phenomenon,\" as it must surely seem to you impossible.\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you again insist upon your own greatness? THAT is the BS.\r\n\r\nPeople are
    allowed to disagree, but the manner in which you would single someone out and
    say, \"HA! That person cannot know a THING. They're a bFA!\"--that's just astounding.
    Shame on you."
  created: '2009-12-27 05:51:16'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: 'Once again: apart from type, could we just say that Avatar is not a great
    movie?'
  created: '2009-12-27 06:01:18'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Well the story line has been seen before. Romeo & Juliet meets Dances With
    Wolves. But such great plot lines couldn't be explored as deeply when Cameron
    was so concerned with creating that world.\r\n\r\nBut I guess your question depends
    on what you wanted to get out of the movie in the first place. If you want the
    effect many old classics do, well sure it's lacking. Then again if you wanted
    to see it to be purely entertained and immersed--I think in that respect it is
    a great movie indeed.\r\n\r\nAnd of course on the Fine Arts side of things, if
    you'll allow it ;)  ...people will come to it with their own experiences. Maybe
    it is a great environmentalist movie. I know I saw people cry, so it mustn't be
    a complete catastrophe."
  created: '2009-12-27 06:30:35'
- author:
    name: TimKim
    picture: 118786
  body: '"Good type should be invisible." That definitely applies in this situation.
    The primary role of subtitles is to be readable. The choice for a papyrus-like
    font is a rather poor one because it is a font that everyone loves to hates and
    takes the stage before reading. '
  created: '2009-12-27 10:34:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: " 99% of people couldn't pick papyrus out in a police line-up. \r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 13:50:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"99% of people couldn\u2019t pick papyrus out in a police line-up.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    does that matter? "
  created: '2009-12-27 13:56:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201C99% of people couldn\u2019t pick papyrus out in a police line-up.\u201D\r\n\r\n\"That's
    him, Officer! Number 2 with the scars and skraggly hair!\"\r\n\r\nBook'm, Danno!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-12-27 15:39:06'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   The choice for a papyrus-like font \r\n>   is a rather poor one because
    it is \r\n>   a font that everyone loves to hates \r\n>   and takes the stage
    before reading.\r\n\r\nlike many experts, you guys seem to be\r\ntalking out of
    both sides of your mouths.\r\n\r\nif papyrus is \"a font that _everyone_ loves
    to hate\",\r\nthen why do people pick papyrus for their signage?\r\nwhy is the
    font \"overused\" if nobody likes it?\r\n\r\ni think it's clear that if you see
    the font used a lot,\r\nit's because people _do_ like it.  the question is \"why?\"\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n>
    \  I think it\u2019s popular because \r\n>   it suggests a non-Western flavor,
    \r\n>   but unlike a \u201Csimulation font\u201D, \r\n>   it does not do so in
    a blatant fashion \r\n>   which could possibly give offense.\r\n\r\ni can buy
    the \"non-western flavor\"\r\n-- although i'm not sure _why_ --\r\nbut most people
    wouldn't have the\r\nslightest idea what a \"simulation font\"\r\nwould even be,
    or why they'd use one,\r\nand i'm sure most people couldn't care\r\nless about
    \"doing so in a blatant fashion\".\r\nand the notion that a font \"could possibly\r\ngive
    offense\" would be downright laughable,\r\nso i don't think that's part of their
    motivation.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 18:46:30'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Chris, In Canada they say \"Taser'm, Dudly.\"\r\n\r\naltaira, It matters
    if one thinks that Papyrus is \"is a rather poor one because it is a font that
    everyone loves to hate\u2026\" as TimKim suggests.  everyone doesn't love to hate
    Papyrus. \r\n\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 21:52:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> but most people wouldn\u2019t have the slightest idea what a \u201Csimulation
    font\u201D would even be, or why they\u2019d use one, and i\u2019m sure most people
    couldn\u2019t care less about \u201Cdoing so in a blatant fashion\u201D. and the
    notion that a font \u201Ccould possibly give offense\u201D would be downright
    laughable,\r\n\r\nI'm sure that even though most people don't know the technical
    term \"simulation font\", they have <em>seen</em> such fonts, and I do think they
    are significantly out of fashion these days due to political correctness.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, it varies. If people are avoiding Ondine and Legende, it's probably more
    because they're worried about bringing thoughts of terrorism to people's minds
    than giving offence. Nor is giving offense a consideration with respect to, Andromache
    or Herculanum, or other fonts that resemble some form of Greek or Roman writing.
    But when it comes to the fonts that make English letters look like written Hebrew,
    or like Chinese characters, yes, people feel that sort of thing is just not done
    any more."
  created: '2009-12-28 00:45:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i think papyrus looks like palm trees,\r\nand that's why people feel it's
    \"exotic\".\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 22:33:51'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "caching, bowerbird \u2026 :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 02:22:32'
date: '2009-12-19 19:26:54'
node_type: forum
title: I Spent $300 Million on This Movie and All I Got Were These Lousy Papyrus Subtitles

---
