---
author:
  name: nettoo
  picture: 113757
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI just found an topic at one torrent's forum while I was seeking
  for any page that contains our fonts and I found an interesting topic where users
  are exchanging between themselves all kind of fonts, and what surprised me the most
  is that there are already some fonts on the \"black market\", released just a couple
  of days ago.\r\n\r\nI know that this is wide spread behavior on the Internet but
  do you have any idea that might be helpful against those bastards? Is contacting
  the admin of this formum/site good idea for the start (I somehow think he's the
  same as his users)? Any legal rule in this case?\r\n\r\nBest"
comments:
- author:
    name: nettoo
    picture: 113757
  body: "Actually, this is the whole one sub-forum:\r\n\r\n[edited by moderator]"
  created: '2009-12-21 17:18:01'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Dusan,\r\nthere\u2019s one thing that certainly won\u2019t help: linking
    to those pirate sites.\r\nF"
  created: '2009-12-21 17:25:42'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'Your best bet is to contact the forum admin, the web hosts, and the third
    party file sharing sites. They are hosting illegal content and/or links to illegal
    content. Sometimes there are options on the file hosting sites that let you flag
    content as illegal. I also try to let other foundries know when their fonts appear
    on some of the sites I track. '
  created: '2009-12-21 17:33:05'
- author:
    name: nettoo
    picture: 113757
  body: Hehe... thanks Florian, I wanted to share "the resource", so others can check
    and be aware of it's existents. And maybe also they find some of their fonts on
    that "the resource".
  created: '2009-12-21 17:51:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Never forget that the handful of people you see posting here \r\nis just
    a small fraction of all the people who access Typophile."
  created: '2009-12-21 18:26:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"do you have any idea that might be helpful against those bastards?\"\r\n\r\nTake
    a deep breath and...ignore them.\r\n\r\nFolks downloading massive amounts of fonts
    from torrent sites aren't likely anywhere close to being a paying customer of
    yours. It's more of a sport for them than any sort of organized attack against
    you. \r\n\r\nYou can certainly try contacting the chain of command (as mentioned)
    but most of these are off-shore servers. "
  created: '2009-12-21 18:50:58'
- author:
    name: nettoo
    picture: 113757
  body: "I just sent an PM to Forum's Administrator, let's see what he'll said if
    he answer at all on my message.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-21 21:33:23'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "You could always take the Letterheads fonts approach...\r\n\r\n[[http://letterheadfonts.com/piracy/fontguard.php]]\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-12-21 21:35:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You could always take the Letterheads fonts approach...\"\r\n\r\nTrue.
    But ask your paying customers first. ;)"
  created: '2009-12-21 21:42:15'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "\u201CTrue. But ask your paying customers first. ;)\u201D\r\n\r\nDefinately....\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-12-21 21:46:21'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>\u201Cdo you have any idea that might be helpful against those bastards?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Take a deep breath and...ignore them.\r\n\r\nFolks downloading massive amounts
    of fonts from torrent sites aren\u2019t likely anywhere close to being a paying
    customer of yours. It\u2019s more of a sport for them than any sort of organized
    attack against you.</em>\r\n\r\nE X A C T L Y\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-21 22:03:12'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>http://letterheadfonts.com/piracy/fontguard.php</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Letterhead
    Fonts does not hesitate to prosecute the original purchaser when we discover a
    font has been shared. In addition to the fines provided by the DMCA, Letterhead
    Fonts will also seek damages for each pirated copy as a result of the original
    purchaser's negligence.</em>\r\n\r\nJeez. Way to scare the pants off potential
    customers."
  created: '2009-12-21 22:07:41'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I didn't say it was a good idea... \r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-12-21 22:46:41'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Yea, Letterhead is a tad paranoid. '
  created: '2009-12-22 15:30:15'
- author:
    name: inde
    picture: 112647
  body: "Pirating is a fact... get along with it.. some fonts wouldn't survive if
    they weren't so publicly implemented via pirated downloads. From my experience
    with the font distribution of a free font, people contact me for a sale even though
    i mention it is free!... So if someone was meant to buy it he is likely still
    going to, if he changes his mind and downloads the font \"illegally\", you probably
    didn't need him as a customer in the first place.\r\n\r\nAndreas"
  created: '2009-12-22 17:25:09'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "I'm a little surprised at some of the responses here.  I realize that file
    sharers aren't likely to become paying customers, but if they are using your IP
    without a proper license, they are breaking the law and there are (in theory,
    anyway) legal remedies for that.  If font designers would subpoena file sharing
    sites for all identifying information (including IP and MAC addresses) of people
    passing around their work, it might encourage the owners of these sites to supervise
    site activity a bit more closely (or to get out of the file-sharing business altogether).
    \ And if designers would then track down offending file sharers and serve up hefty
    fines and/or criminal charges, it might deter others, and it might help designers
    recover some lost revenue.\r\n\r\nHaving said all that, I have no fonts on the
    market and no experience with this kind of legal action.  I'd be interested to
    hear from anybody who's tried this kind of thing.  I understand there's a certain
    cost and hassle involved with this stuff, but the cost of ignoring the problem
    is that you send the message that you are a pushover and that your IP can be obtained
    free of charge, with impunity.  Which costs more?"
  created: '2009-12-22 18:51:34'
- author:
    name: nettoo
    picture: 113757
  body: "Still no answer from forum's Admin. I sent, just as an insurance, similar
    email to owner of this website from email I found via Whois.\r\n\r\nI'm not optimistic,
    but I have patient. If I don't receive answer until the end of the year, I'm gonna
    take some steps in other direction."
  created: '2009-12-22 21:12:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are two reasons people sometimes advise just doing nothing. It's kind
    of like playing whack-a-mole, only imagine that:\r\n\r\n1) it's an infinite number
    of holes in all directions\r\n\r\n2) you are using a defective mallet that only
    works one time in four, and never on the special jumbo-size holes.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is why for many people in font design, the frustration of trying to do anti-piracy
    enforcement outweighs the benefits (especially if one is trying to think of piracy
    reduction as, for example, a percentage of total piracy).\r\n\r\nNot that I in
    any way wish to malign the efforts of those who do it, but I am equally sympathetic
    to those who throw their hands up and say \"it's just too much to try to deal
    with.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-23 03:43:14'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>And if designers would then track down offending file sharers and serve
    up hefty fines and/or criminal charges, it might deter others, and it might help
    designers recover some lost revenue.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat lost revenue?"
  created: '2009-12-23 07:11:04'
- author:
    name: nettoo
    picture: 113757
  body: "I know that BIG % of those who use computers don't even know that fonts are
    made by someone and that they are not installed in their computers just like that.
    Everything reminds me on story about MP3... that's almost the same \"answer\"
    and the same \"purpose\".\r\n\r\nMy personal opinion is that big software companies
    are not interested as much as they should be in making some, for example, new
    file format with better protection or making those already existing with more
    features.\r\n\r\nEven if we are very small foundry (actually, we're under name
    \"project\"), I won't give up on this, especially because they don't think it's
    fair enough just to answer on my messages.\r\n\r\nWe have very similar situation
    with one bigger foundry that sells fonts from other foundries (I'll just say for
    now that they are from & based in USA). This one will be under new topic."
  created: '2009-12-23 08:58:52'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "let us know how the battle goes...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 10:27:40'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "whack the mole - I like that...\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-12-23 14:45:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"My personal opinion is that big software companies are not interested as
    much as they should be in making some, for example, new file format with better
    protection or making those already existing with more features.\"\r\n\r\nThey
    are very, very interested. Alas, it usually always fails. And in the process,
    tends to annoy their actual paying customers. \r\n\r\n\"Everything reminds me
    on story about MP3\"\r\n\r\nThey tried the whole restrict/protect/sue/sue/sue
    approach. They, too, finally decided to just make it easier for people that want
    to buy the stuff do that.\r\n\r\nThomas said it well. Go after these people if
    you desire, but realize that you might not get any ROI on the effort you put into
    it. "
  created: '2009-12-23 15:34:19'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>They are very, very interested. Alas, it usually always fails.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/8428126.stm\r\nUsing
    technology to prevent or stanch piracy can only ever be so effective.\r\n\r\nAnd
    regarding legal remedies, this may strike some as arch blasphemy (including myself,
    maybe, if I make good on my plans to go to law school next fall), but per a Jeffersonian,
    Lessig-ish interpretation, intellectual property rights are not God-given and
    inalienable. They exist to compensate for the phenomena by which innovation and
    creativity carry certain disincentives when subjected to natural market forces.
    By mapping our concepts of brick-and-mortar property rights onto IP, we fall victim
    to the mindset that we own our ideas. We don't. Not once they've been let out
    of our heads, anyway. \r\n\r\nAnd for as distressing as it seems that many otherwise
    very qualified people can't make a living off of type design--much less become
    wealthy--thanks in large part to digital piracy, there still exists, either because
    or in spite of the available legal remedies, considerable innovation. Just look
    at the fonts that came out this year. \r\n\r\nOf course things are generally headed
    away from this kind of light-touch IP model (maybe happily?) because other creative
    industries have been able to put some legal muscle into exercising their IP rights.
    But again, there's this illusion that just because this is the direction the money
    flows, and the way each extended term of copyright points, that it's leading toward
    a better solution. I think one needs to weigh the purpose of these legal remedies
    before one engages them, lest one becomes unintentionally complicit in the birthing
    of an ugly, over-litigated future for creativity and innovation. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 19:27:48'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Eric, I understand most of the arguments against legal action given so far
    in this thread, but I'm not sure you are arguing about the same thing as everyone
    else.  You're talking about creativity and innovation and ownership of ideas.
    \ I'm talking about digital artefacts and EULAs.  I'm talking about person A asking
    in an online forum if someone could send him the Skolar Pro files so he doesn't
    have to shell out \u20AC200 for them, person B sending him the files, and persons
    C through M making the same request and receiving the same files.  You write that
    <em>one needs to weigh the purpose of these legal remedies before one engages
    them</em>.  As far as I'm concerned, those legal remedies exist to make EULAs
    enforceable, to prevent people from distributing or obtaining fonts illegally,
    and to collect damages from those who have done so.  Given the clear evidence
    that persons A through M have broken the law, I see no ugliness in going after
    them.  Maybe, as others have said, it's not worth the time and effort to pursue
    this kind of action, but surely \"creativity and innovation\" wouldn't be your
    reason for not going after folks who have pirated your fonts.  Would it?"
  created: '2009-12-23 20:22:15'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I'm arguing that a better question than \"How to fight against those scums?\"
    is \"Why are we fighting against those scums?\" Your point that individual EULAs
    and the letter of the law work together to allow for a legal remedy is well taken,
    but such a legal remedy isn\u2019t rooted in the same kinds of policy objectives
    as those pertaining to the recovery of stolen brick-and-mortar property, or the
    recompense for bodily injury. What I\u2019m trying to say is that (American) IP
    rights are not the magical, inalienable personal rights protected in the Bill
    of Rights US Constitution. Yes, we have legal recourse at our disposal, but because
    of the original policy objectives behind that legal recourse (forget for a moment
    about Sonny Bono and Disney), we are under no moral obligation to engage them.
    \r\n\r\nThe argument presented elsewhere in this thread looks something like this:
    <cite>Are these EULAs enforceable by US courts?</cite> Yes. <cite>But is it often
    costly or futile to pursue litigation to try to enforce them?</cite> Yes. Conclusion:
    it\u2019s probably not a good idea to go after the scums with lawyers 100% of
    the time.\r\n\r\nMy argument, which reaches the nearly same conclusion, looks
    like this: <cite>Is rampant piracy chilling innovation?</cite> No. <cite>Could
    over-litigation in time chill innovation?</cite> Possibly. Conclusion: we should
    think very, very hard before going after the scums with lawyers.   \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 20:58:27'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Your argument contains a number of assumptions that you're not making explicit.
    \ You talk about original policy objectives for at least three different sets
    of laws (recovery of stolen physical property, recompense for bodily injury, and
    rights associated with intellectual property) without ever spelling out what you
    believe those original policy objectives are.  Then you state that \"over-litigation\"
    (which you don't define) may chill innovation, without explaining how you imagine
    that chilling might come about.  Maybe I'm not imaginative enough, but I fail
    to see how successful enforcement of EULAs is going to discourage anybody from
    designing a new font.  If anything, it seems to me it should have the opposite
    effect.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to be a jerk, and I certainly don't disrespect you
    for your point of view, but I don't follow your line of reasoning or share your
    conclusion."
  created: '2009-12-23 21:47:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "If there were no piracy, would more fonts be sold legally? How many more?\r\n\r\nI'd
    bet that 90% of all font piracy is between people who would be satisfied with
    system fonts and would never-ever buy font if they couldn't get it for free or
    at a substantial discount.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 21:47:23'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "I'm sure I'm following my own line of reasoning or its conclusion either.
    I have to commute home now, so I'll think about it on the drive. The conclusion
    itself is kind of evil-sounding and very well might be totally invalid.\r\n\r\nThough
    the stuff about the policy origins of copyright law et al.--I can make some sense
    of that. But later. "
  created: '2009-12-23 22:07:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I believe the \"policy origin\" that Eric is referring to is the clause from
    the U.S. Constitution from which all U.S. copyright law springs:\r\n\r\n\"The
    Congress shall have Power .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. To promote the Progress of Science and
    useful Arts, by securing for limited T\u0131mes to Authors and Inventors the exclusive
    Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.\" [United States Constitution,
    Article I, Section 8]"
  created: '2009-12-24 13:22:34'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: "<cite>but I fail to see how successful enforcement of EULAs is going to discourage
    anybody from designing a new font.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think I see my error. I don't
    think I can really argue that the absence of effective legal recourse for every
    instance of EULA violation isn't discouraging type design, and in the same breath
    argue that suing every individual who violates a EULA, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joel_Tenenbaum|Joel
    Tenenbaum style]], is somehow in turn going to <cite>have</cite> a discouraging
    effect. \r\n\r\nThe truth is, nothing is likely to keep people from designing
    type. It isn't like inventing a new drug, or making a movie. It's cheaper and
    more solitary. And thanks to the advent of the internet, it's more immediate than
    it's ever been at any point in history.\r\n\r\nMy point about the original purpose
    of IP law in America derives from Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution:\r\n\r\n<cite>Congress
    shall have power . . . To promote the progress of science and useful arts, by
    securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their
    respective writings and discoveries.</cite>\r\n\r\nIP law doesn't exist because
    we have any kind of innate entitlement to ownership over our ideas, or even to
    make a living practicing the creative arts. It's callous to think of it this way,
    and in a way it only makes sense as an outsider, but the point of IP law is to
    make sure that Goudy Sans gets created, not that Frederic Goudy gets paid. It
    happens that the best way to ensure the former is to provide for the latter, though
    in type design, time and again, it's been demonstrated that the former will sometimes
    just happen of its own accord.  \r\n\r\nI think I've just had too much Free Culture
    Kool-Aid recently, and am confusing a widespread antipathy toward derivative works
    (which are actually fairly well-supported by type law) and one toward outright
    piracy (which is warranted here). \r\n\r\nAs an outsider I just feel lucky that
    I get to live in a world with all this great type, it's none of my business for
    now what drives that innovation. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 14:54:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ehague\r\n\r\n>the point of IP law is to make sure that Goudy Sans gets
    created, not that Frederic Goudy gets paid.\r\n\r\nYou need a history lesson,
    sir.\r\n\r\n>It happens that the best way to ensure the former is to\r\n>provide
    for the latter\r\n\r\nCite me some evidence for this. (I already have enough to
    the contrary.)\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards, <href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Rich</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 15:52:15'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\r\n>the point of IP law is to make sure that Goudy Sans gets created, not
    that Frederic Goudy gets paid.\r\n\r\nfront and back of the same coin.\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 15:55:47'
date: '2009-12-21 17:16:28'
node_type: forum
title: How to fight against those scums???!?!?

---
