---
author:
  name: Meredith Ann Brooks
  picture: 118248
body: A neat lesson in customizing type. [[http://jessicahische.com/typographizes/an-illustrative-initial-every-day|Jessica
  Hische]], creator of the [[http://dailydropcap.com/|Daily Drop Cap]], teaches you
  how to draw the letter A.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1260453315_6733.jpg]
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pretty.\r\nBut in reality typographic letterforms are\r\nnot made of skeletons.
    They're made of notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-21 20:20:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "What's \"notan?\"\r\n\r\nAnd are you truncating your lines on purpose for
    iPhones or small screen devices? I think this is the 2nd time I've see you done
    that. Don't devices take care of their own line wrapping? I still have no idea
    why bowerbird does this (let alone who he is in real life)."
  created: '2009-12-21 20:35:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Notan (a Japanese term) is the unity and relationship of Black & White. It
    is what we see and read. However it's understandably extremely difficult to overcome
    the day-one indoctrination* and the quotidian practicality of making letters via
    skeletons.\r\n\r\n* We even try to enforce the <em>order</em> of the strokes.
    There's a Leapfrog device my younger son has been using. I'd really like to burn
    it at the stake.\r\n\r\nI often write in narrow columns, because it helps reading.\r\n(I
    will even change the words and/or the line measure to get a good rag.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-21 20:52:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Any web user can simply increase the size of the type on the fly. It's even
    build into apple's multi-touch trackpads and mice now. Forcing line-breaks sometimes
    interferes settings for the visually impaired. But I do agree with the ~65 character/line
    convention employed by everyone from Tschichold\u2013Bringhurst. I often find
    web type too small (and as a result, the line-length too long) so the first thing
    I do is increase it's size. This, for the most part, then reduces the character-count.
    For example, I look at typophile at this size:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mytypesize_6589.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    did some interesting reading on your site hrant. I had no idea you were so interested
    in issues of legibility/readability. Where did you study this? Do you have any
    published works? I am always on the lookout for people such as Larson and yourself."
  created: '2009-12-21 21:14:43'
- author:
    name: karinskij
    picture: 118318
  body: Skeletons or not, I find them very inspiring. Thanks for posting.
  created: '2009-12-21 21:18:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "To be fair, she says 'decorate a letter'.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2009-12-21 21:44:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: This is great.
  created: '2009-12-21 22:58:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Notan (a Japanese term) is the unity and relationship of Black
    & White.</em>\r\n\r\nActually dark and light, not black and white. Which is surely
    a relevant distinction in the context of antialiasing."
  created: '2009-12-21 23:01:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher dean\r\n\r\n>This, for the most part, then reduces the character-count.\r\n\r\nAs
    you say \"for the most part\" this is what happens. That's because, typically,
    a web page gets laid out in pixel-sized boxes without explicit heights and without
    regard to font metrics and text just gets poured into it. When the text re-wraps,
    the bottom of the box moves upwards or downwards, depending. This can also happen
    at different Zoom levels, as well. \r\nThis kind of design is made possible only
    because the page can scroll endlessly downward to accomodate however much text
    you throw into the box or boxes. An escape hatch of sorts.\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    (or anybody, please), do you know of any studies about the effect of scrolling
    on reading? \r\n\r\nBTW - The effect you've described on Zoom can be mitigated
    greatly by sizing the containing HTML element not in pixels, but in em units.
    If done precisely, yes, the character count will change a bit but the number of
    lines can remain unchanged so the height of the \"golden rectangle\" remains the
    same.\r\nYou rarely see pages designed this way for at least two reasons:\r\n\r\n1)
    Until recently, support for the em unit was uneven from browser to browser.\r\n\r\n2)
    It's so much less work to just let the text flow downward.\r\n\r\nNow that fonts
    can be linked to web pages, and almost all new browsers support the soft hyphen,
    maybe there will be a bit more attention paid to onscreen typesetting. We shall
    see. Certainly with static content of importance it makes some sense to take the
    time.\r\n\r\nAlso, as of Firefox 3.6, Firefox has followed the lead of IE8 and
    given web developers a JavaScript property with which to measure the Zoom level.
    So at least on the initial loading of the page, there does not necessarily have
    to be a change in character count at all - it can be rigged programmatically to
    be the same at every Zoom level.\r\nHowever, the text actually looks better if
    you let it reflow a bit and settle in.\r\nI'll be trying to talk browser makers
    into giving web developers an <strong>onzoom</strong> and (in IE) an <strong>ontextsizechange</strong>
    <em>event</em> so that user-changes to Zoom and Text Size can be detected programmatically.
    With those tools the issue of line length and column width at any Zoom can be
    solved completely and permanently. \r\n\r\n@hrant\r\n\r\n>I will even change the
    words and/or the line measure to\r\n>get a good rag.\r\n\r\nYeah, so will I. But
    few people bother. (I assume you're talking onscreen?)\r\nAnd did you ever wonder
    why most printed text (in English, at least) is justified and hyphenated and almost
    nothing on the web is?\r\nDoesn't have to be that way anymore. All new browsers
    support the soft-hyphen and the means to massage and tweak the text to avoid widows,
    orphans, rivers, etc... exist.\r\n\r\nIMHO - scrolling interferes with a smooth
    reading experience much more than most people realize. We've just had to accept
    it.\r\n\r\n(Sorry for going on about this. An area of special interest to me.)\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>"
  created: '2009-12-22 01:56:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Baker, J. R., (2003). [[http://www.surl.org/usabilitynews/51/paging_scrolling.asp|The
    impact of paging vs. scrolling on reading online text passages]]. <em>Usability
    News, (51)1</em>.\r\n\r\nChen, C. H., Chien, Y., H. (2005). Effect of dynamic
    display and speed of display movement on reading Chinese text presented on a small
    screen. <em>Perceptual and Motor Skills, 3</em>, 865\u2013873.\r\n\r\nDyson, M.
    C. (2004). How physical text layout affects reading from screen. <em>Behaviour
    and Information Technology, 23(6)</em>, 377\u2013393.\r\n\r\nDyson, M. C., Haselgrove,
    M. (2001). The influence of reading speed and line length on the effectiveness
    of reading from screen. <em>Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 54(4)</em>, 585\u2013612.\r\n\r\nDyson,
    M. C., Kipping, G. J. (1997). The legibility of screen formats: Are three columns
    better than one? <em>Computers and Graphics, 21(6)</em>, 703\u2013712.\r\n\r\nvan
    Nimwegen, C., Pouw, M., van Oostendorp, H. (1999). The influence of structure
    and reading-manipulation on usability of hypertexts. <em>Interacting With Computers
    , 12(1)</em>, 7\u201321.\r\n\t\r\nPiolat, A., Roussey, J. Y., Thunin, O. (1997).
    Effects of screen presentation on text reading and revising. <em>Interational
    Journal of Human\u2013Computer Studies, 47(4)</em>, 565\u2013589.\r\n\r\nLarson
    would also be a good person to ask. Hope this helps."
  created: '2009-12-22 03:10:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Christopher, expecting people to zoom is an obstacle best avoided. Plus the
    type might get too big to read comfortably if the chars/line is made low enough
    (not that most users even have any that a line can be too long, much less what
    length to make it).\r\n\r\n> Forcing line-breaks sometimes interferes\r\n> settings
    for the visually impaired. \r\n\r\nHow?\r\n\r\n> I look at typophile at this size:
    ....\r\n\r\nThat's huge. What's your monitor's ppi?\r\n\r\nBTW, when I try to
    make what I write more readable, I don't worry about iPhones and such. Frankly
    readability is so poor on most hand-held devices* that there's no point.\r\n\r\n*
    The Motorola Droid and some HTC models are notable exceptions.\r\n\r\n> I had
    no idea you were so interested in issues of legibility/readability. \r\n\r\nInterested,
    yes (for over a decade now). But I can't compete with Kevin's formal background
    in the field (I'm entirely self-taught, and have zero research funding). Mostly
    I see my potential usefulness in this area as an instigator.\r\n\r\n> Actually
    dark and light, not black and white. Which is\r\n> surely a relevant distinction
    in the context of antialiasing.\r\n\r\nAnd beyond. I've dreamed of a font format
    that defines not only outlines, but vectors perpendicular to the outlines that
    define the black-white gradation around the limen.\r\n\r\n> scrolling interferes
    with a smooth reading experience\r\n\r\nIndeed. That's because reading isn't smooth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 05:44:04'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>And beyond. I\u2019ve dreamed of a font format that defines not only
    outlines, but vectors perpendicular to the outlines that define the black-white
    gradation around the limen.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is an awesome idea. Creating different
    grades of opacity using diluted ink in ink drawings is the only context I've seen
    the term <em>notan</em> (\u6FC3\u6DE1) before coming to Typophile, so I had been
    puzzled to see it applied to a normally black-and-white discipline such as type
    design."
  created: '2009-12-22 08:03:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You could say Black&White is a special case. But it's our case.\r\nAnd: http://www.amandawilliams.com.au/wordpress/?p=40\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 15:13:39'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ hrant: 150ppi, but again, my eyesight is poor so I tend to make things
    bigger than most (a side effect of my anticonvulsant medication sometimes give
    me blurry vision. A typographer with poor eyesight. How ironic). Even my supervisor
    who is 30 years my seniour thinks it's funny how big I like my screen type. I
    tend to increase the size of type as big as I can without inducing a horizontal
    scroll or to ~65 cpl. Whichever comes first. \r\n\r\nRe: forcing line-breaks and
    accessibility software, an old friend of mine who was seriously visually impaired
    used accessibility software (I do not remember the name and this was some time
    ago) which increased the size of the type of whatever he looked at to letters
    that were literally over one inch in x-height which auto-reflowed everything to
    fit on his screen so he didn't need to scroll horizontally. If there were forced
    line breaks in the text, as I once saw, they created big unnatural gaps in the
    text as they didn't allow for a clean re-flowing. He commented on this very fact.
    Years later this may  be moot.\r\n\r\nThanks for the tip to the [[http://phones.verizonwireless.com/motorola/droid/#/home|Droid]]
    and [[http://www.htcpda.co.uk/product_category_page.htm|HTC devices]]. New to
    me. Do you recommend any one in particular (referably something bullet-proof)?
    I have a soft-spot for small screen devices. I have had my eyes on an iPhone for
    some time but simply can't afford the monthly packages. That, and I <em>still</em>
    find texting on them to be a nightmare."
  created: '2009-12-22 15:21:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A typographer with poor eyesight. How ironic\r\n\r\nI used to work with
    a graphic designer who was colorblind.\r\n\r\nThanks for explaining that accessibility
    case.\r\n\r\nI was HTC all the way until the Droid came out.\r\nYou want irony
    though? I don't own a cellphone.\r\nPart of it is that I'm still waiting for Mr
    Right.\r\nThe strong and <em>silent</em> type...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 15:28:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I found this typeface called [[http://kidsfonts.mivox.com/trace-font.html|TraceFont]].
    Cool. [[http://peeweesplayhouse.ning.com/video/connect-the-dots|Connect the dots,
    la-la-la-la]].
  created: '2009-12-22 16:04:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> We even try to enforce the <em>order</em> of the strokes.\r\n\r\nThat makes
    sense for Japanese - just as it does for Chinese. But there is no standardized
    stroke order for the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nI suppose that, just as stroke order
    is made visible in the more cursive styles of Chinese character writing, one could
    derive a stroke order for the Latin alphabet from handwriting."
  created: '2009-12-22 16:22:38'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Jessica Hische teaches you type</cite>\r\n\r\nThis sheet is pure signographics.
    Do this kind of exercise not with letters allone, try out other graphs as well.\r\n\r\nMERRY
    CHRISTMAS to all typophiles * * *\r\n\r\nA:S"
  created: '2009-12-22 16:30:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is no standardized stroke order for the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nThere
    is no one standard. But sadly some people do have their cherished one they wield
    like a battle axe; and actually something like Italian chancery is pretty strict.
    But most of all, take the case of that Leapfrog device: when I use it with my
    son, half the time it buzzes at me because my fine-looking \"E\" wasn't made in
    exactly the right stroke-order. This is bad for our kids, hence all of society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 17:55:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: 30 years ago when we learned printing and cursive writing we definately had
    instruction books which gave us a specific stroke order, and I'm pretty sure there
    was somewhat of a standard, but again, this was 30 years ago. I had a look online
    and came up with not. I'm not even sure if they they teach cursive writing anymore.
    Anyone know what age they teach kids to type at these days?
  created: '2009-12-22 18:43:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some places nicely early:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 18:48:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>That makes sense for Japanese - just as it does for Chinese. But there
    is no standardized stroke order for the Latin alphabet.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've told
    this story before, but my Japanese and Chinese friends laugh when they see me
    write Chinese characters, because the order of the strokes is all wrong. Koreans
    of my generation generally have varying reading knowledge of basic Chinese characters,
    and unless we study Chinese or Japanese as a foreign language we have very few
    occasions ever to write in Chinese characters.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, there are
    differences between the Chinese and Japanese norms in the stroke order for some
    characters. The Japanese order tends to follow character etymology while the Chinese
    order tends to follow the geometry of the character construction with less regard
    for the original etymology, if I recall correctly.\r\n\r\nIt would be great to
    have an international survey of stroke orders so we can see the variety in which
    pupils in different countries are taught to write the same letters.."
  created: '2009-12-22 19:17:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not even sure if they they teach cursive writing anymore. Anyone
    know what age they teach kids to type at these days?</em>\r\n\r\nMy 9-year-old
    daughter learns both in school."
  created: '2009-12-22 19:35:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my Japanese and Chinese friends laugh when\r\n> they see me write Chinese
    characters\r\n\r\nIn some scripts the ordering might actually contain information\r\nthat
    helps reinforce meaning - but in Latin it's just fascist.\r\n\r\n> It would be
    great to have an international survey of stroke orders\r\n\r\nYes, but even more
    interesting would be\r\nto study how people violate the norms.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 20:13:16'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Yes, but even more interesting would be\r\nto study how people violate
    the norms.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, a survey of how people <em>actually</em> write letters
    in different places would be illuminating. I didn't mean to confine it to the
    way they are taught, as I imagine stroke orders are not drilled to the same degree
    everywhere.\r\n\r\nThese stroke order differences, as well as differences in how
    the letters are split up into different strokes, result in important differences
    in the shapes of handwritten letters between different cultures. I would add numerals
    to this survey."
  created: '2009-12-22 20:32:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '@Hrant: of all the things a type designer could teach his kid, why would
    you cede letter-making to the Leapfrog!? :-) '
  created: '2009-12-22 21:12:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't want to be a notanazi.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 21:18:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However, a story from my older son's notanic adventures:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/34150\r\nSee
    my third post of June 5, 2007.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 21:31:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> In some scripts the ordering might actually contain information that helps
    reinforce meaning - but in Latin it\u2019s just fascist.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, I had
    misunderstood you. I thought you were trying to get your son to use the right
    stroke order, and the Leapfrog device was the opposite.\r\n\r\nI remember the
    old Palm Pilot Graffiti input method, although I didn't use it myself, so I understand
    why something like stroke order is used there. It is not stroke order for writing;
    instead, letters are entered with a gestural code, and the correspondence between
    the gestures and letter shapes is... a mnemonic device.\r\n\r\nSo this is cybercrud,
    not fascism: since handwriting recognition is not accurate enough, or requires
    too many CPU cycles, text is entered in a sub-writing fashion. The intent is not
    to promote \"better\" handwriting."
  created: '2009-12-22 22:15:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The fascism I talk about is that of unduly restricting the way people make
    letters; this makes people less creative in <em>anything</em>, and it severely
    hampers people who grow up to be type designers. :-) Having to write a certain
    way for a machine to be able to help you to me is a \"normal\" constraint.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-22 22:37:12'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: Does anybody draw the crossbar before the downstroke when writing a "t"? (Except
    for Chinese native-writers, who do just that) I would think our elementary school
    cursive handwriting models have some influence on the way we write, either as
    models or as models-rebelled-against.
  created: '2009-12-23 02:54:43'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Does anybody draw the crossbar before the downstroke when writing a
    \u201Ct\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nCome to think of it, <em>I</em> do in most cases,
    except when it is joined to the letter before it in cursive. I'm a Korean native
    writer, and we have a similar horizontal-before-the-vertical habit to the Chinese.
    Good observation! It didn't occur to me before that drawing the crossbar first
    would be atypical for Latin native writers."
  created: '2009-12-23 07:26:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My dad dots his \"i\"s and crosses his \"t\"s only after finishing the word;
    I think it comes from the fact that in school most of the writing he did was in
    Arabic. And I suspect the same is true for people who [have] focus[ed] on cursive
    (meaning: connected) writing in Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-23 07:39:33'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: In my normal writing speed, I would cross the "t" first in "tree" or any other
    word starting with "t", but last in "get", since I usually connect the "e" and
    the "t". But I don't usually connect the "t" if it comes after "r", so the crossbar
    comes first in words such as "art". Words like "fast" go either way depending
    on my writing speed and my mood.
  created: '2009-12-23 08:01:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher dean\r\n\r\nThanks for the multitude of references! I'll be
    checking out every one of them.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2009-12-23 16:01:35'
date: '2009-12-21 19:56:53'
node_type: forum
title: 'Teaching Type: How to draw an A'

---
