---
author:
  name: quadibloc
  picture: 118515
body: "As I've expressed the opinion that there are both good and bad Scotch Roman
  types, it makes sense to explain more clearly what I mean by that.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compare_5838.JPG]\r\n\r\nOn
  the left is what I consider to be a \"bad\" Scotch Roman, and on the right a \"good\"
  Scotch Roman. Both samples are from the same old type specimen book.\r\n\r\nI had
  noticed that to find examples of \"bad\" Scotch Romans, it seemed as though I had
  to look at specimen books sufficiently old that the types were sold by the traditional
  named sizes instead of on the point system: another old specimen book, which had
  types of both kinds only had the \"bad\" Scotch Romans in the older sizes.\r\n\r\nThe
  example of a good Scotch has somewhat lower stroke contrast than the bad one. But
  the most obvious problem with the bad Scotch is how condensed it is, and there are
  types overly condensed from a viewpoint of readability in all type families - although
  generally, only in Scotch Roman had they been considered fit for text instead of
  for specialized display purposes."
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I\u2019ve expressed the opinion that there are both
    good and bad Scotch Roman types, .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.</cite> \r\n\r\nThere are both
    \"good\" and \"bad\" every-kind-of-Roman types. Also considered fit for text at
    various historical points in time."
  created: '2009-12-23 17:35:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>(Content may be in italics due to unclosed tag in previous post. Unable
    to resolve through inserting &lt;/em&gt; at start.)</cite>\r\n\r\n<em>Of course</em>
    there are good and bad typefaces in every genre, oldstyle, sans-serif, script,
    and so on.\r\n\r\nSo, if I have a point to make, I suppose I had better state
    my point, whatever that point might be.\r\n\r\nI hereby claim, aver, and assert
    the following:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>That it is possible for a typeface of the Scotch
    Roman genre to be attractive and easily readable;\r\n<li>That, however, for a
    number of causes, Scotch Roman faces had a bad reputation; and\r\n<li>That this
    reputation was <em>earned</em> by the prevalence in 19th Century typography of
    Scotch Roman fonts with numerous faults, the most obvious of them being a tendency
    to be overly condensed.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThe second point is non-controversial.
    The first point seems to be disputed to a limited extent. The third point seems
    to be particularly controversial.\r\n\r\nFrom the combination of the third and
    first points, a relatively uncontroversial conclusion can be stated - that the
    problems of 19th Century typography stemmed more from pressure to economize on
    paper than from the aesthetic that happened to lead to a preference for Scotch
    Roman faces.\r\n\r\nBut I want to draw a much more controversial conclusion:\r\n\r\n<strong>The
    prevalence of overly light and overly condensed Scotch Romans eventually led to
    people thinking that this was what a Scotch Roman should look like - and this
    led to faces like Modern No. 20, and Monotype's Modern Series 7 carrying over,
    to some extent, the flaws of the lesser exemplars of the genre... so that a good
    Scotch Roman had been hard to find (say in the 1960s or the 1970s).</strong>\r\n\r\nNow,
    of course, with Type 1 and Truetype fonts, instead of typefaces coming only from
    major foundries or typesetting machine makers, although not 100% true, it seems
    as though almost any conceivable type of typeface could not possibly be all that
    hard to find.\r\n\r\nThere. Have I at least said <em>something</em> now?"
  created: '2009-12-23 20:25:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "First of all, my apologies for not closing the &lt;cite&gt; tag. [Fixed now]\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    I do not find much to debate in the three points you just made, nor necessarily
    in your bold conclusion.\r\n\r\nI suppose what rankled me in your initial post
    (and which I did not take time to adequately engage or address) is the very last
    point that implies that Scotch Roman was the first style to foist condensed proportions
    in text upon the reading public.\r\n\r\nI don't think this is true at all. The
    Scotch Romans that you refer to probably inherited these proportions from the
    earlier Ionics and original Clarendons from which they ultimately derive. Although
    these were not strictly text faces, they were nonetheless employed and accepted
    as such in a variety of text settings. (I'm not claiming that these were any kind
    of exemplar of fine readability, per se; just that they were widely used and read
    and, at the time, deemed at least marginally fit for the purpose.)\r\n\r\nIn the
    previous century, precedents for these same sorts of proportions will be found
    in some of Fournier's fonts, especially those he described as <em>dans le go\xFBt
    Hollandois</em> -- which in turn take their direction from the incipient narrowness
    of some Dutch Baroque oldstyles, such as may be found in the catalogs of Ensched\xE9
    or Rosart for example.\r\n\r\nWhile these narrow oldstyles may not have achieved
    the same widespread deployment in their own day as the Scotch Romans to which
    you refer in the 19th century, these earlier examples were nonetheless designed,
    used, and accepted as \"fit for text\"."
  created: '2009-12-24 00:21:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kent: <em>While these narrow oldstyles may not have achieved the same widespread
    deployment in their own day as the Scotch Romans to which you refer in the 19th
    century, these earlier examples were nonetheless designed, used, and accepted
    as \u201Cfit for text\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nFleischmann's Long Primer Roman No.48
    is one of my favourites of the condensed <em>Hollandois</em> types that Fournier
    may have had in mind."
  created: '2009-12-24 00:36:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> the very last point that implies that Scotch Roman was the first style
    to foist condensed proportions in text upon the reading public.\r\n\r\nAh. That
    is one thing I didn't intend to imply. I suppose the first style to do that might
    be the early italics... although they weren't so much condensed as having a low
    x-height.\r\n\r\nAnd, as I've noted, being condensed might be the most obvious
    flaw, but I don't think it's the only flaw, of some of the Scotch Roman faces."
  created: '2009-12-24 01:34:36'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hmm. John [Hudson], you've got me stumped. I'm not sure which Fleischmann
    you refer to. The Ensched\xE9 specimen I have (the 1993 facsimile of the 1768
    specimen) uses the Dutch designations. Long primer is equivalent to Garmond, yes?
    I don't see any faces numbered so high as 48. Do you know if the face you refer
    to is in that specimen?"
  created: '2009-12-24 13:57:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the glorious 1908 specimen book the #48 is shown on page 175.\r\nThe book
    being in French, the size is called \"Petit romain\" (9pt).\r\n\r\nFWIW, my own
    Fleischmann favorite -by far- is the #65,\r\na mystery that nobody has yet managed
    to unravel:\r\nhttp://www.typographer.org/2005_06_01_digests.html\r\n(In fact
    until Legato came out it was my most favorite font.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 16:37:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the Scotchs, I confess that I have an allergy to Victorian styles, and
    the higher contrast Scotchs, such as you show, are to me very Victorian. Maybe
    the very earliest Scotch is not, but I'd have to see more of it. \r\n\r\nThe tendril
    sticking up from the foot of the R, and tendril like terminals almost closing
    the c and e--it's the kind of Victorian approach to ornament that bothers me,
    and strikes me as fussy and overdone. \r\n\r\nOnce the century turns 20th everything
    gets better in my eyes. During my years in London, I remember one of my philosophy
    teachers (English) saying about 18th and 19th century architecture in London that
    it's as if in the 18th they could do no wrong, and in the 19th do no right. I
    kind of feel the same way, even though the Victorian period was one of the most
    innovative in the history of type, and there are a lot of designs created then
    that can be mined for ideas and freshened.  \r\n\r\nSo yes, the narrow is much
    more problematic, but the wide is for me not so comfortable a read either. To
    me those tendrils looping all over the place are cluttering, and the contrast
    too high. \r\n\r\nAmong book faces, the one with Scotch ancestry that really works
    for me is Caledonia, but as Dwiggins notes in the quote in the other thread that
    Kent quoted, it really looks overall very different from the Scotch style. I'd
    like to figure out what exactly Dwiggins did to change the style, as you can see
    the ancestry, yet the look is so different. \r\n\r\nThere are a bunch of Scotch
    influenced text types now by great designers, but influenced I think also by Benton,
    who changed them decisively--but I'm not sure how, except in changing contrast.
    These recent ones include Miller, Benton Modern, Escrow, Chronicle. I haven't
    looked at these enough to have an opinion, but I find Chronicle, which H & F-J
    call a \"blended scotch,\" really charming. \r\n\r\nNick Shinn's Scotch Modern
    goes back and gets the authentic Victorian feel, but manages to brush off all
    the cobwebs, and get a very pretty look. For me, it's not for extended text, though. "
  created: '2009-12-24 19:14:31'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve expressed the opinion that there are both good and bad Scotch
    Roman types</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not going to quarrel with the opinion, but if
    you are going to express it I think it might be useful to be clear about what
    \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019 is.\r\n\r\nIn his <em>Plain Printing Types</em> T. L.
    De Vinne referred to the \u2018Scotch-face\u2019, a type \u2018originated in 1837
    by S. N. Dickinson of Boston\u2019, who got punches from the foundry Alexander
    Wilson of Glasgow, originally \u2018a small round letter, with long aacenders,
    and not noticeably condensed or compressed\u2019. Later a condensed form was made,
    but when he wrote in 1900 he remarked that this was \u2018now out of fashion\u2019.
    Dickinson had put \u2018Scotch cut\u2019 in his specimens, and \u2018Scotch face\u2019
    became a kind of generic term among founders in the USA.\r\n\r\nIn about 1900
    \u2013 but I can\u2019t be more precise than this \u2013 the Farmer typefoundry
    in New York made a type that they called \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019. De Vinne bought
    some sizes of it. It originates with Miller & Richard in Edinburgh, who had begun
    to recast it from matrices of the early 19th century dating from between about
    1810 and 1820 for use in an edition of the works of John Dryden. \r\n\r\nIn their
    recasting Miller & Richard had introduced some letters that did not belong to
    the original types, notably one that De Vinne noticed as something peculiar and
    which I regret: a t with a flat top. There are some others too. These alien characters
    are all in Farmer\u2019s type too, and they make it very clear where he got it
    from: maybe by agreement with Miller & Richard or maybe not, but pretty certainly
    by making new electrotyped matrices from imported Scotch type. (These new sorts
    most be why Dwiggins put a flat top on the t of his \u2018Caledonia\u2019, believing
    wrongly that this was authentic Scotch usage, and I suspect it was also why Benton
    put a flat top on the t of his Bodoni \u2013 something Bodoni rarely did, if ever.)\r\n\r\nThen
    things began to happen. The type was used, set by hand I think, for the text of
    the journal <em>Printing Art</em>, launched in 1903. Then Mergenthaler Linotype
    and Lanston Monotype quickly made their own versions of \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019.
    ATF eventually had their \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019 too, maybe cast from the Farmer
    matrices (but they already had Will Bradley\u2019s \u2018Wayside\u2019, a frank
    piracy that was probably made by electrotyping the Farmer type).\r\n\r\nIn Britain
    the type was sometimes called \u2018Dryden\u2019 (for obvious reasons), or just
    \u2018Old Roman\u2019. British Monotype made a competent version based on the
    distinctive 12-point size, their series 46 (1907)  without giving it a special
    name at all and this is the model for their digitized version. Later, in 1921,
    their series 137 was a quite skilful copy of all the different sizes of the Miller
    & Richard type up to 14 point, made for a Scottish printer, and they failed to
    publicize it. It would have made a better model for the digital version. Eventually,
    maybe in the 1930s, they borrowed the US term \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019 for both
    these types.\r\n\r\nI have written plenty about the history of this type in different
    places and I am not done yet, but this is quite enough pedantry for my purpose
    here \u2013 which is to point out that \u2018Scotch-face\u2019 was a US generic
    style, albeit one ultimately derived from some Scotch types of the 1830s, and
    \u2018Scotch Roman\u2019, so-called, was something quite different, a type reproducing
    the earlier type of one typefounder. It is a different design, originating a generation
    before Dickinson\u2019s, and many people have preferred it. Maybe it makes life
    simpler to merge the two under a single name, but speaking personally I should
    prefer them to keep their separate identities."
  created: '2009-12-24 19:25:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I remembered noticing Wayside in some ATF specimen books. It seemed to me
    to be a 'good' Scotch Roman, or even a type that had some oldstyle characteristics.
    My memory could be wrong, though, so I'm going to take another look at it, as
    well as at the Farmer specimen book to see what corresponds to it.\r\n\r\nI've
    also noticed that some faces I thought were Scotch Roman had bracketed serifs...
    part of the time. Serifs on light strokes are bracketed, but on heavy strokes
    are not. Torino does this, but so does at least one older face I thought was a
    Scotch Roman."
  created: '2009-12-24 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> In their recasting Miller & Richard had introduced some letters that did\r\n>
    not belong to the original types, notably one that De Vinne noticed as\r\n> something
    peculiar and which I regret: a t with a flat top.\r\n\r\nIn Georgia and Miller,
    Carter has taken this up, albeit undoubtedly within an expert historical understanding.
    Interestingly, if I remember the MS promotional literature correctly, this was
    cast as a \"nod towards Didot\". Is there in fact a historical French connection
    :-) or would this be another case of design post-rationalization (something Carter
    himself has recently taken a gentle swipe at).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 20:49:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@quadibloc -- John, it has always been my impression that a slight bracketing
    of serifs is characteristic of the typical Scotch Roman and one of the aspects
    which distinguished this design from other branches of the Modern style. (Note
    that Matthew Carter has told me that he dislikes lumping the Scotch Romans in
    the Modern camp at all -- \"Scotch Roman was really a warmer reaction against
    the more rigorous Moderns.\")\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 22:02:54'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Dear John \u2018quadibloc\u2019. I don\u2019t know if you consider <a href=\"http://press.princeton.edu/Monticello/\">Monticello</a>
    a <em>good</em> or a <em>bad</em> Scotch. I love it. It is probably the finest
    Scotch Roman (made in the USA, though) Matthew Carter ever designed:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Monticello_5541.gif]"
  created: '2009-12-25 02:51:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good call. Monticello (formerly Oxford (formerly Binney & Ronaldson #1))
    I also find exceptional. The subtle & functional variances (like in the ascender
    head serifs), that brave but competent \"g\", not to mention the overall warmth,
    it all comes together fabulously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-25 03:10:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I love Monticello; my only problem with it is that because of its proportions,
    I keep getting it mixed up with Caledonia and Electra and the other typefaces
    by W. A. Dwiggins. Thus, I fail to recognize it as what it is supposed to be -
    a Bell revival. (I'm also dismayed that Bell, as currently made available, uses
    the eccentric alternate lowercase k instead of the normal one, since that interferes
    with its suitability for general use.)\r\n\r\nAlthough it may be technically a
    Scotch Roman, I don't lump it in with that class of typeface at all. Thus, I find
    Monticello to be fully suited for extended reading in text.\r\n\r\nYet this, which
    might seem similar, now seems to me\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bad2_4912.jpg]\r\n\r\nlike
    a better example of a \"bad\" Scotch Roman than the one with which I began."
  created: '2009-12-25 13:25:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "James, thanks for that informative summary.\r\n\r\nIn the thread about Williams
    Caslon that's somewhat related to this, readability comes up as a kind of causative
    force in historical development. Do you make these kind of historical judgments
    about forces that drive type-form change in you practice?\r\n\r\nPeter Enneson"
  created: '2009-12-25 13:53:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, James, thank you so much for insight on how complex the story really
    is. It is great to have some real history, instead of just conjectures like mine!\r\n\r\nI
    have become interested in what influence T.L. De Vinne had. I will get hold of
    De Vinne's Plain Printing Types and other books. Do you think his works, from
    1876 on, and he personally had an impact on the changes to type design in the
    late 19th and early 20th centuries, here in the US and in Britain?\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-25 14:55:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Speaking of history, I just read the following, in a .PDF document available
    online that turned up when I was doing a web search for information on the character
    widths of Palatino (because it has the narrower Trajan Column proportions for
    certain capital letters):\r\n\r\n\"The font Bembo was created in 1929 and since
    then has been proved to be one of the most popular typefaces created. The font
    was designed by an Italian man, Aldus Manutius.\"\r\n\r\nOf course, Aldus Manutius
    wasn't still alive in 1929. He certainly deserves credit for the design of Bembo,
    since it was based on the type he used in his edition of <em>De Aetna</em>, but
    it really should be made clearer that Aldus Manutius was never in the employ of
    Monotype."
  created: '2009-12-25 15:56:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Is Monticello really based on Bell?\r\n2) To me the \"k\" in Bell is fine,
    and fiiine. And was it\r\nreally just an alt? I always thought it was the main
    sort.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-25 15:59:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I have become interested in what influence T.L. De Vinne had. I will
    get hold of De Vinne\u2019s Plain Printing Types and other books. </em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    there are some editions of that De Vinne book on Google Books (search for \"The
    practice of typography\" as a title). "
  created: '2009-12-25 18:02:59'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > 1) Is Monticello really based on Bell?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. I think
    quadibloc's description of it as a \"Bell revival\" is an over-characterization.
    Monticello was explicitly a revival of Binny & Ronaldson's Pica Roman, No. 1.
    \r\n\r\nBinny, in turn, was likely influenced by Austin's works (whether specifically
    the face cut for Bell or not is unclear), but Binny did not set out to make a
    \"revival\" in any sense.\r\n\r\n<cite> > it really should be made clearer that
    Aldus Manutius was never in the employ of Monotype.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed. Not
    to mention the fact that the <em>De Aetna</em> font was designed/cut by Francesco
    Griffo. Aldus was not a type designer nor a punchcutter."
  created: '2009-12-25 18:31:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Indeed. Not to mention the fact that the <em>De Aetna</em> font was designed/cut
    by Francesco Griffo. Aldus was not a type designer nor a punchcutter.\r\n\r\nSo
    I guess my mental picture of Aldus Manutilus chatting with Stanley Morison over
    at the Monotype cafeteria doesn't need to be altered; Victor Lardent would be
    having lunch with Francesco Griffo over at another table. However, the book did
    note, later, \"The design was cut by Francesco Griffo\", so he was mentioned.\r\n\r\nThe
    book, it turned out, was a free download at www.lulu.com, although paper copies
    are also available for $8.99.\r\n\r\nThe book was produced by students, and it
    has a few typographical errors, so I suppose I shouldn't be too hard on it, but
    for some reason I found a few things about it annoying.\r\n\r\nI was amused by
    the fact that we were told that Aldus Manutius was an \"Italian man\". This will
    keep me from confusing him with Sophia Loren or Manuela Arcuri.\r\n\r\nThe next
    sentence after what I quoted, though, did much to remedy the fault, although not
    entirely:\r\n\r\n'Next to Gutenberg, Aldus was considered to be the most influential
    printer of the Renaissance, as well as a \"scholar-printer\"'. Only the most naive
    reader would be left wondering if the Renaissance shortly preceded the Great Depression,
    so at that point even a reader unfamiliar with typography would guess that Bembo
    was probably only revived in 1929.\r\n\r\nWhy did I find it annoying?\r\n\r\n\"Evidently
    there is nothing inherently noble and trust worthy in the written or printed word\",
    we are told, after noting that people can put nasty or dishonest things into print.\r\n\r\n\"Baskerville
    is an improved version of the typefaces of William Caslon.\" I would have thought
    that while Baskerville was intended to improve on Caslon's Roman, it is still
    a typeface of its own. Or I could be <em>really</em> snarky, and point out that
    Baskerville is actually not particularly well suited to setting material in Syriac
    or Armenian, so it doesn't improve on all of William Caslon's typefaces.\r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps what really annoyed me was\r\n\r\n\"Way before the technology of computers,
    typographers used a gaget known as a phototype machine.... Society thought the
    machine was a great invention until better gagets were created.\"\r\n\r\nGag me
    with a spoon, will you. But quite aside from the misspelling of \"gadget\" twice,
    this is the kind of writing I would expect from a six-year-old. I suppose that
    as a technologically-oriented individual myself, I am just miffed at the level
    of disrespect shown for the labors of scientists and inventors."
  created: '2009-12-25 19:36:41'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li>I\u2019m also dismayed that Bell, as currently made available, uses
    the eccentric alternate lowercase k instead of the normal one [\u2026]</li></ul>
    There are alternate glyphs in the font, and you are welcome to use them. However,
    the bowed legs of the K, R, etc. seem ti be critical to the authenticity of this
    typeface:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bell_MT_Alt_6015.png]"
  created: '2009-12-26 03:16:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kent, re. the Fleischmann 48:\r\n\r\nI know this design from Harry Carter's
    English version of the Charles Ensched\xE9 book to which Hrant referred. I'll
    try to do two things in the next couple of days: scan that page, and also look
    through the <em>Proef van letteren</em> to see if I can find the design there.
    I'll post the results to a new thread, to avoid rerailing this very nice discussion
    re. Scotch Romans."
  created: '2009-12-27 06:37:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "John --\r\n\r\nI recall Hrant's references to it from many years back. I
    don't think I was able to reconcile with the <em>Proef van letteren</em> then
    either.\r\n\r\nA new thread is a good idea, so as not to derail this Scotch talk
    any further. \r\n\r\nMeanwhile, I may seek out a copy of the 1908 facsimile. "
  created: '2009-12-27 14:07:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I may seek out a copy of the 1908 facsimile.\r\n\r\nI don't think there
    is one (and the original is extremely rare). What John mentioned is the 1978,
    which can be had for ~$300. BTW, although it does have the advantage (for most
    people) of being in English, and IIRC it has some extra history, the printing
    -although fabulous- does not reach the stratospheric quality of the 1908 (especially
    on pages that show fonts of greatly varying sizes).\r\n\r\nBTW if you guys would
    like a scan (600dpi max) of the #48 from the 1908 let me know.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 15:42:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>and IIRC it has some extra history</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Carter not only translated
    Charles Ensched\xE9's original text, he also corrected some things and added extra
    sections resulting from later research (much of it his own). Conveniently, the
    new sections are marked, so one can distinguish Carter's contributions from Ensched\xE9's.\r\n\r\nIdeally,
    one would have both editions."
  created: '2009-12-27 20:14:23'
date: '2009-12-23 16:36:18'
title: 'Scotch Roman: Good Versus Bad'

---
