---
author:
  name: Stephen Coles
  picture: 128126
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/example-diacritical-marks_3780.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
  are these diacritics/characters called? They are commonly used by dictionaries to
  indicate pronunciation and I assumed they were part of the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ipa\">IPA</a>,
  but no.\r\n\r\nTrying to find fonts that include these characters but it's difficult
  to search without knowing the proper name."
comments:
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "You could get in touch with this guy; he is a linguist, and works withall
    kinds of languages.\r\n\r\ninfo[at]jltypes.com"
  created: '2009-12-24 02:52:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The double-oh with the wide breve and\r\nthe red zigzag is called \"Furious
    Unibrow\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 03:23:00'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: 'Unicode: 0\_/0'
  created: '2009-12-24 03:36:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The top four rows are pretty common diacritics found in a wide range of natural
    orthographies. The macron and breve typically indicate, respectively, long and
    short vowel sounds. The diaeresis (double-dot) most commonly indicates that a
    pair of adjacent vowel letters are pronounced separately; the diacritic mark is
    usually applied to the second letter, e.g na\xEFf. [In German and some other languages,
    the double-dot accent repesents a vowel, in this context it is referred to as
    umlaut rather than diaeresis.] As used in dictionary pronunciation guides, these
    diacritics are most like to perform these common functions, since the whole purpose
    of dictionary pronunciation conventions is to be easier for non-specialist readers
    than IPA, which is much more precise and complicated.\r\n\r\nThe circumflex is
    used for a lot of different purposes in various languages, and I'm not sure how
    it would be likely to be used in dictionaries. In a lot of African orthographies,
    it represents a rising-falling tone. In French it indicates that the word used
    to be spelled with an s following this vowel (how's that for etymological spelling
    retention!)\r\n\r\nThe \u014B is usually called <em>eng</em> and represents the
    ng consonant sound as in the English word \u2018sing\u2019.\r\n\r\nI'm guessing
    that the double oo might be used in some situations to indicate the vowel of words
    like \u2018smooth\u2019 (long) and \u2018coup\u2019 (short). [English speakers
    often think of this as a long u, but it is actually a different sound, and the
    true long u is as in \u2018truth\u2019.]\r\n\r\nI've no idea what the slashed
    letters might be used for. Do you have samples of these and the others in actual
    use? It should be possible to deduce their function."
  created: '2009-12-24 06:00:27'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Unfortunately, there's no single pronunciation spelling system for dictionaries;
    every dictionary publisher kind of makes up their own.  You might find [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pronunciation_respelling_for_English|this
    article on pronunciation respelling]] useful.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson already identified
    the characters and diacritics.  Those in the first four rows should all be defined
    in the Unicode Standard as precomposed characters.  I don't believe any of the
    characters below those rows are defined as precomposed characters, except for
    \u0247 (Latin small letter e with stroke, U+0247).  The others would have to be
    made with the help of the combining double macron (U+035E), combining double breve
    (U+035D), combining long solidus overlay (U+0338), and, assuming that thing next
    to the eng is an acute accent and that it's supposed to be over the eng, the combining
    acute accent (U+0301).  Not many commercial fonts support such far-out diacritics,
    but I'm guessing Andron Mega Corpus does.  Tiro Typeworks is also developing some
    fonts which I believe would support these."
  created: '2009-12-24 06:25:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think the question is what are these called <em>collectively</em>.
  created: '2009-12-24 06:46:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "They fall under the broad category of phonetic symbols, and you could always
    be more specific and call them phonetic symbols commonly found in dictionaries
    for English. Each dictionary published in the U.S. seems to adopt its own set
    of ad hoc symbols to indicate pronunciation, although slowly some are adopting
    the IPA. I've seen most of the symbols above in one system or another, although
    I don't believe there is a single system using <em>all</em> of those symbols.
    The slashed characters are baffling, but I suppose they could indicate optional
    omission as in 'Com(p)ton' or vowel reduction as in 'penc(i)l'.\r\n\r\nThe [[International
    Phonetic Alphabet]] is a standardized set of phonetic symbols designed to describe
    the sounds of all natural languages, not just to indicate the pronunciation of
    English. Most dictionaries of English published outside the U.S. nowadays use
    variants of the IPA to show pronunciation.\r\n\r\nSince the symbols you want are
    not part of a standardized system, the dictionaries that use such symbols probably
    use customized versions of fonts if they require uncommon symbols. Nevertheless,
    the letters with circumflex (3rd row) or diaeresis (4th row) will be provided
    with most fonts with good Western language coverage.\r\n\r\nThe macrons (1st row)
    and breves (2nd row) are trickier. A font covering the Baltic languages should
    have most of the macrons (except the 'o'). Scholarly transcriptions of classical
    Greek and Latin, the Hepburn Romanization of Japaenese, and Pinyin for Chinese
    use the macron, although it is hard to find fonts for these purposes. Vietnamese
    uses the breve for 'a', the McCune-Reischauer Romanization of Korean for 'o' and
    'u'. Many fonts include the macron and breve separately though, even if they don't
    have the precomposed forms. Adobe fonts are useful for this, since their EULA
    allows some modification by the user.\r\n\r\nThe eng (1st letter of the 5th row)
    is used in the IPA as well as for some obscure orthographies that are not likely
    to be served by most fonts available. I do not recall seeing the double macron
    and double breve required for 'oo' in any font, though you may try Aric's suggestions.\r\n\r\n<cite>English
    speakers often think of this as a long u, but it is actually a different sound,
    and the true long u is as in \u2018truth\u2019.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs long as we're
    talking about the <em>sound</em>, the vowel in 'smooth' and 'truth' are identical
    for most modern varieties of English, and will be so indicated in dictionaries.
    That is because 'oo' in 'smooth' represents /u\u02D0/ while the 'u' in 'truth'
    represents /ju\u02D0/ (pronounced like 'you'), but most speakers drop the 'y'
    sound if it comes after 'r'. An important exception is Welsh English, which does
    pronounce something like 'tryooth'.\r\n\r\nA better example might be 'hue' (long
    u) and 'Hoo' (long oo), still pronounced differently by most English speakers."
  created: '2009-12-24 10:09:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Adobe fonts are useful for this, since their\r\n> EULA allows some modification
    by the user.\r\n\r\nTheuth bless them. Not too long ago I was commissioned to
    add about 20 special characters for Sanskrit transliteration to Garamond Premier
    Pro. The only limitation was that I couldn't splice into the kerning classes with
    FontLab [at the time].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 15:20:49'
- author:
    name: canvasjoe
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nThis tread has been exciting for me to read because
    it is verifying everything I am studying on my own about American English phonetics.\r\n\r\nStephen
    Cole who started this thread did so as a continuation of our exchange of emails
    regarding a single font that would conveniently contain all the diacritical marks
    that are used by American dictionaries and this for the purpose of teaching phoneme/grapheme
    association to children and adults.\r\n\r\n(Phonemes are the smallest distinct
    sound, eg.  /t/ in tin, and graphemes are the single letters, and even double
    or triple letter combinations that represent the distinct sounds, for example,
    the two letters ph for the /f/ sound or single letter b for the /b/ sound.)\r\n\r\nI
    am a high school science teacher with an interest in American English phonetics.
    I have taught at high schools for over 15 years and the saddest condition of students
    today is many cannot read well (nor spell or write) and therefore lose all interest
    in study. Also content is dummied down to meet their lower skill set.\r\n\r\nI
    have discovered however that the teaching of spelling and reading in some private
    and home based schools is conducted in terms of graphemes/phonemes association
    with greater success then the pedagogical methods for reading used in public school.
    So I am pursuing research in this not only for my own personal skill acquisition
    but also in the hopes of developing an effective curriculum based on this approach.\r\n\r\nI
    am dismayed that educated Americans do not know that there are 44 sounds in our
    language and about 70 common graphemes that represent them. This should be taught
    in grades 1-3.  We are unconscious of the depth and mechanics of our own language.
    If I ask a fellow school teacher how many sounds the letter s makes, they\u2019ll
    answer it makes the /s/ sound (as in small). When I show them it makes 3 other
    sounds, /z/ bells, /zh/ treasure, /sh / sure, as well, they are amused. They have
    never thought of that. We are not taught that in school (at least not in such
    a way that is it retained as common knowledge). Another example, what sounds does
    the grapheme, ea make? Short e as in head, long e as in each, and long a as in
    steak.\r\n\r\nNow you can see where a convenient font with diacritical marks would
    come in the picture.\r\n\r\nIt is true that the diacritical marks that Stephen
    Coles posted at the beginning of this thread are used in the ad hoc, keep-it-simple-for-our-readers,
    Pronunciation Keys of American Dictionaries. These Pronunciation Keys are not
    standardized, and are used as a tool to help readers pronounce the words in the
    dictionary. This is all well and good.\r\n\r\nBut it is also a key to teaching
    reading and spelling. Students are taught to sight-read, that is, look at the
    word and memorize it  like an image, but not to attack or decode it, that is decipher
    the letters into sounds. Word attack, decoding letters into sounds, is poorly
    taught in public education and the consequences of this are indeed unfortunate.
    Children and adults learning English need to know from the beginning what the
    44 sounds are and the 70 common graphemes that represent them.   Students are
    in dire need to sound out words, spell them, know their meaning and comprend the
    written word and write well. The current percentage of failure to teach and learn
    this fundamental skill set is too great. \r\n\r\nAnd what would help immensely
    is a font system that provides the American English diacritical marks. This basic
    font-system would become indespensible and yet such a convenient ready-to-use
    font cannot be found. This can be a highly specialized font that does not need
    capital letters or numbers.  Read on.\r\n\r\nExamples:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/example-1_5702.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nOn
    the left is the English spelling, and on the right are the phonetic representations
    (graphemes) of the sounds that comprise those words.\r\n\r\nEnglish sounds (phonemes)
    are themselves comprised of key graphemes, wherein each of the 44 sounds of the
    Egnlish languge has one KEY grapheme that represents only that sound.  Hence there
    are 44 sounds and 44 key graphemes to represent those sounds. The 44 key graphemes
    are the actual true \u201Cphonetic\u201D alphabet of the English language, but
    we don\u2019t use it. We use instead 26 letters. \r\n\r\nThe 44 key graphemes
    are actually what the American dictionaries attempt to represent in their Pronunciation
    Keys. The Pronunciation Key is usually at the very beginning of the dictionary
    and it usually has 44 symbols (Key Graphemes) that they choose to use to represent
    the words the dictionary defines in a purely phonetic manner. Each sound (phoneme)in
    the word is represented by one key grapheme. Well this would also be a profound
    teaching method in the early grades but there is no font to help teachers and
    students use this diacritical system to learn to spell and read!!\r\n\r\nHere
    is where the strike through slash comes in. Many letters in English are silent.
    In the practice of word attack (decoding sound from letters) students could use
    a strike through slash to assist.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/example-2_4253.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    the above example is a word attack exercise where the not purely-phonetic letters
    are represented with their purely-phonetic key graphemes directly above them (with
    diacritical marks).  This could be just one small part of a method of teaching
    conscious word attack and spelling. Notice the silent letters have a slash through
    them.\r\n\r\nI created these diacritical marks with a \u201Cfont software\u201D
    from linguistsoftware.com. It is a good program. It creates a virtual \u201Csecond
    keyboard\u201D on my computer and I have to manually switch to it to write the
    marks. I was displeased with the software at first and hence called Stephen to
    find alternatives, which I did not. Even Ergonis PopChar was not helpful. But
    later linguistsoft generously offered to customize the software for me at a very
    reasonable price.\r\n\r\nStill I am convinced that a simple font could be made
    that contains all the 44 key graphemes and letter-slashes and any other marks,
    symbols or glyphs needed. This font would not need capital letters or numbers
    or puncutation. Just the key graphemes appropriately placed throughout the keyboard.
    The font would be used for phonetic exercises and in that sense highly customized.\r\n\r\nI
    downloaded the trial version of Font Creator 6.1 to see if I might make such a
    font. But one step at a time. I\u2019m still in the beginning phase of research.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, on the image of the marks at the very beginning of this thread the mark
    next to the \u201Cn\u201D letter is an \u201Caccent\u201D mark to represent the
    stressed syllable in a word. You see them in dictionaries (of course).  The \u201Cn\u201D
    as mentioned in an earlier post represents the /ng/ sound as in sing, sink, or
    anchor.  \r\n\r\nAllow me to make one more example.\r\n\r\nWe use the common grapheme
    i, that is, the letter i, every day. But how many sounds does it represent? Guess...
    \ Four!\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/example-3_6743.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    letter i is a grapheme that represents four phonemes, four distinct sounds. Those
    four sounds (for pedagogical purposes) can be expressed in written form by 4 of
    the 44 key graphemes (as you see above). Our children need to be taught this thoroughly
    and teachers and students need a font to help.\r\n\r\n\r\nJoe Panico\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 18:32:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Joe, this is a fascinating project. Here is my take on it.\r\n\r\nI am inclined
    to agree that students should be taught the idea of phonemes. The major stumbling
    block for English, of course, is that there is no standardized way of expressing
    these phonemes as single graphemes outside of the IPA.\r\n\r\nThe IPA has its
    drawbacks; while the phonemic inventory of English is mostly consistent across
    all the spoken varieties, the actual pronunciation of each of these phonemes varies
    considerably. So a long o, which is a single phoneme in English, may be realized
    in very different ways by those who speak General American (GA), British Received
    Pronunciation (RP), Scottish English, and Australian English. Even within the
    U.S. there are regional differences.\r\n\r\nThat said, for GA and RP, there is
    a general consensus on how to represent the English phonemes in IPA. The long
    o is written /o\u028A/ for GA and /\u0259\u028A/ for RP. There are numerous advantages
    of using an internationally standardized system such as the IPA that we should
    consider before designing yet another set of pronunciation symbols.\r\n\r\nAll
    the modern pronunciation dictionaries of English I know use the IPA, and the Longman
    Pronunciation Dictionary includes helpful spelling-to-sound guides that address
    questions like what sounds are represented by an 's' or 'ea', all the while employing
    IPA.\r\n\r\nThat said, a set of symbols where the grapheme-phoneme connection
    is made more transparent, such as you suggest, may turn out to be advantageous
    for the purpose of teaching students to read.\r\n\r\nOne thing that worries me
    is that this might veer into narrow dogmatism. There is more variety to English
    pronunciation than one may realize, and language is always changing. I see you
    are using the same symbol (u breve) for the vowel in 'cut' and schwa, which will
    seem illogical for RP speakers to whom the vowel qualities are clearly different
    (GA is generally considered to have fewer differentiated vowel phonemes than RP).\r\n\r\nThe
    statement that there are exactly 44 phonemes in American English is highly problematic.
    I refer you to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_phonology|Wikipedia]]:\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    number of speech sounds in English varies from dialect to dialect, and any actual
    tally depends greatly on the interpretation of the researcher doing the counting.
    The Longman Pronunciation Dictionary by John C. Wells, for example, using symbols
    of the International Phonetic Alphabet, denotes 24 consonants and 23 vowels used
    in Received Pronunciation, plus two additional consonants and four additional
    vowels used in foreign words only. For General American, it provides for 25 consonants
    and 19 vowels, with one additional consonant and three additional vowels for foreign
    words. The American Heritage Dictionary, on the other hand, suggests 25 consonants
    and 18 vowels (including r-colored vowels) for American English, plus one consonant
    and five vowels for non-English terms.</cite>"
  created: '2009-12-24 20:41:18'
- author:
    name: canvasjoe
  body: "Jongseong,\r\n\r\nThank you for commenting. Yes I agree with all your thoughts
    and concerns. The language does have many dialects and other than perhaps the
    IPA system there may not be a truly complete representation system.\r\n\r\nMy
    thought is though, we have to start somewhere. In the world of small children
    attending grades 1-3 a simple phonetic system similar to the dictionaries I think
    will suffice. The goal is to get children decoding words and reading and spelling
    well. Whatever phonetic system(s) is effective to that goal should be developed.
    \ Obviously for the early grades the IPA is infeasible but dictionary style system
    seems doable.\r\n\r\nAs was eluded earlier in this thread when a dictionary grapheme
    symbol is pronounced by say a Bostonian the sound may be different than pronounced
    say by a Californian. Regional dialect causes this. Because all the Bostonians
    are pronouncing it the same way\u2026 the system works for them. The same is true
    of the Canadians and Californians. The regional dialects will interpret the symbols
    in terms of their own speech pattern. Now this probably would not work for a linguist
    who is truly mapping the sounds of all languages and dialects and must have two
    different symbols for the two difference pronunciations. \r\n\r\nBut this is irrelevant
    in the immediacy of teaching little Sally how to spell. Everyone in little Sally\u2019s
    world speaks the same dialect.\r\n\r\nThere is a formidable distance between the
    practice of scholarship and practical classroom methodology. However, this distance
    must be bridged with a gradual reduction of perfection, a morphing into a nuts-n-bolts
    system that guides the 7 years olds to grasp phonetic awareness.\r\n\r\nWe are
    not trying to produce the King\u2019s English but rather provide a system for
    students to fully understand the phoneme/grapheme association map - regardless
    of their dialect - for spelling and reading. Their dialect will permeate and determine
    their own use of such a system. And the system must be flexible enough to meet
    the needs of dialects.\r\n\r\nI personally think the schwa is a wasted symbol.
    It denotes that some dialects unstress the vowels to such a degree (that is pronounce
    vowels so quickly without clear enunciation) that the vowels are pronounced as
    almost inaudible little uhs (represented by a schwa).  Fine, that is the effect
    of dialect, however, the word does have a vowel in it so show the vowel, indicate
    its proper pronunciation and then after the child learns the word if the vowels
    gets an inaudible uh in practice of everyday speech, so be it. Dialect will always
    win.  \r\n\r\nThere has to be a phonetic system provided.  It is very likely that
    if I or someone created a font and a curriculum based on phoneme/grapheme association,
    then soon someone else would do the same with their own twist. However, I would
    like to think there could be a general consensus on a flexible and practical grapheme/phoneme
    set. One set, or several sets, not written in stone, but a general standard that
    can be used by teachers, curriculum designers and education material publishers.\r\n\r\nI
    know that the 44 sounds are not a standard. I did not mean to imply they are an
    exact number. In fact I was hoping someone would bring up this fact, as you have.
    \ I\u2019ve heard 45 sounds, 42 sound, etc. Maybe teachers in Canada will say
    there are 47 sounds and those in California 43. Who cares?  Just teach the children
    to read and spell!  The number of sounds doesn\u2019t matter when you consider
    a young struggling student learning to read, a daily phenomena far removed from
    university scholars, linguists and publisher boardrooms. If a system gets Johnny
    to read and spell with confidence before he reaches the 4th grade, there is the
    making of a potential professional, and a happier person. Crime and lack of education
    are correlated.\r\n\r\nRight now reading teachers don\u2019t even know that there
    are 44 (or so) sounds and 70 (or so) common graphemes in our language, let alone
    have acquired a conscious mastery of how they associate. Nor have they a phonetic
    reading curriculum to teach - and - a font system tool with which to teach it.
    The point is something must start now. The font is a smart start. We need the
    tool to even begin.\r\n\r\nI have seen several private groups and individuals
    who developed a phonetic system like this to make a livelihood from it. They make
    their system a proprietary venture. They box themselves in their own world; say
    they are better than anyone else with a similar system. They mistrust anyone who
    wants to learn their system who they feel could copy and alter it and start their
    own proprietary system. The only students who benefit are the few who find them.
    \ A strictly proprietary approach is not the way to go.\r\n\r\nThe phonetic system
    of the English Language as applied to pedagogy must exist within an \u201Copen
    source\u201D, public domain arena. Fonts need to be made. Teachers need to get
    their hands on them, learn the system and pick their own approach to teaching
    it. The boxed proprietary approach will not be sufficient. There does need to
    be some form of industry standard so the variances do not get too far afield.
    This can be done. Maybe teachers in New York will favor a phonetic font system
    over several others to choose from. None of this is primary. Getting it started
    is important. Everything else will develop by the sincerity of the teaching and
    curriculum community.\r\n\r\nThe role of proprietorship does co-exist with an
    industry standard. The market can and must be both public domain an private enterprise.
    \ But proprietary fonts or curriculums, or online software, or phonetic content
    publications can all follow the general guidelines of an industry standard for
    phoneme/grapheme pedagogy.\r\n\r\nI look at like the web. The W3 establishes web
    standards and responsible web developers implement the standards so the industry
    will stay together.  There is plenty of creative expression within the framework
    of the standards.  Privately owned companies comply with the W3 standards and
    their businesses thrive.\r\n\r\nDogmatism is destructive. Teachers are very independent
    and resourceful folk. Give them the tools and let them go to work.\r\n\r\nUniversity
    courses in Teaching Reading must move in this direction. No one even as a font
    to begin the work.\r\n\r\nJoe Panico\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 23:32:09'
- author:
    name: Strabismus
  body: "Wow, you guys are amazing for non-linguists! Good job!\r\nMerry Christmas!"
  created: '2009-12-24 23:59:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Joe:\r\n\r\nGenerally, I think you make many very good points.\r\n\r\nIf
    I may pick one tiny nit, I'll point out that geographic pronunciation differences
    *can* matter with dictionaries, even with people mapping the dictionary to their
    particular pronunciation; the dictionary may conflate two sounds that are differentiated
    in a particular form of the spoken language, or may differentiate two sounds that
    are conflated in a particular spoken form.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-27 01:56:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Dogmatism is destructive. ... University courses in Teaching Reading
    </em>must<em> move in this direction.</em> [My emphasis.]\r\n\r\nThe close conjunction
    of these statements made me laugh.\r\n\r\nJoe, my wife learned to read and write
    in an experimental programme using ITA, which in some respects resembles your
    proposed phonetic spelling system. The problem with such programmes always seems
    to be the transition to standard spelling. Children do learn to read phonetic
    systems very quickly, but unless the transition to standard spelling is better
    managed this early advantage will be quickly lost."
  created: '2009-12-27 06:31:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I personally think the schwa is a wasted symbol. It denotes that some
    dialects unstress the vowels to such a degree (that is pronounce vowels so quickly
    without clear enunciation) that the vowels are pronounced as almost inaudible
    little uhs (represented by a schwa). Fine, that is the effect of dialect, however,
    the word does have a vowel in it so show the vowel, indicate its proper pronunciation
    and then after the child learns the word if the vowels gets an inaudible uh in
    practice of everyday speech, so be it. Dialect will always win.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    schwa has to be considered from the perspective of the English language as a whole.
    Vowel reduction in English occurs to such a degree that several simple vowels
    and diphthongs weaken to produce a single, indistinguishable sound, the schwa.
    This new sound has a vowel quality distinct from any of the \"strong\" vowels.
    You simply cannot claim that the vowel of \"cut\" is the original strong vowel
    that reduces to the schwa in all words that contain the sound.\r\n\r\nNow, in
    General American, the quality of the \"cut\" vowel and the schwa is closer than
    in other major dialects. In addition, the reduction to schwa occurs far more readily
    than in Received Pronunciation, for example. The \"cut\" vowel, when it comes
    in an unstressed syllable, always reduces to the schwa. The effect of all this
    is that to the GA speaker, the \"cut\" vowel and the schwa are pretty much simply
    versions of the same sound that occur in stressed syllables and unstressed syllables
    respectively. The vowel qualities of the GA \"cut\" vowel and the schwa are still
    slightly different, but many Americans don't hear the difference.\r\n\r\nI've
    seen older American dictionaries claim this as well, stating that they cannot
    hear any difference between the \"cut\" vowel and the schwa except for the stress,
    and proceeding to use the same symbol for both sounds.\r\n\r\nBut it is important
    to understand that this is a feature of the American dialect and doesn't apply
    to English as a whole. In fact, in modern RP, the \"cut\" vowel has drifted even
    further from the schwa (from which it already was distinct) to something approaching
    how some Americans would pronounce the first vowel in \"father\".\r\n\r\nIn addition,
    there are minimal pairs that prove the \"cut\" vowel is distinct from the schwa
    for many RP speakers. They distinguish \"unavailable\" and \"an available\" through
    the difference in vowel quality only. GA speakers, who lack this contrast, have
    to stress the \"un\" in \"unavailable\" to make the distinction.\r\n\r\nWelsh
    English is interesting in that it uses a stressed schwa due to the influence of
    the Welsh language which uses that vowel. Listening to the stressed schwa used
    by Welsh or Welsh English speakers will be instructive for GA speakers who have
    trouble hearing the difference between their own \"cut\" vowel and the schwa.\r\n\r\nYour
    statement about the schwa being a wasted symbol makes sense in the context of
    General American. After all, many dictionaries using the IPA such as the Longman
    Pronunciation Dictionary use the same symbols for the \"bit\" vowel and the unstressed
    final vowel in \"roses\", even the actual vowel qualities are slightly different.
    This is because no major variety of English distinguishes between the two vowels
    in the same environment, so they can be seen as versions of the same sound.\r\n\r\nBe
    aware, however, of the limitations of your approach. It doesn't reflect the etymology
    (the schwas in \"alone\", \"computer\", etc. were never pronounced with the \"cut\"
    vowel at any stage of the history of the English language) and it fails to accomodate
    other major varieties of English.\r\n\r\n that as soon as you get outside the
    confines of General American, schwa needs "
  created: '2009-12-27 11:42:19'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Joe, your idea is interesting, but as an academic endeavor it really needs
    to be approached more academically.  Before you worry about fonts, you need to
    do a thorough, graduate-level literature review of the history and current state
    of reading instruction in the United States and other English-speaking countries.
    \ You aren't the first to propose a phonetic orthography for teaching English.
    \ Have previous attempts been demonstrably more successful at teaching people
    to read and write conventional English than methods (phoneme-based or otherwise)
    that begin with normal spelling?  Is it really true that current reading instruction
    eschews phonics?  (As the father of a kindergartner, I can tell you that at my
    son's public school a lot of time is spent on letters and the sounds they make...)
    \ Is it really true that current reading instruction is an utter failure?  If
    so, are there any other possible explanations for the failure besides the nature
    of the orthography or the instructional method?  You owe it to yourself to seek
    out detailed, balanced answers to these questions before you concern yourself
    with developing a special font.  (You also need to conduct a thorough study of
    American phonology and dialectology.  As Thomas Phinney pointed out, there really
    are phonemic differences from dialect to dialect such that materials prepared
    for one particular dialect will be wrong for certain other dialects.  One example:
    in the Western US, \"cot\" and \"caught\" are homophones; in many New England
    dialects, they are not.)\r\n\r\nIf you do determine that reading should be taught
    based on a modified orthography, and if you can back up that determination with
    published evidence, then you can develop your font (which could be done in a day
    or two, assuming you've studied out what symbols should be included) and then
    you should test it rigorously and publish your results in a forum where they will
    undergo stringent peer review.  It's a lot of work--a lot more work than just
    throwing a font together and inflicting it on some poor, unsuspecting child--but
    it's vital if you want to develop the best possible system and have anyone adopt
    it.  If you cut corners, it will only come back to bite you in the long run.  Before
    any university class will move in the direction you suggest, you must convincingly
    demonstrate that your instructional method is more successful at teaching children
    to read conventionally written English than the best current methods (most of
    which presumably begin with conventional spelling).\r\n\r\nI'm skeptical that
    your proposed approach is really the best way forward (although some good solid
    research could convince me otherwise).  If I were working on early reading instruction,
    I'd focus my efforts on educating parents about how they can better help their
    kids learn to read--how the school and home can become better partners in this
    effort.  If a kid who knows the basics of reading spends 10-20 minutes a day practicing
    reading with a supportive adult, in a few years that kid will be an excellent
    reader.  As with anything worth learning, no magical teaching method can replace
    lots and lots of good practice on the part of the learner."
  created: '2009-12-28 06:55:28'
- author:
    name: canvasjoe
  body: "Thanks for the many replies,\r\n\r\nI guess we all have a lot to say about
    phonics. I do appreciate all your ideas.\r\nJohn I looked at the ITA foundation
    alphabet and their choice of graphemes is exactly what I could never recommend:
    \ letters that don\u2019t exist in the English alphabet for a beginner of English.
    (Assuming this is what you referred to  (http://www.itafoundation.org/alphabet.htm)\r\n\r\nOf
    course a student of that grapheme system would have to learn how to apply it to
    real writing. Thirteen of the graphemes used in that system are not used in English.
    Why (would a system) teach them when there are already graphemes for those 13
    sounds that do exist in the English alphabet? To me that is unintuitive.\r\n\r\nAric,
    yes no doubt an academic training in Reading Methods and or Linguistics is a necessary
    step for me to continue this research and share it with others. (I am looking
    at potential grad programs). This type or category of approaching phonics is growing
    and there has been research on it. The Riggs Institute http://www.riggsinst.org/Default.aspx
    is a forerunner of one approach of using what they call explicit phonics. They\u2019re
    teaching it in conjunction with other methods. The University of Arkansas is conducting
    research. I know of other groups. In general there is a growing awareness of the
    need for \u201Cphonetic awareness\u201D programs for reading methods. I\u2019m
    certainly not alone in this.\r\n\r\nAny undertaking like this takes time, and
    research and patience. It is always collaborative and any person who makes some
    advancement does so on the shoulders of the researchers/teachers who contributed
    before them.\r\nHowever, I disagree about the need for an English Phonetic font
    system. A publicly available phonetic font is nothing more than a tool that teachers,
    professors, and curriculum developers could use right now to help them to research
    and develop methods. The need is ripe.\r\n\r\nTeaching phonetic awareness is about
    teaching the 44 sounds, and the 70 graphemes. In that sense it is very basic.
    All dialect issues are filtered-out in the early grade levels. The more I learn
    and integrate English phonetics into my awareness the more I literally see words
    in a new way. I find I instantaneously see words phonetically instead of seeing
    words by unconscious sight-recognition. I love it.\r\n\r\nNo one method is going
    to be the only method, or the best method, for all readers. Again, I emphasize
    that teachers need the flexibility to use phonetic systems in the creative ways
    they see fit. They are the ones in the trenches.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the vibes are
    a little heated in this thread. That\u2019s good. We all have valuable insight.\r\n\r\nThank
    you, Jongseong and everyone for your replies. This has been most helpful.\r\n\r\nJoe\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 21:47:04'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Joe, it sounds like you have a good idea what you're getting into.  I went
    back and looked at your initial post more closely and realized that you're not
    proposing to create texts entirely from phonetic respellings, which makes me much
    more comfortable with your proposed method.\r\n\r\nThere are actually a number
    of free fonts out there that can (more or less) produce the kinds of characters
    you're interested in.  (i with a slash seems to be problematic, but I suppose
    you could fix that problem by creating a ligature or something.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diacritics_3932.png]\r\n\r\nSince
    these fonts use the standard Unicode code points for these characters (which I
    think is a good thing), you'd need to create a custom keyboard layout for producing
    them.  This can be done for Windows using the [[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/bb964665.aspx|Microsoft
    Keyboard Layout Creator]] and for Mac using the web applet at [[http://wordherd.com/keyboards/|Alex
    Eulenberg's website]] (the Mac one can also be done by hand as an XML file, but
    who wants to do that?).  In both cases, you can give other people copies of the
    keyboard layouts you create.\r\n\r\nYou'll want to think long and hard about how
    to make it convenient to use your system.  Typesetting stacked text is no walk
    in the park, and I imagine a lot of elementary school teachers could be put off
    by that kind of thing.\r\n\r\nFrom a pedagogical perspective, I think you also
    want to consider the difference between letters which serve a diacritic purpose
    and letters which are just exceptional.  For example, the e in <em>wide</em> and
    <em>ounce</em>, the a in <em>boat</em> and <em>beam</em>, and the u in <em>guess</em>
    are not simply silent letters; e and a alter the sound of the preceding vowel,
    and u prevents the g from making a j sound.  On the other hand, letters like b
    in <em>limb</em> or gh in <em>through</em> are just historic artifacts with no
    bearing on the word's (modern) pronunciation.  Simply marking all of these letters
    as silent obscures the fact that some of these letters give us hints on how to
    pronounce the word while others don't.  I don't know how you want to handle that,
    but I think it's worth thinking about.  If you need more symbols, you potentially
    have the whole set of [[http://unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0300.pdf|combining diacritic
    marks]] at your disposal.  Fonts that can produce a double breve can probably
    produce most or all of these.\r\n\r\nBest of luck to you."
  created: '2009-12-29 20:01:53'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: From the discussion on "silent" letters which serve a diacritic purpose, I
    should add that the e in <em>ounce</em> alters the sound of the letter c.
  created: '2009-12-30 22:34:25'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "Joe, the easiest way to make a custom keyboard layout on a Mac for your project
    is with Ukelele:\r\n\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/ukelele\r\n\r\nI've made lots of
    them this way in case you need any help.\r\n\r\nI think everything you require
    is already in the available fonts, it's really the keyboard which matters, so
    you can easily access what is in the fonts everyone already has on their machines.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it would make sense to devise new characters, as they will never get
    into Unicode and thus never be generally available in fonts like IPA and other
    symbols are.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 22:41:01'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "Tom, Ukelele looks like a really nice tool, and I defer to your superior
    Mac knowledge.  However, if anybody needs to create a Mac keyboard but doesn't
    own a Mac, the Eulenberg site is a viable option (among others, probably).  By
    the way, kudos to the folks at Apple for using an XML-based format, which makes
    that possible.\r\n\r\nI don't know if your comment on devising new characters
    is a response to my suggestion of creating a ligature, but let me clarify that
    suggestion in case it wasn't sufficiently self-explanatory.  OpenType provides
    a way to specify that if two specific code points (say, U+0069 U+0338) occur in
    sequence, they should be rendered by a single precomposed character.  My suggestion
    was to modify a font like Charis SIL to include a precomposed i with combining
    solidus overlay, in order to visually center the solidus on the i and assure proper
    sidebearings.  The Unicode representation of the i with solidus would be no different
    whether one uses this modified font or some other font, but if one uses the modified
    font, the rendering might be more satisfactory.\r\n\r\nThis kind of thing can
    be done in FontForge, if you prefer to pay for your font editing software with
    time, effort, and mental anguish rather than money."
  created: '2009-12-31 07:44:43'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "Aric -- good point about not needing a Mac with the Eulenberg site (though
    you really need to test these layouts on a Mac before distributing them, as it
    is so easy to make errors).  My comment wasn't actually aimed at your ligature
    suggestion, but your explanation of how one can get better display of i plus solidus
    without creating a new \"character\" is of course correct.  Hopefully OS X support
    for OpenType features is now good enough for that to work right too.\r\n\r\nPS
    \ The i plus solidus is not bad using the OS X system font Lucida Grande, but
    the solidus position also varies with the character it is applied to.\r\n\r\n[[http://homepage.mac.com/thgewecke/bepri.jpg]]"
  created: '2009-12-31 15:19:55'
date: '2009-12-24 02:34:56'
node_type: forum
title: Pronunciation Characters

---
