---
author:
  name: kosal
  picture: 109775
body: "Hello all! As we all know, type design can be a very lonely venture. Typophile
  is an awesome cure for that. I've been posting to the much-appreciated Critique
  forum every now and then and got a good amount of help. But, I think I've reached
  a point of self-learning\r\nsaturation, and where message board help isn't enough.
  I feel like I'd benefit from personal guidance. And still, I'd like to use the internet
  to my advantage. \r\n\r\nSo, with the holiday spirit in the air, I'd like to ask
  if any wise vets out there would be willing to coach a motivated novice. All I'm
  asking for is to be able to send a few e-mails back and forth each month to discuss
  detailed improvements to my type design. I'm particulary interested in developing
  a better eye for the nuances that crate good text faces. I've been doing display
  fonts for a while and would like to eventually transition into making text type.\r\n\r\nIf
  I had the resources to pursue a professional degree in type design, I would. But
  it's not possible for me right now. If anyone is interested in helping me out, please
  send a private message. Hopefully, I'm not overstepping any bounds by asking. Thanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Have you considered Reading?\r\nhttp://www.typefacedesign.org/2009/\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Typophile rules, but have you also been reading type books and analyzing the work
    of others? I'm self-taught, and I've been online for over a decade, but I don't
    feel saturated. Maybe I'm just less absorbent though.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 21:07:17'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: ">>>Maybe I\u2019m just less absorbent though. :-)\r\n\r\nMore the other way
    around, Hrant, you just ooze \u2018sharing\u2019!\r\nHappy X-mas to you and your
    loved ones!\r\n(Just had a great pre-Xmas dinner with my parents, kids etc.\u2026)\r\n\r\n.
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-12-24 21:22:39'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: hrant, as awesome as it sounds, I don't have the means to pursue Reading.
    I've read Letters of Credit and Doyald Young's Fonts & Logos.
  created: '2009-12-24 22:10:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There are other books you should try, notably Anatomy of a Typeface. It might
    be helpful if you put some sample of your work somewhere that folks could get
    an idea of what level you're at now... preferably an actual font, if not that
    say a lower-case \"a\" shown in a font editor such that the outline construction
    is clear, as well as a PDF sample of the font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-24 22:30:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those books are a great start. But the iceberg is much much larger!  :-)\r\n\r\n(Bert,
    you're too kind. And not just on Xmas.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-24 22:33:36'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: "Thomas,\r\nThanks for the suggestions. Here's <a href=\"http://salsen.com/mylevel.pdf\">a
    pdf of what I'm currently on</a> in case anyone's interested.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-26 01:50:14'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I took a look at your pdf, (and first: nice work). You should fatten your
    dot for i. Using that with 'i macron', you get in trouble.\r\n\r\nYour overshoot
    of (I guess two or three units) does not work. With such wide design, you should
    keep all glyphs in x-height.\r\n\r\nWith ink trapping, have you considered putting
    two control points instead of one when it gets really tight?\r\n\r\nYour 'A' looks
    too narrow, and 'S' too wide."
  created: '2009-12-26 02:31:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Tomi is right about the overshoot, I think. At least when you have flat sections
    the way you currently do.\r\n\r\nOn the \"a\" I'm thinking the curves in the bowl
    of the \"a\" don't work well with the very short straight sections. I'd either
    eliminate the straight elements or increase their length.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, this
    certainly gives a fair idea of what level of work you're doing, so if anybody
    feels like volunteering to give you feedback offline, they can. You might also
    consider using the critique forum here, of course.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-26 19:16:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Your [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tittle|tittles]] look like [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macron|macrons]]
    to me - how would it look to make them match the stem width (rather than the serif
    width) of i and j?\r\n\r\nI second the idea of posting this to the critique forum
    here. I've found it can be a very helpful place at this level."
  created: '2009-12-26 19:21:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I recommend that you befriend at least one of the NYC type designers and
    take a train in now and then to get feedback in person. One-on-one discussions
    of my fonts with the people here have dramatically improved my work. It\u2019s
    allowed me to make huge leaps in the quality and complexity of my type, and the
    family I\u2019m finishing now is an incredible improvement over my work so far."
  created: '2009-12-26 19:36:16'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: Exactly James, that's really what I'm aiming to find with this :)
  created: '2009-12-26 20:32:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If that\u2019s your goal you\u2019ll need to be persistent and contact people
    directly. Or if you can get off work early once a week for a semester take James
    Montalbano\u2019s type design class at SVA. He\u2019s a great teacher."
  created: '2009-12-26 21:08:28'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Thanks for that JamesP. I think everyone made a lot of progress in the SVA
    Type Design class.\r\n\r\nKoleslaw, asking someone to be your personal type critic
    is an awful lot to ask. There is a lot of work involved in critiquing a typeface
    design. If it is possible to take my SVA class on Tuesday nights I would recommend
    it. Not only would you have me picking apart everything you did, but the other
    students in the class add a lot to the critique as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nJames M"
  created: '2009-12-26 21:58:32'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: "I'm sure taking your class would be well worth it\u2014too bad I don't live
    near NY. As some of you mentioned, a good book could be the intermediate step
    I need aside from the crit board. It's just that the ones I've seen are about
    the history and typographic terms that I'm familiar with already. I guess i''ll
    search through previous posts to find a more advanced book than the ones I've
    seen.  "
  created: '2009-12-26 22:33:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Whether you have a formal teacher or not, good books certainly help a lot,
    and you can't really be satisfied just with those two. One good recent book is
    Cheng's \"Designing Type\".\r\n\r\nBTW, there is one other way: apprenticeship.
    Some accomplished type designers would be open to exchanging their insight/critique
    for you to do some of the more menial tasks in type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-26 22:50:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Some accomplished type designers would be open to exchanging their
    insight/critique for you to do some of the more menial tasks in type design.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    kind of thing doesn\u2019t happen much anymore. I looked into this and it\u2019s
    really hard to get any kind of type apprenticeship/internship unless you\u2019ve
    got a Reading/KaBK degree, already released a few type families, or took a type
    design class at one of the American schools where its taught by a type designer."
  created: '2009-12-26 23:07:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've often thought I'd love to take on an apprentice at a more middling level
    (pre-Reading/KABK). I just have to figure out how to convince folks at my current
    job that we need to develop some of our own typefaces.  :)\r\n\r\n(Note: Don't
    hold your breath on this one.)\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-27 01:39:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>One good recent book is Cheng\u2019s \u201CDesigning Type\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    cannot agree here. Not a very good book IMO.\r\n\r\nI also think that apprenticeships
    are few and far between. I teach at SVA and I'll be teaching undergraduate type
    design at Parsons this Spring, but I personally would never take on an intern
    or apprentice. Other type designers may do this, but I cannot afford to take the
    time. I have to work very fast, and I work alone."
  created: '2009-12-27 01:50:25'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Read "Counterpunch". That will teach you oodles. Worked with me.
  created: '2009-12-27 02:13:33'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: And just went through your sample again, and would revise 'v', 's', 'x' 'two'
    and four'.
  created: '2009-12-27 02:23:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: One more thing to keep in mind Koleslaw. Getting a critique is a delicate
    business. The person giving the critique is placing their aesthetic judgement
    on your work, and can, conscientiously or not, try to force your work into their
    narrow view of what is correct. Be careful.
  created: '2009-12-27 13:21:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "My 2 cents: Don't let not having a dedicated mentor/teacher \u2014no doubt,
    a pretty awesome concept\u2014 discourage you. \r\nFWIW, I've had a bit of formal
    education in type design (a part-time postgrad class) but during that same time
    I actually learned more here +  through books + at a couple of type conferences
    maybe. There's so much material out there, so much to learn; so much type to study.
    Libraries to dig through. Even just reading through the archives here reveals
    a ton of concepts to explore, and things to learn about. Sink the teeth of your
    curiosity into every bit you can get! It's hard, and requires more initiative,
    but it sure can work."
  created: '2009-12-27 13:51:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Kosal -- Another suggestion to help your development: Consider attending
    one of the annual type conferences. Many provide workshops, which can give a shot
    in the arm. More importantly, these are good places to meet and establish professional
    relationships with other type folks, which could lead to the kind of one-on-one
    critiques you seek. \r\n\r\nIn the U.S., [[http://www.typecon.com|TypeCon]] may
    be the easiest to get to (in Los Angeles next August). But there's also [[http://www.typoberlin.de/2010/index.php/1/2|TypoBerlin]]
    (in Berlin next May) and [[http://www.atypi.org/|ATypI]] (in Dublin next September)."
  created: '2009-12-27 14:03:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The person giving the critique is placing their aesthetic judgement on\r\n>
    your work, and can, conscientiously or not, try to force your work into\r\n> their
    narrow view of what is correct.\r\n\r\nThis is a very good point. And usually
    it's done quite consciously! I remember when I showed an early version of Harrier
    to a Famous Type Designer, he wanted to wipe out everything that I had tried to
    make special in it. So it's important to judiciously filter out certain things
    and keep what you really need (a tricky business for sure). Also, the best critic
    tries to get inside the subject's head and help <em>him</em> get to where he wants
    to go.\r\n\r\nThe conference idea is solid. For one thing\r\nyou can get quick
    crits from experts there.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/4070517923\r\nAnd
    TypeCon LA is going to rule.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 15:56:13'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I heartly agree with James and Nina. Do keep in mind that it is you \u2013and
    only you\u2013 that will have to finish this design. You've made decisions that
    resulted in what you've come up with in your latest PDF. It shows that you yourself
    are capable of determining design directions that will eventually lead to a finished
    font the way you meant it to be. If you would like me to give you a *personal*
    type critique, do contact me[at]exljbris[dot]com."
  created: '2009-12-27 16:01:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On the one hand, I agree with James, Nina, and Jos. In my own Hypatia Sans
    there are a number of elements that reflect the distinctive influence of Robert
    Slimbach, most notably the lowercase \"y.\"\r\n\r\nThat being said, it was hard
    for me in the early days of being a journeyman type designer to figure out  when
    an input from Rob reflected that there was something truly \"wrong\" with a letterform,
    or if it just meant that he would do it differently. Most often there would definitely
    be something wrong, but of course Rob's suggestion would reflect how *he* would
    tackle it.\r\n\r\nMind you, in my case, the main thing I was learning was more
    harmonious curves and other optical subtleties, which really do have something
    of the absolute about them. IMO, anyway.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-29 03:42:20'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "I think someone could make a killing offering an _affordable_ , but fairly
    intensive type design course. All the options I know of involve a lengthy time
    commitment and/or are very expensive. Going to Reading would require most people
    to leave their job and take out a loan. Typecamp seems to range from $2000 to
    $2400, plus travel costs. Typecon offers affordable instructional sessions, but
    the longest ones are just day long. I'm not doubting the value of these things,
    but for a lot of people, they're just not an option. \r\n\r\nI'm sure there are
    a lot of people (like me) who wold love to go to Reading, but don't want to quit
    their jobs, and would love to spend a week learning some of the finer points of
    designing type without having to take out a loan. "
  created: '2009-12-29 04:00:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Another route is to be on your own until you do something good enough to
    sell to a foundry. Then seek a foundry that will provide some guidance and input,
    or even hire you. \r\n\r\nBy \"on your own\" I mean reading books and really studying
    typefaces in FontLab and getting critiques and going to conferences and drawing,
    drawing, drawing--always in context of course.   "
  created: '2009-12-29 04:07:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jonathan, the type design course I've taught (quite sporadically*) at ArtCenter
    is 14 evenings, 3 hours per session. It costs just over $700. But you have to
    be able to get yourself to Pasadena... I think the cost might be on the high side,
    but the duration is quite good; just a bit longer would be ideal. However, possibly
    tellingly, all my students so far have at most only dabbled in type design when
    they start the course.\r\n\r\n* I need some minimum enrollment to make\r\nit click
    each time. This economy doesn't help...\r\n\r\nJames has done a better job with
    a similar situation - he can shed his own light on the issues of cost and duration.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 04:23:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Jonathan, watch the SVA summer workshop offerings. They\u2019ve done one-week
    intensive workshops in the past, and I know that one is in the works for summer
    2010."
  created: '2009-12-29 04:23:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Jonathan,\r\n\r\nI doubt anyone is going to make a killing offering any kind
    of type design course. \r\n\r\nThe one I teach at SVA Continuing Ed is 12 weeks
    at 3 hours per session for $470. I don't think anyone could teach a course for
    much less than that. Last semester I had 6 students, the bare minimum for keeping
    the course open. So far there is one person signed up for next semester.\r\n\r\nThe
    Typophile bubble may be at play here. Learning how to design type may be of great
    interest to the small group of folks who regularly read Typophile, but I don't
    think it's much of a draw to the general design population. They're more interested
    in acquiring type then they are learning to create it.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 14:17:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If there is enough interest, I could teach a type design course under the
    auspices of the TDC. It could be a long weekend in NYC, Friday Saturday Sunday.
    Or perhaps a week long during the summer. I would have to run this by Carol Wahler
    and Charles Nix and the board, but I think they would go for it. What it would
    cost I cannot say, but it would probably be under $600. As a TDC member I paid
    around $470 for the Arabic Type Seminar which was 2 days, I'm sure it could be
    priced in this range.\r\n\r\nLet me know who is interested and I'll set the ball
    in motion.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2009-12-29 14:25:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: If anyone is interested in the SVA type design course here is the [[http://www.schoolofvisualarts.edu/ceCourseFinder/app?sDay=0&sTime=0&sLoc=&sDept=&sCourse=&sInstructor=montalbano&sKeyword=|registration
    info]].
  created: '2009-12-29 14:42:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, did you ever get anywhere with that guy\r\nwho was encouraging you
    to set up a remote course?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 15:39:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting thread. \r\n\r\nPretty much all I've learned about type design
    has come from the forums here, plus a very few books and some online research.
    Still, I would like to learn more and have thought about the Reading course from
    time to time, both for its technical and social aspects. However, as Jonathan
    rightly points out above, I wouldn't be in a position to stop working for a year.
    I guess it boils down to how serious you are about studying \u2014 I'm only a
    hobbyist and learning at my own pace suits me for now. I'm very grateful for the
    crit board here.\r\n\r\nI hope to come along to some of 2010's type conferences
    too :D"
  created: '2009-12-29 16:03:21'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "The technology for on-line instruction is very interesting, and I think I
    will be using it in the next few years. I just need some time to fully explore
    it. \r\n\r\nThe software I looked at allows for all the things that would go on
    in a live classroom. It's free for two units, but needs to be licensed for more
    than that number.\r\n\r\nI don't know if it something I convince an institution
    to invest in, or if I go ahead and do it by myself and offer the courses independently
    of an institution. Both approaches have advantages and disadvantages."
  created: '2009-12-29 16:14:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>The software I looked at allows for all the things that would go on in
    a live classroom. It\u2019s free for two units, but needs to be licensed for more
    than that number.</em>\r\n\r\nI wonder if the free [[http://moodle.org/about/|Moodle]]
    is the kind of thing you're talking about."
  created: '2009-12-29 16:25:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I see that [[https://www2.gotomeeting.com/?Portal=www.gotomeeting.com|go
    to meeting]], which they advertise a lot, is free for 30 days, for use with up
    to 15 people. You can share screens and talk on the phone in a conference call
    at the same time. So that would work. \r\n\r\nYou could also use skype at the
    same time, on another screen, and get visuals of each other. \r\n\r\nThere must
    be integrated software that can put you in one window and the shared screen in
    another, but I haven't looked further.  \r\n\r\nChristian Schwartz often designs
    type with collaborators abroad, so I suspect he can tell you good solutions for
    doing this. "
  created: '2009-12-29 18:29:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Actually, this would be great for more advanced technical stuff as well. Maybe
    FontLab would be interested in sponsoring something?
  created: '2009-12-29 18:31:04'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I've got a bit of experience in this area ... I create online courses for
    a living as an instructional designer at an Ontario community college.\r\n\r\nThere
    are three software tools we use (all have competitors). One is Elluminate, which
    allows real-time conferencing. The beauty of this is that it allows up to 24 students
    and a teacher (more with a higher licence) to meet and discuss things. As mentioned,
    the instructor can share software on his computer, or allow a student to share
    his software. This means the student can _do_ the thing that s/he is having trouble
    with, and the instructor can see what the problem is, usually instantly if it
    is a rookie mistake.\r\n\r\nTheoretically all classes could be done with this
    software, but in fact I only recommend it for an initial meeting, and for remedial
    help. The reason is that the biggest benefit of online instruction is the ability
    to work to your own schedule, and having a fixed meeting time elliminates this.
    (The software does allow a session to be recorded, which means those who can't
    make the session can watch the replay, and also this means that if a student is
    having trouble with a point that last year's class also had trouble with, the
    teacher has them watch the tape of last years remedial, and  only has another
    one if they still have trouble.)\r\n\r\nThe second key piece of software we use
    is something called Captivate. This allows you to build tutorials where your computer
    screen is recorded, along with your voice (and any annotations you want to add
    to the screen later). This software, or something similar, is what they use to
    do the Lynda.com tutorials, if you are familiar with those.\r\n\r\nFinally, you
    need a learning management system. We use Angel, although WebCT, Blackboard, and
    Desire2Learn are commercial competitors, and Moodle and Sakai are the open source
    alternatives. These are course management tools and handle internal email, testing
    and marks, and holding the files. If you are working with a college or university,
    they should have one of these and will give you a course shell. If not, and you
    have strong software skills (can set up a server, for instance) then Moodle will
    work for you.\r\n\r\n(Thanks to hrant for pointing this thread out to me ... I've
    been off this week ... it is rough working in education ... and not following
    the threads)."
  created: '2009-12-30 16:16:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for sharing your expertise, Don. That is very informative. \r\n\r\nAre
    any of these suitable for recording conference presentations also--with simultaneous
    windows for the presenter and slides?"
  created: '2009-12-30 16:31:31'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Well, Elluminate does have a function so that a video of the presenter can
    be seen, generally a face shot. But the software does not seem to be designed
    for recording conference type presentations. \r\n\r\nCamtasia could easily record
    a presentation screen, though, and another camera could record a presenter. Then
    it would be fairly trivial to marry the two together in Premiere or something."
  created: '2009-12-31 20:29:34'
date: '2009-12-24 19:19:56'
node_type: forum
title: Call for a Personal Type Critic

---
