---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "At the Monotype website\r\n\r\nwww.fonts.com/Legal/MI-EULA.htm\r\n\r\nwe read
  in section 15 of the Monotype EULA:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"You agree not to adapt, modify,
  alter, translate, convert, or otherwise change the Font Software...\"</strong>\r\n\r\nAfter
  having bought a TrueType font at this website, do you commit an infringement, if
  you convert this TTF font to a PostScript Type 1 font?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@uli\r\n\r\nAFAIK - there is a distinct difference between what the copyright
    laws and copyright case law might or might not define as infringement and what
    the contract laws that apply to the EULA agreement might or might not allow you
    to do.\r\n\r\nAll I can advise is that if you don't like this particular provision
    of the contract, either ask them to change it before you buy or buy elsewhere.
    There's no law I know of that says you have to accept the terms of a non-negotiated
    contract.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 18:41:40'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: '[tracking]'
  created: '2009-12-27 19:04:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That would clearly be an infringement. Even just opening the font in\r\nan
    editor and not saving anything out is usually technically verboten.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 19:44:59'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Fortunately there aren't really any good reasons these days to convert a font
    from TrueType to PostScript. Correct me if I'm wrong.
  created: '2009-12-27 19:52:47'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Fink:\r\n\r\n> <cite>All I can advise is that if you don\u2019t like
    this particular provision of the contract, either ask them to change it before
    you buy or buy elsewhere</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would be no solution, as \"derivative
    works\" are forbidden by most EULAs.\r\n\r\nMr. Coles:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Fortunately
    there aren\u2019t really any good reasons these days to convert a font from TrueType
    to PostScript. Correct me if I\u2019m wrong</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are wrong. There
    are millions of people, who convert TrueType to PostScript."
  created: '2009-12-27 20:59:24'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Papazian:\r\n\r\n> <cite>That would clearly be an infringement</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    this were true, then millions of people would commit infringements.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 21:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wrong, billions.\r\n\r\nHave you been on US freeways? People who\r\ndrive
    at the speed limit get hit from behind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 21:06:00'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> You are wrong. There are millions of people, who convert TrueType to PostScript.\r\n\r\nThey
    might do it, but why?"
  created: '2009-12-27 22:03:34'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Stephen\r\n\r\n<cite>Fortunately there aren\u2019t really any good reasons
    these days to convert a font from TrueType to PostScript. Correct me if I\u2019m
    wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\n1. A well hinted PostScript font is better than a badly hinted
    TrueType font. And it is easier to hint a PostScript font.\r\n\r\n2. If you have
    two different formats in a document, which you print, I think, that the printer
    has to convert one of them. I trust more in FontLab than in my printer driver.\r\n\r\nProbably
    there are more reasons.\r\n\r\n@ Uli\r\n\r\n<cite>If this were true, then millions
    of people would commit infringements.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Me for example. I give
    a f*** in those ridiculous restrictions. If there are bugs in fonts, that I can
    easily fix by myself, I fix them. In case of TT-PS-conversions, I ask the foundry
    for a PS version, because the conversion from PS to TT is lossy and most typeface
    designers draw the outlines in PS modus. And in case of PS-TT-conversions I would
    ask the foundry, because I am able to hint a PS font, but not a TT font, at least
    not in a high quality.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 22:36:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Internally, I'm with Arno; I harbor no qualms when I open up, mess with,
    and output any font for my own use. But I won't take on a commission that involves
    violating a EULA. Being in the font biz is why I draw the line there. Not being
    an officer of the law however, I have no issue with carving up traffic like a
    hot knife through butter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 22:45:57'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nUh, with web fonts there is a great need to convert OTF to TTF.
    Internet Explorer can't handle OTF. This is a situation that will go on for years.\r\n\r\nI
    really can't predict about TTF to OTF conversions but OTF to TTF will happen on
    a big scale.\r\nIt's a sure bet.\r\n\r\nRegards, \r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2009-12-28 04:23:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>Internally, I\u2019m with Arno; I harbor no qualms when I open up,
    mess with, and output any font for my own use. But I won\u2019t take on a commission
    that involves violating a EULA.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou completely misunderstood me.
    I did not think of the few nerds who use font editors. I thought of the millions
    of ordinary people, who use Microsoft's Word and Adobe's Acrobat.\r\n\r\n<strong>Experiment
    1</strong>\r\n\r\nOpen Word, type the letter \"A\" and mark it up with the TTF
    font \"Palatino\" supplied with Windows, but also purchasable at the Monotype
    website. Then select Acrobat and convert this Word file to a PDF file. The glyph
    of the letter \"A\" contained in this PDF file will be encrypted by this hex string:\r\n\r\n<cite>adff0000063a0d948415829305bc07949305bc8baa8e998f089990989396\r\n98089698a1b6acd308f4f77805f7a5f8fd05bef70dbef70dbef70d08cc06\r\nf840fe8205c4fb1a059c659e62a15e08a05e9a7194830893839585988608\r\n9787a688b68b089383055a0783830545904b8d528b08fb0288fb0389fb03\r\n8908839305bc07939305d68cb98e9e90089e9094978b9d088b99869f82a3\r\n08fb13f7c805fcd406fb01fb9705785d81698b76088b7a957f9d83089d83\r\nb886d58b089483055a078383053490408d498b08428b40894086088b06f8\r\n5ef8c115f88e06fb8ff8f105fb93fcf105090e</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    this is not the TrueType glyph of Palatino \"A\". It is a PostScript Type 1 glyph
    of Palatino \"A\". Adobe's Acrobat ignored the Monotype EULA and the US Copyright
    Law and converted this TTF font to a PostScript Type 1 font.\r\n\r\nThis means
    that you would have committed a copyright infringement and/or a contractual EULA
    infringement, because the Monotype EULA stipulates: \u201CYou agree not to adapt,
    modify, alter, translate, convert, or otherwise change the Font Software, or to
    create Derivative Works from Font Software or any portion thereof.\u201D\r\n\r\n<strong>Experiment
    2</strong>\r\n\r\nOpen Word, type the letter \"A\" three times and mark them up
    with the TTF font \"Palatino\", and then select the character options \"Outline\",
    \"Shaded\" and \"Relief\". In this way, Microsoft Word generates derivative versions
    of the Palatino \"A\". The result will look like this\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/pala-outline.pdf\r\n\r\nThis
    means that you would have committed a copyright infringement and/or a contractual
    EULA infringement, because the Monotype EULA stipulates: \u201CYou agree not to
    adapt, modify, alter, translate, convert, or otherwise change the Font Software,
    or to create Derivative Works from Font Software or any portion thereof.\u201D\r\n\r\nIf
    fonts were \"Font Software\", I say IF, which means, IF fonts were computer programs
    in the sense of the US Copyright Law, then millions of Americans would commit
    copyright infringements by using word processing programs and by creating PDF
    files.\r\n\r\nIf fonts were \"Font Software\", then thousands of Monotype customers
    who bought TrueType fonts and who signed this bizarre Monotype EULA would commit
    EULA infringements by using these TrueType fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 08:00:33'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: Why not take this up with Monotype rather than the court of public opinion?
  created: '2009-12-28 08:51:45'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Why not take this up with Monotype rather than the court of public opinion?\r\n\r\nMonotype's
    EULA is only an example. The same applies to Linotype, Ascender, Berthold, T.26,
    Letterhead, Typotheque, Underware, etc. etc. etc.\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 09:29:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uli, if Monotype doesn't mind, take a hint.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 15:35:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>IF and only IF</strong> fonts were copyrightable \"software\" or
    copyrightable \"computer programs\", then it would be forbidden by the US Copyright
    Law \"to create Derivative Works from Font Software or any portion thereof\",
    as claimed in the Monotype EULA and many other font \"software\" EULAs.\r\n\r\n<strong>IF</strong>
    fonts were copyrightable \"software\" or \"computer programs\", then it would
    be forbidden to convert fonts from one format (e.g. TT) to another format (e.g
    T1).\r\n\r\n<strong>IF</strong> fonts were copyrightable \"software\" or \"computer
    programs\", then Microsoft and Adobe would be the biggest criminal offenders of
    copyright worldwide due to the millions of criminal font conversions done automatically
    for millions of computer users worldwide. Examples:\r\n\r\nWindows NT automatically
    converted T1 fonts to TT fonts. Microsoft did not ask the millions of Windows
    NT users, whether they wanted to commit the criminal offense of copyright infringement,
    but Microsoft automatically committed these copyright crimes for computer users
    worldwide, <strong>IF and only IF</strong> fonts were copyrightable \"software\"
    or \"computer programs\".\r\n\r\nAnd Adobe committing infringements in the opposite
    direction from TT to T1 does not ask the millions of Acrobat users, whether they
    want to commit the criminal offense of copyright infringement, but Adobe automatically
    commits these copyright crimes for computer users worldwide, <strong>IF and only
    IF</strong> fonts were copyrightable \"software\" or \"computer programs\".\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 09:25:54'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "I think you would have a very difficult time establishing to a judge's satisfaction
    that computer fonts are not software as defined by US law.  The law is very broad
    in this respect:\r\n\r\n<cite>A \u201Ccomputer program\u201D is a set of statements
    or instructions to be used directly or indirectly in a computer in order to bring
    about a certain result.</cite> (US Code, Title 17, Chapter 1, Section 101)\r\n\r\nI
    <em>don't</em> think Microsoft and Adobe would have a difficult time demonstrating
    that the inner workings of Windows NT and Acrobat violate neither the spirit nor
    the letter of the EULAs in question and that in any case Microsoft and Adobe should
    be held harmless."
  created: '2009-12-29 11:01:30'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\nI think, that you mess up EULA with copyright laws. With regard
    to the question, whether fonts are software or not, I partly agree: If all fonts
    are software, then any information, that can be stored on a computer, is likewise
    software \u2013 bitmaps, vector graphics, movies, music, texts and so on. That
    would be absurd. But how about the layout features of OpenType fonts? Aren\u2019t
    they programs? And if the features are programs, are those OTF, that contain layout
    features, then programs likewise? I would say, there are not, but they are software.
    But how shall the user decide, which OTF are software? OTF don\u2019t contain
    layout features necessarily."
  created: '2009-12-29 11:14:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aric:\r\n\r\n> <cite>in any case Microsoft and Adobe should be held harmless</cite>\r\n\r\nAre
    there any other companies which, in your opinion, are above the law and should
    be granted immunity from prosecution?\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 12:49:05'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Windows NT automatically converted T1 fonts to TT fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    did not know that. But I remember, that I was not able to print Type1 in the same
    quality anymore, when I switched from Windows 98 to Windows XP, because my inkjet
    had no PS abilities. Does anybody know, whether Windows 98 also has internally
    converted Type1 to TrueType? And if, does anybody know, where it is documented?"
  created: '2009-12-29 13:45:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Does anybody know, whether Windows 98 also has internally converted Type1
    to TrueType?\r\n\r\nNo. (I still have Win 98 on one of my HD partitions.)"
  created: '2009-12-29 14:30:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@uli, @aric, @arno, @all,\r\n\r\nTo an extremely large degree, the \"law\"
    regarding software as copyright and EULAs, which are really a part of contract
    law, is being made up by judges in the courts because the legislated law is inadequate,
    insanely complex, and in parts, vague. Perhaps this is for the best because in
    the US Congress, at least, you can bet the industries dependent upon copyright
    will buy off the US Congress and draft the legislation themselves (as they always
    have, historically).\r\nSo there are very few \"bright lines\" as they say in
    IP law lingo.\r\nThere are two general trends: EULA's, as contracts, no matter
    how broad, hold up in court very well. Infringement of software copyright on the
    other hand, has been interpreted more narrowly. This is because software is not
    a purely creative act like a poem - software is aimed at solving a problem and,
    therefore, different software which all aim to solve the same problem will tend
    to converge. If everyone on this thread were to go off and write a poem, there
    would be obvious divergence between each and every one of our efforts. (No limericks,
    please.) However, if we all created a Windows executable for copying a file from
    one directory to another, there would certainly be similarities. Therefore, the
    trend in determining copyright infringement of software has evolved to be much
    more narrow - as long as your software is not a byte-for-byte copy of something,
    there is considerable leeway.\r\nThat's my understanding of the situation.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 15:05:52'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "<em>Are there any other companies which, in your opinion, are above the law
    and should be granted immunity from prosecution?</em>\r\n\r\nThis is my assertion:
    in the examples you cite, Microsoft and Adobe should be able to demonstrate to
    the satisfaction of a judge that they have broken no laws and that they have violated
    no contract to which they are party."
  created: '2009-12-29 18:31:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Read this\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi2.pdf\r\n\r\nand have fun
    (or puke)."
  created: '2009-12-29 19:53:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'The type is too small. '
  created: '2009-12-29 20:20:07'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: I read it, but it's not entirely clear to me what the copyright notice is
    intended to cover.  I'll grant you that Adobe doesn't have the right to assert
    copyright ownership of the implementation of the letterforms, the associated metrics,
    etc. whether in TT or T1 format (unless in fact they hold the copyright for those
    letterforms, metrics, etc.), but surely they have a right to assert copyright
    ownership of the rest of the code responsible for embedding/subsetting the font.
  created: '2009-12-29 20:26:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aric:\r\n\r\n> but surely they have a right to assert copyright ownership
    of the rest of the code responsible for embedding/subsetting the font.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    did not embed the ripoff TT font ExpressSSK, but Adobe converted this TT font
    to a PS font. Adobe did not have a right to do that.\r\n\r\nLook at the encrypted
    hex string of the capital S:\r\n\r\n<cite><1C60D8A8C9B6465286517DFB6D7C6C14A043374D961E136CA717E576CB9E\r\n0ABEB37363E10081011882767160AB68D42427361B5BA3C4541EBE814357C975\r\nF2D902D25AD05822832B08F28F4BC30F02C999C03E4B79B6A108B3D318DB316B\r\n1FF7D11CBAB6E0F316E088BCD91128AEEE8037121C95EC6316063465BFF7E90D\r\nED5468A14E191112A80B7C128091249FB305C2E3CD8C3B9E1C0C9896F63695F0\r\n977B0553958238285F6E7FB94FB7A4818712></cite>\r\n\r\nto
    which Adobe claims copyright (in the year 2009, nota bene).\r\n\r\nThis hex string
    decrypts to\r\n\r\n<cite>0 659 hsbw 460 623 rmoveto 37 -27 18 -38 0 -50 rrcurveto
    97 5 rlineto -9 75 -32 57 -55 38 rrcurveto -49 35 -64 18 -78 0 rrcurveto -69 0
    -58 -17 -47 -33 rrcurveto -54 -38 -27 -51 0 -66 rrcurveto 0 -75 39 -53 79 -31
    rrcurveto 72 -19 72 -19 73 -18 rrcurveto 78 -23 39 -38 0 -53 rrcurveto 0 -48 -18
    -37 -36 -25 rrcurveto -31 -22 -41 -11 -50 0 rrcurveto -65 0 -50 14 -36 29 rrcurveto
    -39 31 -19 46 0 63 rrcurveto -102 -9 rlineto 0 -87 31 -65 63 -43 rrcurveto 54
    -37 74 -19 93 0 rrcurveto 74 0 63 18 51 37 rrcurveto 57 41 29 55 0 72 rrcurveto
    0 84 -39 60 -79 36 rrcurveto -1 1 -72 20 -144 38 rrcurveto -78 22 -39 35 0 50
    rrcurveto 0 39 18 29 37 19 rrcurveto 28 15 35 7 41 0 rrcurveto 53 0 43 -12 33
    -25 rrcurveto closepath endchar</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is the PS outline of the Akzidenz
    Grotesk \"S\" ripoff labeled ExpressSSK.\r\n\r\nWhat makes you think that Adobe
    has the right to convert a TT ripoff font to a PS ripoff font? Do you think that
    the font forger Paul King granted to the Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen in the year
    2009 the right to convert his SSI (Southern Software Inc.) ripoff TrueType fonts
    to Adobe Inc. PostScript ripoff fonts?"
  created: '2009-12-29 21:13:49'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: As far as I can tell, Adobe would not be considered an end user in this case
    and as such would not be party to an end user license agreement.  If you disagree,
    and if you can find a way to construe yourself as an interested party in this
    matter, get a lawyer and sue Adobe.  Until the courts rule in your favor, most
    of us are going to assume that in cases where the EULA says we can embed/subset
    a font, the organization behind the EULA will allow us to use those fonts in PDF
    files, even if that means that the internal representation of those fonts changes
    from TT to T1.
  created: '2009-12-29 22:00:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aric:\r\n\r\nYou should work as the legal assistant of Adobe's CEO Shantanu
    Narayen, since you possess the great persuasiveness to make dimwitted people believe
    that Adobe is permitted by law to convert font forgeries from TT to PS and to
    make dimwitted people believe that Adobe becomes the copyright owner of converted
    font forgeries. "
  created: '2009-12-30 00:18:24'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "<cite>Uh, with web fonts there is a great need to convert OTF to TTF. Internet
    Explorer can\u2019t handle OTF. This is a situation that will go on for years.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh,
    great! I'll be deploying all my fonts in OTF, then. The hell with Internet Explorer!"
  created: '2009-12-30 00:30:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Check, please.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 00:36:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Open Word, type the letter \u201CA\u201D three times and mark them
    up with the TTF font \u201CPalatino\u201D, and then select the character options
    \u201COutline\u201D, \u201CShaded\u201D and \u201CRelief\u201D. In this way, Microsoft
    Word generates derivative versions of the Palatino \u201CA\u201D. The result will
    look like this</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, no. You see, if you take a Type 1 font, and look
    at the vector information encoded in it, and then put those vectors in a TrueType
    font, <em>then</em> you're violating copyright law.\r\n\r\nBut if you just take
    a Type 1 font and print with it... well, that's what you're supposed to do with
    a font.\r\n\r\nIf you then take the printed image, and perform an \"outline\",
    \"shaded\" or \"relief\" transformation on the printed image, you aren't creating
    a derivative work of the Adobe Type 1 Font... you're merely creating a derivative
    work of your own printed document.\r\n\r\nNow, what if you print the whole alphabet,
    and then shove it into an autotrace program, and make a TrueType font that way?\r\n\r\nSince
    you have different vectors, and no hinting, you have filed off the serial numbers.
    And since type designs are, unfortunately, not protected by copyright, you haven't
    violated copyright law.\r\n\r\nHowever, since the font was licensed, not sold,
    even to use it for printing, you needed to accept the terms of the EULA, and it
    may well be that doing this will violate the terms of the EULA.\r\n\r\nNote, however,
    that if you print a book in this font, and someone else picks up a copy of that
    book, likes the font, and makes an autotrace version of it after scanning a page
    in... well, he violated your copyright. But he didn't \"sign\" the EULA. So rip-off
    copies of fonts are still impossible to stop with EULAs alone in the absence of
    legal protection for font designs."
  created: '2009-12-30 01:39:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "quadibloc:\r\n\r\nYour legal argumentations are entirely wrong:\r\n\r\n-
    Palatino is a German typeface.\r\n- Linotype is a German company.\r\n- Hermann
    Zapf is a German designer.\r\n- German law protects font designs.\r\n\r\nWhile
    the Latin character set of Palatino is too old, the Greek character set contained
    in the 1998 Palatino version pala.ttf is probably a new design and hence probably
    protectable by German design law. If this should be the case and if the Greek
    character set should have been successfully registered as a new design, then \"outline\"
    etc. modifications of this Greek design made by Microsoft Word, as exemplified
    here\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/kreter2.pdf\r\n\r\nwould be illegal according
    to German design law.\r\n\r\nAnd the Postscript conversion of these outline modifications
    made by Adobe Acrobat in the PDF file kreter2.pdf would be illegal too.\r\n\r\nHence
    both Microsoft and Adobe would have committed an infringement of the German design
    law, unless they had been granted by Hermann Zapf the right to \"to adapt, modify,
    alter, translate, convert, or otherwise change\" the Greek font design of Palatino."
  created: '2009-12-30 07:48:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It is good that German law protects font designs, preventing the nonsensical
    situation I outlined in my post.\r\n\r\nHowever, it is difficult for users and
    creators of Type 1 fonts to sue Adobe, and for users and creators of TrueType
    fonts to sue Apple (and, likely, its licensee Microsoft) because, of course, they
    had to license the font technology from those companies in the first place. This
    may place some limitations on what would otherwise be their rights.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    let us say that I have purchased a copy of a TrueType font, and am not licensed
    to convert it into an Adobe Type1 font. I use that font in a document which I
    am printing on a PostScript laser printer.\r\n\r\nIn doing so, I do <strong>not</strong>
    create a .pfb file that sits on my hard disk that I can use for printing documents
    with programs that can only use Type1 fonts.\r\n\r\nHowever, it is true that the
    inner workings of the PostScript print driver take the vectors of my TrueType
    font, and send them off to the printer in a form that looks like the vectors of
    a Type1 font. Infringement?\r\n\r\nNo. That's because the \"conversion\" is used
    solely as a temporary means of printing, locked inside the programs, and not made
    available. If the font supplier were to use the EULA as a means to say \"just
    because you bought this font, you aren't <em>really</em> licensed to print with
    it\", they would be committing fraud, and the criminal law takes precedence over
    contract law (and, for that matter, even copyright law).\r\n\r\nAs for creating
    an outline or shaded version of Palatino's Greek character set, it may well be
    you do have a point, and it is not legal to use such a feature with some of the
    fonts one has on one's computer, depending on licensing, given that the font designs
    are protected by law - and the font design, of course, is still there <em>after</em>
    something has been printed.\r\n\r\nUnder U.S. law, though, except for trademark
    rights to the name of the font, most of the rights pretty well end at the time
    of printing - although the situation may have improved a bit recently."
  created: '2009-12-30 09:26:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "quadibloc:\r\n\r\nYour above posting is very interesting, but you mention
    additional legal problems which should be discussed in a separate thread.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    one of the numerous Monotype vs. Adobe lawsuits, which fits this thread, should
    be mentioned here, namely this lawsuit\r\n\r\nwww.steptoe.com/publications/338b.pdf\r\n\r\nIt
    is funny that Judge Leinenweber, who tried to grasp the embedding bit, did not
    mentally realize that Adobe converts entire TT fonts to PS fonts thus dumping
    the embedding bits into the trash can."
  created: '2009-12-30 16:20:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although I normally don't bother engaging with Uli, I'll make a brief exception.\r\n\r\nUli:
    \"Adobe converts entire TT fonts to PS fonts thus dumping the embedding bits into
    the trash can.\"\r\n\r\nAdobe: \"Note, however, that it is possible to add fsType
    information to Type 1 fonts. See \u201CFonts that Use FSType Instead of fsType\u201D
    on page 19 for more information\"\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/acrobat/pdfs/FontPolicies.pdf\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-30 20:19:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Phinney:\r\n\r\n> See \u201CFonts that Use FSType Instead of fsType\u201D
    on page 19\r\n\r\nThis paragraph on page 19 begins with the sentence:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"When
    TrueType and OpenType fonts are sent to Distiller, they are usually <strong>converted</strong>
    into one of the following PostScript representations: Type 1, Type 42, or CIDFont.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    is what I said at the beginning of this thread. But who allowed Adobe \"to adapt,
    modify, alter, translate, convert\" the fonts made by others?\r\n\r\nLet's assume,
    I publish a new book, and then discover that Adobe \"adapted, modified and translated\"
    my book into another language. How come that Adobe is allowed to do that? Is Adobe
    above the law?"
  created: '2009-12-30 21:59:30'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: What law or laws do you suppose Adobe breaks in programming Distiller in such
    a way that TrueType and OpenType fonts are converted into a PostScript representation
    for embedding in a PDF file?
  created: '2009-12-30 23:02:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My understanding is that I cannot use any font I want in a PDF document,
    I can only use fonts that are licensed to be embedded that way. Adobe, however,
    is not responsible for my use of Adobe Distiller; when I \"print\" a word processor
    document out as a .PDF document, I am the one who is taking the action of embedding
    those fonts in the document.\r\n\r\nSince Adobe does not provide tools for extracting
    embedded fonts from .PDF documents, but rather the fonts are embedded there as
    only an essential part of allowing such documents to serve as a form of electronic
    paper, they aren't engaging in contributory infringement either.\r\n\r\nThe law
    does draw a distinction between translations that are performed internally and
    externally. Thus, a microprocessor might convert the instructions of a computer
    program into a microcode-like form, and then even cache the instructions in this
    form within the chip to speed up tight loops by avoiding repeating the instruction
    decode step. Running a computer program on such a microprocessor does not constitute
    \"translating\" it into another language for copyright purposes, because it does
    not have the consequence of allowing people to use the program on other computers
    with a different instruction set.\r\n\r\nCurrently, there is a lawsuit going on
    between IBM and the maker of an Itanium-based machine that emulates IBM mainframes,
    because it uses just-in-time compilation that performs the translation externally
    - so this is a complicated area of law. On the other hand, Apple felt that they
    were unlikely to be sued by software vendors for their system for providing PowerPC
    emulation on Intel Macintosh computers using the same technology.\r\n\r\nEmbedded
    fonts in a PDF document aren't inside a chip, but since they are locked inside
    the document, font vendors may allow their fonts to be used for creating such
    documents. But you are correct that they're not obliged to allow this. But the
    onus of compiance is with individual users of Adobe products, not on Adobe - Acrobat
    Distiller has a legitimate and valuable purpose which has nothing to do with stealing
    fonts."
  created: '2009-12-30 23:05:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "aric:\r\n\r\n> <cite>What law or laws do you suppose Adobe breaks in programming
    Distiller in such a way that TrueType and OpenType fonts are converted into a
    PostScript representation for embedding in a PDF file?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis law:
    \r\n\r\nUS Copyright Law, section \xA7 506 c (Fraudulent Copyright Notice)\r\n\r\nSince
    you want to defend Adobe, you ignore the other Typophile thread:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/interstate.pdf"
  created: '2009-12-31 04:44:23'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "You're right, I was forgetting that thread.  In that thread, it was established
    that the supposed fraudulent copyright notices aren't even part of the PDF file;
    they are not inserted by Distiller at all, but by the printer driver into the
    \"printed\" PostScript code.  They assert copyright over the code the driver has
    generated, not over any other intellectual property in the file, whether font-related
    or not.\r\n\r\nIt seems that no one can persuade you to believe that your interpretation
    of the situation is flawed.  It also seems that you cannot persuade anyone that
    your interpretation is correct.  Sounds like a stalemate to me; I'm throwing in
    the towel.\r\n\r\nOn a completely unrelated note, I wish you a very happy new
    year."
  created: '2009-12-31 06:33:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> On a completely unrelated note, I wish you a very happy new year.\r\n\r\nI
    wish the same to you.\r\n\r\nThe documentation\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/interstate.pdf\r\n\r\nhas
    been greatly enlarged and now also includes legal remarks for Germans on page
    89 of this document.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 11:00:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "quadibloc:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Under U.S. law, though, except for trademark rights
    to the name of the font, most of the rights pretty well end at the time of printing</cite>\r\n\r\nUK
    is different. In UK, there is a provision for the printing of books etc.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988\", which is the current UK copyright
    law, specifies in section 15 for \"typographical arrangement\":\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Duration
    of copyright in typographical arrangement of published editions\r\nCopyright in
    the typographical arrangement of a published edition expires at the end of the
    period of 25 years from the end of the calendar year in which the edition was
    first published.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis funny provision even applies to newly typeset
    public domain books, e.g. the works of Shakespeare, and even to PD books newly
    typeset in PD fonts, e.g. books typeset in an old Garamond font, with the consequence
    that you are not allowed to reprint an old public domain book newly typeset in
    an old public domain font."
  created: '2010-01-04 10:27:11'
date: '2009-12-27 18:04:50'
node_type: forum
title: Infringement by converting a TT to a T1 font?

---
