---
author:
  name: stw
  picture: 110841
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI am searching for a multilingual alternative to Trajan. It doesnt
  have to look exactly like Trajan, Im just searching for something with a similar
  feel and oldstyle proportions. A just uppercase font is enough. But I need an extended
  latin character set and cyrillic letters as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nThank you very much
  for suggestions.\r\nbest regards. Steven"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Look here: http://typophile.com/node/55465\r\n\r\nOne potential problem is
    that Trajan is inherently Latin, being based on Roman inscriptions; so a Cyrillic
    font in the same <em>style</em> is presumably not going to have the same <em>feel</em>,
    or trigger the same associations."
  created: '2009-12-27 14:39:14'
- author:
    name: Pomeranz
    picture: 111526
  body: "Hello Steven,\r\n\r\nwhat about Parachute\u2019s Monumenta Pro? You can watch
    it here: [[http://www.parachute.gr/fonts.aspx?Sample=1&FontStyleID=&FontFamilyID=32&CharacterSetID=52]].
    It speaks latin, greek and cyrillic.\r\n\r\nBest wishes,\r\nTh. Kunz\r\n[ www.ABCdarium.de
    ]"
  created: '2009-12-27 14:39:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Nina said.\r\n\r\nFrom that other thread:\r\nA Cyrillic font that follows
    Trajan\u2019s forms slavishly is not really an analog to Trajan, because it cannot
    say the same thing in that \u201Cvoice\u201D to Russians. Fonts don\u2019t convey
    their atmosphere so superficially; you need to look deeper - figure out which
    Cyrillic font says to Russians what Trajan says to Westerners.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 16:09:31'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>One potential problem is that Trajan is inherently Latin, being
    based on Roman inscriptions; so a Cyrillic font in the same </em>style<em> is
    presumably not going to have the same </em>feel<em>, or trigger the same associations.</em></li></ul>
    I beg to differ. Historically there have been quite a few attempts, some of them
    more successful than <a href=\"http://www.behance.net/pouzeot/frame/215715\">others</a>,
    at developing Cyrillic versions of the Trajan letters. The earliest one I know
    of was Trajanus Kyrillisch (by Hermann Zapf; D.Stempel, 1957). There is a number
    of Cyrillic digital fonts whose design was inspired by the Roman monumental lettering.
    The capitals of <a href=\"http://www.paratype.ru/pstore/fonts/Lazurski.htm\">Lazurski
    Roman</a> (by Vladimir Lazurski; VNIIPolygraphMash, 1962) are probably the best-known
    example. Sergei Egorov who lives in the USA continually explores the <a href=\"http://www.malgil.com/esl/\">Trajan
    legacy</a>. The demand for the definitive Cyrillic version of Adobe Trajan is
    huge, and it is not likely to go away. Unauthorised Cyrillisations of Carol Twombly\u2019s
    Trajan abound. Shown below is <a href=\"http://www.paratype.ru/pstore/fonts/Romul.htm\">Romul</a>,
    by Sergey Shanovich (TypeMarket, 1995).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Trajan_Cyr_5723.png]"
  created: '2009-12-27 16:24:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's been done formally, and I'm sure you're right about the demand being
    huge, but I can't see how Russians who look at it get the same mood out of it
    as people looking at Trajan.\r\n\r\nWhat mood does <em>this</em> convey?\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trajic.html\r\n\r\nThe
    problem to me is that the formal migration of features violates a more important
    design parameter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 16:30:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Agreed: I don't see how the facts that it's been done, and that there's a
    demand for it (both of which I won't dispute) negate what I said, and Hrant back
    in the other thread.\r\nIn Cyrillic, Trajanesque forms cannot possibly have the
    same \"relative\" connotations they have in Latin-land \u2013 here, they link
    back to an important/normative/\"classic\" chapter in the development of our script,
    whereas in Cyrillic, they'd essentially be mimicking a foreign model, which I'd
    expect <em>must</em> \"feel\" different, or give it a different \"flavor\".\r\nIf
    I make a font that applies characteristics of classic Chinese fonts to Latin type,
    even if I am formally successful, it'd be silly to expect the end result to look
    as inherently classic as the foreign model \u2013 it's obviously mostly going
    to look\u2026 foreign-influenced."
  created: '2009-12-27 16:42:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> What mood does this convey?\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trajic.html\r\n\r\nI
    was going to say that it conveys the fact that some people have too much time
    on their hands, but in a web search, I found out that this experimental face is
    not being offered for sale... and you appear to be the designer responsible for
    it.\r\n\r\nIt's fine to do something to get people to think. Since, however, Russian
    and Greek have been adapted to Times Roman, I see no problem in allowing people
    whose language is Russian and Greek to use, in addition to the existing typefaces
    for their languages, other faces originally designed for the Latin alphabet...
    Garamond, Baskerville, Cheltenham, Hobo or even Papyrus, if they feel like.\r\n\r\nCyrillic
    isn't really much different from Latin in the base formes which it uses; yes,
    some lowercase letters use \"small capital\" forms, while others (a and e) use
    the same lowercase as Latin.\r\n\r\nGreek, unlike Armenian, at least has the same
    x-height as Latin, but the fact that its lowercase has a cursive basis rather
    than an uncial basis does mean that translating fonts is much more problematic
    - except in this case, where the typeface is uppercase only.\r\n\r\nGiven the
    enormous influence of the English-speaking world, though, it's not surprising
    that typefaces for, say, Japanese have been influenced by display faces designed
    for the Latin alphabet. Compared to which, translating any Latin typeface to Armenian,
    Amharic, or even Gujarati - even a blackletter - is small potatoes."
  created: '2009-12-27 17:56:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Wow, Hrant, Nina, what evidence would ever lead you to question your theory?
    \r\n\r\nHere's a world expert on Cyrillic telling you that not only his eyes tell
    him differently, but a whole series of Russian designers see it differently, and
    evidently they think the reading public for Cyrillic languages does as well.  "
  created: '2009-12-27 18:04:49'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "William: I don't mean to come across as self-righteous at all! As a matter
    of principle, I believe what appears to make the most sense to me (no matter who
    it comes from BTW). That means I'll gladly change my mind when I'm presented with
    a contrary reasoning that makes more sense.* \u2013 In this case, \"evidence\"
    that this has been done is not the same as a rationale for <em>why</em> it should
    <em>work</em> \u2013 Hrant's and my reasoning why it <em>shouldn't</em> just seems
    much more intuitive and plausible to me. By all means, please go ahead and prove
    me wrong if you think this doesn't make sense. It's a great subject for discussion
    I think.\r\n(* Same with any other \"theory\" I may ever present BTW.)"
  created: '2009-12-27 18:20:04'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>A Cyrillic font that follows Trajan\u2019s forms slavishly is
    not really</em> [\u2026]</li><li><em>It\u2019s been done formally, and I\u2019m
    sure you\u2019re right about the demand being huge, but I can\u2019t see how</em>
    [\u2026]</li></ul> Take it from a native user of Cyrillic: inspired and informed,
    skillful and sensitive\u2014not \u2018slavish\u2019 or \u2018formal\u2019 (those
    expletives don\u2019t prove anything)\u2014Cyrillisations of type designs, originally
    developed for Latin script, do work. This is a fact. The \u0153uvre of <a href=\"http://bjorn.kiev.ua/librae/LazurskyCV/i.htm\">Vadim
    Lazurski</a> [<em>not </em>Vladimir<em>: my bad</em>] is a good example.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I consider your comparing Cyrillic letterforms to your \u2018invented glyphs\u2019
    designed in search of \u2018the morphological essence of a letter\u2019 a joke.
    What may look as visual gobbledygook to you is alphabet to the hundreds of millions
    of Cyrillic users worldwide."
  created: '2009-12-27 18:32:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "It would be useful to take into account that the Latin alphabet is not used
    by a single homogeneous culture. Various cultures have adopted the Latin alphabet,
    many of them long before the invention of type and mass literacy homogenized the
    forms of the alphabet into something we know today. Even a hundred years ago languages
    such as German and Irish would commonly be printed using different forms of the
    Latin alphabet from the humanist model we are familiar with.\r\n\r\nWhat do we
    mean when we speak of Trajan's connotations in the Latinosphere? Does it mean
    the same to a modern Italian, born into a culture and surroundings that retain
    a strong link to classical antiquity through the Renaissance revival; to a German
    old enough to remember learning to read and write in a model removed from what
    we have today; or to a Madagascan, for whom his native language was first written
    in the Latin alphabet during the age of the Moderns and Scotch Romans we have
    been talking so much about lately? Or to an Uzbek, who is living through an uneven
    and incomplete transition from Cyrillic to Latin (and whose language has historically
    been written in a version of the Arabic alphabet)? Is an Uzbek phrase written
    in the Latin alphabet and rendered in Trajan somehow less problematic than the
    same phrase written in Cyrillic and rendered in Trajanesque forms?\r\n\r\nThere
    are lots of Latin alphabet users who are at a considerable cultural remove from
    Classical Rome. And yet, they have presumably been subjected to Trajan through
    the multitude of Hollywood films they consume. I sometimes wonder whether those
    of familiar with the history of the Latin letterforms may often be forgetful of
    the fact that the vast majority of the masses don't ever really consider the historical
    and cultural context of the forms of the letters they see around them."
  created: '2009-12-27 18:33:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nina, regarding connotations, it isn't as if Russia has been somehow cut off
    from Latin Europe and completely missed out on any heritage of western classicism.
    Sure, such classicism was foreign in origin, but 300 years ago it was deliberately
    imported by Peter the Great -- not only in the reform of the structure and forms
    of Russian alphabet, but also in architecture, painting, sculpture and music --
    and has been completely naturalised. The connotations may not be exactly the same,
    but there is a common recognition.
  created: '2009-12-27 18:41:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, I know it's intuitive and plausible, but Maxim is telling you that
    it's also wrong. \r\n\r\nI don't know the history and I don't read any Cyrillic
    language, but here's my guess: I read on the wikipedia that Peter the Great latinized
    Cyrillic. When I look at the Cyrillic alphabet I see some characters that look
    identical to Roman caps. \r\n\r\nAnd our own lower case was 'romanized' by being
    retro-fitted with Imperial Capitals as initial letters in the 15th century. \r\n\r\nSo
    both our scripts have some Roman Caps mixed with other alphabets. So it seems
    to me pretty plausible that they would see the same elegance and authority in
    these designs. \r\n\r\nAlso I would think that the Imperial Caps look elegant
    and grand, even if you don't read any language with a latin script. You don't
    have to have lived in ancient times to find the architecture of ancient Rome and
    Greece grand. A lot isn't cultural, it's just human."
  created: '2009-12-27 18:44:43'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "@altaira: <cite>it\u2019s obviously mostly going to look\u2026 foreign-influenced</cite>.
    Well, being a \"modern italian\" (as in the Jongseong's example), I could say
    that Trajan <em>does</em> look somewhat foreign. In the sense that it appear to
    belong to a different, definite culture."
  created: '2009-12-27 19:07:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>Cyrillic isn\u2019t really much different from Latin in the base
    formes which it uses</em></li></ul>\r\nThis is true: Cyrillic is indeed related
    to Greek and Latin\u2014functionally, structurally and aesthetically. This relationship
    goes back a very long way in history, about twelve centuries. There is a nice
    <a href=\"http://bjorn.kiev.ua/librae/LazurskyCV/img/hi/118.jpg\">visual</a> Lazurski
    put together to illustrate that deep and complex relationship.\r\n<ul><li><em>Given
    the enormous influence of the English-speaking world, though, it\u2019s not surprising
    that typefaces for, say, Japanese have been influenced by display faces designed
    for the Latin alphabet. Compared to which, translating any Latin typeface to Armenian,
    Amharic, or even Gujarati - even a blackletter - is small potatoes</em>.</li></ul>\r\nHere
    you are referring to the typographic fashion. However, the design of the typefaces
    that covers both Latin and Cyrillic scripts is not driven by the fashion considerations
    only, there is a lot more to its rationale. Nor is the \u2018enormous influence
    of the English-speaking world\u2019, which is a relatively recent phenomenon,
    a decisive factor. It\u2019s just that in the last 300 years Cyrillic typography
    developed in synch with Western typography: first, Dutch, then French, then German.
    The synopses of most types used in Russia and other Cyrillic-using countries used
    to include both Cyrillic and Latin letters. So do the present-day digital Cyrillic
    fonts. There is nothing controversial, or perverse to the development, or use,
    of the Cyrillic versions of Trajan, or Garamond, or Baskerville, etc. It is standard
    practice."
  created: '2009-12-27 19:31:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is very interesting to read in conjunction:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"classicism
    was foreign in origin, but 300 years ago it was deliberately imported by Peter
    the Great\"</cite>\r\n<cite>\"being a \u201Cmodern italian\u201D[\u2026], I could
    say that Trajan does look somewhat foreign. In the sense that it appear to belong
    to a different, definite culture.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe in this special combination
    \u2013 of Trajanesque lettershapes already being somewhat remote to us culturally
    (and quite likely, especially so in the fringes of Latin-land), <em>plus</em>
    Cyrillic already having acquired a strong structural closeness to Latin \u2013
    the difference isn't quite so big as to really be jarring, or even very noticeable
    (at least not as jarring as it could be between other scripts). But surely it
    can't completely disappear? Wouldn't there still be a (if barely noticeable) subliminal
    tinge of foreign-ness to it, of obviously referring back to a different script/culture?\r\n\r\nAnd,
    this:\r\n<cite>\"A lot isn\u2019t cultural, it\u2019s just human.\"</cite>\r\n\u2026is
    exactly what I would be arguing against. Surely, different cultures* have different
    visual expressions of \"grandeur\"; and while another culture's \"grandeur\" may
    well be recognizable as such, the expression of it surely can't be transferred
    from one culture to the other just by copying its \"surface\" formal properties.
    I mean Japanese calligraphy looks \"grand\" to me too, but when trying to apply
    the same style to Latin letters, the result would certainly look distinctly <em>foreign</em>
    long before it will look \"grand\". \r\n\r\nNow, maybe in the specific context
    discussed in this thread, this factor of \"foreignness\" is very small, but that
    doesn't mean this issue of transferability of style between scripts shouldn't
    be a basic consideration no matter which scripts we're talking about.\r\n\r\n(*
    I do see that the whole \"cultural\" argument is particularly hard, and potentially
    fishy, to apply to Latin.)"
  created: '2009-12-27 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> some people have too much time on their hands\r\n\r\nWell, when I made
    that I certainly did have much more free time than I do now! :-)  But many type
    designers do \"experiments\" like that. I think it helps people -not least the
    designer himself- see things [better].\r\n\r\n> Greek, unlike Armenian, at least
    has the same x-height as Latin\r\n\r\nNot the way I see things. In fact I think
    even Polish and English don't have the same x-height.  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, Ladislas
    Mandel has claimed this sort of thing for French vs English.\r\n\r\n> translating
    any Latin typeface to Armenian, Amharic, ...\r\n\r\nIt is this translation that
    I think: can never be perfect; and has rarely been done right.\r\n\r\n> world
    expert on Cyrillic\r\n\r\nWilliam, I think you'd agree that nobody should blindly
    follow anybody else's advice, because each of us sees the world differently, and
    that's something to cherish and leverage. It's certainly tricky to balance the
    opinions of a bonafide expert in a field versus one's personal broader view.\r\n\r\nI
    would also say that seeing a problem is different than solving it, and each requires
    its own qualities and expertise. In this case I feel I can claim to be able to
    do the former on my own, but not the latter without the help of somebody like
    Maxim (except he doesn't agree it's a problem).\r\n\r\n> What may look as visual
    gobbledygook to you is alphabet\r\n> to the hundreds of millions of Cyrillic users
    worldwide.\r\n\r\nThat wasn't my point (of course). It's that I think there's
    something to be grasped exactly by looking at imaginary forms.\r\n\r\nBrian, very
    good point(s). And as I said in that other thread, Trajan doesn't even mean what
    we seem to hope it does any more.\r\n\r\n> it isn\u2019t as if Russia has been
    somehow cut off from Latin Europe\r\n\r\nTrue, but there certainly is a strong
    skew, and good design is subtle.\r\n\r\n> Maxim is telling you that it\u2019s
    also wrong.\r\n\r\nMaxim is also adamant that the x-height between Latin and Cyrillic
    must be the same. To most people that makes sense; to me* it doesn't and this
    has little to do with Cyrillic - it's a much broader belief, which I cannot simply
    dump case-by-case - that would be hypocritical.\r\n\r\n* And I know others (including
    Cyrillic natives) who agree with me.\r\n\r\n> in the last 300 years Cyrillic typography\r\n>
    developed in synch with the Western typography\r\n\r\nTo me this has been mostly
    damaging, and I try to convince people that a re-alignment is needed. You once
    said that Russians don't need my help. I'm sorry, I can't help it, and I don't
    know anybody who can stop me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 19:51:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>And as I said in that other thread, Trajan doesn\u2019t even mean what
    we seem to hope it does any more.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich is why it would be helpful
    if Steven, the original poster, explained to us why he is looking for a Trajan
    alternate. To evoke classical Rome? Or for a generic stately look? Because of
    the formal properties? For a multilingual campaign for an upcoming Hollywood epic?"
  created: '2009-12-27 20:06:17'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "(P.S.)\r\n\r\n<cite>translation</cite>\r\n\r\nI think this is a crucial key
    word in this context. While a sensitive translation can approximate quite closely,
    its output will never be \xABidentical\xBB to the input; in much the same way
    that say a poem cannot be translated between languages without changing very slightly,
    simply because every language (and here, every script, in terms of its \xABdesign
    space\xBB) has its own intricate system of denotations and connotations. Copying
    the denotative level of the elements is not automagically going to match the connotative
    level as well, especially when the connotation, as in this case, is actually inherent
    in the source culture."
  created: '2009-12-27 20:12:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Not the way I see things. In fact I think even Polish and English don\u2019t
    have the same x-height. :-)\r\n\r\n> BTW, Ladislas Mandel has claimed this sort
    of thing for French vs English.\r\n\r\nWhile there might be some on this thread
    who might ridicule you for saying this (but then, you did include a smiley) I
    do see your point.\r\n\r\nWhile Cyrillic and Latin letter forms have a great deal
    in common, it is also true that until recently, they were not using the same typefaces.
    Russian had a greater tendency to be set in fonts resembling Bodoni or Didot -
    but with thicker thick strokes.\r\n\r\nAnd it is true that Caslon (English) and
    Garamond (French) and Bodoni (Italian) and Weiss Roman (German) don't have the
    same x-heights - and because of differing frequencies of individual letters and
    pairs of letters, some typefaces that have flaws when used for one language work
    beautifully with another one.\r\n\r\nRather, therefore, than claiming that you
    don't have a point, I think I will make a different point that won't contradict
    yours.\r\n\r\nYes, people with different alphabets - or even people with different
    languages who use the Latin alphabet - ought to continue to exercise creativity
    in designing their own typefaces which draw from their own cultural context.\r\n\r\nBut
    because there are only \"so many hours in each day\" and only so many creative
    type designers available... this should <em>not</em> be considered an argument
    against taking advantage of the work of typeface designers working in other cultural
    spheres so as to have even more typeface choices available."
  created: '2009-12-27 21:51:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I certainly agree that design is a highly pragmatic endeavor. If you can
    save time, all else being equal, that's wonderful. I'm a big fan of efficiency
    (even if often I don't know where it's hiding). But -at least in a text face-
    I think <em>as a rule</em> important things will go wrong when you transfer formal
    attributes across scripts.\r\n\r\nHere's a summary of my thoughts on this:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html\r\nFor
    the full treatment you might want to find a copy of the 4th issue of Spatium magazine
    (or the 5th of the Greek journal Hyphen) where I have an article entitled \"Latinization:
    Prevention and Cure\".\r\n\r\nBTW, I use my smilies as carefully as I [try to]
    use my words. That one above was not winking. :-)  A clarification is in order
    however: when Mandel said that a proper French typeface has a small x-height,
    he meant it culturally; when I say something along those lines it's generally
    from a functional perspective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-27 22:58:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I thought Trajan spoke Latin and Greek.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2009-12-28 13:54:42'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Thank you very much. Much to read. But interesting discussion so far. Well,
    after reading it a bit I think you are right. Trajan does not have the same feel
    in every culture and a cyrillic Trajan might not look \"classy\" for russian readers.
    \r\n\r\nI am searching a font for greeting cards, x-mas cards, deeds and so on.
    For the latin version we decided to use Trajan. So my problem is which font should
    i use than for the cyrillic version to achieve the same \"classy\" feel.\r\n\r\nOr
    could you suggest an other font that works for both? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 15:13:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a cyrillic Trajan might not look \u201Cclassy\u201D for russian readers.
    \r\n\r\nSo non-Russian readers tell you that it won't look \"classy\" and a Russian
    indicates that Russian readers and type designers do indeed think it looks \"classy\"--and
    you conclude that the non-Russian readers know more about what Russian readers
    will think than Russian readers do? "
  created: '2009-12-28 15:52:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I said nothing about classy or not. There are enough fonts out there that
    it should be possible to find something that better expresses to Russians what
    Trajan expresses to others. Note this simple but crucial fact: Trajan is much
    more common in the West than its Cyrillic versions are in Russia. In fact it's
    possible (as some of us have been saying) that Trajan is not really \"classy\"
    in the West anymore. So what to do? If Stephen is stuck with Trajan for the Latin,
    it might actually make sense to break with the mood and choose something truly
    classy for the Cyrillic - quite possibly a Cyrillic Trajan! :-)  But this wouldn't
    be the same thing as saying \"they mean the same things\".\r\n\r\nAnd William,
    what are you, the thought police? If you want to change his mind put forward your
    arguments; saying \"just do what that other guy said without thinking\" is really
    lame. If you don't feel qualified to give specific Cyrillic advice, maybe stick
    to the general stuff (like I have) and say something like \"Don't worry, a font's
    formal features mean the same things in any culture\". The thing is, do you believe
    that?\r\n\r\nNow that Steven has an idea in his head, a truly helpful person would
    try to subvert his own opinions and suggest some Cyrillic fonts. For one thing,
    nobody is omniscient - any of us could be wrong on anything. FWIW suggesting Cyrillic
    fonts is something I don't feel qualified to do myself (although I'll still try
    to help if better people don't).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 16:11:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, I am not trying to control anybody. I am just baffled by the indifference
    to evidence. \r\n\r\nMaxim is a reader of Russian, in touch with Russian type
    designers, who are in turn in touch with their public through response to their
    designs. It is not a question of believing this person's or that person's opinion.
    The issue here is what feeling Cyrillic Trajan will give to Cyrillic readers.
    So the reports of Cyrillic readers seem to me to constitute evidence for or against
    your theory. \r\n\r\nIf 100% of Cyrillic readers, including those who read languages
    that use roman type, would say that Cyrillic versions of Trajan look classy to
    them, would you still insist that you must be right that Trajan doesn't have a
    similar emotional connotation for Cyrillic readers? \r\n\r\nTo repeat my question,
    what evidence could ever lead you to question your theory? "
  created: '2009-12-28 16:13:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why do you think Stephen was indifferent? And what \"evidence\", exactly?\r\n\r\n>
    The issue here is what feeling Cyrillic Trajan will give to Cyrillic readers.\r\n\r\nI
    think that -for anybody- this is more a result of a belief system rather than
    any hard evidence. This is a human thing, especially in a field where empirical
    evidence is so scarce. As such if you have different fundamental beliefs, it's
    necessary to filter -sometimes drastically- an expert's opinions.\r\n\r\n> similar
    emotional connotation\r\n\r\nHow similar? I might agree that it's somewhat similar.
    But considering how many good Cyrillic fonts are out there, it seems very unlikely
    there isn't something better-aligned.\r\n\r\nBTW, if I made an Armenian Trajan,
    do you really think it would seem as \"classy\" (or whatever - see end) as traditional/historic
    Armenian letterform styles? Can Russian visual culture really be bereft of its
    own parameters?\r\n\r\n> what evidence could ever lead you to question your theory?\r\n\r\nGood
    question. But let's start small; long-held theories tend to need to be eroded
    down over time, not demolished in a second. For example over the past ten years
    I've slowly built up my beliefs about readability; one study by one scientist
    will only chip off a small piece of the iceberg at best. An exceptionally good
    study might cause a good-sized crack; but I can't simply dump all the other evidence
    from over the years.\r\n\r\nIn this case, if somebody did a really good survey
    and asked Russians (and not Russian designers mind you) to rank a good number
    of fonts for \"classiness\" and Trajan came out on top, I would certainly acquire
    a seed of doubt. Now, doing such a survey is a tall order, I admit; but that's
    why I said what I said above about \"belief systems\".\r\n\r\nHOWEVER: Please
    note again what I wrote about Trajan not necessarily being \"classy\" in the West
    now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-28 16:41:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I don't see how it's not OK to question what experts say, and suggest/discuss
    alternate theories with an open mind. FWIW, to me that doesn't mean disrespect
    to the experts, but rather a deep interest and curiosity about the issue at hand.*\r\nAnd,
    \"evidence\"? This isn't exact science; in fact I think the point I've been trying
    to make is (and has to be) quite fuzzy, namely:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The issue here
    is what feeling Cyrillic Trajan will give to Cyrillic readers.\"</cite>\r\nActually,
    the question was if Cyrillic Trajan can evoke <em>exactly the same</em> things
    as Latin Trajan. Which isn't quite the same question to ask.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"If
    100% of Cyrillic readers, including those who read languages that use roman type,
    would say that Cyrillic versions of Trajan look classy to them, would you still
    insist that you must be right that Trajan doesn\u2019t have a similar emotional
    connotation for Cyrillic readers?\"</cite>\r\n1) Similar, but like Hrant said:
    How similar?\r\n2) Nobody here has said a Cyrillic Trajan couldn't look \xABclassy\xBB
    (or had to be less \xABclassy\xBB than a Latin Trajan). The point was that a Cyrillic
    Trajan can't mean the exact same thing, within a Cyrillic context, as Trajan does
    in a Latin context, in terms of its cultural connotations; and FWIW I don't even
    think Maxim contradicted this exact point (please correct me if I'm mistaken).\r\nThe
    \xABcultural difference\xBB point we've been raising may, like I said before,
    appear almost negligible in this context; but it's a matter of principle to acknowledge
    that it still exists.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Can Russian visual culture really be bereft
    of its own parameters?\"</cite>\r\nExactly - that was what I tried to get at with
    my \xABlanguage/translation\xBB thing above. Every script has its own \xABdesign
    space\xBB, its own history and culture, like languages have a vocabulary and a
    grammar and a history and an <em>identity</em>; and none of them are exactly alike,
    and exchangeable. Maybe Cyrillic is very similar to Latin, but they're still not
    exchangeable.\r\n\r\n(* BTW, in case it matters: I did study Russian for a couple
    of years [although my Russian is pretty bad now].)"
  created: '2009-12-28 17:45:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Hrant, Nina, I think Maxim's comments do reflect a pretty good survey, even
    though indirect.
  created: '2009-12-28 17:45:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "William, my point was the <em>question</em> is a different one.\r\n\r\n(Edit:
    Sorry \u2013 looks like we crossposted.)"
  created: '2009-12-28 17:52:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Your claim that Maxim took issue with was:\r\n\r\n\"Cyrillic font in the
    same style is presumably not going to have the same feel, or trigger the same
    associations.\"\r\n\r\nThat's the question I've been addressing. \r\n\r\nYou now
    say that the \"question was if Cyrillic Trajan can evoke exactly the same things\".
    \r\n\r\n\"Exactly\" wasn't in what you originally wrote. I would of course acknowledge
    that nothing is exactly the same as anything else, but that wasn't exactly the
    issue :)  "
  created: '2009-12-28 18:14:37'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I think the parallels with translation are illuminating. No translation is
    going to evoke exactly the same things as the original. No two languages are exactly
    alike in the way they express thoughts and feelings. Moreover, the cultural milieu
    of the audiences are different. These problems are multiplied when it comes to
    translating literature, especially poetry.\r\n\r\nThere have been competing opinions
    on how to translate literature throughout the ages. One undying debate, very broadly
    simplified, is between those that would slavishly follow the forms of the source
    language, and those that would try to make the translation as natural as possible
    in the target language.\r\n\r\nThe latter position is intuitive enough. Who doesn't
    want a translation to read well, enough to make you forget that it is a translation?
    However, you might be surprised how many people throughout history argued the
    former position, even taken to extremes. Vladimir Nabokov declared, \"The clumsiest
    literal translation is a thousand times more useful than the prettiest paraphrase.\"
    \r\n\r\nWouldn't wholesale import of forms foreign to the target language get
    in the way of enjoying the piece of literature as the original language readers
    would? And wouldn't the introduction of such unnatural, foreign idioms be detrimental
    to the purity of the language? Perhaps, but there were those throughout history
    who saw this as enrichment of the language and broadening of its expressive potential.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I think we can all agree that it is hopeless to expect a counterpart to Trajan
    in Cyrillic that evokes exactly the same things as the Latin original; it isn't
    even clear what it evokes to the Latin audience anymore. The question is what
    sort of design will be closest&mdash;the best translation, if you will, of Trajan
    in Cyrillic. Those who would copy Trajan's forms slavishly are like those literal
    translators who have no scruples about introducing foreign forms into the language.
    They will have language purists crying foul.\r\n\r\nOver time, some of the foreign
    quirks introduced into the language through such translation become accepted and
    become a natural part of the language, while others remain stilted and unnatural.
    I am not a native reader of Cyrillic, but I can certainly imagine it going either
    way with the forms of monumental Roman capitals adopted into Cyrillic. Or that
    parts of the Cyrillic readership will feel it is an acceptable and naturalized
    part of the Cyrillic palette, and perhaps even that they can claim as much cultural
    ownership to these forms as modern Latin users based on a shared history of idealizing
    Classical Antiquity; while others deem it too foreign, or worse, a fake reconstruction
    of a \"Classical\" Cyrillic that obscures the actual development of classical
    Cyrillic letter forms. Remember, Cyrillic users are as varied a bunch as the Latin
    users."
  created: '2009-12-28 19:37:35'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "<cite>Even a hundred years ago languages such as German and Irish would commonly
    be printed using different forms of the Latin alphabet from the humanist model
    we are familiar with.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is very true. \r\n\r\nTrajan has two
    associations in my mind: a primary association with imperial Rome and a secondary
    association with neo-classical inscriptions dating from the eighteenth century
    onwards.\r\n\r\nMy guess is that a Trajan-inspired Cyrillic would have similar
    associations for a Russian. Clearly, those associations are of foreign origin
    in both Ireland and Russia, but they are also part of a more general European
    patrimony.\r\n\r\nAfter all, Moscow is called the 'third Rome' ...  "
  created: '2009-12-28 19:54:46'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>My guess is that a Trajan-inspired Cyrillic would have similar
    associations for a Russian. Clearly, those associations are of foreign origin
    in both Ireland and Russia, but they are also part of a more general European
    patrimony.</em></li></ul>\r\nPrecisely."
  created: '2009-12-28 20:54:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I just don't understand the dilemma at all, sorry :(\r\n\r\nRussia is part
    of Europe, at least the big western-most cities. And European history is completely
    unimaginable without Russia (both before, during, and after the Soviet era). Just
    look at any history book. \r\n\r\nI'm not Russian, but I bet that Russian children
    learn about the Roman Empire in school. And I bet a lot of Cyrillic readers would
    get Trajan Cyrillic (\"oh, it's supposed to be ROMAN!\"). \r\n\r\nThis is just
    display typography, not a matter of life and death. It isn't like setting a few
    lines of Russian text in Trajan Cyrillic is going to harm Russian Culture, or
    anything else. \r\n\r\nLook at Hollywood posters... Trajan is on it's way out
    anyway (at least for awhile ;-)  ).  "
  created: '2009-12-28 21:39:51'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>The demand for the definitive Cyrillic version of Adobe Trajan is huge,
    and it is not likely to go away. Unauthorised Cyrillisations of Carol Twombly\u2019s
    Trajan abound.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm just curious: Will Adobe ever look into this
    huge demand? How likely is it that there will one day be an authorized Cyrillic
    version of Trajan?"
  created: '2009-12-28 21:45:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Adobe has long been aware of the potential utility of, and market interest
    in, expanded language support for Trajan (and indeed, a number of their existing
    typefaces).\r\n\r\nBeyond that, I think I'll have to defer to current Adobe folks
    to comment.  :)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-12-28 22:31:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks Brian \u2013 you put a lot into [beautiful] words that I had at the
    back of my mind too.\r\n\r\nDan, you don't think it's likely that different scripts
    imply / are connected with different visual cultures, even when they're very close?\r\nDunno,
    I'm not going on about life and death. What baffles me is how otherworldly it
    seems to some that one can question such things. Honestly, to me the question
    itself is beautiful (and not because it \xABproves\xBB something). I believe that
    design, and especially type design, and especially the case of cross-overs from
    one script into another, are very delicate, and ask for much sensitivity for barely
    perceptible shifts. Even if this tectonic fault only causes a barely perceptible
    wobble, it deserves attention. (I still don't believe it's not there, sorry.)"
  created: '2009-12-28 22:43:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Russia is part of Europe\r\n\r\nSo is Armenia, a bit.\r\nThe question is,
    is Russia enough part of Europe*, and are there so few Russian fonts, that a Cyrillic
    Trajan is probably your best bet? It seems extremely unlikely that \"classy\"
    uses almost exactly the same formal language in Russia than it does in London
    or Rome.\r\n\r\n* How many years now, BTW? And have you been to places besides
    Moscow and St Petersburg? Those two contain ~10% of Russia's population; and Novosibirsk
    (Russia's third-largest city) is very different than Europe.\r\n\r\n> This is
    just display typography, not a matter of life and death.\r\n\r\n1) Almost nothing
    in type is that important; but we still do it.\r\n2) Yes, Russian culture is pretty
    secure (especially these days). I haven't even gotten into the power of type to
    forestall cultural assimilation*, I've just focused on Stephen's needs on this
    project.\r\n3) Even among those people who think that there <em>is</em> a difference
    between display and text type, there are many (probably the majority) who think
    that it <em>still</em> doesn't matter in text either.\r\n4) Things are quite different
    display vs text: in the former, formal features actually have <em>more</em> cultural
    weight**, and -being evaluated consciously- they affect direct cultural development
    much more than in text type; in contrast text type might have a deeper and longer-lasting
    cultural effect, but there technical issues take precedence. When you believe
    that it's a good idea to formally map Trajan over to Cyrillic, you're much more
    likely to end up making/supporting Cyrillic text type that's Latinized (but not
    the other way around).\r\n\r\n* Something huge for Armenians for example.\r\n\r\n**
    In display type matching x-heights to me makes sense for example.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIt's
    sad to see so many people from cultures that are formerly or currently seen as
    \"backwards\" go too far in adopting the values and mores of a culture they see
    as \"superior\". Change is good, but don't throw out the baby with the bathwater!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-29 16:09:10'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "<cite>Adobe has long been aware of the potential utility of, and market interest
    in, expanded language support for Trajan (and indeed, a number of their existing
    typefaces).</cite>\r\n\r\nExperiments with expanding the script coverage (among
    other aspects) in Trajan have proceeded to a fairly advanced stage this year.
    But like everyone else, we wrestle with the trade-offs that come with finite time
    & resources. Doing one project means not doing another, and in-demand as it might
    be, an improved Trajan hasn't yet become the top priority. So an extended Trajan
    is increasingly likely, but not yet a certainty.\r\n- thanks,\r\n  David L"
  created: '2009-12-30 06:22:12'
- author:
    name: andrijtype
    picture: 110703
  body: "beautiful cyrillic Goudy Trajan is available <strong>for free</strong>: [[http://www.castletype.com/html/tipoteca/goudy-trajan-regular.html]]\r\n\r\nthis
    cyrillic is very nice\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1266121256008492_4379.png]"
  created: '2009-12-30 13:12:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Andrijko, that version of Trajan is obviously more indebted to Adobe Trajan
    than to [[http://www.ascenderfonts.com/font/goudy-forum-pro.aspx|Goudy Forum]],
    Goudy''s interpretation of the letters on the Trajan Column. '
  created: '2009-12-30 14:35:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "William, apart from Goudy Forum, there\u2019s also a <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/castletype/goudy-trajan/\">Goudy
    Trajan</a>."
  created: '2009-12-30 14:46:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Florian, you're right, I forgot about Goudy Trajan. But when I checked McGrew's
    American Metal Typefaces, the Castle revival still seems to owe more to Adobe's
    version than to Goudy's. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GoudyTrajan_6147.gif]\r\n\r\nAs
    Castle notes on MyFonts, he doesn't follow Goudy at all on the figures; these
    do resemble Adobe's also. "
  created: '2009-12-30 15:47:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The only good Trajan figures were done by Catich.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-30 15:52:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: In a bit of web searching, I found Romul from ParaType, so someone in Russia
    has tried to create a typeface embodying the spirit of Trajan.
  created: '2012-04-21 19:21:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The Cyrillic and Greek extensions to Adobe Trajan are now available, under
    the name <a href=\"http://store1.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/1952.pdf\">Trajan
    Pro 3</a>.\r\n\r\nI have to say that I'm disappointed not to see an 'Imperial
    Omega' glyph variant."
  created: '2012-04-21 20:08:22'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<blockquote>I have to say that I'm disappointed not to see an 'Imperial Omega'
    glyph variant</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOh my. Where is a Facebook \u201CLike\u201D
    button when you need it!"
  created: '2012-04-22 09:50:35'
date: '2009-12-27 14:23:35'
title: multilingual alternative to Trajan

---
