---
author:
  name: firebrewd
body: "What are your thoughts about tracing or redrawing fonts? I know it's unethical,
  and maybe ilegal some times, but what about when you don't have the budget to buy
  a font family, but would like to use it on your projects? And by tracing, I mean
  doing the curves from zero, using the font as a guide, then using the vector shapes
  to \"set\" the type.\r\n\r\nIt happened to me when I worked on a little shop where
  the projects had a very little budget. We focused on poster design, and surprisingly,
  each poster design costed about what a regular font costs. We loved Helvetica, but
  obviously didn't have the money to buy it, so one time we thought about drawing
  all the characteres and setting each one of them manually in our projects. We didn't,
  and instead, focused on using free or really cheap fonts...\r\n\r\nI started thinking
  about it again, and would like to hear the thoughts of typographers and type enthusiasts."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me, if it doesn't end up as a font in other people's hands, you're OK.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    if it's anything more than like a dozen letters it's probably\r\nmore cost-effective
    to just buy the thing! A good trace is hard work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 06:49:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The economic argument makes no sense. $30 for a font usable by five people
    forever is a bargain. How much of your time does $30 buy, 20 minutes, half an
    hour? How long does it take to trace and space the font? How much electricity,
    coffee and oxygen do you consume during that process?\r\n\r\nAs a personal academic
    exercise however the process may be interesting, providing as Hrant says the font
    doesn't escape into the wild. \r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 16:00:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon: but some fonts cost over $1000.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 16:09:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">but some fonts cost over $1000.\r\n\r\nI think you're confusing fonts with
    handbags? ;-)"
  created: '2009-12-31 16:22:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "how accurate a tracer are you?\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n-=\xAE=-\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-12-31 16:25:39'
- author:
    name: firebrewd
  body: "I understand the point about buying it being more cost-effective than tracing
    the entire family, but in my case, time doesn't necessarily means money. It was
    something like a part-time job back then, and I employed my free time in other
    not so interesting things.\r\n\r\nAlso, it'd be a pretty good way to understand
    a typography, as one would have to take enough time looking at the characters
    and their lines and curves.\r\n\r\nI believe I can make a pretty accurate trace
    of Helvetica. "
  created: '2009-12-31 20:43:54'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "In the sign industry, profit margins are very slim. There are times when
    we get art from clients, either printed or digital, without their <em>special</em>
    font. If the font does break my almost non existant software budget, and if I
    can use it on future projects, I'll buy it. Sometimes (rarely) if a client intends
    to use a font in a lot of signage I'll negotiate it into the price of the job.
    But, if the single weight or smallest package is cost prohibitive, I'll trace
    that sucker in a heartbeat. And, I'm fast. By the time you figure the time it
    takes to find the font and the purchase price, they add up very quickly. If there
    are only a few letters, tracing is cheaper assuming that the sample is good enough.
    Competition in the sign industry is such that the difference of $30 bucks can
    cost you the job. \r\n\r\nHowever, in the case suggested by firbrewd, I'd just
    bite the bullet and buy the damn thing or use what is available. I hate copying
    other people's stuff.\r\n\r\nSorry, I forgot the question...\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://www.thefontry.com|<em>...from
    the Fontry </em>]]"
  created: '2009-12-31 21:01:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I believe I can make a pretty accurate trace of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nlike this...
    http://www.flickr.com/photos/nicksherman/1063935926/ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 00:40:36'
- author:
    name: firebrewd
  body: ">like this... http://www.flickr.com/photos/nicksherman/1063935926/\r\n\r\nYes...
    but on software. ;)"
  created: '2010-01-01 01:02:54'
- body: "sii, your argument is valid, but only for people who actually have the money
    in the first place. You'd surprised how many people don't have thirty dollars
    left after paying for monthly essentials - like food and shelter. For those people,
    time is genuinely all they have to spend; and many students/working poor have
    little other choice. \r\n\r\nThis reality is one of the many reasons I positively
    loathe design contests and spec work! It's trickle down poverty; the designers
    can't afford to buy fonts, so the type designers sell fewer fonts. "
  created: '2010-01-01 01:18:54'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: I find this discussion interesting. Mr. Papazian, what if someone were to
    trace a font for an identity project (commercial or personal)? Would you consider
    that unethical?
  created: '2010-01-01 02:00:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know it would be illegal in some countries, but to me it's not unethical;
    and it's a loss type designers have to bear. The alternative is worse. The saving
    grace however is that pragmatically, if a person spends the time re-creating a
    font*, it probably means he couldn't have afforded to buy it anyway. And we should
    actually be very grateful the person hasn't stooped to the level of outright piracy.\r\n\r\n*
    Not an easy task at all.\r\n\r\nBTW, please call me Hrant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 02:11:28'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I just released my version of Kabel. I named it Kaapeli.\r\n\r\nBut I never
    traced or copied any of the glyphs or any other parts of the typeface: I just
    made my own interpritation of the Koch original, with my own preferences. The
    digitized versions are not very good in my opinion any way, and many original
    single glyphs have issues as well, so I just went along and made my own version.\r\n\r\nI
    say that without Kabel I would not have made this font, but is Kaapeli Kabel?
    No. I would think it's like another version of Helvetica or Futura or Garamond
    or and so on."
  created: '2010-01-01 02:29:16'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: Thanks for sharing your opinion on such a delicate matter, Hrant :^)
  created: '2010-01-01 02:34:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I know it would be illegal in some countries, but to me it\u2019s
    not unethical; and it\u2019s a loss type designers have to bear. The alternative
    is worse. The saving grace however is that pragmatically, if a person spends the
    time re-creating a font*, it probably means he couldn\u2019t have afforded to
    buy it anyway.</em>\r\n\r\n???!\r\n\r\nThe question regarded \u2018tracing a font
    for an identity project (commercial or personal)\u2019. If the project were personal,
    I'd be willing to let it go, but <em>any</em> commercial identity project should
    have a budget big enough to comfortably include a font license and there is no
    excuse for not paying for one. A typeface may contribute massively to an identity
    project and, if it forms the main constituent of the identity I'd say that a standard
    per-user license fee would be incredibly cheap for the value gained from that
    typeface. [This is why Restraint is licensed under a different model for use in
    identity work: a recognition that typefaces have different value depending on
    their use.]\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 02:57:25'
- author:
    name: firebrewd
  body: "Interesting points of view, everyone.\r\n\r\nI don't know how well known
    it is, but in developing countries, identity design, for example, isn't considered
    as something that should be paid considerably, with a budget that could include
    the purchase of a whole type family \u2014 just design as usual, with low pay
    as usual. I've had this debate many times, if tracing some letterforms to make
    a logo would be ethical or not, because in the first place, you aren't copying
    the 'font' itself, and second, you'd be tracing a few letters (let's say the logotype
    is Pepsi). Would it be fair to pay full price for five letterforms?\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I'm not degrading the work of the typographer at all, and in fact, I think
    it's one of the most important pieces of a design project, but sometimes, the
    price of a font should be considered. Wouldn't it be fair to pay less for a font
    on a project of a five letters logo, than on one involving heavy use of the font,
    as in a magazine? It should be also considered that you could manually set the
    type of the logo (thus ignoring the 'font' or programming aspect of the type),
    just using the vectors, but in a magazine, you need advanced options that a good
    font will provide, like kerning pairs, ligatures, extended latin characters, and
    so on.\r\n\r\nAlso, we could make some exceptions here. Sometimes a font is so
    heavily used (like Helvetica or Arial) that \"it feels light air \u2014 it's just
    there\", that one wonders if it could apply for a more open licence of some sort,
    or use a way lower price than regular fonts. Could be used for another debate."
  created: '2010-01-01 08:18:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: "This discussion touches on something that has been bothering me for a while
    now. My case is different from the scenario described above, as there was no font
    file produced at all \u2013 I simply drew and \"kerned\" the glyphs required to
    build four words using images of an existing font as a starting point. \r\n\r\nWhile
    looking at some sketches for a masthead for [[http://www.danpetter.net/|my website]],
    I registered a substancial inspiration by an existing font, the wonderful [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/ars_type/ars_maquette_black/|Maquette
    Black]]. Even so, I didn't want to plainly set it in Maquette for a number of
    reasons: some of its proportions and glyph shapes were not right for my purposes,
    and felt I had to add/exaggerate some contrast here and there; also, a license
    would set me back almost \u20AC200, as Maquette is available as a 5-font-package
    only. Still, I figured I could save some time <em>and</em> produce a much better
    result if I used Maquette Black as a starting point. So I set the four words online,
    traced the resulting screenshots and developed my own design from there.\r\n\r\nI've
    dealt with an amorphous feeling of remorse ever since, blaming myself for harvesting
    the fruit of another designers legwork. The tenor of this thread offers some relief
    from those worries."
  created: '2010-01-01 16:07:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: edited...nevermind
  created: '2010-01-01 16:16:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> any commercial identity project should have a budget\r\n> big enough to
    comfortably include a font license\r\n\r\nAlmost any, I agree. But there are exceptions.\r\n\r\nLet
    me be clear though - to me it's not OK if:\r\n- it results in a font in any hands
    besides the designer's.\r\n- the font could be afforded, the person just wants
    to save a few bucks.\r\n\r\nOf course the second point is a thorny gray area,
    but so is life!\r\n\r\n> Wouldn\u2019t it be fair to pay less for a font on a
    project of a five letters\r\n> logo, than on one involving heavy use of the font,
    as in a magazine?\r\n\r\nSome people did exactly that during the phototype age,
    and first URW and then Letterror tried it for digital fonts a while ago (but I
    guess it didn't really fly).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 17:04:34'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "This is a weird thread. Why on earth would you want to trace Helvetica?\r\nDo
    you honestly think you can knock up a good copy for less than your time is worth
    buying the font?"
  created: '2010-01-01 17:34:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Typefaces represent added value in a design project. If they didn't, then
    one could just use Courier for everything. Designers select particular typefaces
    because they add value to the overall design in some way. So, it makes sense to
    consider the value and hence the appropriate cost of a typeface in terms of the
    added value, rather than in terms of either number of users of a font or quantity
    of text set in the font. This is why it makes no sense to me to suggest that using
    a typeface in a logotype that uses only five letters should cost less than using
    the same typeface to set the text of a magazine, because it is entirely likely
    that the added value in the logotype project is much higher than in the magazine.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I think your two criteria under which tracing is unacceptable miss what seems
    to me the real problem: that someone other than the designer or licensed vendor/user
    of those letters is <em>profiting</em> -- either directly or in added value --
    from the use of those letters. Simply put, it is exploitation of another's work
    and creativity to create wealth or value without compensating that person. I put
    it in the same category as failing to pay wages for work done.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the case of developing countries, why ape the design of the industrialised nations
    by copying fonts? Why not encourage domestic creativity and the work of local
    lettering artists, sign painters, etc., which may in turn develop into a domestic
    type design business."
  created: '2010-01-01 20:25:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I see your point, and it's certainly not without merit. In my pragmatic world
    view however \"reasonableness\" is classed higher than issues of formal rights/property
    etc. An admittedly exaggerated scenario that does however have relevance: If your
    kid sister is starving, it's OK to steal food from somebody who will not miss
    it much. I think this sort of perspective makes the planet -where we <em>all</em>
    live together- a better, more balanced place. You could even say that the person
    who has the food stolen from him is thus living in a better world, in a way that
    perhaps he could achieve on his own.\r\n\r\nThe alternative is worse, and to me
    that over-rides\r\nany person's or even any society's moral values.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 20:39:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "firebrewd:\r\n\r\n1) > What are your thoughts about tracing or redrawing
    fonts? I know it\u2019s unethical ...\r\n\r\n2) > We loved Helvetica, but obviously
    didn\u2019t have the money to buy it\r\n\r\nShort answers for Europe:\r\n\r\n1)
    Tracing etc. is forbidden for a maximum period of 25 years for registered font
    designs.\r\n\r\nsee e.g. www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe.pdf\r\n\r\n2) Tracing
    etc. is allowed, if the period of protection for registered fonts has expired.\r\n\r\nsee
    e.g. www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain2.pdf\r\n\r\nBoth Helvetica and Neue
    Helvetica are public domain now."
  created: '2010-01-01 20:40:04'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Regardless of whether it is legitimate or not,\r\nit's still madness to trace
    a inexpensive font!\r\nHrant, this might interest you:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/8425420.stm\r\n\r\nThe
    guy got nailed (excuse the pun) but I'm\r\ninclined to agree with him.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-01 21:20:30'
- author:
    name: firebrewd
  body: "> Regarding the case of developing countries, why ape the design of the industrialised
    nations by copying fonts? Why not encourage domestic creativity and the work of
    local lettering artists, sign painters, etc., which may in turn develop into a
    domestic type design business.\r\n\r\nIts's easier said than done. Clients are
    the ones demanding certain typefaces, not designers themselves. However, I see
    your point, and it's a valid one.\r\n\r\nHrant: That's exactly what I was trying
    to explain, well put. I think it'd be pretty hard to let one's sister die instead
    of just taking some food from a supermarket, and it's clear why.\r\n\r\nUli: Awesome
    find! Where did you read about the public domain types? Seems like it's just what
    I was looking for, astounding. It just covers the traces of the typography, but
    not the font itself, right?\r\n\r\n1985: \"Inexpensive\" is relative to a project,
    and in the conditions I described, the fonts are hardly inexpensive."
  created: '2010-01-02 12:41:07'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Could not afford to buy Helvetica?\r\n\r\nEvery commercial OS since the beginning
    of computing has had a version of H included. So where is the beef?\r\n\r\n .
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2010-01-02 12:48:04'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "@ 1985:\r\nSo who\u2019s gonna judge whether someone is poor enough to be
    allowed to steal? Father Jones? The f***ing church of England? :P\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\nIs
    it more unethical to spend a lot of time and effort by tracing a font (NOT nicking
    vector data) for a personal project than to use a font like Arial or Segoe, both
    fonts that differ (rather less than more) from their \u201Cmasters\u201D?"
  created: '2010-01-02 13:05:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>\u201CInexpensive\u201D is relative to a project, and in the conditions
    I described, the fonts are hardly inexpensive.</em>\r\n\r\nSure, relative. But
    there's a threshold price for tools, a start up cost that is recouped across subsequent
    projects. Like a carpenter buying tools. They might be seen as expensive to begin
    with, but the cost is recouped as they are used. It's the same with graphic design.
    It's the same with any similar business. A photographer buys a camera, so on,
    so forth."
  created: '2010-01-02 13:06:21'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>So who\u2019s gonna judge whether someone is poor enough to be allowed
    to steal? Father Jones? The f***ing church of England? :P</em>\r\n\r\nI just thought
    it was a relevant parallel! I couldn't really care less what the church says."
  created: '2010-01-02 13:10:55'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "firebrewd:\r\n\r\n> It just covers the traces of the typography, but not
    the font itself, right?\r\n\r\nTraces of the typography? Please be more specific."
  created: '2010-01-02 14:49:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So who\u2019s gonna judge whether someone\r\n> is poor enough to be allowed
    to steal? \r\n\r\nThe usual person: yourself.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 16:25:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n<em>This is why it makes no sense to me to suggest that
    using a typeface in a logotype that uses only five letters should cost less than
    using the same typeface to set the text of a magazine, because it is entirely
    likely that the added value in the logotype project is much higher than in the
    magazine.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. You <em>should</em> be paid for the value of
    the contribution, not paid by the glyph.\r\n(But I can hear some customers arguing
    with you about that, though.)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-01-02 20:10:35'
- author:
    name: firebrewd
  body: "1985: Yes, but in this case, the tool can be acquired either with money or
    with time.\r\n\r\nUli: I refer to the design of the typographies themselves, not
    the fonts (the \"program\")."
  created: '2010-01-02 22:25:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: OK, fair enough. Good luck!
  created: '2010-01-02 22:37:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Clients are the ones demanding certain typefaces\"\r\n\r\nThen demand they
    pay for them.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 23:01:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>In my pragmatic world view however \u201Creasonableness\u201D
    is classed higher than issues of formal rights/property etc.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think I was making a case in terms of formal rights or property. I was making
    a case in terms of work and value, which seems to me emminently reasonable: the
    person who does work, including creative work, should be a financial beneficiary
    of that work -- ideally, to my thinking, the primary beneficiary, which puts me
    at odds with both capitalism and piracy --, and the financial benefit should be
    relative to the wealth or value derived from that work."
  created: '2010-01-03 00:42:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the person who does work, including creative work,\r\n> should be a financial
    beneficiary of that work\r\n\r\nSure. My point was that if/when that doesn't happen,\r\nit's
    not necessarily because anybody acted unethically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 01:24:03'
date: '2009-12-31 06:34:46'
node_type: forum
title: Tracing a Font?

---
