---
author:
  name: matteson
  picture: 110454
body: "I have a question (or two) about weight interpolation schemes.  \r\n\r\nMy
  question regards, in part, Luc(as) de Groot's method. It seems to be, more or less,
  Palladio's 'geometric mean', or the maths that govern equal temperament of fixed-pitch
  musical instruments. So I'm wondering if the compulsion to use that particular mathematical
  series is based on something more than just convenience or mathematical ease. Is
  there something about it that I'm missing? \r\n\r\nI'm certainly not the most prolific
  or accomplished type designer, but my own personal work-flow doesn't mesh with the
  geometric mean method. That method seems to demand that you draw 2 weights, and
  let the geometric mean determine the third (and the weights amongst them). On the
  few occasions I draw fonts, I draw the 'medium' weight, then the lightest and darkest
  weights. And I'd like to interpolate intermediate weights from there. \r\n\r\nIt
  seems that if you have three stem weights already drawn, and know how many 'steps'
  you'd like between them, you can (fairly) easily determine a quadratic equation
  that defines the intermediate weights. \r\n\r\nWe have values for x and y (see the
  graph below), x being the 'weight' or 'step', y being the stem width. Given that
  the form of a quadratic equation is y&nbsp;=&nbsp;Ax^2&nbsp;+&nbsp;Bx&nbsp;+&nbsp;C--and
  using our three predetermined stem widths and steps within the weight scheme--we
  can easily figure out what A, B, and C equal. Then it's merely a matter of plugging
  in the 'steps' we desire (as x in our generic quadratic equation), and the values
  for A, B, and C we just sorted, and we get our stem weights.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QUAD_3901.png]\r\n\r\nThe
  graph above shows a hypothetical situation in which you want your lightest weight
  to have stems of 25 units, medium weight 100 units, heaviest weight 255 units, and
  3 weights in between. \r\n\r\nThe GM L+M curve shows the interpolated weights using
  the geometric mean system when you start with the light and medium weights. In order
  to get the amount of heavy weights desired, you need to draw a font with stems 435
  units wide. If we give up the heaviest weight, we still need to draw a font with
  301 unit stems.\r\n\r\nThe GM M+D curve assumes that you start with medium and darkest
  weights. To get to a 25 unit stem, you need to draw two extra light weights.\r\n\r\nBut
  the quadratic curve closely matches the top and bottom 'halves' of these two curves.
  \r\n\r\nIs this a case of 'six of one, half-a-dozen of the other'? Or is there some
  fundamental aspect of the geometric mean that I'm not understanding, that makes
  it desirable? Other that it being one of the classical mathematical series that
  we find 'aesthetically pleasing'."
comments:
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: For aesthetically pleasing, eyeball it.
  created: '2010-01-01 07:37:30'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "I have my doubts Lucas used his own method for his current font projects.\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2010-01-01 11:54:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think that Lucas\u2019s theory is intended as a starting point for planning
    a family and not as an exact mathematical model for final font development."
  created: '2010-01-01 15:39:04'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "<cite>For aesthetically pleasing, eyeball it.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're certainly
    right. I wind up tweaking the crap out of everything I interpolate anyway, so
    worrying about the math is probably pointless. I guess I'd just like to know that
    the ballpark I'm shooting for isn't ridiculous.\r\n\r\n<cite>I have my doubts
    Lucas used his own method for his current font projects.</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    I don't have the Thesis family, but it'd be intriguing to measure the stems and
    see how closely they fit the model.\r\n\r\nWell, I have my own petty beefs with
    equal temperament in music anyhow, so I'll just keep on keepin' on with with my
    quadratic scheme. Thanks for the comments."
  created: '2010-01-01 15:46:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/32313\">Here</a> are some thoughts
    I had. I am working on a font that has six weights and it seems to work, based
    on the geometric progression (b^2=ac where b is the optical midpoint of a and
    c). Using a quadratic suggests to me that your three starting weights aren't 'pure'
    and that your lightest weight (hypothetically at least) is not zero units thick
    (otherwise you wouldn't need a C in the quadratic equation.\r\n\r\nFor me, either
    your medium and dark weights (yellow line) are too far apart (gradient is too
    steep) or your light and medium (red line) are not close enough together (gradient
    is too shallow). Either way, I'd work out which of the two relationships I'm happier
    with and then finding out where the other weight ought to fall using the geometric
    mean.\r\n\r\nI'm not saying I'm right. The quadratic route may be better."
  created: '2010-01-01 20:05:17'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "<cite>I think that Lucas\u2019s theory is intended as a starting point for
    planning a family and not as an exact mathematical model for final font development.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    I'm just trying to find a reasonable way to quickly interpolate some rough weights.
    Although the amount of time I've spent dinking around doesn't suggest this to
    be a very fast method. Enjoyable -- but not fast. And most likely unreasonable
    :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>your lightest weight (hypothetically at least) is not zero units
    thick (otherwise you wouldn\u2019t need a C in the quadratic equation.</cite>\r\n\r\nOriginally
    I thought that there'd be a way to have the lightest weight fall at the vertex
    of the equation. That would be the 'hypothetical zero' as I see it, since my lightest
    weight won't have a stem width of zero. \r\n\r\nNot sure it's a viable solution
    though. Perhaps some other curve...\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019d work out which of the
    two relationships I\u2019m happier with and then finding out where the other weight
    ought to fall using the geometric mean.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo doubt good advice."
  created: '2010-01-01 20:32:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I generally create 20 to 30 different instances between the 0 and 1000 axes,
    print them out and then begin my decision making process taking into account that
    each lighter weigh must get a corresponding heavier weight to function as its
    bold. Where does the medium weight fall and how many weights on each side of the
    medium does the design support?\r\n\r\nWill the Medium be the classic 1:5 stroke
    width to height ratio, or something different?\r\n\r\nNot a quick process at all."
  created: '2010-01-01 22:32:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nathan, great thread to start.\r\n\r\nI don't know how much Luc[as] deviates
    from his method (it should be not too difficult to check), but I think it's generally
    quite sound; this is because it deals with human perception, not taste. The important
    thing to remember is that it's not meant to determine what weight is best for
    a Regular or any \"master\" weight. The point of it is to find a weight between
    two masters that looks equidistant from the two (and by extension you could split
    the range into more than two halves and get weights that span the segment equally).\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, as Nick says, if you have three master weights that are not nicely spaced,
    your intermediates aren't going to like each other. And this leads to another
    -more troublesome- issue, the one James noted: fonts tend to be used in pairs;
    typographers often use one weight for the body and something else for secondary
    stuff, so they need that pairing more than they need all the weights to play nice
    with each other, which means equidistance isn't really a big requirement. However,
    if you have a fine enough gradation in a font family (something that does appeal
    to me) this is less of an issue.\r\n\r\n> I wind up tweaking the crap out of everything
    I interpolate anyway\r\n\r\nIf you're tweaking the stuff between the extremes,
    either:\r\n- you're an exceptional type designer,\r\n- the design does not lend
    itself to interpolation,\r\nand/or\r\n- your extremes are not good enough.\r\n\r\nIn
    my case it's never the first, rarely the second, almost always the third. What
    I'm getting at is: in general I recommend tweaking the crap out of the extremes
    until you get to 99% of the intermediates you want*. It's often overhead well
    spent.\r\n\r\n* It might seem nuts, but I dump my original Regular once I have
    an optimal weight axis going.\r\n\r\n> I generally create 20 to 30 different instances\r\n\r\nFor
    Nour&Patria, I had to worry not only about the weights in the Latin playing nice
    and the weights in the Armenian playing nice, but since the system assumed in-line
    mixing of the two scripts I had to make sure the two scripts play nice with each
    other as well! So I got velox output of 5% increments between the lightest and
    the darkest* for each of the 5 typefaces (which means I guess 21 for each), cut
    up all the paragraphs into rectangles, and went through two grueling days of putting
    them all next to each other and doing Olympic Squinting! I don't think I've ever
    had to focus that intensely for that long in my life. Oh, and I made each Italic
    match the color of the Roman one step lighter (a useful trick).\r\n\r\n* Which
    actually happens to be a much-smaller-than-usual difference in N&P, like the range
    in Rotis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 00:30:17'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "Thanks for the responses, James and Hrant.\r\n\r\n<cite>- you\u2019re an
    exceptional type designer,\r\n- the design does not lend itself to interpolation,
    \r\nand/or\r\n- your extremes are not good enough.</cite>\r\n\r\nI can guarantee
    it's not the first; could well be due to the second; and is almost certainly caused
    by the third.\r\n\r\n<cite>Oh, and I made each Italic match the color of the Roman
    one step lighter</cite>\r\n\r\nVery cool.\r\n\r\n<cite>Not a quick process at
    all.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think what I'm looking for maybe isn't a process that's quick,
    so much as a process that helps me thread through the following two obstacles:\r\n\r\n(1)
    IMHO, the 'geometric mean' method can have a tendency to create families that
    are quite bland. Maybe that's not quite the right word. But as Hrant notes, because
    of the maths, the proportions amongst all the steps are <em>exactly</em> the same--'equidistant'
    as Hrant says. The pay-off is that these faces tend to be very flexible as far
    as combining a variety of weights on a page is concerned.\r\n\r\n(2) I find that
    some faces I use -- ones that obviously aren't based on a geometric mean -- can
    be somewhat restrictive. As though the hand of the type-designer is so apparent,
    that it suggests certain ways the face should be used. I can't think of a specific
    font of the top of my head; but, for example, a particular weight works great
    as a bold companion to another -- but not so hot as an intermediate weight between
    the two adjacent weights. Or, there are times when I think a demibold is a better
    bold than the 'actual' bold.\r\n\r\nNot to say that aren't times when the face
    should suggest how it wants to be used. But I don't think it's a solution for
    every typeface.\r\n\r\nI'd very much like the project I'm working on to be a utilitarian
    face--so I'm loathe to suggest too heavily to the end user which faces are the
    appropriate bolds for others. Yet I'd like it to have a bit more 'character' (again,
    for lack of a better term at hand) than the geometric mean might lend.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that the work-flow that James and Hrant mention is pretty similar. And since
    I admire the work of each of them, I'd probably be saved much aggravation and
    trigonometry by following their advice. But what fun would that be!? ;-) It's
    fortuitous that I have a seedy love affair with spreadsheet applications.\r\n\r\nBAD
    ANALOGY BELOW. BEWARE ALL YE WHO ENTER HERE:\r\n\r\nMusic is probably a bad analogy,
    but I can't help comparing the weights in a typeface to the notes in a scale.
    The geometric mean is equal temperament in music (the math is the same). And you
    can play in every key equally well -- but everything is equally out of tune, except
    the octaves. And the major third is damn near unplayable. Then there's Pythagorean
    tuning, or perhaps Mean tone temperament, where you can play in a few keys beautifully
    and in tune, but other keys are unusable. \r\n\r\nWhat's in the middle of those
    two is what I find intriguing. The variety of 'well' tempered systems, particularly
    Bach's (or what some think is/was Bach's). Where you can play in every key, but
    each key has its own <em>Affekt</em> since the notes <em>aren't</em> equidistant
    from one another. In each key, some notes are more 'in tune' than others.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then I think: why does the family have to 'play in each key' anyway? In my own
    work, I (almost) always use the regular/medium/book/whatever weight as the 'musical'
    root or tonic or fundamental. And the heavier and lighter weights are 'intervals'
    of that. But, I suppose assuming all of the end users will work that way is being
    prescriptive, which is what I would like to avoid."
  created: '2010-01-02 03:08:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're putting good thought into all this - thanks for sharing.\r\n\r\n>
    It seems that the work-flow that James\r\n> and Hrant mention is pretty similar.\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    but James is a better model to follow overall, not least because he's far more
    productive, experienced and successful than I am.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 03:20:23'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "Oh, incidentally, as an aside, there's another way to find the geometric
    mean series than the b^2=ac equation. One that's useful if you don't want/need
    to have a weight exactly in between the extremes. For anyone interested...\r\n\r\nYou
    have your light and dark extremes--let's say the light is 20UPM and the dark is
    260. And you want 6 weights in between them. That's a total of 8 weights, with
    seven 'steps' from light to dark.\r\n\r\nYou can easily calculate a 'constant'
    to determine the weights in the series: (260/20)^(1/7). Or: darkest weight divided
    by lightest weight raised to the power of one over the amount of steps.\r\n\r\nMultiply
    the light weight by the constant to get the next weight. Multiply that weight
    to get the next, etc. After seven steps, you'll be at your darkest weight. Or
    you can start at the darkest weight and divide by the constant.\r\n\r\nAs far
    as planning ahead for a geometric mean series, I find this equation to be a bit
    easier or more flexible to work with.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 03:20:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'The thing that struck me when I tried to apply to formula to my Reading MATD
    design was that the jumps in weight didn''t seem to correspond to what I wanted
    see. The changes were either too subtle or gross. This might not be true for another
    design - I have yet to try in on a sans for instance. But I suspect similar things
    will happen. But beyond that I also think that the scale the type will be used
    at is also factor. The jump you need at 36 points is probably different from what
    you need at 6 - and will probably follow to some extent pattern of type for small
    sizes needing features to be more robust.And finally it seems like testing the
    type outside of purely optical terms and thinking about it in document terms where
    implied semantic differences which make use of these changes need to be slight
    (or great) is also important. '
  created: '2010-01-02 07:16:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "See also: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/39376\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/32313\r\n\r\nand
    also my own ancient thread\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2811"
  created: '2010-01-02 07:18:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "> Oh, incidentally, as an aside, there\u2019s another way to find the geometric
    mean series...\r\n\r\nCheers, Nathan. That is an interesting and very helpful
    formula.\r\n\r\nLike others here, I have really enjoyed this thread. I like the
    thought that there is some deep maths involved here. It makes me think that God
    is very clever. I also love the fact that optics alone can find robust solutions
    to these challenges without needing to know the maths (if there are any!)\r\n\r\nMy
    challenge is less how to find the mean weight(s) between two others and more how
    to know how much thicker on weight should be from the next to work as a robust
    family. This is where the golden section began to fascinate me. I was also convinced
    that if you were to use the golden section for the difference between a roman
    and a bold, that you could only satisfactorily have one intermediate weight between
    them."
  created: '2010-01-02 13:50:17'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>My challenge is less how to find the mean weight(s) between two others
    and more how to know how much thicker on weight should be from the next to work
    as a robust family. </cite>\r\n\r\nPick the ones that look the best.\r\n\r\nAgain
    paraphrasing Duke Ellington, \"If it looks good, it is good.\""
  created: '2010-01-02 14:48:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "> Not a quick process at all.\r\n\r\nJames, maybe you should try a geometric
    progression, it might be quicker!\r\n\r\nIt might even look good ;o)"
  created: '2010-01-02 15:18:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I'm happy with my process Nick, and I'm not looking for a quicker one, I
    work fast enough. Taking a bit of time here and there is where the fun lies.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 15:49:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For myself, the main reason I haven't used any weight-interpolation math
    is that I don't make enough fonts! I work too slow for it to really help. :-/
    \ But otherwise I'm a big believer in math, and in fact did use some in the designing
    of N&P: I used letter-frequency analysis to decide the relative vertical proportions
    of the Latin and Armenian - see here:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html\r\nIn
    that case math saved me from a ludicrous amount of iteration.\r\n\r\nBTW, a bit
    off-topic, but: Another technical trick I use is to make a given character in
    each weight a predictable \"distance\" in letterspacing from the other weights;
    so for example using -5 tracking on the Bold might make it width-identical to
    the Regular; this is useful in cases where the typographer wants to change the
    weight without affecting linebreaks for example.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 17:18:07'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "I think that designers like James -- who have an enormous amount of experience
    drawing letters, and looking at letters they've drawn -- bring a wealth of empirical
    knowledge to bear on their process. And whether or not that knowledge can really
    be articulated, it forms a very sophisticated system of decision-making.\r\n\r\nDesigners,
    such as myself, who lack that wealth of experience, have to (or feel like they
    have to) find some other means of generating a similar system to inform their
    decision-making. Which is where math seems helpful. Even though there's always
    the chance that it is, in fact, not helpful at all.\r\n\r\nI'm beginning to think
    that I'm approaching this whole affair backwards. I'm hoping that there's some
    actual perceptual phenomena that would recommend certain weighting schemes. But
    without understanding the physiology, tinkering with the math is probably useless
    as far as forming a useful, rational system is concerned. But damn, it's still
    a fun hobby-horse to ride.\r\n\r\nThe other thing I'm sure I've turned around
    is the attempt to compare a musical scale to weights in a typeface. I know less
    than nothing about the cognitive processes of the brain, but I'm pretty sure that
    the auditory distinctions we make are very different than the visual ones.\r\n\r\nIf
    you take someone who's 'musically ignorant', and play them a perfectly tuned interval,
    and one that's slightly out of tune, they can hear the difference -- and typically
    pick out the one that's more \"in tune\". I don't think that the human eye is
    capable of discerning differences as slight as the ones that we can hear in the
    musical world. Not that there aren't people who have that level of visual acuity
    -- some highly skilled designers, and some autists maybe. But it's the exception
    not the rule.\r\n\r\nI.e., I can hear the awfulness of the major third on a guitar
    (which is one reason to turn the volume to 11, and overdrive your tubes!) -- but
    I can't think of a way that that same, slight, grating hideousness could be visible
    in the weights of a typeface. Not in the same way. I was fiddling with a 'well
    tempered' weight distribution this morning, and even a 4096 UPM em doesn't have
    sufficient granularity to render the differences between that an a geometric mean.\r\n\r\n<cite>using
    -5 tracking on the Bold might make it width-identical to the Regular</cite>\r\n\r\nNifty
    trick. Seems like another way to give the end user a bit more leverage.\r\n\r\nEben:
    Thanks for those links. I obviously didn't do my due diligence in looking up previous
    threads."
  created: '2010-01-02 17:47:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m beginning to think that I\u2019m approaching this whole affair
    backwards.\r\n\r\nMaybe, but not necessarily. Lacking certain information, it
    might be entirely advisable to reverse-engineer this. You come up with something,
    test it, refine it. Rinse, repeat.\r\n\r\nI remember when I was a teen I concocted
    a nicely elaborate formula for predicting the 0-60 time for a car based on its
    weight, HP, and I don't remember what else. I could have done this by learning
    about mechanics etc. first or done some intelligent research, but that would have
    been hard in the 1980s (in Beirut) so I reverse-engineered it (which additionally
    appealed to my particular character). It worked out quite well.\r\n\r\n> The other
    thing I\u2019m sure I\u2019ve turned around is the attempt\r\n> to compare a musical
    scale to weights in a typeface. \r\n\r\nGood.\r\nI'm personally no fan of strongly
    linking reading and listening.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 18:15:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Before I started designing and making type, I had a long career as a magazine
    art director. I now make the type that I wish I had when I was in that role. Experience
    aside, I think the only thing that should inform your work is what looks good
    to you, and what you find to be useful. You can use math or geometry or your own
    visual determinations, but it has to look good to you.\r\n\r\nThat is all."
  created: '2010-01-03 02:23:21'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "Apologies if it sounded as though I were putting words in your mouth, James.
    It wasn't meant as such -- but more of a general comment about experience.\r\n\r\nAs
    I've been thinking about this, I've become more disheartened at the approach of
    looking at stem widths. After all, if I use several weights of a family on one
    page, rarely am I using them all at the same size. I'm guessing that most folks
    don't apply a geometric mean to the type sizes they combine on a page -- so if
    a geometric mean is structuring stem width, that progression is lost once the
    type sizes change. \r\n\r\nI looked briefly at some lowercase n's I've drawn for
    this family, comparing stem width to the width of the internal counter. And, oddly,
    even though the stem widths don't hold to a geometric mean, the ratio of stem
    width to counter width is pretty darn close to the mean.\r\n\r\nUnexpected.\r\n\r\nSo
    I've dusted off some calculus and some RoboFab, hoping to calculate the surface
    area of positive and negative space. Thinking that if the ratio of black to white
    maintains an even progression, it shouldn't matter (as much) what size(s) the
    type is. The progression will be visible in the color of the weights. Of course
    this begs several questions; particularly 'Where does the counter space end?\""
  created: '2010-01-05 21:03:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That last paragraph makes the mouth water!\r\nGo for it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 21:13:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: It's what you might call <em>notantastic</em>.
  created: '2010-01-06 12:10:14'
date: '2010-01-01 02:52:58'
title: Weight interpolation and maths

---
