---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Inspired by a cool new character invented by Nina*, I've started thinking:
  maybe we can design/use symbols beyond the asterisk and dagger(s) to annotate text?
  Sure people use numbers, but that's pretty boring isn't it? Plus numbers are easily
  confusable when they're small. And having two floating digits is ugly (and the reason
  people use a dagger instead of two asterisks). So the Challenge is to make new symbols
  that:\r\n- Clearly convey that they're for annotation.\r\n- Look good small and
  floating.\r\n- Are not confusable with other annotation symbols.\r\n\r\n*\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/4238222291/\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65762\r\n\r\nI
  actually use custom little floating reference thingies* when I handwrite an article
  for splicing in additional text, but had never thought of putting things like that
  into fonts.\r\n\r\n* BTW, is \"annotations\" a good name for these?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Cool thread.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I actually use custom little floating reference
    thingies* when I handwrite an article for splicing in additional text\"</cite>\r\nMe
    too.\r\n\r\nOne interesting feature of these symbols vis-\xE0-vis numbers or alphabetics
    is obviously that they're not inherently sequential. So while numbers seem more
    practical in situations where you have lots of annotations/footnotes/etc., I would
    imagine that in more literary texts, and/or ones that use fewer notes (and no
    endnotes that are all lumped together!), a more graphical solution would certainly
    be a very nice option. \r\n\r\nOne question is if a bit of intuitively \xABreadable\xBB
    \xABsequentialness\xBB would still be desirable for annotation symbols, for example
    by means of repeating elements that could increase in number (lines, points\u2026),
    or elements that get larger etc. But the fewer annotations you need (and the more
    easily the bits they refer to can be found), the less that's important.\r\n\r\nSo,
    do we make this into a Type Battle of sorts? :)"
  created: '2010-01-03 17:56:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The asterisk and dagger had a kid, and named it Dagterisk.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dagterisk_6261.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 18:19:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Actually, I was thinking along similar lines, prompted by the same thread.\r\nBut
    I was too lazy and too slow a typer to start a new thread (and also not sure of
    the possible interest, but on this I was mistaken, it seems :-).\r\nAnyway, some
    random thoughts:\r\n* Typesetting text, I often need some sort of reference symbol
    which is distinct from the figures used for endnotes/footnotes.\r\n* Usually I
    use the asterisk, which is fine for one, not so good for two (**), simply unacceptable
    for three (\"What's that, a censored swearword?\").\r\n* The dagger, especially
    in sans serif typefaces, could be (conf)used to indicate a cross, meaning the
    (date of) death of a person (making especially unsuitable its use in conjunction
    with proper names).\r\n* I often end up using (oh, the horror!) the readily available
    degree sign (\xB0).\r\n* If designers would want to insert these newly devised
    glyphs in their fonts, which codepoints should they use?\r\n\r\nThat said, I think
    the sketch I made in the other thread has potential.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dagger_5860.png]\r\n\r\nI'm
    just not sure if I will call it Daggerism (loaning from asterism) or Daggerisk,
    following Altaira's suggestion ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-03 19:08:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> making especially unsuitable its use in conjunction with proper names\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention non-Christians. (BTW, I once saw a floating\r\ncrescent to indicate
    the year of death of a Muslim person.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 19:32:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Related to the dagger \u2194 cross thing: http://typophile.com/node/57592"
  created: '2010-01-03 19:40:58'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "The key I think is making each of the items look really different from each
    other.\r\nI was thinking about this at one point, but gave up.\r\nThe annotation
    mark which doesn't have a unicode and gets overlooked is the double bar\r\nThis
    is my favourite glyph! .. after my new favorite character the 'thin'.\r\n\r\n\r\n/m\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-03 20:59:12'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "'heart.sups' is my starter...\r\n\r\nIts a bit wide and dark maybe it needs
    to be broken or stabbed with the dagger?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Myopia-sups_5909.png]"
  created: '2010-01-03 22:11:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Numbers, among other benefits, come with built-in ordering, unlike other
    systems of symbols, which require establishment not only of shapes but also of
    conventional ordering. Sorry, Hrant, but I disagree that numbers are \u2018easily
    confusable when they\u2019re small\u2019: if they're easily confuseable, then
    they're poorly designed, and the same could be true of virtually any small, superscript
    sign.\r\n\r\nIn any case, footnotes are for children. Grown ups use end notes.
    :)"
  created: '2010-01-03 22:35:07'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "@ John Hudson: I agree that numbers have their fundamental function and are
    a superior solution for longer series of notes.\r\nBut there are instances in
    which some other kind of symbol would come handy instead or alongside them.\r\nJust
    look at the success of the asterisk. \r\n\r\n@ userone: That heart sure is cute!
    And I can think at several appropriate uses. The double bar, I think is too similar
    to a roman two."
  created: '2010-01-03 23:40:59'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Of course John \u2013 like I said up there, I think numbers are unbeatable
    in contexts where you need many \xABannotation symbols\xBB that are also undoubtedly
    sequential. But there are other situations too, like maybe less formal ones, more
    literary/poetic ones, quainter ones etc., where numbers would feel out of place,
    and where you don't need \xABordering\xBB as much (for example because you only
    need very few notes). And things like the heart and dagger hint at some nice possibilities
    of playing with semantics too!\r\n\r\nHey, it's a proposition for the [playful
    or serious] expansion of typographic possibilities \u2013 it's not like we're
    trying to outlaw numbers. :-)"
  created: '2010-01-03 23:51:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, as others are saying, I would think that if you have a certain number
    of notes per page/chapter in a work, non-numeric annotation symbols can give a
    nice flavor without causing functional hassles. I would say this number is between
    3 and maybe 7 if it's footnotes, and 3 and maybe 15 if it's endnotes.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    in general I personally prefer footnotes to endnotes - they're faster.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 00:01:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "For those who are not aware, there used to be a widely accepted convention
    for annotation symbols prescribed by <em>Chicago Manual of Style</em> (when there
    are few notes, or in addition to numerical note references). \r\n\r\nThe generally
    accepted sequence (in U.S. publishing, anyway) was/is: \r\n*&nbsp;(asterisk),
    \u2020&nbsp;(dagger), \u2021&nbsp;(double dagger), \xA7&nbsp;(section mark), &#8741;&nbsp;(parallels),
    #&nbsp;(number sign). When more symbols are required, the suggestion was to use
    doubles (e.g. ** \u2020\u2020 \u2021\u2021 etc.). These were often superscripted.\r\n\r\n[Interestingly,
    the latest edition drops the mention of parallels and number sign -- presumably
    because the parallels are not commonly available in digital fonts and because
    this sort of annotation has fallen out of favor.)\r\n\r\nIMO, if you need more
    than five symbols, then really you should be using numbers. But hey, knock yourselves
    out.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 13:12:37'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: I still think there is something to this and lay down the challenge to come
    up with 4 more to add to Kent's (Chicago MS's) 6 to make a total of 10 annotated
    markings!
  created: '2010-01-04 13:30:53'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> In any case, footnotes are for children. Grown ups use end notes. :)\r\n\r\nYes,
    but wouldn't it be nice if there were both? I get annoyed with scholarly works,
    where 90% of the notes are reference information, while the other 10% provide
    additional background information that I find useful. Wouldn't it be great if
    the background information could be done with footnotes at the base of the page,
    easily accessible, and the reference information placed in endnotes where the
    scholars who need it could access it there.\r\n\r\nI have seen this system used
    once (I can't remember where) and think it would be a great addition to scholarly
    style."
  created: '2010-01-04 14:11:16'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "How about crossed daggers? Since they look like daggers, readers will probably
    assume they're for reference.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crossed-daggers_4379.png]"
  created: '2010-01-04 14:30:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Great point Don! Need to keep this in mind.\r\n\r\nKent, so I take it this
    sequence isn't very much in use (and hence generally known) in the US now? FWIW,
    it is in any case culturally/regionally specific. For German, Forssmann / de Jong's
    \"Detailtypografie\" (which is a bit of a typesetting \"bible\") refers to a slightly
    different \"traditional sequence\" \u2013 asterisk; 2 asterisks*; dagger; double
    dagger; section sign; pilcrow; parallels \u2013 but adds this is only one possibility.
    For up to 3 notes they simply recommend asterisks.\r\n* Only used if more than
    6 symbols total needed.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure such fading conventions should have
    to be reasons to stop wondering about new/better characters. Like you say, this
    style of annotation isn't very popular nowadays (I wonder why?), maybe new symbols
    could be a cool way to breathe fresh life into the idea."
  created: '2010-01-04 14:43:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Also related... \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30176 "
  created: '2010-01-04 16:04:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don, good idea. And in a work with both footnotes and endnotes the former
    would pretty much require a set of non-numeric annotation symbols. But I find
    the Chicago MS recommendations problematic because beyond the double-dagger they're
    all ugly (and some ambiguous).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 16:24:44'
- author:
    name: Beauclair
  body: "The combined system with foot- and endnotes as mentioned by Don is actually
    used quite often in academic books. One prominent example which uses asterisk,
    dagger, double-dagger etc. for footnotes and numbers for endnotes is Ari Rafaeli\u2019s
    \xBBBook Typography\xAB. "
  created: '2010-01-04 16:33:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Don: <em>Yes, but wouldn\u2019t it be nice if there were both? I get annoyed
    with scholarly works, where 90% of the notes are reference information, while
    the other 10% provide additional background information that I find useful. Wouldn\u2019t
    it be great if the background information could be done with footnotes at the
    base of the page, easily accessible, and the reference information placed in endnotes
    where the scholars who need it could access it there.</em>\r\n\r\nWhen I've seen
    the notes split between footnotes and endnotes, it is typically the other way
    round. Citations tend not to take up too much space, so can be put at the bottom
    of the page; whereas informational notes tend to be longer (sometimes a taking
    up several pages in their own right). The editorial and design decision needs
    to be made based on the content and size of the notes.\r\n\r\nA lot of books my
    clients deal with have at least three kinds of annotation to deal with: critical
    apparatus, citations and commentary."
  created: '2010-01-04 17:18:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Between endnotes and footnotes, I prefer sidenotes! ;-)
  created: '2010-01-04 18:00:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"A lot of books my clients deal with have at least three kinds of
    annotation to deal with\"</cite>\r\nWell there you go: numbers, alphabetics, and
    symbols. :-)"
  created: '2010-01-04 18:09:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "By far the most common way to cite things in academic works now is in the
    text, with reference to a bibliography. So you get a reference like: (Freud 1900a,
    p. 56), and in the bibliography you have the details on the book referred to by
    Freud 1900a. That's assuming you have more than one publication by Freud that
    year which you want to refer to. \r\n\r\nThis is so much cleaner than past methods
    that I don't think they can compete. \r\n\r\nExplanatory notes are a different
    matter, and where to put these depends on the book or article as to what is best.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, side notes can be charming, and are under-used in books. Pull quotes and
    side bars are common in magazines.  "
  created: '2010-01-04 18:18:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Returning to the task at hand, why not borrow from chinese numerals/nautical
    flags?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/note_5762.png]"
  created: '2010-01-04 19:08:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Riccardo's concept echoes something I was thinking, in terms of making an
    ordered system that is somewhat intuitive:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Annotation_3413.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    higher values get more difficult to distinguish.\r\n\r\nI like what Riccardo's
    example suggests a little better. But I would skip that first \"minus\" and start
    with the second for the first order, maybe give it a \"plus\" form."
  created: '2010-01-04 20:41:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I wasn't aware of the use of the number sign/pound sign/octothorpe # for
    annotation, but the section sign, the paragraph sign, and parallels have already
    been mentioned here.\r\n\r\nI suppose that one could suggest the degree symbol,
    because it is already present, and, like the asterisk, raised!\r\n\r\nBut while
    some of the suggestions for new symbols made here are certainly interesting, I
    suspect that in practice there would be resistance to any change.\r\n\r\nStill,
    I'd like to make a very modest suggestion, much less original and visually interesting
    than the ones presented so far, but perhaps more practical. In contexts where
    a significant number of annotations are present, but superscript numerals would
    cause confusion (maybe one is footnoting an equation, where they might be confused
    with raising a number to a power)... perhaps one could simply use raised boxed
    or circled numerals.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's always raised Greek letters (lowercase)."
  created: '2010-01-04 22:29:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > (maybe one is footnoting an equation, where they might be confused
    with raising a number to a power)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is precisely the kind of
    situation where <em>Chicago</em> prescribes symbols: \r\n\r\n\"<strong>\xA713.50</strong>
    <em>Other reference marks.</em> For a table that includes mathematical or chemical
    equations, where superior letters or numerals might be mistaken for exponents,
    a series of arbitrary symbols may be used . . . as follows:\"\r\n\r\nAnd the recommended
    sequence of symbols is that which I cited previously."
  created: '2010-01-04 22:49:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>This is so much cleaner than past methods that I don\u2019t think
    they can compete. </em>\r\n\r\nAgreed. Most of the scholarly books I've seen recently
    insert citations in the text, use the bottom of the page for critical apparatus,
    and end notes for explanatory notes or commentary.\r\n\r\nCritical apparatus quite
    often involves a lot of different reference points on a single page, so numbers
    are the obvious choice. Which leaves the problem of how to reference explanatory
    end notes. My idea -- which I doubt is original -- is to use marginal reference
    numbers."
  created: '2010-01-04 23:43:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>This is so much cleaner than past methods that I don\u2019t think they
    can compete.</em>\r\n\r\nI might disagree with that. Is interrupting my paragraph
    with parenthetical citations really \"cleaner\"? Maybe this is a case of We Like
    Best What We Read Most, but I prefer foot- or endnotes (as are still used quite
    broadly in my field of art history). \r\n\r\nIn cases where citations and explanatory
    notes are divided into different systems of notation, how does one handle an explanatory
    note that also requires a citation, or a citation that also requires an explanatory
    note (both of which are likely to appear frequently in what I read and write)?\r\n\r\nAs
    for the new character challenge, here's my unserious submission:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3958.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-05 00:14:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, I likin' it.\r\n\r\n> there would be resistance to any change.\r\n\r\nThat's
    only normal. Nonetheless trying is normal too!\r\n\r\n> This is so much cleaner
    than past methods\r\n> that I don\u2019t think they can compete. \r\n\r\nNah,
    I'm with Craig. You should give the reader a choice of ignoring the side-trip;
    putting anything more than a non-linguistic symbol ruins that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 00:42:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>As for the new character challenge, here\u2019s my unserious submission:</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    missing a fifth symbol: a set of three wavy lines next to each other.\r\n\r\nAh,
    I see my memory was wrong. That would have been true if the triangle was instead
    a five-pointed star, and the X was a plus sign."
  created: '2010-01-05 01:01:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is interrupting my paragraph with parenthetical citations really \u201Ccleaner\u201D?
    \r\n\r\nYes, here's why. Citations this way are clearly citations, and being in
    parentheses can be skipped by the eye. When you have everything in foot or end
    notes, you don't know whether they are explanatory or simply citations, so you
    annoyingly have to go hunting to see whether it's something significant to your
    interests. \r\n\r\nWhere explanatory notes go should depend on the work, and the
    author's notion of their function, which he or she should be clear about. Then
    it may make sense to have them as end notes, side notes, or footnotes. \r\n\r\nI
    think the separation of citations and explanatory notes has been a real advance
    in layout of scholarly works.\r\n\r\nYou could also do citations as numbered end
    notes, and explanations as side or foot notes. The most important thing I think
    is the separation of the two, whatever device you use.    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-01-05 01:14:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "[This belongs under William Berkson's post.]\r\n\r\n<cite>\"and being in
    parentheses can be skipped by the eye\"</cite>\r\n\r\nNot really all that easy
    to skip'em though. You have to spot the opening parenthesis, then decide it's
    a citation and not a parenthesized statement that you're actually supposed to
    read inline with the text*, and then find the closing parenthesis. Seems to make
    for a lot of stop-and-go while reading.\r\n* To help this distinction I've previously
    used all small caps with small caps parentheses for the citations \u2013 makes
    the skippin' a little easier, but they still seem to stand in the way of smooth
    text flow.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"When you have foot or end notes, you don\u2019t know
    whether they are explanatory or simply citations, so you annoyingly have to go
    hunting to see whether it\u2019s something significant to your interests.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich
    is exactly why it'd be cool to have distinctive markers for the two. That's smart
    typography if you ask me (and not really that hard to \"learn\").\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of smart, I DIG Riccardo's Chinese-influenced ones!"
  created: '2010-01-05 01:15:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Will you two stop editing -and thereby sending down- your posts?! :-}\r\n\r\nKent,
    I propose taking the system you show above and limiting each star to one of three
    symbols: 3, 4 and 5* spokes. With two symbols per mark you have 3^2 = 9 choices,
    which seems pretty decent.\r\n\r\n* A 6 might be too hard to quickly tell apart
    from the 5.\r\n\r\nSo it would progress something like this:\r\n\r\n3\r\n3\r\n\r\n3\r\n4\r\n\r\n3\r\n5\r\n\r\n4\r\n3\r\n\r\n4\r\n4\r\n\r\n4\r\n5\r\n\r\n5\r\n3\r\n\r\n5\r\n4\r\n\r\n5\r\n5\r\n\r\nHowever
    I would propose that a given page not go sequentially through that list, but instead
    exclude parts as needed. For example a page could exclude one of the three symbols
    if it only happens to need 4 annotations; a page that only needs three could get
    by with one symbol per mark; etc.\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> I think the separation
    of citations and explanatory notes\r\n> has been a real advance in layout of scholarly
    works.\r\n\r\nSure, but interjecting parenthetical text is brutish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 01:24:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Not really all that easy to skip\u2019em though.\r\n\r\nYes it is, compared
    to having to go hunting at the back of the book to see whether or not you want
    to read the note. \r\n\r\nIdeally, you keep the form of the citation short, so
    you do see the opening and closing parens and the number, clearly signaling a
    citation. I agree that it can help to use small caps too. Practically every scholarly
    journal I have seen for the past 40 years uses this format for citations, and
    most books. What can you suggest that's better?\r\n\r\nThe book I am finishing
    writing is littered with references to Bible and Talmud, and I'm doing all citations
    in small cap abbreviations, followed by chapter and verse, or Talmudic page. So
    these are in parens, the span of seven or eight characters. And there are no foot
    notes, end notes or side notes, though there are introductory notes and appendices.
    \r\n\r\nSo I'm not stuck on the reference-in-parens style, but I am totally convinced
    that if you have a lot of citations, they shouldn't be mixed with explanatory
    notes. \r\n\r\nI think this is a matter of trying to make it easy and efficient
    for the reader to navigate, and both author and designer should be thinking about
    how to do that. "
  created: '2010-01-05 01:32:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> compared to having to go hunting at the back of the book\r\n> to see whether
    or not you want to read the note. \r\n\r\n1) I thought we were talking about citations.\r\n2)
    Exactly - footnotes!\r\n\r\n> What can you suggest that\u2019s better?\r\n\r\nI
    thought it's been clearly stated:\r\n- Numeric annotations for endnotes (long
    stuff).\r\n- Symbolic annotations for footnotes (one-liners/citations).\r\n\r\nAnd
    citations could be repeated/compiled at the end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 02:01:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I thought it was stated:\r\n- Numeric annotations for endnotes.\r\n- Symbolic
    annotations for footnotes.\r\n\r\nOh sorry, I didn't get it. \r\n\r\nThe advantage
    of the in line version is a. you have it and you're done, and it's easily skippable;
    b. it is space saving: if you have citations at the end, you can have a citation
    each line, so you eat up pages, or you have to reset with columns.\r\n\r\nBut
    there's a separate problem with foot notes, which is that they are usually very
    ugly and distracting, compared to side or end notes. I think they should be used
    very sparingly, if at all, and there shouldn't be more than two per page. Otherwise
    it gets *really* ugly. \r\n\r\nI like all the little dingbats, but I just don't
    see the need for more than a few foot notes, ever. \r\n\r\nI can see the use of
    the little dingbats if you have a list of members of an organization and want
    to distinguish various statuses, such as founder, member of the board, eastern
    division, etc, something like that might be useful. "
  created: '2010-01-05 02:26:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you have it and you\u2019re done\r\n\r\nIs it that big a deal to go down
    [an average of] half a page?\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s easily skippable\r\n\r\nI don't
    agree. People read what's in front of them.\r\n\r\n> foot notes ... are usually
    very ugly and distracting\r\n\r\nTo me parenthesized stuff is uglier.\r\n\r\nAnd
    actually I personally have no aesthetic problem with footnotes; I think the only
    people who mind are Modernist book typographers, who don't want the \"sanctity\"
    of their gray page disrupted... The only trouble I have with them is when they're
    so long they go across a page!\r\n\r\n> I just don\u2019t see the need for more
    than a few foot notes, ever.\r\n\r\nOK, but if you have more than three you're
    in trouble (and that's assuming you're a fan of daggers - which I myself am not
    - too crossy).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 02:39:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Aesthetically, I don't really like the inline citations, especially not when
    there are a lot of them on the page. Functionally, though, I do think they are
    the best approach, not least because they make it immediately apparent to the
    reader where a particular idea is coming from. In books with citations in footnotes
    or endnotes, I only occasionally bothered to look up citations; I am aware, with
    the inline citations, of a greater contextuality to my reading. That seems to
    me a functional editorial benefit, even if typographically I don't like the look
    of it much.
  created: '2010-01-05 11:05:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I can see the use of the little dingbats if you have a list of
    members of an organization and want to distinguish various statuses, such as founder,
    member of the board, eastern division, etc, something like that might be useful.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    reminds me of Maxim's brilliant potted history of Soviet typography in the shortlived
    ATypI journal <em>Type</em> (Vol.1 No.1 Spring 1997), in which the various apparatchiks
    are identified only by symbols, e.g. \u2018I still remember the rebuff that Kurbatov
    and I were met with by comrades \u221A and \u2021 (\u2021 is still alive)....\u2019"
  created: '2010-01-05 11:15:38'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>But there\u2019s a separate problem with foot notes, which is that
    they are usually very ugly and distracting, compared to side or end notes. I think
    they should be used very sparingly, if at all, and there shouldn\u2019t be more
    than two per page. Otherwise it gets *really* ugly.</cite>\r\n\r\nHave you ever
    saw something written by David Foster Wallace? ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-05 11:41:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "What about a bit of binary?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/footnotes_3917.png]"
  created: '2010-01-05 15:15:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree with you that inline citations are a problem aesthetically.
    But to me superscript numbers or symbols are also even more distracting and disruptive.
    Because of their position to me they are like little alarm bells that tell you
    that you need to stop and look something up. \r\n\r\nThe cleanest method is where
    everything is in end notes with no superscript characters in the text. In this
    method, you have a running head above the end notes indicating which pages the
    notes relate to. Then before the note itself you have the page number and the
    phrase which has the associated citation or commentary.\r\n\r\nWhich approach
    is best I think depends on the nature of the text. For example, if you have a
    scholarly history that discusses various other historian's views, then in line
    citations I think would be appropriate. If you have a narrative history that goes
    for aesthetically pleasing story telling, then shoving all citations to the end,
    and keeping the text completely clean would be best.   \r\n\r\nFootnotes are the
    worst, because yes, Hrant, it is very disruptive on page after page to look down
    the page, and then have to go back and hunt down where you were in the text. And
    I don't think my aesthetic objection is a matter of 'modernism'; I'm not a modernist.
    It's just ugly.   "
  created: '2010-01-05 15:17:37'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"The cleanest method is where everything is in end notes with no superscript
    characters in the text. In this method, you have a running head above the end
    notes indicating which pages the notes relate to. Then before the note itself
    you have the page number and the phrase which has the associated citation or commentary.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSuper
    clean yes; but while you're reading the text, you have to guess which section
    might have a note in the back! Or are you supposed to first read the text, then
    read all the notes, and then find and re-read the sections of the text that have
    notes? \r\nI've seen/read such systems a few times, and hated it every time. To
    me that's a pretty good example of prettiness/\xABclean-ness\xBB that comes at
    the expense of usability. I think this can only work (if at all; I've personally
    never seen it work) in a very narrow range of text genres; for example in scientific
    texts it might actually be problematic editorially, because in the case of citations/sources,
    it doesn't make it immediately clear that a given section comes from a different
    source. That little \xABalarm bell\xBB isn't just noise; it can also help mark
    things that aren't to be misread as self-contained truths. Kinda like that asterisk
    on shop signs that say \xAB50% OFF ON EVERYTHING*\xBB."
  created: '2010-01-05 16:38:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nina, as far as visual aesthetics, I think the only thing that is really
    problematic are foot notes. You can also mess up side notes visually, but if carefully
    done in an appropriate layout they can work.\r\n\r\nThe issue of in-line citations
    VS end notes with superior figures in the text VS end notes with no superior figures
    to me is mainly an issue of comfort and ease of use for the reader.  \r\n\r\nOn
    the question of comfort and ease of use in the system with no superior figures,
    my experience is not the same as yours. I find it obvious when a quotation or
    factual claim calls for a citation, and if I want it, I'll go look at the end
    of a book.  I'm grateful that there's nothing distracting me from the text and
    pushing me to look it up. As to explanatory notes, I'll just look at all the end
    notes before or after I read the text, and see if there is anything I find interesting.
    \r\n\r\nMy impression is that the cleanest method is becoming more and more popular,
    though it is more work in producing the book. \r\n\r\nBy the way, with electronic
    texts, you have a lot more options because of the possibility of hypertext links.
    That's an advantage of electronic texts, along with search-ability. \r\n  "
  created: '2010-01-05 17:08:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sidenotes are less disruptive than endnotes?!\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m grateful
    that there\u2019s nothing distracting me\r\n> from the text and pushing me to
    look it up.\r\n\r\n?\r\nParenthesized stuff right in the line doesn't do that?\r\n\r\n>
    the cleanest method is becoming more and more popular\r\n\r\nAnd we know what
    I for one think about popularity...\r\nFashion is one thing, function is another.\r\n\r\nHmmm,
    new term: fanction. When the two are in balance!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 17:15:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Parenthesized stuff right in the line doesn\u2019t do that?\r\n\r\nNo, it
    doesn't push you because the information is right there, and you don't have to
    go looking, wondering what it is. If you want actually to read the source cited,
    then you can go to the bibliography for info. "
  created: '2010-01-05 17:37:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Sidenotes are less disruptive than endnotes?!</em>\r\n\r\nI would think
    so. Consider: our vision is aligned to horizontal movement, so glancing out to
    the margin and back in to the text on a horizontal plane, or close to a horizontal
    plane, is a faster process than looking down to the bottom of the page and back
    up again. Good marginal notes align to the text to which they refer, and hence
    can often be implemented without any inline indicators. So they may be both less
    disruptive to reading and less disruptive to the appearance of the text."
  created: '2010-01-05 19:45:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it doesn\u2019t push you because the information is right there\r\n\r\nI
    have to concede that point.\r\nBut I worry that inline stuff is just too hard
    to ignore if you want to.\r\n\r\n> glancing out to the margin and back .... is
    a faster process\r\n\r\nGood point, I just worry that the temptation to look at
    the margin note* before its time is too great. As for the aesthetic argument,
    I think can go either way.\r\n\r\n* Exactly because our eyes prefer the horizontal;
    plus it stands out in the empty margin.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nMaybe my own reading
    habits are simply too inquisitive.\r\n\r\nBTW, this is exactly the sort of thing
    that could be tested quite well empirically (unlike reading performance, which
    is a huge challenge).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It\u2019s missing a fifth symbol: a set of three wavy lines next to each
    other.\r\n\r\nAh, I see my memory was wrong. That would have been true if the
    triangle was instead a five-pointed star, and the X was a plus sign.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think the next symbols would be R1, R2, L1, and L2 ;-) (Those are the symbols
    on the buttons of a PlayStation controller.)"
  created: '2010-01-05 20:39:41'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Regardless of feet, sides and/or ends, here's the Flower Power/Web 2.0 notational
    system! ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/note_5822.png]"
  created: '2014-07-09 14:15:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, the notes in early editions of <em>The Rise and Fall of the
    Roman Empire</em>, the book in which the invention of the footnote is said to
    have taken place, actually placed the notes in the margins.\r\n\r\nThe reason
    this was abandoned for footnotes is obvious - it wasn't because footnotes were
    easier on the reader, but because they took less space."
  created: '2014-08-05 03:40:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Sidenotes are better for the reader, but they need to be concise, and sparse
    (which, by the way, would be good advice for any kind of note ;-) thus creating
    ample whitespace where they're not present.\r\nUnfortunately, in print whitespace
    in the form of wide margins come (literally) with a cost.\r\nBut, had we had more
    of them, maybe we wouldn't had to wait 358 years for a proof of Fermat's last
    theorem... ;-)"
  created: '2014-08-05 10:57:36'
date: '2010-01-03 17:20:32'
title: New Character(s) Challenge - Annotations

---
