---
author:
  name: bendy
  picture: 112931
body: "So I got to thinking that the at sign really shouldn't be aligned with the
  uppercase, since its primary use is in e-mail addresses, which are always correctly
  written in lowercase.\r\n\r\nMS Character Design Standards however says:\r\n<cite>
  Height alignment : Visually centers on the uppercase height, dependent on the typeface
  design.\r\n\r\n<cite>Spacing : Visually center between uppercase H and O. </cite>\r\n\r\nAs
  an aside, this doesn't help me know what size to make the glyph and so I'm not fitting
  its upper and lower extrema to any particular heights. Instead its top is around
  three-quarters of the distance between the x line and the cap line, and the bottom
  around the same between the baseline and the descender line. This leaves the /a/
  part floating in space around the centre of the x-height, which looks fine to me.
  Any thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Melia-At-Sign_6465.gif]\r\n\r\nPS
  not sure what that flat curve was doing in there, it's been eliminated now ;)"
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'Unless you are going to use it as originally intended: 25 Bails of Hay @
    $.30 per Bail, you should probably align it so it works with the lowercase. Then
    you can make another one, name it at.case and have it work with the uppercase'
  created: '2010-01-04 20:45:42'
- author:
    name: theplatypus
    picture: 115609
  body: "I had a similar issue a number of years back.  Your optical alignment to
    the lowercase works for me!\r\nbest regards,\r\ndaniel"
  created: '2010-01-04 21:11:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yours looks good to me judging from this \u2013 mine is similarly placed
    FWIW.\r\n\r\nOld usage definitely wanted it higher IIRC, which is why it looks
    funny when you print e-mail addresses in letterpress, using old fonts."
  created: '2010-01-04 21:43:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Rather than create a separate at.case glyph, wouldn't it be more efficient
    to simply gpos this one up a bit?
  created: '2010-01-04 23:41:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>which is why it looks funny when you print e-mail addresses in letterpress,
    using old fonts</em>\r\n\r\nbesides the fact that it would often be a generic
    sort rather than part of a font, no?"
  created: '2010-01-05 00:15:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Bendy -- One disadvantage of gpos-ing the existing <em>at</em> glyph is that
    you can't provide a separate set of kern pair values, which you may or may not
    want.
  created: '2010-01-05 12:43:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Not only is the kerning likely to change for the .case version of the at
    glyph, but the glyph itself may need a bit of weight as well. Or you can use an
    uppercase A form inside the ring for the .case at.\r\n\r\nBendy - from my point
    of view, the weight of the a portion of the at glyph you show seems a tad light
    and the ring appears a tad heavy. FWIW"
  created: '2010-01-05 14:22:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Craig \u2013 good point.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Or you can use an uppercase A form
    inside the ring for the .case at.\"</cite>\r\nHey cool. I've never seen this.
    Do you happen to have an example?"
  created: '2010-01-05 14:29:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "James, yes, I think you're right about the relative weights. I was thinking
    the whole glyph should be a slightly bit larger to make the a part darker, but
    I think instead I'll make the ring lighter. Thanks.\r\n\r\nTo me, a capital A
    inside would look pretty alien. I think I've seen it somewhere but can't remember
    where.\r\n\r\nHere are some interesting ideas I've just quickly found:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ats_6429.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-05 15:00:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Forget UC. And the alignment you have up there looks solid.\r\n\r\nAs for
    what's inside the circle, for a text face I'm a very\r\nfirm believer that it
    should NOT look like an \"a\" (or \"A\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 16:26:27'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"should NOT look like an \u201Ca\u201D (or \u201CA\u201D)\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat,
    because of confusability?\r\n(Seems potentially tricky in Italics, or other fonts
    with monocular \"a\"s.)"
  created: '2010-01-05 16:43:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Agreed, that's why they're usually italic in a roman face, is it?\r\n\r\n>Seems
    potentially tricky in Italics, or other fonts with monocular \u201Ca\u201Ds\r\nThat's
    where the creativity has to come in. You wouldn't want type design to be simple!"
  created: '2010-01-05 16:51:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, because you don't want people to see an \"a\", you want them\r\nto
    see an \"@\" (like how you don't want an ampersand to look like\r\ntwo joined
    letters). In an Italic, I'd try to make it more symbolic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 17:01:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, your point about the ampersand makes sense, and you could add other
    examples: a question mark should not look like the letter \"q\", and an eszett
    should not look like a long s and an s or a z merely joined together. I personally
    don't like the W made of two Vs simply overlaid either. In other words, we shouldn't
    be taking the etymological origins of symbols and letters literally in designing
    them.\r\n\r\nBut to me \"@\" has always been nothing more than an \"a\" with a
    circular swash, and the statement that you want people to see an \"@\" instead
    of an \"a\" makes as much sense to me as wanting people to see a \"\xA9\" instead
    of a \"c\" in a circle.\r\n\r\nIs it just me? Are there people who think of \"@\"
    as an independent symbol with nothing to do with \"a\"? Come to think of it, I
    see how people who have only ever typed \"@\" and never wrote it by hand may not
    ever make the connection between \"a\" and \"@\"."
  created: '2010-01-05 20:43:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>because you don\u2019t want people to see an \u201Ca\u201D, you want
    them\r\nto see an \u201C@\u201D (like how you don\u2019t want an ampersand to
    look like\r\ntwo joined letters)</em>\r\n\r\nIn the case of the ampersand (for
    English readers like me), the visual 'et' and the semantic 'and' are unrelated,
    but for the at-sign the meaning (or better, the phonetic component - whether read
    aloud or heard \"in the mind's ear\") does start with \"a\" so I don't see a problem
    with a-like @'s.\r\n\r\nWhich makes me wonder if French typefaces are more likely
    to have \"et\" ampersands."
  created: '2010-01-05 20:53:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brian, for any symbol we must consider what it does, not where it comes from.
    The \"a\" component of \"@\" should be actively discarded because all promoting
    that can do is confuse people; seeing an \"a\" in there is much more likely to
    do harm than good. Knowing that the \"@\" comes from writing \"at\" quickly is
    just cute trivia, not good design.\r\n\r\nThis reasoning is also what I apply
    in demoting chirography in type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 21:19:46'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, this must be a difference of how we think of the \"@\" sign, because
    I think an \"@\" where the central component is stylized beyond recognition as
    an \"a\" will be more confusing to me.\r\n\r\nMaybe this comes down to the fact
    that I'm more used to glyphs that may be confused with an overly-stylized \"@\".
    Koreans (and Japanese, I think) often make use of circled letters, and Thai numerals
    or Japanese hiragana contain many symbols containing a circular-swash-like element.
    So to me, what distinguishes \"@\" from an array of other similar symbols&mdash;indeed,
    the most characteristic trait&mdash;is the central \"a\" component.\r\n\r\nI remember
    seeing other Koreans writing \"@\" as simply a circled \"a\". This is nothing
    more than anecdotal evidence, of course, but it shows that to some people the
    connection between \"@\" and \"a\" is really strong.\r\n\r\nThe situation may
    indeed be different for those who are not likely to use any other symbol that
    can be confused for the \"@\"."
  created: '2010-01-05 21:36:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> to some people the connection between \u201C@\u201D and \u201Ca\u201D is
    really strong.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nIt's our duty to break it.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 21:54:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would think that the at-sign @, in order to look like @, needs to look
    like a single story a, with a tail that goes around it. Yes, it needs to be very
    distinct from the lower-case letter a, and from a circled A, whether upper- or
    lower- case, but it <strong>also</strong> needs to not be an unfamiliar symbol
    which readers will not recognize at sight.\r\n\r\nOf course, on the other hand,
    & would only look like an et ligature in a typeface which is patterned after a
    historical typeface or group of typefaces in which that was the case."
  created: '2010-01-05 22:21:28'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, while I agree with the principle behind your suggestion, is there
    anything inherently unnatural about thinking of \"@\" as a swashy \"a\" symbol?
    Any more than thinking of \"\xA9\" as \"c\" in a circle, for example? It's a convenient
    and intuitive way to think about the symbol, even for many non-English-speakers
    who have no idea that it is called the \"at sign\" in English. Take away the connection
    and we are left with a random scribbly hieroglyph that we'll never remember how
    to write. ;)\r\n\r\nI'm also curious how one would move the design of the \"@\"
    away from the \"a\" component and still make it recognizable as an \"@\" to those
    who rely on the \"a\" component to distinguish it from similar symbols.\r\n\r\nJust
    to make clear, none of the atypical \"@\" treatments that Bendy found (from Roadway,
    Jana Thork, Perla, and Letunical) look like \"@\" to me. Just because in my mind
    \"@\" is inextricably connected to \"a\" doesn't mean that just any \"a\"/\"A\"
    with a circular swash makes an \"@\". But Bendy's own \"@\" design to me is a
    perfect example of what an \"@\" should be shaped like. I'm curious how one would
    improve upon it."
  created: '2010-01-05 22:32:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> in order to look like @, needs to look like a\r\n> single story a, with
    a tail that goes around it.\r\n\r\nWhat about in fonts with a monocular \"a\"
    (like most Italics)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 22:34:53'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant: <cite>What about in fonts with a monocular \u201Ca\u201D (like most
    Italics)?</cite>\r\n\r\nTo me, that is nothing to worry about, at least no more
    than one would worry about the \"d\" looking too much like the \"a\" when you
    take away the ascender. The circular swash means the \"@\" will never, ever be
    confused with an \"a\". The focus should be on differentiating it from other circular-swashy
    characters, which admittedly isn't much of a problem for most westerners."
  created: '2010-01-05 22:53:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Brian, not \"unnatural\", but not-ideally-functional.\r\n\r\n> still make
    it recognizable as an \u201C@\u201D to those who rely on\r\n> the \u201Ca\u201D
    component to distinguish it from similar symbols.\r\n\r\nLike what?\r\n\r\nAnd
    always, think about the context: the \"@\" sign's main role now is email addresses.
    when you see it in a tightly-packed string of alphanumerics, what are the chances
    that it's going to be confused for the copyright symbol, versus an \"a\"?\r\n\r\nFor
    example if you see \"nin@gmail.com\" and the \"@\" has a honking \"a\" in it,
    you're much more likely to incorrectly see it as \"nina@gmail.com\".\r\n\r\n>
    we\u2019ll never remember how to write.\r\n\r\n1) How often do we write [for other
    people] these days?\r\n2) I myself have a hell of a time writing a \"proper\"
    \"at\" sign. It takes too long, I rush it, it comes out horrible. I'm better off
    writing something simpler, like a simple spiral.\r\n\r\n> The circular swash means
    the \u201C@\u201D will\r\n> never, ever be confused with an \u201Ca\u201D. \r\n\r\nNever
    say never!\r\nWhen you're in a hurry you have accidents. (But you still hurry.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 23:02:24'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Crossposted...\r\n\r\nHrant: <cite>For example if you see \u201Cnin@gmail.com\u201D
    and the \u201C@\u201D has a honking \u201Ca\u201D in it, you\u2019re much more
    likely to incorrectly remember it as \u201Cnina@gmail.com\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for this example. This makes much more sense.\r\n\r\nI think we will agree that
    in the context of an email address, anything looking remotely like the \"@\" will
    immediately be recognized as such. But I still contend the expected shape for
    the \"@\" contains the \"a\" element, so that an isolated \"@\" without the \"a\"
    component may be tricky for some to recognize.\r\n\r\nSome similar symbols, off
    the top of my head, include the Thai numeral one, one form of the Greek kai ligature,
    and possibly some Hiragana syllables. But really, you have to understand how fond
    Koreans are of using circled letters (both Hangul and Latin) and numerals to see
    why I am even talking about this. In everyday handwriting, these may well take
    on forms similar to the \"@\", with only the central components distinguishing
    one from the other."
  created: '2010-01-05 23:10:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you have to understand how fond Koreans are of using circled letters\r\n\r\nInteresting
    - I never realized.\r\nAny handy examples?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-05 23:16:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "There are some examples in this picture, although it is hard to see: [[http://pds13.egloos.com/pds/200901/23/53/e0041253_4979349bb31a4.gif]]\r\n\r\nIt's
    trickier than I thought to do an image search of samples of Korean handwriting."
  created: '2010-01-05 23:36:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, I was writing some e-mail addresses earlier; seems I'm with you!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/atsignwritten_6426.gif]\r\nPertinent
    how I've aligned the first one to the Cap height and the second to the lc!"
  created: '2010-01-06 12:09:54'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Well now, that just looks like a C to me. Best seek middle ground!
  created: '2010-01-06 12:25:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Using the bass clef as the starting point for the design of a new at-sign...
    and drawing the conclusion that @ is not used much for its original purpose simply
    because it is now used more for a new purpose... both lack appeal to me, at least.\r\n\r\n@
    was used for E-mail addresses because its original use gave it a semantic link
    to \"at\", which has a range of meaning - at a price, or at a location. If a new
    at-sign were developed just for E-mail, and displaced the old one among the easily
    available characters on a computer (otherwise, E-mail would become more difficult
    to use on older computers!) then when one used a computer for word processing
    as a typewriter, suddenly ASCII would no longer contain the old at-sign for commercial
    correspondence.\r\n\r\nIt's bad enough that the Euro isn't $EU, but has its own
    brand new symbol that typewriters and fonts don't already have. While new symbols
    are a fun exercise in creativity, from a practical standpoint they're to be avoided
    unless desperately necessary."
  created: '2010-01-06 19:37:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm not aiming to redesign the @: I'm observing that its most common use
    these days is in e-mail addresses and in that context uppercase alignment looks
    eye-poking.\r\n\r\nThe reversed bass clef happens to be how the sign comes out
    simplified when I write quickly. Except in the most experimental of fonts, I wouldn't
    use it as a basis for type. Or if I tried to make a font from my handwriting :)"
  created: '2010-01-06 19:46:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> new symbols are a fun exercise in creativity, from a practical\r\n> standpoint
    they\u2019re to be avoided unless desperately necessary.\r\n\r\nWell, often distancing
    yourself from a behemothic power is quite practical! If I were European (and to
    some extent I am) I'd like to avoid a dollar sign in my currency at all costs
    (pardon the pun). And for example the Mexican currency symbol situation is totally
    lame.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-06 20:59:45'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"It\u2019s bad enough that the Euro isn\u2019t $EU, but has its own
    brand new symbol\"</cite>\r\n\r\n?\r\nAnd what is the \"$\", god-given? Or any
    other character for that matter? \r\nSymbols are \xABmade\xBB as they are needed,
    and the fact alone that the \"\u20AC\" is newer than the \"$\" shouldn't give
    it less of a right to exist. And while repurposing existing characters may be
    convenient,* much like Hrant said it brings with it a whole slew of other problems,
    like confusability, or the loss of specificity (?) for example with regard to
    a cultural/regional context.\r\n\r\n(* But the need really isn't as pressing now
    as it used to be. Typewriters? Should their limitations really still be a deciding
    force for our character repertoire?)"
  created: '2010-01-06 21:11:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Quadibloc: I think Hrant was talking about changing the design of the existing
    @, not replacing it with a new symbol or developing a new @ just for e-mail.\r\n\r\nWhich
    does bring us to the fact that what we think of as the @ has historically had
    a number of different uses, with slightly different designs according to use.
    Here is a previous thread on the subject, with a nice illustration towards the
    end:\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/57817]]"
  created: '2010-01-06 21:28:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>\"And what is the '$', god-given? Or any other character for that matter?\r\nSymbols
    are \xABmade\xBB as they are needed, and the fact alone that the '\u20AC' is newer
    than the '$' shouldn\u2019t give it less of a right to exist.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    true that nowadays adding a character is trivial. Just go to Windows Update and
    downlaod a patch to your keyboard arrangement... and new fonts... and, presto!
    the new character prints on your screen and on your laser printer when you type
    ctrl-alt-5 or some such thing.\r\n\r\nBack in the dark old days when people would
    have to run out and buy new typewriters - and when my habits of thought were formed,
    of course, bringing a new glyph into common use would create massive inconvenience
    and be an extremely slow process."
  created: '2010-01-07 15:36:06'
- author:
    name: splittingfield
  body: "Not exactly related, but lately I have found myself enamored with the alternate
    ampersand in luc(as) de groot\u2019s theSans.  It just feels right (to me at least)
    \ when using it in an email address in a more modern setting. \r\n\r\n\r\n  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/theSansAT_4620.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/theSansEmail_3812.png]"
  created: '2010-01-07 18:20:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, that's very cool.\r\nDoes it still work at sizes like you'd use for
    a business card though?"
  created: '2010-01-07 18:59:44'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "From when I started makin typefaces, I've been wondering the @ glyph: it
    has been too similar from typeface to typeface, and I quess that the reason 15
    years ago was that it was just another obligatory glyph to draw, like integral
    or logicalnot. I think the first new approach was in FF DIN. I took my queue from
    that, and (unless customer ensists) still make my @ like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/at_6231.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    is basicaly 'd' with a loop around it. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying this is right, but
    I think it's better than the glyph from early '90s, when @ was set on baseline
    and the height was everything under ascender line, and the basic form was just
    copied from earlier versions."
  created: '2010-01-07 19:24:18'
- author:
    name: splittingfield
  body: "Here is a quick card I threw together with xelatex to show the email address
    and ampersand at card size.  I then took the pdf and converted it to a png for
    easy posting.  Any aliasing is due to the conversion process.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/card_4008.png]"
  created: '2010-01-07 19:56:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm\u2026 borderline decipherable now, no? :-\\\r\n\r\nBTW, as far as I know:\r\n\"@\"
    is just an \"at\" sign; ampersand is \"&\""
  created: '2010-01-07 20:19:41'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Yes; ampersand is '&', but ampersand does not cause this sort of stir. Even
    though ampersand has a huge amount of variant forms.\r\n\r\nPerhaps 'at' glyph
    creates so much interest because the basic form has been so rigid for such a long
    time. That was my motive to make a new one; to incorporate the glyph more to the
    overall design of a font, instead of interpreting a generic form to fit the design."
  created: '2010-01-07 20:29:49'
- author:
    name: splittingfield
  body: "Yes, silly typo there.  I meant \"at\" and typed \"ampersand\".  I guess
    life could be worse than having ampersands on the mind :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nI think
    it could be readable at card sizes.  However, I tend to use it at letterhead size\r\nfor
    my own work at least.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-07 20:32:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I think the novelty of it could make it useful at large sizes.
  created: '2010-01-07 20:44:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm sorry, but to me that alternate @ in TheSans doesn't work at all. I'm
    all for experimentation, but this will be hard to decipher at normal text sizes.
    Did Luc(as) really design it to be confined to the x-height?\r\n\r\nBesides, even
    if people are able to see the \"AT\", those who don't know that the @ in e-mail
    addresses is read \"at\" in English will be utterly lost; they would be left to
    try to decode this purely based on context, as they would for something like \"name(\uACE8\uBC45\uC774)typophile.com\"
    in Korean."
  created: '2010-01-07 21:08:40'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I must agree with Brian; turning a single glyph into two glyphs with something
    on top and below them can not be progress.
  created: '2010-01-07 23:04:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Brian \u2013 very good point that transforming a character into what is essentially
    a catch word glyph is quite limiting in terms of cultural/language context.\r\nStill,
    in principle I think it's interesting and refreshing to see a designer going about
    making this character differently \u2013 who said they need to always share the
    same structure (that's certainly not \"progress\" either). Plus, it's an alternate.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I missed this the first time round:\r\n<cite>\"nin@gmail.com\"</cite>\r\nReminds
    me of how people actually tried to capitalize on the formal closeness of \"@\"
    and \"a\" for a while, back when email was still a new and exciting thing. I even
    know somebody who registered <em>the part of her name that follows the first \"a\"</em>
    as a domain name, so she could have an email address that was simply her name
    with that \"a\" replaced by an \"@\". :-\\\r\nIt's certainly very fortunate that
    that isn't really done anymore. The close association of \"@\" with \"a\" seems
    to have waned largely by itself, maybe simply due to the fact that the \"@\" symbol
    has grown to be seriously relevant, and is now largely \"understood\" as a character
    in its own right. All the less reason to make it look too much like an \"a\" if
    you think about it that way (but maybe also less reason to <em>completely</em>
    redefine its design\u2026)."
  created: '2010-01-07 23:51:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>The close association of \u201C@\u201D with \u201Ca\u201D seems to
    have waned largely by itself</cite>\r\n\r\nI haven't checked lately, but, for
    some time, among some circles in Italy, there was/is the use of @ as a \"gender
    agnostic\" replacement for the usual female a and male o ending vowel. "
  created: '2010-01-08 00:00:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, so it's now associated both with \"a\" <em>and</em> \"o\"?!  :-\\\r\nMaybe
    we should have another type battle\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-08 00:02:40'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: 'I second the idea: This is a great subject for the Type Battle.'
  created: '2010-01-11 22:07:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>The close association of \"@\" with \"a\" seems to have waned largely
    by itself, maybe simply due to the fact that the \"@\" symbol has grown to be
    seriously relevant, and is now largely \"understood\" as a character in its own
    right. All the less reason to make it look too much like an \"a\" if you think
    about it that way (but maybe also less reason to completely redefine its design\u2026).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    disagree."
  created: '2010-01-11 22:18:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Just yesterday, I saw a Korean write down her e-mail address making the @
    an \"a\" in a circle. Now that I think of it, I've noted in the past looking at
    sign-up sheets and such that this is how the vast majority of Koreans write the
    @ in e-mail addresses; I was the type geek who insisted on a proper connected
    @ form. I can't even recall seeing another Korean who writes the @ like I do,
    although surely I can't be the only one.\r\n\r\nThe lesson, I think, is that we
    should keep in mind that how one sees a character is often more culture-dependent
    than one might think. Something to keep in mind when we discuss the designs of
    glyphs like the @ or numerals, asterisk, daggers, and such."
  created: '2010-01-12 00:06:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Battle? More like a brief skirmish:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ao_5751.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 19:40:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was delighted to learn that @ used to have a companion symbol, a script
    r with a tail that also went around it in a partial circle - it was used as a
    currency symbol for the Reis... but although Brazil has brought back the Reis
    in place of the Cruziero, they no longer use that symbol.\r\n\r\nOne way to avoid
    the inconvenient need for completely new symbols... is to avoid discarding old
    ones.\r\n\r\nThus, I once designed the definition of a computer language in which
    a complex number could be specified as X + !Y, and the upside-down ! and ? from
    Spanish were used as unary operators to multiply numbers by j and k to form quaternions..."
  created: '2010-01-12 20:19:12'
date: '2010-01-04 20:18:14'
node_type: forum
title: Design of @

---
