---
author:
  name: Christopher Adams
  picture: 117894
body: "The Good, the Bad, the... Malformed.\r\n\r\nWhich cut of Palatino has the best
  ogoneks?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TheOgoneksOfPalatino_4935.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: If you have a close look to <a href="http://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/ogonek.html">this
    article by Adam Twardoch</a> you should be able to judge by yourself.
  created: '2010-01-12 12:46:51'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "Thank you for your comment. Indeed I have read Adam Twardoch's how-to, and
    I admire his efforts to educate the type community on this issue.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I have to point out that I have already formed my own judgment, but I hoped that
    these examples could serve as an object lesson for this board. That is why I posted
    this in \xBBCritique\xAB.\r\n\r\nI might begin with the observation that at least
    one of these series of ogoneks was not drawn by Hermann Zapf."
  created: '2010-01-12 14:20:04'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "I see. I didn\u2019t notice the critique section. The Palatino Nova ogoneks
    to me seem poorely designed, much too fragile, and the position on A and I is
    not good.\r\n\r\nThe ogonek\u2019s serifs from the TeX Pagella version try to
    reflect the overall design of Palatino and its serifs, yet i don\u2019t know if
    i would design an ogonek with a serif. After all, none of these ogoneks truely
    reflect Palatino\u2019s (Zapf\u2019s) design, not knowing if any of these here
    were drawn by Zapf himself."
  created: '2010-01-12 15:57:26'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "J Weltin wrote: <cite>The ogonek\u2019s serifs from the TeX Pagella version
    try to reflect the overall design of Palatino and its serifs, yet <strong>i don\u2019t
    know if i would design an ogonek with a serif.</strong></cite>\r\n\r\nThis is
    a question I am very interested in. It is also the answer to my first observation.
    The ogoneks of Pagella were not drawn by Zapf."
  created: '2010-01-12 16:47:44'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: "The serifs on the Pagella ogoneks also struck me as odd.  However, they were
    designed by native speakers of Polish ([[http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/index_html|GUST
    e-foundry]]); maybe they know something I don't...\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to
    hear the opinions of some Polish or Lithuanian designers."
  created: '2010-01-12 22:12:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like seeing the ogonek affecting the base letter more.\r\nIt bugs me when
    the serifs just sit there ignoring it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 22:15:00'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: Aric is correct about the Polish roots of the Pagella glyphs. Of the samples
    I posted, URW Palladio L is the most egregious, since the ogoneks extend past
    the edge of the glyph (and as the direct ancestor of TeX Gyre Pagella, I understand
    why GUST redrew them).
  created: '2010-01-13 03:29:44'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "hrant wrote: <cite>I like seeing the ogonek affecting the base letter more.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aogonekPagella_3576.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>TeX
    Pagella</strong>\r\n\r\nIt's clear which terminal the ogonek was made to resemble.
    Given the concept is acceptable, could the execution be even better?"
  created: '2010-01-13 16:14:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think for Palatino that's nearly ideal. The only thing I'd tweak is the
    inside (bottom-right) of the join: I might make it completely smooth instead of
    suggesting that the ogonek was added later; on the other hand Palatino is full
    of strong shifts so maybe such smoothness would be undesirable.\r\n\r\nA good
    illustration of what I meant in terms of serif action can be seen in an upcoming
    typeface I'm [heavily] advising on:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogoneks_4056.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 16:39:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>an upcoming typeface I'm [heavily] advising on</cite>\r\n\r\nSo we
    can blame you for the delay? ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-13 17:10:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, I'm sort of a poster-boy for that.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 17:22:52'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: The topic has the right image now that uploading is restored.
  created: '2010-01-14 11:03:23'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "Hrant, I agree that the join on the aogonek is the most problematic, and
    your solution would be worth trying. The samples you posted strike me as well
    done.\r\n\r\nPersonally I think the serif on the ogonek \xE0 la Pagella works:
    my only reservation is that the narrow part of the \"hook\" needs a better transition
    between the serif and the thick of the ogonek.\r\n\r\nI wonder who dropped the
    ball on Palatino Nova."
  created: '2010-01-14 11:04:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I notice that only Linotype Palatino has what I thought was the conventional
    placement of the ogonek - joined at the middle of the stem rather than on the
    edge of the serif.
  created: '2010-01-14 13:08:30'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "Linotype Palatino also has the merit that its ogoneks make an effort to reach
    the descent line.\r\n\r\nIdeally, each letter should be drawn individually with
    the ogonek flowing gracefully from the base character. The right effect can rarely
    be achieved with a composite glyph.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 13:30:00'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: Hrant, one remark I might make with regard to the sample you posted of the
    wedge serif, is that the foot of the serif should maintain a right angle before
    it veers off to form the ogonek.
  created: '2010-01-14 13:42:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the foot of the serif should maintain a right angle\r\n\r\nYou mean tilt
    that vertical slightly counter-clockwise? A valid suggestion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 14:58:30'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "The Palatino Linotype one looks like it is an afterthought, like a diacritic
    pasted on top of the letterforms, although it\u2019s not too bad on the lowercase
    e. I can understand why it sticks out to the left of the lowercase a, but it would
    have been better to properly incorporate it with the inside of the serif. On the
    uppercase i it\u2019s oddly off center, but seems okay on the lowercase i.\r\n\r\nThe
    URW Palladio ogonek looks like it was taken from Verdana or some other sans serif
    font. It\u2019s totally out of place. It looks especially weird on both upper
    and lowercase i, it should have been visually centered instead.\r\n\r\nThe ogonek
    of URW Palladio L is particularly vile with its foreign shape and poking out to
    the left. It\u2019s also far too small, and far too spindly. Easily missed in
    reading.\r\n\r\nHas anyone else noticed that the ogonek in TeX Pagella seems to
    be a tweaked chunk of the terminal of the lowercase a? It\u2019s nicely long and
    dark, easily seen. It needs a little bit more work, but I like it.\r\n\r\nThe
    Palatino Nova ogonek looks spindly and weak, out of proportion with the heaviness
    of the stems. It also looks pasted on, or rather tacked on the edge. The juncture
    between it and the letterforms is too thin, which is what seems to be causing
    this. Also, the angle of departure is very narrow, and doesn\u2019t harmonize
    with the pen angle elsewhere.\r\n\r\nAlthough I don\u2019t read Polish, I do work
    with Tlingit and the Athabaskan languages where the ogonek (U+0328) is frequently
    used in various orthographies to represent nasalized vowels. Unlike in Polish,
    in the Athabaskan languages it can occur on all five orthographic vowels: \u0105
    (U+0105), \u012F (U+012F), \u0173 (U+0173), \u0119 (U+0119), \u01EB (U+01EB).
    Also unlike Polish, it often occurs with acute and grave accents, for example
    \u0119\u0301 (U+0119 U+0301). Since long vowels are usually represented with pairs
    of letters, it\u2019s common to see sequences like \u0119\u0301\u0119\u0301 and
    \u01EB\u0301\u01EB\u0301. A particularly nasty problem is with \u012F\u0301 (U+012F
    U+0301) or \u012F\u0300 (U+012F U+0300), where the tittle is never properly removed.
    To get this to work one usually must abuse the dotless \u0131 (U+0131) like so:
    \u0131\u0328\u0301 (U+0131 U+0328 U+0301). Of course none of this will display
    correctly here given the typically lousy state of support for such characters."
  created: '2010-01-15 01:49:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Not being very familiar with the form of the ogonek, I did some Google searching.
    I found that it is used for A and E in Polish, but for A, E, I and U in Lithuanian.
    Somewhere I found a mention that Lithuanian used a slightly different standard
    for its appearance, but I couldn't find out what it was.\r\n\r\nAlso, when this
    is used with American Indian languages, <em>then</em> the usual approach is to
    center it below the letter, so for those languages it might be considered a separate
    accent (although, at least in Polish, the ogonek is not treated as an accent;
    instead, the letter with the ogonek is a new member of the alphabet).\r\n\r\nI
    wanted to see what the ogonek looked like in older typefaces, so I tried searching
    for a Polish-language dictionary on Google Books. At first, I had no success,
    so I changed my search terms. I ended up finding a book for learning the Polish
    language written in Hebrew (or, perhaps more likely, Yiddish) which had title
    pages in Russian and Polish in addition to the language in which the book was
    written. (\"Grammatyka polska, w j\u0119zyku \u017Cydowsko-niemieckiem\", my first
    result when I searched on public-domain only on the word Polska... as different
    books are available with such a search in the U.S., U.S. searchers may have different
    results.)\r\n\r\nA book from 1883, for Jews in Russia, on how to learn Polish
    - presumably so they could move to Poland to escape the risk of pogroms in Tsarist
    Russia. I had not expected to encounter a reminder of the Holocaust as a result
    of a search on so apparently innocuous a topic."
  created: '2010-01-15 05:02:56'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<cite>> the foot of the serif should maintain a right angle<cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    mean tilt that vertical slightly counter-clockwise? A valid suggestion.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo
    clarify, I did not mean to suggest that the shape of the serif should be changed
    in any way. On the lowercase aogonek you posted, the ogonek has cannabalized the
    entire bottom of the serif, so that there is no horizontal left. (As an aside,
    it also appears that the serif on the aogonek is shorter than the regular a?)"
  created: '2010-01-15 14:01:47'
- author:
    name: Jan Zurawski
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\nIt is the joy and the honour for me to write here some my
    opinion.\r\nP. Linotype: not bad, needs some adjustment, the ogonek is definitely
    too small, rating 3/5\r\nURW Palladio: it is not an ogonek, rating 0/5\r\nURW
    Palladio L.: it is an ogonek, but in wrong place, way too small, rating 1/5\r\nTeX
    Pagella: almost perfect, could be a bit smaller and a bit thinner near the end
    (I am not sure), rating 5/5\r\nP. Nova: this idea ogonek+serif is very strange,
    good for nothing, one must shift the ogonek to the left, rating 2/5\r\n\r\nThe
    winner is TeX Palladio, the second place P. Linotype.\r\n\r\nhrant - I like your
    design here very much! Try to shift your ogoneks a bit to the left. Where are
    yours Eogonek and eogonek?\r\n\"I might make it completely smooth\" I do not like
    that idea with letter a, with letter e necessarily!\r\njcrippen - agree\r\nChristopher
    Adams - \"it also appears that the serif on the aogonek is shorter than the regular
    a?\" It also appears that the ogonek is thicker on aogonek than on Aogonek (truly
    they are the same). So it nedds to be a bit thinner.\r\n\r\nRegards from Poland\r\nJan
    \u017Burawski"
  created: '2010-01-29 19:54:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jan, thanks for the feedback. That isn't actually my design.\r\nI did however
    suggest lifting up the rightmost serif, making\r\nit flat (thus improving the
    appearance of merging).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 20:58:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Jan, I made the ogoneks that Hrant posted. Thank you for the feedback! \r\nSince
    you asked, here is the Eogonek & eogonek:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nina_eogonek_3717.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-29 21:10:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW, I didn't have to suggest anything for the E/e-ogoneks; maybe\r\nyou
    agree, they're already very good! However the raise-and-flatten\r\napproach was
    applied to a number of other glyphs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 21:34:07'
- author:
    name: Jan Zurawski
  body: "altaira - your Eogonek seems strange to me. My suggestion:)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eogonek_lifted_4981.png]\r\nMore
    rounded and a bit longer...\r\nAdam Twardoch said: <cite>The ogonek should never
    exceed the right boundary of the basic glyph.\r\n\r\nYou can trust Adam.\r\n\r\nJan
    \u017Burawski"
  created: '2010-01-29 23:16:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "If people think we should continue this someplace else: Please shout out.\r\n\r\nJan,
    I'm curious, did you change the way the ogonek connects to the \"E\" just because
    it allows you to make the ogonek itself more rounded - or does it actually seem
    like a good idea, in principle, to have that hard corner between the edge of the
    base \"E\" and the ogonek? I'm asking because that directly contradicts what I've
    been trying to do: letting the ogonek \xABgrow\xBB organically out of the base
    glyph (instead of making it look like an external addition that's been tacked
    on to an already \xABfinished\xBB letter). It would seem that smooth connections
    help achieve that."
  created: '2010-01-30 00:18:42'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "For the sake of thoroughness, here are two more samples of Palatino ogoneks.\r\n\r\n<strong>Sample
    1</strong>:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Palatino_ogonek_AT_5245.png]\r\n\r\n<em>The
    above is from Adam Twardoch's tutorial. One would assume he drew it.</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Sample
    2</strong>:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FPLNeu_ogoneks_5278.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>FPL
    Neu</strong> (based off URW Palladio L)"
  created: '2010-01-30 12:50:06'
- author:
    name: Jan Zurawski
  body: "No opposition, thus:\r\naltaira - thank you for engagement in making good
    ogoneks!\r\nhrant - \"maybe you agree, they're already very good!\" yes; this
    is talk about polishing/perfecting the font. (polishing = making the font appropriate
    to use in Polish language;)\r\n\r\n- \"make the ogonek itself more rounded\" yes,
    to be in a mood with the design of letter e.\r\nI want to start with designing
    the ogonek matching the principles of the letter e and \"letting the ogonek \xABgrow\xBB
    organically out of the base glyph\" (small e). Next step is conecting the ogonek
    to the remaining letters. Again Adam Twardoch's words: \"As ogonek is a glyph
    modifier and it should be integrated smoothly, you will be usually forced to separately
    design the area where ogonek merges with all base letters.\"\r\n- \"does it actually
    seem like a good idea, in principle, to have that hard corner between the edge
    of the base \"E\" and the ogonek?\" Yes, in my opinion. \r\n- \"letting the ogonek
    \xABgrow\xBB organically out of the base glyph\" Not out of the right-bottom corner
    of the base glyph (A, E, I...). Such design, in my own opinion, disqualify the
    delicate serif font (look at Palatino Nova above, IMHO disastrous). This is, on
    the other hand, good idea with fat sans-serifs.\r\nVery likely the picture helps
    more (not being familiar with English...)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonki2_3974.png]\r\nleft-top
    altaira's sample\r\nGeorgia - sample taken from Adam Twardoch's page, cited above\r\n\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Adams - these samples are perfect! Nice to see them here.\r\n\r\nJan \u017Burawski"
  created: '2010-01-30 13:04:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<strong>altaira</strong>: The uppercase <em>E</em> has the same feature (or
    fault) that I pointed out in the uppercase <em>A.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Viz</em>: By
    adding an ogonek of that shape in that location, you have occluded the right angle
    of the serif. One effect of Jan \u017Burawski's redrawing is that it restores
    the right angle.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nJan \u017Burawski wrote: <cite>\"does it
    actually seem like a good idea, in principle, to have that hard corner between
    the edge of the base \"E\" and the ogonek?\" Yes, in my opinion.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Jan. This is the exact point I was trying to make."
  created: '2010-01-30 13:07:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks guys. \r\nJan, are you saying that because the \"A\" (or \"E\") is
    an angular glyph, the ogonek should also connect in a corner \u2013 as opposed
    to \xABcurvy\xBB glyphs like the \"e\", where it has to grow out of the curve?
    \r\nTo me the angular versions look more tacked on. But maybe I'm looking at it
    the wrong way.\r\nI'm curious \u2013 what do you think of the Eogonek in Perpetua
    oder Bauer Bodoni as shown on Adam's site here?\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/e1ogonek_overview.gif\r\n\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    I see what you mean with the right-angle thing, but I'm not sure I agree. In the
    \"A\" and \"a\" the idea was to tilt/lift the serif, like a foot, off the baseline,
    which makes it flat on top and slanted on the bottom (and then let that slant
    extend into the ogonek); the serif isn't being distorted or enlarged, it's just
    flipped.\r\nThe situation in the \"E\" is different in that the structure of the
    base glyph is not changed with the addition of the ogonek (which does bother me
    a bit)."
  created: '2010-01-30 18:36:31'
- author:
    name: Jan Zurawski
  body: "1. design of ogonek\r\n2. resulting sketch \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonki3_6444.png]\r\nAdam
    Twardoch: \"There are two correct ways of attaching ogonek to the base serif of
    capital A. The attaching point can be either placed in the centre of the stem
    or may be merged with the inner part of the base serif. Attaching ogonek to the
    outer part of the base serif = very incorrect!\" (Adam's site, op. cit.)\r\n\r\nPlease
    remember: the ogonek does NOT alter the basic glyph (besides when someone is merging
    ogonek with inner serif of A, rare and sophisticated). \r\n\r\n- \"Eogonek in
    Perpetua oder Bauer Bodoni\": Ogonek in Perpetua should be shifted a bit to the
    left, ogonek in Bodoni is not consistent with the glyphs' axis [vertical].\r\n\r\nSee
    also: http://www.alfabety.pl/portfolio/ for example fonts Helga and Sentex, by
    \u0141ukasz Dziedzic.\r\n\r\nJan \u017Burawski\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 11:00:34'
- author:
    name: dziedzic
    picture: 110942
  body: "My short theory about ogoneks: it's just a move. Similar move to \u201Ea\u201D
    belly but shorter and faster. No details. Just fast move to next glyph. Enough."
  created: '2010-02-20 01:44:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "A quick sketch that I have done just now: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_palatino_5229.png]\r\n\r\nto
    show how the stress and the proportions might be. There many ways to do it, the
    stress and the color is the key. Also the size \u2014 since Palatino has very
    long ascenders and descenders, the ogonek should certainly not be as huge as the
    descenders. But it shouldn't be very small either. \r\n\r\nBTW, the images on
    my \"Polish how-to\" page are really quite old and I need to revise some. Indeed,
    the ogoneks in the Bauer Bodoni sample should have an upright axis. I hope I'll
    find the time to update the page. "
  created: '2010-06-21 00:57:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, the \"original\" glyph to which the ogonek attaches is the \"e\", because
    the letter \"\u0119\" is actually the Latin letter <em>e caudata</em>, which in
    the Middle Ages was an alternative way of writing <em>\xE6</em>. Later, when the
    Latin spelling standardized on using <em>\xE6</em> and later just <em>ae</em>,
    the <em>e caudate</em> letter was repurposed by the Polish to denote the nasalized
    <em>e</em>. \r\n\r\nClaude Garamond's Gros Canon includes a really beautiful <em>e
    caudata</em> which works 100% as the Polish <em>\u0119</em> today: <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/adamt/3630379481/\">(my
    image on Flickr)</a>. \r\n\r\nThe <em>cauda</em> or <em>ogonek</em> (tail) was
    later added to the other letters in Polish, and later in Lithuanian. But I still
    find that the form that merges with <em>e</em> is the key, and for me always the
    origin. In handwriting, <em>\u0119</em> is written in one move, as a kind of \"two
    semi-loops\". This is why for calligraphic designs, I usually try to replicate
    the curvature and the endine of the bottom part of <em>e</em> in the ogonek. The
    top part of the ogonek is usually a somewhat flat curve. In Palatino, I tend to
    make it a bit flatter than in other typefaces, because you have lots of those
    \"sudden flat curves\" as in the bottom part of the Roman <em>a</em> bowl. \r\n\r\nIn
    more constructed typefaces, especially those with a small aperture (i.e. where
    the glyphs <em>c</em> or <em>e</em> are rather closed), the ogonek cannot be drawn
    in one stroke with the <em>e</em> (e.g. in Univers). Then, it is usually not so
    \"closed\" either, and can be placed more freely, e.g. a bit more towards the
    middle of the letter as in \u0141ukasz Dziedzic's FF Good:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_ffgood_6254.png]\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-21 01:13:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: What about ogonek on extra bold sans with short decenders?Sometimes there  just
    isn't room for the upward curve at the end. Is a flat bottom ogonek ever acceptable?
  created: '2010-06-21 02:56:38'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nthe following shows the necessary steps of \"degradation\"
    (i.e. size reduction and shape complexity reduction) of an ogonek if the descenders
    were getting shorter and shorter:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_smaller2_4879.png]\r\n\r\n(The
    one on the left is the original FF Good by \u0141ukasz Dziedzic, the further examples
    are my take on that \"degradation\"). I hope this explains the idea. \r\n\r\nThe
    one furthest right probably makes no sense anymore in lowercase (since descenders
    are unlikely to be that short), but in an all-uppercase alphabet that is supposed
    to be \"all of the same height\", i.e. where all the Latin uppercase letters are
    supposed to fill out the vertical space, and the diacritic marks kind of \"interfere\",
    this is how you'd make it. Just a short, thick stroke, oblique to the right, that
    hints the beginning of an ogonek curve, is appropriate. \r\n\r\nPlease scroll
    to the right to see the entire image. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-21 18:12:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Adam,\r\nYour example at least has curves on the bottom of the bowls so the
    upcurved ogonek seems at home.  I was thinking of a flat bottomed sans.  I do
    see your logic though!  Thanks for the help!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apa-ogonek_4853.png]"
  created: '2010-06-21 18:45:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\ngenerally, if you take a very abstract view on the ogonek
    and imagine that it's a part of a circle (which of course it isn't, but just very
    broadly), then you have the liberty to take various \"slices\" of the circle:
    2/3 of a circle would be the fullest, 1/2 of the circle is quite common, and 1/3
    or even 1/4 of the circle are shorter. Here's this idea: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_skeleton_5803.png]\r\n\r\nOf
    course in fact, it's not part of a circle but of a calligraphic, oblique ellipse:
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_skeleton_oblique_4797.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    size of the ogonek on the left is exagerrated (for the sake of comparison), and
    it's very basic skeletons, but the principle stands. "
  created: '2010-06-21 18:51:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, in your examples, #1 and #2 work, but #3 and #4 I feel are too complex,
    The proportions are too exagerrated into the horizontal. I generally prefer ogoneks
    that are somewhat within the proportions (height-to-width aspect ratio) of the
    base letters, preferrably \"neutral\" lowercase (i.e. such as \"a\" or \"n\").
    If you look at the image below: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_proportions1_3445.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    marked with grey the area that the \"a\" glyph would take. The \"e\" is typically
    wider than the \"a\". So an ogonek that has the same aspect ratio as the \"a\"
    or as the \"e\" usually works well. If it's too narrow (like the red ones on the
    left) or too wide (like the red ones on the right), then it starts looking strange.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, the actual \"scaling factor\" between the base lowercase body
    and the ogonek body depends very much on the descenders. If they're short, you
    need to compress more. In the example above, the condensed letters (in the top
    row) would in reality unlikely have so long descenders, so some downscaling compensation
    would apply, as described below. \r\n\r\nHere's an image that shows the lowercase
    x-height body (darker gray), the ascenders and descenders zones (lighter gray)
    and the ogonek \"zone\": \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_proportions2_4830.png]\r\n\r\nJust
    like with optical sizing, if you scale down more, you have to widen a bit (that's
    the downscaling compensation I'm talking about). So if the descenders are quite
    long compared to the x-height, then the ogonek can be fairly long and then generally
    maintain the height-to-width ratio of the neutral lowercase letters. If the descenders
    are very short, so the ogonek needs to be scaled down a lot to fit into the descender
    zone, then it can be relatively a bit wider, but not too wide. If you make it
    too wide, the deviation of the aspect ratio between the main body of the letters
    and the ogoneks becomes too distracting. And that's what is happening in Chris's
    #2 and #3 examples, I think. \r\n\r\nHope this helps. "
  created: '2010-06-21 19:23:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Adam!
  created: '2010-06-21 19:23:33'
- author:
    name: Tristan Bowersox
    picture: 119242
  body: "After reading through this, I decided to try to add ogoneks to Albuquerque.
    I wonder if you might tell me how I've done. The aogonek comes in three levels
    of integration with the main form, the rightmost one being merely taken from the
    eogonek and laid on the a. For the Eogonek, I tried to somewhat hint at the line
    leading over to the serif, but because it is a slab, I can't lead off from the
    left side of it as in some of the examples posted...\r\n\r\nThe q is included
    to show you the descender line.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Albuquerque_ogoneks_3470.gif]"
  created: '2010-06-24 21:25:28'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Another sample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ogoneks2_5693.png]"
  created: '2010-06-24 23:33:29'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "These are the ogoneks included in my [[http://www.typophile.com/node/67787|project]].
    Hope they are OK.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ogoneks_4447.png]"
  created: '2010-06-24 23:34:43'
date: '2010-01-12 12:25:45'
node_type: forum
title: The Ogoneks of Palatino

---
