---
author:
  name: lolabiscuit
body: do you think children benefit from a particular type of font when they are learning
  to read?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, but the age makes a big difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 20:50:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>the age makes a big difference</cite>\r\n\r\nOf children or of typeface?
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-12 20:54:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\nI guess both!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 20:57:22'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Unfortunately only available in german but Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s [[http://www.letterror.com/noordzij/stuff/Kind%20und%20Schrift.pdf|\xBBChild
    and Letters\xAB]] still is the best on that topic."
  created: '2010-01-12 21:58:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't agree. I think it's high time that kids get over the skeleton\r\nmodel
    of lettermaking; or at the very least be taught its deficiencies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 22:02:35'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Schoolbook? New Century Schoolbook, Century Schoolbook, etc.\r\n\r\nI believe
    these are usually recommended for children. Large x-height, open, rounded, heavy.
    Apparently, we learned to read with these typefaces. I don't seem to recall but
    if I can find my Shel Silverstein books, then just maybe . . ."
  created: '2010-01-13 02:24:18'
- author:
    name: Panda
    picture: 118683
  body: "Comic Sans seems like a good option...\r\n\r\nJust kidding, don't kick me...\r\n\r\nI
    always wanted to work with a book for children. I always had the idea that if
    I have to design a story book for children of the age of 6, with short sentences
    and lots of drawings, I would ask a 6 year old kid to write it.\r\n\r\nBut of
    course, if we are talking about a book with considerable text lenght, I would
    agree with Christian. "
  created: '2010-01-13 05:37:50'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Have a look at the website of the <a href=\"http://www.kidstype.org/The%20project/Testing%20typography/Typefaces/typefaces.html\">Typographic
    Design for Children Project</a> at the University of Reading.\r\nF"
  created: '2010-01-13 09:00:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Harvey
  body: "I think the best typefaces for children would be what they're already used
    to \u2013 sounds circular but it's not really. Any faces with unusual treatments
    of letters, like Ambroise's <strong>g</strong> I'd stay away from. Children's
    brains are built to understand that different instances of the same thing are
    the same thing. If the child's parents speak with different dialects, they don't
    have problems understanding both equally well. But if someone speaking a radically
    different dialect tries communicating, the kid might get confused because they
    haven't set up the sound-equivalences in their brains yet. Similarly with type
    (I would think), they learn very quickly that single-storey <strong>a</strong>
    and two-storey <strong>a</strong> are the same thing, but might not recognise
    Galliard Italic's <strong><em>g</em></strong>. Sans vs serif? My guess would be
    any comprehension differences would be minimal and could be without significance
    difference.\r\n\r\nI'd say pick something that looks nice with your book and make
    it fun."
  created: '2010-01-13 16:01:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Hrant\r\n\r\nI think it's high time that kids get over the skeleton model
    of lettermaking; or at the very least be taught its deficiencies.\r\n\r\nCan you
    elaborate on this?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-13 19:11:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We don't read skeletons; and we read much much more than we write. So I think
    we need to at the very least instill a fruitful doubt into children concerning
    the [un]suitability of skeleton-based lettermaking in current, and most certainly
    future, society.\r\n\r\nThis is not to say people shouldn't make things by hand
    - not at all. I think that's wonderful, and a central part of being human. But
    only if there's a good reason to, and letters no longer qualify, at least not
    letters that are meant to be read.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 20:21:21'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am unsure as to your use of the word skeleton.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-13 22:01:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hrant, I am to this day confused about your position against skeleton-based
    lettermaking. As a guideline for type design, it makes ample sense. It's perfectly
    clear that type designers should be designing the inner and outer outlines, not
    some imaginary skeleton. But this should be all behind the scenes stuff, in service
    of the reader. When you talk about the need to instil doubt into children about
    skeleton-based lettermaking, you lose me. Nor is it clear to me that children
    are going to develop different opinions about letter-making just because they
    are brought up reading Legato instead of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nSkeleton-based thinking
    may be detrimental to good type design, but skeletons play a crucial part in how
    we perceive forms such as letters. We are able to recognize glyphs in vastly different
    styles to be representing the same character thanks to their shared structure.
    So lay people are perfectly justified in thinking of letters in terms of skeletons.
    They do not have to understand what makes the type they read successful, any more
    than they have to understand the theory of jet propulsion and lift to enjoy air
    travel.\r\n\r\nAlso, I am not ready to give up writing by hand. I've come to realize
    that many people hardly ever write with their own hand for anyone else to read,
    and only ever read type. But I am not convinced that we should forcibly be removing
    the connection between the forms we make by hand and the forms that we read. And
    I am certainly not convinced that we should not be writing letters by hand that
    are meant to be read.\r\n\r\nIndeed, for the moment, access to type technology
    is limited for certain cultures, and the standards of typography aren't advanced
    enough for certain writing systems for type to supplant handwriting. I understand
    Hrant's desire for progress, but be careful with pushing type too fast; limitations
    of technology have often forced simplifications on writing systems in the past
    (elimination of ligatures, conjuncts, contextual variations), whether desirable
    or not. For many writing systems, type is still playing catch-up to handwriting
    when it comes to beauty and readability."
  created: '2010-01-13 22:56:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, by \"skeleton\" I mean the paths* that a person making a letter
    follows* with a marking tool* to make positive shapes on a negative background.
    The essential problem being that this goes against reading. And the problem still
    exists -if diluted- even if a designer only thinks of this as a starting point
    and modifies the results (which is certainly common practice).\r\n\r\n* This could
    be real or virtual.\r\n\r\nBrian*, simply put, it seems to me that making letters
    -and thinking about letters- as augmented skeletons is a convenience that is now
    at the limits of paying for itself. The more time passes, the more harm we'll
    be doing by engaging in this ideological lethargy. Concerning type design, I really
    can't see how it's beneficial anymore, and I <em>can</em> see how it's harmful.\r\n\r\n*
    BTW, do you prefer Jongseong?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 18:57:38'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"We are able to recognize glyphs in vastly different styles to be
    representing the same character thanks to their shared structure.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    \xABshared structure\xBB doesn't have to imply they're all just different coverings
    on the same basic scaffolding, or skeleton. \r\nAlthough I can't claim I understand
    how we recognize letters when reading, it does seem plausible to doubt the idea
    that when we read, we somehow, internally, \xABextract\xBB (or abstract) monolinear
    \xABskeletons\xBB from whatever glyphs we're presented with, discarding serifs
    and contrast, and all that at breakneck speed. Maybe it's more helpful (more flexible)
    to think not of a shared <em>linear</em> structure, but as a shared distribution/pattern
    of <em>black and white areas</em> that is necessary to recognize a character?"
  created: '2010-01-14 19:03:00'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I might be thinking of skeleton in a broader sense than you (Nina, Hrant)
    understand.\r\n\r\nAs Nina implies, reading happens at such a basic level that
    it's beyond our ability to understand simply by reflection. Object recognition&mdash;character
    recognition included&mdash;mostly does not involve higher cognitive processes,
    but it's certainly a complex process that we have trouble replicating with machines
    (hence the existence of captchas). It's not clear which features are extracted
    from the visual inputs, and it seems that several modes may be in operation (a
    primary mode picks up simple, familiar inputs and a secondary mode distinguishes
    the details not picked up by the first one). But for me, intuitively, the idea
    is that the brain reduces the words (or any object to be recognized) into simple
    components whose spatial arrangement is the key to its recognition. There are
    multiple levels at work here, of course, and things like serifs and areas of contrast
    present visual cues that enhance recognition. These cues are of course really
    important. But I think they work in service to the primary mode of recognition,
    which is based on the spatial arrangement of the basic shapes (like the idea that
    the letter \"D\" consists of a straight vertical line segment and a curved segment
    attached to its right), which is what I'm really thinking of as the skeleton.\r\n\r\nA
    skeleton of a \"D\", absent all other cues, would still be recognizable as a \"D\".
    You can have all the components (the serifs, the contrast, etc.) that make a typographically
    successful \"D\" but if they are not put together according to the skeleton (the
    particular configuration of shapes) of a \"D\", no one will recognize it as one.
    So the skeleton is an essential part of a letter's identity, and as I think of
    it, is more abstract than merely the path traced by someone with a marking utensil
    to produce a letter.\r\n\r\nI have to admit that it's really difficult to verbalize
    and explain what I'm thinking, and it's hard to see where it is that we actually
    disagree!\r\n\r\nHrant, until most of humanity is ready to give up writing by
    hand forever, I would be hesitant to sever that link. Type design is accessible
    only to a tiny minority, and the technology is more likely to have a dumbing-down
    effect and stifle innovation. In cultures where people still produce by hand texts
    that are meant to be read, I think there is a bit more room for innovation and
    individual expression. But here, I'm thinking more of scripts like Arabic than
    Latin.\r\n\r\n(Either Brian and Jongseong is fine. They both are my given names;
    I just chose Jongseong as my ID because it would be less likely to be a duplicate
    ID. Perhaps Jongseong will be less confusing for casual readers who don't check
    the profile pages.)"
  created: '2010-01-14 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"Michael, by \"skeleton\" I mean the paths* that a person making a letter
    follows* with a marking tool* to make positive shapes on a negative background.
    The essential problem being that this goes against reading. \"\r\n\r\nO.k. how
    would you change the paths?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-14 22:50:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The point is I wouldn't use paths. It's hard to think in other terms (not
    least because we've been indoctrinated on skeletons since birth - see below) but
    we really need to think in terms of the border between the black and white, the
    interaction between not only the blacks in a setting but the whites too. This
    is what Legato does, and/but -so far- it's the only one.\r\n\r\nSince this topic
    is [supposed to be] about children, let me give an example of how we're brainwashed
    into thinking of letters in terms of skeletons from the very beginning. Look at
    this thing done by my 3-year-old in pre-school:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gorgim_4785.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt's
    the third letter of the Armenian alphabet. Now, a kid that age isn't good enough
    to draw a nice letter fluidly (at least not good enough for his parent to want
    to show it off :-) so look what they've done: they drew a circle and a couple
    of lines and told the kids to stamp along the skeleton. This isn't really [necessarily]
    a \"moving front\" thing, but the very least I can claim is it's reducing the
    chances that these kids are going to make the kinds of fonts I think we need.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 23:08:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the idea is that the brain reduces the words (or any object to be\r\n>
    recognized) into simple components whose spatial arrangement\r\n> is the key to
    its recognition.\r\n\r\nSure. But that's not how chirography works - it uses the
    idea of a \"moving front\", and the movement goes along a path. THAT is where
    the problems start, and that's what I want to limit.\r\n\r\n> until most of humanity
    is ready to give up writing by\r\n> hand forever, I would be hesitant to sever
    that link.\r\n\r\nActually it's not about completely shunning it. It's about limiting
    it, but far more than what we've seen in type design so far. Most people don't
    even see there's a problem, so they can't be part of the solution (that being
    not some utopia, but merely improvement).\r\n\r\nWe cannot improve any more along
    this path - we're stuck in a rut.\r\n\r\n> In cultures where people still produce
    by hand texts that\r\n> are meant to be read, I think there is a bit more room
    for\r\n> innovation and individual expression.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to innovation:
    I think the opposite. When it comes to expression: I think that's selfish artistry;
    typefaces can express things in a subtle, controlled way that benefits others.
    Writing by hand is self-centered.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 23:12:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"but we really need to think in terms of the border between the black and
    white, the interaction between not only the blacks in a setting but the whites
    too. This is what Legato does, and/but -so far- it's the only one.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    Hrant I think about this in every font I design. Can you break it down a little
    more. \r\n\r\nThe relationship between the \"black and white\" is paramount to
    what I do as a calligrapher. I cannot figure out how this can be altered.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 03:14:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "There is a sparkle in Legato ... to me it exists in the lighter weights as
    opposed to the further excursions into the bolder weights. As a lettering artist
    my eyes perceive a clunkiness in the bolder weights. (Hrant, I am not being antagonistic,
    o.k.?). \r\n\r\nIn calligraphy we call it dressing the bones, fleshing out the
    skeleton. To me there is a bit of awkwardness in the bolder weights as there is
    too much dressing. It is almost Koch-esque... Neuland.\r\n\r\nDoes that make sense?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 03:35:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, I'm not sure what Hrant means, but I would agree this much: the
    idea of a center line that you expand around for different weights of a design
    doesn't work very well. This is what was done by Donald Knuth in \"Metafonts,\"
    and the verdict seems to be that it didn't work. If I remember rightly, Frutiger
    makes that case, with illustrations, also in the new big book of his work. \r\n\r\nWe
    do recognize characters by something like topology. Whether a counter is closed
    or open makes a difference. Whether a line is round or has a corner is sometimes
    important also, like D vs O. But similar topology (I know I'm not using it in
    quite the right way mathematically) isn't the same as having a skeleton template
    in our heads. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I think all the stuff about a single story a
    being easier for kids, or they will be very confused by both a double and single
    story g is mostly rubbish. This is all what some adults think ought to be true,
    but probably isn't.  "
  created: '2010-01-15 03:49:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "William... to me the \"centerline\" is an abstract... merely a guide that
    I employ subconsciously when I letter... and then develop type. I do not believe
    in \"expanding/extrapolating (etc.)\" on a centerline for weights. Ugly, or rather
    lesser results.\r\n\r\nI did P22 Peanut for children. It was skeletal with built
    up \"edges.\" My kids love it and they barely know what I do so I can say they
    are unaffected by admiration :-) I will post a word.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:06:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "What do you mean by skeletal, if not the centerline thing? \r\n\r\nI'm interested
    in how you were able to balance Peanut with the baseline jumping around playfully.
    Did you have some guiding idea, or just play with it until it looked right--or
    both?"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:20:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Here it is...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kids_6153.png]\r\n\r\nNow
    this sets at fairly small sizes well. I have seen a number of books already. But
    this is, or was conceived by doing a skeleton, or bones, and then dressing them.
    \r\n\r\nHrant, what did I do wrong? Simplistically, it sets well and is readable.
    How could I make it better according to your standards/qualifications? I really
    am interested in a different perspective.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:23:57'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "The bounce happened as a result of decades of play. It becomes second nature...
    much like lettering on black paper without lines :-)\r\n\r\nAs to the skeleton...
    everything was built outwards with the point of a ruling pen on an interior shape
    (not a center line) made with the same tool.\r\n\r\nP.s. It is mathematics on
    the bounce... letter occurrence, what happens to the next most often etc,.  Tens
    of thousands of hand made letters sinks in after a while.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:33:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Are you saying you drew a fine line letter shape, and then filled it our
    by drawing ink lines at right angles to it, but varying how far stuff when left
    and right? '
  created: '2010-01-15 04:40:51'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No pencils. Shapes drawn with a ruling pen and then, point by point, additional
    weight was added to flesh out the letters.\r\n\r\nSee if this helps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pp_3464.png]\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:48:05'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: How about that for some manipulation William :-)
  created: '2010-01-15 04:50:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting. So you have to keep adjusting the pen for the different sized
    dots?\r\n\r\n--and is that printed passage from something of yours?"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:56:32'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "My fourth book.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, first of all: the balanced tone is noted, appreciated and useful.\r\nAnd
    most of all, it helps me stay cool on my end!\r\n\r\nIt's highly commendable and
    fruitful for somebody chirographically inclined to note the importance of the
    White and take steps to account for it; this is something many people who disagree
    with my conclusions have cited, and I believe them. I also have to nonetheless
    believe that the qualitative limitation remains - that as long as you're \"painting\"
    the black you cannot really treat the White equally. No matter how you twist and
    turn while marking the Black, it can't be as ideal as marking their border.\r\n\r\nA
    fitting parallel I like to draw is the relationship of Thomas Jefferson and Sally
    Hemings, his slave. No matter how much he loved her, the fact that she remained
    his slave limited the relationship greatly.\r\n\r\n> As a lettering artist my
    eyes perceive a clunkiness in the bolder weights.\r\n\r\nI propose that this is
    an aesthetic preference, formed by many years of attentive chirography. I might
    go further and say that even a \"regular\" person who hasn't paid much attention
    to how he makes his letters will feel that awkwardness. The important thing to
    remember however is that Legato is a text face (to me at least) which means conscious
    evaluation of large settings is beside the point, and its breaking of the Black
    is what gives it a presumed (and I feel probable) superiority in text.\r\n\r\n>
    This is what was done by Donald Knuth in \"Metafonts,\"\r\n\r\nInspired, quite
    tellingly, by the work of Zapf, a prominent chirographic designer. But no matter
    how much they tried, they couldn't get \"stroke\" fonts to look good.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I put forth is that the thing that makes Knuth's fonts fail is present to at least
    some extent in <em>any</em> chirographic typeface.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:03:57'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The book I enjoy (from a type perspective) most in my kid's collection is
    set in Prater. Font is pure genius. Of course my daughter doesn't care for the
    book. But that is a story issue. My kids will tolerate just about any font when
    properly motivated. \r\n\r\nRather than find a significantly \"better\" style
    of font, I marvel at my daughter's ability to readily identify letters in an amazing
    variety of typefaces. Sans, Serif, and even Script. She is 2 1/2.\r\n\r\nBTW typerror,
    never seen that technique -- thanks for sharing -- it looks fun! (perhaps a bit
    tedious for ultra black :-)"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:05:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Where can we find your books, Michael?
  created: '2010-01-15 05:11:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what did I do wrong?\r\n\r\nFirst of all, I wouldn't say \"wrong\", but
    something like \"non-optimal for text\". But that's not a text face anyway, so
    it barely matters - it might in fact be better this way.\r\n\r\n> The bounce happened
    as a result of decades of play.\r\n\r\nBasically the anecdotal sister of how Excoffon
    did his bounce in Mistral: via statistical analysis of letter adjacency (at least
    in part).\r\n\r\n> Rather than find a significantly \"better\" style of font,
    I marvel\r\n> at my daughter's ability to readily identify letters in an amazing\r\n>
    variety of typefaces.\r\n\r\nI think it's entirely possible to marvel in this
    way at the amazing human brain/mind but still look for ways to help people read
    better, subconsciously, without even realizing it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:15:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"an aesthetic preference\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely Hrant. But we are what we eat
    :-)\r\n\r\n\"that as long as you're \"painting\" the black you cannot really treat
    the White equally\"\r\n\r\nBut see this is where I disagree. I strive to balance
    the two, how could I have done it better in Peanut? I was totally obsessed with
    the white, almost to the exclusion of the black... but I reigned myself back in.
    I believe, although it is not a text face, I balanced the need between the two.\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:18:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I did not know that Excoffon incorporated statistics into Mistral. My analysis
    is practical, with a prod from my statistics background. In the end it was really
    intuition based on the two.\r\n\r\nHe was a MAGNIFICENT painter wasn't he? \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I cannot create forms, in black, without great scrutiny to the impact it is having
    on the white. Certainly I pay attention to the small affectations in black but
    my concentration is always on balance between the two. Always an exercise in \"volume\"
    if you will.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:39:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mistral: it's interesting how people report that it produces better-looking
    French text than English text; presumably this is because the linguistic statistics
    used were for French!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:48:23'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI just read over my post and the word volume hit me between
    the eyes. A calligrapher like myself spaces his forms based on volume. Much like
    the white/black relationship (volume) of the forms. I need to think about this.
    Can we pick this up in the a.m.?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 05:52:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We can pick it up in 2011 if you like!  :-)\r\nThis stuff takes time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 06:06:51'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I will try to explain why handwriting is not something to be so easily discarded.
    Despite its obvious limitations, it has probably done more for readability than
    most purposely non-chirographic thinking, especially the tendency to \"rational\",
    geometric shapes.\r\n\r\nTake Legato. When I see Legato, I don't see clunkiness.
    As Hrant posits, if you are conditioned to expect only strokes that look like
    they could plausibly formed with certain writing implements, it may look awkward.
    But if you don't have that baggage, the letters look perfectly natural.\r\n\r\nEven
    more, I get a calligraphic feel from Legato (Hrant is going to furiously raise
    his eyebrows at this). It's certainly not calligraphic in the way the strokes
    are formed; the strokes emerge from the simultaneous design of the black and the
    white, not from expansion along a path. Rather, it's because Legato has a gentle
    but noticeable contrast in the strokes that depends on the angle. You can see
    that Legato's \"O\" is thinnest around 5 o' clock and 11 o' clock.\r\n\r\nThis
    sort of stroke modulation owes much to calligraphy, especially with the broad
    nib. At the risk of broad simplification, I think this enhances readability by
    adding more visual cues that distinguish differently-angled strokes than just
    the angles themselves.\r\n\r\nLegato's \"O\" warrants another look, as it is not
    the vertically symmetric shape found in many sans designs but is gently inclined,
    much like a handwritten \"O\". The curves in Legato generally stay away from the
    simple and symmetric shapes favoured by rationalists. This is good for readability
    because it means more cues for distinguishing different letters. If \"humanist
    sans serif\" is a term that is set in opposition to the constructed shapes of
    geometrics and grotesques, then Legato out-humanists the humanist sans designs
    that are more explicitly based on calligraphy, being constrained by neither simple
    geometry nor the devotion to shapes that can be produced by hand.\r\n\r\nSo Legato's
    strengths, I would say, are in taking from the good from handwriting without actually
    being constrained to make something looking like handwriting.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    these aspects of handwriting that aid in readability developed mostly accidentally
    and subconsciously. A handwritten \"O\" is inclined because it is easier to write,
    due to handedness or whatever, not primarily because it is easier to read. Also,
    people must have liked the shapes produced by writing utensils that give stroke
    contrast for reasons of style, not readability (at least not consciously). Indeed,
    I think extreme contrast may hurt readability, but it is often pursued for stylistic
    reasons.\r\n\r\nBut handwriting is much faster than designing type, and it gives
    room for great variety and experimentation. Through repeated practice, people
    can learn how to correct for optical illusions and give even texture while still
    making easily distinguishable shapes. Also, because they are not constrained to
    a limited glyph set, they can automatically adjust shapes to prevent clashes.\r\n\r\nSo
    I still think a thorough familiarity with handwriting and making letters by hand
    is beneficial to type design. As long as you don't think of type as something
    to reproduce the shapes made by hand but as a medium to free you from those constraints
    (admittedly quite tricky), your experience and ideas shaped by making letters
    by hand should be helpful."
  created: '2010-01-15 10:42:47'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Brian\r\n\r\nMaybe clunky was a bad choice of words... the forms (in the
    bolder weights) look almost contrived... that may not be any better. It is not
    a negative, just a perception. I do not think Hrant is suggesting the outlawing
    of the written form.\r\n\r\nI am still thinking about the volume aspect as this
    is where I think I might just understand what he is trying to say. I just have
    to reread all of Hrant's post so that we are talking apples and apples. We come
    from such different worlds.\r\n\r\nStill digesting and trying to formulate.\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Don't go away Hrant, just give me a bit more time to formulate my questions. O.K.?\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-15 15:42:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Jongseong: <em>Also, people must have liked the shapes produced by writing
    utensils that give stroke contrast for reasons of style, not readability (at least
    not consciously). </em>\r\n\r\nWhere does that conclusion come from? "
  created: '2010-01-15 16:09:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, to me also some of Legato's characters look clunky, for example
    the heavy top of the s. To me the whole reverse-contrast thing just doesn't work
    in roman lower case. Heavy horizontal and light vertical works in Hebrew, but
    the glyphs are designed quite differently. \r\n\r\nLegato is not in principle
    reverse-contrast, as it has the principle of twisting the outer forward and inner
    back. But the result in the case of the s is reverse contrast anyway. \r\n\r\nThe
    other shapes I don't find particularly attractive either, but the 'clunky' I think
    is where the reversed-contrast pokes its head up. "
  created: '2010-01-15 16:19:50'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Craig, that was perhaps a bit presumptuous on my part to make such conclusions
    on the intentions of whoever introduced stroke contrast. It's just that I think
    style is more visible than good readability (\"Hmm, that looks more stylish\"
    seems more likely than \"Hmm, that is easier to read\"). But maybe I'm denying
    our forebearers credit unjustly here. We're certainly not the first generation
    to question how to serve the reader more.\r\n\r\nWilliam, the reverse contrast
    (which you also see to some degree in letters like \"a\" and \"e\") doesn't bother
    me as much, maybe because I'm used to the stroke contrast model of the Korean
    alphabet and Chinese characters. These certainly don't have reverse contrast,
    but they can have lots of parallel horizontal strokes, and a common solution is
    to make the outer strokes slightly heavier; it's easier to see that applying this
    principle to the Latin lower case letters having some crowded horizontal strokes
    will yield heavy top and bottom strokes."
  created: '2010-01-15 19:29:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Brian, I think the a in Legato is actually pretty nice. The e I don't mind
    the thinner crossbar--Gill sans does have thinning in e and a somewhat similar,
    and it doesn't bother me, though some don't like it. So I don't object to the
    principle you mentioned of thinning inner strokes. \r\n\r\nBut the left side of
    the e looks lumpy to me. It may be the thinness at the the northwest corner, I'm
    not sure. I just think the theory he operated on ends up with somewhat awkward,
    lumpy looking glyphs. "
  created: '2010-01-16 02:16:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Why do kids get a different typeface than adults. How 'bout just a good one
    that fits the material. Reading is reading. \r\n\r\nBut, for some amaizing type
    treatments for kids, checkout some books by Virginia Lee Burton. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 03:34:15'
- author:
    name: gagnerargent
  body: Some children do like Comic Sans.
  created: '2010-01-16 10:46:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Why do kids get a different typeface than adults\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWell
    if they're still in the age/stage where they don't read fluidly, they might benefit
    from less \xABtypographically complex\xBB fonts no?* I'm assuming that their \xABreading\xBB
    is really closer to slow \xABdeciphering\xBB than to the fast reading that experienced
    readers do when they read long text. \r\n(* I remember reading books beyond my
    age group at a fairly early stage, and getting seriously confused by ligatures,
    which I couldn't read.)"
  created: '2010-01-16 13:31:34'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "There is nothing wrong with children being challenged. If the subject matter
    is fun and interesting, the challenge can even be part of the fun. I think there
    is something wrong with playing down to kids. If there is something about a font
    that takes an experienced reader to decipher, then it probably isn't a good font
    to use for extended reading. When was little  was challenged by 'b's and 'd's.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 15:52:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "gagnerargent:\r\nChildren also like to have chocolate cake for breakfast,
    lunch and dinner.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 16:11:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> handwriting .... has probably done more for readability than\r\n> most
    purposely non-chirographic thinking, especially the tendency\r\n> to \"rational\",
    geometric shapes.\r\n\r\nThere's no way I can see that at all. And you should
    not equate Cartesian-grid design with what I'm saying. I am in fact quite opposed
    to geometry in type design.\r\n\r\nSo what's the alternative to chirography and
    geometry?\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\n> I get a calligraphic feel from Legato (Hrant is\r\n>
    going to furiously raise his eyebrows at this)\r\n\r\nNah, I'm totally used to
    it (and the same thing happens -actually, it's <em>supposed to</em>- when I show
    people my Paphos). People see what they want. That doesn't make a designer's thinking
    inferior; it might even reveal a weakness in the viewer.\r\n\r\nThat said, seeing
    things that aren't there can be very good for you, and eventually for others.
    When I was in Bangkok I saw certain things only because I'd never been inside
    such a culture before; and I made my Daam Entity as a result.\r\n\r\n> This sort
    of stroke modulation owes much to calligraphy\r\n\r\nWeight contrast (\"<em>stroke</em>
    contrast\" is misleading) is indeed beneficial to readability. But do not confuse
    its origins with its usefulness. You can be inspired by something but nonetheless
    see that it was something akin to \"dumb luck\".\r\n\r\nThe broad-nib was broad
    for a very simple, \"dumb\" reason: you needed that so you put down enough ink.
    This is now completely beside the point - in fact it has been for centuries. You
    nicely allude to this yourself.\r\n\r\n> people must have liked the shapes produced
    by writing\r\n> utensils that give stroke contrast for reasons of style\r\n\r\nMust?
    If anything I would suggest it was the other way around.\r\n\r\n> But handwriting
    is much faster than designing type\r\n\r\nYou should not separate the making from
    the using - that's Art, not Craft. In fact handwriting is much much slower at
    communicating, which is why printing was invented, and now completely dominates.\r\n\r\n>
    it gives room for great variety and experimentation.\r\n\r\nBut on a much more
    superficial level. Sort of like talking versus writing; the former cannot hope
    to achieve the depths of the latter, in fact because in the making it is too rushed.\r\n\r\n>
    To me the whole reverse-contrast thing just doesn't work\r\n\r\nBut you're not
    the customer; what about readers?\r\n\r\nAnd as you say, it's not really reverse-contrast.
    Legato's genius is that it separates weight contrast from chirography and thus
    attempts to leverage it ideally. If some glyphs end up with horizontal contrast
    and some vertical, so be it; this is not display typography.\r\n\r\n> We're certainly
    not the first generation to question how to serve the reader more.\r\n\r\nBut
    we <em>are</em> a generation that, because we have the tools and the insights
    of Javal and discussions such as this, now has a duty to actually do it.\r\n\r\n>
    I think the a in Legato is actually pretty nice. The e I don't mind ....\r\n\r\nThis
    is display-font talk.\r\n\r\n> Reading is reading.\r\n\r\nActually reading changes
    quite abruptly around age 10.\r\n\r\n> There is nothing wrong with children being
    challenged.\r\n\r\nIndeed - and sadly we're doing that less and less. We don't
    let them climb trees anymore. But the challenges should ideally be conducive towards
    something. It's important to remember you can learn to read, or read to learn.
    For the former I would challenge children on a letterform level, moving them from
    deliberative to immersive reading (for example by introducing a binocular \"g\");
    for the latter I would simply make it as easy as possible to get at the content.\r\n\r\nThey
    will ask: \"Why is the 'g' different in these two books?\"\r\nGood!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 18:29:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Children also like to have chocolate cake for breakfast, lunch and dinner.</em>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4K5YBNQq-Qo|Case
    in point.]]"
  created: '2010-01-16 18:33:31'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"The broad-nib was broad for a very simple, \"dumb\" reason: you needed
    that so you put down enough ink.\"\r\n\r\nNot even close Hrant!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-19 01:32:12'
date: '2010-01-12 20:00:42'
title: typography in childrens books

---
