---
author:
  name: lolabiscuit
body: Can creativity be taught?
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Perhaps, perhaps not.\r\n\r\nBut it can be beaten out of you."
  created: '2010-01-12 20:46:06'
- author:
    name: jarofmoths
    picture: 113378
  body: No, but it can be untaught. Young brains are creative and inventive, but somewhere
    along the line we're taught to color inside the lines.
  created: '2010-01-12 20:46:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, but it can be triggered.\r\nTravel does it nicely for me.\r\n\r\nBecca,
    yes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 20:55:27'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: I definitely agree with all of the sentiments so far :-)
  created: '2010-01-12 20:57:07'
- author:
    name: lolabiscuit
  body: "studying English pupils develop skills in speaking, listening, reading and
    writing.It enables them to express themselves creatively and imaginatively and
    tocommunicate with others effectively.Pupils learn to become enthusiastic\u201D
    \r\n\r\nthis is written in the national curriculum do you agree with it?"
  created: '2010-01-12 21:02:17'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "You can teach methods to find more ideas. \r\nMore ideas = more chances of
    getting something creative!"
  created: '2010-01-12 21:05:46'
- author:
    name: dynamic75
    picture: 118903
  body: My first year in college I read "Drawing on the right side of the Brain" by
    Betty Edwards. I agree with hrant, it can be triggered and inspired.
  created: '2010-01-12 23:02:16'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Curiosity, which I believe to be intrinsic to creativity, can be taught by
    parents. Maybe a better word is instilled.\r\n\r\nI agree that it can also be
    pounded out of some folks, but not someone who is truly curious. Otherwise there
    would be no curiosity because we all take a pounding sooner or later.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-12 23:02:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "creativity = the ability to create \r\n\r\nas such, one could argue that's
    an inherit trait of humans, and a handful of other animals.\r\n\r\nSo, the core
    ability it already there. We can be taught to leverage our innate abilities.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-12 23:25:46'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "It is more easily stifled than taught.\r\n\r\nmy own observation is that
    uncreative people (in the sense people mean it when the say \"creative\" :o) is
    that they are afraid to make mistakes, or make fools of them selves\u2014And that
    skill & virtuosity are often confused for creativity. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 00:11:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Let me propose, by way of a thought experiment, that creativity is a construct,
    a label for a presumed enabling property of beings that create, a property whose
    existence is presumed from observation of created things or the process of creating
    them. So what would the practical difference be between teaching creativity --
    by which I would understand deliberately encouraging, fostering and developing
    this presumed enabling property -- and teaching creation -- by which I would mean
    teaching the making of things? Put it another way: how could you tell whether
    you had successfully taught creativity other than by observation of things created?
    I''ve met many people over the years who claim to be creative -- by which they
    mean that they have an idea of themselves, which they like, as creative people
    -- but who don''t actually make anything. I think they''re full of... but that''s
    because the proof of the pudding is, if not in the eating, at very least in its
    tangible existence.'
  created: '2010-01-13 02:13:40'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "You can at least teach all of the creative buzzwords. Innovation experience
    solutions are always achievable in no more than three ground-breaking steps.\r\n\r\nTo
    be serious, though, there are two parts to creativity: the ability to create,
    and the joy of creating. I'm not sure, but I think that the joy is the critical
    ingredient. I'm not sure how to teach that, but I imagine it could be inspired."
  created: '2010-01-13 02:38:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know, I just make stuff and always have. The word \"creative\" when
    applied by a person to themselves just seems suspect and a bit self-righteous.\r\nIf
    someone wants to call stuff made by others \"creative\" or some mystical process
    people go through to make stuff, that even sounds a bit over the top to me. I
    am just as happy with \"making stuff\" and hope a few people are happy with the
    stuff.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-13 03:02:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: I think you're right, Chris. Creativity is more of a verdict than an characteristic.
  created: '2010-01-13 03:15:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Back to the original question: You can teach someone to make observations
    and then extrapolate on what they observe. What can't be taught is passion for
    this process.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-13 06:38:43'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: "Regarding the untaught/beaten out of you aspect:\r\n[[http://www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity.html|Ken
    Robinson says schools kill creativity]].\r\nInsightful, touching, entertaining
    \u2013 and proving its own point."
  created: '2010-01-13 08:59:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ danpetter: How are you creating links? Mine all appear as code. And am
    I correct in assuming that it's not really supposed to have the wiki \"w\" by
    it?\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2010-01-13 14:58:30'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I remember taking a course a few years back in the BFA wing of the local
    university, and be appalled by the crap that was posted on the walls. I had seen
    better work at our local small town fall fair, from the high school students.\r\n\r\nThen
    I realized that the BFA program was not teaching people how to be artists, it
    was teaching people how to be art teachers.\r\n\r\nSo no, you cannot teach creativity
    or talent."
  created: '2010-01-13 15:08:51'
- author:
    name: Dr jack
    picture: 115796
  body: "It's easier to dismiss the availability of creativity, then realize it's
    as accessible as your favorite soap on Shelf 4, Aisle 5 of your local Store. Go
    on reach for it.\r\n\r\nCreativity or the ability to let go and be open to multiple
    directions and new mental wanderings CAN be taught.\r\n\r\nIt's all there for
    the taking.\r\n\r\nThe simplest tangible road maps lie in the imagery progression
    of Pablo Picasso, and the word play and story telling of Bob Dylan's catalog.
    You don't have to like either. Just understand it.\r\n\r\nThe blue-print was established
    a long time ago. It's just that Joe Average believes there is a road-block to
    creativity somewhere out there on the horizon. \r\n\r\nThere is no traffic on
    the creativity highway."
  created: '2010-01-13 15:57:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Before this can be resolved we all need to agree on a common definition of
    creativity. Until then, we are all arguing separate points. \r\n\r\nIf I were
    to define creativity as \"a neurophysiological process in which the brain forms
    new associative neural pathways\" it can be argued that yes, creativity can be
    taught. For an excellent documentary on neural plasticity see \"The brain that
    changes itself.\""
  created: '2010-01-13 16:14:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dan, indeed formal education does stifle creativity as a rule (although as
    always there are exceptions).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 17:15:45'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Codification of knowledge in creative pursuits is an oxymoron. The commodification
    of knowledge is unjust. But I'm glad my doctor has a degree. :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-13 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: Panda
    picture: 118683
  body: "Creativity can be taught, I believe in this because I don't consider myself
    a creative person. I have methods to make my designs be creative and original.
    \r\n\r\nWhen I met graphic designer Lorenzo Shakespear from the [[http://www.webshakespear.com.ar/|Estudio
    Shakespear]] he said that I shouldn't read too many graphic design books. Instead
    he encouraged me to keep reading literature, magazines, listening to good music,
    travelling, meeting people, etc. All these things conform our cultural packbag,
    and as we keep learning things, this packbag will get bigger. \r\n\r\nThe cultural
    packbag is a tool that helps to provide a solution of a problem without having
    too many input information about it. \r\n\r\nAnother tool that we can add is our
    \"eye training\". Watching and studing good design will help us have a more accurate
    selfcriticism about what we do. \r\n\r\nThis tools make us see things in a different
    way, in a creative way, because sometimes (I don't know who said this) creativity
    is not only to create something that nobody has ever seen, but also, to think
    what nobody ever thought about something that everybody sees.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 19:21:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "We humans are routinely creative, for example in creating new sentences,
    never written or said before. So talking about creativity can sound rather pretentious.
    \ \r\n\r\nBut I do think that there is something real when people talk about teaching
    creativity. I think they are referring to finding innovative and good solutions
    to problems. The problem can be of any sort: it may have to do with how to paint
    trees or prove a mathematical theorem or run a successful political campaign.
    But in all cases it refers to a difficult problem, and finding innovative solutions.
    \r\n\r\nThings that are involved are imagination, focus, discipline, and the ability
    to get into that state now called \"flow\". I think the nature of this kind of
    creativity, and whether you can foster it, are really interesting questions. I
    don't know the answers.\r\n\r\nedit: Ok so I lied. I do know a small part of the
    answer, as I wrote a book about it: [[http://www.amazon.com/Learning-Error-Karl-Poppers-Psychology/dp/0912050748/ref=sr_1_7?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1263410545&sr=8-7|Learning
    from Error: Karl Popper's Psychology of Learning]] (also in [[http://www.amazon.de/Bedeutung-Lerntheorie-Psychologie-Philosophie-Wissenschaft/dp/B0020I1UI6/ref=sr_1_5?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1263410680&sr=8-5|German
    edition]].  This is really about creative problem-solving. One aspect of really
    innovative work is that you don't take past ideas as a given, but are willing
    to look critically at where the old ideas don't work. Then you try to find solutions
    that work better for those places the old ideas didn't work so well. Einstein
    had this kind of attitude--in spades, as they say.   "
  created: '2010-01-13 19:28:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'the wiki "w" seems to be a bug that crept in during maintenance. '
  created: '2010-01-13 19:35:36'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: "Christopher:\r\n\r\n<em>How are you creating links?</em>\r\n(two left square
    brackets) link target (vertical line) text appearing as link (two right square
    brackets)\r\n\r\n<em>And am I correct in assuming that it's not really supposed
    to have the wiki \"w\" by it?</em>\r\nIndeed it should not, and i don't think
    it ever had it before."
  created: '2010-01-13 19:36:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So far, we have the following proposed definitions of creativity (with the
    caveat that the people who put forward these definitions may not be committed
    to them):\r\n\r\nDarrel: <em>the ability to create</em>\r\n\r\nMe: <em>a presumed
    enabling property of beings that create</em>\r\n\r\nJack: <em>the ability to let
    go and be open to multiple directions and new mental wanderings</em> [cf: Russell's
    suggestion that \u2018uncreative\u2019 people are \u2018afraid to make mistakes,
    or make fools of them selves\u2019]\r\n\r\nChristopher: <em>a neurophysiological
    process in which the brain forms new associative neural pathways</em>\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that we either need to distinguish mental creativity or \u2018creative
    thinking\u2019 from creative acts, i.e. making things (as Chris put it with admirable
    clarity), or find a way to unify the mental and physical phenomena.\r\n\r\nI don't
    find the romantic view of mental creativity helpful, since it relies entirely
    on metaphors (openness, wandering, road maps, blue-prints, highway); it may be
    an <em>example</em> of creative thinking -- and perhaps even evidence that creativity
    is not something that can be nailed down analytically --, but it is also a demonstration
    that metaphors tend to lead only to more metaphors.\r\n\r\nChrisopher's proposed
    definition seems unromantic, but it strikes me as begging the question to apply
    the label \u2018creativity\u2019 to the formation of new associative neural pathways,
    since the formation of such pathways does not necessarily correspond to what we
    commonly understand by creativity as e.g. observable in the making of things.
    If a definition requires abandoning common usage in favour of a novel scientific
    application, we have to acknowledge that we are no longer talking about the same
    things. Both common and specialised usage of terms may have their place, but one
    can't be taken to trump the other.\r\n\r\nThis leaves us with the notion of ability
    or enabling property, another word for which is talent. As I said above, I think
    such a property is presumed on the basis of observation: we see people creating
    things or we see the things that people have created, and we presume a property
    in the people that enables them to create things, and we label this property \u2018creativity\u2019.
    Like most enabling properties, it has to be innate at some level; even virtuoso
    performances requiring highly developed enabling properties rely on innate properties
    that in enable such development. So I don't think creativity could be taught,
    as it were, from scratch, as a purely cultural transmission without a pre-existing
    natural transmission of an innate creative property. It follows then, that if
    the phrase \u2018teaching creativity\u2019 has any sensible meaning, then it must
    imply fostering or developing of that innate property.\r\n\r\nIt may also imply,
    in many situations, simply getting the hell out of the way."
  created: '2010-01-13 19:41:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bill, your post arrived after I'd started writing mine, and I don't want to
    have to go back and edit what I wrote to accommodate your comments re. creative
    problem solving. Suffice to say that I think this is another situation in which
    we need to either properly distinguish or properly unify creative thinking with
    creative making. I waver as to whether I think we should distinguish or unify,
    split or lump.
  created: '2010-01-13 19:47:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Creative making is to me just another case of creative problem solving. Popper
    said this explicitly, incidentally. \r\n\r\nI should have written that the kind
    of \"creativity\" people have been most interested in studying is innovative and
    good solutions to *difficult* problems. For example this is a classic in the field
    (which alas I haven't read): [[http://www.amazon.com/Psychology-Invention-Mathematical-Field/dp/0486201074/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1263412420&sr=8-1|The
    Psychology of Invention in the Mathematical Field]].\r\n\r\nLet me plug also a
    recent one by my friend Nancy Nersessian: [[http://www.amazon.com/Creating-Scientific-Concepts-Bradford-Books/dp/0262141051/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1263412561&sr=8-1|Creating
    Scientific Concepts]].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 19:58:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'If I were to hire a designer (a "creative"!), I would look to hire someone
    with the capacity to solve problems creatively. The proof of that would be in
    his or her past creations, true; but it make more sense to me to say that I''m
    looking to pay him or her for the capacity, since it''s now my problems that need
    solving and they will differ from those in his or her past. I don''t want those
    old solutions to those problems repeated; I want the same creativity that solved
    them working on my problems. '
  created: '2010-01-13 20:00:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Creative making is to me just another case of creative problem
    solving. Popper said this explicitly, incidentally.</em>\r\n\r\nI think I disagree
    with Popper on this, or at least I think one needs to over-generalise the notion
    of \u2018problem solving\u2019 in order to rope in all creative activity. Most
    obviously, I don't think art can be explained in terms of problem solving, because,
    really, what's the problem that a painting solves? There are material problems
    in the making of things, and compositional problems, and these may benefit from
    -- but do not necessarily require -- creative solutions, but neither these problems
    nor their solutions constitute art.\r\n\r\nI also don't accept the notion of design
    as problem solving; or, rather, I accept that only as one working approach to
    design, and not always the best one. Most often, it is an educational approach,
    i.e. a way to teach design, which produces designers who use this approach. But
    every once in a while one meets designers who, either because they were trained
    in a different way or because they have consciously rejected the problem-solving
    approach, do things differently. Peter Bil'ak, for example, considers reading,
    rather than problem solving, to be the paradigm of design. I find this an especially
    interesting idea, because it allows the possibility that even those designers
    who imagine themselves to be problem solving might actually be reading. :)"
  created: '2010-01-13 20:26:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Another proposed definition, from Ken Robinson's TED talk:\r\n\r\n<em>the
    process of having original ideas that have value</em>\r\n\r\nThis one is interesting
    in a couple of ways. The notion of value, of course, presumes judgement, although
    Robinson smartly does not provide criteria for such judgement. But perhaps the
    key aspect of this definition, that differs from those put forward so far in this
    discussion, is that Robinson defines creativity as a process, rather than as an
    ability or a property."
  created: '2010-01-13 20:31:33'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Even Mr. Bil'ak had to try and solve this problem: his philosophy. Which
    is a problem with no clear solution.\r\n\r\nCreativity is a process of observation
    and extrapolation. You can teach the steps, but you cannot teach passion for it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-13 20:45:01'
- author:
    name: Panda
    picture: 118683
  body: "John: I like that Ken Robinson's idea of creativity as a process. But I don't
    get that what you said:\r\n\r\n<cite>I also don't accept the notion of design
    as problem solving.</cite>\r\n\r\nDesign DOES solve problems, communication problems. "
  created: '2010-01-13 20:53:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John problem-solving is a process. Nancy's book is about understanding that
    process in science.\r\n\r\nPopper has an essay called [[http://www.amazon.com/Life-Problem-Solving-Karl-Popper/dp/0415249929/ref=sr_1_8?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1263414930&sr=8-8|All
    life is problem solving]], so obviously he would have disagreed with you about
    whether art and design are problem-solving. \r\n\r\nArt is problem-solving, but
    is unusual in that it includes self-expression as a primary goal, which design
    doesn't usually.\r\n\r\nIn [[http://vimeo.com/7252845|this lovely talk]], Michael
    Bierut eloquently argues that design is a kind of problem-solving, and in a way
    that I think is totally convincing. It certainly corresponds to my experience
    in design. \r\n\r\nMaybe we mean something different by problem-solving. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said, what people are usually interested in when they talk about creativity
    is the process that leads to that special class of solutions: innovative and excellent
    solutions to difficult problems.  \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-13 21:21:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Panda, language solves communication problems. Design solves problems created
    by design, i.e. by failure to use language. :)\r\n\r\nBut accepting, for the sake
    of argument, your claim that design does solve problems, that doesn't imply that
    problem solving is either the primary function of design or the singular approach
    to be taken to design. It just happens to be an approach that has proven itself
    saleable. It sounds better to walk into a client's offices and say \u2018I'm here
    to solve your problems\u2019 than it does to say \u2018I'm your new esthetician\u2019.
    Of course, Popper would say that an esthetician is problem solving when she's
    buffing your nails, but that's what I mean when I say that Popper over-generalised
    the notion of problem solving to the point where it means everything -- \u2018all
    life\u2019 in his own words -- and hence means nothing very useful. I don't doubt
    that a case can be made that manicures solve problems, but that doesn't mean that
    problem solving is the essential nature of what a manicurist does and I don't
    believe it is the essential nature of design. It is possible to practice design
    -- and probably manicures -- in a way that puts a focus on problem solving processes,
    and many people do this very successfully and many teachers in design schools
    encourage or enforce this approach (and is <em>that</em> \u2018teaching creativity\u2019?).
    My point is that it is not a focus or an approach that is essential to the nature
    of design, that other approaches and foci are possible, and that they may, in
    fact, be more creative.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nBill: <em>Art is problem-solving...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the problem?\r\n\r\n<em>...but is unusual in that it includes self-expression
    as a primary goal...</em>\r\n\r\nI do not believe that is a primary goal of art.
    Self-expression is a post-romantic approach to art, and as such is inapplicable,
    except anachronistically and anaculturally, to most of the art that our species
    has produced.\r\n\r\nIn a recent essay, Robert Bringhurst made a comment something
    to the effect that art that expresses only your self isn't trying very hard. Quite.\r\n\r\n<em>As
    I said, what people are usually interested in when they talk about creativity
    is the process that leads to that special class of solutions: innovative and excellent
    solutions to difficult problems.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a good observation. It inspires
    me to be a splitter: I think creative problem solving -- this thing that \u2018people
    are usually interested in when they talk about creativity\u2019 -- needs to be
    distinguished from creative making, because I don't think the latter can be subsumed
    in toto under \u2018problem solving\u2019. I can't think that, because I'm sitting
    here surrounded by too many created things that are not examples of problem solving."
  created: '2010-01-14 02:01:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In Popper's terms, problems are difficulties achieving a goal. The goal orientation
    of human behavior, and the constant effort to overcome difficulties to achieve
    goals I think is very accurate. I don't think it's generality means that it's
    not a useful concept. On the contrary, looking at goals and difficulties is an
    extremely useful tool for analysis of many activities. \r\n\r\nPlease don't saddle
    Popper with the idea of art as self-expression, as he rejected it. He ridiculed
    it by saying that sneezing is also self expression. \r\n\r\nI think there's an
    element of truth in the idea that art is partly self expression, but I was referring
    to that theory mainly to include the personal and emotional element in art. \r\n\r\nI
    haven't read much in aesthetics, and only know What is Art by R.G. Collingwood--a
    pretty interesting book, at least in the first half. I don't know a general definition
    of the goal of art, but if you go to something specific, like a sculptor, and
    ask the sculptor about his work, you will get a problem-solving story not unlike
    that of a scientist. He or she was try to get a certain effect, or something new,
    and thought about other sculptures, the materials, probably the emotion, and started
    working. One of the things Collingwood claims is that a feature of artistic work
    is that you discover the goal explicitly as you go along. You start out with a
    general idea, but discover the goal and form in interaction with the work you
    make, be it a sculpture or a play. \r\n\r\nBut the point is that as you go along--and
    Popper would agree with this part--you are constantly critiquing whether you have
    got something you like, and how it needs to be developed or changed. That is problem
    solving. \r\n\r\nThe framework of problem-solving doesn't answer very many questions
    in itself, but if you don't start there as a framework, you get everything else
    wrong, in my opinion. \r\n\r\nIn the design process, people in type usually talk
    about the 'brief' they have, and how they went through a process of trial and
    error--goal oriented problem-solving to solve it. The [[http://typoberlin.de/video/index.php?node_id=9&lang_id=1&scope=front&ds_target_id=819|recently
    posted video of Christian Schwartz]] talking about his developing Georgio for
    the New York Times goes clearly goes through a whole problem-solving process,
    in discussion with the art director.  "
  created: '2010-01-14 03:36:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But the point is that as you go along--and Popper would agree with this
    part--you are constantly critiquing whether you have got something you like, and
    how it needs to be developed or changed. That is problem solving.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote above, there are lots of kinds of problem solving <em>within</em> the
    creating of something, but that doesn't imply that problem solving is the essence
    or even the purpose of creating something and, hence, creativity equals problem
    solving ability or process. If Popper is right, then I doubt if problem solving
    can be considered the essence of anything except insofar as it is a common essence
    of all activities of goal oriented life. If we want to talk usefully about the
    essential nature of particular activities, then we need to talk about what is
    particularly essential to them, what differentiates them. Certainly, it is unhelpful
    to say that \u2018design is problem solving\u2019, if problem solving is a general
    essence of all activities. \u2018Manicure is problem solving.\u2019 There is a
    sense in which the claim is true, but it isn't a useful sense, especially not
    if everything else is also problem solving.\r\n\r\nThere is also the problem,
    er, issue of utility. If creativity is problem solving to overcome difficulties
    in achieving a goal, then the products of creativity are utile and must favour
    ease and efficiency. But many of the products of creative acts are not utile or
    are strongly characterised by their extra-utile aspects or components (their art,
    rather than their craft). I believe this is because creativity is only sometimes
    and only partly concerned with problem solving, and when it is concerned with
    art it is no less creative than when concerned with craft. You don't need to be
    solving problems in order to be creative.\r\n\r\nTo me, the equation of creativity
    with problem solving ability looks like either a cultural or profressional specialised
    usage. We have a culture that favours problem solving approaches to deliberately
    goal oriented activities, and hence that favours, financially, problem solving
    approaches to things like design, and we have a specialised application of design
    skills in the resulting market that favours a problem solving approach. That's
    fine: there's nothing wrong with either cultural-specific or specialised usages
    of words, so long as one recognises the limits of these uses. As you wrote, Bill,
    this is \u2018what people are usually interested in when they talk about creativity\u2019
    or, at least, what they are interested in in this culture and in the design profession.
    I note that education reformers such as Ken Robinson present their ideas about
    creativity explicitly in the context of this cultural framework and its current
    structural and technological phase, pointing to the value of fostering creativity
    in contributing to economic vitality.\r\n\r\nI'm interested in a more general
    usage, in which creativity is linked in some way to creating, to making things.
    Creating may involve innovative, original ideas that solve problems, but it doesn't
    have to. That's a subclass of creating, resulting in a subclass of created things.
    I'm interested in a notion of creativity that applies in some way to all creative
    acts, including those that are non-innovative, unoriginal and don't solve problems.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.zakariya.net/gallery/gallery/after-yesari.jpg\">Here's an example.</a>
    It isn't innovative, it is traditional. It isn't original, it is after a piece
    by another master calligrapher. It doesn't solve any problem or, at least, it
    doesn't solve any problem that hasn't already been solved hundreds of times, often
    in easier and more efficient ways.\r\n\r\nI think there are two responses to a
    piece like this. One must either say that creativity involves more than innovative,
    original problem solving, or one must say that this is an uncreative piece, that
    it doesn't exhibit creativity, that although it is a created thing it does not
    render to observation evidence of creativity. I think either perspective is valid,
    and if you want to stick with your definition of creativity and deny that this
    piece exhibits creativity, that's fine. What I don't think would be right would
    be to try to pervert the nature of a piece like this to make it fit a definition
    of creativity that it cannot meet.\r\n\r\nUltimately -- and most often primarily
    too! --, what interests me is the thing made, not the ideas or processes behind
    it. This is why I suggested that creativity is a <em>presumed</em> enabling property
    that we only know through observation of created things. Frankly, I can do without
    the concept so long as people keep making things."
  created: '2010-01-14 04:20:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I agree with Popper that talking about essences (as did Aristotle)
    is generally a way to run a discussion into futility, so I won't go there. \r\n\r\nI
    didn't say creativity was problem-solving, I said it was an aspect of problem-solving.
    And the creativity that people are interested in is the outstanding kind--difficult
    and important problems, innovative solutions. But the process is no doubt rooted
    in skills we use routinely--problem-solving skills. The question is what lifts
    those to a higher level. And answers include imagination, focus, discipline, passion
    etc.   \r\n\r\nBut I am starting to suspect we are at cross purposes here because
    we mean different things by 'problem'. You seem to be restricting problems to
    practical problems, and that's not at all what I mean, or the concept that Popper
    had in mind. Technological problems are at their root practical problems, but
    scientific problems are problems of understanding, intellectual problems. A physicist
    wants to understand matter and motion, a sociologist wants to understand society
    etc. \r\n\r\nAnd artistic problems are at their root not practical, but something
    else, having to do with expression and communication, but hard to define exactly.
    \   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 04:20:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And artistic problems are at their root not practical, but something
    else, having to do with expression and communication, but hard to define exactly.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    my experience, artistic problems are almost always problems of form and how to
    get form. Sure such problems emerge in the process of making something that may
    transcend form, but form is the level at which the problems resolve, present themselves
    and need to be dealt with. It is not that I am limiting problems to practical
    problems, but that I am distinguishing problems within the making of a thing from
    the thing itself, and saying that the latter is the evidence that we have of creativity,
    if such a thing exists, whether we are aware or not of the problems involved in
    its making. Sometimes, this distinction is explicit in the purpose of making:
    do I make a thing <em>in order</em> to solve the problems that emerge during its
    making? or do I make a thing for purposes that are independent of that process?
    If the latter, are those purpose not creative?\r\n\r\n[Sorry I was re-editing
    and adding to that last long post while you were responding. I don't think I added
    anything that circumvents what you wrote.]"
  created: '2010-01-14 04:30:24'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: If creativity is an habit on breaking habits, yes, it can be taught. If it's
    something latent on everyone of us, it can be unvieled; Thus, the effort on creative
    education is not a waste of time.
  created: '2010-01-14 14:45:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me, creativity is something innately human that exists to some degree
    in all of us. But, by its nature, is not easily defined or fostered. \r\nTo me,
    creativity is not a product of investigational process but something that comes
    without being consciously provoked from within OR without. It is the whimsical
    ignorance of logic that occurs in spite of all of our attempts to make it logical.
    It is on one hand, the \"Eureka Effect\" that logic can be applied to later as
    proof of concept but not spelled out while arriving at a \"solution\".\r\nCreativity
    can be arrived at without seeking a solution or even having a problem to solve.
    Sometimes people do things or make things in an impromptu manner and the application
    (if there is one) comes later. Art is not created as a solution to a problem,
    it is just something the human does and others give it value. That is not to say
    that problems cannot be solved creatively--it merely means it is not required
    to either solve or not solve a problem. Even if not intended, the problem/solution
    part can be applied after the fact. Someone invents the wheel and later someone
    else uses it to propel a vehicle.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-14 16:53:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree with you that the purpose of a creative act is not simply to
    create, but to get a result, whether that be a painting, poem, scientific theory
    or new computer. But I believe that when people talk about creativity, and study
    it, they refer to the process involved in getting an innovative and excellent
    product, whatever the goal. \r\n\r\nThe qualities of the result is how we judge
    whether something is 'creative', but what the literature on creativity focuses
    on, I believe, is the process to do that, which is a problem-solving process.\r\n\r\nChris,
    I do think that creative effort is purposive, and how one struggles to achieve
    the purpose is a problem-solving process, even though it's not a problem in the
    sense of something that worries or troubles you. It may be pursued purely for
    joy, but still fall under 'problem-solving' in this general sense. \r\n\r\nThe
    reason I think that framework is helpful, is that then you can see what fosters
    creativity.\r\n\r\nBy the way, in the case of Archimedes, when he cried 'Eureka',
    \"I found it\", it was because he was looking for something, the solution to a
    problem.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 18:30:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...in the case of Archimedes, when he cried 'Eureka', \"I found it\", it
    was because he was looking for something, the solution to a problem.\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    but what did Van Gogh solve when he finished the Potato Eaters or Starry Nighty?
    Some art critic or historian may have, after Vincent's death, written a book about
    it but Vincent was just makin' stuff :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-14 19:17:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>The qualities of the result is how we judge whether something is
    'creative', but what the literature on creativity focuses on, I believe, is the
    process to do that, which is a problem-solving process.</em>\r\n\r\nI think this
    is a fair assessment, but my concern is that such literature -- and notions of
    teaching or fostering creativity derived from that literature -- talks about creativity
    in terms of process and problem solving <em>because that's the only way its found
    in which to say definite things about creativity.</em> My belief is that this
    approach to creativity is too narrow, and at least the literature should acknowledge
    that it is limiting its discussion to what is easily describable rather than suggesting,
    as it seems to, that creativity = problem solving. It seems to me at least possible
    that it would be more sensible to say that creativity is <em>applied to</em> problem
    solving, as evidenced by the fact that problems also get solved in non-creative
    ways and by the fact that evidence of creativity can be found in works that do
    not exist to solve problems."
  created: '2010-01-14 19:18:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Damn, that John Hudson just nailed it, right on!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-14 19:22:41'
- author:
    name: cuchosan
  body: "there are some techniques, but they are more for ideation (generation of
    ideas) rather than creativity.\r\n\r\nTo me, creativity is more a way to see things,
    a lifestyle, more than a skill.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-14 21:46:08'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Can creativity be taught?\r\n\r\nNo, I don't think it can be taught.\r\n\r\nTo
    me creativity is the ability to bring out a meaning. And even better, a coherent
    meaning, and even better than that, a coherent and fresh meaning. \r\n\r\nSo,
    when I think of creativity I think of guys like Mozart, Van Gogh, Rodin, and to
    a lesser extent a huge bunch of 'others' including Picasso, Hokusai, Thoreau,
    even Miles Davis. And then, to an even lesser extent, others such as F.L.Wright,
    Glaser, Rand, D. Thomas...\r\n \r\nBut to say that if one combines A with B and
    gets AB (as seen in a lot of today's logos) this is not creativity - it is a formulated
    approach to communication. Problem solving as a means to communicate - a base
    yet meaningful process / skill.\r\n\r\nVery few people in graphic design are creative.
    But, there a heck of a lot of sound problem solvers.\r\n\r\nProblem solving on
    the other hand can be taught.\r\n\r\n    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 00:33:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Personally, I've found the idea that much thinking is problem-solving the
    single most useful idea I learned from Popper. \r\n\r\nFor example, if you are
    trying to understand any field--electromagnetic theory, sculpture, statecraft,
    type design--if you ask: What are the main problems? What are the alternative
    solutions? What are the arguments pro and con the different approaches? What were
    past problems and solutions that led to the current situation? You get the lay
    of the land more quickly than any other way. \r\n\r\nThe idea of problem-solving
    being a key to understanding cognition arose in the 19th century after Darwin,
    with C.S. Peirce in the US and Ostwald Kuelpe in Germany. The idea was that purpose
    and trial and error are very important to the way we operate. \"Error\" means
    you have some standards about what kinds of thing will serve your purpose or not.
    I've avoided using the word \"problem-solving\", but that's what it is: trial
    and error to achieve a goal, with some mental criteria of what counts as good
    and bad solutions. \r\n\r\nRoutine or very innovative thinking both has these.
    The question is whether the very innovative and good kind has something more or
    special, and what it is.\r\n\r\nJohn, Chris, if you can get a better theory of
    creativity without the problem-solving framework, more power to you. I'd be delighted
    to see it.      \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 04:03:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: By the way, as long as we're throwing some book recommendations around, an
    interesting take on the structure of problem-solving is [[http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1560526793/|The
    Universal Traveler]]. Written in the early 70s and has some of the flavor of the
    Whole Earth Catalog or a pasted-together Fluxus newspaper. It and Edward de Bono's
    contemporary [[http://www.amazon.com/Lateral-Thinking-Creativity-Perennial-Library/dp/0060903252/|Lateral
    Thinking]] are fun reads and pragmatically useful in my experience. Perhaps that
    era was also key in marrying the concepts of creativity and problem solving.
  created: '2010-01-15 04:21:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I have no difficulty accepting the role of problem solving in understanding
    cognition, but we're talking about creativity, not about understanding cognition.
    It is the jump that you make from the problem-solving framework that provides
    a means of describing some aspects of some creative acts to creativity itself
    that I find wholly unconvincing.\r\n\r\nSome of the contributors to this discussion
    have spoken of creativity is explicitly judicial ways, i.e. labelling different
    processes or made things as creative or uncreative, or perhaps more or less creative.
    This is a legitimate approach, I think, -- albeit one that I don't share -- and
    one that I think can be consistent with your understanding of creativity as problem
    solving (obviously not all problem solving, though; we seem to agree that problem
    solving can also be uncreative or, as you put it, routine). Of course, \u20185star\u2019
    is being judicial but cutting the cake in a different way, making a distinction
    between creativity and problem solving that I think we both disagree with.\r\n\r\n<em>...if
    you can get a better theory of creativity without the problem-solving framework,
    more power to you. I'd be delighted to see it.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said in my first
    post this discussion, I believe creativity is a presumed enabling property of
    beings that create. As such, I think creativity <em>is a theory</em> -- or, at
    any rate, a construct --, so what you appear to me to be asking for is a theory
    about the theory. I say creativity is a <em>presumed</em> property, because I
    am not convinced that it exists, other than as a mental construct that we use
    to talk about how, and perhaps why, beings that create do so.\r\n\r\nI was watching
    a lecture by an animal behaviourist last year, in which she was talking about
    dog training and the now largely discounted idea of \u2018dominance\u2019. As
    she pointed out, dominance was a construct applied to explain a whole set of behaviours,
    and people who bought into the construct -- who forgot that it was a construct
    and believed it was a real phenomenon -- ceased describing actual animal behaviours,
    the things that animals were actually doing, and instead started talking in terms
    of \u2018dominance behaviour\u2019.\r\n\r\nTo me, creativity looks like a construct
    to explain things that humans do just like dominance was a construct to explain
    things that dogs do. I'd rather look at the things people do and make, and try
    to describe those things individually and understand their particular characteristics
    and effects, rather than lumping them all together under this umbrella of creativity
    that we then need to further reduce to a notion of problem solving just to make
    any sense of."
  created: '2010-01-15 04:54:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...if you can get a better theory of creativity without the problem-solving
    framework, more power to you. I'd be delighted to see it.\"\r\n\r\nIn other words,
    you want me to define it as you do using a definition which is neither exclusive
    of or required to define creativity. Or perhaps you are saying that your failed
    definition is better than any failed definition I might come up with. I would
    rather leave it as an undetermined construct. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-15 13:44:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I'd rather look at the things people do and make, and try to describe those
    things individually and understand their particular characteristics and effects,
    rather than lumping them all together under this umbrella of creativity that we
    then need to further reduce to a notion of problem solving just to make any sense
    of.\r\n\r\nWell, I think if you want to understand and promote creativity, getting
    testable theories of it would be great. And to do that you have to go beyond looking
    only at individual cases, and imaginatively hypothesize what might be common to
    the individual cases. In saying that creativity is a kind of problem-solving I
    don't think I'm 'reducing' creativity. Neither I or those who study creativity
    seriously are saying that there isn't something special about that variety of
    problem-solving, a something special that they devote their lives to trying to
    understand. \r\n\r\nChris, I wasn't defining creativity, so I don't have a successful
    or failed definition, I have no definition. \r\n\r\nI was reporting the theory
    that creativity is a species or kind of problem-solving--which is I believe the
    most widespread view by those who are studying this issue. I don't think theories
    of the creative process have gotten very far, but the idea of them as a kind of
    problem-solving seems to me an interesting start. \r\n\r\nJohn, Chris, are you
    opposed to *any* scientific theories of creativity, or just the idea that creativity
    is a species of problem-solving?\r\n\r\nI don't have my own theory of creativity,
    but I do have an idea about the original question, \"Can creativity be taught?\"\r\n\r\nMost
    people go into a field, whether it be type design or biology, because their individual
    nature and life experience has led them to have particular goals, questions, and
    perspective in that area. Since each person's mental biography is different, this
    is something unique to the individual, and it is also something that fuels passion
    to achieve goals and solve problems in the field, whether it be art or design
    or science or business or whatever. \r\n\r\nA lot of times the pressures of education
    can make a person leave behind those original questions and perspective, coming
    out of his or her life experience, and with it goes the passion. And that passion
    and unique questions and perspective I think are key things that fuel outstanding
    creative work. \r\n\r\nEinstein I think had something like this in mind when he
    said that \"genius is a tender plant.\"\r\n\r\nSo I do think you can teach in
    a way that fosters creativity, or squelches it. What fosters it are projects that
    allow the student to follow his or her interests. This doesn't mean that teachers
    should be uncritical, but they should respect and foster that individuality as
    a source of strength. So to foster creativity: 1. do student-initiated projects.
    2. always respect and encourage the individual point of view, when critiquing. "
  created: '2010-01-15 14:44:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not opposed to  a scientific theory of creativity. I am only opposed
    to any theory (scientific or not) that does not truly encompass all aspects of
    creativity. I don't think creativity is the same as innovation or that it requires
    a practical application to qualify. The Sistine Chapel ceiling is not more creative
    than Starry Night just because it also functions as ceiling paint :-) \r\nBecause
    women A has blue eyes and is considered to be beautiful does not mean that women
    B, who has brown eyes, cannot also be beautiful.\r\nScience, by its nature, excludes
    variables in an attempt to focus data change on the single variable in question.
    The variables in Creativity are perhaps many and perhaps mostly unknown. That
    makes it tough to prove or disprove any theory. Perhaps not impossible but just
    not apparent to my aging eyes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-15 15:05:04'
- author:
    name: ryantoyota
    picture: 118833
  body: "Woah. Didn't have time to read through all of the posts, but I thought [[http://j.mp/cwp450|this
    card from the Creative Whack Pack]] might be an interesting thing to throw into
    the discussion. It talks about a study on what differentiates \"creative\" people
    from \"non-creative\" people, with the only result being that creative people
    think they're creative, whereas non-creatives don't.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 15:38:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I think if you read back through this entire thread you get a pretty
    good view of what I am talking about: various people have defined creativity or
    presented examples of what they consider creativity, and the diversity of views
    really suggests to me that, at best, creativity is a portmanteau term freely used
    to label a wide range of phenomena. This is why I am inclined to view creativity
    as a construct and not as a phenomenon. I made a parallel with the construct of
    dominance in animal behaviourism, and pointed to the problems that arise from
    treating constructs as if they are phenomena: the classic Platonic problem of
    treating ideas as if they were things. I might say that there is no such thing
    as creativity, only a variety of creative acts.\r\n\r\n<em>I was reporting the
    theory that creativity is a species or kind of problem-solving--which is I believe
    the most widespread view by those who are studying this issue.</em>\r\n\r\nSee,
    it seems to me that what such theorists are actually studying creativity <em>as
    applied to problem solving,</em> and then mistakenly identifying creativity with
    problem solving. The falsity of this identification is made obvious simply by
    considering non-creative problem solving. If problem solving can be either creative
    or uncreative, then it is obvious that problem solving is something to which creativity
    is applied or not applied as the case may be. Problem solving, hence, may provide
    a convenient framework within which to explore creative processes, but it can't
    be considered the only framework within which such processes apply. Most seriously,
    the problem solving paradigm, while it explains many things that happen <em>within</em>
    the making of a thing, cannot always explain the making of a thing. A painter
    solves many problems in the making of a painting, but what is the problem that
    is solved by the making of the painting?"
  created: '2010-01-15 16:45:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I am only opposed to any theory (scientific or not) that does not truly
    encompass all aspects of creativity. \r\n\r\nYou're not saying that a scientific
    theory is no good if it fails to explain everything, are you? Because then all
    science would have to be thrown out, because no scientific theory explains everything,
    and I don't think ever will. Understanding a little bit better is better than
    understanding nothing, in my book. If a theoretician would say \"everything I
    don't explain doesn't exist\", that would be block headed. But I don't think the
    literature on this ever is so presumptuous. \r\n\r\nMaybe I'm overacting and misinterpreting,
    but it sounded like to me that you and John are being too cavalier in rejecting
    the life work of people who have tried to understand creativity better. \r\n  \r\n>I
    don't think creativity is the same as innovation or that it requires a practical
    application to qualify. \r\n\r\nChris, I clearly said above that problems don't
    have to be practical. Artistic and scientific problems are not in themselves practical,
    though their solutions may end up being useful.  \r\n\r\nI think maybe a cause
    of mis-communication here is that the term 'problem' as used by Popper and I think
    many others is more general than the common use of the term.  "
  created: '2010-01-15 16:50:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Understanding a little bit better is better than understanding
    nothing, in my book.</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem is in understanding a little -- or
    even a lot -- and thinking that you are understanding everything.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe
    I'm overacting and misinterpreting, but it sounded like to me that you and John
    are being too cavalier in rejecting the life work of people who have tried to
    understand creativity better.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not rejecting that work, I'm pointing
    out a) that it might be proceeding from a mistaken foundation (treating a construct
    as a phenomenon) and b) that it is limiting its focus to a subclass of the application
    of creative processes and treating that subclass as paradigmatic; I am questioning
    whether that subclass is actually paradigmatic of all creative acts."
  created: '2010-01-15 16:51:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">what is the problem that is solved by the making of the painting?\r\n\r\nThe
    problem depends on the painting. Extended efforts, as opposed to a reflex or unconscious
    habit, always have some kind of goal. \r\n\r\nSome paintings I sure have just
    been to make money, and the painter was thinking: what kind of picture would fetch
    a good price? Others may have had a goal like, \"How can I share with others the
    uplifting vision of this sunset I'm looking at?\"  Or \"How can I capture the
    charm and cruelty I see in the face of the person I'm doing a portrait of?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    point is, as the painter works he or she does have an idea of what they want,
    and what is better and worse. I'm not saying that it's always a clear idea. As
    Collingwood argued, in artistic creation the goal often evolves in the process.
    The painter might say: there was something in that scene that spoke to me, and
    I wanted to capture it.\" But that is still a goal, and the trial and error--sketching,
    or repainting--is a problem solving process, I think.\r\n\r\nPart of the problem
    here in communicating is that 'creativity' is a very vague term, but like terms
    that arise naturally, I think do it describes real things, even if it is not a
    very precise concept. Looking at Nancy Nersessian's book, she refers to an author
    who distinguishes between 'personal creativity' and 'historical creativity'. The
    first creates something new for that individual person, the second creates something
    new in the context of history. \r\n\r\nI think a lot of the fascination with this
    issue is the question of how these great innovations are created, and whether
    the process has something distinctive in it. Nancy's view is that the ordinary,
    routine creativity is on a continuum with the outstanding, historical kind. That
    is, some of the same problem-solving processes are involved, though there is also
    most than that involved.     \r\n\r\nWhat is the aspect of creativity that you
    think the problem-solving approach excludes?"
  created: '2010-01-15 17:47:25'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill \u2014 Is there any distinction between <em>goal-striving</em> and <em>problem-solving</em>?
    You seem to be equating them, and I just want to make sure that this perception
    is accurate."
  created: '2010-01-15 18:40:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Chris said that Vincent was just makin' stuff, but I think reading [[http://www.webexhibits.org/vangogh/|Van
    Gogh's letters]] may lend support to Bill's idea about art as striving towards
    goals. In fact it seems to me that one can't talk about \"process\" without talking
    about \"goals.\" (My dictionary defines process as \"a series of actions or steps
    taken in order to achieve a particular end.\") So we need to distinguish reaching
    towards goals from solving problems if we still want to have something to say
    about the creative process outside of problem solving.\r\n\r\nIt might help to
    have some more examples so that we are clear on what counts as a \"problem\" for
    each of us. Is \"what can I make with this lump of clay that appeals to my sense
    of beauty?\" a problem? "
  created: '2010-01-15 18:44:07'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "In short - to be creative is to have the natural ability to interpret.\r\n\r\nLeave
    your academics aside for the moment and go back to primitive peoples who depicted
    their environs on the cave walls. Or, go to the natives peoples in the Americas
    who depicted subject matters on their animal skin garments, in bead work, etc..
    \r\n\r\nThis people had the natural ability to interpret.\r\n\r\nJust as mentioned:
    \"Einstein I think had something like this in mind when he said that \"genius
    is a tender plant.\"  \r\nYes, Einstein was correct, Genius is a natural state
    - part of nature - and needs nurturing. Those wonderful souls that I mentioned
    earlier all had the natural ability - in various degrees - to interpret to give
    meaning. \r\n\r\nThe next question is - what is a master piece. What differentiates
    a F.L.Wright from a Van Gogh. Or, within the same discipline, what differentiates
    a Matisse from a Van Gogh - in terms of creative ability to be able to impart
    a coherent meaning. Bet your life, there are distinct levels of natural ability
    - with genius being the wonderful plant on the planet.\r\n\r\nI think a good study
    would be to have a number of test subjects interpret, in a meaningful way, the
    same subject matter. From there one can asses creative ability. And those test
    subject can come from any walk of life.\r\n\r\nFor instance, you and me and another
    eight test subjects sat to interpret a starry sky...\r\n\r\nOr, perhaps give our
    interpretation of a great leader. Or, perhaps give our interpretation for a new
    logo. No, sorry, creativity cannot be taught. It is as natural as the day is long.\r\n\r\nA
    new reality TV show ...coming soon. Go out and at random pick ten people...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-15 18:50:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, Craig, the way I think about it is that goal striving is a pre-requisite
    to problem solving. \r\n\r\nIf you can achieve your goal immediately, with no
    trial and error and no reflection, then I wouldn't call it problem-solving. But
    if you have some obstacles to overcome, or an ideal you don't immediately seem
    to reach, then it's problem-solving. Problem-solving involves some kind of guided
    imagination and effort. You are imagining and doing things that are not automatically
    satisfactory; you have some idea whether they are closer to or farther from the
    goal.  \r\n\r\nThanks Craig for bringing in your knowledge of history of art.
    I don't know this history, but my impression is, as you say, that when you get
    into the details of what an artist was up to, in his or her own words, it looks
    a lot like creative effort in science--imaginative problem-solving.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way the \"Eureka!\" example that Chris brought up shows the common misunderstanding
    of the thought process involved in discovery. He didn't just get in the bathtub
    and accidentally come up with a solution. He had made more progress in understanding
    how to calculate volumes than anybody in history, and when he was given the problem
    of finding the density of the crown in relation to pure gold, he exercised his
    imagination guided by his past knowledge. He was looking everywhere, and the bathtub
    added one key element to his problem-situation that gave him the idea. [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archimedes#The_Golden_Crown|Here
    is a reconstruction of the story]], as explained by Galileo, who wasn't too shabby
    a creative thinker either. "
  created: '2010-01-15 19:06:39'
- author:
    name: funkycoldsabrina
    picture: 117324
  body: People can certainly enhance their ability to be creative by learning ways
    to focus their energies. But uncreative people can only get so creative.
  created: '2010-01-15 19:47:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Mr. Hudson - The nature of existence is THE problem and anyone who genuinely
    cares about what they do ponders what they're doing through that lens. Isn't that
    what you're about? You responded elegantly and happily to this thread.\r\n\r\nFine
    artists are no different. Those pieces you're experiencing around you might not
    seem like a problem/solution scenario to you but for the artist it was an attempt
    at an answer. Those who are realistic know there isn't a solution, just hope.
    But the problem remains\u2026\r\n\r\nAs a poet, I can tell you that while initial
    writing is unconscious, the problem is distillation. It must be the same when
    your drawing glyphs on a pad and then want to make it into a font.\r\n\r\nDo you
    really think Van Gogh painted without thinking? Or even Jackson Pollock? Do you
    think the person who did the Arabic calligraphy you posted didn't think about
    how to honor the piece he was recreating? Is that a problem? It was until he solved
    it. His problem was probably how to get into the spiritual space he imagined necessary.\r\n\r\nIs
    the process a problem? No, it's a blessing. Results are feeble by comparison,
    as a matter of fact, they're the problem. The process is the solution.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-16 06:55:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > If you can achieve your goal immediately, with no trial and error
    and no reflection, then I wouldn't call it problem-solving. </cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    was said of Mozart that he could compose effortlessly in his head and that writing
    down the notes was merely a task. There is an oft-repeated anecdote that his Trio
    in E flat, K.498 \u2014 known as the \u201CKegelstatt\u201D trio \u2014 was composed
    one afternoon while playing skittles (bowling) with friends.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that
    effortlessness wasn\u2019t true of every composition, and I can\u2019t say that
    there wasn\u2019t reflection (depending upon how specificly you want to define
    this). \r\n\r\nBut, are you saying that without trial and error, and without reflection,
    there is no problem-solving, and thus no creativity? That seems like an awfully
    Romantic notion."
  created: '2010-01-16 13:13:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is the process a problem? No, it's a blessing.\r\n\r\nAs I said, by 'problem'
    in this context is not meant a bad thing. Popper thought that since \"all life
    is problem-solving\" being able to choose your problems, such as doing a painting
    or a typeface or a poem or a scientific question, is a great blessing. \r\n\r\n>But,
    are you saying that without trial and error, and without reflection, there is
    no problem-solving, and thus no creativity? That seems like an awfully Romantic
    notion.\r\n\r\nMuch of problem-solving is unconscious, but it does take time.
    Mozart I would be was thinking about that trio, even before it was written down.
    I don't know if it's romantic or not, but I think that's what happens: there's
    a goal, there's time working on it, there's a solution. If there's no need for
    a mental search process I wouldn't call it creative problem-solving. If there's
    a goal and you have a read-made solution, I guess it's problem solving in some
    sense, but not creative.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 13:30:51'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "The Romantic notion is that Art requires Struggle, that obstacles must be
    overcome, that one must suffer for one\u2019s creativity. That was my reference.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    > there's a goal, there's time working on it, there's a solution.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo,
    reflection is prerequisite, but not necessarily trial-and-error?\r\n\r\nYes, it\u2019s
    safe to assume Mozart thought about the Kegelstatt trio. It came to him. He imagined
    it. He wrote it down. Problem solved.\r\n\r\nI need to go have breakfast now.
    I\u2019m thinking about it. I imagine what I\u2019d like to have. When I\u2019m
    done with this post, I\u2019ll go eat. Problem solved.\r\n\r\nYou said creativity
    is an aspect of problem-solving. What distinguishes the creative problem-solving
    from the routine problem-solving?\r\n\r\nI have to say, I\u2019m not sure if creativity
    is an aspect of problem-solving <em>per se</em> or if, as John suggests, problem-solving
    is an aspect of creativity. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 14:02:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Re: Fostering \"creativity\"\r\n\r\nAs a child (starting at 8yrs) I attended
    a Talmud Torah (Bible Studies, Orthodox, Jewish) and had a teacher who did something
    no other teacher I have ever had has done before or since.\r\nHe gave praise and
    extra credit for asking good questions. \"Good\" meaning probing, non-obvious,
    explorative. He really made a big deal out of it and said that asking good questions
    was the key to knowledge.\r\n(I would add, also, the courage to accept the answers
    when the facts bear them out is key, as well. The human capacity for self-deception
    is astounding.)\r\n\r\nWherever I see creative achievement, I see a creator who
    has, at the very least, asked the right and relevant questions.\r\nMr. Jacobowitz
    was on to something. And whenever I've been called on to teach, I've tried to
    foster as much question-asking as possible. It can be sloppy, it can be disruptive,
    but it's better overall.\r\n\r\nJust a personal take on the topic...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-16 15:08:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't want to get bogged down in definitions, as 'creativity' and 'problem-solving'
    are both vague enough terms to argue endlessly without getting anywhere. \r\n\r\nWe
    make our ideas clear, as C.S. Peirce said in a great essay, when we relate them
    to something concrete, to action. In this case what is clear is the problem that
    thinkers have been working on for over a century now: what is involved in the
    creation of innovative and excellent new work, whether in be in the sciences or
    arts? And we have paradigmatic examples, like Mozart's and Beethoven's musical
    works, Leonardo and Michaelangelo's paintings, Newton and Einstein's scientific
    theories, or mathematical breakthroughs of Euler and Gauss.  \r\n\r\nThe question
    is, What mental process is responsible for these great works? As I said, much
    of the work on this issue is within the framework of problem-solving.  Students
    of Oswald K\xFClpe, whom I mentioned earlier, created both the Gestalt and W\xFCrzburg
    schools of psychology. Most of the work post-WW II was directly indebted to the
    W\xFCrzburgers, such as Karl B\xFChler and Otto Selz. Popper studied under B\xFChler,
    and Herbert Simon, Nobel Prize winning Economist who was also a leader in early
    computer simulation of intelligence, acknowledged his debt to Selz. (Selz's own
    career was cut short by the Nazis, who murdered him at Auschwitz.)\r\n\r\nThe
    computer simulation work is definitely limited, and the Gestalt school--also a
    problem-solving approach--did some things that still haven't been full incorporated
    into more modern psychology.\r\n\r\nOne of the ideas of both the Gestalt and W\xFCrzburg
    schools is, I think, that there is a continuum between the most ordinary and routine
    problem solving, and great creative works. I suspect they are right that that
    there is a difference of degree, not kind, between the ordinary and great works.
    So there is no \"secret ingredient\" that genius's have, though they may have
    stronger imagination, focus, persistence and what you might call synthetic ability.
    \r\n\r\nOn the question of struggle, I don't think that that is a necessary part
    of it, though I do think time is involved. To take a simple example, Popper pointed
    to the optical illusion of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Necker_Cube|the Necker
    Cube]] as an illustration of the idea that the brain is constantly hypothesizing
    in an effort to solve problems. \r\n\r\nWhen we stare at the Necker cube it will
    keep reversing as to which corner is closer to us. Popper takes this as showing
    that the brain is trying to solve the problem \"what is this?\" and because it
    lacks information, the visual system keeps trying one hypothesis and then another.
    \r\n\r\nThis is on the level of perception, and so much more so on the level of
    cognition, and the processes behind writing a symphony or painting a picture.
    \r\n\r\nKent, I don't think that there's necessarily an emotional struggle. For
    Mozart, as you say, there wasn't, and with Beethoven there was. And Bertrand Russell
    was like Mozart when it came to writing: he would work it out in his head, and
    then it would just flow out of his pen, with little or no revision. \r\n\r\nBut
    the theory, as I hope you see from the example of the Necker cube, is that problem-solving
    is so fundamental a human process that greater or lesser emotional struggle is
    just one thing you might study, not an essential feature. And a lot of the problem-solving
    work is unconscious. \r\n\r\nWhat I would be interested in is what John or Chris
    thinks the problem-solving framework leaves out of the creative process. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not at all stuck to this model as being the whole story, but I do know that it
    has proven very fruitful.  "
  created: '2010-01-16 18:27:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My daughter is  also a composer, among other things like drawing, writing,
    and geophysics. She composes on paper from her head without being at the piano.
    She edits some later but the trust of the work is done in her room sitting on
    her bed with paper and pencil. She also does full orchestration that way having
    written symphonies, concerti, and string quartets.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-01-16 18:36:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '@Chris I think we''d better ask her about creativity :) '
  created: '2010-01-16 18:44:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: She would just say she was just doing her work :-)
  created: '2010-01-16 19:02:11'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Let's all get busy, the antidote to punditry.
  created: '2010-01-16 20:30:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"<em>To raise new questions, new possibilities, to regard old questions
    from a new angle, requires</em> creative <em>imagination and marks real advances
    in science</em>.\"\r\n\r\n\u2014 Albert Einstein"
  created: '2010-01-19 06:10:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "<cite>\"To breakthrough, you need to combine microscopic observation with
    the ability to extrapolate.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n- Paul B. Cutler"
  created: '2010-01-19 07:08:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Christopher, Einstein''s quote is right on target as far as science goes,
    at least in [[http://books.google.com/books?id=hMc9AAAAIAAJ&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_navlinks_s#v=onepage&q=&f=false|my
    studies in history of science]]. The most creative people had the same qualities
    as other scientists, but were distinguished by their asking new questions, or
    to put it another way, by a new view of the problem situation. This most of all
    characterizes Einstein himself. '
  created: '2010-01-19 14:16:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, several times now, especially in your more recent posts, you have made
    mention of innovation and novelty, associating or even identifying creativity
    with innovative thinking. I have a problem with this association -- let alone
    identification -- because, again, I think the primary evidence of creativity is
    created things, and it is possible both to create things without innovative thinking
    and also to think innovatively without creating things. The authors to whom you
    have referred seem to me to be talking about innovative thinking in the context
    of problem solving, and I'm sure that they have interesting things to say on that
    topic. But simply applying the label creativity to this is begging the question
    if we're talking about what constitutes creativity. If we're going to get anywhere
    with creativity, then it needs to take into account how and why people create
    things, not just the process by which they have innovative thoughts about things.\r\n\r\nYou
    have made reference to 'creativity' in the context of scientific thought, but
    again what you seem to actually be talking about is particular kinds of innovative
    thinking and how these proceed. I'm going to suggest that the use of the term
    \u2018creative\u2019 in this context is metaphorical, i.e. that these processes
    of innovative thinking in the sciences are <em>akin</em> to the processes of creation.
    The reason why I'm loathe even to call such thinking creative, if not speaking
    metaphorically, is that the goal of science is discovery, not creation (of course,
    things -- both good and ill -- are created as a result of scientific discovery,
    but it is the discovery that is the business of science). The distinction between
    discovery and creation was made very well in an essay about Darwin -- written
    by the Harvard historian of science Steve Shapin -- in the recent issue of the
    <em>London Review of Books</em>: \u2018Whatever might be meant by the \u201Cessence\u201D
    of evolution by natural selection is something you could say was discovered; the
    text called the <em>Origin</em> [<em>of Species</em>] was composed, in exactly
    the same way that <em>Figaro</em> was composed, artfully put together, invented.\u2019
    That is to say, Darwin's creative work was not his innovative thinking about evolution,
    but the writing of his books that explicated that thinking, reported his findings
    and persuaded of his conclusions. This work is creative because something is being
    made, not because it is innovative thinking, and the problems to be solved within
    the making of this thing are the typical problems of creative work, i.e. problems
    of form, of composition. If creativity is associated with problem solving, then
    it seems to me that it is with solving that kind of problem, i.e. problems of
    creation. We know that problems of creation are problems of form, because \u05D1\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D1\u05E8\u05D0 \u05D0\u05DC\u05D4\u05D9\u05DD \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E9\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05D0\u05E8\u05E5 \u05D5\u05D4\u05D0\u05E8\u05E5 \u05D4\u05D9\u05EA\u05D4
    \u05EA\u05D4\u05D5 :)\r\n\r\n\r\nPS. Shapin's essay in the LRB is well worth reading
    for its own sake, independent of this discussion."
  created: '2010-01-19 19:23:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The phrase Einstein uses is \u2018creative imagination\u2019, which seems
    to me quite a precise notion and not as general or vague as \u2018creativity\u2019.
    Creative imagination suggests a particular kind of imagination, one that is capable
    of \u2018creating\u2019 new ideas or new ways of looking at something. I still
    think this is a metaphorical use of a notion of creation, since I don't really
    believe that there are such things as thoughts. I don't think one creates a thought
    in the same sense that one creates something tangible. When one is making something
    tangible, there is a clear distinction between the action of making and the thing
    made, between the verb (carving, writing, composing) and the object (sculpture,
    novel, symphony). I think it is in the nature of thinking, though, that there
    is no such distinction, and I'm inclined to think that thinking is all verb all
    the time. Thoughts only exist as mental concepts, i.e. as more thinking."
  created: '2010-01-19 19:51:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'So would you say a writer creates a novel but a scientist does not create
    a hypothesis? '
  created: '2010-01-19 20:17:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, you seem to be denying the term 'creativity' to the invention of a
    scientific theory, or discovery of the Pythagorean theorem. I don't think this
    corresponds to ordinary usage. \r\n\r\n\"Creativity\" is indeed a vague concept,
    and I don't want to get into the tail-chasing process of trying to define it.
    That's why I referred to a clear intellectual problem that a lot of people have
    worked on: what process is involved in innovative works in science and art.  \r\n\r\nOn
    your view that \"I don't really believe that there are such things as thoughts.\"\r\n\r\nWell
    some of us do indeed have thoughts, and it's a pity you don't :) \r\n\r\nSeriously,
    I think you are clinging to the English view of Locke and Hume that all knowledge
    is derived from sensation, which is not, I think viable in the light of many insights
    of modern psychology.\r\n\r\nAgain there is a history of the status of 'Thoughts'.
    The Wurtzburg school started with Kulpe's idea of 'imageless thoughts', about
    which there was much debate, but it started the much fruitful research on thinking
    and problem-solving.  \r\n\r\nPopper talked about 'thoughts' being 'world three'
    objects, defining 'world one' as physical and 'world two' as mental. World three
    objects exist independently of any particular individual, and can exist in books
    and computer programs. It is something like Plato's 'ideas', but they can be false
    as well. And they have logical consequences that people can discover, etc. \r\n\r\nI
    know that some in the intellectual property field have found this a useful concept.\r\n\r\nLook
    out because soon your position will imply that typefaces don't exist!  \r\n\r\nBut
    really, I have identified one aspect at least of creativity, and said that I find
    it interesting and having to do with problem-solving. \r\n\r\nI have asked you
    what aspect of creativity is not problem-solving, and you haven't given an answer.
    \r\n\r\nYou have referred to the question of what motivates creativity, and that's
    an interesting question, but I don't think is makes any less valid the question
    of what process is involved in creation of a new object of art, scientific theory,
    or business plan. "
  created: '2010-01-19 21:00:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yesterday my typeface fell in the woods and nobody heard it, does that mean
    my type was not cast? :-)
  created: '2010-01-19 21:36:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I should have been more careful above in reporting on Popper's 'Three Worlds'.
    Popper would have both subjective thoughts, which are in World Two, and objective
    products of thought, which are in World Three. \r\n\r\nHe says that World Three
    consists of the world of \"products of the human mind, such as languages; tales
    and stories and religious myths; scientific conjectures or theories, and mathematical
    constructions; songs and symphonies; paintings and sculptures. But also aeroplanes
    and airports and other feats of engineering.\"\r\n\r\nPopper distinguishes between
    thoughts, which are subjective, and thought contents, which are part of world
    three. \r\n\r\nSo for example, Frutiger's idea that a modulated circle is 'reads'
    as more of a letter than a perfect circle was a thought Frutiger had subjectively
    at one point. It became something more objective when he made the \"O\" for Avenir
    as a physical object, but also then a pattern, a World Three object that could
    also be rendered as Bezier curves. \r\n\r\nI don't know quite what to make of
    Popper's three worlds metaphysics, but I find it intriguing.  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-01-20 04:26:28'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Creativity is not taught. \r\n\r\nIt ensues. "
  created: '2010-01-20 04:31:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>World three objects exist independently of any particular individual,
    and can exist in books and computer programs. It is something like Plato's 'ideas',
    but they can be false as well. And they have logical consequences that people
    can discover, etc.</em>\r\nSounds like Dawson's memes. True, false, doesn't matter.
    But they do have a \"life\" of their own and they replicate. Our brains are their
    \"primordial soup\"."
  created: '2010-01-20 05:12:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, thanks for the further explication of Popper's thoughts about thoughts.
    I don't at all like his terminology of subjective and objective thoughts, so will
    stick with World Two and World Three thoughts, leaving aside the implied metaphysics.
    I have no difficulty with World Three thoughts, because World Three is the world
    of created things, even if the creation in question is simply the putting something
    into some linguistic form: the point is that a thing is being made, composed,
    shaped, <em>given form.</em> This is creation, and it makes sense to say that
    in World Three we create thoughts in the sense of giving form to discreet ideas
    expressed in some medium.\r\n\r\nWhat I don't believe exist are thoughts in World
    Two. I don't believe that the process of thinking involves production of mental
    things called thoughts. I challenge you to find anything amid all the electro-chemical
    activity of the brain that corresponds as a product, as a made thing, to a thought
    as expressed in World Three. We don't say, even in the laziest, most metaphorical
    usage, \u2018I have created a thought\u2019. We do not make thoughts, and this
    is why I think \u2018creative thinking\u2019 is a metaphorical use of the word
    creative. Even the common phrase \u2018I've had a thought\u2019, I take simply
    to mean \u2018I have been thinking\u2019. In grammatical terms, I consider thinking
    an intransitive verb.\r\n\r\nYou and I both have a commitment to ordinary usage,
    but we approach it in different ways. I love metaphor and wonder -- sometimes
    alarmed and sometimes delighted -- at just how much human communication relies
    on it: barely an utterance comes out of our mouths without some metaphorical content.
    But there are times when it is a useful and even important exercise to get behind
    the metaphors and consider what a word might mean or refer to if applied strictly
    (which is not to say restrictively; in the case of creativity, I am looking for
    a meaning that encompasses rather more than most people on this thread seem to
    want to admit). I think this exercise is important when, as in this case, there
    is on the one hand a great diversity in usage of a term, including metaphorical
    and (pre)judicial usage, and on the other hand identification of the term by some
    people with phenomena to which it might only apply metaphorically.\r\n\r\nSo when
    I start to think about \u2018creativity\u2019, I'm drawn back to a basic association
    with creating, of making things, because that is what the word most directly implies.
    All other meanings derive from that meaning.\r\n___\r\n\r\n\r\nHaving run around
    this mulberry bush with you several times over the past week, this evening I paused
    long enough to consult the OED (1st ed.)...\r\n\r\nCreative: adj. 1. Having the
    quality of creating, given to creating; of or pertaining to creation; originative.\r\n\r\nI'm
    bemused to find no entry for creativity. Does anyone have a 2nd edition handy?"
  created: '2010-01-20 05:33:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>But really, I have identified one aspect at least of creativity, and
    said that I find it interesting and having to do with problem-solving.</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    error is human.\r\n\r\n<em>I have asked you what aspect of creativity is not problem-solving,
    and you haven't given an answer.</em>\r\n\r\nYet another one of William's faulty
    premises. Creativity and 'problem-solving', are two disparate faculties / abilities.
    One can <em>apply (or not)</em> their creativity infinite ways - one such way
    is to apply creativity <em>upon</em> problem-solving. \r\nCreativity is a power
    of the mind - just as Reason is another power of the mind. They are not of each
    other.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 05:34:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Does anyone have a 2nd edition handy?</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5880.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic2_5351.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-20 06:03:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Craig!\r\n\r\nWhitehead: \u2018Unlimited possibility and abstract
    creativity can procure nothing.\u2019\r\n\r\nI might have found my new sig quote."
  created: '2010-01-20 06:11:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wrote: <em>In grammatical terms, I consider thinking an intransitive verb.</em>\r\n\r\nOkay,
    not strictly true. There are prepositional phrases in which the verb to think
    can take an object, e.g. \u2018I think <em>about</em> typography\u2019 and result
    in a true statement. What I don't believe is that the sentence \u2018I think thoughts\u2019
    is true as a description of how the mind works, especially not in the sense that
    sentences like \u2018I write novels\u2019, \u2018I carve sculptures\u2019, \u2018I
    design typefaces\u2019 etc. may be true as descriptions of creative acts."
  created: '2010-01-20 19:03:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I have a thought: maybe John wants to distort language to fit his theory
    :) '
  created: '2010-01-20 19:10:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm not distorting language. There are plenty of verbs that are typically
    intransitive but that may apply to prepositional phrases. Consider, for example,
    the verb \u2018to sleep\u2019: we don't sleep sleeps, we just sleep, although
    we can sleep <em>on</em> a bed. I'm suggesting that if we want to make true statements
    about how the mind works, rather than statements about what we do with ideas in
    \u2018World Three\u2019, then we should treat \u2018to think\u2019 as such a verb.
    We don't think thoughts, we just think. Thoughts are something we create as a
    result of thinking -- just as a sonata or a poem is something we create as a result
    of thinking -- , not a kind of mental thing within the process of thinking.\r\n\r\n____\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, on the subject of actually making things, this new series on BBC Radio
    4 is fascinating: <a href=\"http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00pgxn3\">A history
    of the world in 100 objects</a>. I was particularly struck by the observation
    in the second programme, on the earliest Olduvai hand tools, that as soon as humans
    started to make things they began making them more complicated, and then more
    beautiful, than they need to be."
  created: '2010-01-20 19:19:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The making of tools "CAN" be a creative act but it is not necessarily so.
    This is the same as "Problem solving" or "blue eyes" they may be present in the
    context of creativity but are not required. What then is "required" for all types
    of creativity? So far, I can't think of anything but will keep "thinking" in my
    feeble non-creative way ;-)
  created: '2010-01-20 19:30:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oxford Concise Dictionary\r\n\r\nThought, n. \r\n\r\n3. A sober reflection
    or consideration (gave it much thought).\r\n\r\n4. An idea or piece of reasoning
    produced by thinking (many good thoughts came out of the discussion).\r\n\r\n6.
    (usu. in pl.) what one is thinking; one's opinion (have you any thoughts on this).\r\n\r\n7.
    The subject of one's thinking (my one thought was to get away).\r\n\r\n+++++\r\n\r\nWe
    usually speak of \"having thoughts\" (as in my joke above), or \"having ideas\"
    rather than \"thinking thoughts\", but that doesn't make them any less real. Particularly
    in so far as \"ideas\" and \"thoughts\" are a synonym, thoughts are a part of
    the subject of inquiry in researching creativity: \"How does a creative person
    come up with his or her ideas?\" \r\n\r\nBut I don't know where this is going
    any more, because I don't understand your objection to the problem-solving model.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 19:49:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't know about John but my objection to the problem solving model is that
    it is not a requirement for creativity. It can be either present or absent so
    delving into something which is not a distinguishing factor does not bear much
    fruit. It is just the old case of measuring the easily measurable even if it not
    necessarily part of the issue.
  created: '2010-01-20 20:08:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: This reminds me of the old joke where a man has lost his car keys and is down
    on his hands and knees under the street light looking for them. A second man comes
    by and asks him why he keeps looking there under the street light. The first man
    answers, "Because there is no light back there next to my car."
  created: '2010-01-20 20:13:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It can be either present or absent\r\n\r\nI don't know of a major creative
    act where you can say problem-solving was absent. A lot of problem-solving is
    unconscious work by the brain, but it can be, and has been studied.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think understanding problem-solving is at all easy, but to take your metaphor,
    where should researchers be looking, instead of problem solving? "
  created: '2010-01-20 21:03:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: outside of the box
  created: '2010-01-20 21:26:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't claim to know the answer, Bill. There may not even be an answer for
    all I know. Even looking at the low hanging fruit is "under the streetlight and
    not near the car."
  created: '2010-01-20 21:30:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"Outside of the box\" is a phrase that comes from [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thinking_outside_the_box|a
    famous example of problem-solving]].\r\n\r\nAll it means is to be unconventional
    or innovative in coming up with solutions. It doesn't go outside the framework
    of problem-solving, but is squarely within it.\r\n\r\nYou have to think a little
    more outside the box on this one :) \r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2010-01-20 21:39:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\".. It doesn't go outside the framework of problem-solving, but is squarely
    within it.\"\r\n\r\nThat is why you have to think OUTSIDE the box, or should I
    say triangle because it is more rigid ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-20 23:18:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I don't think the problem-solving approach is rigid at all, but very
    rich and complex, and only begun. \r\n\r\nIf you think it's rigid because it leaves
    something out, then YOU tell me what is left out of the problem-solving approach.
    I'm glad to hear it."
  created: '2010-01-21 00:54:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I don't know of a major creative act where you can say problem-solving
    was absent. </cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that this is because you have defined
    problem-solving so broadly (\u201CAll life is problem solving\u201D) as to make
    it impossible to exclude. Can\u2019t really argue with that."
  created: '2010-01-21 00:56:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill, the rigid aspect is not about problem solving, it is about not looking
    anywhere OUTSIDE of problem solving.\r\n\r\n\"then YOU tell me what is left out
    of the problem-solving approach.\"\r\n\r\nCreativity"
  created: '2010-01-21 01:01:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, my objection to the problem solving model, stated several times is
    that a) it is possible to solve problems without being creative and b) it is possible
    to be creative without solving problems. Ergo, while creativity is something that
    can be applied to problem solving the two things are not identical, and treating
    problem solving as a paradigm of creativity, while providing insights into creativity
    as applied to problem solving, is potentially misleading. Now, as we've also discussed,
    I think the Popperian idea of problem solving is over-generalised, so I'm quite
    sure that any examples I put forward will simply be subsumed by you into problem-solving;
    if \u2018all life\u2019 is problem-solving, this is inevitable. I don't believe
    that all life is problem-solving, and I do believe that some acts, including some
    creative acts or aspects of creative acts, are gratuitous.\r\n\r\nYou joked above
    that I might be distorting language to fit a theory, but it seems to me that you
    are the one who introduced a theory into this discussion and then avoided engaging
    with the most basic definition of creativity, which has to do with creating things.
    We agree, I gather, that creating things involves various kinds of problem-solving,
    but where we disagree is that this problem-solving component of creative acts
    constitutes the realm of creativity.\r\n___\r\n\r\nThe \u2018thought\u2019 discussion
    is tangential, and I think we're both at or near the point of forgetting what
    it is tangential to. I brought it up to point out that the term creative is applied
    metaphorically to thinking, i.e. as a derived usage, and not as it is applied
    to other actions involving the making of things. Again, bearing in mind that all
    usages of \u2018creative\u2019 derive from this basic usage that has to do with
    making things. If one is starting from a derived usage and trying to suggest that
    this provides a paradigm, I think one is on a shaky foundation.\r\n\r\nThe definitions
    of \u2018thought\u2019 that you cite are all concerned with the products or subjects
    of thinking, not with the process of thinking. As I wrote above, I have no difficulty
    with thoughts as created things in Popper's World Three, where I think they take
    there place along other created things to which they are directly comparable.
    My objection is to the notion that thoughts are something like units of thinking,
    i.e. part of the process of thinking. It is because of this that I can only accept
    a phrase like \u2018creative thinking\u2019 as a metaphorical, derived usage,
    however common such a usage has become."
  created: '2010-01-21 01:11:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>What then is \"required\" for all types of creativity?</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    something is created.\r\n\r\n<em>The making of tools \"CAN\" be a creative act
    but it is not necessarily so.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm. I think we disagree on this point.
    Any act that involves creating something is, by definition, a creative act. It
    is this non-judicial usage that I think is closest to a kind of basic meaning
    of the word. As soon as we start judicially distinguishing creative and uncreative
    acts of creating things, we run into problems and start multiplying variant usages
    to try to accommodate the range of things that we each, using different criteria,
    judge creative.\r\n\r\nI think the 2nd edition OED definition of creativity as
    provided by Craig is pretty close to ideal. The only variance I would make is
    to point out that the power or ability to create is presumed from the evidence
    of created things."
  created: '2010-01-21 01:23:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, I don't think this is empty, though it is very broad. What is positive
    content in it is the idea of goals, obstacles to achieving them, and a search
    for a way to achieve the goal, often by more than one trial. This is a guiding
    idea for further research, in that it gives you a set of questions to ask.  \r\n\r\nBefore
    the problem-solving approach, I think the idea was that there is simply some inexplicable
    genius that is responsible for the creation of great works of art, or great ideas
    like the Pythagorean theorem. The idea of goal and search process has led to questions
    like: How to we create new solutions? What role do the boundaries of the problem
    have to do with it. How do we change the past patterns of thinking to come up
    with the new solution? How are the old and new ideas related?\r\n\r\nI do know
    that in every case of creating new scientific theories that I looked at, the scientist
    himself had a very specific view of the problem he was trying to solve. \r\n\r\nThe
    same thing is true in the book by Frutiger that I have just read. For example,
    in creating Avenir, Frutiger said that he had surveyed the field of type, and
    felt what was missing was a geometric style of sans that is readable in text.
    So that was his problem: how do you make the geometric style more readable. And
    he came up with a general idea, or rather several ideas, and then he says did
    a huge amount of work in trying to carry it out, and in what he feels is his masterwork
    of in drafting. So both in the original ideas--for example about how the O should
    be modulated--and carrying it out were creative--creative solutions to a problem
    that was well defined in his mind. \r\n\r\nChris, saying \"creative\" is circular
    argument. \r\n\r\nShow me how in the story of Frutiger and Avenir the problem-solving
    framework is *limiting* my ability to understand Frutiger's creativity. And don't
    tell me \"creativity\". You have to give me something more, if you are going to
    explain creativity at all, give some new insight into creativity of Frutiger.
    \r\n\r\nAnd don't tell me I haven't fully explained Frutiger's creativity. I know
    that: I've only scratched the surface. But at least looking at the problem and
    solution, with drawings you have some insight. Just saying \"creativity\" tells
    us nothing new. The problem as conceived of by Frutiger, and his solutions in
    relation to it are at least informative.\r\n\r\nBy the way, have you and John
    actually read any of this literature? \r\n\r\nFor example, the idea of the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aha_experience|Aha
    experience]], of sudden insight--a term coined by Karl Buehler, Popper's teacher?
    \r\n\r\nedit: I cross-posted with John. I'll respond later. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 01:57:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Bill, I think part of what I find limited about problem solving as an explanation
    of creativity is that it doesn''t explain the genesis of the goal or, if you like,
    <em>the creation of the problems.</em> Some goals, and hence problems, are suggested
    or handed to us by circumstance, but if you place the creation of a work of art,
    say a painting, within the framework of problem solving you are still left with
    the question of why and how the artist created the goal of that particular work.
    As I asked very early in this discussion: what is the problem that a painting
    solves? There are going to be times, surely, in which we can point to some circumstantial
    impetus to the creation of a work of art, but I believe there are also gratuitous
    creative acts and this is where I think there is a hole in the goal/problem paradigm:
    it can''t explain the genesis -- and I use that term deliberately -- of all acts
    of making things.'
  created: '2010-01-21 03:36:00'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "There is nothing to dispute in your Frutiger-Avenir example. This is an excellent
    example of creative problem-solving. But I don\u2019t think this contextualizes
    or exemplifies *all* creativity.\r\n\r\nLike John, I am curious to understand
    the problem that a painting solves. Earlier, I put forward an example of Mozart\u2019s
    Kegelstatt Trio. While obviously we cannot know Mozart\u2019s specific motivations,
    I submit that there was no overarching problem, no goal. There was inspiration.
    \r\n\r\nWhat follows from there may have involved elements of problem-solving
    \u2014 \u201CHmm. How do I balance out this rondo? I know, let me bring that motif
    back from the variation and blend it with the recapitulation. Ah, problem solved.\u201D\r\n\r\nUsing
    a problem-solving framework to understand a creative process certainly has its
    place, as you describe in your study of Frutiger.\r\n\r\nBut I agree with John,
    problem-solving doesn\u2019t explain the genesis or essence of creativity.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 12:37:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, as Craig, who is an historian of art, explained above, the letters
    of Van Gogh to his brother describe exactly such a problem-solving process. I
    don't have time to look at it again now, but there is stuff like: \"I wanted to
    capture the quality of yellow of light on the wheat field, and I'm trying X and
    Y to see if it will work. I think I've got it\" \r\n\r\n>it doesn't explain the
    genesis of the goal\r\n\r\nGoals and evolution of goals is part of the problem-solving
    model. I suspect you folks are thinking that problem-solving is only the search
    process, but the model is richer than that. \r\n\r\nIf you ask me, I think the
    general impulse to creativity is part of humanity being made b'tzelem elohim,
    in the of image God--we imitate God in this creative aspect. But Hebrew has two
    different words for creativity, one reserved for God, \"bara,\" the second word
    in the Bible: \"Beginning, created God the heavens and the earth.\" The other
    is 'yatzar', \"form\" and that's what we do, \"form\" things. I think the implication
    is that only the Big Guy does truly creative work, and we are futzing around rearranging
    the furniture by comparison. \r\n\r\nBack to goals. Aside from the general impulse
    to be creative, and the emotional satisfaction of it, the actual process is focused,
    and the specific goals that are the focus for a major creative work can, in my
    experience, regularly be identified, and in all fields of creativity. \r\n\r\nThe
    gate to understanding goals is the concept of 'problem situation,' which is a
    translation from the German \"problemstellung\". When a creator is going to make
    something, whether it's a painting or a symphony or scientific theory, it is against
    the background of past problems and solutions--past works in that field. Each
    effort so for example Rembrandt would have been addressing his own problems, some
    being economic, and some technique, like light and shadow, and some perhaps capturing
    a certain feeling. When Van Gogh came along, he was aware of what Rembrandt had
    done, as well as what his contemporaries were doing, and was seeking a way to
    express himself differently in painting. \r\n\r\nNot being an historian of art,
    I can't tell you the story. I could tell pretty plausible accounts for the creation
    of a lot of typefaces, though. \r\n\r\nIn general, Popper said that intellectual
    progress comes by Problem, followed by solution, followed by criticism, followed
    by new problems. This cycle, which creates part of the 'problem situation' a creator
    is facing, is the key to understanding the specific goals of a creative effort.
    For example, for Frutiger, the immediate background was the solutions of Futura,
    Kabel and Avant Garde. His criticism was that they didn't work so well in text.
    His effort was to solve the problem. \r\n\r\nI am finishing a third book that
    takes this approach, and I think the approach is a way to shed a lot of light
    on the history of culture. \r\n\r\nNow if you tell me: \"You're never going to
    explain everything about creativity; they'll always be a mystery,\" I will answer:
    \"Of course; *nothing* is ever fully explained by scientific explanation.\" But
    will the problem-solving approach shed light on it? You bet. \r\n\r\nThat's why
    I'm frustrated with your sniping at me as historian of ideas. If you have something
    else to offer, do. Just saying \"that's not enough\" is empty. I knew that already,
    and you can always say it. \r\n\r\nAlso I don't think you appreciate the depth
    to which the problem-solving model goes. I just saw a PBS special on what makes
    us human, what is distinctive about the human brain vs animals. And one of the
    conjectures relates to the aha! experience. We all have had the experience of
    worrying about some problem, and the solution coming to us days later, when we
    are consciously thinking of something else. That shows that the human brain is
    unconsciously doing massive problem-solving continually. And that is something
    the human brain is uniquely suited to. B'tzelem Elohim. "
  created: '2010-01-21 14:41:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hmm. I didn\u2019t think I was sniping at you as a historian of ideas. I
    am trying to explore those ideas. I acknowledged the value of a problem-solving
    framework in examining creativity. I accept a lot of what you\u2019re describing
    and have experienced a lot of it myself, as an artist, as a thinker, as a human.
    \r\n\r\nYou and I seem stuck at an impasse when I say that it seems to me there
    can be creativity without problem-solving and when I give an example, you say
    No, that\u2019s Problem-solving, and yet me feeling that there\u2019s still something
    non-problem-solving there. \r\n\r\nYou have a Historical Perspective of Ideas
    concept of problem-solving and I have a This Is the Way It Feels to Me concept
    of problem-solving. And there we have it. You have explained the concept you\u2019re
    operating under quite exhaustively, and I believe that I understand it. But I
    don\u2019t feel that it covers my whole experience. I am not a philosopher or
    logician and I don\u2019t know that I can explain my points any more clearly.
    John seems better at this.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m sorry if you have felt attacked."
  created: '2010-01-21 14:41:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Kent, about sniping I was alluding to my pal Chris saying I'm a \"triangle\"
    because that's more rigid. \r\n\r\nThe basic issue here I think is \"Can you explain
    'inspiration' to some extent?\" And my answer is, Yes, you can go quite far. What
    I don't accept this that 'inspiration' is a locked door that science can't understand
    quite a bit of. That's what I hear John and Chris saying. I'm saying: no it's
    not a locked door, the concept of problem solving has cracked it open a bit. \r\n\r\nAnd
    if you can open it wider, please do, tell me about it. \r\n\r\nIf the reply is
    \"no that door is locked\", that's what I don't buy. "
  created: '2010-01-21 15:02:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill, I am not saying that there is nothing there under the streetlight of
    problem solving, I am just saying the the more workable solution is back in the
    darkness closer to the point of origin and that at some point, you will have to
    venture there out of your comfort zone. The triangle metaphor was based on the
    old puzzle where 4 connected lines are required to intersect raster points in
    a box. The solution is a triangle/arrow that exists \"outside of the box\".\r\nBTW,
    I am just messin' with you and hope you are not taking this too personally?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/box_5829.png]"
  created: '2010-01-21 15:37:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My failing memory had the puzzle missing a few dots. Here is a link to the
    real McCoy:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thinking_outside_the_box"
  created: '2010-01-21 15:47:07'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>When Van Gogh came along, he was aware of what Rembrandt had done, as
    well as what his contemporaries were doing, and was seeking a way to express himself
    differently in painting.</em>\r\n\r\nUm... nope. \r\n\r\nVan Gogh was seeking
    a way to express art - not himself. In fact, if you ever get a chance to speak
    with a <em>real</em> master they will be the first to tell that it is hard for
    them to get out of the way - of their own creative process.\r\n\r\nCreativity
    is something of itself. Just as the power of Reason is of itself. One can apply
    their Creativity upon their ability to Reason. \r\n\r\nChris, nice linkage. The
    article mentions Sam Lloyd. He was brilliant! His chess puzzles are simply awesome.
    And perhaps chess is a good metaphor for the power of Creativity applied to the
    power of Reasoning. In which case I'm reminded of the great American chess champion
    Paul Morphy!\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Morphy\r\n\r\nMy contributions
    to chess theory are not quite as notable ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:17:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, that (not your graphic, the correct one :-) is my favorite example
    of \"thinking outside the box\", not least because it's both figurative and literal!\r\n\r\n>
    Van Gogh was seeking a way to express art - not himself.\r\n\r\nArt <em>is</em>
    the self.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:32:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>Art is the self.</em>\r\n\r\nArt is the <em>lack</em> of the self."
  created: '2010-01-21 16:50:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, that's Inhuman.\r\nEven Design does not lack the self.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:53:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, your link is so much more creative than my same link yesterday :)
    \r\n\r\nBut it does say that \"outside the box\" is a tired clich\xE9. I'd like
    some more creative insight into creativity.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:59:03'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: Very interesting discussion. If you are not aware of it already, you may enjoy
    "How Designers Think" by Brian Lawson. Although the book doesn't necessarily identify
    what "creativity" is, Lawson does tie it fairly strongly to problem solving. But
    this may stem from his experience as a professor of Architecture.
  created: '2010-01-21 17:00:20'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>No, that's Inhuman.</em>\r\n\r\nUm... nope. \r\n\r\nIt's called Selflessness,
    Unselfish, None self, etc.. And, in the Creative process, many masters will tell
    you they lose <em>themselves</em> in the work. Some even take drugs to achieve
    the state of selflessness.\r\n\r\nTry to get beyond yourself ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-21 17:15:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Good Lord, I swore off this thread but it's like a moth to the flame.\r\n\r\nI
    can speak of improvisation in music firsthand. I have experienced many unusual
    things while improvising, stopping breathing (and freaking out when I realized
    what was happening), once I felt myself leave my body and float above the scene.
    If you close your eyes while improvising it is possible to \"check out\". Playing
    music for me now is a spiritual experience, it's my meditation.\r\n\r\nIs that
    going into the self, as Hrant states, or out of the self, as 5star posits? Impossible
    to say for sure but if I had to, I would say it's both. If you go down deep enough
    into yourself, you can get beyond yourself.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-21 17:49:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sufi stuff rules. I don't really know if I've ever been there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 17:51:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fXIeFJCqsPs|Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi
    talks about Flow here.]] It's what I like to call the creative trance. He says
    its related to the fact that with enough focus on a complex enough task, there
    is no space for self awareness. \r\n\r\nI think that the key is total focus. If
    you try to be selfless, I think it's picking up the wrong end of the stick. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 18:00:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...not least because it's both figurative and literal!\"\r\n\r\nExactly!"
  created: '2010-01-21 18:33:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hrant - Sufi music and thought do indeed rule. The Erguner Brothers are fabulous.\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd been there, you'd know. It is unmistakable. I am so blessed to be a musician
    who improvises, that lead to my first experiences. I have had other transcendental
    experiences under different circumstances, even stronger. But they were not unfamiliar.\r\n\r\nAgree
    with you William on total focus, but you can't even shoot for that. The results
    are not predictable at all, there just happens to be a right time, right mood,
    right everything. It's something you have absolutely no control over, maybe the
    key is to lose control. I remember reading a piece by a Sikh woman describing
    their communal prayers, she said most of the time it's rote, but that every once
    in a while something magical happened and it became a transcendent experience.\r\n\r\nIf
    I knew how to trigger something like this, these experiences wouldn't be special.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-21 18:54:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paul, my experience is like yours--it can't be forced, and sometimes it happens--great--and
    often it doesn't. \r\n\r\nI think I will get the 'Flow' book and see if he has
    insights on what promotes it. That would help teach creativity :)"
  created: '2010-01-21 19:04:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It took me a while to put together images in response to John's response
    to my comment on tools. I am going to post 3 images without commenting for now
    so I don't bias anyone too much. Later I will give my schpiel on why and what
    I mean.\r\n\r\nHere goes 1\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hammer1_SA_6470.png]"
  created: '2010-01-22 01:05:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here goes 2\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hammer2Cerem_5041.png]"
  created: '2010-01-22 01:05:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here goes 3\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hammer3Innova_3696.png]"
  created: '2010-01-22 01:06:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I didn't address a key point of John: \"b) it is possible to be creative
    without solving problems.\"\r\n\r\nThat's what I don't think is correct, if we
    are looking at the kind of excellent and innovative work that I said people have
    been concerned most with. \r\n\r\nIf you give me a great creative product, in
    the arts or sciences, then if I could interview the maker, I could give you a
    story of problem-solving. \r\n\r\nYou mention \"gratuitous\" creation. I don't
    think that happens, unless someone kicks over a bucket of paint, and then later
    decided they like what it did. Even the later decision has goals standards. Those
    might be beauty or amusement. To repeat, I am not only talking about practical
    problems. \r\n\r\nLet's look at Typeface design. Again and again the leading practitioners
    mention the importance of having a \"brief\" in order to create a good result.
    The brief is the parameters of a problem. The brief can change in interaction
    with the client, but that's about the evolution of problem through trial solutions
    and modification of problems that I wrote of above. "
  created: '2010-01-22 01:20:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If you give me a great creative product, in the arts or sciences, then
    if I could interview the maker, I could give you a story of problem-solving.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    you give me the exact same product and maker and allow me to interview them, I
    could give you a story of something OTHER than problem solving. That comes under
    the heading of self-fulfilling prophesy or \"seek and ye shall find\"\r\n\r\nI
    am not any great painter by any stretch but I have made hundreds of drawings,
    paintings, lithographs, etchings and woodcuts. The only few that were, to some
    degree, problem solving were those done in art school in response to a class assignment
    and most of them were pretty open. Example: Draw an insect at 100 times life size,
    or draw figures. More typically assignments were, \"Start painting and show me
    something next week.\" If you had ever been through weekly class crits of your
    work, you would know that the pragmatic approach to the assignment was not getting
    you anywhere.\r\n\r\nThe really amazing thing to me is that I think a couple having
    a child is the most creative thing possible. Having the child is rarely the problem
    needing a solution. Now raising a child is another story all together :-)"
  created: '2010-01-22 01:59:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, it's not self-fulfilling prophesy because my reason for being so confident
    that I can find a real problem-solving story is that the is account after account
    of creative work by the creator himself or herself describes a problem-solving
    process.\r\n\r\nTake for example the story of Frutiger and Avenir. I didn't prompt
    him or interview him, but to the interviewers--editors of the book--he told a
    problem solving story: goals searches, ideas, revisions of them in light of his
    standards. And the final result was crucially affected by this process. \r\n\r\nWhy
    what I--and he--have left out of the Frutiger story that is totally outside the
    problem-solving framework?\r\n\r\nI just remembered that there is a lot of history
    of art by Ernst Gombrich, author of The Story of Art, that is informed by some
    of the same outlook as Popper. Gombrich, like Popper Studied with B\xFChler. I
    know his work is highly respected, but it's not my field. And I'm sure he wouldn't
    fully agree with Popper--or me. They--great friends--are alas both gone now. \r\n\r\nBut
    the point is that serious, respected art history has been done in a framework
    related to this. \r\n\r\nI would pick up \"Art and Illusion\" and other works
    of Gombrich, but I have deadlines to meet, so I'd better get to them. "
  created: '2010-01-22 03:25:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Account for this...\r\n\r\nGenesis, Chapter 1."
  created: '2010-01-22 04:20:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I have no problem with the Frutiger story. It isn't about one anecdote. It
    is about all of the things that don't fit the anecdote that are still creative
    anyway. It is not something you have left out of the story. It is that the story
    leaves out other possible examples of creativeness that don't fit the mould as
    you have stated. To me, problem solving is not the sole possible domain of creativity.
    As I have said before, I do not know the answer, I just know the your problem
    solving description is not enough to pin down the phenomenon. "Eight Blue Poles"
    was not painted in reaction to a problem brief. Design problems (including typeface
    designs) are, however. Design and creativity are not synonymous though. There
    may be SOME correlations. I submit that a failed portrait (a portrait hated by
    the client) may still be a creative work even if it is rejected. The Sistine Chapel
    ceiling may have been a functional failure because it took so long to finish and
    later had blue modesty clothes painted over the nude body parts but it was a creative
    masterpiece however it was received in history. Creative acts can be performed
    either accidently or randomly without any problem set up or thought about. Perhaps
    creativity is the single most intangible human trait I can think of. Just because
    there is a ready supply of published literature on problem solving sitting under
    the streetlight does not mean that key to defining creativity is not either unpublished
    or unverbalized in the darkest shadows where no one has so far dared to look.
    Two humans having sex can create human life even if they don't want to and take
    steps to avoid it.
  created: '2010-01-22 04:40:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>What I don't accept this that 'inspiration' is a locked door that
    science can't understand quite a bit of. That's what I hear John and Chris saying.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    certainly didn't say that. What I said was that a particular line of inquiry into
    creative thinking applied to problem solving did not seem to me to be adequate
    to describing creativity. What else I said was that creativity seems to me to
    be a construct, and we should be wary of treating it as if it were a phenomenon;
    rather, we should seek to describe the range of phenomena to which this construct
    <em>might</em> apply."
  created: '2010-01-22 05:13:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>That [-- John's claim that it is possible to be creative without
    solving problems --] is what I don't think is correct, if we are looking at the
    kind of excellent and innovative work that I said people have been concerned most
    with.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that's exactly the kind of judicial, value usage of \u2018creative\u2019
    that I've rejected consistently throughout this discussion, even when made by
    people with whom I otherwise agree. I believe that being most concerned with \u2018excellent
    and innovative work\u2019 distorts the basic meaning of creativity. It is a judicial
    usage to move from ability to create to ability to create excellent and innovative
    things. Is it possible to create non-excellent and completely unoriginal things?
    Yes, it is. Ergo, the ability to create that is the basic meaning of creativity
    must encompass such creation.\r\n\r\nPS. I really like the bara/yatzar distinction.
    Thanks for that."
  created: '2010-01-22 05:20:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> John: As I asked very early in this discussion: what is the problem that
    a painting solves? \r\n> Kent: Like John, I am curious to understand the problem
    that a painting solves\r\n\r\nwhat's the stage of that painting/drawing? "
  created: '2010-01-22 05:29:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>what's the stage of that painting/drawing?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    immaterial. I didn't ask what problems are solved within the process of making
    a painting, but what problem is solved by the whole act of its creation."
  created: '2010-01-22 05:59:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > what problem is solved by the whole act of its creation.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    based on something Bill said earlier, I\u2019m thinking the response will be that
    the painting, as a whole, solves the problem of Beauty."
  created: '2010-01-22 12:44:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">judicial, value usage of \u2018creative\u2019\r\n\r\nJohn, I wasn't judging
    that less innovative things are unworthy. I was just trying to avoid getting enmeshed
    in a purely verbal dispute, by focusing on a set of clear examples. And these
    examples are I think what people have been most interested in in thinking about
    the issue of creativity. The concrete examples are a touchstone for relevance
    in a discussion, a way to keep focus. As I said, I am just following C.S. Peirce
    in his view that to be clear we need to keep practical consequences before us.
    \r\n\r\nChris, I keep getting the feeling that you think that the problem-solving
    framework is reductionist, that I am somehow dismissing the magic and mystery
    of it. I don't think so. What the problem-solving framework is saying is that
    if creative acts are in response to goals and difficulties, so that if you ask:
    what was the goal? what were the difficulties? what was the trial and error process?
    how was it judged? You get really interesting answers\u2014and ones that are revealing
    about the creative process. \r\n\r\nI just started looking at Gombrich, who looks
    very interesting. He does talk about \"accidental creativity\", which seems to
    support Chris's view that creativity just happens. But what he means, it seems,
    is that a relatively routine piece of work turns out in social context to have
    some novelty that other people latch on to, which changes styles of a whole generation.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, even the relatively routine creative work is goal-oriented, I
    think, and involves some mental or physical trial and error. Popper's example
    of the reversing Necker Cube illustrates how deeply the goal-trial-feedback loop
    is embedded in our brains and psyches.\r\n\r\n>what problem is solved by the whole
    act of its creation\r\n\r\nIn some cases beauty, as Kent says, will be one goal.
    But this is by no means the only goal. I see, very interestingly, that Gombrich--who
    had a deep knowledge of art history--is very leery of 'art for art's sake'. I
    think that is a relatively recent concept, created in the 19th century. I get
    the feeling that he believes the art/craft distinction is misleading or invalid,
    and that goals like inspiring people in a religious work or increasing respect
    for rulers, or making ordinary life more interesting or fun are also common and
    equally valid goals. \r\n\r\nIn other words, I think he would regard type design
    and easel painting as much more alike than we might think. "
  created: '2010-01-22 14:51:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The goal is simply to get whatever is inside of you out by whatever means
    you are skilled at. Artists produce works because they must. If they were not
    paid to do it, they would do it anyway. I don't mean this to sound like only self
    expression. Think of it as having an itch which you must scratched. Van Gough
    painted because he had to. He never experienced the wealth and notoriety that
    his work gets today.
  created: '2010-01-22 16:02:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I agree that we have an impulse to create, and that great artists
    have had it very strongly. \r\n\r\nBut I don't agree with the Romantic theory
    that the creative person simply has some \"genious\" that gives him or her special
    inspiration, and out pops the creative product. \r\n\r\nCreative works, even though
    they have an impulse behind them, they have a more focused goal, and a process
    to reach that goal. I hate to use this metaphor, but I can't think of a better
    one right now: creativity is not masturbation, but making love. \r\n\r\nIn the
    case of Van Gogh, here's an interesting take on a new edition of the letters:\r\n\r\n\"Van
    Gogh's art was not in any way a symptom of his madness. It was not even the spontaneous
    overflow of his powerful feelings. It was a thoroughly deliberated and self-conscious
    enterprise, worked out in his letters, executed on canvas and paper.\"\r\n\r\n[[http://www.independent.co.uk/arts-entertainment/art/features/the-real-van-gogh-the-artist-and-his-letters-1872067.html|Here's
    the link to the whole review.]]\r\n\r\nIn fact, it looks like Van Gogh describes
    the goals and problem-solving process for many of his paintings. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-22 16:22:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"creativity is not masturbation,\"\r\n\r\nI never said it was."
  created: '2010-01-22 17:05:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bill, now you made me order the Van Gogh book :-)
  created: '2010-01-22 17:21:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"To me it's a closed door to any further understand of the creative process...\"\r\n\r\nThen
    you must open the door with a different key than the one you clutch so tightly,
    excluding all others."
  created: '2010-01-22 17:28:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, you compared creativity to \"scratching an itch\".\r\n\r\nWhat I have
    been arguing is that it is more than reflex response to a desire: it involves
    an objective, goals\u2014and how the goals are formed and the process for reaching
    them tells us a lot about creativity. \r\n\r\nIf I've been understanding you,
    you think all this is beside the point, not essential to creativity. I think the
    goals and process to reach them are at the heart of it, even though the general
    motive to create is also important. \r\n\r\nAlso, I don't see how the romantic
    theory gets you anywhere. To me it's a closed door to any further understanding
    of the creative process: there's a genius, and he or she is inspired. End of story."
  created: '2010-01-22 17:39:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, what are the other keys? I'm not excluding anything, and I'm not married
    to the problem-solving model.  \r\n\r\nI'm saying that I've found this key has
    opened many doors, for me and others. \r\n\r\nI've asked you and John for other
    keys, and, please, even one example of how another key works.\r\n\r\nInstead of
    accusing me of being exclusionary, show me what I'm supposedly excluding. I'm
    all ears. One example.  "
  created: '2010-01-22 17:47:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As I have said several times, I do not have the answer and never claimed
    to. If I had the answer, I would have just posted it days ago. I cannot just step
    in and cut the Gordian Knot with a sword and march through. Scientists have not
    solved Unified Fields, try as they might. Why should I, but a mere mortal, be
    able to cut through the darkness of mystery and come up with the answer to creativity?\r\nTo
    me, it is not a romantic notion, it is more about pain and frustration in having
    to do something like chasing a carrot on a string."
  created: '2010-01-22 18:36:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I was using \"romantic\" in the sense of the Romantic movement of
    the 19th century, and people like Carlyle, with his \"Great Man\" theory of history,
    which includes suffering of \"great men\". \r\n\r\nI don't have any complaint
    about your not having more answers. My beef with you is your writing that I'm
    rigid and exclusionary because I don't see creativity outside the context of problem
    solving--the one approach that has shed light on creativity, as far as I'm concerned.
    \r\n\r\nI'd be glad to see it in another context if someone would show me a helpful
    one."
  created: '2010-01-22 18:57:31'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nmore practical attitude :) here's one of my drawings;   what
    problem is solved (I don't want  add oil to fire :) or saying there's or isn't
    problem solving :) just want to understand the model)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pic7A_6100.png]"
  created: '2010-01-22 19:09:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's wonderful. If it is a portrait, I would ask you why you wanted to
    do it, and what you were trying to capture or accomplish. That would tell me about
    the goal. Then for the process, I would ask about how you approached it, your
    own revisions, etc. That wouldn't *remove* the mystery of creation, but it would
    tell me something about it. \r\n\r\nTo go further I would ask about who trained
    you, what their approach was, what your reaction to their approach was. And what
    visual artists you admire, and why, and how that affected what you did. \r\n\r\nAll
    of these kinds of questions and answers are in the Frutiger book, and give insight
    into his creative process.  "
  created: '2010-01-22 19:17:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/julius2.htm\r\n\u201CYet perhaps his
    most lasting legacy was as a patron of the arts. It was Julius who hired, some
    would say bullied, Michelangelo, a reluctant sculptor, to repaint the ceiling
    in the Sistine Chapel.\u201D\r\n\r\nImagine the \u201Cdesign Brief\u201D Given
    by Pope Julius:\r\n\r\nJulius: Mike, I want it great and I want it fast, you have
    3 months before the Holy Days! And don\u2019t give me any crap!\r\n\r\nMike: Yes,
    Holy Father. Do you want fries with that?"
  created: '2010-01-22 19:37:32'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> If it is a portrait...\r\n\r\nnot my portrait :)  The goal is/was very
    simple: drawing realistic portrait (life drawing). "
  created: '2010-01-22 22:02:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">drawing realistic portrait\r\n\r\nWell, then there was a clear goal, and
    a standard of realism. I don't know what technique you were trying to work on,
    but I assume the purpose had to do with improving or keeping up your technique,
    so whatever you attended to would be the problem you were trying to solve, in
    addition to regularly checking your drawing against the person before you. \r\n\r\nIf
    you were more ambitious and were trying to make some kind of artistic statement,
    then probably more would be involved. "
  created: '2010-01-22 23:42:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, Chris,\r\n\r\nPerhaps part of the reason for our disconnect -- and
    at this stage I'm more inclined to think of it in these terms than as a disagreement
    --, is that the experience of creativity varies significantly, and while there
    are parallels between creativity in the sciences and in the arts, there are experiential
    differences that should be acknowledged and described. While a problem solving
    framework may be used to describe any creative act if one's concept of problem
    solving is sufficiently general, it seems to me that such a framework fits the
    experience of creativity in the sciences more easily than it fits that of creativity
    in the arts; that is, for a scientist, creativity <em>feels</em> like problem
    solving, whereas for an artist it might feel quite different. I'm not suggesting
    a general division, by the way: one has only to read the accounts of artists talking
    about different works to realise that their experience of creativity varies.\r\n\r\nRilke's
    account of the initial inspiration of the <em>Duino Elegies</em> in 1912 is a
    classic case of something that, at least experientially, doesn't seem like problem
    solving. In retrospect, if one were committed to a problem solving explanation,
    I think one could come up with one even to account for this flurry of inspiration,
    but for Rilke it felt like something else. Interestingly, after the initial burst
    of inspiration that resulted in the first two elegies and fragments of the others,
    the writing stalled for the better part of a decade. What this indicates is that
    a conscious problem solving approach without the inspiration was insufficient
    to this act of creation: no amount of working on the poems as if they were problems
    that could be solved by effort, skill and intelligence would result in their completion.
    It was only in 1922, in a \u2018savage creative storm\u2019 that Rilke not only
    completed the elegies but also composed the <em>Sonnets to Orpheus.</em> Again,
    I'm not suggesting that no problem solving framework can be built around these
    creative acts, but that to the poet they were not experienced as problem solving
    but as a \u2018storm\u2019.\r\n\r\nI suspect people in the sciences -- or for
    that matter in business -- experience creativity as problem solving because they
    have predefined goals independent of individual creative acts. Because the defining
    characteristic of art is extra-utility (which may include \u2018self-expression\u2019
    but that is <em>not</em> the defining characteristic of art, as most of the world's
    artistic heritage demonstrates), there tend to be fewer predefined goals, and
    hence the genesis of the creative impulse is less easily grasped.\r\n\r\nWhile
    a problem solving framework may be useful in many ways, I think we need to be
    able to talk about creativity in terms of the experience of the people who are
    creating; indeed, we need to be aware that insisting on a framework that fails
    to take into account that experience may damage and inhibit creative activity.
    As an example, I have a friend whose improvisational musical ability was pretty
    much killed by taking a university music course on jazz performance. The framework
    of understanding jazz performance presented by the course undermined his natural
    talent."
  created: '2010-01-23 05:06:00'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "David, my compliments to your sketch. In return, one of my crude chalk and
    charcoal sketches. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled_1371_5371.jpg]\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nPersonally
    speaking I'm spellbound by the line. There something very human about it - and
    it's relationships. Masses of gradations I have no problem with, and there's nothing
    more pleasing than a mass of colour, but the line just sends me. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 07:55:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but the line just sends me\"\r\n\r\nAs it did Matisse.\r\n\r\nLovely drawing,
    by the way!"
  created: '2010-01-23 13:17:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">disconnect\r\n\r\nYes that's it.\r\n\r\n>What this indicates is that a conscious
    problem solving approach without the inspiration was insufficient to this act
    of creation\r\n\r\nJohn, I think part of the disconnect is that, having studied
    historical examples of scientific creativity, I know that inspiration is also
    required for science. I never meant to indicate that problem-solving and inspiration
    are opposed. On the contrary, unless the problem is very routine, inspiration
    is required, in the sense of some process, mainly unconscious, of getting a solution
    from we know not where. What the problem-solving approach does is get us a bit
    further into the process than just saying \"inspiration\". \r\n\r\nThat's because
    the premise of the problem-solving approach is that the inspiration comes in service
    of the effort to achieve a goal, with some boundaries of what's a good solution
    or product. \r\n\r\nWhen you do try to reconstruct a creator's problem-situation,
    then I think you start to understand some of the creative process, even though
    a lot of it remains unknown. And that holds true for both science and the visual
    arts. \r\n\r\nThere is a difference with the visual arts, even compared to say
    fiction, in that it's a lot harder to describe the goals and standards. Further,
    the goals generally evolve more in producing an artistic product than a scientific
    one.  \r\n\r\nSo there are differences, but I wouldn't put them down to inspiration
    vs plodding.\r\n\r\nAlso, after reading Gombrich's skepticism about 'art for art's
    sake', I am skeptical about your contention that \"the defining characteristic
    of art is extra-utility\". I think there are markets for art and social utility
    to what is produced. --And that social view of art\u2014which changes\u2014is
    part of the problem-situation that guides artists. For example, Gombrich writes
    about traditions of 'connoisseurship'.   "
  created: '2010-01-23 19:35:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\nAll of what you just said focuses on the worlds viewers as witnesses
    to creativity, or talking about it to eachother. I don't see how an art historian
    or critic can really understand the process unless they also are producers of
    something creative. John, a friend of mine of several years back, was a gifted
    sculptor who won a prize at one of the Pittsburgh International Art Exhibitions
    in the 70s. His large work was featured prominently at the Carnegie Museum of
    Art along with other noted pieces from the show. He and I were looking through
    the show as were groups of tourists. While we were looking at his piece, a docent
    came by with a group of tourists and proceeded to \"explain\" my friend John's
    sculpture to them. She had no idea that John was the artist and standing right
    behind her. She went on about what the piece was \"saying\" and how it came about
    in a most convincing and confident way that had been polished by many repetitions.
    After she finished and moved on, my friend John said to me in a loud enough voice
    that everyone could overhear, \"Where to they get all of this bulls\xDFit!\" The
    group of tourists looked at John, who looked more like a steel worker than an
    artist, as if he had blasphemed and that surely, the docent knew best."
  created: '2010-01-23 20:05:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, \u2018extra-utility\u2019 refers to the characteristic quality of art
    that is found in virtually all human-made things, including predominantly utile
    objects (like Chris' lovely hammer collection). It does not refer to \u2018art
    for art's sake\u2019. This quality is observable across such a wide range of different
    object, periods and cultures, that I think it must be considered the defining
    characteristic of art, to which more localised characteristics are added. Something
    like social utility of art or traditions of connoisseurship are culture-specific,
    they are ways in which societies may interact with art. But the making of art,
    or of things with this extra-utile quality of art, precedes those interactions
    and is independent of them. As the British Museum's Neil MacGregor pointed out
    in his introduction to the BBC <em><a href=\"http://www.bbc.co.uk/ahistoryoftheworld/explorerflash/\">History
    of the world in 100 objects</a>,</em> almost as soon as humans start to make things,
    they start to make them beautiful, and that beauty is not a quality that is necessary
    to the utility of the object, it is extra-utile.\r\n\r\nI suppose you can, in
    the way in which problem solving can be generalised, do something similar to the
    notion of utility, such that everything humans do can be put within a utile framework.
    But I don't think there is any benefit to such an approach, because it erases
    the one clear characteristic by which one can identify art."
  created: '2010-01-23 20:13:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Everyone</em> should go listen to this radio programme while it is still
    available:\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/ahistoryoftheworld/objects/DyfP6g6dRN6WdwdnbIVbPw"
  created: '2010-01-23 20:47:43'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "John-\r\n\r\nNot only can I understand that speech, but relate to it; few
    years ago I was on a gold claim of my friend in Lapland, and \u2013 while sitting
    on \"riuku\", a basic outhouse \u2013 I saw a \"porotokka\"; that's Finnish version
    of Samic word for a heard of reindeers across the gully the claim was on. That
    evening I carved a picture of that image of the image on an old piece of wood,
    and gave that to my friend."
  created: '2010-01-23 21:04:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is a quote from John Hudson's above linked broadcast by BBC:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuoteBrittishMuseum_5044.png]"
  created: '2010-01-23 22:37:42'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks for the remark Chris!\r\n\r\nOn Matisse, citing from Jack Flam's book
    - Matisse On Art...\r\n\r\n\"...the unconscious enrichment of the artist is accomplished
    by all he sees and translates pictorially without thinking about it.\" "
  created: '2010-01-24 16:57:53'
date: '2010-01-12 20:39:10'
title: Can creativity be taught?

---
