---
author:
  name: Stephen Rapp
  picture: 111901
body: I just noticed on the main page that many of the new posts when I click on them
  I get "Access Denied" message instead. Is there something gone a bit awry here?
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Stephen,\r\nis the access really denied, i.e. can\u2019t you see the original
    post and comments?\r\nOr is it just that the thread\u2019s title (the Flash headline
    set in the [[Featured Face]]) reads \u2018Access Denied.\u2019?\r\nThe latter
    happens when you enter an URL (or, more likely, follow a link) that has a <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/42491\">subdomain
    other than \u2018www\u2019</a> \u2013 like \u2018dev'.\r\nF"
  created: '2010-01-16 23:21:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "A lot of threads seem to have disappeared, no matter how you look at it (tracker
    page, forum overviews, or even by directly entering URLs of past threads).\r\n:-|"
  created: '2010-01-16 23:28:39'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "There\u2019s definitely something wrong.\r\nNo more than one page in longer
    threads.\r\nNo previous pages on the type ID board.\r\nYer, and clicking any post
    on the flash frontpage leads to an access denied."
  created: '2010-01-16 23:28:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I can only access threads in the "newest"-column, "hottest" and "handpicked"
    are now forbidden content. And yes, most content is no longer listed. I hope this
    is a simple bug, and nothing fatal ... '
  created: '2010-01-17 00:03:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yes, I'm afraid something's gone quite wrong from this end too. Access denied
    with no page content for most threads I'm clicking. And only seven threads with
    activity in the last 24 hours? I don't think that's right :(\r\nHelp."
  created: '2010-01-17 00:26:39'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "My thread disappeared as well. I sent an e-mail about it. I'm glad to see
    Im not alone. \r\n\r\nThe search function still doesn't work."
  created: '2010-01-17 00:28:01'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> and nothing fatal ...\r\n\r\nNo big deal. We'll start all over again   :)\r\n "
  created: '2010-01-17 01:01:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yup, Typophile go boom. Huge numbers of recently started threads have disappeared.
    I kinda suspect it isn't helping to post new threads or responses to older ones
    a this point, since a roll-back to an archived database will probably be necessary
    and these news posts will disappear when that happens.
  created: '2010-01-17 01:09:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am also getting ACCESS DENIED. In my case this might be for the best. :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-17 02:59:57'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Ahhhh chaos! I love it. Rollback, rollback, rollback.
  created: '2010-01-17 03:15:54'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Paul:\r\n\r\nClever.  ;)\r\n\r\nI say we turn this into an \"anything goes\"
    thread. Might as well since it's one of the few left standing. If chaos be the
    game . . .     ;)"
  created: '2010-01-17 04:46:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yup, it done got broke.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-17 05:52:30'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I guess this is it. The THREAD.\r\n\r\nTo wrap it up I would like to admit
    to being a provocateur, a contrarian, a sycophant, a red herring, a striver, permanently
    unsettled, a person who is accustomed to and unduly proud of all of the above,
    not to mention myriad other crimes against humanity, myself, and generally everything
    I come into contact with.\r\n\r\nI hope they reset this database pretty damn soon.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-17 06:37:29'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IGuessThisIsIt_5009.jpg]'
  created: '2010-01-17 06:52:04'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: i'm getting the same problems... but i'm glad this thread is alive, yous guys
    is funnys :-)
  created: '2010-01-17 11:38:53'
- author:
    name: martinplus
    picture: 111615
  body: "It seems that \"Search\" is also problematic. I've tried many words (opentype,
    ot, feature, \u2026) and always ended up with { Page Not Found }\r\n\r\nMartin"
  created: '2010-01-17 11:40:50'
- author:
    name: benweiner
  body: Any node below 66295 perhaps? Is that useful info? ;-)
  created: '2010-01-17 12:58:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: It's, like, post-apocalyptic and we're the only ones left alive!
  created: '2010-01-17 15:07:57'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Richard:\r\n\r\nLet's hope there's some type still around.  ;)\r\n\r\nI think
    all the Dutch faces were strong enough to withstand blast effects. Ohhhh, I think
    I see Arnhem and Dolly. A few missing em dashes here and there, but nothing serious.\r\n\r\nTNR
    is still here. Because someone used it. Again.\r\n\r\nHere's hoping digital Electra
    and digital Fairfield didn't make it. \r\n\r\nIf you find Arial still alive, kill
    it. "
  created: '2010-01-17 15:22:01'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "If I see Denzel Washington walking in here with a book under his arm, then
    I KNOW we're in big trouble...\r\n\r\n- Mike"
  created: '2010-01-17 16:21:06'
- author:
    name: pookeyblow
  body: Shiit my thread is gone too!
  created: '2010-01-17 16:25:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I wish they'd shut it down and roll back before we start producing too much
    content now that we'll want to keep, too.
  created: '2010-01-17 16:37:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Based on the comments here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/66295\r\nthe content
    is still there. It's \"just\" a problem of permissions."
  created: '2010-01-17 16:42:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I've had no Access problems, but if we need to delete this forum to save
    it, then I'm all for it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-17 17:25:43'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Based on the comments here:\r\n> http://typophile.com/node/66295\r\n> the
    content is still there. It's \"just\" a problem of permissions.\r\n\r\nExcellent
    news I guess. Waiting for the fix..."
  created: '2010-01-17 20:34:28'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "This is hilarious - grabs popcorn and watches the site bleed type.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-01-17 20:42:24'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '... patiently awaiting some kind of statement from those in the know ... '
  created: '2010-01-17 20:56:23'
- author:
    name: cdunitz
    picture: 117291
  body: Yep - mine's gone too... I guess I should have done a print screen when I
    had the chance...I really needed this thread too... sigh.
  created: '2010-01-17 21:23:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I don't know if this is a related problem but all my blog entries are gone.
  created: '2010-01-17 21:33:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'This thread you can access through the home page screen, but it''s gone from
    the ''general discussions'' list. So the auto-indexing functionality is messed
    up.  '
  created: '2010-01-17 22:02:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Looks like it's all really broken. Are the Typophile team able to fix it?
  created: '2010-01-17 22:03:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypocalypseNow_5832.gif]'
  created: '2010-01-17 22:50:45'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: That's brilliant, Ben! I've tried to come up with a good pun all day. You
    did it. Isn't that 'a' stem a little thin, by the way?
  created: '2010-01-17 23:05:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks Sindre ;) I think that's a PS artefact \u2014 some of the antialiasing
    got lost converting to .gif I think."
  created: '2010-01-17 23:07:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Hey, is that a contextual alternate on the "y"?!  :-)
  created: '2010-01-17 23:12:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'I had to think of something! (Or cheekily follow your nifty lead ;) !) '
  created: '2010-01-17 23:17:03'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "\tPHOTOJOURNALIST (Dennis Hopper):\r\n\r\n\"Do you know what the man is saying?
    Do you? This is dialectics.\r\nIt's very simple dialectics. One through nine,
    no maybes, no \r\nsupposes, no fractions -- you can't travel in space, you can't
    go out \r\ninto space, you know, without, like, you know, with fractions -- what\r\nare
    you going to land on, one quarter, three-eighths -- what are you \r\ngoing to
    do when you go from here to Venus or something -- that's \r\ndialectic physics,
    OK? Dialectic logic is there's only love and hate, you\r\neither love somebody
    or you hate them.\""
  created: '2010-01-17 23:32:19'
- author:
    name: Sulekha Rajkumar
  body: Is anyone from Typophile reading this? When do you think it would get fixed?
    And are we helping by flooding this forum as well? Or should we all just shut
    up till you fix it :)
  created: '2010-01-18 06:27:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "<cite>\"\u2026doth protest too much, methinks.\"</cite>\r\n- Shakespeare\r\n\r\nBlather
    on, it's the end of the world as we know it, thankfully. :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-18 07:10:37'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm sure the people with the ability to so something about these problems
    will get to it as soon as they can, but this being a holiday weekend in San Francisco,
    I wouldn't expect much at least until late Tuesday.\r\n\r\nIf somebody is working
    on this over the weekend, I am thoroughly grateful, but you guys deserve your
    days off too."
  created: '2010-01-18 08:51:15'
- author:
    name: Domenico
  body: 'It''s actually quite ironic that when I clicked on this thread for the first
    time from the front page that I got the message: "Access Denied".'
  created: '2010-01-18 09:09:52'
- author:
    name: Rasendyll
  body: It's not All old threads...I found one (on CanadaType) from 2006 that was
    still active.  on the other hand a thread I started last week is invisible/gone...
  created: '2010-01-18 14:11:37'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: I already thought there must have been some problems, as there are only a
    few threads left in my 'tracking' bit in the account page, all of them really
    old. I had ridiculous amounts of pages before. Many recent threads are gone, or
    at least invisible.
  created: '2010-01-18 15:09:03'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "And just when I decided to use Typophile again. I was looking for some information
    but the \"search\" function does not work\u2026 Ah!\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-18 15:20:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's funny how the more complex computers get the more they act like humans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-18 15:58:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, and this one has Alzheimer's or something. \r\nOr it's a re-run of \xAB2001\xBB\u2026
    oh wait, we ARE in 2010!&nbsp;&nbsp;:->"
  created: '2010-01-18 16:36:13'
- author:
    name: Florinf
    picture: 111023
  body: "I also have a problem.\r\nPosted on Critique Script / Handwriting / Graffiti
    section, 3 days ago.\r\nMy username is there (florinf) before entering that section
    but when I enter there is no posting by me. \r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/1\">Forum
    | Critique</a>\r\nWhere is my post? Why is it not there?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-18 17:30:44'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "The good news: Your post is still there \u2013 I can see it: <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/66185\">'Thanks'
    - digital calligraphy</a>, right?\r\nThe bad news: it seems you (and most of the
    other typophile members) lack the rights to access that page (and most of the
    other threads), at the moment.\r\nDo I feel privileged now? Heck no! Rather like
    Robinson Crusoe, looking for some typophile Fridays. :-("
  created: '2010-01-18 17:59:40'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: So in other words the permissions are all wrecked?
  created: '2010-01-18 18:28:02'
- author:
    name: Florinf
    picture: 111023
  body: "Right. \r\nI get the access denied to my own post. \r\nSo, we'll need you,
    Florian, to check on our posts.\r\nWhat is wrong with our permissions?"
  created: '2010-01-18 19:15:07'
- author:
    name: mikehedge
    picture: 111900
  body: everyone still denied?
  created: '2010-01-18 20:17:50'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Everyone is still in denial. :)\r\n\r\nIt's not working yet mike.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-18 20:43:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Nope. No go yet. At 4:40 PM Eastern. I sympathize. Migrations, updates, can
    be murder. So many interdependencies to break.\r\nMost of them always undocumented.
    Part of the fun.\r\nWe're with ya. Go team Typophile!"
  created: '2010-01-18 21:41:30'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Never mind, Kant, we seem to be working with Hegel\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-18 22:06:51'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "\u2026or are we doing business with Kierkek\xF8rd? Are we broken that much?"
  created: '2010-01-18 22:11:21'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "This comes under the heading of, \"Defending professionals even when they
    are wrong and excoriating amateurs even when they are right.\"\r\n\r\nI suggested
    in a post about upcoming updates that they can't seem to upgrade without trashing
    what they already had. How prescient of me. And how little the (re)designers have
    learned from the past.\r\n\r\nIn the thread \"What a Shutdown for Maintenance
    Hath Wrought\" that I started (since lost), the general response was something
    like \"Give'em a break, they're volunteers, and we can help them by pointing out
    what needs fixing.\"\r\n\r\nThere are so many professionals who make their living
    designing, selling, and using fonts on this forum who uphold professional standards
    -- except when the professionals make mistakes -- and denounce and denigrate less
    professional mortals (and often some of their own) that I cease to be amazed when
    they put up with such grossly unprofessional website redesign, that I'm embarrassed
    for those who executed (probably a good word to use) it and those who defend them.\r\n\r\nAll
    people make mistakes some of the time, some people make mistakes all of the time,
    but not all people make mistakes all of the time. You tell me where Typophile
    website redesign falls in that spectrum.\r\n\r\nAnyone who posts on this forum
    who sells type or services on the web would be hard pressed to stay in business
    if their websites were redesigned as is Typophile's.\r\n\r\nWake up people. The
    emperor has no clothes.\r\n\r\nAs Nina said, \"I wish they'd shut it down and
    roll back before we start producing too much content now that we'll want to keep,
    too.\" Except they probably don't have a copy to roll back to.\r\n\r\nBTW, I posted
    this 3 times in Firefox and it never showed up!"
  created: '2010-01-18 22:31:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Tomi -\r\n\r\nMuch more than that, like Emil Cioran. :)\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-18 22:32:44'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello, Steve-\r\n\r\nSorry to say, but it is very likely that this on goes
    nowhere also."
  created: '2010-01-18 22:37:20'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: 'And Paul: lift that pessimimism; even Nietzhe said so. And it has nothing
    to do with type.'
  created: '2010-01-18 22:43:04'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "As long as we're waxing philosophical, how about Reinhold Niebuhr?\r\n\r\nNothing
    worth doing is completed in our lifetime,\r\nTherefore, we are saved by hope.\r\n\r\nNothing
    true or beautiful or good makes complete sense in any immediate context of history;\r\nTherefore,
    we are saved by faith.\r\n\r\nNothing we do, however virtuous, can be accomplished
    alone.\r\nTherefore, we are saved by love.\r\n\r\nNo virtuous act is quite a virtuous
    from the standpoint of our friend or foe as from our own;\r\nTherefore, we are
    saved by the final form of love which is forgiveness."
  created: '2010-01-18 22:48:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Sounds like the Bible, which I enjoy as metaphor.\r\n\r\nTomi - if you think
    I take any of those European philosophers seriously, you are mistaken. Been there,
    done that.\r\n\r\nI live in Califruityfornia on the edge of the New World, just
    about to fall off\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-18 22:58:03'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Is this a stupid idea?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shoe_4975.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    been brewing this for some years. I am going to make hundreds of ligatures. An
    this one is variant is to show basic form after and before a space. There will
    be a variant with a knot."
  created: '2010-01-18 23:13:26'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: It is BAAAAACK.
  created: '2010-01-18 23:14:02'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: YES IT IS!!
  created: '2010-01-18 23:15:34'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Indeed. There are still some quirks, though. This is a screen capture of
    the forum listing as it now shows: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/forum_3447.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-18 23:21:59'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Critique section has not been right since the upgrade.
  created: '2010-01-18 23:30:51'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Well, my blog is back.\r\nLooks like there is more to do, but it's progress"
  created: '2010-01-18 23:36:01'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Image uploading is not working. Yields an exotic "410" error code after the
    upload completes.
  created: '2010-01-18 23:37:53'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "\"It is BAAAAACK.\"\r\n\r\nTwo negatives make a positive. Here's two positives
    that make a negative:\r\n\r\nYeah, right.\r\n\r\nAvatars still do not display
    in the main forums."
  created: '2010-01-18 23:38:30'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Give the time.
  created: '2010-01-18 23:46:08'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Critique still starts from 15 Apr 2004.
  created: '2010-01-19 00:00:42'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Isn't there a backup somewhere?  ;)
  created: '2010-01-19 00:54:23'
- author:
    name: PCARTER
    picture: 117852
  body: "It appears that signatures have been done away with?\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm just
    missing it."
  created: '2010-01-19 02:15:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Steve, I have to say this debacle of the past 2-3 days is worse than it should
    have been; it's the type of thing that probably can and certainly should be avoided.
    I'll give you that.\r\n\r\nThat said, some highly-paid \"professional\" outfits
    often take much longer to get back on track, especially over a week-end when you
    have to pay people double or triple their wage, assuming you can even track them
    down, and then convince them!\r\n\r\nSo in toto I still think you should be more
    understanding and grateful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 02:42:31'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Perfect time for the first eva typophile limerick!! I'll start it off. Here's
    the first line - someone add the next line:\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>There once was
    an ampersand from Stilla.</strong>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 03:24:59'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "There once was an ampersand from Stilla.\r\nShe was way too tight with her
    cedilla,"
  created: '2010-01-19 03:31:24'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Thanks 5star and Tomi its hilarious. Sorry I could not help hogging the last
    lines.\r\n\r\n<em>There once was an ampersand from Stilla.\r\nShe was way too
    tight with her cedilla,</em>\r\n\r\nHer umlaut was awry\r\nPinned much too high\r\nOn
    hair-lines glistening with Wella\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 10:15:15'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Steve\r\n\r\nOur amateurs have done a far better job in their redesign than
    Adobe did last year when they redesigned their forums. I don't know if any of
    you were regulars there like I was (not past tense) but they managed to completely
    ruin several vibrant user communities. The problem was that they insisted on using
    tools that were ColdFusion driven, ignoring the many php tools.\r\n\r\nThe result
    was a technical disaster, followed up by a public relations disaster caused by
    poorly selected volunteer moderators coming down with a heavy hand. The result
    is that all the helpful old pros on the site, some with 10-15 years of experience
    or more, have left.\r\n\r\nI gave it up when the software ate up a web site critique
    I had made for a new designer, costing me a half hour of my time.\r\n\r\nThis
    is just to let you know that the professionals can, and do, mess up big time as
    well.\r\n\r\nDon"
  created: '2010-01-19 14:31:45'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Seems things are back to normal.  :)
  created: '2010-01-19 15:42:59'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<em>There once was an ampersand from Stilla.\r\nShe was way too tight with
    her cedilla,</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Her umlaut was awry\r\nPinned much too high\r\nOn
    hair-lines glistening with Wella</em>\r\n\r\nFantastic!!"
  created: '2010-01-20 05:38:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think Renaissance Man has just inched ahead of Uli and Joe to win \"Typophile's
    most grumpy\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 15:24:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uli isn't Grumpy, he's Berserkery. I'm Ranty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 16:29:00'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: Hrant, that sounds like a call for casting Typophile's seven dwarfs. Either
    by mood or typestyle... Scripty, Slabby, etc.
  created: '2010-01-20 17:11:28'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "386sky could be Warbly.\r\n\r\n[Ed. after reading his last post] Or HardHeadedly."
  created: '2010-01-20 21:55:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I think we need more like seventy dwarfs.
  created: '2010-01-20 22:39:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: <a href="http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew%2018:22&version=NKJV">Matthew
    18:22</a>
  created: '2010-01-20 23:08:22'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "don said:\r\n>   Our amateurs have done a far better job \r\n>   in their
    redesign than Adobe did last year\r\n>    when they redesigned their forums. \r\n>
    \  ...\r\n>   The problem was that they insisted on \r\n>   using tools that were
    ColdFusion driven\r\n\r\nso adobe loves coldfusion, eh?\r\n\r\nthat doesn't surprise
    me a bit.\r\n\r\nindeed, i'd say it's poetic justice.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 09:14:01'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: '@hrant - or are you Hranty? heehee couldn''t resist :-)'
  created: '2010-01-26 14:30:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As I tell people sometimes:\r\n\"Just don't be yourself.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 14:50:30'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Would that lightweight metal spent as much time writing constructive posts
    as he does in trying to characterize other people's posts.\r\n\r\nNot that his
    own  website is worth a damn: \"I know, I know...not much here. Sorry. I'll get
    to it soon! Maybe. No promises.\"\r\n\r\nThose that cannot do..."
  created: '2010-01-26 16:05:07'
- author:
    name: 386sky
  body: "Shiit if you wanted to post a reply with images at Opera you have a validation
    error which wants to try again later! With these wrong button names, the request
    will fail.\r\n\r\nThe remaining message was:\r\n\u300CValidation error, please
    try again later. If this error persists, please contact the site administrator.\u300D"
  created: '2010-02-10 13:05:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Not that his own website is worth a damn\"\r\n\r\nYou seem to take great
    offense in being called 'grumpy'. Not sure what my site has to do with this site.
    Other than the fact that you seem to like bitching about people's web sites. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 15:56:33'
date: '2010-01-16 23:12:49'
node_type: forum
title: Access Denied ?

---
