---
author:
  name: annette_jacobs
body: "dear type lovers,\r\n\r\ni need your help!\r\ni've got a new project. it's
  a trilingual book. german, english, spanish. \r\nthe book is about 160 pages long
  and mostly text - a few small images.\r\nit's about an art poject in mexico city.\r\n\r\ni
  was wondering if you can recomend any good trilingual book typograpy. if aou know
  any books that would be a good example.\r\nwhat i have so far is that i will use
  dolly in reg, italic and bold - diverent style for different language and the highlightin
  in the test will be bold in the reg text, italic in the bold and reg in the italic
  text. the text links will be small caps.\r\nwhat i dont know if it is more clever
  and usefull to have 3 colums on a spread for each language or to have one language
  after anoter - 3 pages engl than 3 pages german than 3 pages spaish... or maybe
  have a little more experimental solution.\r\n\r\nthanks for any respond\r\nannette"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: 'Here''s one example of trilingual (technically quadlingual) typography: the
    <a href=http://beinecke.library.yale.edu/dl_crosscollex/SetsSlideShowXC.asp?srchtype=ITEM>Cranach
    Press'' 1930 <em>Hamlet</em></a>, of which Roderick Cave wrote, "... of all private
    press works in the Kelmscott tradition, the Cranach <em>Hamlet</em> is the greatest."
    The main text here on each spread is the English copy of Shakespeare''s play,
    while surrounding it on three sides are two literary sources for the plot. The
    left side is the Latin (and later, French) originals, while the right is always
    the English translation. This is nearly as complex a setting as it gets, with
    woodcuts incorporated into each text, but it works elegantly.'
  created: '2010-01-19 15:53:23'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "You might be aware of this, but the brilliant <a href=\"http://www.typografie.de/Unsere-Buecher/Typografie/Hans-Peter-Willberg_Friedrich-Forssman/Lesetypografie::124.html\">\xABLesetypografie\xBB</a>
    has a section on multilingual layouts that should be worth looking through.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    your type choice: I'd advise against setting long (book!) text in either the Bold
    or the Italic of Dolly \u2013 they're really not meant for that I'd say\u2026
    and the Italic for emphasis in the Bold?  :-\\  For such a deliciously complex
    typographic project, I think you'd really be better served with a family that
    comes with more than 3 styles! Maybe consider something that has three stylistic
    \xABfamily members\xBB, like sans/serif/semi, sans/serif/slab or sans/serif/upright
    italic. That way you also wouldn't [have to] have one language \xABspeaking louder\xBB
    than the others. And you could use a gently darker weight in all 3 variants for
    emphasis."
  created: '2010-01-19 16:17:58'
- author:
    name: annette_jacobs
  body: "thanks a lot for your answers.\r\ndo you have any typefaces in mind for my
    book project?\r\ni really like the modern and special look of dolly and would
    like to use a serif font. \r\ni'm not sure if it's really a problem to use the
    bold and italic. \r\ni know that in theory you shouldn't but isn't sometimes the
    bible set in italic so you can have more text on less pages? \r\nalso i know a
    magazine - liebling magazine - that is set in arnheim bold and the readability
    is really fine.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 16:36:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I'm strongly with Nina on this, Dolly's bold is <em>very</em> dark and not
    suitable for text setting at all. The italic would work for shorter passages,
    but it is quite tiring for longer stretches. \r\n\r\nI would look for a typeface
    where the italics and romans have an even colour, and use a matching sans for
    the third language. A much used solution is FF Scala and FF Scala Sans by Martin
    Majoor. \r\n\r\nI'm also highly skeptical to your emphasis scheme. Trust me, this
    will not work. "
  created: '2010-01-19 17:08:30'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Another suggestion: Fred Smeijers'' great [[http://new.myfonts.com/search/quadraat/fonts/|Quadraat
    and Quadraat Sans]], also from FontFont.'
  created: '2010-01-19 19:53:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Nina said. Dolly's Bold and Italic are not usable for text. You need
    a font system with a richer palette. That said, if you have a clever layout (see
    below) I don't think you really need to hit people over the head with huge visual
    differences between the languages; differences of serif structure for example
    might even be enough - subtle, yes, but sufficient, while remaining calm and tasteful.
    See the various styles of FF Seria (which additionally is a very bookish font);
    the problem with Seria is that it doesn't yet* have a proper Italic.\r\n\r\n*
    Is that second Italic coming out or what?\r\n\r\nIn terms of layout, I like your
    \"experimental 1\" the most.\r\nIt's functional, balanced and attractive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 20:48:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Depending on how clearly structured your layout is, you might even get away
    with using the same font for all languages, if you want that, although that might
    be a bit too bland/equalized. It all depends on each other; and I think the layout
    question is near impossible to answer without seeing it in context of the whole
    book: How many images are there, or is it pretty much all text? Will the layout
    be the same for every spread with text, or can/will you vary it? Is it more important,
    for this book, to have a cool layout that people enjoy and/or that makes an (aesthetic)
    statement in itself; or does it primarily have to quietly ensure that every reader
    immediately finds the language they want to read, and let the content do the \xABdrama\xBB?
    Ask yourself these sorts of questions. Since this is an art book it could really
    go either way, between a very subdued grid/column layout or a more exciting layout
    such as your \xABexperimental\xBB ones. You have to decide how loud your layout
    should talk, so to speak.\r\nBTW, do consider that different languages will produce
    text of differing length, so your layout will presumably not \xABfill up\xBB equally.\r\n\r\nAs
    for fonts, Scala is a classic*, Seria should be very nice too\u2026 hmm, how about
    Nexus? And of course, Rotis is always there.\r\n* When's the slab coming out?
    :-)"
  created: '2010-01-19 21:16:16'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>When's the slab coming out?</cite>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.martinmajoor.com/1.7_scala_slab.html|2010]],
    says Mr. Majoor."
  created: '2010-01-19 21:23:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I second FF Nexus, which I didn't really know till now. With its three distinct
    styles (serif, sans and mix), it may indeed be the typeface you need. Then you'll
    have matching italics and small caps for emphasis in each language. Of course,
    Rotis will give you the same options, and is also a very good type family, but
    frankly, I think it <em>sucks</em>. Big time. But that's just me.
  created: '2010-01-19 21:59:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It's certainly not just you; many designers hate Rotis. I used to too, until
    I discovered how incredibly nicely it reads if it's used&set well. I think it's
    very powerful (and for this sort of task it could even serve <em>four</em> languages!),
    but it doesn't fit every project, in terms of \xABtone\xBB, and I have to suspect
    it's not the easiest font to use."
  created: '2010-01-19 22:23:54'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>[...] how incredibly nicely it reads if it's used&set well </cite>\r\nI
    don't doubt that at all, it's the letterforms themselves that bug me. They all
    seem to be the polar opposite of how I think letters should look, and to me a
    composition with Rotis always looks na\xEFve, slightly childish and weak. But
    then again, I've never used it myself. Can you point to a Rotis setting of any
    kind that you really like? I'd really like to have my prejudices put to test,
    you know. That's how I learnt to like MT Grotesque and Century Schoolbook.\r\n\r\nEr,
    sorry for OT-ing the thread."
  created: '2010-01-19 22:34:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rotis, even with its flaws (like overly loose spacing) is worth more than
    hundreds of other fonts put together. Because it's based on thought, not mimicry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 22:41:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Can you point to a Rotis setting of any kind that you really like?\"</cite>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.typografie.de/Our-Books/Typography/Otl-Aicher/Otl-Aicher-typographie::138.html\">Otl
    Aicher, \xABtypographie\xBB.</a>\r\nThe strange thing is it looks like it's going
    to be a <em>pain</em> to read \u2013 I remember thinking, ugh, I would never set
    text this way\u2026 and then it clicks big time! I still don't get it. But maybe
    it's just me.\r\n(I read [part of] the German part, in the Semi Sans; the English
    part is set in the Serif, so that may well read differently.)"
  created: '2010-01-19 22:48:50'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "You know what? I just bought it. \u20AC63,80 in total. When professionals
    like you and Hrant say jump, this dilettante jumps. \r\nI read a little German,
    so hopefully, I will get something out of that part too. Thanks for the tip!"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:08:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Well that's certainly a good investment to make. I remember I bought mine
    on the spur of the moment too, figuring this is one I need to have anyway.\r\nI
    guess now I better finish reading it! I need more time.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nCount
    on Rotis to completely derail the thread\u2026 where were we?"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:28:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That is indeed a monument of a book.\r\nI checked it out from the UCLA library.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:31:00'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "My only question is 'why a trilingual book at all'? It seems to me to be
    a major waste of paper, shipping costs, and resources to put the multiple languages
    into one book. About the only time I can see this being sensible is when there
    are more than 50% photos or illustrations in the book, in which case captions
    and text in three languages makes sense.\r\n\r\nIf the books are uni-lingual,
    I suspect total sales would be higher ... I know I avoid bilingual books (which
    occur occasionally in Canada)."
  created: '2010-01-20 13:59:01'
- author:
    name: annette_jacobs
  body: "thanks for your answers. i didn't expect a rotis discussion...\r\ni'm not
    a big fan on the rotis look. it's pretty functional though....\r\n\r\ndon, to
    answer your question why a trilingual book. it's a book about a mexican/german
    art project. it will happen in mexico but is financed from german companys - german
    and mexican artists and curators are involved - so it will be sold at both markets.
    but to be international there will also be english.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 16:38:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Now that I know what kind of book it is, it is more clear what to recommend.\r\n\r\nUsually,
    in books of this type, the same typeface is used for all the languages involved,
    in the same size and weight. So one turns the pages, and they're dominated by
    photographs, but each photograph has three captions, separated by some blank vertical
    space.\r\n\r\nOr there is running text; then one language is above the photograph
    on the page on the left, the other is below it on the same page, and the page
    on the right has text in the third language. I'm sure that it should be easy to
    find many examples of this sort of thing; many art books are done this way, and
    even more books of travel photographs.\r\n\r\nIt would be different if what you
    were preparing was a book almost entirely of text, in one language with extensive
    quotations from other languages. Then a different face, with somewhat indented
    margins for the quotations, would make sense. But for this kind of work, the normal
    convention is to treat the multiple languages as equally as possible."
  created: '2010-01-20 18:49:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That normal convention is highly dysfunctional. These days with so many fonts
    with so many variants there's no excuse for such monolithic Modernism. Example:
    Emil Ruder's book - totally ruined by such treatment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 19:23:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Example: Emil Ruder's book - totally ruined by such treatment.\r\n\r\nOh,
    dear. And I have a copy of that one, and thought of it as one of the examples.
    I will agree that it makes it harder to find one of the three languages at a quick
    glance - and, as it happens, that very book includes an example of how different
    typefaces are better suited to particular languages.\r\n\r\nOne could imagine
    a book in which German got Palatino or Weiss Roman, English got Plantin or Times;
    in such a case, I can't think, offhand, of a well-known traditional font choice
    identified with the Spanish-speaking world.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if one gave
    German Weiss Roman, English Bodoni, and Spanish Univers, that would be perceived
    as excessive.\r\n\r\nGiving German Futura, English Gill Sans, and Spanish Univers
    would be asking for trouble."
  created: '2010-01-21 11:03:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that very book includes an example of how different\r\n> typefaces are
    better suited to particular languages.\r\n\r\nYup.  :-/\r\n\r\nKind of like the
    concluding thought of \"Typographia Polyglotta\", a wonderful work which otherwise
    celebrates writing system diversity, where they attribute metaphysical powers
    to the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:49:23'
- author:
    name: carlos_moreno_
    picture: 115006
  body: 'Personally I find multilingual books and cumbersome and unpleasant, not to
    mention the composition problems. Is not considered to make three editions of
    the book, each in a different language? Changing the text plate the cost will
    be similar, and the final book object will be slimmer and smarter (and you can
    use the same font and layout in the three) '
  created: '2010-01-22 13:19:03'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "I don't intend to promote my fonts here, but with Nexus I exactly tried to
    solve the problem of three languages. Each language can be set in a different
    version of Nexus: Serif, Sans and Mix (slab). Four languages is not possible,
    but I am working on that.\r\n\r\nIn 2004 I made two fake illustration of a text
    in three languages, I will show it here again. \r\n\r\nAbove illustration: The
    three versions of FF Nexus. The text is from \u2018A Morning at the Bookshop\u2019
    by Carl J. Burckhardt  \r\n\r\nBelow illustration: Cover design by Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann
    (left), using Helvetica regular for all three languages. I designed a fake cover
    (right) to show how it could work with the three versions of Nexus.\r\n\r\n\r\nMore
    on [[http://www.martinmajoor.com/4.1_nexus_article_majoor.html]]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nexus_use_three_languages_3808.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nexus_use_brockmann_4321.png]"
  created: '2010-01-29 14:17:38'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<strong>Martin Majoor</strong>: What factors should inform one's decision
    as to which style [of <em>Nexis</em>] to set which language in?\r\n\r\nOne clear
    lesson to be drawn from your samples is that the Sans can be set <em>between</em>
    the Serif and the Mix in order to heighten the distinction between each adjacent
    pair."
  created: '2010-01-30 12:41:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Four languages is not possible, but I am working on that.\"</cite>\r\nSounds
    enticing. Any details? :-)"
  created: '2010-01-30 16:10:03'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "Christopher Adams: The order of the versions in my example (1. serif, 2.
    sans, 3. slab) has to do with the (logical) order of creation. For me the basis
    will always be the serif. From that you can derive the sans, and from the sans
    you can derive the slab serif (wich is basically a sans with serifs that have
    the same visual line thickness).\r\n\r\nWhich version to use for which language
    is up to the designer, it can be any order. But the advantage of using the three
    versions is that you have the possibility to use italic, bold and bold italic
    within each version. \r\n\r\nI have seen three-language books set in roman (first
    language), italic (second language) and bold (third language), but what to do
    if there should be a word in italic, or in bold?\r\n\r\nI have also seen books
    in which all languages have the same typeface for all languages. There the position
    on the page is the guide line. The advantage is that you can have any amount of
    languages, but it can be quite confusing reading it.\r\n\r\nOne book I have (Label
    Design by Claude Humbert) is set in Univers 55 (English), Univers 56 italic (French)
    and again Univers 55 (German). I think this is not correct, also from an editor's
    point of view. This may proof that we need other solutions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 14:18:19'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "Nina: \r\n\r\nserif = contrast + serifs\r\nsans = no contrast + no serifs\r\nslab
    = no contrast + serifs\r\n? = contrast + no serifs\r\n\r\nI am figuring out how
    this will look like.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 14:19:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting, Martin. Have you seen this?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/66901"
  created: '2010-02-02 14:24:15'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>? = contrast + no serifs</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is what I thought of too
    when you suggested you were working on a fourth style. Looking forward to it!\r\n\r\nI've
    heard this style called a serifless roman or a modulated sans, although neither
    term is completely unambiguous. In any case, I think this style is underexplored
    and promising for readability in longer texts compared to the usual low-contrast
    sans serifs. Optima is the best known example, but something that goes with the
    Nexus superfamily has the potential to be much nicer.\r\n\r\nI probably should
    mention the thread on [[typophile.com/node/66901|Sabon sans]].\r\n\r\nedit: I
    see Nina beat me to the link!"
  created: '2010-02-02 14:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think semi-serifs are our biggest untapped resource.\r\nAlmost all attempts
    so far have been highly superficial.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 15:10:45'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "I think there are three ways of approaching the 'contrast + no serifs' problem:\r\n\r\n1.
    Like Sabon Sans. This means cutting off the serifs of a serifed typeface and leave
    the contrast (almost) like it is. It is very interesting to see this Sabon Sans,
    I didn't know about it (thanks for the thread), for me this supports my own believe
    of deriving the sans from the serif, and not the other way around.\r\n\r\n2. Like
    Pascal and Optima. The contrast of a serifed typeface is kept, but there are no
    serifs. However there is a hint of a serif by making the stems 'incised'. \r\n\r\n3.
    Like Eric Gill's approach from 1935 http://www.typophile.com/node/53266\r\nHe
    made sketches for an incised typeface that was probably based on Gill Sans. \r\n\r\nThe
    Sabon Sans has a high contrast.\r\nThe Pascal/Optima faces have an average contrast.\r\nThe
    Gill face has a low contrast.\r\n\r\nI personally think that the typefaces of
    Mendoza and Zapf are visually the best. But Tschichold's approach is for me more
    interesting: he based his sketches for Sabon Sans on his Sabon with serifs. \r\n\r\nIf
    I would make a 'contrast + no serifs' typeface, I would take the serifed version,
    cut off the serifs and make it slightly 'incised'. Eventually I could lower the
    contrast a little bit or a lot, depending on the feeling I would like to give
    it. This would then be the fourth (and maybe fifth) version for setting yet another
    language.\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the way, I wrote a long article about Pascal that will
    be published this month in a book about Mendoza. I made some very interesting
    discoveries. http://ypsilonediteur.com/fiche.php?id=86\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 21:41:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> supports my own believe of deriving the sans\r\n> from the serif, and not
    the other way around.\r\n\r\nI assume this is because of a chirographic mindframe,
    where serifed forms result from the moving front so in a way contain the sans
    form \"within themselves\", whereas sans forms cannot \"know\" what the serifs
    \"would have been like\"? If that assumption is true -or actually even if it isn't-
    then a non-chirographic \"belief system\" does not feature this \"directionality\".\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I'm a fan of Pascal, and I'm looking forward to that book!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 22:31:04'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I had almost forgotten Rotis, which comes in serif, semi-serif, semi-sans,
    and sans variants. The semi-sans corresponds to the 'contrast + no serifs' we
    are talking about. I wonder if Rotis was the first to incorporate something like
    that into a type superfamily. I cannot think of any other examples offhand.
  created: '2010-02-03 07:40:25'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "And another interesting thing is that the other \xABsemi\xBB component of
    Rotis \r\nis not, as is popular today, a monoline slab, but a semiserif with contrast.
    \r\nI'm with Hrant in wondering why there aren't more of those made; I wonder,
    \r\nshouldn't it be possible to make a system that incorporates all six variants?
    \r\nI mean no serifs, half-serifs, and full serifs, each with and without contrast.\r\n(Basically,
    if you overlap the family concepts of Rotis and Thesis, this is the \r\n\xABcloud\xBB
    you get, with Rotis keeping mostly to the contrasty side, and Thesis \r\nto the
    monoline side.)"
  created: '2010-02-03 08:51:51'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Museo is a good example of no serifs (Museo sans), half-serifs (Museo), and
    full serifs (Museo slab) in a no-contrast superfamily. As for incorporating all
    six variants on the serif-contrast axes in a single system, I think it comes down
    to just who can afford to do all the work. Is there that great a demand for a
    six-variant superfamily to justify the sheer number of hours spent on creating
    one?\r\n\r\nMaybe some type designers are already planning such ambitious superfamilies
    but have only got around to releasing a few variants, with more to come over the
    years. After all, these things take time."
  created: '2010-02-03 09:14:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Brian, you've said it well. An Ultrafamily (new term?) might be useful, but
    we've already seen with Stone and Legacy that all members of superfamilies don't
    get used equally often.
  created: '2010-02-03 12:47:23'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I think a lot of respondents in this thread do not come from officially multilingual
    countries. I can assure you that in, say, the Canadian context, applying different
    typefaces (or any type attribute) to English and French to differentiate them
    would be considered favouritism, also graphically primitive.\r\n\r\nI am aware
    that everyone else thinks it\u2019s a grand idea to use more than one font. I
    think it\u2019s the worst idea.\r\n\r\nI expect layout will solve the problem,
    mostly imaginary anyway, of speakers of Language 1 mistakenly reading text (even
    short cutline text) in Language \xAC1."
  created: '2010-02-03 18:00:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>applying different typefaces (or any type attribute) to English and
    French to differentiate them would be considered favouritism, also graphically
    primitive</cite>\r\n\r\nHave a look at the <a href=\"http://www.viarail.ca/en/useful-info/onboard-train/via-destinations-magazine/june-2009-july-2009/\">VIA
    destinations</a> article on Julie Payette for example and you'll see that the
    font in French is a sans, it is a serif in English. I had a look this weekend
    at the Air Canada En Route magazine and the same holds.\r\n\r\nMichel "
  created: '2010-02-03 18:11:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't forget Compatil.\r\nAnd there's another one like that by Linotype -
    what's it called?\r\n\r\n> I can assure you that in, say, the Canadian context,
    applying different\r\n> typefaces (or any type attribute) to English and French
    to differentiate\r\n> them would be considered favouritism\r\n\r\nIf that's true,
    Canada needs to be fixed.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, Equality = Death, anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:24:22'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Generis?
  created: '2010-02-03 18:29:57'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is where my link came from: http://typophile.com/node/59570#comment-354645
    (a direct link to the post)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:30:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, Florian - thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:37:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Annette, are you still reading this thread? Which typeface did you pick for
    your project?
  created: '2010-02-03 20:37:59'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Here in Europe we see plenty of instances of multilingual typography in product
    packaging and instruction manuals, with the different Latin-based languages getting
    the exact same typographical treatment 99% of the time. So using the same typefaces
    for the different languages is really the default solution, only it's natural
    for us to wonder whether that's the best solution for all possible uses.\r\n\r\nIn
    the corner of the world where I'm originally from, multilingual typography means
    multi-script typography, as each language would use a different script. In an
    in-flight magazine with Korean, English, and Japanese text for example, you have
    no problem telling apart the languages at a glance. So I'm perhaps more receptive
    to the idea of some sort of visual differentiation between languages that use
    the same alphabet.\r\n\r\nI know Canadian law is sensitive to differences in type
    sizes between the two languages, but I can't imagine that the use of different
    typeface variants would be controversial."
  created: '2010-02-03 22:02:50'
- author:
    name: annette_jacobs
  body: "Thanks for all your respond. I was so busy that I didn't even get to read
    it all. Here you can see a sreenshot of my solution that I will be presenting
    the client this weekend. I choose to work with an experimental layout and contrast
    in the text. german and spanish are allways together on one spread, english is
    on a different colour paper at back of the book.\r\ngerman is set in auto 2 light,
    spanish in dolly reg. I also use small caps in the text and italic for side information.
    the english part is a mix of dolly and auto. dolly for headline and side information
    and auto for text.\r\nthe layout works nicely with pictures too and when the if
    the text doesn't fill up the page there is an interesting play of white space.\r\n\r\nbest
    annette\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bild2_5738.png]"
  created: '2010-02-04 16:50:23'
date: '2010-01-19 15:28:16'
title: trilingual book typography

---
