---
author:
  name: matt_desmond
  picture: 109993
body: I&#39;m working on a handwriting font that I would like to make semi-random.
  I alrady have glyphs for primary and alternate forms set up in fontlab. I tried
  to read through the Microsoft OpenType spec but it was like eating a box of rocks,
  a little hard to swallow. All I want to do is code the font so that &#34;ss&#34;
  and other dual characters that I set up will automatically be replaced with &#34;s
  s.Alt&#34; etc. <BR> <BR>Can someone point me to an easy guide to the programming
  side of OTFs, or let me know which code sequence I should be using?
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Are you making the OpenType features with FontLab or VOLT or ? If we know
    what tools you are using, we can provide more precise advice. <BR> <BR>Basically,
    though, you want to create a set of substitution lookups for the Contextual Alternates
    &#60;calt&#62; layout feature. I use VOLT for OpenType, so in VOLT syntax I would
    express your example in this way: <BR> <BR> s -&#62; s.alt <BR> s | <BR> <BR>The
    bar in the second line indicates the context, so this substitution would occur
    whenever preceded by s. <BR> <BR>Someone else can probably explain the FontLab
    / Adobe FDK syntax better than I can. I always have to go and read the manual
    again whenever I do any OT work directly in FontLab.'
  created: '2004-09-13 19:54:05'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: please try <BR> <BR>feature calt { <BR> sub s s&#39; by s.alt; <BR>} calt;
    <BR> <BR>&#39; indicates the glyph to be changed.
  created: '2004-09-13 19:54:55'
- author:
    name: matt_desmond
    picture: 109993
  body: Thanks for your help. I&#39;m using FontLab, but I think I&#39;ll download
    volt to check it out.
  created: '2004-09-13 20:09:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'There are three types of substitutions that may be useful to you: <BR> <BR>-
    ligatures <BR>- contextual alternates <BR>- contextual ligatures <BR> <BR>Ligatures
    are easy as pie. For example, if you have an ss ligature with a glyph name of
    &#34;s_s&#34; &#40;not to be confused with the German eszett&#41;, you could do:
    <BR> <BR>feature liga { <BR>sub s s by s_s;  <BR>} liga; <BR> <BR>Or for a contextual
    substitution where you get a different ss ligature when ss comes after the letter
    &#34;e&#34; <BR> <BR>feature clig { <BR>sub e s&#39; s&#39; by s_s.alt;  <BR>}
    clig; <BR> <BR>Note that you would want to put the clig feature ahead of the liga
    feature to make that work. Otherwise you&#39;d already have the s_s ligature and
    that substitution wouldn&#39;t fire. To make clig work &#42;after&#42; liga, you&#39;d
    do: <BR> <BR>feature clig { <BR>sub e s_s by s_s.alt;  <BR>} clig; <BR> <BR>Hope
    this quick tutorial helps. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-09-13 20:20:40'
- author:
    name: matt_desmond
    picture: 109993
  body: Awesome, thanks for all of your help. :-&#41; <BR> <BR>Now, my next goal is
    to make a completely random opentype font where there are 3 or 4 different glyphs
    for each character. ;-&#41; I know there&#39;s a random feature that I need to
    figure out...
  created: '2004-09-13 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Matthew,  <BR> <BR>there is a &#34;rand&#34; OpenType feature registered in
    the spec, but it isn&#39;t supported by any application &#40;to my knowledge&#41;.
    Therefore, you&#39;re best to try clig/calt as suggested above.  <BR> <BR>Adam
  created: '2004-09-14 00:09:53'
- author:
    name: type
  body: I use VOLT for OpenType <BR> <BR> <BR>what is VOLT?
  created: '2004-09-14 17:25:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/typography/VOLT.mspx">VOLT</a> = Visual
    OpenType Layout Tool <BR> <BR>This is a free, Windows-only tool provided by Microsoft
    for adding OpenType Layout functionality to TrueType fonts&#42;. It has a number
    of advantages over current FontLab and the Adobe FDK, most importantly in supporting
    some lookup types that are not supported in the FDK code, particularly one-to-many
    substitutions and anchor attachment positioning. It also allows you to order lookups
    independently of features, which means you can stagger lookups from different
    features which can help efficiency. VOLT is pretty much essential for doing any
    work with complex scripts, so it has a large user base of Indian and Arabic font
    developers. I&#39;ve been using it since 2000, and still prefer it to FontLab
    for this kind of work.  <BR> <BR>&#42;It can also be used to add such functionality
    to CFF OT fonts, but VOLT does not have a CFF rasteriser, so you need to do your
    work in a dummy TT font and then import it to a CFF font.
  created: '2004-09-14 20:38:09'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: 'I&#39;ve wondered about the &#34;rand&#34; feature. Would it be set up like:
    <BR>sub x from [x x.salt1 x.salt2 x.salt3 &#40;etc.&#41;] <BR>and then the application
    would randomly pick from within that set? or is there a more ideal way that this
    would be set up? <BR>unfortunately, i doubt any apps will support this feature
    anytime soon, but it&#39;d be nice to know how this feature would be written in
    theory.'
  created: '2004-09-14 21:35:43'
- author:
    name: type
  body: VOLT = Visual OpenType Layout Tool  <BR> <BR>This is a free, Windows-only
    tool provided by Microsoft for adding OpenType Layout functionality to TrueType
    fonts&#42;. It has a number of advantages over current FontLab and the Adobe FDK,
    most importantly in supporting some lookup types that are not supported in the
    FDK code, particularly one-to-many substitutions and anchor attachment positioning.
    It also allows you to order lookups independently of features, which means you
    can stagger lookups from different features which can help efficiency. VOLT is
    pretty much essential for doing any work with complex scripts, so it has a large
    user base of Indian and Arabic font developers. I&#39;ve been using it since 2000,
    and still prefer it to FontLab for this kind of work. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>Not too
    fast. Not too fast. I work with computers, but I&#39;m not a computer whiz.  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>VOLT is pretty much essential for doing any work with complex scripts
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Scripts - typefaces? or  programming issue? <BR> <BR> <BR> so it
    has a large user base of Indian and Arabic font developers. <BR> <BR> you design
    Indian and Arabic fonts?
  created: '2004-09-16 18:22:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Scripts - typefaces? or programming issue?</i> <BR> <BR>Heh, sorry, neither.
    The term &#39;complex script&#39; is used to refer to a writing system in which
    there is not a simple sequential rendering of glyphs relative to character codes.
    So Latin is typically considered a simple or non-complex script, because there
    is a one-to-one relationship between the characters that you type and the glyphs
    that appear on your screen, which are simply laid out in a line. Of course, once
    you start including ligatures, variant letters, dynamic accent positioning, etc.
    Latin ceases to be so simple, but it remains differentiated from complex scripts
    in the sense of writing systems that require complex processing simply in order
    to be readable. So, for example, Arabic is a complex script because individual
    letters may take different forms depending on where they occur in a word or what
    the adjacent letters are, and this is normative behaviour for the writing system.
    <BR> <BR> <BR><i>you design Indian and Arabic fonts?</i> <BR> <BR>I have not designed
    any Indian typefaces yet, but I&#39;m looking forward to it. I&#39;ve done Thai
    &#40;with Fiona Ross and Tim Holloway&#41;, which is related to the Indic writing
    systems. I&#39;ve collaborated &#40;again, with Fiona and Tim&#41; on Arabic font
    development, although Tim does most of the actual design and I have the fun job
    of making the complex script stuff work with OpenType lookups. The most complex
    thing I&#39;ve had to both design and build was the SBL Hebrew font for Biblical
    Hebrew.
  created: '2004-09-17 03:01:59'
- author:
    name: type
  body: <i>I&#39;ve done Thai....  I&#39;ve collaborated on Arabic font development...
    <BR>The most complex thing I&#39;ve had to both design and build was the SBL Hebrew
    font for Biblical Hebrew.</i> <BR> <BR> <BR>Interesting. Do you speak the language&#40;s&#41;?
    Did you know that you want to design non-latin typefaces? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m reading
    the book &#34;Designing Typefaces&#34; -now the story by Akira Kobayashi. That
    is why I&#39;m asking. <BR> <BR>Do you think it is wise to study/learn another
    language?  <BR>I&#39;m asking that since of the thread &#34;Breaking into the
    Industry&#34; <BR> <BR>Back to VOLT - In order to design non-latin typefaces you
    need VOLT? and PC?  <BR>Why you can&#39;t design non-latin typefaces with MAC?
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Oh....what is &#34;SBL&#34;?
  created: '2004-09-17 17:52:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I don&#39;t speak most of the languages for which I design type. Even if
    I spoke one language for each of the scripts for which I design, that would still
    be only a tiny percentage of the actual languages written in those scripts. Speaking
    or reading knowledge of a language is not necessary to design for &#39;foreign&#39;
    scripts. It is important to have a good understanding of the history and development
    of the script, or to work closely with people who do. I try to understand scripts
    as systems, in terms of construction, relationship to language and grammar, etc.
    Most often, I arrange to have my work reviewed by an experienced typographer who
    is a native user of the script, unless I&#39;m particularly confident in my knowledge
    of a script or can&#39;t find someone with the appropriate skills and experience.
    <BR> <BR>I started designing for non-Latin scripts in 1997, when I tried my first
    Cyrillic design. At the time, I was mainly looking for a way to expand the number
    of shapes I got to draw: I was getting bored of Latin letters. Later I realised
    that I&#39;d accidentally stumbled into one of the few growth areas in this business,
    and also one in which few of my colleagues were working. <BR> <BR> <BR>You can
    make plenty of non-Latin typefaces without VOLT. You only need VOLT if the script
    requires OpenType Layout features that are not supported in FontLab yet, e.g.
    anchor attachment positioning. Since VOLT is a Windows tool, you need to either
    be running a Windows machine or VirtualPC to make complex script OT fonts. You
    can, of course, make AAT format complex script fonts using free tools from Apple,
    but the tools are ludicrously difficult and the format has only minimal application
    support and is not cross-platform compatible. <BR> <BR>A lot of people who start
    out in Latin script type design come to it from a North American or European graphic
    design background, in which the Mac is still the most common tool. But for non-Latin
    font development and <i>use</i> Windows is a much more common platform. Personally,
    when I look at the range of font development applications and tools that are available
    on Windows, many of them free, I really can&#39;t see any point in using a Mac.
    Windows is simply a better font development environment. This is not to say that
    typical Latin font makers are missing out on anything by using a Mac: if everything
    you need to do can be done in FontLab, then it doesn&#39;t matter what platform
    you are on. But I have upwards of 20 font development and testing applications
    on my system, which perform a variety of functions including things that cannot
    be done in FontLab and which have no parallel on the Mac. Now, I should also point
    out that most of my clients are major software developers, who have very strict
    technical quality assurance requirements, so the kind of non-critical bug that
    might pass unnoticed in the average Latin retail font is not acceptable in my
    work. And if, for example, my client says they want a TT font to have a version
    3 OS/2 table and a format 3 post table, I need to be able to deliver that, even
    if FontLab doesn&#39;t have these options yet. <BR> <BR> <BR>SBL is the Society
    of Biblical Literature, a scholarly organisation that is one of my clients.'
  created: '2004-09-17 19:54:11'
- author:
    name: type
  body: More interesting! <BR> <BR> <BR><i> Later I realised that I&#39;d accidentally
    stumbled into one of the few growth areas in this business, and also one in which
    few of my colleagues were working.</i> <BR> <BR>Now I have a challenge!  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>In your opinion - to buy a PC? Is there a good PC?  Windows or XP? &#40;
    I don&#39;t know if I&#39;m going to do that this year...&#41; <BR> <BR><i>if
    everything you need to do can be done in FontLab, then it doesn&#39;t matter what
    platform you are on</i> <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know what I want to do, or can do,
    or &#34;can be done with FontLab&#34;
  created: '2004-09-17 21:31:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: If you want to buy a Windows PC, I suggest a Dell machine running Windows
    XP Pro. Some of the Toshiba Satellite laptops are quite good too. I should also
    note that I don&#39;t know much about current PC desktop hardware, as I&#39;ve
    only used laptops for the past five years.
  created: '2004-09-18 19:06:45'
- author:
    name: type
  body: Thank you John. <BR> <BR>&#40;By the way, I have Toshiba Satellite laptop
    , but with Windows 98&#41;
  created: '2004-09-18 19:13:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Speaking or reading knowledge of a language is <BR>&#62; not necessary
    to design for &#39;foreign&#39; scripts. <BR> <BR>As I expressed in my recent
    Spatium magazine article, with proper help from natives &#40;like in proofing
    legibility&#41;, linguistic analysis and a general sensitivity to cultural authenticity
    and functionality, a non-native can produce very good type in scripts he doesn&#39;t
    even know the elemental sounds for! But one thing you can&#39;t do without nativity
    is push the cultural boundaries, to express things beyond what historical precedent
    will encourage. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-09-21 20:23:42'
- author:
    name: type
  body: <i>But one thing you can&#39;t do without nativity is push the cultural boundaries,
    to express things beyond what historical precedent will encourage.</i> <BR> <BR>  cultural
    boundaries - such as....?
  created: '2004-09-21 21:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: For example let&#39;s say you need to make a dual-script system with Latin
    and a non-Latin font. To know how much and in what directions you can &#34;push&#34;
    the non-Latin component to match the Latin requires a sensitivity that goes way
    beyond what a non-native can usually muster. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-09-21 21:40:09'
- author:
    name: type
  body: '&#60;font class=&#34;dontLookLikeCrap&#34;&#62;<i>let&#39;s say you need
    to make a dual-script system with Latin and a non-Latin font</i> <BR> <BR>any
    good sample? your work? I see that you are dealing with non-latin, no &#40; and
    came from Russia. Do you speak Russian?&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR>By the way - do you
    any good source to learn/study: Russian, Arabic, Hebrew, Latin, Greek - <BR> <BR>
    like Alexander Lawson,  Alexander &amp; Nicholas Humez &#40;Alpha to Omega - Greek
    history as seen through the development of its language &amp; alphabet&#41;&#60;/font&#62;'
  created: '2004-09-21 23:11:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Got $15? Buy the current issue of Spatium magazine - all is explained.  :-&#62;
    <BR> <BR>Russian: I just learned to pronounce all the letters, but that&#39;s
    about it. I&#39;ve heard it&#39;s a hard language. <BR> <BR>Resources: I saw that
    other thread of yours - give me a day or two. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-09-21 23:30:33'
- author:
    name: type
  body: You&#39;re fast. Thanks. <BR> <BR><i>Got $15? Buy the current issue of Spatium
    magazine</i> <BR> <BR>From ?
  created: '2004-09-21 23:41:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/47261.html" target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/47261.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-09-21 23:47:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Hrant, <BR>My copy of Spatium just came in the mail today.  Hmmmm, ah, let
    me see here. . .ah, YES, page 10 &#34;Latinization: Prevention and Cure, by Hrant
    H. Papazian. :-&#41; <BR> <BR>Bravo Hrant! <BR> <BR>ChrisL'
  created: '2004-09-22 01:13:05'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'In response to Hrant&#39;s comment on cultural boundaries: <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve
    found that a little cultural cross polination is the perfect way to push cultural
    boundaries. For example, Latin alphabets done in Japan are very interesting. &#40;I
    recently came across <a href="http://www.p22.com/pavilion/index.html">these</a>
    at p22&#41;. Even from a linguistic standpoint, non-native speakers often use
    expressive transliterations that, because they are different from common idioms,
    communicate beautifully. <BR> <BR>Now, Hrant may argue that becuase so many Roman-native
    type designers do non-roman fonts, the cross-polination has gone out of control--an
    invasive species out-competing the native fauna, as obrusive as non-native sucker
    fish, sqeezing out the native trout in my state. This may very well be the case.'
  created: '2004-10-02 06:11:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I love cross-polination. I also love cultural variety. The degree to which
    these two things can coexist positively depends on the &#34;security&#34; of the
    scripts/cultures in question. What I mean is that for example Latinization of
    Armenian is much worse than that of Cyrillic or Arabic. And things like the Arabization
    of Latin is downright great - and I&#39;m not saying this due to some cultural
    prejudice, but simply because Latin is too strong to be hurt by it - it can only
    get richer thanks to cross-polination. <BR> <BR>Also, a big on-the-ground problem
    with cross-polination is that it&#39;s almost never done with the subtlety necessary
    in the realm of text design. Virtually all Latinized non-Latin fonts reduce readability
    through blind fealty to formalism &#40;eg matching x-heights&#41;, and pretty
    much every single Latin face that&#39;s made to look like some non-Latin script
    or other can only ever be a cute, naive display face. We need to clearly understand
    the qualitative difference between text and display before we can apply typographic
    cross-polination well. But even then sometimes it&#39;s a bad idea. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-10-02 06:31:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I recently came across [<a href="http://www.p22.com/pavilion/index.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.p22.com/pavilion/index.html</a>] at p22 <BR> <BR>Wow,
    now I know the <i>real</i> meaning of Unicase: the PTAF font &#40;in the first
    set&#41;. <BR>Dude, you could like base an entire 20th century design ideology
    on that, dude. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-02 21:06:26'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: 'I recently came across these <BR>if you like that kinda thing, check out:
    <BR><a href="http://www2.wind.ne.jp/maniackers/designfont.html" target="_blank">http://www2.wind.ne.jp/maniackers/designfont.html</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.flop.jp.org/" target="_blank">http://www.flop.jp.org/</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.lovedesign.tv/" target="_blank">http://www.lovedesign.tv/</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.orange.ne.jp/~den7/" target="_blank">http://www.orange.ne.jp/~den7/</a>
    <BR><a href="http://www.kinemamoon.com/" target="_blank">http://www.kinemamoon.com/</a>
    <BR>... just a few of my favorites'
  created: '2004-10-02 21:25:18'
date: '2004-09-13 19:38:52'
node_type: forum
title: Help with OpenType handwriting font programming?

---
