---
author:
  name: wormwood
  picture: 111794
body: "Hello again Typophilers\r\n\r\nAny feedback or criticisms, from both designer
  and consumer viewpoints, of the branding, typography and packaging for this beer
  brand would be greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nPlease note that all the elements in
  white will be silver on the bottle labels and cap.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BauhausBeerTypophile01_5191.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "The counter on the 'A's are rather large. To compensate I might move the
    cross-bar up a tad.\r\n\r\nSince the name is Bauhaus, I might experiment a bit
    more with the classic square, circle, triangle shapes commonly associated with
    the movement."
  created: '2010-01-19 18:01:22'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: ^agree with all these thoughts as well
  created: '2010-01-19 18:22:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think this is pretty strong, except for the Helvetica. There's no reason
    why it needs to be there &ndash; in fact to my eyes it seems out of place both
    visually and historically; it feels like a non-choice, and next to the fresh &
    typographic mark that's sort of a letdown. Something a bit more fresh, angular
    and less compromising might be great as secondary font. Sans or maybe slab.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    be sure not to go too Marlboro on the front label. Although I think the way it
    is now should be fine.\r\n\r\nEdit: The type on the back label is tiny indeed
    &ndash; can you test if it's actually still legible once you take it to the silver
    foil paper?"
  created: '2010-01-19 18:22:39'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "On the back label the body text looks like it can't make its mind up between
    being justified or ragged!\r\nalso what is the mark before 'organically (Above
    ABV). I would be looking to avoid having this mark to the word's left hand side
    even if you could optically align it. I would even go so far as to redesign the
    back to take care of this!\r\n\r\nOtherwise back looks neat."
  created: '2010-01-19 18:33:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I would avoid pairing it with a grotesque (Premium Beer, etc.)\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Ooops, sure I'm slow!"
  created: '2010-01-19 18:41:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "From a consumer standpoint, I like my beer labels a tad more vintage/friendly
    looking. \r\nThat, and the alcohol too! ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-19 18:50:47'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks everyone.\r\n\r\nThe logotype matrix is 5 units high and I would rather
    not subdivide it. So the A's crossbar either goes where it is or vertically centre.
    I tried it centre but preferred it 1 unit down.\r\n\r\nAny actual suggestions
    for an alternate typeface to Helvetica? One that could work for all the type other
    than the logotype. I would rather not introduce a third typeface.\r\n\r\nI hadn't
    considered the Marlboro similarity. I'm disappointed in myself for not spotting
    that.\r\n\r\nThe back label type is small but should be OK. Will see for sure
    when the proofs are done.\r\n\r\nAll the back label text is align left ragged
    right. Any justification is pretty much just by chance.\r\n\r\nThe mark before
    'organically grown' is an asterisk to link to those after 'barley' and 'hops'.
    I'm happy that it creates a small indent in this context.\r\n\r\nThe decision
    not to adopt traditional beer styling was a considered one, which was decided
    upon partly to distinguish the product from alcoholic beers."
  created: '2010-01-19 19:41:03'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "<cite>All the back label text is align left ragged right. Any justification
    is pretty much just by chance.</cite>\r\n\r\nA mantra I like to go by is 'Dont
    except chance unless chance gives you perfect.'\r\nI like ragged right aswell,
    but as the type is set here, I would consider having the text re-written either
    to:\r\n\r\nA. make the rag more obvious\r\nB. add in the extra words you need
    to keep an even density in the line while allowing for justified text.\r\n\r\nJustified
    text was popular with the hard-core Bauhaus designers. I can hear Max Bill telling
    me now, <cite>This is not a book, it is a beer label.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>'*organically
    grown'</cite>\r\n\r\nOK, so you are referencing the ingredients on the next line.
    Careful \u2013 because this looks like a continuous string because of the short
    measure (line width). Consider what designers of the Bauhaus would have done,
    would they have accepted what the machine automatically did for them? - well actually...
    [humor]\r\n\r\n<strong>[TIP]</strong> Small Caps for Post code?\r\nI used to make
    heavier weight either using a bolder weight or outline and made the type smaller
    so as to be optically the same as the rest of the address. This technique has
    been useful for stationary until now where Small caps are becoming more frequent
    feature.\r\n\r\n/mh"
  created: '2010-01-19 20:21:53'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thank's userone. You're right. A couple of edit's to the main body of copy
    on the back label and it will justify evenly.\r\n\r\nI was happy with the slight
    visual indentation caused by the aligned left asterisk in front of '*organically
    grown' exactly because I thought it helped to prevent it from looking like part
    of a continuous string. What would the designers of the Bauhaus have done? I've
    received none of their schooling. Well, maybe a little, subconsciously.\r\n\r\nI
    think I will leave the post code in this instance, partly so that its text block
    remains mostly justified.\r\n\r\nCan any of the campaigners against using Helvetica
    or a grotesque suggest some alternatives?"
  created: '2010-01-19 22:29:36'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: BTW I try to avoid using Helvetica as a rule. I regard it as rather a lazy
    default setting. This is possibly only the third time I've used it in my entire
    career. But for this job I thought it was the natural choice for a number of reasons.
    It's interesting to hear otherwise.
  created: '2010-01-19 22:57:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This looks sporty to me (may look less so when the white becomes silver).
    That may work pretty well with the 0% alcohol idea. I think it's appealing overall.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sold on the neck label - that diagonal baseline works against the gridded
    design of the font, IMO.\r\n\r\nAny chance \"total organic\" could become \"totally
    organic\"?\r\n\r\nHow about Avenir for the Helvetica text?"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:01:20'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: p.s. I think the big B needs to be moved right a touch to be optically centered.
  created: '2010-01-19 23:03:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"the natural choice for a number of reasons\"</cite>\r\n?\r\n\r\nI'd
    suggest something clean, with clear shapes and a constructed character. I was
    first thinking something angular like Stratum or maybe the new Vitesse; but on
    second thought that might be tricky in terms of getting uncomfortably close-but-not-quite
    to what you have in the mark. So, how about something geometric but round &ndash;
    in the overall direction of the ultimate Bauhaus font, Futura? But possibly a
    bit more current and smooth; dunno, Avenir or maybe even Gotham might be worth
    trying. Take care to carefully balance the weights.\r\n\r\nBTW, there might be
    better typographic solutions than a slash between \xABZero Alcohol\xBB and \xABTotal
    Organic\xBB.\r\n\r\nEdit: I see Craig suggested Avenir too. Nice :-)"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:07:05'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I don't think anyone ever called me a campaigner! ;-)\r\nI would try something
    \"futuresque\", in order to contrast with circles the squareness of the logo,
    or something \"cut & curved\": http://typophile.com/node/41687\r\n\r\nEdit: I'm
    know to sleep between tabs..."
  created: '2010-01-19 23:19:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Here's a little something I'm working on at the moment, based on a few Norwegian
    functionalist letters from ca. 1932. It's less severe than Futura, borrows some
    details from the version of Erbar Grotesk used on Norwegian street signs, but
    the main inspiration is the lettering on the great Norwegian phone boxes. Almost
    finished in two weights. A possibility?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/50_6628.png]"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:43:20'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "That is very nice! \r\n\r\nHave you considered the two-storey 'a' from Erbar;
    it would work well with those characters. You could do a stylistic set to have
    both.\r\n\r\nAnd would you consider doing the small x-height version as well?"
  created: '2010-01-19 23:53:34'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Tomi. Er, yes, I tried, but couldn't make a decent one. I've made
    a good \"\xE6\" with the \"a\" part two-storey, though. I'm keen on making this
    a no-compromise typeface, unlike Erbar, that almost could double as a grotesque.
    I'll start a separate thread on this soon, I just need to make the bold cut more
    finished first. \r\n\r\nIt wasn't my intention hi-jacking your thread, Jonathan.
    Still, if you like my typeface in progress and want new, fresh lettering for your
    brand job, I'm open for a chat about that. I'll show you a better sample in a
    little while."
  created: '2010-01-20 00:06:28'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Look what I found from 1997:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Terbar_3433.png]\r\nThese
    are crap, but with two x-heights and a two-storey 'a'. I had totally forgotten
    about this, but you reminded me, and I found these eventually."
  created: '2010-01-20 00:37:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "That's great, Tomi. You never finished them? \r\n\r\nHere's a very quick
    mock-up: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bauhaus_telefon_5216.png]\r\n\r\nI
    apologize if you think this is too forward of me, Jonathan. I just got a little
    excited."
  created: '2010-01-20 00:51:02'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hi, Sindre-\r\n\r\nNo, I never finihed them, and in fact I had totally forgotten
    I'd ever made them in the first place. Now I have to think about this; should
    I go for them again?\r\n\r\nWith your 'PREMIUM', those M's look iffy. Perhaps
    cut them to cap height, and adjust the diagonals?"
  created: '2010-01-20 00:59:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Well, my goal is not to make this a smooth, modern geometric, but to keep
    a lot of the typographical na\xEFvet\xE9 of the early geometrics. Then again,
    I made those bold M's in a hurry a few minutes ago, so they might need much adjustment.
    Thanks a lot for your great input and enthusiasm, but I feel we should continue
    to discuss these things when I post this typeface up for critique in a few days,
    so we don't hijack this thread any further. "
  created: '2010-01-20 01:22:45'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Here's a recent bahaus type abstraction I did recently.\r\n\r\n..just cause.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/baloobahaus_3555.jpg]"
  created: '2010-01-20 02:17:28'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Many thanks to everyone for all the feedback and alternate typeface suggestions,
    offers and mockups. I'll give them serious consideration.\r\n\r\nI agree that
    the diagonal neck label compromises the overall geometry but it was something
    I had no say about. It's not too bad and maybe even adds a little dynamism.\r\n\r\nThe
    wording <em>\"total organic\"</em> was chosen instead of <em>\"totally organic\"</em>
    for syllabic and visual symmetry.\r\n\r\nI think the forward slash within <em>'Zero
    Alcohol / Total Organic'</em> is probably the most suitable option. I thought
    dots would not be as complimentary and anything more complex would be un-Bauhaus.
    I also think there's a popular sense of modernity with the forward slash through
    its use on the internet.\r\n\r\nI didn't mean to suggest anyone was a campaigner.
    It was just a lapse in vocabulary :)\r\n\r\nLove that graphic, Ratbaggy. Maybe
    do the whole alphabet and release them as a poster/postcard series.\r\n\r\n.\r\nHere
    are some of the reasons, which may well be misguided or narrow minded, why I considered
    Helvetica as <em>\"the natural choice\"</em> for this job ...\r\n\r\n- A sans
    serif was needed for a modernist design.\r\n\r\n- An angular constructivist sans
    serif would clash with the logotype.\r\n\r\n- A rounded constructivist sans serif
    would be too close to the lettering on the Bauhaus building and conflict with
    the logotype and brand identity.\r\n\r\n- It works well for an <em>'information
    graphics'</em> aesthetic which connects with a Bauhaus/brutalist <em>'form follows
    function'</em> and <em>'ornament is crime'</em> ethos.\r\n\r\n- It can be used
    for all the text other than the logotype and still be legible at very small sizes
    on the back label and therefore the undesirable introduction of a third typeface
    is avoided.\r\n\r\n- It has a wide choice of weights which makes it very workable
    for the labels and the many other contexts in which it will be needed.\r\n\r\n-
    It has a relatively large x-height which minimizes the lowercase text's ragged
    horizontal rivers of space that would compromise the overall geometric design.\r\n\r\n-
    The dates of release for Akzidenz-Grotesk (1896) and Helvetica (1957) bracket
    the Bauhaus era fairly closely (1919-1933)."
  created: '2010-01-20 03:57:30'
- author:
    name: Pixel Pusher
  body: 'The counter form in the large "B" looks like an equal sign. '
  created: '2010-01-20 20:26:41'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Thanks Pixel Pusher. I hadn't spotted that. May use it in some way as part
    of the marketing.\r\n\r\nB = A x 0% + O x 100%"
  created: '2010-01-20 22:18:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "By the way, are you aware of the pan-European (sans UK) low quality supplies
    shop [[http://www.bauhaus.no/index.php?id=1703|Bauhaus]]? The similarity stops
    at white sans on bright red, but that's enough for most people, I guess.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bauhaus_5899.png]"
  created: '2010-01-21 02:48:20'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "I was aware of the Bauhaus retail stores. Bauhaus Beer will initially launch
    in the UK and some other non-European markets.\r\nAnd on the bottle packaging
    everything that is white, in the image I posted, will be metallic silver."
  created: '2010-01-21 16:26:58'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "just curious \u2013 what\u2019s the concept behind this product?\r\nI don\u2019t
    really get the link between bauhaus, zero alcohol, totally organic, the colours
    and a Swiss brewery\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-21 23:34:01'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: Guess it is a play on Brauhaus / brewery ?
  created: '2010-01-22 08:32:05'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "I don\u2019t get it either. Not my cup of tea (or: can of beer)."
  created: '2010-01-22 15:18:15'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "The product's concept is good tasting organic beer that lets you stay sober.
    The name has no significant link, concept, wordplay or pun. It was found to be
    suitably appealing among potential buyers and consumers.\r\n\r\nHowever, there
    is one word that may suggest a connection between the product and the name ...
    sobriety.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting how the questions of meaning that are asked
    about the naming and identity of products/brands in development are seldom asked
    of products/brands already on the shelves, which are mostly accepted at face value
    and the level of instinct or feeling.\r\n\r\nBeers names that are proper nouns
    have no inherent meaning. And where is there any real link between the product
    and the name of these beers for example... Duvel (devil) / Tiger / Cobra / Stella
    (star in Latin) / Red Stripe / Corona (crown in Spanish) ?"
  created: '2010-01-22 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: "I see no real core values to this brand at all as it stand, strapping the
    design around the bauhaus movement is all well and good but does it really communicate
    what's inside the bottle? and the heritage of beer in general?\r\n\r\nThe silver
    foiling in my option could potently look quite tacky and could be seen as a unnecessary
    device to enhance a some what bland label.\r\n\r\nI'm trying to picture the bottles
    shelf presence with its bold upright label with the silver foiling all lined up
    together, and I'm thinking very over powering and dominating, sure i can see it
    drawing attention to itself but will it be for the right reasons.\r\n\r\nAs a
    consumer i defiantly wouldn't associate this style of design with a beer label,
    i would see it being more fitting for like an energy drink or something amongst
    the kind."
  created: '2010-01-23 00:56:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I dunno, I think "Bauhaus" makes some sense for <em>non-</em>alcoholic beer
    made of organic ingredients. Clean, modern, sober, progressive, cool. '
  created: '2010-01-23 01:32:54'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>@ francis bold</em>\r\nI think the plain and succinct wording on the
    label communicates what's inside the bottle perfectly clearly. The rest is mainly
    tone of voice. The creation of the beer's identity was more concerned with evoking
    an attitude and shared values than with <em>\"strapping the design around the
    bauhaus movement\"</em>.\r\n\r\nAlso, I do not think it is either necessary or
    appropriate for this beer's branding and packaging to communicate the heritage
    of beer in general. This beer does not share that heritage and it would be misleading
    to the consumer to suggest that it did. Hopefully the market will assess this
    product with as little prejudice as possible.\r\n\r\nYou're quite right about
    the silver foil. It is wholly <em>\"a unnecessary device to enhance a some what
    bland label\".</em> Worth a shot though, don't you think?\r\n\r\nIt's funny, I
    pictured the bottles' shelf presence in exactly the way you describe. I hope it
    works. Drawing attention to itself is its primary objective. The rest is for the
    shopper to decide.\r\n\r\nGlad to hear that <em>\"As a consumer i defiantly wouldn't
    associate this style of design with a beer label\"</em>. It was another one of
    the aims for the design to avoid beer label cliches. The bottle itself and the
    context in which it will be encountered, as well as some cognition on the part
    of the shopper, should be enough to overcome any confusion.\r\n\r\nAnd an association
    to <em>'energy'</em> drinks, and their kind, is better than an association to
    the<em>'follow this with 6 shots, a kebab, unsatisfactory sex, projectile vomiting
    and a hangover'</em> kind of drinks.\r\n\r\n<em>@ eliason</em>\r\nThanks for those
    positive adjectives ... <em>\"Clean, modern, sober, progressive, cool.\"</em>
    They're exactly the sort I would put on the Bauhaus beer mood board if I had one."
  created: '2010-01-23 04:46:58'
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: "You defend your decision well, but I'm still not convinced. Perhaps when
    you do the consumer testing and apply the 3 second rule it will tell a different
    story. By all means I'm not totally against the design it has for me some ok touches.
    I'm drawn more to the neck label than anything else, and almost would like to
    see that brought down into the main label at a larger scale and the B to go up
    as a wrap around neck collar. \r\n\r\nfor me it would be how i can create more
    of a understated elegant and calm (sober) image, than a overstated and evasive
    dominant presence \r\n\r\nAnd remember women drink beer to. The hole design seems
    to be very male orientated.\r\n\r\nOh and yeah the silver foiling cant do much
    harm, but its expensive specially considering the area coverage you have. maybe
    consider just doing a nice outline round the B than the hole."
  created: '2010-01-23 14:27:12'
- author:
    name: Special-K
    picture: 117327
  body: "For some reason, I'm not liking the placement of the \xAE on the Large B.
    Maybe bottom right instead - not sure. With the product being \"Organic\", I would
    think earthtone colors would be more appropriate. Think it could go well with
    the silver. What color is your beer and bottle to be?"
  created: '2010-01-26 15:58:37'
date: '2010-01-19 17:10:48'
node_type: forum
title: Bauhaus Beer Branding

---
