---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "http://www.macworld.com/article/145383/2010/01/verdana.html\r\n\r\nMostly fleshing
  out more weights and condensed versions.\r\n\r\nThe price had gone up too! ;-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Verdana condensed looks pretty good.
  created: '2010-01-20 17:54:05'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: I dig Verdana for what it is- but $370 - $598 is a lot and there are about
    a hundred higher ranked typefaces on my 'to buy' list.
  created: '2010-01-20 18:31:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It would certainly be great to have weights\r\nbetween the Regular and its
    so-called Bold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 18:32:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Eeee, how many weights should there be between regular and bold?\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-20 18:38:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, that's not a Bold, that's a Black! Anyway I do think a\r\nDemi can
    be very useful even in a system with a modest Bold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 18:44:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I don't get it. It's still a screen font, right? Who needs all these weights
    and widths for lo-res screens? Why does every typeface have to have thirty or
    forty variants these days? Inflation, just like in literature. And films. Quantity
    is the new quality.
  created: '2010-01-20 18:47:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW David, why was one given to you and the other to Steve?\r\n\r\n> Who
    needs all these weights and widths for lo-res screens?\r\n\r\nAnti-aliasing.\r\nMacOS
    for one forces it on you (although in crappy quality).\r\n\r\n> Quantity is the
    new quality.\r\n\r\nThat's sort of true.\r\nOften character coverage trumps basic
    quality these days.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 19:18:25'
- author:
    name: Tahoma
  body: "On behalf of myself and all the web-safe fonts (I'm sorry that Courier New
    couldn't be here tonight), I want to wish Verdana all the best.\r\nGoing pro,
    imagine that.\r\nYou know, when we first start out in this business, all fonts
    dream of a professional career. But Verdana, you really did it!\r\nYou must have
    one heck of an agent, pal. Heh, heh, heh, heh.\r\nSeriously, lots of luck and
    don't forget to stop by every now and then to say hello to your old friends in
    the font folder, okay?\r\n\r\nFondly,\r\n\r\nTahoma"
  created: '2010-01-21 05:09:26'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Quantity is the new quality.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf only half of designers
    pay for fonts we might as well sell twice as many to make up the difference!"
  created: '2010-01-21 06:34:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Well, that's not a Bold, that's a Black! \r\n\r\nThe step from regular to
    Bold in Verdana prime was tailored for low res. i.e. there was a extra specially
    large jump to make sure, (on \r\nWindows), that the rendering there would show
    it, or if aliased, there would be a large enough jump for a whole pixel. \r\n\r\nWe
    put one step in between for other kinds of rendering, among other things. \r\n\r\n>Who
    needs all these weights and widths for lo-res screens?\r\n\r\nWho needs all those
    different rendering options? Who wants to use horizontal scaling? Who wants to
    look thin or fat? The who's abound. ;)\r\n\r\n> Quantity is the new quality.\r\n\r\nCliche
    is the genius. \r\n\r\nCheers! "
  created: '2010-01-21 13:20:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > It would certainly be great to have weights between the Regular
    and its so-called Bold.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, did you even look at that waterfall
    graphic accompanying the linked article? There\u2019s a very nice Semibold right
    between the two."
  created: '2010-01-21 13:29:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Okay, here: I got permission to provide a better sneak preview (better than
    that fuzzy jpeg with the MacWorld online article). These are still Betas, still
    in development.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VerdanaProBeta_showing_6354.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VerdanaProBeta_waterfall_5604.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-21 15:30:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The step from regular to Bold in Verdana prime was tailored for low res.\r\n\r\nWell
    yes, I know that.\r\nThat's what made the \"Bold\" in effect a Black, which\r\nmakes
    it great that you added a real Bold in between.\r\n\r\nKent: Yes, I certainly
    did look - but maybe I was unclear\r\nbefore; when I said \"that's not a Bold,
    that's a Black\" I was\r\ntalking about the original Verdana.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 16:52:01'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I applaud the effort of posting as Tahoma. ;o)
  created: '2010-01-21 17:10:21'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: "The article says they are being tweaked for print also. But at this point,
    Verdana is so overused (on the web of course), I'm not sure many would want to
    get the Pro version. Maybe in another 20years, if computers come with larger font
    libraries and the embedded fonts take off on the web.\r\n\r\nInteresting to know
    the same dude did Georgia and Tahoma. I've always felt Tahoma was a cross between
    Verdana and Arial, or basically a tighter Verdana with less letter spacing."
  created: '2010-01-21 17:27:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact Tahoma came first, but it was spaced too\r\ntight, so they just loosened
    it - voil\xE0, Verdana.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 17:52:51'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I'm waiting for a pro version of Trebuchet.
  created: '2010-01-21 18:17:07'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Kent: Yes, I certainly did look - but maybe I was unclear before;
    when I said \"that's not a Bold, that's a Black\" I was talking about the original
    Verdana.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I understood that. \r\n\r\nYour first comment opined
    that it would be great to have weights between Regular and Bold. I confess that
    I was unclear whether that was meant as an endorsement of the new approach (which
    includes a weight between Regular and Bold), or whether your use of the plural
    \u2018weight<em>s</em>\u2019 was a criticism of the new scheme (because it does
    not include *multiple* weights between the two).\r\n\r\nDB seems to have understood
    the comment in the second way, asking you how many you think there should be.
    Your response seems to imply that his interpretation was right \u2014 although,
    I\u2019m further uncertain whether your use of the term Demibold means that you
    think there should be another intermediate weight different from the Semibold,
    or whether you\u2019re using that term interchangeably, or whether maybe you mean
    a Demibold should fall between the Bold and the Black weights.\r\n\r\nSo, I offer
    the waterfall to see if you do indeed think an extra weight should be added between
    the Regular and the Bold (in addition the Semibold).\r\n\r\nJust to be clear,
    the Bold in the Pro development is the same as the original Bold."
  created: '2010-01-21 18:35:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think:\r\n- Almost always a weight between a Regular and Bold is great.\r\n-
    Some Bolds are so dark two would be nice. What to name them? Well, the Bold should
    be called Black, then you'd have naming room for the others!\r\n- Verdana is borderline.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-21 21:15:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Having a version of Verdana that is meant for sizes other than small is neat.
    I think it's a great IKEA, I mean, idea :p\r\n\r\nI'm REALLY excited about the
    idea of having a Georgia Pro too. Despite it's relative prevalence, I think that
    Georgia is such a nice typeface. Expanding it into a more dynamic family might
    make this Scotch Roman really get the attention it deserves.\r\n\r\n\r\n@s0me0ne\r\nVerdana
    isn't overused on the web. It's underused. Arial is overused. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-22 00:54:45'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: I guess I think its overused, because I never use Arial for the sites I make.
  created: '2010-01-22 14:19:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@aluminum\r\nyeah, i thought Tahoma's post was funny too.\r\n\r\n@david berlow,
    kent lew, or whoever knows...\r\n\r\nI'm left wondering exactly what the purpose
    of Verdana Pro is. It seems to very much be a reworking. It's a new family based
    upon and strongly resembling the old. (Correct me if you don't see it this way.)\r\nIn
    the wake of the IKEA episode, is it a proof-of-concept for a font that can work
    equally well onscreen and off?\r\nWill it be available to license for linking
    with @font-face?\r\nWill it ship with the next version of Windows and be licensed
    by Apple and therefore join the ranks of the \"web-safe\" as is Verdana amateur?\r\n\r\nVerdana
    and Georgia aren't just fonts, they're a <em>brand</em> of font in and of themselves,
    with connotations attached that it appears the Pro versions don't have.\r\nOr
    will they?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 22:47:33'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Verdana is a great font for use on screen. But in print it just looks like
    a font that's made for use on screen. Same with Nokia font, one or two pixels
    narrower. It's just hard to make type to fit in a grid. \r\n\r\nAsk Philippe Grandjean
    and the grid of 2304."
  created: '2010-01-23 22:52:07'
- author:
    name: Gerry K
    picture: 111480
  body: I hope Georgia Pro includes the hybrid figures that came with the original
    version of Georgia in addition to the current old style figures and the lining
    figures that will presumably be created.
  created: '2010-01-24 01:25:27'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Verdana condensed black FTW!
  created: '2010-01-24 05:35:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm left wondering exactly what the purpose of Verdana Pro is. \r\n\r\nAn
    expansion of a successful font family is uncommon for a leftist to wonder about.\r\n\r\n>I
    hope Georgia Pro includes the hybrid figures...\r\n\r\nNo, but speaking of figures,
    there is an issue I promised to raise here:\r\n\r\nEach of these families came
    originally with different default figures, old style proportional with Georgia,
    tabular lining with Verdana. To maintain compatibility, they are staying that
    way. \r\n\r\nIndesign, e.g. will then offer two other sets of figures to the user,
    for Georgia; lining tabular and proportional figs, Verdana; old style and lining
    proportional figures.\r\n\r\nThe issue is, that there is no label in InDEsign
    for what the default figures actually are, the user will have to know.\r\n\r\nIs
    that okay?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 13:29:18'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I'm left wondering exactly what the purpose of Verdana Pro is. It
    seems to very much be a reworking. It's a new family based upon and strongly resembling
    the old.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt <em>is</em> a reworking. It\u2019s not a \u201Cnew\u201D
    family; it\u2019s an <em>expanded</em> family. Not \u201Cstrongly resembling\u201D
    the old, <em>built upon</em> the old. \r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell, the four original
    styles remain essentially unchanged (weight, proportion, shape) except for the
    addition of glyphs, kerning, and OT features.\r\n\r\nMuch of the intention is
    outlined in Ascender\u2019s press release announcing the project (you may need
    to filter the PR-speak): \r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2009-09-08/\r\n\r\n(Incidentally,
    the expansion was undertaken in advance of the Ikea flap. That news story just
    prompted the announcement, not the development.)\r\n\r\nAnswers to your other
    questions will probably have to wait. I\u2019m not involved in the brief or the
    development or the licensing. I\u2019m just privy to Betas in order to develop
    specimens for FB."
  created: '2010-01-24 13:51:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, and: what about the hinting now, and the screen rendering?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:58:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kent,\r\n\r\nThanks for the explanation of what, it seems, Verdana Pro is.
    What it eventually does, we'll see, I guess. (I don't think I'll be springing
    for it, just to compare.)\r\n\r\n@davidberlow\r\n\r\nBrand extensions almost never
    work out. If anything, they almost always end up diluting the brand image of the
    original in the minds of users.\r\nAt least that what I think Ch&eacute; Guevara
    would have said.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-25 17:01:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>At least that what I think Ch\xE9 Guevara would have said.</em>\r\n\r\nExtending
    the Cuba brand to Bolivia certainly didn't work out."
  created: '2010-01-25 17:08:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\nAu contraire. There was no brand extension, they just introduced
    in a new locale. True, it didn't do too well, but it sold more Ch&eacute; posters
    than ever before. And look what it did for Mandy Patinkin's career just a few
    years later!\r\nPolitical failure, followed by commercial success on Broadway.
    Go figure.\r\n(I could try to run with a comic setup like that, but let's let
    it go...)\r\n\r\nThere is an interesting piece on the Harvard Business Review
    blog that I think may hold some insights for the business of fonts in the years
    to come:\r\n<a href=\"http://blogs.hbr.org/research/2010/01/the-itunes-effect-and-the-futu.html\">The
    iTunes Effect and the Future of Content</a>\r\nAnd it relates to the discussion
    about weights on this thread.\r\nMark Jamra of Type Culture and I were talking
    at TypeCon. A couple of months before that I had bought a single weight of a particular
    font from Type Culture. He told me that it piqued his curiosity because it was
    unusual. The usual thing was for somebody to buy a complete family.\r\nNow, I'm
    basically interested in using fonts within browsers, so what the heck am I going
    to do with all those weights? Hell, with some fonts, I even like the browser-synthesized
    italic better than I do the created one.\r\nAnyway, as time goes on, expect to
    sell more singles and less albums. Seems to be a trend.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 16:47:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Brand extensions almost never work out. \r\n\r\nOh. Well, maybe... you'll
    know what I'm talking about later, as usual.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:42:40'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Regarding the price I think it's reasonable. Isn't a Font Bureau font usually
    selling for $40? Well 20*40=800. The prices announced here for the whole family
    are still a considerable discount, consistent with Font Bureau pricing. Thing
    is, even if they made the whole package for $80 no one is gonna buy it unless
    they need it! You don't go below a certain price. That will only lower the value
    of the product, that's a golden rule in retail :D\r\n\r\nI think it makes perfect
    sense to be expanding the Classic Internet Headline Typefaces now that services
    like Typekit are about to take off. \r\nAbout to! A big problem is still the fact
    that most computers connected to the internet don't have an effective anti-aliasing
    engine (i.e. Windows XP: Although ClearType\x8D (Microsoft's Anti-Aliasing) can
    be voluntarily turned on and will make Headline typography look considerably nicer,
    you get things like radio buttons malfunctioning and other bugs) but I think that
    under the rough condition of aliased type, Verdana Condensed is likely to look
    less ugly than FF Dax or other 'print typefaces'. This is why that's a great time
    to be releasing this type family.\r\n\r\nDavid Said:\r\n<cite>The issue is, that
    there is no label in InDEsign for what the default figures actually are, the user
    will have to know.</cite>\r\nThat should be okay this is the case for all fonts
    right now, isn't it?"
  created: '2010-01-28 16:26:22'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Verdana\r\nTahoma (Verdana Condensed)\r\nNina (Verdana Compresed)\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/search/name%3Atahoma+OR+name%3Averdana+OR+name%3Anina+OR+foundry%3Aascender/fonts/"
  created: '2010-02-01 08:06:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Thing is, even if they made the whole package for $80 no one is gonna buy
    it unless they need it! \r\n\r\nWow, now there's a concept. \r\n\r\n>That should
    be okay this is the case for all fonts right now, isn't it?\r\n\r\nYa, but I'm
    a big fan of \"okay is not OK.\" There should be <em>some way </em> of indicating
    to the user what kind of figures the defaults are. \r\n\r\n>Oh, and: what about
    the hinting now, and the screen rendering?\r\n\r\nVerdanas place as a good rendering
    screen font is not dependent on hinting, (thank goodness). \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-01 12:26:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Verdana\r\n>Tahoma (Verdana Condensed)\r\n>Nina (Verdana Compresed)\r\n\r\nNot
    really - The main difference between Verdana and Tahoma is the space between the
    letters. Nina is a narrower variant. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 14:59:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Plus Tahoma came first.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 15:37:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@ PabloImpallari \r\n\r\nAll three of those are very explicitly designed
    for low resolution bitmap display, for which they are fabulous, but NOT for \"display\"
    display. E.G., headlines."
  created: '2010-02-01 18:33:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnnydib\r\n\r\n<em>I think it makes perfect sense to be expanding the
    Classic Internet Headline Typefaces now that services like Typekit are about to
    take off.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't know what \"take off\" means. But I'm not getting
    the relevancy. Is this set going be offered through Typekit?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 18:35:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I've wondered about something: The Bolds of the MS Core Fonts\r\nwere
    really dark because of the hinting practicalities, right? So how\r\ndid Trebuchet
    get away with having a \"normal\" Bold?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 18:27:41'
- author:
    name: Acreo Aeneas
    picture: 119157
  body: Hmmm...bold, semi, and light look really tasty!  Wonder how much just those
    three will cost eventually.
  created: '2010-02-05 18:59:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> So how did Trebuchet get away with having a \"normal\" Bold?\r\n\r\nVinnie
    could probably answer that. My guess - hints. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 22:39:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So Trebuchet has much heavier hinting than the others?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 22:43:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The Bolds of the MS Core Fonts were really dark because of the hinting practicalities,
    right? \r\n\r\nWhat?\r\n\r\n>Vinnie could probably answer that. My guess - hints.\r\n\r\nWhat?\r\n\r\n>So
    Trebuchet has much heavier hinting than the others?\r\n\r\nWHAT!?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 12:45:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hrant observed that Treb bold is less bold than Verdana bold. However it
    sticks with two pixel stems through the same range of text sizes. \r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/trebudana_4744.JPG]\r\n\r\nMy
    'splantion was a guess. Vinnie would be the best person to ask."
  created: '2010-02-08 22:48:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Treb bold is less bold than Verdana bold.\r\n\r\nExactly. I'm talking about
    the outlines. And since the bitmaps\r\nbehave comparably, I'm wondering how Trebuchet
    \"got away\"\r\nwith having a \"normal\" Bold.\r\n\r\nThe reason different hinting
    seems like a plausible explanation\r\nis that Verdana's Bold is too dark in order
    to make the hinting\r\neasier, right? At least that's what I remember reading
    back in\r\nthe day - and it makes sense, doesn't it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 01:43:05'
date: '2010-01-20 17:36:43'
node_type: forum
title: Verdana Pro on its way

---
