---
author:
  name: Sindre
  picture: 116197
body: "The best gift I got for Christmas was a book about the design of the Norwegian
  telephone box (1933). So I got inspired, and drew some glyphs, and all of a sudden
  I had a whole alphabet. I didn't look at the telephone box lettering while I drew,
  I wanted to make letters resembling the Art Deco style there still were a lot of
  traces left of in Norway until the 80s (now, there's only a few phone boxes and
  some street signs left), without making a derivative of anything. \r\n\r\nI've made
  some deliberately na\xEFve old-school choices, this is not a polished, modern take
  on a geometric sans serif. \r\n\r\nI have a bold (or rather an extra bold) weight
  half-drawn as well, and I think that's going to be the whole type family. I need
  to get something finished. All my former attempts have grown too large too soon,
  this is going to be my first finished project. But I need your help. Any kind of
  criticism is very, very welcome! \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tlf_5915.png]\r\n\r\nFor
  extended character set, see the pdf."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This has a very nice degree of flavor.\r\nAnd although I don't usually like
    filled-in corners, here it works!\r\n\r\nI would say that:\r\n- The \"Q\" needs
    modulation in the tail join.\r\n- The \"a\" is too... continental. Try a Kabel
    form.\r\n- The bottom half of the \"s\" is malformed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-20 18:30:32'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Hrant! \r\n\r\nYou're definitely right about the \"a\", it looks
    like the afterthought it is. Originally I had a one storey-\"a\", but that is
    boring (and illegible, and makes the \"\xE6\" impossible). It didn't feel right,
    but I didn't know what I was looking for. Thanks for telling me. The Q is stolen
    from Jakob Erbar's sadly forgotten geometric (much used in the 30s up here), and
    you're right, it doesn't work. I'll think of something else. Those s-es are the
    most difficult glyphs I've <em>ever</em> drawn. The simplest shapes are the hardest.
    I'll try and fix it. "
  created: '2010-01-20 19:18:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "This any better? New \"a\", reshaped \"s\", modulated \"Q\" (while maintaining
    the shape, I think I misunderstood your advice.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/51_4465.png]"
  created: '2010-01-20 20:43:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Cool project, and I'm right with you on feeling pressed to finish something
    a bit simpler.\r\n\r\nIn a way this is quite a difficult design to critique, since
    almost anything criticizable is equally likely an error or part of the deliberate
    naivete!\r\n\r\nI definitely agree on the /a/.\r\n\r\nI think sixes and nines
    may be *too* constructed looking, in their lack of tapering at the join and their
    sudden changeover from circle to line. Fours might need some more overshoot up
    top.\r\n\r\nBDPR also have too hard of a break from straight to round on the outside
    contours.\r\n\r\nDid you consider a counter on the R that was open at the bottom?
    That'd be another place where that acute angle could show up.\r\n\r\nDid you consider
    a chevron-style structure for /K/ (and, I suppose, for /k/)? That might go with
    the /M/ well.\r\n\r\nThe diagonal of /N/ looks thin to me.\r\n\r\nI wonder if
    the /G/ is a stylistic misfit in the way the /a/ is. Did you try any versions
    with crossbars? Euro also feels rather out of place.\r\n\r\nThat sliced off /t/
    seems awfully arbitrary in a font where every other terminal hews to horizontal
    or vertical. Reminds me of Arial, too. :-( \r\n\r\nThe spacing seems way too tight
    in the text setting, given the boldness, lack of contrast, and small x-height.
    I'm sure you haven't done much work with spacing at this stage, but I think it
    would be good to be able to determine fairly soon how legitimate the hopes of
    making this a font for running text are - and to judge that it needs some breathing
    room. \r\n\r\nThis reminds me not only of Neutraface but even more of Tempo. [[http://typophile.com/node/10490|Here's]]
    one of several interesting Typophile threads on the latter."
  created: '2010-01-20 20:43:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Seriously. Impressive.\r\nLet me come back to this in a day or two.\r\nAnd,
    BTW, I also long to finish something ;)"
  created: '2010-01-20 22:29:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Very very cool. I was going to say it over in the other thread too. I don't
    really have enough time to give it a thorough look right now :-\\ but just wanted
    to stop by and say that this is niiice.\r\nJust 2 spontaneous things:\r\nIs it
    intentional that the \"D\" is that narrow compared to \"C\" and \"G\"?\r\nAnd
    the new \"a\" rocks! The old one was a bit Frutigerish.\r\nI'll be back :-)"
  created: '2010-01-20 22:35:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thumbs up on the new /a/ and /s/!
  created: '2010-01-21 05:09:48'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, everyone! \r\n\r\nNina, the narrow \"D\" was a subconscious decision,
    I think. I've widened it slightly, just for you. (Er, and because it looks better.)
    Thanks for good-mouthing the \"a\". I like it too. It gives the lower case a much
    stronger identity, I think. Now the \"g\" and \"a\" are better friends, too. \r\n\r\nCraig,
    I've subtly softened \"69\", and made the \"4\" even taller. Darn, I love drawing
    spiky glyphs! And I've fought with the BDPR curves quite a bit. These shapes are
    always difficult for me, too tight, they get an undesirable diamond shape with
    ugly transitions from the lines, too soft, they look squarish. But I've finally
    learnt too use points at approximately 45 degrees in addition to extrema points,
    and that makes the transitions from the lines better, at least. Any better now?\r\n\r\nChevron
    kays I've tried twice, just can't make them work. Perhaps I'll try again. \r\n\r\nI've
    strengthened the \"N\" diagonal slightly, and widened the letter half a hair.
    But this is one of the letters I really want a little \"wrong\". \r\n\r\nGee,
    I didn't know Tempo once was a proper typeface, I only knew those nondescript
    condensed bolds Adobe sell. Thanks for bringing it to my attention, it's great!
    I think Neutraface is but a parody, by the way. Some may say the same thing about
    my typeface. Well, at least it's parody that I <em>like</em>.\r\n\r\nThe \"G\",
    yes, that's a misfit. But I really like it. Georg Fredrik Fasting, the architect
    of the Norwegian telephone box, drew \"G\"s like that. On an ideological level,
    there's no other remnant* of the pen in this typeface, why use one here? But of
    course, it looks weird. I've thought a lot about it, too. \r\n\r\n* Except for
    the slanted \"t\" top. That's an influence from the old Norwegian street signs,
    and I just dig it. It should remind you of Erbar, not Arial.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/52_4777.png]"
  created: '2010-01-21 05:22:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '... did I just make the "B" top half and "R" too square?'
  created: '2010-01-21 05:39:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>... did I just make the \"B\" top half and \"R\" too square?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think maybe so.\r\n\r\n<em>I've strengthened the \"N\" diagonal slightly, and
    widened the letter half a hair. But this is one of the letters I really want a
    little \"wrong\".</em>\r\n\r\nI think you could go still further and not threaten
    its \"wrongness\"! ;-)\r\n\r\nYou may want to narrow /e/'s crossbar a touch."
  created: '2010-01-21 14:17:18'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "BTW this is roughly what I meant about the possibility for /R/:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/52_4777_5370.gif]"
  created: '2010-01-21 14:29:27'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: Very nice. However, I would find it more useful if there were alternate E,
    F and H's available, with vertically centred crossbars, as well as the low slung
    ones. And maybe high crossbars too.
  created: '2010-01-21 17:08:33'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, guys!\r\n\r\nCurves are difficult, and the simpler the shape, the
    more difficult they are. New BPRD here. And Craig, here's your conventional \"G\",
    too. And a wider N. There's now also quite a bit of optical tweaking in most of
    the glyphs shown here.\r\n\r\nAbout your \"R\" suggestion: I actually tried this
    twice early in the process, and while I dig this shape, it reminds me very much
    of (the original) AvantGarde and Herb Lubalin and the 70s, and I discarded it
    because it felt out of place. Did that R shape exist earlier? I'd love to see
    an example of that. \r\n\r\nJonathan, you're right about that, but you see, I
    don't want to make another Futura. I want this to be quirky. The letters that
    started it were TELEFON (see photograph in the specimen). Maybe I'll make more
    conventional alternates later, but that'll have to wait. \r\n\r\nAbout the spacing:
    Perhaps this is a display typeface, I really don't know yet. But if it is, the
    spacing is quite OK now (though crude) now, isn't it?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/56_6618.png]"
  created: '2010-01-22 00:08:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/node/3673|Tempo]] had that kind of R! Or near it.
    With a little more intersection than my mockup, which steers it away from your
    legitimate Lubalin concern.\r\n\r\nI gotta say, I like the crossbar G.\r\n\r\nCurves
    looking better!"
  created: '2010-01-22 01:52:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "The bolder weights of Dwiggins's Metro #2 also suggest that kind of R structure.
    \r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/metro-2/"
  created: '2010-01-22 02:20:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Just saw this on our dining room table - do you know what font this sans
    is?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jessica-biel-vogue-february-2010-cover_4313.jpg]"
  created: '2010-01-22 03:50:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Looking great, Sindre. I'm looking forward to our next type&beer convention
    at Pers.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R_4257.png]? \r\n\r\nMight
    be choking the na\xEFve spirit \u2026"
  created: '2010-01-22 10:04:01'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Satyagraha, I understand your concept and wasn't suggesting that you have
    vertically centred crossbars for the default glyphs.\r\n\r\nI've only just seen
    the telefonkiosk photo in the PDF, and so, as you say ...\r\n\r\n<em>\"I want
    this to be quirky.\"</em>\r\n\r\n... you should include that splendid O, with
    the three stencil splits, as an alternate glyph. Maybe even create a stenciled
    version of the typeface and name it Telefon Kiosk / Kiosker / Kiosken.\r\n\r\nOr
    you could just include alternate stencil glyphs within the standard OTFont, but
    only for the characters that would need a stencil form for kiosk application."
  created: '2010-01-22 21:01:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/58_4865.png]\r\n\r\nI've done some more
    work on the \"R\", here are three candidates. The first one is wider, as per Frode's
    suggestion, the middle one is a slightly reworked version of the old one, the
    third one is an interpretation of Craig's suggested R (it took me quite a while
    to understand that shape, thanks for helping enlighten me), which I think probably
    is my favourite at the moment. What do you think?\r\n\r\nStrange how defining
    the upper case R is! These three settings makes the word look like set in different
    typefaces, almost.  \r\n\r\nI've no idea what the typeface of that Vogue cover
    is (I almost thought it was a mock-up, by the way, as all the headlines are so
    stereotypically women's magazine that it is laughable. \"Love, sex and what to
    wear\", isn't that the essence of all women's magazine headlines?). This is a
    very good illustration of what Jan Tschichold called \"a thicket of letters\",
    by the way. Thanks for scanning and uploading. \r\n\r\nI've been wondering about
    the crossbar \"G\" (I now think that one has to be the definite version ...),
    is the crossbar's length and height right? Is it a problem that it is only slightly
    higher than the \"E\" and \"F\" crossbar? Should I raise and/or lengthen it? (Am
    I getting type blind already?) \r\n\r\nThanks, Frode, and so do I. Type and craft
    beer are amongst the nicest of man's inventions, and they should indeed be combined.
    \r\n\r\nJonathan, that is a splendid idea, in fact, I thought of it when I started
    drawing, and then forgot. I'll go for a full stencil font instead of alternate
    glyphs, I think, but, as you suggest, only make cuts in the letters that needs
    them to stay together. This is going to be fun!   "
  created: '2010-01-22 22:55:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "There's no question in my mind #3 is the best fit for the face.\r\nI was
    too lazy to scan - I found that cover with a web search. (A scan would've come
    out clearer!) I've submitted it to the Type ID board. http://typophile.com/node/66541\r\nI'm
    not sure about your questions on the G - I'd have to see how those options look.\r\nI
    like the stencil idea too!"
  created: '2010-01-22 23:23:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Revised upper case. New \"K\", as suggested by Craig (does it work?), slightly
    fatter horizontals on EFLT, a little tweaking on \"R\", a little wider \"N\".
    Does the \"G\" crossbar look to thick compared to EFH's?  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/60_6000.png]"
  created: '2010-01-23 01:16:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Bear with me, I'm not having much time currently. This is looking really
    great and I'm struggling to find anything to crit! Well done on making it work
    so well. Those curves are hard. \r\n\r\nI think the latest D is still a bit narrow,
    or perhaps just the curve is light at 2 and 5 o'clock?\r\n\r\nCrossbar of G: to
    me it looks a smidge too low, like it's trying to be the same as EFH but realised
    it can't quite get there. \r\n\r\n2 looks like the bottom has slid left and the
    top right, slightly.\r\n\r\n5 looks a little heavy on the left stem."
  created: '2010-01-23 01:46:02'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: Nice work, Sindre. Is it just me, or does the lower bar in F and the middle
    bar in E extend just slightly too much to the right?
  created: '2010-01-23 16:27:31'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "When extending the leg of the R, be careful to test all combinations to balance
    spacing with pleasing forms (I'm the first to admire a wide legged R). However,
    try CRAWDAD STRAW RANDY CRAYON as well as words like TROUBLE CURVY (RIVERDAN)
    etc. RO RY RA are hard to consistently space with a wide leg, unless you there
    is a lot of letterspacing.\r\n\r\nFrom memory, I think the Vogue is James Montalbano's
    work but I might be confusing with Vanity Fair. Anyways, he's done a custom geometric
    fashion sans somewhat similar to this.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2010-01-24 05:48:53'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "What is your method for filing the corners? Lately I have found this effect
    very pleasing, perhaps too much time looking at vector perfect corners cuts into
    the eyes.\r\n\r\nI'd be careful not to lose the dimensional quirks through iteration.\r\n<em>S</em>
    is a bit depressed at the base IMHO and the outlines seem shaky compared to the
    otherwise smooth alphabet.\r\nI keep rotating S as I am drawing, otherwise I tend
    to run out of space constructing the lower curve.\r\n(This sounds like a contradiction
    \u2013 what I mean is keep the proportional quirks, but execute smoothly. Also,
    please take my comments lightly as I am very pleased by this design and I don't
    wish to detract or patronise.)"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:22:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I assume you mean filling and not filing. In fact I don't have a method for
    the former because I tend to do the latter! :-)  And for that I actually do have
    a method: http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:53:19'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Hrant, you got me. I actually meant filing, though I <em>did</em> misread
    your post. By 'filing corners' I meant beveling, for example P22 Johnston. The
    corners appear soft to me, 1px short of a corner, is this just antialiasing/artefact?
    \r\nI'm probably going blind. Sorry for misleading anyone.\r\n\r\nThe trapping
    flower is amazing, I don't suppose you have any other secrets you would like to
    disclose? Thanks."
  created: '2010-01-24 17:11:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, OK. Yes, it does have rounded corners. BTW, the Flower can be used for
    making those too, as well as shearing corners. And making thorns (really pointy
    corners).\r\n\r\nI'm often fast and loose with my secrets, although I tend to
    guard other people's secrets like an Anatolian Mastiff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 18:46:45'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you for all your comments and suggestions! I haven't had time for type
    drawing this weekend, so I'll just comment now and upload images and stuff later.
    \r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words, Ben. You're probably right about the \"D\".
    It needs to be narrow, I think, but a few more units of width and some more meat
    in the curves will make it right. Your comment on the \"G\" confirms my own concerns
    about that glyph. Consider \"2\" and \"5\" fixed.\r\n\r\nThanks, Elias, and no,
    it's not just you, the middle bars of E and especially F are too long, but I think
    they really have to be. Their eccentricity sort of defines the whole typeface.
    Then again, someone good once said \"kill your favourite glyph\" or something
    like that. I'll have to think about it. \r\n\r\nThanks for your advice, Randy.
    I've decided on the \"R\" now, and your spacing words will come in handy.    \r\n\r\nAndrew,
    the corners are both filled and filed, and my method is quite straightforward.
    For this typeface, I made 10x10 bevels, and then I convert the sharp points to
    curved ones. I probably could use some script, but I prefer doing it by hand.
    Quite a lot of work (and lots of copy and paste), but that's okay with me. I like
    fiddling. \r\n\r\nYou're right about the \"S\", it will be fixed. And thanks for
    your \"S\"-making advice."
  created: '2010-01-25 03:35:00'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Here's a closeup showing the inside and outside smoothing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/61_3607.png]"
  created: '2010-01-25 03:40:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '(Just to second elias (no relation!)) I think you could move the middle E
    crossbar in just a touch more and maintain its "too long" eccentricity. '
  created: '2010-01-25 05:15:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "\"E\" and \"F\" crossbars shorter, \"F\" a little narrowed. \"S\" reworked\",
    \"D\" slightly wider and changed curves.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/62_5001.png]\r\n\r\n\"2\"
    and \"5\" changed \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/64_6457.png]\r\n\r\nTaller
    \"G\" crossbar.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/63_4975.png]\r\n\r\nChevron
    kays.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/65_4925.png]"
  created: '2010-01-25 06:08:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Try making the top of the \"a\" much shorter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-25 06:44:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Much shorter \"a\" top. That made it necessary to do something to the \"g\"
    as well. Better?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/66_3485.png]"
  created: '2010-01-25 19:29:54'
- author:
    name: Yorel
    picture: 118985
  body: "Great font! I think I found the original one.\r\n\r\nhttp://3.bp.blogspot.com/_yZmyKiWCBwU/SkJC1Qn9q7I/AAAAAAAAAJ0/GKzZut-yQWU/s1600-h/FA-3-BW100Kodak-oslo09.21.jpg"
  created: '2010-01-27 14:46:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think the Kake /a/ fits the character of the font better. Maybe I see the
    \"too long\" hood as akin to the \"too long\" /E/ crossbar. And I'd keep the longer
    /g/ tail, too. But I can see the new ones working, too; they're nice letters.\r\nI
    like the chevron /K/k/!"
  created: '2010-01-27 15:21:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Yorel. Yes, that's the Norwegian telephone box, outside the traditional
    Freia chocolate factory in Oslo. But those are the second generation letters,
    the original ones were more like mine, with a spiky and narrow \"N\" and more
    extreme \"E\"s and \"F\". I'll upload a scan from the book later, as there seems
    to be none of the original letter phone boxes left in the wild. \r\n\r\nThanks,
    Craig. I'm very unsure about the \"a\" and the \"g\" at the moment, I think I
    like both versions. Perhaps a compromise is the solution. Can't draw now, will
    upload later. "
  created: '2010-01-27 19:06:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Complete lower case. \"a\" and \"g\" almost at old length, but not quite.
    New \"r\", \"j\" and \"f\", (curved finials ... is that the right word?), slightly
    more weight on the \"z\" diagonal. Slightly shallower descenders. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/67_5536.png]"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:57:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking great. IKEA should've waited on their rebranding font choice! :-)\r\n\r\n/v/
    looks both light and insufficiently overshot on the baseline to me.\r\n\r\nTell
    me what's guiding your extender length decisions. I'm surprised you're pulling
    up the descenders with such (appealingly) high ascenders. \r\n\r\nI especially
    like the /n/, the /i/, the /f/, and the /z/. That question mark strikes me as
    too close to Futura (Telefon's got its own quirks, it doesn't need to copy Renner's!).\r\n\r\nThe
    /y/ feels like it's falling rightward, and the intersection seems high relative
    to the baseline to my eyes. Perhaps just shifting the long stroke's bottom points
    rightward while retaining the angle of the short stroke would solve both issues.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if all of your vertical strokes should be thinned the tiniest bit. Looking
    at \"squaw,\" the /q/'s stem seems darker than the rest; and the vertical-dominated
    \"litt\" is the darkest word of all. (Some of this could be rasterization...)"
  created: '2010-01-27 23:15:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "My biggest issue with this design, is the one letter devoted the most attention
    here: \u201Ca\u201D. It might fit historically, but I think it would keep me from
    using Telefon in any serious context. The echoed short curve from \u201Ca\u201D
    in \u201Cg\u201D might work. \r\n\r\nCan we see the \u201CR\u201D in context?
    I didn\u2019t like it at first, but it\u2019s growing on me.\r\n\r\nBtw, Sindre:
    I think \u201Cc\u201D might need a few units nudging to the left on the outer
    curve (top and bottom left).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 13:19:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I agree about 'a', I think with this design it is OK to embrace anachronisms.
  created: '2010-01-28 21:56:57'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello again, Sindre-\r\n\r\nI went through your posts, and 'a' does need
    some work still (you decided to go with two-storey after all [heh]), and '?' is
    pretty lopsided. The stresses seem to be going the wrong way. Also some of the
    smooth corners on counters seem softer than outside, like in 'A'. That seems odd
    to me. Try to keep them is scale. And 'S' and 's' have bumps.\r\n\r\nOverall look
    of the font is really good."
  created: '2010-01-28 22:12:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Craig, you're right about the vertical weight. I've now sliced a little off
    each stem, both cases, and I think that procedure have made for a better overall
    balance. I shortened the descenders because of that blasted \"g\", I couldn't
    make it deep enough without making a too large aperture. But perhaps it works
    now, the descenders are at their original depth again. I've tried to repair the
    \"y\", and I've fattened and tweaked the \"v\" a bit. \r\n\r\nFrode, what kind
    of \"a\" would you prefer? I'm going to have a one-storey one as one of few alternate
    characters. Personally, I dig the current \"a\". You were right about the \"c\",
    I've fixed it.  \r\n\r\nTomi, those S-es are difficult. I'm a beginner at vector
    drawing, you see (hadn't drawn a serious Bezier curve till october 2008), and
    I honestly can't see those bumps, but I've tried to make the curves as smooth
    as I can now. Is it better? I would be grateful if you could point out the faults,
    if they're still there. \r\n\r\nNew question mark. This is still unpolished, do
    you think this shape could work?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/70_4624.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/71_4330.png]"
  created: '2010-01-30 14:40:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I think the bowl might be to big. Compared with \u201Ce\u201D, the whitespace
    balance is very differently distributed. The joins\u2014bowl to stem\u2014are
    much thinner than those of, for example, \u201Cb\u201D, especially the lower join.
    The horizontal counter in the bowl lacks a clear connection the the other letters.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not quite sure what other kind of \u201Ca\u201D-options I would prefer."
  created: '2010-01-30 14:58:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '* horizontal OVAL counter'
  created: '2010-01-30 15:01:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Your tweaks look good.\r\n\r\nOn the question mark, try making the top shape
    not come down as far, and enlarging the period."
  created: '2010-01-30 15:37:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What, no Koch \"g\"?  :-)\r\n\r\nThe \"r\" and \"?\" have the same problem
    the \"a\" used to have.\r\n\r\nTry giving the \"S\" a smaller head.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 15:42:37'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "New \"S\", \"r\", \"a\" and \"?\", as per suggestions. I'm not leaving that
    \"a\" shape. No Koch \"g\", though. Now or ever. I'm not quite sure I understand
    your criticism of \"r\" and \"?\", Hrant. Too continental? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/73_4597.png]"
  created: '2010-02-01 01:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good improvements.\r\n\r\nThe \"r\" was too mannered before; the new one\r\nis
    better, but I might taper the join even less.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 06:16:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "FWIW, I think I prefer the previous /S/, and that elephant-trunky question
    mark still doesn't do it for me. Did you try a horizontal shear to the main stroke
    at the bottom?\r\nI think that /a/ looks great."
  created: '2010-02-01 13:15:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I agree about the \"S\". The new one creates holes in the text, too. \r\n\r\nI've
    done a lot of work on spacing and diacritics, and needed to do something else
    this evening. So I started drawing fat glyphs, something I've never done before.
    This is a very quick draft of an extra bold or black weight for Telefon. Is this
    approach right? Or does it look like a parody of Benton's Eagle? How do I solve
    the \"G\"? Is the tittle way, way too big? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/74_6148.png]"
  created: '2010-02-01 21:54:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Hold it. That's no good. This is much better.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/75_5600.png]"
  created: '2010-02-01 23:47:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like it!\r\n\r\nI think the minuscule letters with round counters get too
    dark /b/d/g/o/p/q/. /O/ and /Q/ also might need bigger counters.\r\nThat /c/ is
    narrow but I'm not sure if/how to correct it.\r\nPretty nice job getting those
    vertically dense glyphs to work in such a heavy weight, /a/ and /s/ especially.\r\nI
    think the tittles are fine.\r\n/G/ is tough but you might be close already with
    what you have (I like it better than the Eagle solution, anyway)."
  created: '2010-02-01 23:57:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Looks like I addressed your darkness concern while you were writing. I saw
    it just after uploading the first sample. I will give the upper case the same
    treatment.\r\n\r\nYes, that Eagle \"G\" is a lazy solution. Looks like I have
    to make \"G\" crossbarless, now I understand the reason for the Erbar \"G\". \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 00:03:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh yummy! This is very nice work Sindre.\r\nI'm just passing by and off to
    bed, but can't help noting a few spontaneous impressions:\r\n- Agree that curvy
    caps need more white. \r\n- Tail on bold \"Q\" seems shy. I'd at least make it
    longer.\r\n- Not sure about the terminals/counters on the bold \"s\", but I don't
    have an alternate idea either (helpful eh!).\r\n- I *love* the \"f\"!\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Eagle's \"G\" has gotten protests from all the clients I proposed the font to.
    It's too much like a \"C\". Your form seems a much better solution, although it
    seems a bit imbalanced to my eye (but maybe it's mostly the weight right now)."
  created: '2010-02-02 00:24:08'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I will post a new uppercase tomorrow, as it is indeed well past bedtime.
    \r\n\r\nI was very uncertain about this, I've never drawn such weighty glyphs
    (not entirely true, I drew a rudimentary bold for the other sans I'm working on,
    but that's a grotesque, which is much easier), and it's been a steep (and darn
    fast) learning curve. Encouraging words means a lot. Thanks a lot, Craig and Nina.\r\n\r\nYes,
    that \"s\" is a bit awkward, it has to carry a lot of weight, and I found that
    the 45 degrees cut of the medium weight was impossible. So I made it 22.5 (echoed
    in the unpopular slanted \"t\" top. Perhaps I should try 30 degrees. "
  created: '2010-02-02 00:48:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Unpopular really? Dunno, I think the "t" is quite nice.
  created: '2010-02-02 07:51:32'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: So do I. But someone said it reminded him of Arial's "t". While the inspiration
    for that glyph is of course [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/29563529@N07/2767020047|Oslo's
    old street signs]].
  created: '2010-02-02 08:18:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I have some sweet pictures lying around of those signs. There are more funky
    stuff going on than one might think, at least outside the city centre.
  created: '2010-02-02 08:33:47'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I would love to see those! '
  created: '2010-02-02 08:36:47'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: Oh, this project is really, really nice. I love it.
  created: '2010-02-02 11:38:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Daniele. \r\n\r\nHere's a black \"G\" with crossbar. Can this
    possibly work? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/76_6715.png]"
  created: '2010-02-02 11:43:17'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I just saw your Grotesque on flickr, by the way. It's great! Have you posted
    it for critique here on Typophile?\r\n\r\nEdit: I just discovered you did so a
    few minutes ago. I'll have a good look at it."
  created: '2010-02-02 11:50:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That /G/ is great!
  created: '2010-02-02 13:17:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Craig. I thought it was perhaps a little uneven, so I changed it
    a bit. I've also adjusted the horizontal placements of these glyphs. \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/77_6282.png]"
  created: '2010-02-02 13:28:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Great stuff.
  created: '2010-02-02 13:53:00'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo-400_3600.JPG.jpeg]\r\n\r\nAlways
    liked this logo, the letter combination above reminded me. The weight is great."
  created: '2010-02-04 16:13:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "That's a good observation, Andrew. My father was an avid amateur photographer
    when I was a child, that logo may have been a subconscious inspiration.\r\n\r\nBlack
    almost done now, I'll post a new pdf in a day or two. But I need some help on
    the numerals. Here's a first draft (upper case). Nos. \"4\" and \"5\" are very
    difficult to get right, and I'm quite unsure about the rest of them too. Any help
    greatly appreciated.   \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/num1_3530.png]"
  created: '2010-02-06 22:27:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The curle terminal on five doesn\u2019t really fit all that well. Four need
    some more weight on the diagonal. I would also move the crossbar up. You\u2019ll
    have to watch the notan, though. Perhaps you should consider a different kind
    of four? I really like seven!"
  created: '2010-02-06 22:49:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "4- Maintaining that triagularity at that weight is quite the challenge!\r\nNot
    that it would work for Telefon (which is made up of strokes rather than shapes),
    but take a look at what Mark S. did with the heavy weights of Mostra: he moved
    the counter down and over, heedless of the alignment with the rest:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4194.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-06 23:00:08'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Frode, you're right. Black, pointed \"4\" and \"5\" in this style can't be
    done. Jakob Erbar couldn't do it. The guy who designed the heaviest Futura weights
    (can't remember his name, and too tired to look it up) couldn't do it. But I want
    to challenge the impossible. \r\n\r\nThat's great advice, Craig! Thanks a lot.
    I've already done some (failed) experiments in that direction, and will continue
    to do so. Tomorrow. "
  created: '2010-02-06 23:13:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Is this on the brink of actually working? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/num2_5468.png]"
  created: '2010-02-07 10:48:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "How funny, I also made the Ilford connection!\r\nThese latest numerals look
    splendid. Something about the zero is especialy juicy. I love the pointy junctions
    on 7 and 4, and though the counter of the 4 makes me wonder, I think it's a valid
    solution. I would like the diagonal to have more weight, but I also would like
    it to retain those points \u2014 if you moved the counter down slightly, could
    the arm have some weight taken off the top? You know, also I think the weight
    of the stem at the bottom could be reduced without drawing attention. Your 1 is
    delicious."
  created: '2010-02-07 12:14:16'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks, Ben! I think the cold I'm suffering from (weird thing, the moment
    the temperature after a month rises from -20 to -5, everyone gets a cold) has
    zonked out the language centre of my brain, I had to read your suggestion several
    times to understand it. Well, here's a new \"4\". \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1947_3886.png]"
  created: '2010-02-07 13:07:24'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "...yes rereading that post it is confusing. Sorry I should read what I've
    written before posting ;)\r\n\r\nHow does the apex of A compare to the points
    on the new 4?"
  created: '2010-02-07 13:22:15'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A4_6561.png]'
  created: '2010-02-07 13:37:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Looking great!
  created: '2010-02-07 15:15:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, I think that works. What next? ;)
  created: '2010-02-07 16:50:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thanks! The remaining important glyphs are section sign and eth. Not looking
    forward to drawing those guys. '
  created: '2010-02-07 16:55:53'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Arr, yes, those two are evil at the best of times. I don't have a clue how
    you'd draw black geometric versions. Good luck.
  created: '2010-02-07 18:33:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I've attached a new pdf showing the present state of Telefon Black. (I'm
    having doubts about the name, by the way. What do you think?) \r\n\r\nI've decided
    to finish all weights with a limited character set (237 glyphs), and add full
    support for Latin Extended A (and a selected few from Extended B), when everything
    is finished and working.\r\n\r\nAny criticism as always very welcome!"
  created: '2010-02-11 10:50:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Those caps are JUICY! A couple of quick observations:\r\nComma is a lot smaller
    than quotes, why?\r\n\xA3 looks light? It might not need to be the exact same
    weight as L, but it could be closer.\r\n(I think I'm a bit obsessive about the
    \xA3 sign however.)\r\nDid I miss the section sign?\r\n3 looks heavier on the
    bottom than on top. \r\nGrave and acute look a bit too centred, I can't remember
    the recommended ratio of what goes where above the centre line but the small end
    should be nearer the centre.\r\n\r\nAll in all, this is looking terrific. Great
    work Sindre."
  created: '2010-02-11 13:52:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Could the cedilla be fattened?\r\nBendy's right about the accent placement.\r\n@
    looks cramped in its circle.\r\npercent and perthousand look quite roomy compared
    to everything else.\r\nI love the question and exclamation and quotation marks.\r\nYen's
    top bar runs into the Y's arms a bit too much - could you lower the bars a bit
    to let some space in there?\r\nDollar looks like it leans right a touch.\r\n/X/
    may be a bit dark.\r\n/M/ looks a little wide but I'm not sure if that's solvable
    while preserving the structure. /W/ too?\r\nGreat /R/!\r\nWeight on /3/'s bowl
    strokes isn't as even as it should be - looks like it gets cartoonishly fat at
    the southeast.\r\n\r\nI agree with Ben that this is great work. And with his demand
    to see a section sign :-)"
  created: '2010-02-11 17:03:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks again, my good helpers!\r\n\r\nI agree on all your suggestions, and
    have tried my best to follow them. Does this look better to you? I've fixed the
    per cent/thousand and the comma issue too, and I will look into the dollar problem
    later. Have to do some other work first. (I'm deeply envious of the people who
    actually make typefaces for a living.) I forgot about the section mark, and I
    see now that its curves are a bit wobbly. But do you think its basic shape and
    weight works? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tmp_5783.png]"
  created: '2010-02-11 20:01:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That section looks like it descends too much to me (though I'm never sure
    about the proper vertical alignment of that glyph). I would squoosh it up so the
    center of it is closer to the vertical center of gravity of your figures. But
    again, I may be wrong.\r\nI think the accents (acute and grave) still look way
    off. I would put the bottom of them very near the optical centerline of the letters.\r\nI'm
    afraid /3/ still looks a bit fatassed to me. :-/ \r\nDid you or would you consider
    lowering your @ glyph so that the \"a\" falls centered in the baseline-to-x-height
    level?"
  created: '2010-02-11 22:40:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'd agree about the @. See <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/65886\">this
    thread</a>. Regarding diacritics, see <a href=\"http://www.twardoch.com/download/typecon2005_gaultney_twardoch_noise.pdf\">this
    Typecon presentation</a> by Adam Twardoch and Victor Gaultney.\r\nSection looks
    like it's leaning left. I haven't yet come across any useful information about
    the design of this glyph, anyone else?\r\nOn \xA3, I wonder if the crossbar should
    be lower than the centre, as featured in the E?"
  created: '2010-02-11 23:16:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "This is extremely yummy, and/but I agree on diacritic placement. And the
    cedilla seems strangely twisted \u2013 but maybe that's just me.\r\n\r\nHere's
    some good input on diacritics from ILT:\r\nhttp://ilovetypography.com/2009/01/24/on-diacritics/"
  created: '2010-02-12 00:24:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Oh, I forgot to say, /J/ looks narrow and maybe mistakable for an /I/ now
    that it doesn't descend.
  created: '2010-02-12 00:44:58'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I've repositioned and fattened the diacritics, moved the \"@\", fixed the
    comma, altered the section sign, polished the pound sign, slimmed down \"3\"s
    arse, and tried a new cedilla approach. Cedillas and geometric sans-serifs aren't
    natural friends, apparently. Could this solution work?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SnapShot_5919.png]"
  created: '2010-02-13 19:44:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "... and reworked quotes and a more self-confident \"J\".\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SnapShot_6176.png]"
  created: '2010-02-13 19:51:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Looks good enough to eat! There's something amazing about this black weight
    in caps. I want it!\r\nLooks like J overshoots a little too much?\r\nI know what
    you mean about cedilla. It's taken quite some time even in a non-geometric sans.
    Your solution is clever."
  created: '2010-02-13 20:05:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I think the spot where the cedilla joins with the letter is too black. I'm
    not familiar enough with how they are supposed to look, but if the french think
    it's ok I would just put those joins on a diet. \r\n\r\nI'm finding the \xD8 slash
    a little wierd -- it's hard to draw well. When two strokes intersects the thinner
    needs a slight offset. It looks like you have accounted for that, but it's still
    not quite right. Have you tried rotating the center part ever so slightly?"
  created: '2010-02-13 23:47:02'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I've worked a lot on this since my last post, bold and black weights are
    now more or less finished, and I've worked my way through Latin Extended A for
    the regular and bold weights. I've done a lot of polishing on everything. I'll
    post a comprehensive pdf in a few days. \r\n\r\nBut now I need your help on this:
    I've done some experiments for a morbidly obese weight of Telefon. This has got
    be caps, numerals and punctuation only, I don't think lower case works at this
    blackness level. (They'll end up looking like Gill Sans Ultrabold.)\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure if this works at all. I've kept the basic structure of the glyphs, and
    some of them may not work. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ultra_5858.png]"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:32:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Wow, looks great!\r\nBiggest bother to my eyes: I don't like the squinting
    C counter. C and G both look a little cartoonish: is there any way to thicken
    the upright of G and thin the curve on the left half?\r\nW looks a bit precariously
    balanced; I might try spreading out the lower vertices. \r\nJ could be a little
    wider maybe?\r\nNice job cramming that S in (though those counters have a touch
    of that squinting, too, maybe). \r\nIs F's lower crossbar too thick?\r\nCould/should
    the counter at the top of Y come down further?"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:49:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks! I agree 100 percent on all your remarks. I wish I knew how to solve
    that \"C\" and \"G\" ... \r\nI'm unsure if the \"E\" and \"F\" are not too black,
    should I make the crossbars a little thinner?"
  created: '2010-02-23 21:59:36'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I thought of that. With the counterspaces so thin, they may start to read
    as lines (a la [[http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/klimax/plus/character_set?size=72&feature=|Klimax]])
    rather than counter<em>shapes</em>: I do like how /H/ and /U/ don't reduce the
    counters to lines. \r\nThat said, there's not a lot of vertical room to work with
    in a \"morbidly obese\" /E/. \r\nMaybe optimum size for the font is something
    you should think about as you make that decision.\r\nIt also occurs to me that
    if you thickened E's counters and they wound up more or less matching the letterspacing
    when followed by a straight (as in the EF of your sample), they actually might
    look <em>more</em> like lines rather than shapes."
  created: '2010-02-23 22:19:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Slightly wider slits in \"E\" and \"F\" (matching letterspacing), \"F\" crossbar
    thinner, desquinted \"C\", \"G\" and \"S\" (some additional curve-tweaking on
    the latter), wider \"J\", deeper \"Y\", adjusted \"W\" (I'd like to have identical
    angles for \"A\", \"V\" and \"W\", for kerning reasons, but that might not be
    possible for \"W\".) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ultra2_4863.png]"
  created: '2010-02-23 22:32:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This area is too tight I think:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/G_4209.png]\r\nI'm
    unsure about the slits of F and E.\r\nOther changes look good, and the consistent
    diagonal idea is a sound one.\r\nThat really is a terrific S!"
  created: '2010-02-23 22:54:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yeah, well done with that S! I agree with Craig about the G, and I'll be
    intrigued to see if there's another solution to the C. Next to D, the first C's
    counterspace looks very different.\r\nI think F crossbar could even go a bit thinned.
    \r\nLower leg of K looks a bit tight. R is lovely though.\r\nI wonder if the arms
    of T need to be heavier to compensate for the gaps underneath (I'm conjecturing
    that at extreme weights like this it can be more about minimising the white space
    consistently than having the black strokes all the same weight. At least it'd
    be interesting to work that way and see what happens.)\r\nI think there may be
    some kind of optical illusion caused by the tail of the Q that makes its counter
    look too far left.\r\nN may need more overshoot?"
  created: '2010-02-23 23:08:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Tweaked \"G\", compromised apertures on \"E\" and \"F\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ultra3_5061.png]"
  created: '2010-02-23 23:20:10'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Didn''t see your post before I posted, Ben, but thanks for your feedback,
    invaluable as always. Bedtime now, but I''ll continue working on this tomorrow
    evening and night. '
  created: '2010-02-23 23:24:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Er ... I just had to work a little on the counters. I've tried equalising
    them as much as I can. Some tweaks on the \"G\" too.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ultra4_5243.png]\r\n\r\n<em>Now</em>
    it's bedtime."
  created: '2010-02-23 23:51:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Numerals. \"C\" and \"G\" are bugging me, I really don't know how to solve
    them. Suggestions are very welcome.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ultra5_6591.png]"
  created: '2010-02-24 22:04:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sindre, that's a tough one! I think the counter of C needs to be somehow
    more central in the glyph, to make the weight more equal all around the curve.
    I had a quick try which might be a starting point:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Telefon-C_5338.gif]\r\nI
    made the counter a bit more circular too.\r\nObstacles like this sometimes make
    me wonder whether a font can be impossible. What if certain decisions are unresolveable?
    Coming back after a break usually brings me new solutions without turning myself
    upside down. "
  created: '2010-02-24 23:02:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "4's horizontal lays too low, I think.\r\n5 looks too skinny\u2014could you
    make the bottom come around like /S/'s? 7 could stand to be a touch wider too.\r\nIf
    you could fatten 3's upper stroke that might be good. (Hey, deja vu! :-) )\r\nThe
    contrast in zero may be a bit much\u2014did you try it with the counter squooshed
    in from the sides a little more?\r\n\r\nI don't see a big problem with your /G/.
    The /C/ just looks too fat on the left. What happens if you just bring in that
    left extremum a bit?"
  created: '2010-02-24 23:07:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Yes! Of course! I made that same diagnosis, but I just couldn''t think of
    a way to solve it, I''ve been much too dogmatic about the proportions. Thank you
    very much for your elegant solution! If we ever meet, the beers are on me. I''ve
    felt several times while drawing this ultrablack weight that it is close to impossible
    to maintain the topology of the regular. The "G" is not doable, of that I''m sure. '
  created: '2010-02-24 23:13:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Lots of cross-posting now, obviously. Thanks for your feedback on the numerals,
    Craig. I''ll have to fix them tomorrow, it''s getting late here. Sometimes I wish
    I was unemployed. Only 27 years till retirement. Sigh. '
  created: '2010-02-24 23:17:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'll get back to you on that G! ;)
  created: '2010-02-24 23:23:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I suspect 2 and 3 and 5 will need vertically cut terminals.
  created: '2010-02-24 23:25:35'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Lots of cross-posting now, obviously</em>\r\n\r\nDamn, for a second
    I thought I was getting the beers."
  created: '2010-02-24 23:28:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I'll bring you a cask of the very best Norwegian craft beer, should I ever
    set foot in Vinland, Craig.
  created: '2010-02-24 23:37:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Here's an idea. I followed the way you'd resolved a and g on the lowercase.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Telefon-G_5030.gif]You
    could also make the bottom right squared if that works better. Sorry it's not
    very neat ;)
  created: '2010-02-24 23:48:41'
- author:
    name: Northbay
    picture: 111583
  body: "First off - this is really impressive! I love this typeface already.\r\n\r\nFor
    some ideas on the \"\xE6-ae\" solution you can (obviously) check Futura, but also
    PTL Superla.  I think the latter alternative is the way to go, since it will preserve
    the geometric feel to it (even though Futura goes the other way).\r\n\r\nI just
    noticed this thread so I have to get back to you with more input. The numbers
    are delicious, especially No5, and the letter \"M\" is stunning.\r\n\r\nIMHO the
    morbidly obese weight is just.. morbid. Didn't like it at all. The typeface lost
    its qualities there."
  created: '2010-02-24 23:52:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you, David. I''ve been having second and third thoughts about that
    overweight cut too, while I like some of the glyphs (BHMNRS and perhaps WZ), others
    are plain awful or cartoonish. Perhaps it''s a good idea to finish the other three
    weights (after all, the ultra caps are still but an experiment), and then try
    a rethought fat face, perhaps less ultrablack, perhaps slightly condensed. '
  created: '2010-02-25 23:33:48'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "New pdf attached, showing regular, bold and black weights. I've covered Latin
    extended A, some extended B, and just a few glyphs from extended additional, most
    notably uppercase Eszett. I really hope those ten surviving speakers of Livonian
    appreciate my supporting their diacritical nightmare of a language! (Just kidding.
    Actually, I really dig all those moribund Uralic micro-languages.) I've also made
    old style figures. \r\n\r\nAny criticism etc."
  created: '2010-03-08 16:24:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is really terrific work. \r\nAttractive letters and they fit together
    nicely (favorite combos include /ra/, /fi/, /tt/). That Arial-slant /t/ even slopes
    up nicely to an ensuing /h/! ;-) The letterspacing in the regular weight text
    sample looks tight to me.\r\n\r\nI still think /J/ could be wider in all weights.\r\n\r\nLooking
    at it in the text settings, I think the bowl of /a/ should be a hair smaller in
    the regular weight.\r\n\r\nIn the bold weight, the /Q/ looks heavy at the bottom
    - should you push that counter down the slightest bit?\r\nAlso in bold, I think
    the upright segment of /5/ could be heavier by a touch.\r\n\r\nIn the black weight,
    the diagonal of /7/ may taper too much - the cartoonish effect threatens to arise.\r\n\r\nI
    like the idea of the narrow /z/, but I think it could gain a little in width more
    with every jump bolder.\r\n\r\nThe sterling doesn't do it for me. Did you or could
    you experiment with a bottom that turns acute at the left, like your /2/?\r\n\r\nI
    buy the \"stemless\" cedilla solution in the black weight but maybe not in the
    bold and not at all in the regular.\r\n\r\n(Note: the glyphs page for the black
    weight is mistakenly labeled \"TELEFON BOLD.\")\r\n\r\nAgain, great work. Get
    this on the market and hopefully soon you'll have funded your trip to America
    to bring me beer."
  created: '2010-03-08 18:33:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thanks again for your time and thoughts, Craig. I was starting to feel a
    little insecure about this whole project, your criticism blew away those cloudy
    thoughts. \r\n\r\nYes, I've had doubts about the spacing. I guess I've landed
    on a spacing suitable for display work. But perhaps I should make it looser, so
    it can be set at ten or twelve points without the need for manual adjustment.
    But I wonder how much that will affect the kerning. I'll do some experiments.
    Is it only the regular that's too loose, do you think? \r\n\r\nI'll more or less
    blindly follow your other suggestions, perhaps except for the cedilla thing. I
    think it works in all weights, but I might be blinded by my own idea. It would
    be great to have second on third opinions on this. (I kind of like my sterling
    too, but that glyph is rather alien to me, so I guess I'll follow your advice.)\r\n\r\nAmerica,
    here I come!   "
  created: '2010-03-08 19:04:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Is it only the regular that's too loose, do you think?</em>\r\nYes,
    the smaller counters in the bolder weights make their spacing good to my eyes.\r\n\r\n<em>(I
    kind of like my sterling too, but that glyph is rather alien to me, so I guess
    I'll follow your advice.)</em>\r\nWell it's alien to me, too, so let's see what
    Ben \"Mr. Pound\" Mitchell has to say...\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-08 19:08:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok well I had a sneaky look at this earlier and the \xA3 didn't draw attention
    to itself, in fact everything looked unbelievably polished and beautiful. I really
    like this one. \r\n\r\nWell I'm going to look through in super-picky mode so take
    my comments with even more salt than usual...\r\n\r\na is terrific! I love the
    egg shaped counter. As Craig said, perhaps it could be narrower but only a hair,
    it's great.\r\n\r\nTilde looks funny. I think it should be more monoline and more
    geometric somehow, like two semicircles with horizontal terminals??\r\n\r\naacute
    seems to need the acute moving left a bit, as the hood is already quite rightward.\r\n\r\naogonek:
    I think I'd slim the bottom spur slightly to compensate for the extra weight below
    the baseline.\r\n\r\nccedilla: I think the cedilla works fine, though could do
    with a final polish (the counter looks vaguely deformed)\r\n\r\neth looks a different
    size completely.\r\n\r\neogonek is beautiful.\r\n\r\nI love f.\r\n\r\ng may need
    a tiny bit shaving off the tail's terminal. It looks a bit getting fatter at the
    end.\r\n\r\nezh needs a polish on the lower curve. The rightmost nodes may need
    sliding down.\r\n\r\nnacute needs the acute further to the right.\r\n\r\nWhy is
    there a smallcap R in the lowercase?\r\n\r\ns is incredible. Good work.\r\n\r\nscedilla
    may need cedilla further right.\r\n\r\nw is awesome.\r\n\r\nWow, a wynn! Why not
    indeed.\r\n\r\nyacute: move the acute right. And the opposite for ygrave.\r\n\r\n\r\nFractions:
    I think I'd add a hair more weight overall.\r\n\r\n\xA3: Now, here's the difficult
    one! I love the quirky toppling shape of this. I'd pull the straight section of
    the stem up a bit to make the left side of the hood more taut and geometrical.
    But actually what I'd like to see is a vertical terminal on the hood and a slab
    on the right end of the foot. And if you can make the hood's terminal hover over
    the slabbed foot then it would echo the G. I think a pointy 2-like \xA3 would
    look out of place in this font.\r\n\r\nPercent looks light.\r\n\r\n@ might benefit
    from more space between the a and the ring.\r\n\r\nYour punctuation rocks!!\r\n\r\nTM:
    more weight?\r\n\r\nSection is such a hard one. It looks wide maybe?\r\n\r\nUppercase:\r\n\r\nCcedilla:
    should the cedilla be a slight bit heavier than on the lc?\r\n\r\nD: perhaps the
    bcps need pulling a few units right on the top and bottom of the bowl?\r\n\r\nE
    with diacritics: the diacritics seem to be all slightly too far left.\r\n\r\nEogonek
    needs to have the ogonek flush with the right end of E's foot.\r\n\r\nEzh may
    be too narrow. I'm quite unfamiliar with it really though.\r\n\r\nQ may need its
    right side lifting ever so slightly to even out the density above its tail.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is that funny R thing?\r\n\r\nScedilla: see scedilla.\r\n\r\nOE: I've never seen
    one like that, but I really like it. Is that ok?\r\n\r\nI haven't looked in such
    depth through the bold and black. See what happens with the regular first!\r\n\r\nReally
    liking this, there's something really 1930s about this style to me, but much sharper. "
  created: '2010-03-08 22:52:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Kern hyphen with numerals:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hyphen_4057.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-08 22:55:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Oh boy, I can only say thanks. Invaluable. I have to go to bed now, but I'm
    really looking forward to reworking my typeface according to your input tomorrow
    afternoon. \r\n\r\nYes, that small cap R may seem odd, but it's really a lower
    case Yr, used for scholarly transcription of Proto-Norse. (The upper case Yr is
    that weird R with the right part moved a storey down.) Yes, I know nobody will
    ever use it for this (nor for Livonian), but <em>I</em> want to be able to set
    \"Ek HlewagastiR HoltijaR horna tawido\" properly. I have a near-autistic fascination
    for archaic, classic and medi\xE6val languages, you see. "
  created: '2010-03-08 23:12:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I thought it must be something obscure. Is the lc intentionally larger than
    the other lc glyphs? Proto-Norse! I too love the branches of language families...I
    didn't know about the possibilities of extinct letters as well! Should you have
    yogh if you have wynn?\r\n\r\nWell, take what I say with plenty of salt, as you
    know I am by no means an authority or anything! "
  created: '2010-03-08 23:33:13'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Slowly working my way through your suggestions. I've made the currency symbols
    more equal. Here's the present state: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/valuta1_5134.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's your slabbed pound, Ben. I don't know if I prefer this shape, but you're
    the expert. What do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/valuta2_6453.png]"
  created: '2010-03-09 16:30:03'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "In fact, the glyph you both saw as ezh was in fact meant as a yogh. But I
    find that the shape I've chosen is as good as deprecated, because of ... ambiguity.
    My books are old. Sigh. I guess I have to make new yoghs. \r\n\r\nI had no intention
    of including ezh, as that is only used by the moribund Skolt Sami. (And transcription
    of some African languages, but I <em>definitely</em> won't support any of those.)
    But then again, now I'm just a few glyphs away from Skolt Sami. Here we go again
    ...  "
  created: '2010-03-09 16:40:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "FWIW (maybe not much) here's a rough approximation of what I meant with the
    bottom of \xA3\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/valuta1_5134_4882.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-09 16:56:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacing_6498.png]'
  created: '2010-03-09 17:01:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I feel that pound sign is a little out of character, as all sharp points elsewhere
    are the result of diagonal meeting stem or crossbar, Craig. It would be appropriate
    if I made a "curly" pound sign, like Futura's, but I'm keen to avoid that.
  created: '2010-03-09 17:05:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Fair enough.\r\nThat spacing is better. But that sample makes me think your
    /u/ may be too narrow, which I didn't catch before.\r\nI also forgot to mention:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_6058.gif]\r\nIs
    there some kind of hinting help you can give to your superior figures? Vertically
    they rasterize all over the map when I zoom out of the pdf. See how the threesuperior
    looks large and the onesuperior looks low compared to the twosuperior?"
  created: '2010-03-09 17:22:44'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I've been suspecting that for a while too, but there's a lot of things to
    forget when you draw a typeface. Does this look good?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newu_3887.png]\r\n\r\nAbout
    the superiors: All hinting so far is auto-generated, I have to read up on hinting
    before I do anything. But perhaps their design is flawed too, I haven't paid much
    attention to those little guys. By the way, I've made slightly fatter fractions
    (and superiors): \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fractions_5973.png]"
  created: '2010-03-09 17:42:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thanks for all help so far! I have to leave the house for several hours now.
    If I had to choose between a social life and type design ...
  created: '2010-03-09 17:44:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Yes, I think you've nailed it with that /u/ width now.
  created: '2010-03-09 17:52:30'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>If I had to choose between a social life and type design ...</cite>\r\n\r\nTypophile:
    social type design. ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-09 20:39:49'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Yes! I choose Typophile! That's why I'm back much earlier than I expected.
    Been thinking about that troublesome tilde all the time. Contrast-free tildes
    are impossible!
  created: '2010-03-09 20:52:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here's Calibri's\u2014pretty monoline and work well I think.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4599.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-09 21:15:02'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Ah ... I made this in the meantime.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tilde_5278.png]"
  created: '2010-03-09 21:26:15'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Is mine a hair too flat and wide?
  created: '2010-03-09 21:27:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tilde_5607.png]\r\n\r\nApropos the pound
    sign: My first draft had a pound like the one you suggested, Craig. Have a look
    at the picture on the first post. "
  created: '2010-03-09 21:36:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Is that where I got the idea?! :-P\r\n\r\nI think that tilde is close, though
    my eye sees it as thinnest in the middle which may exacerbate its squiggliness.
    Compare the way your ass-kicking /s/s thicken slightly along the spine."
  created: '2010-03-09 21:54:49'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tilde3_6314.png]"
  created: '2010-03-09 22:08:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "FWIW I find tilde one of the most annoying shapes to draw. I think maybe
    you could take a fraction off the thickness at the ends leaving the centre as
    it is. (Or perhaps reducing the reflexivity of that central curve?)\r\n\r\nI very
    much like your new \xA3. I personally love the one with the slab, because the
    other looks a little too simple and naked against the more complex forms of the
    other currency signs...but of course it would occur with numerals which are very
    simple shapes. In terms of harmonising then, the slabless one proabably wins."
  created: '2010-03-09 23:25:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I think maybe you could take a fraction off the thickness at the ends
    leaving the centre as it is.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree - I'd just have the inside contour
    not come around quite so far - it looks like it's flaring out at the very ends."
  created: '2010-03-09 23:45:08'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Nice work!  One small comment: while I was looking in telefon_080310.pdf,
    I noticed that in Telefon Black the right edge of the eth appears to be a bit
    lumpy.  Most of your other curves are quite smooth.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-10 02:34:30'
- author:
    name: Northbay
    picture: 111583
  body: Any update on this project?
  created: '2010-07-11 00:23:52'
- author:
    name: hun
    picture: 120459
  body: "i love this type of geometric san serif styles!\r\ndigging the scandinavian
    simplicity / geometric proportions\r\nsome even french i guess..\r\n\r\nstrong
    work!!\r\n\r\nreminiscent of itc ronda (especially A!) and toronto subway (E)
    and so on\r\nalso loving the M! and the diagonal slashing on top of the t :]\r\nS
    kinda like futura and some are like gill sans\r\nbut this is a strong unique work
    that has many facets! and i am digging it\r\nooh! and i also love the old type
    figures.. loving the overall movements rhythms\r\n\r\ni love how closer to geometrical
    prime-shapes so things look edgier simple and straightforward\r\nwhen i went to
    norway i liked the sign of the store norli :] and narvessen logos\r\nhave a nice
    day!"
  created: '2010-08-02 19:33:56'
- author:
    name: shaileshc
  body: "I came across this post while looking for Norweigan inspired fonts. I think
    Telefon is an excellent typeface. I haven't read all the comments. But I'd like
    to make clear my interest. I am in the next 2 weeks getting involved in a big
    book design project for a client based in Norway. I am bsed in London. I am looking
    for a Norweigan inspired modern typeface. Telefon looks on first impressions a
    typeface i'd like to use in the book as a principal headline style. Would you
    be interested in collaborating? \r\nShailesh  "
  created: '2011-04-05 11:25:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: (I don't think Sindre is very frequently here at the moment, you might be
    better to message him offline.)
  created: '2011-04-07 12:01:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I can contact Sindre directly if you want. '
  created: '2011-04-07 13:36:55'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: That's a shame, his work is great.
  created: '2011-04-07 14:34:29'
- author:
    name: shaileshc
  body: "Frode, \r\nIf you can contact Sindre for me that would be a great help. My
    address is shailesh.chavda@beetroot.co.uk\r\nIf anything comes out of this...
    will keep this post updated.  "
  created: '2011-04-07 18:19:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Hello again, typophiles. It''s been a long time. Thanks to Frode for calling
    me back. Thanks to Andrew for encouragement. Shailesh, thank you very much for
    your interest in Telefon and for your very kind words. I am indeed interested
    in your proposal. My address is sindre.bremnes@gmail.com. I''m looking forward
    to learning more about your project. '
  created: '2011-04-07 19:32:11'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: It's a nice face, but it doesn't seem too different from Neutraface/Futura/Brandon
    Grotesque.
  created: '2011-04-08 04:51:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'On the contrary! It differs quite a lot from these, which in turn differ
    quite a lot themselves. '
  created: '2011-04-08 10:05:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Oh, it's much cooler than those :)\r\n\r\nCan't wait to hear/see what this
    book turns out to be!"
  created: '2011-04-10 10:08:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thanks, guys. I hope you''re right. (And while drawing, I never once thought
    I made a Futura copy. Indeed, all typefaces based on a stick and a ball will appear
    similar to the untrained eye.) '
  created: '2011-04-10 11:46:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Glad to see you back Sindre! That serif face you previewed in the "cusped
    U" thread looks amazing. Will you be making a thread on it here?
  created: '2011-04-10 19:19:59'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Hello again, Craig. Yes, I think I will, if you think it''s worthwile doing
    so. In fact, I''ve drawn a lot of stuff since I last posted on Tyhpophile, but
    I really don''t want to outstay my welcome. '
  created: '2011-04-10 23:17:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sindre, I share Craig's anticipation to see more of your work \u2014 it's
    always been exciting and inspiring. I'd love to see you release something :)"
  created: '2011-04-10 23:36:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Yes, what Bendy said! Good to see you round Sindre.
  created: '2011-04-11 13:07:40'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Craig, Ben and Nina. It's really great seeing you all again! I've
    posted some stuff in the serif critique section now. \r\n "
  created: '2011-04-13 00:18:07'
- author:
    name: sam.curcio
  body: "Is this font available for use? I love it!\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-08 14:20:24'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you very much, Sam. Yes, Telefon is available for licensing. Feel free
    to contact me at sindre.bremnes@gmail.com. '
  created: '2011-07-08 15:28:31'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Hey, [[http://www.formmagazine.com/en/current_issue.aspx|Telefon is becoming
    famous!]]\r\nVery soon it will be released\u200A\u2014\u200Aalong with several
    other typefaces you might know from the critique section of Typophile, and not
    only mine \u2026 stay tuned! "
  created: '2012-04-14 10:43:01'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Go Sindre! :^)
  created: '2012-04-14 12:50:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Congrats!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-14 14:25:55'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: So well deserved! Warm congratulations, Sindre. I can hardly wait to see this
    (and more) out.
  created: '2012-04-15 08:54:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you so much, friends! This typeface wouldn''t have this good at all
    weren''t it for your invaluable help. '
  created: '2012-04-15 12:21:24'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "And finally, today Telefon is released on Monokrom Type Foundry, founded
    by Frode Bo Helland and myself.  \r\n\r\nThank you so much for all your help and
    support! \r\n\r\nhttps://monokrom.no/fonts/telefon\r\nhttps://monokrom.no/"
  created: '2012-12-05 11:41:35'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Congratulations! \r\n\r\nBy the way, I find your <em>Satyr/Faunus</em> font
    family ridiculously cool. I've been thinking of buying <em>Cala</em> or <em>Quadraat</em>
    as a letter-writing font, but I think yours might just have made the top of the
    list."
  created: '2012-12-05 12:58:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you! Very kind and encouraging words. Satyr is released today too,
    as you might have found out. '
  created: '2012-12-05 12:59:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, Satyr rules the forest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 14:32:55'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Looks like this old thing somehow nailed the Zeitgeist, very much without
    at all trying. Telefon is now  number four on FontShop's [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/popular.php|Popular-list]].
    It wouldn't have happened without /node/66441. Thank you again!
  created: '2013-01-06 12:49:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wonderful!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-06 15:19:40'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: '@Sindre: It looks very solid, very well drawn, and historically aware, so
    although it is a pleasant surprise in some way it is no surprise to see it is
    gaining success. It shows you developed it with lots of love for the source material,
    which is good! :-)'
  created: '2013-01-06 20:41:51'
- author:
    name: Northbay
    picture: 111583
  body: "Great news! Congrats Sindre \u2013 Telefon is a wonderful creation."
  created: '2013-01-14 16:00:14'
date: '2010-01-20 17:18:46'
title: Telefon, a Nordic geometric

---
