---
author:
  name: nkautz
  picture: 112262
body: "Let me start by noting that I do not condone font piracy.  I am a graphic designer
  and typographer by trade and I have always licensed all fonts in my work.  That
  said, I don't have a problem downloading collections for preview and trial purposes.\r\n\r\nI
  am looking for good trackers for finding fonts and font collections, preferably
  organized so as to allow browsing fonts as a category, instead of being limited
  to results of a search.\r\n\r\nif one doesn't exist, it damn sure should.  who is
  with me?\r\n\r\nplease do not turn this thread into a soapbox for copyright and/or
  intellectual property politics.  start a new one if you must."
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Are you fucking kidding me? Get lost.
  created: '2010-01-22 10:19:03'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Doesn't exist. It's all Rapidshsare/Usenet except for mainstream large collections/trash
    heaps. Fonts have never been much of a torrent thing.
  created: '2010-01-22 10:52:12'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Let me start by noting that I do not condone shoplifting. I am a food connaisseur
    and amateur chef and always pay for the goods I use when cooking. That said, I
    don\u2019t have a problem opening up cans and packages in the supermarket for
    preview and trial purposes.\r\n\r\n---\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2010-01-22 11:50:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "You can preview fonts at MyFonts.com. \r\n\r\nIt's not wise to ask people
    who spend months and years creating fonts where you can download unlicensed fonts,
    whatever the purpose."
  created: '2010-01-22 12:27:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "People who run torrent sites should be put against a wall and machine-gunned.\r\n\r\nIs
    that too strong? maybe not."
  created: '2010-01-22 13:07:20'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: lol @ bert
  created: '2010-01-22 14:42:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick Cooke:\r\n\r\n> <cite>People who run torrent sites should be put against
    a wall and machine-gunned.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you also machine-gun people who do
    this\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65398\r\n\r\nor this\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65698\r\n\r\nor
    this\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65198\r\n\r\nor this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers"
  created: '2010-01-22 15:06:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Uh oh.
  created: '2010-01-22 15:13:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Stealing fonts is like raping babies at gun point. '
  created: '2010-01-22 15:42:15'
- author:
    name: blaze.online
    picture: 114451
  body: "aluminum:\r\n\r\nCould you explain a bit further, because it seems to me
    that since you're talking about being held at gunpoint: It's something you're
    forced to do, even though you despise it a lot.\r\n\r\nEnglish isn't my primary
    language, so maybe I don't complete understand your post / metaphor.\r\n\r\n@Bert:
    mooie vergelijking ;) It made me smile, although you would be copying the food
    before you tasted it.\r\n\r\nIn general: I agree with Bert, and maybe not as strong
    as the words Nick chose, but still, I agree with his point. \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-22 16:35:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: Uli - I couldn't be bothered to read all that - what's your point?
  created: '2010-01-22 16:39:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uli - I couldn't be bothered to read all that - what's your point?\r\n\r\nDon't
    bother to ask before you machine-gun.\r\n\r\nShoot first, ask later."
  created: '2010-01-22 17:30:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "nkautz: As a moderator I have to say that you've picked entirely the wrong
    site if you wish for information on being able to download fonts illegally. Typophile
    has always maintained zero tolerance for sharing and/or otherwise illegally distributing
    fonts. As far as I'm concerned it is a non-topic and should not be discussed here
    at all. \r\n\r\nTo the rest of you reading this thread. If any information is
    shared I will remove your comment without hesitation.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-22 18:17:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@blaze: Sorry, I was just goofing on the subject. \r\n\r\nCopyright infringement
    is nothing like raping babies with or without guns.\r\n\r\nFor that matter, it's
    nothing like shoplifting, either. \r\n\r\n(Not that I condone downloading licensed
    fonts via bit torrent either)"
  created: '2010-01-22 18:42:17'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Illegally downloading a font IS NOT like stealing food (or anything else,
    for that matter), people\u2026 let's get some perspective, here: it's actually
    like threatening a prostitute with rape.\r\nWhich means that if you do not condone
    of prostitution, you shouldn't use commercial typefaces at all. That's like going
    to a prostitute on a daily basis. And as George Costanza once said, why park in
    a garage when, if you apply yourself, you can get the same thing for free?"
  created: '2010-01-22 23:16:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: What a horrible analogy :(
  created: '2010-01-22 23:52:42'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I thought it would distract everyone away from the innocent-bashing. I guess
    it might work.\r\nWe really need to learn how to resolve these issues in a more
    civilized manner. This throat-jumping knee-jerk reaction is always terrible.\r\nPeople
    will come here asking for this and for cheap logos and the works. Get with the
    times. Get over it. They're not killing whales. They thought it was innocent enough
    that they could put themselves out here, or maybe they didn't think at all. They
    never saw these things as we do, from our perspective.\r\nThe fact that some of
    us might think that this or that is really very wrong is no excuse for treating
    people, especially recent/new members, like this. We need to embrace them. We
    need them.\r\nWe need some default, civilized, educational response. These reactions
    are constant and, I  believe, below us."
  created: '2010-01-23 00:08:57'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: Nonetheless, I stand by my analogy. I loved it. xD
  created: '2010-01-23 00:11:04'
- author:
    name: nkautz
    picture: 112262
  body: jesus christ listen to yourselves, i almost forgot how bitchy web forums are.  i
    will take above advice and post where "moderators" do not censor the exchange
    of information and resources.
  created: '2010-01-23 05:33:11'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I answered your question in a non bitchy manner.\r\n\r\nThere's no mass of
    interested font collectors with a taste for current font releases fonts who use
    torrents. At least not the public trackers. I think that's why the majority of
    font torrents are ancient collections of converted junk, graffiti font collections
    or mainstream big company collections. I'm not saying that to discourage people.
    Anyone can Google the words font & torrent and see for themselves. The foundry
    collections, while they sounds exciting and useful, tend to be really outdated.
    I'm not going to name specific ones but I think they're really only useful to
    font historians.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure why, but the font scene is mostly a Rapidshare
    (or similar) scene. Usually when I see my own fonts being posted, it's usually
    a Rapidshare link. Whenever I see my own fonts in torrents, they're usually old
    versions of my early fonts mixed in with the usual 40,000 or so font grab bag
    mixed with free fonts . . . I think you know what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure about the Usenet font scene . . . those cats are hard core. But so many
    Usenet search sites are fake so who knows? From the Usenet search tools it looks
    as if there are some current font collections being traded but it sounds unlikely.
    I've seen <i>supposed</i> Usenet collections, supposedly containing fonts of which
    I had only sold 3 copies. Unlikely.\r\n\r\nI don't think it's that way by accident.
    There's a real lack of availability and a fairly high price point (compared to
    music, movies, tv) which prevents torrents of new fonts to be released as torrents
    in the first place. If a font is $50 and sells 25 copies, how likely is it that
    one of those is going to end up on a tracker? Since, I think, most font buyers
    are designers, are those designers really going to take the time to post a torrent
    with single font family? Prolly not."
  created: '2010-01-23 09:35:44'
- author:
    name: nitingarg
    picture: 115938
  body: "Its nothing, but we are killing our own business this way. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 10:07:08'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I agree. I don't think it helps just to avoid talking about it. Font designers
    need to consider verious file sharing networks and the ways it harms/helps. Whether
    you want to fight file sharing head on, embrace it or focus your work in a different
    way, making jokes, threatening and trying to scare people off is just dumb.
  created: '2010-01-23 10:42:43'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: 'Nkautz: I apologize if you thought this was a forum on fonts or typography.
    It''s mostly a forum on complaining and licensing and on how to make people pay
    more for fonts.'
  created: '2010-01-23 13:26:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: No, it's not. But if you're asking a forum of professional type designers
    where you can find their work for free, it's obvious you're going to get a frosty
    response. Don't they deserve to earn a living as much as anyone else?
  created: '2010-01-23 13:37:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "FWIW - I share Ray's sentiments in that \"not talking about it\" is harmful.
    nkautz is going to the darknet because he can get something there that he can't
    get elsewhwere and it's not \"free\" fonts. (I'm taking him at his word, I have
    no reason not to.)\r\nIt's the ability to experiment with fonts before buying,
    work with them, pick and choose from a huge selection, whatever.\r\nIf not talking
    about it is rooted in \"hey, let's not give anybody any ideas\" and \"let's not
    let anybody know there isn't much we can do about it\", well, if those are the
    realities, then who are you really lying to?\r\nIs there some choice other than
    dealing with it?\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 15:14:25'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Nkautz-\r\n\r\nSince you are in a forum filled with type designers, would
    it not be more appropriate to ask if you could get a sample pdf of specific font
    with a phrase \"what ever you're working on\", instead of a working torrent?\r\n\r\nI
    think many, if not all, would be happy to compliment you. Not always immediately,
    but for my part, I'd be happy to send you a sample with your text for you to try
    it out. In this way you could get closer to the designer, instead of alienating
    them."
  created: '2010-01-23 19:51:15'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I agree that these knee-jerk \"you're a criminal get out of this forum\"
    reactions to any mention of file sharing helps nobody and only serves to alienate
    new members of our community. Isn't this thread really about a bigger issue, which
    is that foundries should work to create a better preview mechanism? Several foundries
    offer an effective way to preview display fonts (MyFonts, H&FJ, and vllg come
    to mind), but there is still no really good way to visualize what a typeface will
    look like for extended text in the context of your document.\r\n\r\nTomi has suggested
    contacting the designers, and I think that this is a great idea. However, couldn't
    foundries offer some sort of automated service in which you feed in your point
    size, leading, column width, etc., and it spits out say 12 column-inches of lorem
    ipsum as a pdf for you to place in your document? I think that this would be a
    very useful tool.\r\n\r\nBut on the original topic, the type community cannot
    become like the RIAA and unilaterally condemn any mention of file-sharing. I recognize
    that the analogy to the recording industry is problematic, since the musicians
    lose much less from having their music downloaded, and type designers don't sell
    merchandise and play concerts. There's a reason that I have very little problem
    with downloading music but won't illegally download fonts or aid anyone in doing
    so. But the type community needs to avoid being seen as a curmudgeonly bunch of
    old coots who can't get with the times. Type designers need to figure out how
    to work the current climate to their advantage; just look at Jos Buivenga.\r\n\r\nThat's
    an awful lot of words just to say \"don't shout down anyone who mentions file
    sharing, regardless of intentions,\" but ultimately I feel that we can benefit
    fro the conversations that these kinds of threads start."
  created: '2010-01-24 20:36:25'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> couldn't foundries offer some sort of automated service in which you feed
    in your point size, leading, column width, etc., and it spits out say 12 column-inches
    of lorem ipsum as a pdf for you to place in your document?\r\n\r\nLike this?:
    http://www.typotheque.com/PDF_font_tester"
  created: '2010-01-24 21:00:38'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Yes, quite a bit like that. I didn't know a foundry was offering a tool that
    was actually useful for previewing text fonts. It would be nice to be able to
    adjust the leading, though, and the justification, and to have the ability to
    measure the column width in picas and points. I'm glad that a foundry is offering
    a tool that lets you look at more than one line of text, though, and with that
    level of variability.
  created: '2010-01-24 21:08:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>>> I am a graphic designer and typographer by trade and I have always
    licensed all fonts in my work. That said, I don't have a problem downloading collections
    for preview and trial purposes.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>> Get lost.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not a way to treat paying customers. That's a way to loose them."
  created: '2010-01-24 21:18:57'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "true. \r\n\r\nA thing that seems to to be quite elusive is that when someone
    steals\u2013 (downloads without paying for) a font, or some other software, nothing
    is actually taken. The font is still there. Someone steals a couple of cans or
    packages from a super market, and they are gone & the merchant is out of pocket.
    You can say stealing is stealing, but when someone steals something that can be
    infinitely replicated, it needs to be treated it a little differently than a can
    of corn. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 22:27:26'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Um. Russell, can you post your credit card number? That's a copy, non? And
    I'm <em>sure</em> your insurance covers it, so you loose nothing, and you'll make
    me a happy man in the progress.
  created: '2010-01-24 22:46:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: ">DrDoc - There's a reason that I have very little problem with downloading
    music but won't illegally download fonts or aid anyone in doing so.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that reason is musicians have been forced (are able) to make all their money off
    of concerts and merchandise? Brilliant. Probably in addition to that you mythologize
    sticking to \"the man\", like Warner Brothers or one of the other evil companies.
    Why not stick it to Linotype then?\r\n\r\nThe most money I ever made off of music
    was when The Red Hot Chili Peppers covered one of my songs. It's called royalties.
    Which you only get when records are SOLD.\r\n\r\nThe power of justification is
    amazing. You can't have it both ways Dr. Robin Hood.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-24 23:01:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "actual things are not virtual things, and vice versa. If I were to give you
    access to my money, then, well\u2026 you'd have access to my money and unfortunately,
    THAT is not infinitely replicate-able, but if it were, believe me, I'd be happy
    to do so. \r\n\r\nIf you want to convince people they need to pay for the virtual
    things we make, don't start by pissing them off. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 23:24:45'
- author:
    name: funk_king
    picture: 118852
  body: "wouldn't it be great if some of those free font websites that are actually
    ad driven would share their revenue with the typographers who post their work
    there. sure there's a wide range of quality, but it's also very democratic - and
    at least the designer would be compensated to some degree. wouldn't it be great
    if someone would create something like this? thereby showing that it can be done
    and that perhaps we as a community would support it by posting our work there
    and making it unavailable elsewhere, until those other sites did the same - share
    the revenue generated by the ads that appear on their site? sounds easy enough.
    this is the new reality of digital freedom. the old business models used when
    transfer sheets were the norm in typography need to change just like typography
    has. the way already exists to provide \"free\" fonts and make money doing it.\r\n\r\nand
    a greater threat is the whole copyright law as it relates to type design. we should
    be just as concerned (if not more so) about the ability of corporations and others
    to steal ideas from the average joe typographer because U.S. copyright doesn't
    protect type designs per se."
  created: '2010-01-24 23:31:07'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "A couple more thoughts on the subject.\r\n\r\nThere are effectively three
    types of people interested in fonts:\r\n\r\n(a) those who do not realize that
    fonts require licensing\r\n(b) those who know that they should be licensed and
    use them without licensing\r\n(c) those who know that they should be licensed
    and do in fact license them\r\n\r\n(a) are potential customers\r\n(b) are not
    paying out of principle\r\n(c) are paying customers\r\n\r\nNow, let's see what
    does going after the torrent sites do. First of all, who ends up searching for
    a pirated copy of the font ? Those who have just been to the font retailer and
    could not download a copy without paying. I.e. people who <em>know</em> about
    the licensing requirements, the group (b) or (c). Or those from (a) who were shocked
    by a sticker price and did not find a way to justify it.\r\n\r\n(b) is not paying,
    but (c) does. Why is (c) looking at pirated copies ? I think the answer is damn
    obvious - they want to evaluate the font in detail before committing. They are
    in a sense compensating for the shortcomings or the inadequacy of previewing systems
    at the font retailer's site.\r\n\r\nThis in turn means that taking down the torrent'ed
    copy eliminates the font from the consideration by such customers. It effectively
    translates into lost sales.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf the goal is to entice people not
    to use torrents, then the only effective way to address this problem is to provide
    some form of return policy or to offer selected weights free of charge. Based
    on how well Jos's Museo is doing, latter is working. \r\n\r\nFormer is not something
    that I've ever seen in the wild, but, again, twist your brains a bit and consider
    who would be using this option - this would hardly be pirates, wouldn't it ? Every
    single \"return\" will come from honest, paying customers that will in the end
    be grateful for the flexibility; and that in itself will establish a great deal
    of goodwill and make them more likely to return for another purchase.\r\n\r\nIn
    other words - <em>do not worry about the piracy</em>. \r\n\r\nFocus on simplifying
    the experience of those who are willing to pay instead of going after those who
    won't pay regardless. "
  created: '2010-01-24 23:48:04'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I throw music/font analogies around like something in a something. Here's
    something that I think differentiates font/music piracy. It's not a morality thing,
    it's a money thing.\r\n\r\nWhen a song is pirated, it's not likely to be broadcast.
    It goes into an MP3 player. The lost income is a lost sale.\r\n\r\nWhen a font
    is pirated, it may be used for something the public will see, in a sense, broadcast.
    A blog heading, decal, logo, game etc. This exposure causes a kind of erosion
    of style. The more people see it, the less novel it becomes. You can certainly
    see that with free fonts: they quickly become uncool from overexposure.\r\n\r\nFor
    recording artists, it's been argued that exposing people to music who normally
    wouldn't but it creates fan bases . . . agree or not, you've heard that side of
    the music piracy argument before. I think there's some truth in it. I don't think
    it means music piracy is a great boon for recording artists (2000 vs 2010) but
    more of a big downside with a tiny little upside.\r\n\r\nFor font makers, there's
    not much of a positive side to piracy. The increased exposure lowers the value
    of a font. There's little prestige in being included in a torrent, especially
    since the collections are generally trashy. According to apakrat, being included
    in a font torrent junk pile can potentially increase sales but I think it's pretty
    far fetched. But I agree about not worrying about it. You can't stop it anyway.\r\n\r\nFree
    font styles fueling pay font sales: I think that's a myth. The effect on sales
    is very subtle. If it worked, I'd keep doing it but generally a free version seems
    to have no effect on sales of the rest of the family whatsoever. I've been including
    free commercial use font styles since 2001. If it had a noticeable positive effect
    on sales, I'd be including free styles with every family.\r\n\r\nMaybe Museo does
    so well because it's awesome."
  created: '2010-01-25 02:35:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There's also not much of an upside for songwriters, which in the above stated
    case I was. If records don't sell you don't get royalties, pretty simple. Producers
    often have points on an album, same story. Touring for most bands is a losing
    money scenario, unless you are REALLY big.\r\n\r\nSo what's the big difference?
    The music industry has been hurt and so has the font industry. I have no solution
    to propose, other than maintaining my own morality.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-25 03:13:12'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "since we are comparing to the music industry, Sony BMG opened a site in Australia
    - http://www.bandit.fm/ - which offers 100% DRM free music at the highest MP3
    compression (320kbits) with artwork all downloaded in a neat .zip file that can
    be shared on as many music players / computers you want. i believe they have taken
    this approach because they realise that music will be shared/pirated regardless,
    and this way they at least get the revenue of people like me who want the ease
    of downloading anytime, but also want to do the right thing, ie feel guilty when
    illegally downloading. \r\n\r\nanother thing to consider, how many of you would
    copy a friends cd to your computer without even thinking about it? i know just
    about all my friends do it and they are mostly honest people. for some reason,
    the fact that the cd was purchased at some point is enough for them to not think
    that sharing the cd amongst friends could be bad.\r\n\r\ni see the same with fonts.
    most of the designers i know who use illegal fonts have acquired them from other
    designer friends or from studios where they worked. 6 years ago at my first design
    job my design manager said i could copy the linotype gold disc to take home, that
    it was a perk of working there, so being young, i did, only years later did i
    realise it was stealing as deleted the fonts. \r\n\r\nnow i'm happy to say that
    both my music and font collections are legal and honest, but that has been a deliberate
    choice on my part.\r\n\r\ni agree with others that education is still needed so
    that people know fonts need licensing, also that some people never will pay for
    fonts and also that making it easier for designers to test fonts will help. I
    know for me, the online testing is vital before i purchase."
  created: '2010-01-26 14:21:13'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "may i add, that i have on a few occasions just straight up asked a type designer/foundry
    for a weight of a font to test, and some of them have given the weight or two
    to use, i then usually purchase them. either way, the type designer knows i have
    their fonts and can contact me anytime if there is a problem.\r\n\r\ni have even
    had one type designer send me copies of fonts and only ask for payment when i
    actually use the font. rare i know, but it has happened to me. \r\n\r\nmoral of
    the story, just be up front and honest with the supplier, they then have the right
    to say yes or no to your request, but at least it's all in the open."
  created: '2010-01-26 14:24:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "A general question: what kind of users tend to use fonts without paying for
    them?\r\n\r\nIs it professionals of one kind or another who are trying to save
    money? Is it amateurs who are doing posters or signs? Or T-shirts. Are they lone
    eagles - free lancers - or people who work for design houses of one sort or another?\r\n\r\nI
    know very little about this. So I'm just asking.\r\nObviously someone who takes
    and uses and then does not pay is not a customer. \r\nBut sometimes knowing who
    your customers *are not* can be a fruitful analysis.\r\nWhy are they not paying?
    Just crooked? Poor? What?\r\n\r\nSeriously.... what are their profiles. What's
    the motivation."
  created: '2010-01-29 00:15:44'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "For me, as a book designer, I get a lot of fonts with multilingual prints
    with just black plate for each language. I use the fonts, and then package them
    with other files for possible re-prints or corrections. After the job they are
    just in storage.\r\n\r\nAs a type designer, this is sort of built-in thing to
    do.\r\n\r\nBut I've worked in advertising, and there thigs are so very different:
    an old co-worker started his own agency, and called me to work on a type they
    had already cleared with the client to be used as a logo and house type.\r\n\r\nThat
    type was something I had done for a publishing company some years ago. I went
    there and explained to them that this font family was made for exclusive use of
    that publisher, and I could not see how that could have ended as a logo of a lunch
    diner.\r\n\r\nMy friend said that he just copied ALL fonts from the company he
    left, and liked my font for the job. He never even considered that the name of
    the font was the name of the publishing company.\r\n\r\nIn the end I made some
    design changes to the font, and everybody were happy.\r\n\r\nBut here you see
    how fonts are appreciated."
  created: '2010-01-29 00:42:45'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "IMO, people don\u2019t even notice they are doing something bad. Or they
    know, but they don\u2019t care because it\u2019s very unlikely to get caught.
    And some other people think that designing typefaces is not a big deal, so they
    feel the prices are too high: they pirate fonts because for them the prices are
    abusive in the first place.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nThat said, I can
    think of a possible motivation: to get the job.\r\n\r\nLet\u2019s say that a publisher
    wants to do a book in Quadraat, a not so expensive typeface (because that\u2019s
    the way the collection is or whatever other reason). He asks two freelances: the
    first one can do the job for $1000 + $204 for the four basic styles of FF Quadraat
    OT. The second one is pirating the fonts, so he can do the job for just $1000
    (BTW, he has not only the four basic styles, but the whole family). Who will get
    the job? In my experience, the publisher will not care about licenses, he only
    wants his book the way he likes it. The \u201Cgood\u201D freelance can license
    Quadraat this time with his own money and keep it for him (investment), but tomorrow
    he is going to need another one and the next week a new one that most likely he
    will never use again\u2026 You get the picture.\r\n\r\nIn an ideal world, in these
    cases you should charge your client for the font licenses. In the real world,
    since not everyone is playing fairly, trying to do that may mean not to get any
    job at all.\r\n\r\n(Did I say that nobody has asked me to do a book in two years
    or so? But it\u2019s ok, since I\u2019ve been forced to do type design.)"
  created: '2010-01-30 06:27:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I can see the reasons people use pirated fonts (either not wanting to pay
    or not knowing about licensing), so my question is why people would share fonts
    in the first place. If you spend money licensing fonts, you know they are not
    free. Why would you then share them with others? It's not like it benefits you
    to share stuff you've spent money on.
  created: '2010-01-30 12:11:08'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "I see these options:\r\n\r\n<em>a</em>) You license the typeface, but a very
    close friend of you wants it too. Why don\u2019t give it to him? Tomorrow he can
    do the same for you. Buy one, get two (or three, or four).\r\n<em>b</em>) The
    company licenses the typeface, the employee not. He copies it from the company
    computer to his personal computer. He shares it with a very close friend (see
    <em>a</em>). The cycle starts again.\r\n<em>c</em>) You license the typeface.
    You need that some other people (prepress service, an employee) gets the font
    in order to complete the job. You give it to them. They don\u2019t erase the files
    after the job is done. They share it with a very close friend (see <em>a</em>),
    or someone in the prepress service copies the file into his personal computer
    (see <em>b</em>). The cycle starts again.\r\n<em>d</em>) If I got the typeface
    from <em>a</em>, <em>b</em> or <em>c</em>, I didn\u2019t pay for it. Why not upload
    it? Not my lost! This way everyone can use this lovely typeface, and tomorrow
    I will get some other typefaces that somebody else will upload, and at the end
    everybody will have an awesome collection available at every moment. And free!
    It is great, isn\u2019t it? Well, yes, that\u2019s like stealing, but nobody gets
    hurt, the big foundries are rich anyway and the type designers\u2026 well, they
    need to get another job or change the way they distribute their typefaces because
    in this globalised world everything is changing and the information should be
    free and I don\u2019t have the money to pay for it but I really need that typeface
    and blah, blah, blah.\r\n\r\nBut we still doing typefaces\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-30 16:54:49'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Oh, I forgot: if you get the typeface from <em>d</em>), you\u2019ll probably
    feel free to give it to your best friend when he needs it (see <em>a</em>) or
    use it when your client refuses to pay the license to make your job (see <em>c</em>)."
  created: '2010-01-30 18:44:17'
- author:
    name: opwann
  body: "I'd like to think that even those who download and use pirated fonts would
    actually rather be paying for them. Most designers know - even amateurs - that
    a well designed typeface can take months, even years to create. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    many up and coming designers are too poor to buy the typefaces they would really
    like to be experimenting with. As a result, they will resort to torrents and other
    file sharing methods to get the fonts they want to use.\r\n\r\nI'd argue that
    most of these same people, once they've become more established in the design
    world, will purchase all the fonts they use. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 04:46:37'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: "You guys don't have a clue as to who the font pirates really are. Let me
    break it down for you. Roughly 6% are actually in the design industry. Mostly
    coming from 3rd world piss holes like Bolivia or Zimbabwe, and make less than
    a peso a project. The major bulk are those who download a font, stress on 'A'
    as in 1, to decorate their Myspace pages with. The last group comprises of about
    22%, of the true Font Pirates who collect typefaces like Chuck Davis collects
    Beanie Babies. These people admire type but only use them in avatars or signatures
    for their favorite warez forum, or any forum for that matter. And then there's
    me, less than 1% of the above 22% that also releases just to piss Fontographers
    off.\r\n\r\nThough there may be some examples as above, there is no grand conspiracy
    of corporate greed to use your work without compensation. That's just your wishful
    thinking. A large portion of the faces are bought by pirates for the sole purpose
    of sharing among other pirates. Only about a quarter are actually extracted from
    files. And then those end up at a torrent tracker for the Myspace kiddies. The
    pay is usually distributed among many people. You get 100 people paying $5 for
    a $500 font its all win/win for everyone.\r\n\r\nYou can buy that starving artits
    bullshit if you want to. Fact is, you're all just tools. Make us these fonts,
    make them good, and if you no longer make them then you no longer matter. Someone
    else will gladly pick up where you left off. Many of you don't spend months making
    fonts. Like Richard Kegler, you just scan public domain books and artwork and
    copyright the digitizations- claiming the glyph designs as your own original works.
    A day to run scans through scanfont, a day or 2 to adjust the kerning. Maybe another
    day to poorly re-create the nonexistent characters like the elipses or tilde.
    Or you could be like Nick Curtis and crap out 3 to 5 sub-par-yet-original typefaces
    every month.\r\n\r\nAs for the original poster, all you need to do is Google top
    10 torrent trackers. Then search for the font names, then foundry, then designer.
    You will find a lot of crap. Mostly Lino/mono/itc anti-p2p groups releasing dafont
    font packages to show you what you can get for free. Ugly fonts, like from Ray
    Larabie et al( BTW Ray, overexposure? You wish you could create a font half as
    famous as Helvetica). Don't listen to Nick Cooke either, I torrented his recent
    additions the other day. Just don't search for 'Fonts'."
  created: '2010-02-05 09:58:25'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Where did you get your figures from?\r\n\r\n>And then there's me, less than
    1% of the above 22% that also releases just to piss Fontographers off\r\n\r\nWhy? "
  created: '2010-02-05 10:04:52'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: ">Where did you get your figures from?\r\n\r\nBy associating with a vast majority
    of colleagues over the past several years. Forums, tracker comments, newsgroups.
    People talk in community environments. The font piracy community is very small.
    It ALL comes from the same ~2000 people. And its not about the Weiden Kennedy
    guy sharing Stainless to his inept designer friend in Norway so he can make extra
    money. \r\n\r\nDon't take my post too hard. Consider it an informative PSA to
    the Fontographer community. Not all of you are going to make millions sueing a
    company like NBC for a $100 font. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 10:27:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: What a jerk.
  created: '2010-02-05 10:54:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">The font piracy community is very small\r\n\r\nPerhaps so, but if they're
    uploading stuff to the internet then that's a vast number of potential unlicensed
    users.\r\n\r\n>Many of you don't spend months making fonts.\r\n\r\nI disagree.
    Most of the type designers here are very painstaking and professional. Whilst
    I agree there are plenty of crappy fonts out there and digitisations that aren't
    very creative, if you take a look around this site you'll see there's some very
    funky, original stuff going on. It's a real shame the industry is so taken for
    granted."
  created: '2010-02-05 11:31:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ nkautz\r\n\r\nIn my opinion it is okay, to use unlicensed fonts for testing
    purposes. If you use p2p-networks you have to suppress the upload of the files
    you download, as far as the stuff is copyright protected (and as far as you don\u2019t
    want to spread out the stuff). Otherwise you spread the files out likewise and
    you cannot know, for which other people use the stuff. Naturally these networks
    cannot work, if nobody uploads anything. What I want to say is, that there is
    a difference between having unlicensed fonts and getting them, because getting
    them is very often connected with spreading them out. Some file hosters delete
    files, if they were not downloaded for a certain time. If you download them, they
    will not be deleted.\r\n\r\n@ VBM\r\n\r\nBe fair to Ray Larabie! You are partly
    right in my opinion, but totally arrogant. Maybe because typedesigners have also
    a tendency to be arrogant, probably because most people are unable to consciously
    recognize their work. Only the best ones survive? That is an illusion! Art is
    a fucking market today! My father is a great sculptor, but he is not a modern
    artist. He ever was unable to manage himself. He never was interested in the fucking
    market. And he is absolute incorruptible. If quality always would count, he would
    be a very rich man. And with regard to typefaces: What do you think, why there
    are so many (too many!) good new sans serifs, but so few good serifs? That\u2019s
    market! And pirates are not a selector in evolution of art. That is a lie.\r\n\r\n@
    Nick Cooke\r\n\r\n<cite>People who run torrent sites should be put against a wall
    and machine-gunned.</cite>\r\n\r\nShame on you!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 12:04:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Shame on me? Why?\r\n\r\nSure, it was a flippant remark, but these people
    actively support criminal activity. I have no respect for these scum. And VBM
    actually states his occupation as font pirate on his profile - does he expect
    a warm welcome from this site full of type designers? He's a contemptible asshole.
    What does 'I torrented his recent additions the other day' mean? he's giving my
    stuff away to all and sundry?\r\nYeah thanks, I'd like to undermine your livelihood
    too."
  created: '2010-02-05 12:21:43'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Why?</cite>\r\n\r\n1. I am strictly against death penalty.\r\n\r\n2.
    You are naive, because you never will be able to prevent copyright violations
    in the internet. Instead of whining, you should explain to the people, how much
    time and energy you invest in developing fonts, how many fonts you sell and that
    the price of a font is not usury. Many of the people, that you call pirates, simply
    don\u2019t know about your efforts. And many of them think, art is just fun, but
    not blood, sweat and tears. Many of them are kids, that are watching fucking big
    brother, fucking casting shows and other fucking trash.\r\n\r\n3. The copyright
    violations are simply the price for the freedom of the web. Learn to live with
    that! The alternative would be total control and fascism and even there pirates
    are finding the gaps."
  created: '2010-02-05 12:47:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: Ahhh, those poor misunderstood pirates.
  created: '2010-02-05 13:22:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1. Nick Cooke:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"People who run torrent sites should be put
    against a wall and machine-gunned.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n2. Arno Enslin:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Shame
    on you!\"</cite>\r\n\r\n3. Nick Cooke:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Shame on me? Why?\"</cite>\r\n\r\n4.
    Arno Enslin:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I am strictly against death penalty.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYears
    ago, I characterized this funny font industry as\r\n\r\n<strong>The Scum of Typography</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/index.html#ESCORIAL\r\n\r\nNothing
    has changed ever since."
  created: '2010-02-05 13:31:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '23.4% of the people in this thread are wrong. '
  created: '2010-02-05 13:50:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick Cooke\r\n\r\nThere are a few typedesigners only, that document the
    development of their work on their websites. A normal person cannot comprehend,
    how much time and energy you invest in the developement of a font. Why for example
    don\u2019t you store a kind of diary of development on your websites?\r\n\r\nBeing
    aggressive is counterproductive. Wasted time. And the very most pirates would
    not buy a font, just because they can\u2019t get it illegally. The problem are
    the people, that make money with the work, for which they have used unlicensed
    fonts. The main fault of the pirates, that collect fonts just for fun, is, that
    the real bad guys get access to the unlicensed fonts. Do you understand the difference?
    The collectors just say: \xBBWhat can be so bad in collecting fonts, I am not
    using them for commercial purposes?\xAB But without them the real bad guys would
    not get these fonts.\r\n\r\n@ Uli\r\n\r\nHier geht\u2019s gerade nicht um die
    Herstellung und den Verkauf von Plagiaten, sondern um die illegale Verteilung
    unver\xE4nderter, auch nach deiner Rechtsauslegung gesch\xFCtzter Fonts (Schrift-Dateien)
    und deren Nutzung. Und da gibt es praktisch keinen Markt, jedenfalls praktisch
    keinen, auf dem die Fonts verkauft werden. Vielleicht kannst du ausnahmsweise
    mal darauf verzichten, eine Diskussion \xFCber Urheberrechtsverletzungen durch
    Typedesigner anzuzetteln. Unrecht rechtfertigt jedenfalls kein Unrecht."
  created: '2010-02-05 14:06:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nA normal person cannot comprehend, how much time and energy
    you invest in the developement of a font. Why for example don\u2019t you store
    a kind of diary of development on your websites?\r\n\r\n1) I can't be bothered.\r\n\r\n2)
    I'm too busy working for a living. It would take too long and I can't spare the
    time.\r\n\r\n3) Who would be interested?\r\n\r\n4) Lighten up everybody. I wasn't
    seriously suggesting shooting people.\r\n\r\nAnd they say Germans have no sense
    of humour ;^) Maybe it's something to do with the language being so very literal.\r\n\r\nHow
    many people have I managed to offend now?"
  created: '2010-02-05 14:09:10'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick Cooke\r\n\r\n<cite>Who would be interested?</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe those
    people, that ask other people, if they can share THIS font, followed by a link
    to your website!"
  created: '2010-02-05 14:30:33'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: "@ Nick Cooke\r\nDon't cry about it. Life sucks, move on. I gave you valid
    information. Disregard it and live in your own fantasies for all I care. I was
    getting tired of reading all of the imaginary conjectures about a sub culture
    you people knew nothing about and only speculated over.\r\n\r\nI'm not an asshole
    Nick, I'm THE Asshole. I have a title. I included profile information here solely
    for your own personal amusement. Glad you enjoyed it. And you can't possibly ruin
    my livelihood. I was smart enough to choose a career that didn't revolve around
    distributing easily copy-able digital content. I bet you're the type to leave
    a wad of cash taped to the roof of your car in a clear plastic bag and parked
    curb side. You might as well. And then you bitch and whine about it getting 'stolen'.
    \r\n\r\nAnd yes, that's exactly what I meant by 'torrented'. As in, currently
    seeding Organon Sans and Serif. Its gotten 31 Downloads which is the most any
    of your other fonts have received. Congratulations! \r\n\r\n@Arno Enslin \r\nWhen
    you disagree with me about the time it takes designers to create fonts, don't
    you think that that may be due to their lack of skill? That they're incompetent
    as designers and or Opentype Format 'programmers'? If they had real talent, then
    time wouldn't be an issue. Ok, in Nick Curtis & Ray Larabie's case they obviously
    have a lot of creativity. They have mad ideas pouring out, but lack the skill
    to refine their ideas into quality type. That can be changed by them through effort.
    Now compare them to the idiots that take a year just to come up with an original
    idea, and whose skills are so poor it takes them another 6 months just to get
    310 glyphs aligned right. Would you disagree that Ale Paul or Neil Summerour are
    great type designers? They put out quality fonts and even superfamilies every
    year. Different typefaces about every 2 months. Maybe those long-term types should
    look for a new job.\r\n\r\nI already stated that we do buy fonts, and that they're
    not used outside of personal images. Its not whether you agree with it or not.
    That's just how it is. Like I said, there's no conspiracy of designers trading
    typefaces to save money or to smite your EULA. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 06:24:06'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ VBM\r\n\r\nOpenType programming does not cost much time in relation to
    the other work, even if you are not talented and even if you program such complex
    features like the ones in some P22 fonts (Operina) for example.\r\n\r\nAnd in
    my opinion a designer, that creates one small, but perfect typeface family in
    his live, is better than a designer, that creates dozens of half baked typefaces.
    Except from that I am not really interested in script or deco fonts. I am even
    not very interested in sans serif fonts. I am fascinated by poesy/knowledge transporters
    \u2013 typefaces made for continues reading of hundreds of pages. And this part
    of typedesign seems to be less lucrative than designing display fonts. If book
    (or newspaper) fonts are used without a license in commercial projects, the consequence
    is not only fatal, because the typedesigner looses money, but also because he
    maybe decides not to invest time and energy in developing a book font anymore.\r\n\r\nExcept
    from that you simply don\u2019t have the right to decide, which price is fair
    and which is not. And it is an impudence, that you want to define, what an acceptable
    tempo for the developing of a typeface is. On the one side you admire the individuality
    of typefaces. On the other side you are a slave driver. I assume, you are not
    able to see the invested time, the quality of the kerning of a well made font
    for example. You just see the single letters. (In my <em>opinion</em> the prices
    of DTL and TEFF fonts are too high in relation. I doubt, that these prices mirror
    the work only, but I think, that they are part of business politics. But this
    does not give anyone the right, to use the fonts illegally.) As I said, for me
    it is okay, if \u201Cfont loving\u201D people, that are not rich, use commercial
    fonts for uncommercial use. But in the moment, in which they earn money with the
    work, for which they have used a commercial font, they should license it. And
    I think, that a person, that has a private website, on which he extensively uses
    a commercial font, also should license it. However, most unlicensed fonts, that
    are stored on the harddisks of font collectors, never will be used. And many people
    are collecting fonts, just because they are expensive. \u201CLoving fonts\u201D
    is very relative.\r\n\r\n<cite>I already stated that we do buy fonts, and that
    they're not used outside of personal images. Its not whether you agree with it
    or not. That's just how it is.</cite>\r\n\r\nNevertheless I partly agree, because
    the very most people, that use fonts for private use in small projects, would
    not license the font, if they could not find it on warez forums.\r\n\r\n<cite>Like
    I said, there's no conspiracy of designers trading typefaces to save money or
    to smite your EULA.</cite>\r\n\r\nVBM, there are designers, that make money with
    their work, with logos for example, that are not willing to license a font, if
    they can get it from a warez forum. And people like you, that use the fonts for
    their personal use, support those people indirectly.\r\n\r\nOne word to EULA:
    They are often a bad joke, especially with regard to embedding and changing anything
    in the fonts (except from the copyright info). I am fixing bugs by myself, if
    I can.\r\n\r\n<cite>I already stated that we do buy fonts, and that they're not
    used outside of personal images.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou, but the very most pirates
    do not. It simply is not enough, if five of five thousands people by a font. It
    is not enough money for living (inclusively buying a Hermann Miller Aero chair
    against back pain [I came over the chair-thread yesterday.]).\r\n\r\nVBM, there
    is a psychological phenomenon. People have a tendency to find justifications for
    their doing always. I know that from myself. But I am intelligent enough, to detected
    justifications, that are overconstructed and absolute synthetical. If I recognize,
    that I am doing something, that is immoral, something for which I am trying to
    find a justification, which is the opposite of simple, I decide between the following
    alternatives: Doing it, although I know, that it is immoral, or stopping it. Everything
    else would mean lying to myself."
  created: '2010-02-06 10:19:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "@ VBM\r\nYou're too funny. You shouldn't believe everything I say. I can
    stand a few losses due to pirate downloads; as they say 'Any publicity is good
    publicity' so I look upon it as unpaid advertising (apart from the lost sales),
    which is more than recouped by people seeing my stuff in use and legitimate honest
    users then buying it.\r\n\r\nI believe that most people are honest and feel a
    bit grubby about handling stolen property, but I am quite aware that many of them
    are unaware they are doing anything wrong when downloading from torrent sites,
    as you say it's easily copyable digital content. Thankfully the majority respect
    the amount of work and creativity that goes into producing typefaces and are willing
    to pay for it.\r\n\r\nBTW, on the occasions that I leave my gated hilltop mansion
    for a meeting with a huge multinational for an extortionate fee, my chauffeur
    usually sits in the Bentley waiting upon my return, so your fanciful scenario
    would be extremely unlikely.\r\n\r\nSo, well done for the work on Organon on my
    behalf and keep up the good work!\r\nOh yes, what is the 'career' that you so
    smartly chose? and what job satisfaction do you derive from being a pirate? Seems
    a bit pointless to me, on a par with spam emailing."
  created: '2010-02-06 14:52:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ VBM\r\n\r\n<cite>And yes, that's exactly what I meant by 'torrented'. As
    in, currently seeding Organon Sans and Serif. Its gotten 31 Downloads which is
    the most any of your other fonts have received. Congratulations!</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you want to say? That the number of downloads or sells is an indication of
    quality?\r\n\r\n@ Nick Cooke (and partly VBM)\r\n\r\nIf you find the time, download
    that Organon, from which VBM is talking, and tell us, if it is still your Organon
    with regard to the quality, because many fonts are just extracted from PDF or
    CSS (provided via Typekit). And what do you think about the following?: Do you
    prefer, if people extract your fonts and spread them out, or do you prefer, if
    they spread out your fonts in original condition? I mean, what do you think is
    the consequence of extracts for your reputation? Is the scenario, that some people
    are not licensing your fonts, because they came over an extract, from which they
    think, that it is the original font, realistic?\r\n\r\nAnd I would be interested,
    how often Organon was sold up till now and how much time you had invested.\r\n\r\nBack
    to the topic: I think, you cannot really test fonts on Myfonts. The decision to
    license a font or not, is much easier, if you can test it in your project \u2013
    directly in the application."
  created: '2010-02-06 16:19:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Thanks for the Saturday morning read "<a href="http://typophile.com/user/16926">firstname
    lastname</a>."
  created: '2010-02-06 16:19:56'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: "@ Nick Cooke\r\nSee, free fonts meets free advertising. Its all win/win.
    How about you shoot me an e-mail with your FTP login details so I can keep on
    benefiting you on your behalf with all of your future and past typefaces? I mean
    lets just cut straight to it. You obviously agree that its the best scenario for
    your business.\r\n\r\nHa. If only you had a butler watching over your Opentypes...\r\n\r\nBeing
    a pirate has great job satisfaction, I get more 'booty' than Tiger Woods. Women
    just really love getting a Wide Sans. Arrggghh. \r\n\r\n@ Christopher Dean \r\nOf
    course it is. And it has gone up to 32 now. Record Breaker! Aesthetics are everything.
    You think you are selling the software, but people are 'buying' the image. The
    quality isn't measured by the kerning, x-height, or how well you arrange the OpenType
    tables. Its in the visual aesthetics. The wow factor of how it catches the 'buyer'.
    If it doesn't wow them, they won't buy it or download it. So how can you say its
    a quality product?\r\n\r\nAbout 1 in 10 weights are extracts in the first year.
    After the second an original is usually bought or found and that drops it to 1
    in 877 (I counted) The quality is the same glyph-wise. You can lose metrics and
    kerning, but so what. You will most certainly have to customize the kerning anyway
    in Photoshop to suit your needs. Unless you buy fonts to use in Word or Outlook.
    Then you're screwed. If you're a font pirate however, you can get Fontlab for
    free too and fix all that. \r\n\r\nYou also forgot about Flash extracts & image
    extracts. Lots of great raster to vector apps out there that can turn a jpeg into
    an identical font outline. Then there's SQL injections on Myfonts, FSI, HypeForType
    etc. "
  created: '2010-02-11 11:20:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ VBM:\r\n\r\nChristopher Dean: \"<em>Thanks for the Saturday morning read
    \"firstname lastname</em>.\"\r\n\r\nVBM: \"<em>@ Christopher Dean. Of course it
    is. And it has gone up to 32 now. Record Breaker! Aesthetics are everything. You
    think you are selling the software</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nAre we having the same conversation?
    I haven't mentioned aesthetics or software anywhere in this thread. Are you referencing
    another thread?\r\n\r\nActually, never mind. I just read <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/54734\">your
    profile</a>. I'm sorry I even dignified this with a response and bumped the thread.
    I'll leave the post as it is though."
  created: '2010-02-11 13:41:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Editing appears to double post?
  created: '2010-02-11 13:42:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ VBM\r\n\r\n<cite>Of course it is. And it has gone up to 32 now. Record
    Breaker! Aesthetics are everything. You think you are selling the software, but
    people are 'buying' the image. The quality isn't measured by the kerning, x-height,
    or how well you arrange the OpenType tables. Its in the visual aesthetics. The
    wow factor of how it catches the 'buyer'. If it doesn't wow them, they won't buy
    it or download it. So how can you say its a quality product?</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>About
    1 in 10 weights are extracts in the first year. After the second an original is
    usually bought or found and that drops it to 1 in 877 (I counted) The quality
    is the same glyph-wise. You can lose metrics and kerning, but so what. You will
    most certainly have to customize the kerning anyway in Photoshop to suit your
    needs. Unless you buy fonts to use in Word or Outlook. Then you're screwed. If
    you're a font pirate however, you can get Fontlab for free too and fix all that.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    you probably have recognized, I was not your enemy. But now you started to post
    really bloody fucking bullshit! The asterisks come from the board software! As
    I already have written above, I have grown up with art. My father is an ignorant
    against everything else than art inclusively me (as long as he cannot process
    the information, that he gets from the outer space [and the space is he himself]
    for his art). An asshole as father, but a great artist. In the moment an artist
    (and designing body text typefaces is not pure art!) begins to create anything
    just for the simple minded eyes and ears of the public, he is less than a whore.
    (I love whores, as long as they don\u2019t claim to make art.) You are such a
    rough \u2013 person. The whole is important, but the details are likewise important,
    namely for the whole. And in typedesign the details are often good, if they are
    not recognized by pure readers. Making art dependent from the market is pure decadence.
    In a decadent world the good does not survive anymore."
  created: '2010-02-12 12:29:28'
date: '2010-01-22 09:45:48'
node_type: forum
title: torrent tracker for browsing fonts, collections?

---
