---
author:
  name: Tomi from Suomi
  picture: 111488
body: "Hi-\r\n\r\nThis is an idea I've been mulling over for a day or two: could we
  as a web community design a font for Typophile?\r\n\r\nThis font/font family would
  be owned by Typophile, and all royalties would go directly to the same place donations
  would, and rights would be managed by the same people handling the funds for the
  site, and all designers would agree that this is all done for sole purpose of funding
  the community, and the administrators would agree to use the profits of the font
  to be used only for Typophile.\r\n\r\nWe could all participate in the design; swap
  font files weekly or monthly with willing designers, and have ongoing critique online.\r\n\r\nTo
  kickstart this, I already have a .vfb-file done with just about most neutral glyphs
  I can draw, to get things going:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypophileSans_3662.png]\r\n\r\nThis
  is just to test the ice; I do not know if this is legally/contractually possible
  to do, or even if people are interested in this.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?"
comments:
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: 'Rewritten for accuracy: Could the Typophile community, most of whose designers
    can barely make a living at type, come together to design a typeface for the benefit
    of an ill-defined for-profit enterprise? All royalties would go to the same ill-defined
    private owners donations do, all rights would be managed not by designers but
    by these ill-defined third parties, and all designers would agree that this is
    all done for the sole purpose of enriching the ill-defined private owners, and
    those owners would agree to  keep all the money for themselves.'
  created: '2010-01-23 19:53:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, are you ill?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 19:56:43'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Wow - I did not see this coming\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-23 20:00:44'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Well, if it need to be a Thypophile typeface, it should be troll-spiced too,
    for authenticity! ;-)
  created: '2010-01-23 21:06:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Joe, I think that you need to find a new dealer. The regular guy seems to
    be spicing your crack with asshole dust.
  created: '2010-01-23 21:10:05'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Well said, Riccardo-\r\n\r\nAnd very carefully non-committally as well\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    don't know if this is really stupid idea, but I am not suggesting that we give
    the font away, like Joe Clark seems to suggest, but to make a font to help this
    community. I believe there are people in this community who can handle the pressure
    of getting the hunderds of dollars this font can make, and still keep their integrity,
    and use that money for Typophile. Or beer :\xB7)"
  created: '2010-01-23 21:17:57'
- author:
    name: von
    picture: 116650
  body: "I think this is a great concept that we could get some steam going about
    typophile and the process of creating a face. So for those who consider the public
    to be uneducated on the industry and process. Lets use this to educate and facilitate
    the importance of designers/architects of typography.\r\n\r\nI guess the first
    thing to do would be to make a list of goals/aims... Would this be the new face
    for the website..."
  created: '2010-01-23 21:55:01'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hi, Jess-\r\n\r\nIndeed. This could in fact teach us as well. This is just
    a start of an idea, so it would be good to figure out some things to start with;
    character set should be as wide as possible, but can we include katakana, and
    full Chinese?. And a simpler question: serif or script or sans?"
  created: '2010-01-23 22:17:39'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Let's call it Clark Sans.
  created: '2010-01-23 23:23:31'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Oh yes; that should make things ever so much easier. Thank you for your input.
  created: '2010-01-23 23:47:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>a simpler question: serif or script or sans?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy, of
    course a superfamily! ;-)"
  created: '2010-01-24 00:00:50'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Well, that's what I was thinking of. How on earth could Typophile be a single
    family?
  created: '2010-01-24 00:06:38'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It is what I have always dreamed of Jos :-)\r\n\r\nBut it cannot have any
    chirographic elements!\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-24 14:21:00'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Agreed. That's why the working title should contain sans ;)
  created: '2010-01-24 16:35:22'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Let's call it Clark Sans.</em> Genius!\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:51:54'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Toni, I think this is a very complex project but why not, I'm sure there are
    lots of people who will participate. People can't help but give their two cents.
  created: '2010-01-24 16:53:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, you could try what Tomi has been\r\ntrying: making <em>half</em>
    of the outlines chiro!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:56:39'
- author:
    name: andrijtype
    picture: 110703
  body: "nice idea, Tomi. \r\nand i can draw some cyrillics"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:57:59'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Tomi. Not Toni. Sincere apologies. I give up today. Signing off.\r\n(Hrant
    knows what I mean)"
  created: '2010-01-24 17:14:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: It might be cute do something like <a href="Ransome note" [title="http://www.dafont.com/ransom-note.font"]>Ransome
    note</a>.
  created: '2010-01-25 00:26:13'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: I like the idea of a Frankenstein typeface. It would have to be a pretty simple
    display face with limited options, but it would still be have fun to have.
  created: '2010-01-25 17:13:20'
- author:
    name: funk_king
    picture: 118852
  body: "we did this on Fontstruct with FS Collaboration 1: http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/fs_collaboration_1.
    also posted here: http://www.1001fonts.com/font_details.html?font_id=3531.\r\n\r\ni
    think it was easier to do there because we were able to use Fontstruct to create
    the font in one place. i think doing a project like this here would be more difficult,
    but probably not impossible.\r\n\r\ni think deciding the theme is the first step
    and defining the process would be the next. we learned a lot along the way, but
    there will definitely be a need to define rules of the game as the process proceeds.\r\n\r\ni
    think probably somebody just needs to start the ball rolling, pass the baton,
    and see what develops. those who are interested will participate and others will
    enjoy watching from the sidelines. beyond any desire to make money, you probably
    should focus on having a finished product; then cross that next bridge when necessary
    :)\r\n\r\nwhy not a bunch of typophile veterans doing some cross-pollination at
    Fontstruct? just a suggestion."
  created: '2010-01-25 19:32:59'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Answer some questions, if you would, instead of avoiding them:\r\n\r\n<ul><li>Who
    would be the undisputed owner of the typeface?</li>\r\n<li>What exact \u201Chelp\u201D
    for which exact \u201Ccommunity\u201D\_would be provided?</li>\r\n<li>How much
    money would the for-profit owners of this site reap as the result of the deal?</li>\r\n</ul>"
  created: '2010-01-25 21:40:10'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: 'joeclark: No one has avoided any questions yet, because you have not yet
    asked any. You have merely, rather off-puttingly, disparaged an idea that could
    contribute to the value and richness of this type community. Let''s try and keep
    things positive.'
  created: '2010-01-26 01:38:07'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "@joeclark\r\n\r\n<em>Who would be the undisputed owner of the typeface?</em>
    -[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pc_6543.png]\r\n\r\n<em>What exact \u201Chelp\u201D
    for which exact \u201Ccommunity\u201D would be provided?</em> \r\n\r\n-Paying
    for bandwith and maintenance for this 'community' that you are technically a part
    of.\r\n\r\n<em>How much money would the for-profit owners of this site reap as
    the result of the deal?</em> \r\n\r\n-At least one more wheelbarrow's worth to
    add to the small mountain of money that they're 'reaping' from all of us.\r\n\r\n*AND
    the 'ill defined' reaping third parties are defined just below the post here at
    the bottom. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/pc_6543.png]"
  created: '2010-01-26 02:39:38'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: 'as a nobody normal graphic designer who probably could not contribute to
    this project in any way other than by buying the font - i say yay! do it! just
    make it something people want to buy. '
  created: '2010-01-26 14:40:03'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Just a thought \u2013 how about not making something to sell, but rather
    a custom font exclusively for web use at typophile.com?"
  created: '2010-01-26 15:57:39'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: The beauty of a project like this is that anyone can contribute. You don't
    have to be a typographic expert. It can be something as simple as critique and
    feedback.
  created: '2010-01-26 16:00:31'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: "I'll design the bullet glyph. Here's a preliminary rendering:\r\n\r\n\u2022\r\n\r\nWhat's
    my cut?"
  created: '2010-01-26 20:43:16'
- author:
    name: Sulekha Rajkumar
  body: "I'm interested...but how does one go about this? When you say contribute
    how would we do it? \r\n\r\nI have a suggestion...(But mainly for display fonts)\r\n\r\nIf
    it is a Display font:  A master grid for the typeface can be designed (by someone
    from Punchcut?), and we design characters based on that grid and post them. So
    each character would be different, designed from a different designer, but yet
    have synergy to it. Obviously, people would compare it to the other characters
    and modify their own.\r\n\r\nEither way, I'd like to be part of this. But let
    us know HOW!"
  created: '2010-01-27 09:09:41'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: Please, don't do a FrankenFont, it'll end up just like the <a href="http://www.qbn.com/topics/603321">QBN</a>
    <a href="http://i.imgur.com/gQc8L.png">Typeface</a> I participated in (was good
    fun though).
  created: '2010-01-27 12:31:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Please, don't do a FrankenFont</cite>\r\n\r\nDitto."
  created: '2010-01-27 14:30:57'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: "<em>Please, don't do a FrankenFont</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Ditto.</em>\r\n\r\nthirded\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 14:51:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, no walking corpses, but forget about doing a text font.\r\n\r\nFor mass-collaboration
    to yield something other people would pay money for, there will have to be as
    much talking as drawing. For example, even something basic like arriving at good
    vertical proportions will require a good amount of iteration and an eventual general
    consensus. Assuming there will be a large number of people working on this, I
    can imagine the necessity of: having some sort of polling mechanism; people dropping
    off over time. We have to plan for such things before we smack this thing with
    the Moet, otherwise the iceberg will get us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 15:03:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Tomi from Suomi > Wow - I did not see this coming\u2026\r\n\r\nIt's... like
    a quiet country lane, butterflies and buttercups, a hedge with overhanging roses
    clinging to a sunny outcrop of rock, which is suddenly jumped by a roaring spike
    and stud infested off-road biker with a barf gun. Pay no attention, the gun's
    not loaded.\r\n\r\n>To kickstart this, I already have a .vfb-file done with just
    about most neutral glyphs I can draw\r\n\r\nFor years I have offered the opinion
    that the time was not right, that the specification cannot be completed for such
    a font. Of course it never can be with the moving target we have, but a full enough
    specification, I think is possible, and this design fits the spec from what I
    can see, (and assuming it's being tracked for display use). \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello, everybody-\r\n\r\nFrom your posts I gathered that we should make a
    large family with no Frankensteining, and no chiropractic back-bending, and it
    should not be a text face, and it could be a font used in typophile.com. (Nina,
    I think we can do both). And that we should forget the whole thing because those
    greedy motherwhatevers will just do whatever they do to us from behind.\r\n\r\nI
    suggest that we start with a single weight (I've started that already), and start
    critique with that (it has enough glyphs to start with), and move on from that
    point:\r\n\r\nI think, looking those glyphs, that x-height compared to ascender
    and weight is not too bad, but I would like the dot to be heavier. I'm Finnish,
    so for me it is too wide, but others should address that from their perspective.
    \r\n\r\nI think this is a long process, so just keep posting. We should be done
    in a year or two. Or, we'll see."
  created: '2010-01-27 22:06:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think we should start with a basis done by one person.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 22:29:53'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Oh, that is just going to be one of a neverending series of compromises we'll
    have to make if this is actually going to get off the ground. A non-Frankenstein
    and successful collaborative font where everyone puts in an equal share... Riiight.
    Like how every discussion on Typophile ends up converging into a grand consensus
    and everybody agrees perfectly with each other.\r\n\r\nI don't want to sound discouraging
    and I would love to be proved wrong, but until there's a powerful font creation
    software residing in the 'cloud' (like Fontstruct) to simplify the collaboration
    process, and some sort of decision-making structure is put in place to resolve
    the inevitable disagreements, I don't really see this gaining any traction."
  created: '2010-01-27 22:51:05'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hrant, I started this, and nobody has come up with another base design. I
    want this to get going, and that's why I posted an image with this thread: to
    get feedback, and start some Darwin-like evolving. It's his year after all.\r\n\r\nBut
    my apologies, if I try to hog the start. The goal is to make a font family for
    Typophile. So, ideas are indeed welcome."
  created: '2010-01-27 22:51:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK.\r\n\r\nDo you have a \"g\" yet?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 23:01:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'd love to prove myself wrong now because I was thinking the same thing
    Jongseong said. But I'm out \u2013 I barely have enough time to work on my own
    stuff. :-\\"
  created: '2010-01-27 23:12:21'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Not yet; I've been waiting for the different responses from you guys, and
    see where to from there.\r\n\r\nBut you'll have your own Q. I still remember your
    presentation in Boston, and I think that if youd'd told us that it was upper case,
    we could have had a chance. This is not what you showed us, but I think it's close:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q_3890.png]\r\nIt
    was some ten years ago, but I still remember that presentation. It was good. Gave
    me something to think about, when I was really starting serious type design."
  created: '2010-01-27 23:24:55'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Nina, critique from you would be plenty. You have a very good eye.
  created: '2010-01-27 23:27:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tomi, you were at my Boston talk? Cool. And thanks for the compliment.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see the \"Q\" here:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trajic.html\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo
    wait, we're getting assigned the characters?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 23:41:13'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Bugger; I remembered the font but not the actual form. Got the idea, though\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    no, not assigning characters; that would quickly send us to Frankenfonts, or an
    neverending argument of the right way to start this endeavor. But there might
    be a place for your \"Q\"."
  created: '2010-01-27 23:50:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe as an alt.\r\n\r\nOK, I'm going to make a \"g\" and a \"Q\" (with no
    expectations).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 01:14:32'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: It could be interesting, although it sounds a bit like design by committee...
    ;)
  created: '2010-01-28 01:26:33'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Well, It's up to you.
  created: '2010-01-28 02:22:53'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I just start the font, and after a week or so we shall have our firs critique.
    After that we'll see.
  created: '2010-01-28 02:29:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, if you object let me know.\r\nIf not, please give me \"Ohor\" in EPS.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 02:50:42'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello, all-\r\n\r\nSorry; I've been more busy than I thought, so here's a
    very basic start for Typophile font. Sorry about that. To my eye this is either
    too basic or then it has too much character.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_5077.png]\r\nAnd
    Hrant; I think you should have all the characters you want <:\xB7)\r\n\r\nAny
    suggestions of other than weight would be welcome; I've just build this for comments.
    So, stress, contrast, width, or anything you'd like to comment on."
  created: '2010-02-05 23:33:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Do we make a list of who's working on this, or just let people jump in?\r\n\r\n2)
    Since we're not assigning characters, anybody can work on anything, right? The
    potential for disaster is great, but it could also be quite rewarding. So what
    we need I guess is: a public (or semi-public) place where work files are stored;
    and a simple versioning system where people can branch off, but a branch can be
    ignored. I suggest the following filenaming system: \"tphf_n-n-n_xxx.vfb\" where
    \"n-n-n\" (which starts with one \"n\" and adds an \"n\" when a branch splits
    off) is a branching path, and \"xxx\" is a version along the branch.\r\n\r\nSo
    \"tphf_2-4_011\" would mean \"the 11th iteration of subversion 4 of version 2\".
    What you have now would be \"tphf_1_xxx\" where \"xxx\" is your current version
    number; and if somebody decided the change the weight contrast for example he
    would make \"tphf_2_001\"; after that if somebody adds/changes glyphs to that
    it would be called \"tphf_2_002\", but if that person changes the vertical proportions
    for example it would be \"tphf_2-1_001\".\r\n\r\nWe also need a shared text file
    where people clearly explain what they changed/added. Lastly, we would use a Typophile
    thread to show changes and ask for feedback.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 01:23:50'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Why, Hrant, You've been thinking about this! \r\n\r\n1: We can make a list,
    but there will be others coming along as things evolve, and that is as it should.
    We have a promise of cyrillics already.\r\n\r\n2. Where could this place be?"
  created: '2010-02-06 01:35:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, I think you're right about versioning, but it seems to me that the
    best approach would be to make the source a <a href="http://unifiedfontobject.org/">UFO</a>,
    so that individual GLIFs can be independently versioned. UFO is tailor-made for
    this kind of collaborative project.
  created: '2010-02-06 01:37:56'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Oh dear\u2026"
  created: '2010-02-06 01:41:32'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "How about this:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/67076\r\n\r\nI try to help,
    and try not to cause any extra ruffles. But then and again, these things seem
    to pop up like earthworms after rain, so what do I know."
  created: '2010-02-06 01:54:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You've been thinking about this!\r\n\r\nActually I came up with that scheme
    as I was typing my post.\r\nRemember, I'm a computer programmer by training.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    Where could this place be?\r\n\r\nI know there are website that offer free hosting
    of small-scale collaborative projects. There are also websites that act as virtual
    hard-drives* where we could share the username/password.\r\n\r\n* http://www.adrive.com/\r\n\r\nA
    simple but functional scheme would be to make a Gmail account where:\r\n- All
    participants have the password. You would give out the password to anybody who's
    not clearly a poser. You might initiate a vetting procedure (among the existing
    particpants) for new candidates.\r\n- Emails are sent to itself (with \"outbound\"
    CCs as desired).\r\n- Judicious subject fields serve to organize things. To this
    end we would formulate Subject prefixes such as \"[Version Control]\", \"[New
    Branch]\", \"[New Glyph(s)]\", \"[Feedback]\", \"[New Collaborator]\", etc.\r\n\r\nJohn:
    I remember reading about the UFO format back when it\r\ncame out, but I've never
    worked with it. Does it require RoboFab?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 05:36:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Google Wave might be a good collaborative tool once it gets rolling, or now
    if interested parties can secure invitations.
  created: '2010-02-06 05:46:28'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Google Groups & Base Camp are both great for collaborative projects. Even
    Google Wave is sort of OK, though it;s a bit too beta right now.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 05:52:33'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "John-\r\n\r\nSorry about a tart retort. After checking into UFO i'm very
    interested."
  created: '2010-02-07 00:28:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">After checking into UFO i'm very interested\r\n\r\nThat's good, it's your
    only hope. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 17:49:27'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "\"I do not know if this is legally/contractually possible to do\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    there's this great this great little set of online communities that built this
    great little operating system often named after it's kernel: Linux. They seemed
    to do just fine.\r\n\r\nI'd be fine contributing to this if:\r\n1. It's GPL/LGPL/MIT
    licensed (so everyone can use it free of charge).\r\n2. We had an IRC channel
    or wiki to collaborate on (you can get an IRC client for any and every operating
    system known to programmers).\r\n3. We had reliable hosting for it (such as a
    Google Code page or github).\r\n\r\n\r\nThe best part about this, is that if it
    does pick up, we could have a really large set of coherent glyphs."
  created: '2010-02-15 15:34:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">They seemed to do just fine....\r\n\r\n...until they noticed they were not
    wearing any fonts in public.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-15 20:07:05'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: Is there no interest for this?
  created: '2010-02-18 00:36:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm here, and I want it.\r\n\r\nShow of hands?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 19:47:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hand_5194.gif]'
  created: '2010-02-23 16:44:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "\u2E98"
  created: '2010-02-23 23:19:44'
- author:
    name: Creative19
    picture: 119212
  body: I really like the typeface Tom, nice work. If there's a list for people interested
    in getting a copy of it when you're done, please add me to it.
  created: '2010-02-25 04:21:24'
date: '2010-01-23 19:22:27'
node_type: forum
title: Typophile font

---
