---
author:
  name: kentlew
  picture: 110411
body: "Cyrus Highsmith just posted some reflections on what he calls \u201Cglyph space\u201D
  (.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;the Final Frontier \u2014 cue <em>Star Trek</em> theme) over
  on FB\u2019s Type 101 blog the other day.\r\n\r\nhttp://type101.fontbureau.com/archives/645\r\n\r\n(I
  bet this will appeal to Hrant especially.)\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "\"Glyph space\" \u2013 I like it. "
  created: '2010-01-24 16:55:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ironically, I read Cyrus' post on glyph space almost immediately after sending
    a lengthy email to Frank Blokland on the subject of new approaches to spacing.
    While I think Cyrus is right that the attachment of spacing to glyphs was one
    of the characteristic distinctions between typography and writing, I don't think
    there is any reason at all why it needs to remain such. Glyph space was a necessary
    by-product of putting letters on little piece of metal. It seems increasingly
    bizarre to me that digital font spacing still follows a metal type paradigm and,
    hence, a two-stage spacing mechanism (advanced width default spacing followed
    by kerning adjustment).
  created: '2010-01-24 18:50:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I like the term. But I would really like to know about John\u2019s ideas
    for new spacing paradigms!"
  created: '2010-01-24 19:15:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "One way to describe what I'm thinking about would be as a redefinition of
    glyph space. In some respects, one could say that the traditional typographic
    glyph space, whose paradigm is a piece of metal, isn't really glyph space at all,
    because it is independent of and ignorant of the shape of the glyph. It's a rectangle
    that butts up against other rectangles, and that may or may not result in an ideal
    spacing relationship between the glyph shapes that are carried on the rectangles.
    What if, instead of putting glyphs on rectangles, we put them on shapes that reflected
    the glyph shapes in such a way that when those shapes butted up against each other
    they resulted in ideal spacing for those glyphs?\r\n\r\nThis \u2018bubble\u2019
    idea is something that Laurence Penney and I discussed way back in the mists of
    time on the comp.fonts newsgroup (c. 1995). It is also, as I understand it, one
    aspect of the spacing in Tom Milo's Arabic layout model, which really does dispense
    with metal type paradigms. Microsoft's math layout uses a related concept with
    its \u2018cut-in\u2019 kerning, which is necessary because adjacent glyphs in
    math layout may have different scaling and vertical alignment, making traditional
    kerning impossible.\r\n\r\nHaving looked at lots of different spacing models over
    the past fifteen years, this is the one I keep coming back to. The practical difficulty
    in terms of font development is the creation of the bubbles. If done manually,
    this is like a secondary kind of outline editing: you define the visible glyph
    and then the invisible bubble. But it should be automatable, i.e. it should be
    possible, by defining tolerances, to extrapolate the bubble from the glyph shape.
    The tricky aspect is that the bubble outline can't just sit at a fixed distance
    from the glyph outline because, obviously, in the case of a letter like T the
    bubble needs to be further from the vertical stem than it is from the ends of
    the crossbar."
  created: '2010-01-24 21:10:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: To me, the concept of advance width is just archaic. We could change "kerning
    classes" to "spacing shape classes" and tidy up the whole mess.
  created: '2010-01-24 21:21:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The bubble system would certainly make life easier, and even if I had to
    shape the bubbles manually\u2014which I would prefer anyway\u2014it would be better
    than kerning."
  created: '2010-01-24 22:29:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: James, in theory bubble spacing could be implemented in a font design tool
    such as FontLab and then translated to the most efficient combination of sidebearings
    and kerning data during font generation. Ideally, of course, I'd like to see the
    bubble spacing implemented within the font and layout format itself, but such
    a design tool implementation would be a good proof of concept.
  created: '2010-01-24 23:14:19'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I will probably post a new topic when I get around to formulating my thoughts
    on this one of these days, but I think there are a lot of things we can rethink
    about font formats that are relics of pre-digital Latin typography, from the \"glyph\"
    as the most basic unit of design onwards. I don't know how long it will be in
    the future, but I hope the font format that will eventually replace OpenType will
    dispense with these restrictions, including the notion of fixed side-bearings.\r\n\r\nIdeally,
    I would like to see a font format powerful enough to handle something like Tom
    Milo's Arabic layout model internally. We can take a look at the demands of so-called
    complex scripts like Arabic, which are tricky to handle in the current formats
    because we are stuck in the paradigm of pieces of metal, and create the next-generation
    format to handle them in simpler, more logical ways. Working with a generalized
    notion of spacing, perhaps something like the bubble method described by others,
    could be a feature of this dream format."
  created: '2010-01-24 23:25:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: And here I thought that "glyph space" was something that g and q were close
    to each other in (and G and 6 as well).
  created: '2010-01-25 01:25:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Compugraphic had an interesting spacing system that I remember seeing back
    in the mid-eighties on some of their advanced typesetting systems. Instead of
    normal spacing + kerning pairs, they divided the glyph into several zones--upper,
    middle, lower--I don't remember exactly. Each zone was basically like having different
    sidebearings going from top to bottom. So, the A would have a narrow zone at the
    top and a wider one at the bottom. The T would have a wide zone at the top and
    a narrow one at the bottom. Spacing would be determined by matching up the zones
    for adjacent characters. It's not unlike the way they used to cut notches into
    metal and wood type to facilitate tighter spacing for the AT combination, for
    example.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I've played around with this idea and I don't think it
    would be hard to implement."
  created: '2010-01-25 01:50:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Oh so obvious and oh so boring. Didn't any of you ever set metal type?
  created: '2010-01-25 02:05:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: What's obvious and boring?
  created: '2010-01-25 02:26:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mark, the Compugraphic system is what I call unitised banded spacing. It
    was also discussed on the comp.fonts newsgroup when Laurence raised the idea of
    bubble spacing, and I made a test case to demonstrate its limitations. Essentially,
    it involves setting different sidebearings at different heights. Because it is
    unitised, though, it is not flexible enough for ideal spacing. Unitisation is
    another limitation of mechanical systems that need not apply to digital type.
    The MS math cut-in kerning is similar to the banded spacing idea, except the number
    and height of the bands is defined relative to the UPM by the font maker, so it
    is a lot more flexible. But a true bubble model, in which spacing is directly
    related to glyph shape seems to me greatly preferable.\r\n____\r\n\r\nJames, yes
    I have set metal type. There was no kerning, and I wasn't allowed to take a file
    to the precious bits of metal."
  created: '2010-01-25 03:32:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Didn't any of you ever set metal type?\"\r\n\r\nYes, but Toto, we are not
    in Kansas any more."
  created: '2010-01-25 03:33:56'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Some time ago I was thinking that one can use different kind of shapes to
    space things. The sidebearings model in that model is like putting 'rectangles'
    between the 'letters' (in the image below, the left column), and you need to modify
    the with of these rectangles to have an even spacing. But you can also use circles,
    and in that case using the same* circle you automatically get difference between
    spacing (right side of the image below).\r\n\r\n*but you have to find the 'right'
    circle and the 'right' position.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacing_5196.jpg]"
  created: '2010-01-25 08:57:51'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>'[...] after sending a lengthy email to Frank Blokland on the subject
    of new approaches to spacing [...]'</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAnd, of course, John received
    a lengthy e-mail in return, which I partly recycle below. John and I discussed
    different approaches on spacing and he actually questioned mine for Latin script-representations,
    which is based on the systems and models I am developing as part of my attempt
    to come to a <em>Treatise on the Harmonic Systems in the Latin script</em> (PhD
    research at Leiden University with Gerard Unger as promotor). So far, this research
    for instance resulted in some preliminary versions of DTL LetterModeller. See
    also: http://www.typophile.com/node/48736\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe thesis on which my
    research is based, is that one can only judge the different representations of
    characters within scripts on the rules defined by the (historical) bases of these
    representations themselves. A description of the underlying structures is essential
    to describe variants of the specific characteristics of style periods and for
    instance to map what type designers actually add and/or alter to the basic structures
    (idiom). A consequence of this approach is, that a certain script-representation
    related mechanism, like spacing &ndash;which is the subject of this topic&ndash;
    is not by definition automatically applicable to a representation of another script.
    In most cases it won\u2019t, because the underlying structure is incomparable.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    LetterModeller is only focused on Latin and the current version is restricted
    to the <em>Harmonic System</em> which is traditionally named \u2018Roman\u2019
    in the typographic field and \u2018Textletter\u2019 in the calligraphic world.
    The spacing mechanism I am working on is based on what I call the <em>Rhythmic
    System</em>. Basically this places ([variants of] a repetition of) a <em>Harmonic
    System</em> underneath the related characters to come to a spacing based on the
    rhythm within the letters (as for instance shows up in the <em>stem interval</em>).
    Although merely a simplification, one could state that in essence the round parts
    are treated as overshoots of the straights. However, to measure the distance between
    the letters mostly based on the straight strokes is only possible when the proportions
    are \u2018ideal\u2019, i.e., when (the widths of) all characters are based on
    the same underlying <em>Proportional System</em>. As soon as this is not the case,
    i.e., when multiple underlying <em>Proportional Systems</em> are used, the matter
    becomes more complex. This shows up for instance in the spacing of typefaces with
    relatively large deviations in counter sizes, which normally results in a \u2018tight\u2019
    spacing to cover up the rhythmic irregularities (to glue the letters actually).\r\nThe
    <em>Rhythmic System</em> approach as basis for spacing works for \u2018open\u2019
    letters also. In one of the PDF\u2019s which are part of the LeMo download (http://www.fontmaster.nl/english/download.html),
    there are examples which contain an \u2018a\u2019 and an \u2018e\u2019. The idea
    of \u2018open\u2019 letters is in my opinion directly related to typography, i.e.,
    to the side bearings which are the result of transition of a calligraphic system
    into movable type. A calligrapher will write for instance an \u2018a\u2019 or
    an \u2018e\u2019 in the rhythm of the other letters, without bothering where exactly
    the space within the letter stops or starts. To be able to split up the space
    in equal parts, one has to know the latter.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAt the moment I am measuring
    the <em>Proportional Systems</em> of letters from the Renaissance (especially
    Jenson and Griffo) and of later periods, to map the different characteristics
    in proportions in the letters of the different style periods in general and of
    punch cutters specifically. If everything goes well, next month the development
    of the \u2018LetterMeasurer\u2019 application will start. The purpose of this
    app is to map the <em>Proportional Systems</em> automatically of (firstly digitized/auto
    traced) type designs and to generate a database of (style period and punch cutter
    related) values. It is especially interesting to see that Griffo makes the counters
    of the \u2018round\u2019 letters \u2018b\u2019, \u2018d\u2019, \u2018p\u2019 and
    \u2018q\u2019 somewhat smaller than Jenson, which could be interpreted as a starting
    point for the rotating counter axis, as can be found in typefaces from the Baroque
    (Griffo\u2019s model being the most dominant over time). Of course, this affects
    also the \u2018c\u2019, \u2018e\u2019 and \u2018o\u2019.\r\nCondensing the \u2018round\u2019
    letters provides a way to make a typeface more economic. Jan van Krimpen applied
    this idea clearly to Spectrum, which was originally developed as a bible face.
    Transferring this to the current technology, one could imagine that for instance
    adding an alternative (stylistic) set for the \u2018round\u2019 letters to a typeface,
    would give the typographer some more options to control the space. A (more futuristic)
    step further would be the application of a model which could be tailored to a
    typeform on the fly and which the typographer could use to change the parameters
    of certain letters within a typeface. I am not referring to multiple masters here,
    but thinking of a typeface independent mechanism.\r\nAt the moment I am making
    attempts to automatically \u2018tailor\u2019 and \u2018anchor\u2019 the primary
    <em>Harmonic Model</em> in the current version of LeMo to existing regular weights
    of broad nib based typefaces to generate bold and condensed versions from there.
    Perhaps this turns out to be too abstract at the end, but wouldn\u2019t it be
    nice to provide the typographer with the flexibility of the calligrapher?\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    basic principle of an equally devided space between all letters is the result
    of the transition of a from origin calligraphic system to a typographic mechanism.
    Over the last 23 years as a lecturer at the Royal Academy I have been in the position
    to experiment with different approaches in educating rhythm and spacing. One of
    the things I noticed, is that explaining the fact, that the space between the
    letters should be equal to the space within the letters does not help students
    very much when they start writing with a broad nib. One needs to provide a mechanism
    which forces the students in this rhythm, and in case of the \u2018Textletters\u2019
    the rhythm/spacing can be largely controlled by the length of the stroke-endings.
    i.e., feed. This convinced me also of the fact that the length of serifs is not
    an arbitrary thing, but a letter-width related factor (besides being a representation/indicator
    of the contrast, contrast sort and contrast flow). In other words, by defining
    the stem interval within the letters the lengths of the serifs are a natural result
    of this, because the stem interval between the letters is normally supposed to
    be (almost) equal. Short serifs will cover less space and will result in a tighter
    spacing, which is basically an obstruction of the rhythm &ndash;something which
    in my opinion makes for instance sans serifs by definition more irregular.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    spacing of the \u2018diagonal\u2019 letters is another thing. These letters have
    clearly another origin (capitals) than the round letters and are therefore part
    of a different <em>Harmonic Model</em>. We like to see the script-representations
    as consistent things (\u2018construction sorts\u2019 [Noordzij]), but in many
    cases they are not. A calligrapher will tweak and bend these letters to make them
    fit in a \u2018Textletter\u2019 variant such as the Humanistic minuscule. In practice
    the type designer will make the width and weight/contrast/contrast flow characteristics
    of the \u2018diagonal\u2019 letters as equal as possible to the \u2018round\u2019
    letters. The spacing in these cases is normally as tight as possible, even sometimes
    by reducing the length of the serifs. By definition kerning has to be applied
    to makes things as optimal as possible, something calligraphers will do automatically.\r\nThe
    fact that the \u2018diagonal\u2019 letters are relatively poorly represented in
    the current version of LeMo, does not automatically imply that spacing mechanisms
    coming from the dominant (primary) <em>Harmonic Model</em> can not be applied
    on the secondary <em>Harmonic Model</em>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nEven if spacing is script-representation
    specific, then one needs at the end a common way to describe the spacing of different
    script-representations in a font format still, I reckon. The translation of the
    spacing into distances between the optical (center/heart) lines of the letters,
    is at the moment the best method I can think of, if only because it can be used
    to translate the current side bearings system easily (the optical center line
    being the center between the side bearings). The problem of the legacy system
    of \u2018hard\u2019 side bearings is, that optimal spacing has to be accomplished
    by adding exceptions in the form of kerning. The lengthy kerning pairs and subsequent
    technical problems in OpenType fonts are a good example of this limited approach.
    If the user does not use the kerning, for instance because it is turned off by
    default in a word processor, the system does not make sense at all. In short:
    kerning is part of the spacing, not an exception.\r\nIn my research the translation
    of the spacing into distances results in line pieces (the length is identical,
    the angle not) which can be read as a graphical representation of the spacing.
    My theory is, that the more uneven the graph is, the more proportional variants
    the typeface in question contains. It also could be an indication that the spacing
    is awkward, of course, and therefore this has to be checked first against the
    <em>Rhythmic System</em>. One of my ideas behind the graphical representation
    is, that this could turn out to be useful for legibility research.\r\nI don\u2019t
    know if the translation into centerlines will work as a practical solution for
    Latin, let alone for any other script. I can imagine that such an approach leads
    to a sort of \u2018class spacing\u2019. The start point of the space (left side
    bearing) of a character would be half of the distance-line (center to center)
    to itself, I reckon.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIn his lengthy e-mail John stated <em>\u2018[...]
    I do think the notion of rhythm is useful and important, but it neither refers
    to a universal phenomenon -- different writing systems and different styles display
    different kinds of rhythm [...]\u2019</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI would like to add to
    this statement \u2018different kinds of harmony\u2019. For my talk at Leiden University
    in May last year, I invited a Korean musician with a master degree from the Royal
    Conservatory to make a comparison of (the rules for) harmony as we know/use in
    the Western world and the equivalents in traditional Korean music. Basically the
    outcome of her highly interesting presentation (she sung beautifully) was, that
    there is no such thing as \u2018our\u2019 harmony in traditional Korean music.
    I also invited a Korean student of mine to try to compare Latin script-representations
    and Hangul to seek for similarities in harmony.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSo, I would treat
    any script-representation as a result of its own rules and I would encourage a
    subsequent description of the harmonic and related rhythmic dynamics for this.
    Thomas Milo is doing this for Arabic and the different approach in DecoType is
    the result of this thoroughly based insight. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-25 09:52:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "One missing piece of this conversation is that the drawing and vertical alignment
    of letters is not two processes is it?  We chose heights and then use them as
    guides not walls. \r\n\r\nMissing part two is performance. \r\n\r\nAnd missing
    part three is the font in a bubble, (arabic), vs. the font in a bath tub, (latin).
    \r\n\r\nI have not only thought about this, but I've watched certified geniuses
    pour millions into solutions that max out at 90% for simple ! Latin fonts. \r\n\r\nBesides,
    36.5% (arguably) of the type we are reading today is on screens, and the bozos
    in the 'composition department' are not interested in solving the simple problems
    we have today, with the simple solutions we brought yesterday.\r\n\r\n>What's
    obvious and boring?\r\n\r\nDon't ask, he's gone totally troll, IMHO.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-25 15:03:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank: <em>Even if spacing is script-representation specific, then one needs
    at the end a common way to describe the spacing of different script-representations
    in a font format still, I reckon. The translation of the spacing into distances
    between the optical (center/heart) lines of the letters, is at the moment the
    best method I can think of....</em>\r\n\r\nI agree that a common font format description
    of spacing is desirable, but I don't think a distance measure suffices any more
    than flat sidebearings suffice.\r\n\r\nHow is the centre line defined? As an average
    height in a font? Or on a glyph-by-glyph basis? If the former, how do you handle
    punctuation and other glyphs that sit below or above an average centre line?\r\n\r\nHow
    does this spacing model relate to and account for combining diacritical marks,
    which is the problem prompting me to question the OpenType glyph positioning model?
    What's the point of spacing according to centre line distance if the result is
    collision of parts of adjacent typeforms that impair legibility?\r\n\r\n<em>So,
    I would treat any script-representation as a result of its own rules and I would
    encourage a subsequent description of the harmonic and related rhythmic dynamics
    for this. Thomas Milo is doing this for Arabic and the different approach in DecoType
    is the result of this thoroughly based insight.</em>\r\n\r\nThere are strong arguments
    to be made for optimised, writing system specific layout technologies. On the
    other hand, it may be possible to come up with a general description of \u2018adjacency\u2019
    -- bearing in mind that what we generally think of as spacing, i.e. separation,
    is only one kind of adjacency --, and hence a potential foundation for building
    a spacing model that can be easily adapted to various writing systems, i.e. one
    that is capable to taking into account different kinds of adjacency relationships.
    In my e-mail to Frank, I wrote, among other things:\r\n\r\nOne approach to developing
    new techniques is to start with a limited application, solve that, and then extrapolate
    to other applications. But the danger -- almost the certainty -- of such an approach
    is that you will eventually hit an application to which you cannot extrapolate
    the original solution, and you find that the limited scope of the initial application
    resulted in a poor foundation. In some respects, we could say that this is exactly
    the problem with OpenType: it has tried to extrapolate too far the spacing paradigm
    of metal type. My preferred approach is to try to build as big a picture as possible,
    taking into account all the problems that need to be solved, and then determine
    if it is possible to develop a technique that will satisfy. In the case of spacing
    type, I think such a picture needs to include all the world's writing systems
    in all their styles and all the variations of ways that adjacent 'typeforms' relate
    to each other.\r\n\r\nTypeform is a term in use at Reading, and I think it is
    a very useful one. A typeform is the rendered representation of a unit of written
    language; the nature of the unit depends on the writing system and other factors,
    but in the case of the Latin writing system a common typeform might consist of
    a single letter or of a letter plus diacritic mark(s). The nice thing about the
    term typeform, because it refers to the rendered representation, is that it is
    technologically agnostic, in particular it doesn't presume anything about either
    the encoding of the typeform or its glyph composition: the same individual typeform
    may represent one or more characters and be built from one or more glyphs. So,
    for example, this typeform:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amacronacute_5831.gif]\r\n\r\nmight
    represent 1-3 encoded characters rendered with 1-3 glyphs. The same typeform could
    represent different numbers of encoded characters, even in different parts of
    the same document, and different combinations of glyphs depending on the font
    used.\r\n\r\nAs I spoke about during the DTL conference, I consider the interaction
    of spacing adjustments and mark positioning to be the weakest aspect of OpenType.
    And in trying to think through the reasons for this I've come to the conclusion
    that spacing has to take into account typeforms, not glyphs. I don't think you
    can solve the spacing problem at the glyph level, which is why I think something
    like centreline distance is a non-starter. Spacing has to take into account the
    profiles of the whole typeform (leaving aside for now spacing for vertical scripts),
    not just the base letter.\r\n\r\nMany of the world's writing systems employ what
    I call static typeforms with regard to spacing. This is the case with Latin. What
    I mean by this is that once a diacritic mark is applied to a letter in the Latin
    script, it forms a static unit that must be spaced relative to adjacent typeforms
    as a unit, i.e. the mark remains in a fixed relationship to the base letter regardless
    of adjacent shapes. There are other writing systems, of which Arabic is an obvious
    examples, in which typeforms remain dynamic relative to adjacent shapes and their
    spacing, i.e. the marks will move relative to the base letter in order to accommodate
    adjacent shapes. So this difference, too, needs to be taken into account in the
    full picture.\r\n\r\nBecause the formal typographic styles of the Latin writing
    system use mostly disconnected letters, we tend to think about spacing in terms
    of distance or separation. I think this is a poor basis for a full picture, because
    most of the world's writing system admit of connection as well as separation;
    indeed, the Latin writing system itself has some of the most fully articulated
    traditions of connected writing. And in some writing systems, of course, connected
    styles are the norm of virtually all writing; again, Arabic is an obvious example.
    So I would say that both separation and connection need to be taken into account
    in considering the relationships of adjacent typeforms.\r\n\r\nSo far, we have
    two kinds of typeforms:\r\n\r\n    static\r\n    dynamic\r\n\r\nand two kinds
    of adjacency:\r\n\r\n    separation\r\n    connection\r\n    \r\nI doubt this
    constitutes a full picture, but it's a start.\r\n\r\nConnections, of course, may
    be elongated or extended in some circumstances. The elongations of Arabic letters
    are traditionally not directly related to adjacency, i.e. one doesn't normally
    elongate in order to resolve a relationship of adjacent letters and their marks.
    In Devanagari, Bengali or Gurmukhi, though, one may extend the headline connection
    between letters/conjuncts in order to avoid collision of superscript vowel signs
    and other marks.\r\n___\r\n\r\nThis kind of analysis suggests to me a properties-based
    approach to adjacency, whereby one would specify at the glyph level the kind of
    relationship(s) a glyph can have to adjacent glyphs. For some writing systems,
    Unicode attempts this at the character level, which is the basis of e.g. Unicode
    Arabic layout, but as font developers we know that adjacency really needs to be
    resolved at the glyph level, not least because there are styles of lettering that
    contravene character property models, e.g. Arabic styles in which a nominally
    \u2018isolated\u2019 alif may connect, at the top, to a following lam. This is
    connectivity as a typeform adjacency property."
  created: '2010-01-25 17:46:49'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: 'Why not just eliminate the left sidebearing (talking about western systems),
    or better: use a kind of marker on both (or even four) sides that represents a
    balance of mass protruding and inherent. One could then define a space between
    glyphs which would essentially be an optical optimum. Or am I being deranged here?'
  created: '2010-01-25 17:59:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Centerlines only help in symmetrical glyphs, there has to be something that
    accounts for shape and weight--perhaps a grid system of space units based on UPM
    which build the space according to shape?
  created: '2010-01-25 18:10:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bert, can you explain what you mean by \u2018balance of mass protruding and
    inherent\u2019?\r\n\r\nDavid Kindersley's spacing model was based on a notion
    similar to balance of mass, as I understand it. One would locate the vertical
    optical centre of a letter -- which Kindersley tried to automate based on analysis
    of mass and form --, and then make this the mathematical centre for spacing purposes.
    The idea of spacing outwards from an optical centre is an alluring one. My analysis
    says that this system works best for all-caps display settings, though.\r\n\r\nFurther
    to my point above, though, one would need to be able to apply such a method to
    <em>typeforms,</em> not just to glyphs. Otherwise one will run into exactly the
    same spacing and mark interaction problems that we're hitting with OpenType. This
    is why I keep coming back to the bubble model, because in theory glyph order needn't
    be an issue: the bubbles of multiple glyphs forming a single typeform -- e.g.
    a letter plus one or more combining marks -- form a composite bubble that has
    the same spacing behaviour relative to adjacent bubbles as a single glyph bubble
    would."
  created: '2010-01-25 18:34:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>...perhaps a grid system of space units based on UPM which build
    the space according to shape?</em>\r\n\r\nI think this concept of building the
    space according to shape is something worth hanging onto.\r\n\r\nA grid system
    would be similar to the Compugraphic unitised banded spacing. It's certainly possible,
    but why unitise? The UPM represents the glyph shape grid, so why not use the same
    grid for spacing shape, i.e. allow the spacing shape to be as flexible as the
    glyph shape?\r\n\r\n[Some aspects of Microsoft's math layout actually measures
    \u2018ink\u2019 during layout, i.e. records the position of outline edges and
    calculates optimal (or tolerance based variation) of position of other elements
    of layout. Effectively, this is defining bubbles during layout.]"
  created: '2010-01-25 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The UPM represents the glyph shape grid, so why not use the same grid for
    spacing shape,\"\r\n\r\nThat is what I meant, John. Sorry I was unclear."
  created: '2010-01-25 19:15:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "An illustration of the problem of kerning and mark positioning interaction
    might be helpful at this stage. This is a relatively simple example, involving
    a single combining mark.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CambriaKernMark_4867.gif]\r\n\r\nWhat
    happens during glyph substitution is that the regular i glyph is replaced by a
    dotless i when followed by a combining mark above (in this case a combining candrabindu).
    So the character sequence\r\n\r\n0054 0069 0310\r\n\r\nis displayed using the
    glyph sequence\r\n\r\n/T/dotlessi/candrabinducomb/\r\n\r\nThe problem is that
    there is a pair kern between /T/ and /dotlessi/ of -70 units, and this kerning
    will be applied because these two glyphs are next to each other. This causes the
    following combining mark to collide with the crossbar of the T.\r\n\r\nIn a font
    using old-fashioned kern table pair kerning, this is a sh\u0456t-out-of-options
    situation: other than disabling kerning completely there's no way to prevent this
    from happening.\r\n\r\nIn a font using GPOS kerning, one has the option to contextually
    adjust or replace the kerning between the /T/ and /dotlessi/ to account for combining
    marks on the latter. I can speak from experience in saying that this is no fun:
    even if you try to group marks by similar widths, you end up requiring loads of
    separate lookups, one for each width of mark as context.\r\n\r\nWhat's missing
    is a way to define the adjacency relationships of multiple glyphs combined in
    typeforms such as /dotlessi/candrabinducomb/ <em>as units.</em>\r\n\r\nNow, if
    we imagine a bubble around each of the glyphs, defining a minimum distance at
    each point around the outline to which another bubble may intrude, we can see
    how combination of the bubbles of glyphs forming typeforms into a single bubble
    for spacing purposes has the potential to enable correct spacing in all situations.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CambriaBubbles_4331.gif]\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't an easy shift to make in any respect. I've tried making bubble outlines
    manually, and trying to wrap my mind around where the bubble outline should go
    in order to get the desired relationship to a variety of different adjacent glyphs
    does my head in. [The bubbles in the image above are very crude, and designed
    only to demonstrate the potential for solving this particular illustration.] What
    I can imagine from a tool perspective is an interface that allows one to drag
    or cursor glyph outlines into ideal spacing relationships with a variety of other
    glyph outlines and then to automatically calculate bubble shapes based on these
    relationships."
  created: '2010-01-25 21:02:58'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "John, would you kern the bottom of an /A/ under that /T/ further than what
    it looks like your bubble allows?\r\n\r\nDid you think of other alternatives to
    having the bubbles be \"hard\" limits defining a minimum distance? (In a sense
    this is not a different paradigm from metal type bodies, just a version that allows
    for unprecedented amounts of filing down the sorts!) \r\n\r\nAnother option would
    be larger bubbles that define a maximum distance (that is, that would overlap
    and wouldn't allow the gap between the /T/ and /i/ in your example). Or maybe
    the answer lies in in-between-size bubbles that are allowed to overlap and to
    have gaps, and which are positioned so that their total deviation from each other
    along their common height is mathematically minimized. \r\n\r\nI'm just throwing
    ideas out; I haven't thought through the feasibility nor preferability of them..."
  created: '2010-01-25 22:01:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The problem seems to be that kerning is done between glyphs instead of between
    typeforms in the example of the i with a candrabindu. This is an implementation
    flaw in the typesetting system.\r\n\r\nThe original article seems to have been
    intended as a \"think piece\", though. Moveable type is made possible by it being
    possible to assume glyphs have a usual amount of white space around them - white
    space in a nice convenient rectangular shape, at that, so that metal type, without
    kerning, works properly most of the time.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of a claim I
    recently read that the spacing around capital letters has to be designed in favor
    of the more common case of a capital letter preceding the rest of a word in small
    letters - so that text in all capitals does not look quite right, and needs a
    slight amount of letterspacing. This discussion has inspired me to think of a
    very simple solution to that which doesn't even involve kerning.\r\n\r\nA capital
    letter should be surrounded by X space on each side for all-capital use, but only
    by Y space on each side when surrounded by small letters? All right, give it 2X-Y
    space on the left, and Y space on the right, and both cases look just fine. The
    kerning tables can then be reserved for the special cases, without a need to clutter
    them with every combination of two capital letters or a capital letter and a small
    letter."
  created: '2010-01-25 22:27:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Craig, as I wrote, the bubbles in that illustration are crude and only designed
    to make the general point about bubble relationships. I suspect the \u2018correct\u2019
    bubble shape for T would involve diagonals under the crossbar coming in towards
    the baseline. It's because of the difficulty of conceiving of the necessary bubble
    shape that I think a tool that automatically creates bubbles based on designer-defined
    adjacency relationships would be necessary.\r\n\r\nNow, it is certainly possible
    that there might be situations in which the bubble shapes necessary to obtain
    optimal spacing between glyph shapes (a) and (b) prevent optimal spacing between
    shapes (a) and (c). Again, I can't say for sure because I find it to hard to wrap
    my head around the implications of all the different combinations. The bubble
    shapes may be far from intuitive in some cases.\r\n\r\nSince we do have a store
    of well made fonts with good sidebearing settings and kerning, one way to test
    the bubble theory would be to try to convert the spacing and kerning of an existing
    font into bubble spacing."
  created: '2010-01-26 01:07:04'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>How is the centre line defined?</em>\r\n\r\nThe distance line I
    have in mind is connecting the center lines of the characters. These center lines
    mark the center of the 'traditional\u2019 width in between the side bearings,
    which is also the optical center of the character when it is centered in the width.
    The distance line is the \u2018traditional\u2019 space plus the kerning and basically
    it can be applied from any vertical position on the center line, except when there
    are exceptions. The center line is the (range of) point(s) of measurement then
    for all other stuff, such as the stacking of diacritics and subsequent prevention
    of collisions.\r\n\r\nPlease note that I am not using the distance line to come
    to the \u2018basic\u2019 spacing; it initially converts this. In one of the next
    versions of LeMo for the auto-spacing the <em>Rhythmic System</em> (structure)
    will be combined with KernMaster algorithms (area) and the result translated into
    distance lines. \r\n\r\nBy the way, for those who want to export the data LeMo
    generates to FontLab Studio, the Ikarus format will do because the IK glyph database
    will be directly converted by FLS.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 09:40:46'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@quadibloc: ><cite> The kerning tables can then be reserved for the special
    cases, without a need to clutter them with every combination of two capital letters
    or a capital letter and a small letter.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut you will need to clutter
    the kern table with every combination of space and capital letter. And, if one
    cares to accommodate contemporary interCaps usage, every combination of small
    letter and capital letter. And every combination of [opening member of paired
    punctuation] and capital letter. Etcetera."
  created: '2010-01-26 14:08:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank,\r\n\r\nAh, you're talking about a <em>vertical</em> centre line. I
    didn't clue into that before, and thought you were talking about an horizontal
    centre line.\r\n\r\nCan you provide some visuals to help explain the idea? I'm
    especially keen to understand how \u2018the center line is the (range of) point(s)
    of measurement then for all other stuff, such as the stacking of diacritics and
    subsequent prevention of collisions\u2019."
  created: '2010-01-26 18:09:02'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>Can you provide some visuals to help explain the idea?</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    just made a few (somewhat simplyfied) illustrations to explain my ideas:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Centerline_1_4194.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Centerline_2_3510.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Centerline_3_4884.gif]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Centerline_4_5068.gif]\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2010-01-26 20:10:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Jongseong -- <em>Ideally, I would like to see a font format powerful enough
    to handle something like Tom Milo's Arabic layout model internally.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    do not understand the recent desire, emerging here and there, to invent ACE once
    again. Why a font format like ACE? There is ACE. It may or may not need some kind
    of adjustment to deal with non-Arabic scripts,* but it is a toolbox prepared for
    the aspects of layout behavior which I have come across so far.\r\n\r\nterminaldesign
    -- <em>Oh so obvious and oh so boring. Didn't any of you ever set metal type?</em>\r\n\r\nMetal
    type is exactly what contributors to this discussion want to be overcome. Looking
    at metal type is helpful only to see where limitations of current font technology
    have their origin, and then going back pre-metal-type.\r\n\r\nquadibloc -- <em>A
    capital letter should be surrounded by X space on each side for all-capital use,
    but only by Y space on each side when surrounded by small letters? All right,
    give it 2X-Y space on the left, and Y space on the right, and both cases look
    just fine.</em>\r\n\r\nI use such a method since about 2006. It is briefly sketched
    in a PDF which you can download <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/kltf_notes_borders.htm\"
    target=\"_blank\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n* And now I notice a certain irony, given
    the usual notion of non-Latin scripts.\r\n\r\n[I must apologize for copying/pasting
    user names rather than real names.]\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 00:01:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Karsten, I developed my ideas more fully in [[http://typophile.com/node/66628|this
    thread]]. There, you can see my motivation comes from wanting to overcome limitations
    on the design of hangul, the Korean alphabet. ACE by itself is insufficient for
    what I'm thinking of for hangul; I'm using ACE more as an example of what is possible
    by breaking out of the OpenType paradigm.\r\n\r\nI'll try to go back to that thread
    when I have time and explain what is needed for hangul design, because I know
    this topic is unfamiliar to most people here."
  created: '2010-01-27 00:15:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>...breaking out of the OpenType paradigm.</em>\r\n\r\nDynamically
    composeable Hangul is possible within the OpenType glyph processing model, I reckon.
    It's just a bit different from how Hangul is typically handled in OpenType fonts."
  created: '2010-01-27 03:41:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank,\r\n\r\nOkay, so I see how you arrive at the centre line, but I don't
    see the relationship of centre line to distance. Distance seems to be arbitrary
    and not significantly different from a typical sidebearing approach to spacing.
    Your adjustment to clear the mark above the i in the 'collision zone' looks like
    a kern. It seems to me that you still need something like my concept of typeform
    to know that the i plus mark needs to be spaced as a unit and not as individual
    glyphs."
  created: '2010-01-27 03:50:05'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John: <cite>Dynamically composeable Hangul is possible within the OpenType
    glyph processing model, I reckon.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, the composition itself is
    possible, and I've seen some attempts to exploit that possibility, I believe.\r\n\r\nBut
    for even a remotely acceptable text design, the components have to vary in shape,
    size, and position according to context. I'll reuse the image from a [[http://typophile.com/node/56487|previous
    thread]] to illustrate:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gi_4604.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is just showing the possible variations on the initial consonant when the
    vowel is fixed and the final consonant is the only variable.\r\n\r\nIn the current
    model, the best we can do is individually design the 2,350 or so most-used syllables
    for modern Korean, and extract the hundreds to thousands of individual components
    from them to be used for composing less common syllables. But this still isn't
    adequate for all theoretical hangul syllables. What I had in mind is a way of
    generating the appropriately shaped and sized component from the contextual information,
    and I don't see how that is possible within the OpenType paradigm of ready-made
    glyphs."
  created: '2010-01-27 07:41:47'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>[...] I don't see the relationship of centre line to distance.
    Distance seems to be arbitrary [...]</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, there is <strong>nothing</strong>
    arbitrary in the shown model and also there is no kerning, as you implied. I will
    give a summary of the elements involved below. The model makes simply use of the
    traditional \u2018side bearings\u2019 structure and converts this into a more
    flexible and in my opinion as calligrapher, also in a more organic one. The conversion
    of the current system into mine should not be to complex and also it should be
    possible to reverse it. This is important for those who don\u2019t want to change
    their font production workflow &ndash;I am one of them. It is also important that
    existing fonts can be converted to the new system without problems.\r\n\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<strong>center
    line</strong>: The center in between the side bearings; normally (preferably)
    the optical center of the glyph. This is the point of reference for the positioning
    and stacking of glyphs, the <em>distance</em>, and the <em>glyph boundary</em>.\r\n\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<strong>distance</strong>:
    The distance from the <em>center line</em> to the <em>center line</em> including
    the kerning (which, of course can be positive or negative). This value is the
    result of the spacing of characters (which traditionally is translated into side
    bearings plus kerning).\r\n\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<strong>glyph boundary</strong>: Theoretically
    an arbitrary distance measured from the <em>center line</em>, which can be an
    extreme of the glyph on the x-axis or this extreme plus some extra space (to prevent
    collisions) or the \u2018classical\u2019 width (side bearing to side bearing).
    The glyph itself has no width, i.e., this is zero, which makes the stacking of
    glyphs possible. \r\nThe <em>glyph boundary</em> is used to prevent collisions
    of glyph parts. In defined areas (<em>collisions zones</em>) the boundaries are
    compared. A unit of stacked glyphs has multiple boundaries, but always a common
    base: the <em>center line</em>. If one of the boundaries collides with one of
    the boundaries of the previous (stack of) glyph(s), the complete unit, i.e., the
    <em>center line</em> will be shifted. If multiple boundaries collide, the largest
    <em>glyph boundary</em> will be used for calculating shifting.\r\n\r\n&mdash;&nbsp;<strong>collision
    zone</strong>: Area which is scanned for collisions of <em>glyph boundaries</em>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nNicolaus
    Jenson clearly had a more simple solution to prevent collisions with accents;
    actually a constant mark shift to the right did the trick:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_2_5356.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_1_5582.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;"
  created: '2010-01-27 09:21:34'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "<cite> a constant mark shift to the right did the trick </cite>\r\n\r\nand
    what did say a \u2018\u017F\u0169b\u2019 or a \u017F\u0169t look like? :)"
  created: '2010-01-27 09:59:14'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: 'Thanks, Frank, for that explanation. If I understand correctly, this is a
    solution that simplifies stacking of glyphs. I''m confused about one thing though:
    does distance need to be specified between every pair of glyphs?'
  created: '2010-01-27 11:21:26'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[Briefly, since this leads off the track of this discussion:]\r\n\r\njongseong
    -- thank you for the link. Yes, what you say about CJK fonts and OTF sounds right.
    The currently most promising approach for CJK fonts might be Mitsubishi's <a href=\"http://engineering.tufts.edu/GradResearch/documents/GradResearch2006/jakubiak.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">Stylized Stroke Font</a>. Actually I would like to see this
    combined with ACE to provide an even more powerful toolbox. My assumption is that
    even scripts which at first glance are very different still have some things in
    common -- and that in an ideal world, each script would choose the pieces which
    it needs from a layout behavior toolbox that transcends the requirements of any
    individual script."
  created: '2010-01-27 12:31:10'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Brian: <em>[...] this is a solution that simplifies stacking of glyphs [...]\r\n[...]
    does distance need to be specified between every pair of glyphs? [...]</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think of it as one way to circumvent a couple of limitations inherited from movable
    type, such as spacing which is at the moment defined by \u2018rectangle to rectangle\u2019
    still plus corrections (kerning). The <em>distance</em> value is spacing plus
    kerning, so no kerning pairs are needed anymore. The <em>center line</em> approach
    also helps to overcome problems like John sketched above. Surely this system will
    have its own limitations too, but it solves a couple and I reckon that conversion
    from and to the current description should not be too complex.\r\n\r\nThe <em>distance</em>
    has to be indeed specified between every pair of glyphs, but as I mentioned this
    can be calculated from the current (side bearings based) system plus the kerning
    pairs. No additional work has to be done basically, although any other possible
    method to calculate the space/<em>distance</em> and the <em>center line</em> would
    be fine (and interesting) too (see my notes on the <em>Rhythmic System</em>).
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 12:55:28'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I see what you mean. This proposal has the practical advantage that you can
    keep using side bearings and kerning pairs just like now, only they will be used
    to define the centre line and distance values so that any stacking problems are
    solved automatically.\r\n\r\nSo this is a simple solution to a specific problem,
    compared to the other proposals above like using bubbles which are complex ways
    of attacking the more general problem of spacing. It may be possible to synthesize
    several of these ideas, but there is indeed a lot to wrap your head around."
  created: '2010-01-29 00:46:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank, when I wrote that the relationship of centre-line and distance was
    arbitrary, I meant only that it was freely variable, being defined relative to
    some third factor, which you now identify as \u2018glyph boundary\u2019. Hence,
    the distance between the centre line of adjacent letters will vary depending on
    what those glyphs are, and hence is as arbitrary as the shape and width of those
    glyphs.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that what you are describing is something very close
    to what we already have, with the addition of a centre line between the two sidebearings.
    I'm still don't understand what is the purpose of the centre line that distinguishes
    centre line distances and adjustments from sidebearing distances and adjustments.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    glyph boundary is used to prevent collisions of glyph parts. In defined areas
    (collisions zones) the boundaries are compared. A unit of stacked glyphs has multiple
    boundaries, but always a common base: the center line. If one of the boundaries
    collides with one of the boundaries of the previous (stack of) glyph(s), the complete
    unit, i.e., the center line will be shifted. If multiple boundaries collide, the
    largest glyph boundary will be used for calculating shifting.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    is the unit of stacked glyphs -- the typeform -- identified? As I wrote above,
    it seems to me that the model needs some kind of mechanism to identify typeforms.
    [Note that this can't necessarily be done via character-level analysis -- e.g.
    grouping combining mark characters with preceding base characters --, since typeform
    composition may be a glyph-level operation that doesn't directly reflect the underlying
    character string and may involve glyphs that are not categorised as marks.]\r\n\r\nCan
    you clarify this statement: \u2018A unit of stacked glyphs has multiple boundaries,
    but always a common base: the center line.\u2019</em>? Are you implying that the
    centre lines of the different stacked glyphs are aligned, or that a new centre
    line is somehow defined for the whole unit? If the former, note that you cannot
    presume that mark positioning involves aligning centre lines, since there are
    lots of cases, especially when one gets beyond the Latin script, where this is
    not the case, where the correct position of a mark on a given base will be offset
    to the left or right of the centre, sometimes even being placed mostly outside
    the sidebearings of the base glyph (e.g. Hebrew prepositional accent marks)."
  created: '2010-01-30 00:21:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>What I had in mind is a way of generating the appropriately shaped
    and sized component from the contextual information, and I don't see how that
    is possible within the OpenType paradigm of ready-made glyphs.</em>\r\n\r\nOpenType
    doesn't have a paradigm of ready-made glyphs. OpenType has numerous mechanisms
    by which to create typeforms, one of which is ready-made glyphs. As I wrote above,
    I think composeable Hangul is possible within the OpenType model, even though
    it is different from how Hangul is typically handled in that model, i.e. different
    from how Hangul fonts have been made so far. It is these fonts that have a read-made
    glyph paradigm, not OpenType.\r\n\r\nWhat we have in Hangul syllables are arrangements
    of components whose shape and size is determined by their context. So long as
    the context can be defined, the selection of appropriate shapes and sizes is quite
    easy. In most styles of Hangul, it seems to me, the variety of shapes and sizes
    is reasonably limited. You have full size, top-half, bottom-half, bottom-left
    and bottom-right variants to consider, yes? With perhaps some additional refinements
    based on adjacency in the bottom half? Indeed, it seems to me that most of the
    Hangul fonts I have looked at, even though they use read-made, precomposed syllable
    glyphs, do so using modular outlines for these different shapes, sizes and positions.
    So composability is really a question not of designing and putting shapes together,
    but the stage in display where this putting-together takes place: in the design
    of ready-made syllable glyphs in a font, or dynamically during layout.\r\n\r\nA
    Hangul syllable composed of three components, can be composed dynamically from
    a single spacing glyph and two zero-width glyphs treated as if they were \u2018marks\u2019
    for GPOS handling. Note that for something to be handled as a mark in GPOS does
    not require that it represent a mark character: a mark glyph is simply one that
    may be positioned using an anchor attachment. [That said, I do want to see the
    OpenType GDEF categories expanded, because there are instances in which one wants
    to be able to do things to anchor-attached glyphs that <em>do</em> represent mark
    characters independently of other anchor-attached glyphs. The pressing example
    of this is the distinction between dots and vowels in sub-character decomposed
    Arabic.]\r\n\r\nBecause the formation of Hangul syllables is so regular, I'm guessing
    that the anchor attachment positioning data would be pretty easy to implement."
  created: '2010-01-30 01:19:07'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>It seems to me that what you are describing is something very close
    to what we already have, with the addition of a centre line between the two sidebearings</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    <em>center line</em> approach is in my opinion quite different from and more versatile
    than the side bearings based one, as I tried to explain above (but obviously without
    convincing you). The side bearings can be used to calculate the <em>center line</em>,
    <em>distance</em> and the <em>glyph boundary</em>, but I can imagine other ways
    to come to this data also. At least the option to convert the side bearings (and
    kerning) should make the system backwards compatible, which is a requirement for
    possible implementation, I reckon &ndash;especially when one takes the historical
    development of type and typesetting systems into account.\r\n\r\n<em>Are you implying
    that the centre lines of the different stacked glyphs are aligned [...]</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that is actually the basic idea. Any offset of marks in reference to the <em>center
    line</em> should be possible too, of course.\r\n\r\nI have asked the FM programmers
    at URW++ to have a look at the practical side, i.e., the technical (implementation)
    consequences and also the possible limitations of my ideas, to prevent things
    from becoming purely theoretical."
  created: '2010-01-30 13:09:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John, you make designing hangul sound too easy. With 19 consonants (5 of
    them 'double consonants') and 21 vowels each having around 5 variants each, around
    200 or so components would be enough to be composed to give all the required syllables
    for a hangul font.\r\n\r\nSuch an approach is of course possible. Modular design
    goes all the way back to the hangul typewriter faces, and since the 1980s with
    the work of Ahn Sang-soo and others there has been a bit of revival in that style
    of design.\r\n\r\nBut such work results in idiosyncratic display faces with a
    mechanical flavour and is judged utterly unsuitable for text faces. Designing
    hangul text faces is much, much more than designing modules and composing them.\r\n\r\nI've
    heard non-Koreans who have examined hangul say that designing a hangul face seems
    straightforward enough with a modular approach, and I suspect Koreans who have
    not tried type design think the same thing. But once you see what results from
    this approach, it is crystal clear that it simply is not acceptable for a text
    design.\r\n\r\nThere is something I have noticed from time to time in older Korean
    books. When the Korean text calls for a rare syllable (for the transcription of
    foreign names, for example) that is not provided by the typeface, the compositor
    puts together the syllable manually from existing elements of the typeface. And
    the result invariably jumps out as ugly and malformed, not because the compositor
    isn't skilled, but because you can't just use the modules without modification.\r\n\r\nHangul
    has always been written in syllabic blocks, and when writing by hand we automatically
    refine the proportions and harmonize the different elements. And in existing text
    faces, we have become used to seeing each syllable be designed with careful consideration
    for the balance of size, balance of weight, and balance of the white space. So
    when we see a design that uses cut-and-paste modules without modification, resulting
    in unsightly gaps and clashes and uneven density, the disunity jumps out at us.\r\n\r\nA
    modular approach of course is necessary for designing hangul, but it only really
    is the first step. The hard work is modifying the modules for all the different
    syllables. This isn't just about stretching into different sizes. The centre stroke
    of \u314F will vary in height according to the consonant it is next to (quite
    high for \u3142, quite low for \u314E, as these shapes have different centres
    of gravity). The centre stroke of \u315C will be shifted right if there is a \u3134
    below, to distribute space more evenly. For a more subtle example, here is a sample
    image of an intermediate stage in the design of a text face called Cheonggiwa
    (\uCCAD\uAE30\uC640) before and after modifications of the raw composed syllable
    (taken from [[http://yoonfont.co.kr/yoonstory/YoonEssay_view.asp?playIdx=4|here]]):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/021(2)(4)_4682.jpg]\r\n\r\nUnicode
    has code points for 11,172 precomposed syllables of hangul, corresponding to all
    possible combinations of the initial and final consonants and vowels used in modern
    Korean. It is of course too time-consuming to fine-tune every single one of these
    by hand. But once you fine-tune enough syllables, you will have produced many
    repeating elements that could be reused for different syllables. It's just that
    instead of the 200 or so of the naive modular approach, you have thousands of
    them.\r\n\r\nAs an example, I examined Nanum Myeongjo (\uB098\uB214\uBA85\uC870),
    a font that supports all 11,172 possible modern Korean syllables. Of these, the
    2,350 or so most-used characters are designed individually and do not use components.
    The rest are assembled with components. I counted 2,813 of these components.\r\n\r\nSo
    yes, hangul fonts with extensive syllable support use modular outlines. Just too
    many of them for the layout model you are talking about to make economic sense."
  created: '2010-01-30 13:12:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>Just too many of them for the layout model you are talking about
    to make economic sense.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced. It seems to me that if
    the goal were the best possible Korean typography, then such an approach would
    be the <em>most</em> economically efficient if, as you say, it is \u2018too time
    consuming to fine-tune\u2019 all the possible syllable combinations. As you say,
    fine-tuning the most common 2,350 already gives you a huge number of potentially
    modular elements. I'm suggesting a way in which these could be utilised intelligently
    to produce the best results for the remaining syllables, based on contextual rules.\r\n\r\nI'm
    also confused, because earlier in this thread and in the other one you started
    you cited technology like ACE as a possible inspiration for new approaches to
    typography of Hangul and writing systems. But what I described -- contextual use
    of sub-typeform modular components -- is how ACE works. I'm just pointing out
    that the same thing can be achieved in OpenType (there are other aspects of ACE
    layout that cannot be achieved in OpenType)."
  created: '2010-01-31 01:59:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank: <em>The center line approach is in my opinion quite different from
    and more versatile than the side bearings based one, as I tried to explain above
    (but obviously without convincing you)</em>\r\n\r\nIt isn't that you have not
    convinced me, but that I still do not understand the practical difference between
    measurement of distance from a centre line that is derivable from sidebearings
    and a measurement of distance from sidebearings. If the centre line were based
    on a principle of optical weight, as in Kindersley's model, then I would see the
    difference, because the optical centre of a glyph is not necessarily the mathematical
    centre line between sidebearings.\r\n\r\nLet's consider the \u2018Tia\u2019 glyph
    sequence in your illustrations above. You have a centre line on each glyph, and
    a distance between the centre lines: T to i and i to a. Where are those distances
    defined and stored? It seems to me that part of each distance belongs to the left
    glyph and part to the right glyph, and that's why it doesn't seem to me practically
    different from sidebearing spacing."
  created: '2010-01-31 02:06:14'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>[...] If the centre line were based on a principle of optical weight,
    as in Kindersley's model, then I would see the difference [...]</em>\r\n\r\nWhen
    I wrote: <em>[...] The side bearings can be used to calculate the center line,
    distance and the glyph boundary, <strong>but I can imagine other ways to come
    to this data also</strong> [...]</em>, Kindersley\u2019s model is one of the first
    other ways that come into one\u2019s mind, of course. \r\n\r\n<em>Where are those
    distances defined and stored?</em>\r\n\r\nThe \u2018where and how\u2019 storage
    question, the interaction with the current system and the related consequences
    for support by applications are amongst the things I asked the FM programmers
    to have a look at and which I will discuss with them in Hamburg midst of February.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 10:10:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John: <cite>As you say, fine-tuning the most common 2,350 already gives you
    a huge number of potentially modular elements.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, and maybe even
    all the elements needed for the syllables possible with modern Korean jamo (the
    individual consonant and vowel letters).\r\n\r\nBut this model is not extensible
    to additional jamo, such as those used in old Korean, in obsolete transcription
    systems for foreign sounds (such as 1953's Deuronmal Jeokgibeop of the Ministry
    of Culture and Education), in the system for writing Sino-Korean used in the <em>Dongguk
    Jeong-un</em> (1448), and the vowels \u119E and \u11A2 used for writing the modern
    Jeju dialect. These are particularly ill-served by typography, as everyone understandably
    balks at the prospect of having to design thousands of more syllables. Only a
    few hangul fonts support all the 11,172 syllable combinations of modern jamo as
    it is.\r\n\r\nDigital technology and the encoding of hangul jamos separately in
    Unicode was supposed to make supporting these additional jamos easier, but fonts
    have not caught up at all. Even the very few fonts that support old Korean only
    support attested syllables and encode them using the Private User Area. Not surprising
    since, if I'm counting correctly, there are 124 \xD7 94 \xD7 138 = 1,608,528 possible
    syllables that can be encoded by Unicode.\r\n\r\nThe following image was taken
    from [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otfntdev/hangulot/features.aspx|this
    Microsoft typography page]] on developing OpenType fonts for Korean.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/han_ex1c_4787.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    individual jamo elements all exist in modern Korean, but none of the particular
    combinations (initial consonant, vowel, final consonant) is in use in modern Korean.
    For the composition described on the Microsoft page to be correctly implemented
    using the ccmp, ljmo, vjmo, and tjmo OpenType features, each of these combinations
    \u3142\u3145\u314C, \u3157\u3152, and \u3139\u3141\u314E have to be designed for
    their appropriate context. You couldn't use any elements from the 2,350 most common
    syllables or even the 11,172 syllables of modern jamo for this, because these
    are some of the most obscure combinations, not in use in modern Korean. You could
    probably count on one hand the number of fonts in existence that can display this
    syllable. I'm not even sure that New Gulim, the font which I think is used for
    the above illustration, actually supports this syllable; the sample could have
    been put together for illustrative purposes, for all I know.\r\n\r\nIf we had
    parametrizable jamo, then it should be easy to compose the above syllable using
    existing elements for modern jamo. This is not something that can be done with
    the current model.\r\n\r\nI realize that the applications I am talking about are
    very specialized. Maybe extended Korean is the only writing system for which the
    model I am talking about makes sense. But there are many writing systems and styles
    in existence, and there is a chance the model could be beneficial if not necessary
    for some of them as well. It could be just my mathematical background speaking
    in terms of finding a general solution, even if the existing limited solution
    suffices for 99% of our needs."
  created: '2010-01-31 12:11:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>If we had parametrizable jamo...</em>\r\n\r\nI think I know what
    you mean by this. But consider that such parametrisable jamo don't necessarily
    need to exist within the font format itself: they could be a tool for creating
    variant glyphs which could then be applied as modular components."
  created: '2010-01-31 20:50:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I have to admit that I do not know enough about the technical side of things.
    Since I want to be able to generate parametrizable jamo (like specific instances
    of a multiple master font, conceptually), not pick them from a pre-generated collection,
    I thought it would be necessary to build this into the font format. But perhaps
    what makes sense is a supplementary tool that generates the necessary glyphs and
    adds them to a font that already contains the most needed hangul syllables pre-composed.\r\n\r\nRight
    now, designers of hangul fonts do use multiple masters to generate specific jamo
    instances and build the syllables systematically, but once they are done the font
    file just contains the specific glyphs and components so produced, making extension
    very difficult. What I would like to see is a way of preserving the generative
    capacity that is currently confined to the design process so that end users can
    easily call up additional syllables. Ideally, they would be able to do this from
    their word processor without needing any fancy additional software.\r\n\r\nSo
    this may not be a question of font format per se, but maybe something for the
    text engine to handle."
  created: '2010-02-01 09:53:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I do not know enough about the required modifications of components in a
    Korean syllable to comment on the task itself. I would think, though, that normally
    it would be understood that while normal Korean text would be set in a text face,
    if it were desired to include syllables not in normal use, that they would be
    in a \"typewriter\" face would be accepted and understood.\r\n\r\nOf course, that
    too would be within limits: while it would be acceptable in a technical discussion
    of archaic Korean, or when text containing foreign words transcribed in an obsolete
    system is quoted, I don't expect that it would be considered reasonable for everyday
    extensions to the basic syllable repertoire - i.e. transcriptions of foreign names
    by means of the system currently in use.\r\n\r\nIt might be, however, that limiting
    the problem in this way would be sufficient to reduce the number of variants of
    each element for composition to a reasonable number.\r\n\r\nEven for the Latin
    alphabet, fonts allow kerning and ligatures to be specified, and so it should
    be technically possible for there to be several forms of each consonant and vowel
    to deal with changing the stroke width as the size is reduced, changing the centering
    depending on adjacent symbols, and so on.\r\n\r\nThe results would not be as good
    as individually designed syllables, however, so instead of the result being obviously
    due to technical limitations, as a typewriter-like syllable would be, it might
    be just good enough to be mistaken for poor-quality work by hand. Sort of the
    \"uncanny valley\" problem."
  created: '2010-02-01 14:00:51'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John (quadibloc), something like you describe does happen, except it involves
    using fallback fonts that include archaic hangul syllables rather than typewriter-style
    face.\r\n\r\nI listed several uses for which modern Korean syllables would be
    insufficient, but by far the greatest demand is for representing older orthographies
    of Korean. Archaic syllables turn up in Korean texts written from the creation
    of hangul in the 15th century until the early 20th century, and as such are indispensable
    for the standard Korean literature curriculum. So you can find examples in any
    textbook dealing in early Korean literature. (Archaic hangul is not needed for
    everyday use, although once they become widely available in fonts it's probably
    a matter of time before people decide to exploit them to transcribe foreign sounds.)\r\n\r\nI
    think I've only ever seen three typefaces used for representing archaic hangul:
    a serif, a sans serif, and the New Gulim, the rounded sans seen in the sample
    in my earlier post which honestly is as suitable as Comic Sans for academic texts.
    \r\n\r\nSo most often, the same serif typeface that supports archaic hangul is
    used for the entire textbook or at least for the extracts of literature. Sometimes,
    the quoted texts are set in a font that doesn't support archaic hangul, so the
    archaic syllables from one of the fallback fonts are substituted. And I have seen
    examples in older books where archaic syllables were simply written by hand.\r\n\r\nTypewriter
    faces in Korean are built differently from normal text faces, as they break the
    square paradigm, so to speak. You would never mistake one for the other. So archaic
    hangul syllables in typewriter faces will be too different from the surrounding
    text to work. In contrast, the variety in the proportions of different hangul
    serif designs is not that great, so if the main text uses a hangul serif font,
    then really the only thing to worry about in using the fall-back font is matching
    the weight."
  created: '2010-02-01 15:06:15'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Earlier in this thread I mentioned the spacing mechanism I am working on,
    which is based on what I baptized the <em>Rhythmic System</em>. Basically this
    places a repetition of a <em>Harmonic Model</em> underneath the related characters
    to come to a spacing based on the rhythm within the letters. In essence the round
    parts are treated as overshoots of the straights. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe current version
    of LeMo contains the <em>Harmonic System</em>, which forms the basis for the written
    variants of the formal group of \u2018Textletters\u2019, basically from Textura
    to Humanistic Minuscule and subsequently of the typographic variant of the latter,
    which we call \u2018roman\u2019. This <em>Harmonic System</em> comprises two <em>Harmonic
    Models</em>, of which the primary one provides the construction for all letters
    which are not derived from the capitals. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nDuring discussions on LeMo
    some colleagues noted that for instance spacing based on the <em>Rhythmic System</em>
    is restricted as such and can basically only be applied within LeMo. Actually,
    I am strongly convinced that the <em>Rhythmic System</em> was applied by for instance
    Jenson for the spacing of his \u2018archetype\u2019. The following illustrations
    show that the <em>Rhytmic System</em> can easily be applied on Jenson\u2019s type
    and that even the word-spacing follows this structure.\r\nThe model used in these
    illustrations makes use of the parameters of the \u2018Renaissance\u2019 preset
    in LeMo. Please note that the version with the serifs places these a little bit
    too low for Jenson\u2019s type; I will make a fitting preset for Jenson\u2019s
    letters in the next LeMo edition. Also the photographic enlargements are a bit
    crude.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typophile_1_5569.jpg]\r\nIn
    most (all?) books on typography, the transition from Textura to roman type (after
    the invention of movable type was introduced in Italy) is just a matter of taste
    (Textura being considered \u2018Gothic\u2019, i.e., barbarian) and the fact that
    Jenson and co. were confronted with a more complex model to space than the Textura
    one, seems to be simply ignored. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typophile_2_6278.jpg]\r\nSpacing
    a Textura is, because of all the straight parts, relatively easy. When based on
    the <em>Rhytmic System</em> (top row) a standardized system can be made in which
    the \u2018i\u2019 and the \u2018l\u2019 fit into one unit, the majority of letters,
    like \u2018n\u2019, \u2018h\u2019,\u2018u\u2019, \u2018o\u2019,\u2018b\u2019,\u2018d\u2019,\u2018p\u2019,\u2018q\u2019,
    et cetera, on two units and the \u2018m\u2019 on three units. The center row shows
    letters made with LeMo and in the third row the \u2018feet\u2019 of these letters
    were centered and the arches shifted accordingly.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typophile_4_5296.jpg]\r\nActually
    I am quite sure that Jenson used this structure for the spacing of his type too
    and that he treated the curved parts simply as overshoots. In the illustration
    the spacing is again based on \u2018Rhythmic System\u2019 and subsequently results
    in a standardization of widths. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typophile_5_5785.jpg]\r\nIf
    Gutenberg and Jenson really have made use of such a structure, they were applying
    a sort of unit arrangement system roughly half a millennium before the manufactures
    of the hot metal composing machines were doing this. Later this year I will do
    some traveling and measuring to find out if there is proof for this theory in
    casted type.\r\nOne wonders if the developers of the Linotype and Monotype machines
    were aware of widths standardization by their precursors. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nNeedless
    to say that I am focusing on the italics now.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 10:14:57'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "@ Frank Blokland\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, would it be helpful to illustrate
    the <em>rhythmic system</em> of Jenson's types with a photograph from [[http://www.flickr.com/search/?q=jenson&w=43719536@N02|the
    History of the Book (Amsterdam)]]?\r\n\r\nYour present illustrations are clear
    enough; I merely want to indicate a resource and track this thread."
  created: '2010-02-21 17:21:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Frank, your theory is strongest when it applies to what Alistair Johnston
    refers to as the \"prime rib\" characters (in <em>Alphabets to Order</em>), that
    is to say, the very Latin characters that appear in the typical \"Quousque tandem
    abutere...\" specimen text of yore -- without k, v, w, x, y, and z, with their
    awkward diagonals.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how rigorously Jenson et al followed moudular
    spacing.\r\nIn this sample, his \"h\" is wider than \"n\", and he clearly avoids
    \"fence posting\" in the h-i-l sequence.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Philo_3625.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    topic has been discussed occasionally at Typophile; this thread provides links:\r\nhttp://dev.typophile.com/node/33659\r\n\r\nAlso
    <em>Type Spaces</em> by Peter Burnhill adressses the topic."
  created: '2010-02-21 17:58:11'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Christopher: <em>would it be helpful to illustrate the <em>rhythmic system</em>
    of Jenson\u2019s types with a photograph from the History of the Book (Amsterdam)?</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nChristopher,
    thank you for the link. For the illustrations I used a photograph of Jenson\u2019s
    edition of Cicero\u2019s <em>Epistolae ad familiares</em> from 1470. The copy
    is from the collection of Museum Meermanno in The Hague and I ordered this photograph
    more than 20 years ago when I wrote the book for the Dutch television course <em>Kalligraferen</em>.
    I have a small number of other photographs of Jenson\u2019s work and of some publications
    by Aldus Manutius, of which I used a photo for the illustration at the bottom
    of this post. A higher resolution would be nicer for the quality of the illustrations
    though, so I will order new high res ones.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nNick: <em>your theory
    is strongest when it applies to what Alistair Johnston refers to as the \u201Cprime
    rib\u201D characters</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nYes, these are what I call the primary
    <em>Harmonic Models</em> in the <em>Harmonic Systems</em> which we tend to call
    \u2018roman\u2019 and \u2018italic\u2019. The secondary <em>Harmonic Models</em>
    in both systems are derived from the capitals and have a different construction
    and subsequently other harmonic rules and basically are forced in the rhythm of
    the dominant, i.e, primary <em>Harmonic Model</em>. Normally this results in a
    tight setting of the secondary model.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWhen the roman lowercase letters
    of the primary <em>Harmonic Model</em> all fit in one base model (i.e., one <em>Proportional
    System</em>, such as in the \u2018Renaissance\u2019 preset in LeMo) like those
    of Jenson and Griffo, the <em>Rhythmic System</em> is clear and the subsequent
    \u2018fence posting\u2019 not complex. In case more than one <em>Proportional
    System</em> can be applied, as can be seen in for instance French Renaissance
    \u2018display\u2019 typefaces (like Hendrik van den Keere\u2019s <em>Canon Romain</em>),
    the <em>Rhythmic System</em> becomes a more complex thing and seems to be dominated
    by the most condensed <em>Proportional System</em>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nNick: <em>I'm
    not sure how rigorously Jenson et al followed moudular spacing [...] [...] Type
    Spaces by Peter Burnhill adressses the topic.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI am not sure
    either when it comes to a standardized system for character widths, but most tests
    I did so far convince me of he fact that the <em>Rhythmic System</em> was used
    by Jenson. I admit that placing the system on your example (from which book?)
    is a bit trickier. Although the wider \u2018h\u2019 does seem to obstruct the
    \u2018fence posting\u2019, the larger counter results in a smaller distance between
    the \u2018h\u2019 and the \u2018i\u2019 and the total distance from the left stem
    of the \u2018h\u2019 to the \u2018i\u2019 seems to fit the <em>Rhythmic System</em>.
    In the second half of the word, the rhythm is clearly more obstructed and I have
    to do a lot of comparison to find out if this sort of deviations are common or
    the result of for instance some relatively poor casting.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Philoxene_2_3581.jpg]\r\nPeter
    Burnhill\u2019s book is focused on the Aldine Press and I do not recall him writing
    on standardized character widths. I will read my copy again, though.\r\nInterestingly
    it is also no problem to put the the primary <em>Harmonic Model</em> with the
    \u2018Renaissance\u2019 preset on the letters of Griffo used in the <em>Hypnerotomachia
    Poliphili</em> (see below) to proof the <em>Rhythmic System</em> (although Griffo
    seems to condens the \u2018o\u2019 somewhat more than Jenson).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hypnorotomachia_4880.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-22 13:22:28'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_2_1_5990.jpg]\r\nThe
    widths of many letters by Jenson and Griffo seem to fit into the <em>Rhythmic
    System</em>, but some like the \u2018a\u2019 and the \u2018e\u2019 seem to cause
    a shift. This can for instance be seen in the \u2018Philomene\u2019 example from
    Nick. These letters take obviously more space than the \u2018i\u2019 and the \u2018l\u2019,
    but less than the \u2018n\u2019. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_2_2_5407.jpg]\r\nIf
    the grid based on the <em>Rhythmic System</em> is refined by doubling the units,
    the \u2018a\u2019 and the \u2018e\u2019 seem to fit in the system. The \u2018i\u2019
    and \u2018l\u2019 fit on 2 units then, the \u2018a\u2019 and the \u2018e\u2019
    (and \u2018c\u2019) on 3 units, the \u2018b,d,h,n,o,p,q,u\u2019 range on 4 units,
    and the \u2018m\u2019 on 6 units.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jenson_2_3_4007.jpg]\r\nI
    mentioned Monotype before, and it is interesting to see that for instance Jan
    van Krimpen followed a unit arrangement which comes pretty close to the ratio
    2 : 3 : 4 : 6 in his drawings for the roman of Haarlemmer. The 'i and \u2018l\u2019
    were drawn on 6 units, the \u2018e\u2019 (and \u2018c\u2019) on 8 units (the \u2018a\u2019
    deviates somewhat more with 9 units), the \u2018b,d,h,n,o,p,q,u\u2019 range on
    10 units, and the \u2018m\u2019 on 15 units. So the ratio for the Haarlemmer widths
    for the letters in question is 2.4 : 3.2 : 4 : 6.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Haarlemmer_1_4086.jpg]\r\nWith
    adapted parameters in LeMo (Pen width = 10.5, Pen thickness = 1.0, X-height =
    50 and Ascenders and Descenders = 30, Stretch factor = 0.92) one can reproduce
    the <em>Rhythmic System</em> for the drawing of Haarlemmer roman):\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Haarlemmer_2_6179.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Haarlemmer_3_3747.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-23 13:02:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Never underestimate the power of the human eye to determine what is best for
    the human eye.
  created: '2010-02-23 16:22:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I haven't had time to follow this interesting thread, but I would like to
    register my skepticism that Jenson's spacing is the best model to follow. \r\n\r\nHaving
    the inter-letter spacing and counter width the same in the lower case, following
    Jenson, is also something that Frutiger insisted on, contrary to his teachers,
    as he has reported. Walter Tracy, in \"Letters of Credit,\" holds that instead
    the space between two n's should be less than the counter width.\r\n\r\nTracy's
    view, which reflects Linotype's practice, and I believe the practice of most other
    houses in hot metal days, I think is the better one. The perfect regularity to
    me does cause a \"picket fence\" effect that dazzles only slightly, but enough
    to detract from readability. \r\n\r\nIt is notable that none of Frutiger's seriffed
    faces have been as popular as his great sans faces, Univers, Frutiger, and Avenir.
    And the sans have lesser space between letters than within counters. \r\n\r\nI
    haven't studied this, or even the photocopies above, but did Griffo and Aldus
    improve on Jenson's spacing, by tightening up letter spacing a bit?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    there is no doubt that letters which make readable words are *approximately* rhythmic.
    But the slight deviation from perfect regularity may be as important as the approximate
    regularity.      "
  created: '2010-02-23 16:55:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The relative spacing of i and l, in a serif type, is interesting. I almost
    never assign these the same advance width, because the presence of the upper serif
    at the x-height optically closes the space between the i and a preceding letter
    in a way that does not happen with the l. One can see this quite clearly in the
    Aldine \u2018nobilissimo\u2019 image, above. I almost always end up putting less
    distance on the left side of the l than on the i, and still less on the left side
    of the b because of the absence of a foot serif and, in many styles, an under-turn."
  created: '2010-02-23 17:41:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '@John Hudson: Indeed. I always assumed this was standard practice.'
  created: '2010-02-23 18:30:27'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "William: <em>I haven't had time to follow this interesting thread, but I
    would like to register my skepticism that Jenson's spacing is the best model to
    follow.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThis thread is on <em>glyph space</em> and above I show
    spacing based on what I call the <em>Rhythmic System</em>, which will be built-in
    in LeMo, and I try to explain how for instance Jenson, Griffo and Van Krimpen
    all seem to make use of such a system. So far I did not make any quality statement
    nor any advocating of \u2018Jenson\u2019s spacing\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nChris: <em>Never
    underestimate the power of the human eye to determine what is best for the human
    eye.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWhat you and I see is mostly the result of conditioning
    based on conventions which are preserved by conditioning.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJohn: <em>I
    almost never assign these the same advance width, because the presence of the
    upper serif [...]</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI would not be surprised if Jenson or Griffo
    were aware of this fact, but that for instance the material and the restricted
    use on small point sizes made it practically impossible but also unnecessary to
    apply such details. On the other hand, there is also a good design reason for
    not making the spacing of the \u2018i\u2019 and \u2018l\u2019 identical and that
    is that making the spacing between the letters even, will give a slight disruption
    of \u2018stem interval\u2019. So, the rhythm of the stems versus the rhythm of
    the (amount) of space.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-23 18:56:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What you and I see is mostly the result of conditioning based on conventions
    which are preserved by conditioning.\"\r\n\r\nFrank,\r\nWhat I am referring to
    is one of your samples posted above, where the \"a\" does not quite fit the grid.
    Clearly there was an optical adjustment needed to bring it into visual balance.
    I think something primal and primitive to the earliest humans surviving their
    surroundings is operating here. Humans (and surely other animals) can spot minute
    things differing from the perceived norm and used that skill to know prey from
    predator.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-23 19:38:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This is an interesting question, but it should be possible to settle it fairly
    quickly from observation. One can compare the widths of iiiiii and nnn and mm
    in various common unit systems to see if the \"fence-post\" values are the current
    ideal.\r\n\r\nThus, if we go to the absolute minimum, and ask what widths were
    given to letters on an IBM Executive typewriter, we find i=2 units, n=3 units,
    m=5 units. So we have 12, 9, and 10 units for the three cases, which differ -
    but not in a uniform way.\r\n\r\nOn an IBM Selectric Composer, which used a finer
    unit system, one that closely resembled the appearance of real type, we find i=3
    units, n=6 units, m=9 units. Here, we have 18, 18, and 18 units. So this is completely
    consistent with fenceposting. (The internal spacing of strokes within the n and
    m, of course, could still be such as to avoid that.)\r\n\r\nWith Monotype Times
    Roman, we have i=5 units, n=10 units, and m=15 units. Again, consistent with fenceposting.
    But c, e, and z are 8 units, a, g, v, x, and y are 9 units - instead of all being
    10 units, as would be required to maintain the rythym for all the letters."
  created: '2010-02-23 20:10:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'quadribloc, the issue is not just advance widths, but also width of counters.
    Currently, in the Times New Roman on my Mac, the sidebearings of the n is 315
    units, and the breadth of the counter in the n is 379 units. The sidebearings
    are less than the counter, as Tracy recommends. Also the i is in fact more than
    half the width of the n. '
  created: '2010-02-23 20:54:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: What about the distance from stem to sidebearing to accommodate the serfs,
    Bill? You have to visually allow for what the serifs do for your equation. With
    a sans, it is easier to do the math.
  created: '2010-02-23 21:20:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, the measurements I gave were from the stem to the sidebearing. Sorry
    I didn''t make that clear. '
  created: '2010-02-23 21:58:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{To Read}'
  created: '2012-02-11 06:12:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "{To Read}\r\n\r\nYes indeed! I missed this too when it happened.\r\n\r\nDid
    the discussion go on elsewhere? Did Frank complete his work on this?\r\n\r\nA
    theoretical basis for Frank's approach might be the spatial frequency tuning of
    perception in reading. It seems to me that the rhythmic system problem can be
    addressed with fourier transforms. These show narrow phase alignment in the stems.
    To keep a spacing system from implementing perfect regularity (the origin of the
    \u2018picket fence\u2019 effect = absolute phase alignment) there would need to
    be a modulatory system based on establishing the rhythmic system in the whites,
    or so it seems to me. I's possible that the other parts of the fourier transforms
    than the part that shows the phase alignment of the stems could provide a handle
    for that. However, building fourier transforms math into typsetting systems is
    probably impractical.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson's bubbles concept might be linkable to
    Denis Pelli's work on isolation fields, a concept which arises from work on crowding
    or lateral interference.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-11 13:44:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "As long as we're reviving the thread...\r\nIs that Harlemmer image introducing
    an orange into the apple discussion? As I read it, that gridded drawing seems
    to represent (for the most part) widths from edge to edge of the glyph--i.e. ignoring
    sidebearings. What then is the relevance of overlaying the running arches over
    it?"
  created: '2012-02-11 15:38:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[Hrant, since you''re digging up interesting old threads: I thought you''d
    be all over <a href="http://typophile.com/node/55783">this one</a>. My last post
    there opens the door to a discussion I''ve been meaning to have with you for a
    while now.]'
  created: '2012-02-11 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm on it. Like a freezer making ice-cubes.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-11 18:41:57'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: .
  created: '2012-04-17 17:29:58'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: .
  created: '2012-04-18 00:52:55'
date: '2010-01-24 14:11:27'
node_type: forum
title: Highsmith on Glyph Space

---
