---
author:
  name: joeclark
  picture: 110605
body: "Typophile is a discussion forum, but you\u2019d never know it from the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/\"
  title=\"Typophile.com\">homepage</a>, a baffling and angering display of Flashturbation
  from a junior Web designer with a point to make that even he can\u2019t articulate
  properly.\r\n\r\nSeriously: Safari 4 takes 28 seconds to load <em>just the Flash
  component</em> of the homepage. (I paused my stopwatch when the animated logotype,
  another useless and unwanted fillip, stopped moving.) You are then presented with
  an interface, using custom scrollbars and jammed into a little rectangle, to what
  appears to be the actual purpose of the site \u2013 discussion. Select an item and
  whaddya know \u2013 you\u2019re sent away to the actual forum, built mostly around
  HTML. (Actually, it should be entirely HTML, CSS, and JavaScript; there is no cause
  for Flash, save perhaps for sIFR.)\r\n\r\nWhat should the new homepage look like?
  It should look like the homepage of a site whose owners aren\u2019t trying to show
  off and who actually want visitors to understand and use the site. The homepage
  should <em>be</em> <a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/\" title=\"/forum/\">the
  Forums page</a>. Hire somebody like Jason Santa Maria or Zeldman or Andy Clarke
  or Simplebits to work on it. But nearly anything would be better than the Flash
  monstrosity we\u2019re stuck with now."
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I've never understood why so much of the site relies on Flash. I never go
    to the home page, so that's not an issue for me, but, for example, the links along
    the top and the search box are simply gone if I view the site on my iPhone. Using
    Flash for such basic site elements seems pointless.\r\n\r\nThe funny thing is
    that apparently I never, or rarely ever, use those parts of the site. I actually
    had to look at the site on my iPhone to see if they were there or not.\r\n\r\nI
    think it's also interesting (and perhaps telling) that the ads on the right side,
    which is usually where you see Flash used on other sites, rely on Javascript instead.
    So, I do get to see those on my iPhone (not that I'm complaining about that)."
  created: '2010-01-24 16:15:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: I got used to bypassing the Home page a long time ago, when I was limited
    to dial-up here in my rural location (still don't have access to broadband).
  created: '2010-01-24 16:55:51'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "What Kent said. \r\n(My favourites links and buttons go straight to this
    general discussions forum, and I know to change the \u201C/4\u201D to \u201C/5\u201D
    in the address bar if I want to go to the Design forum. Going anywhere else is
    about 5% of my time on Typophile...)"
  created: '2010-01-24 17:23:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes I don't use the homepage at all.
  created: '2010-01-24 17:37:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: My entry point is always http://typophile.com/tracker
  created: '2010-01-24 18:26:35'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I use http://typophile.com/forum I never view the homepage either (unless
    I accidentally click on \"Home\" up in the breadcrumbs instead of what I wanted
    to click on.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2010-01-24 18:38:21'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: What the previous commenters have said. I avoid the homepage.
  created: '2010-01-24 19:31:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Joe, have you *ever* had anything nice to say about this place? I log in
    tonight to see 30 new threads consisting of Joe bitching about this place, which
    we can add to the 300 others from you the past decade or so.\r\n\r\n\"The homepage
    should be the Forums page\"\r\n\r\nUse your damn bookmarks or browser auto-complete.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-25 02:13:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Darrel (aluminium): Your attitude is the exact reason why we have people
    bitching. When the majority of users use the backdoor, something is clearly wrong
    with the front door.'
  created: '2010-01-25 08:53:42'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Wether Flash or not:\r\nI definitely like the whole style and functionality
    of typophile site.\r\n\r\nFor me it\u2019s thumbs up!\r\n\r\nStefan\r\nkeep on
    going"
  created: '2010-01-25 10:50:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@frode we don't have people bitching. Joe is bitching.\r\n\r\nYes, sure,
    it'd be nice if the hard working people that build, run, host, and maintain this
    free site did all the little things we request, but I'm not going to start a SPAM
    campaign to bring the site down because I can't figure out how bookmarks in my
    browser work. \r\n\r\nBUT...since you brought up the door analogy...that's how
    houses work. The front door looks all nice and pretty but everyone used the back
    door as it's simply more practical and closer to the kitchen where all the action
    is. "
  created: '2010-01-25 14:20:06'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@darrel\r\n\r\nWell, I am bitching. That might be how houses work, but clearly
    not how a website should work."
  created: '2010-01-25 14:27:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I agree with Frode. A homepage should easily fire people through to the bits
    they want to see. If nobody is using it, maybe that's a sign to take Joe's criticism
    constructively. It's not good design to make people bookmark pages.
  created: '2010-01-25 14:40:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Given the amount of people coming out of the woodwork to join Joe's bitch-fest,
    I guess I'll have to let it be.\r\n\r\nJoe, as usual, is technically correct.
    Joe, as usual, doesn't seem to have much interest in having civil discussions
    on Typophile, though, and instead prefers to use passive aggressive quoting and
    demand that it's his way or no way.\r\n\r\nWhich, to me, in my humble little opinion,
    seems stupid. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-25 15:18:29'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: I would much appreciate Joe compiling all his suggestions into ONE post, rather
    than thirty.
  created: '2010-01-25 15:19:16'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: "I can see why they use flash, because it was the only way to use other fonts.
    Although web fonts support in browsers is starting to take off now.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing that really bugs me about it is the nav being in flash rather than
    just image links, I miss being able to middle click."
  created: '2010-01-25 16:54:46'
- author:
    name: francis bold
    picture: 114825
  body: Rich flash content is with out a doubt pleasing to the eye, but of course
    to appreciate it one must have a good broadband connection. A simply solution
    may be to do a HTML equivalent but give the end user the option to enter either
    flash or html at the home-page startup.
  created: '2010-01-25 19:47:27'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "We understand and agree with the majority of theses concerns around the Flash
    content and have been working towards a solution we hope to implement in the near
    future. \r\n\r\nThanks for your patience."
  created: '2010-01-25 20:01:25'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Well, Zara, do you understand and agree with the numerous personal attacks
    in this thread and others? You\u2019re just going to let those sit there, aren\u2019t
    you? Because you indeed <em>understand and agree with them</em>.\r\n\r\nIn any
    competently run online forum, such comments would be deleted. Now\u2019s your
    big chance."
  created: '2010-01-25 21:24:39'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Safari shouldn't take 28 seconds to load Typophile's home page. That seems
    rather odd.\r\n\r\nBut in terms of the \"less is more\" school of thought, I have
    to agree, the less Flash the better. "
  created: '2010-01-25 21:31:40'
- author:
    name: lapiak
    picture: 111789
  body: Flash is quickly becoming an annoyance especially with how we have powerful
    html5, css3, and Javascript functionality these days. The home page has been one
    of my gripes for a while, and it would be sooo much nicer if it was laid out in
    html. I'll be another guy happy to see Flash go from this site.
  created: '2010-01-25 22:05:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Joe, you're as big a purveyor of personal attacks as anyone on Typophile,
    including in the very message where you bemoan not being protected from same.
  created: '2010-01-26 09:55:33'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I've gotten used to most of the web allowing ctrl-clicking to open links
    in a new tab. It's frustrating  to be prevented from doing so here so I've mainly
    switched the RSS & Google Reader. Every time I visit, the front page, I forget
    and I try to ctrl click a post heading. If I want to open a new instance of Typophile,
    I can't ctrl click the logo or anything at the top. I actually have to start a
    new tab, find my shortcut and open a new instance.\r\n\r\nI don't use the forums
    page because it's not very useful either. I think the average out-of-the-box web
    forum, while perhaps not as pretty as Typophile would serve visitors better.\r\n\r\nUsually
    I use RSS and Google Reader because it's easier and faster."
  created: '2010-01-26 11:32:07'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "What my previous speaker said.\r\nThe fact that one can\u2019t CTRL-click
    neither the several topics nor the logo/links at the top is annoying indeed.\r\n\r\nPlus,
    from time to time, after a long time of loading, the front page appears in the
    *featured-face-view*, i.e. I have to click the upward-pointing arrow at the bottom
    to view the topics.\r\n\r\nI tried to use the forum page as a starting point but
    I missed the clarity of the front page.\r\n\r\nAn alternative, similar structured
    front page without flash would be a huge improvement."
  created: '2010-01-26 14:56:45'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "\r\nIt is hard to separate the substance of Joe's posts from the rather mean-spirited
    way in which they're crafted. Often, one wishes Joe would just go away.\r\n\r\nWith
    respect to the home page, I may be in the minority, but overall I like it. Believe
    it or not, I always go there first, to see what's newest, and what's hottest.
    Also, I like the way it looks. I am neither baffled nor angered by it.\r\n\r\nI
    do agree with Joerg though- a similarly structured front page, implemented with
    more friendly technologies, would almost certainly be an improvement. "
  created: '2010-01-26 17:44:56'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: I don't really mind Joe's posts. In fact it's given me several things to think
    about for the web sites I plan to build in the future. It's like extreme user-centric
    design of a website and it all makes sense. His tone may come off a little blunt
    or rude, but I can see what he is saying. Him and the meta-filter dude should
    write a book about building web sites for users in mind. I've never used meta-filter,
    but from what he is saying, it seems they are really open about what they do.
  created: '2010-01-26 20:15:42'
- author:
    name: scottsullivan
    picture: 115949
  body: I'm okay with the front page.. and I support junior web designers with points
    to make.
  created: '2010-01-27 14:34:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"In fact it's given me several things to think about for the web sites I
    plan to build in the future.\"\r\n\r\nJoe Clark, as a usability/accessibility/web
    standards pundit and evangelist, is definitely someone to listen too. \r\n\r\nIt's
    sad his valid points are wrapped up in such a offensive and egotistical personality.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 15:17:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The warped attitude probably comes from the fact\r\nthat he doesn't grasp
    the purpose of Typophile; or\r\nhe does grasp it, but is too obsessed with his
    own\r\nagenda to care.\r\n\r\nAnd paradoxically that's the fatal flaw of Joe's\r\n\"usability\"
    stance; ignoring the <em>context</em> makes\r\nsomething not at all usable in
    the end. I will add\r\nthat this paradox is typical of Western thinking,\r\nwhere
    pedantic formalism is allowed to itself\r\nbecome the -pointless- objective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 18:48:27'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Pointless pedantic formalism is typically Western? That's quite a bold statement.
    I know of non-Western cultures where that is much more the case.
  created: '2010-01-28 07:52:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course, there is no pure West or East.\r\nI do find it to be a useful
    generalization however.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:23:44'
- author:
    name: d_gogarty
  body: "My new favourite word; Flashturbation. Well said Joe Clark :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:28:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">pedantic formalism is typically Western?\r\n\r\nActually, the opposite is
    the case. One of the key advances of Western civilization was Socrates' idea that
    critical discussion can move us closer to the truth. \r\n\r\nPedantry happens
    when fresh insights ossify into rigid classifications. While this happens in every
    tradition, only the West has had the critical tradition to continually revitalize
    its thinking by breaking out of old categories. The critical tradition has helped
    to generate the outstanding dynamism and creativity of Western thought and civilization
    since the renaissance\u2014when the critical tradition was revived.  "
  created: '2010-01-28 16:22:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em><strong>only the West</strong> has had the critical tradition to continually
    revitalize its thinking by breaking out of old categories</em>\r\n\r\n?!"
  created: '2010-01-28 16:40:52'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>?!</cite>\r\n\r\nMore than that, I would say: \"?!?!?!\""
  created: '2010-01-28 18:03:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, it's true. Other traditions have criticism and change, but not a critical
    tradition. The critical tradition--Popper ascribes its invention to the pre-Socratics--welcomes
    conflicting views of the world, and tries to sort out what best, and welcomes
    new views. That positive attitude to disagreement and debate is special and precious.
    \r\n\r\nOnly in the West. That's what gave it its edge, including science. Now
    the critical tradition is around the world, but still not as ingrained in other
    cultures. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 19:05:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">That positive attitude to disagreement and debate is special and precious.
    \r\n\r\nThe non-Western tradition of nondual thinking, nonattachment to dogma,
    accepting interpersonal diversity, maintaining harmony and experiencing one's
    experience of the world without judgment is equally precious. It's important not
    to get too attached to what we think. The difficult thing is knowing when to follow
    which path, I'd say."
  created: '2010-01-28 19:20:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nonattachment to dogma, accepting interpersonal diversity, maintaining harmony
    and experiencing one's experience of the world without judgment is equally precious.\r\n\r\nThat's
    not true. Non-western traditions are more consistently dogmatic. \r\n\r\nChina
    censors the internet not because of Marx, but because of Chinese tradition, which
    sees disagreement and argument as disturbing harmony. We value open discussion
    and argument, and so invented web forums like this one. The leaders in China want
    to shut it down because they don't believe in the value of critical discussion.
    \r\n\r\nIn that respect Western tradition is better. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 19:27:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sounds like you have fixed ideas about this ;)\r\n\r\nIt's dangerous ethnocentrism
    to say one culture is better than another.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, I was thinking
    more of what the Buddhists tell us, emphasising peace and harmony. Chinese politics
    misinterprets this by trying to maintain peace by force, much like Western 'peacekeepers'
    in certain non-Western countries."
  created: '2010-01-28 19:35:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, as usual you believe the most convenient thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 19:41:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, that's crap. On the contrary, I believe something that I have studied
    for long, and which is not convenient at all, but an unpopular truth. \r\n\r\nNobody
    here will agree with me--except those who actually know Confucian tradition--not
    because they have a deep knowledge of Confucian tradition, but because they hold
    to the fashionable and in my view shallow denigration of Western tradition. \r\n
    \r\nI think Western tradition is better in some ways, and worse in others than
    Confucian tradition.\r\n\r\nBut if I have a different opinion it's because I'm
    dogmatic and rigid, right? It couldn't possibly be because I know what I'm talking
    about, right?\r\n\r\n>It's dangerous ethnocentrism to say one culture is better
    than another.\r\n\r\nWell, you were willing to say that East and West are equally
    valuable--even though they contradict each other at points--and different eastern
    traditions conflict with one another also. I don't think that can fly. It sounds
    good, but closes the door to really learning the strengths and weaknesses of different
    traditions.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't think it's ethnocentricism. The critical tradition
    can look at multiple traditions and critically compare them--as well as being
    self critical. That's its power, which the others don't have.  \r\n\r\nBuddhism
    has a lot of personal tolerance in it. But it never had a social or political
    doctrine, as far as I know. In China traditional social and political doctrine
    is Confucian, and Confucianism, while deeply humane, is equally deeply authoritarian.
    The censoring of the internet is Confucian to the core. \r\n\r\nBy the way, is
    the censoring of the internet equally as good as not censoring it, Ben?\r\n\r\nOr
    are you willing to be \"ethnocentric\" on that one?"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:18:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW: The Internet is strongly Western, on more than one level.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:22:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The Internet is strongly Western, on more than one level.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    Love the internet. \r\n\r\nSooner or later, China will see the light and Westernize
    on this. In other words, they will see that their traditions are hampering them,
    and Western openness is better for their people and their society. \r\n\r\nWe
    got the idea of the meritocracy from China, they can get the open society from
    us. \r\n\r\nBut that's the critical tradition talking.  "
  created: '2010-01-28 20:36:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Absolutely. Love the internet.\r\n\r\nThis is the problem.\r\nYou must
    love what's yours less than what's not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:38:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You must love what's yours less than what's not.\r\n\r\nSo I should love
    my neighbor's wife more than my own?\r\n\r\nThat's a philosophy that will get
    you into a lot of trouble. Just ask John Edwards :)  "
  created: '2010-01-28 20:45:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not Western enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:53:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Back on track for a sec...\r\n\r\nI like the homepage! \r\n\r\nEspecially
    the effect of the receding posts. Very temporal. I like the three columns of what's
    happen'. But I'm not too keen on the flash thing in the top left corner. It's
    action is too distracting - but I do like the idea of showing different T. That
    reminds, I should do one.\r\n\r\nIt takes my 'puter about 1 (or less) second to
    load the front page. I'm on a Windows platform using the latest Firefox browser.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBack
    onto the Metaphysical(?)...\r\n\r\nTo me the West - and in particular the USA
    - set the example of being an Individual. With Individual rights and freedoms
    for all to pursue equally. I don't know where in the discussion that belongs,
    but it is by far the most crucial property. To encourage the pursuit of an Idea
    to the fullest - defines Democracy itself. Anything short of that seems to me
    to limit what it is to be human.\r\n\r\nSeems almost pathetic the amount of intellectual
    property that has been ripped off by the East. Defining not only their lack of
    respect but underscores how wanting their societies truly are. \r\n\r\nI believe
    the internet - in it's current state - to be part of those crucial Individual
    freedoms. Although it didn't quite start out that way.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-01-28 20:54:05'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think peace-through-force is absurd in China and all failed states where
    armies point guns at the people to stay in power. Internet censoring is a form
    of this, a restriction on people's freedom and I don't like it. What I'd like
    to say is that censoring the internet is one malconceived policy of the Chinese
    government, without making any wider judgment about Chinese tradition or culture.\r\n\r\n>you
    were willing to say that East and West are equally valuable--even though they
    contradict each other at points\r\n\r\nOf course, that's equality and diversity.
    Having spent a good many years in Asia (not China), I can see good and bad things
    about both East and West, and in my experience neither comes out on top. In fact
    there are things about which I hold contradictory opinions, yet Western rationalism
    disallows that. True or false, right or wrong, good or bad. In my experience,
    Eastern philosophy does a better job of being non-dogmatic than Western philosophy,
    which I've also studied for many years. Sometimes that's a useful thing, sometimes
    it isn't."
  created: '2010-01-28 20:55:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Democracy sucks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:11:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "So does Confucianism.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:16:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, this is all the official party line junk we've been hearing for
    a\r\ncentury. It's not working any more, which we are finally seeing in the open.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:20:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ben, is there even a concept of \"tolerance\" of those with conflicting views
    in the East? I mean not just personal tolerance--which Buddhism has--but with
    groups and political ideas. \r\n\r\nIn Confucian tradition, so far as I've experienced
    it, there is one right way, and if you're not with it, shut up. \r\n\r\nIn the
    West, you can have contradictory opinions, but they can't all be right, if you
    follow logic. That discomfort with contradictions is a spur to trying to figure
    where you are right and wrong. Otherwise, it seems to me you license complacency
    and stagnation. \r\n\r\nPeace through force is the traditional way in China. The
    supreme value is harmony, and to get that you suppress opposition. You don't want
    to connect it to Chinese tradition. Ok what's it connected to? Why don't they
    have it in those Eastern countries more affected by the West?\r\n\r\nI think history
    shows that traditions are tremendously powerful. If not the traditional idea that
    harmony is paramount and all conflict bad, what is responsible for censorship
    in China? After all, in many ways their government has been one of the most successful
    in the world. It's not like they are otherwise stupid or unsophisticated--quite
    the contrary. \r\n\r\n5star, I agree with you about individual freedom being precious,
    and that being distinctively Western. However, I think that current Western individualism,
    especially in the US, is excessive. The sense of social responsibility has declined
    in my life time, and I think that's a very bad thing. \r\n\r\nWhen I was in China,
    some things I really loved as far better than what we have in the US. One was
    the quality of deep friendship, which was really striking. Another is the courtesy
    and affability of interaction. That is such a welcome relief compared to the rudeness
    of so many Americans. "
  created: '2010-01-28 21:26:01'
- author:
    name: opwann
  body: "I'm not one to complain much (I've been to Africa and been around people
    who should complain, but who don't).\r\n\r\nBut the Typophile homepage is terrible.
    It should be redesigned and absolve itself of all things Flash - using @font-face
    or Cufon where necessary.\r\n\r\nI could do it in less than 48 if you wish.\r\n\r\nvisit
    my portfolio for more info: owenperry.ca\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:34:35'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I can't speak for Confucianism.\r\n\r\nCertain schools of Theravada Buddhism
    across much of Southeast Asia accept different ideologies, and even welcome discourse
    with other ideologies, knowing its teachings are not 'truth', since what we think
    is only what we think. And you're right because people do criticise it for not
    being moralistic enough. But at least in my view it is not concerned so much with
    political ideas, arguments and the right/wrong dichotomy, as it's more a mental
    science showing us how we can get on with our lives and interact positively and
    peacefully with others whatever their beliefs.\r\n\r\n>You don't want to connect
    it to Chinese tradition. Ok what's it connected to?\r\nIt's certainly connected,
    but I don't want to judge a whole tradition I don't understand."
  created: '2010-01-28 21:43:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ben, I agree with you that we can learn a lot from the psychological insights
    of Buddhism\u2014I certainly have. Also I think they are stronger on compassion
    than Judaism and Christianity, even though both of those have compassion as a
    prime value. \r\n\r\nHowever, Buddhism has had some key weaknesses, both of which
    relate to passivity. The goal of avoiding suffering brings you away from the world,
    as a monk on a mountain top, whereas the commitments of Judaism and Christianity
    to pursuit of justice, to family and work, are more engaged with life. Also Buddhism
    never had the tradition of the Prophets, of social change and increasing social
    justice. Even though Christianity lived for very long with Feudalism, eventually
    the prophetic imperative re-asserted itself in the renaissance and the age of
    reason, and we are much the better for it. \r\n\r\nThe social weakness of Buddhism
    and its lack of impact on social tolerance is seen in the civil war in Sri Lanka.
    The British had favored the Tamil minority, I believe, during their rule. In reaction,
    the Buddhist majority after independence imposed a Sinhala only rule--only the
    language of the Buddhist majority would be permitted. This act of intolerance--the
    Tamil minority was 30%--was followed by other anti-Tamil actions, which eventually
    led to the horrible civil war. I don't want to defend the actions of the Tamil
    Tigers, who I believe invented suicide bombing. But the behavior of the Buddhists--also
    Theravada--do nothing to say that Buddhists are more tolerant of minorities than
    we are in the West. \r\n\r\nOf course, in the West, even the ideas of tolerance
    developed in Holland and England and eventually America did not stop a lot of
    horrible treatment of minorities, but still it was created a persistent voice
    for tolerance, which over time has often succeeded. \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2010-01-29 00:56:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "my goodness.  who knew the homepage\r\nwas a hotbed for philosophical debate?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 09:10:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">The goal of avoiding suffering\r\n\r\nThat has not been my experience of
    Buddhism. What I've learnt is that suffering is an integral part of reality, and
    accepting it means we are less conflicted with ourselves and therefore better
    able to shine. Certainly non-attachment is helpful in getting a clear, positive
    mind. But that's not the same as avoidance. One can even directly confront a political
    idea without being attached to one's own fixed view.\r\n\r\n>Buddhism has had
    some key weaknesses, both of which relate to passivity\r\n\r\nThis sounds quite
    general. Different Buddhists interpret the teachings differently. The three jewels
    of the Buddhism I know are the Buddha, his teachings and the community. That last
    one to me means the people around us are an important part of engaging in life.
    If there's any weakness in Buddhism, it's the freedom to believe only what's true
    in one's own experience. That is also its great strength.\r\n\r\nI'd also like
    to point out that there are ways to engage with life other than 'pursuit of justice,
    [and commitments] to family and work'. Are animals less engaged with life? They're
    certainly less engaged in our ideas about life, but why should our ideas apply
    to them?\r\n\r\nI'm not trying to say any philosophy, religion or system of government
    is perfect: in fact I started by saying that all ways have good and bad aspects,
    and I said what I liked about Eastern tradition. All those factors have flipsides,
    as you have pointed out. Things can go wrong, equally in the East and the West."
  created: '2010-01-29 10:09:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Things can go wrong, ...\r\n\r\nI was just entranced by the history of one
    Mongol Khan who converted to Buddhism, though not completely as evidenced by the
    account of his funeral which included human sacrifice. So, I am wondering as Bendy
    fails to suggest, if Buddhism is like all the others, just a word for another
    problem with the 'home page'?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-29 13:11:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ben, what book on Buddhism would you recommend that gives the different views?\r\n\r\nMy
    impression of the passivity of Buddhism come from [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Noble_Truths|the
    four noble truths]] that are at the foundation of Buddhism, which I understand
    as roughly: 1. Life is suffering. 2. Suffering is caused by attachment. 3. Cease
    attachment and cease suffering. 4. The way to cease attachment is to follow the
    eightfold path. The goal seems to be to avoid suffering, which is a different
    priority than \"Love your neighbor as yourself.\" and \"Justice, justice shall
    you pursue.\" \r\n\r\nI do agree with you that \"things go wrong.\" I find that
    what a person makes of his religion is in the end more important than the theology
    or metaphysics in it. And you can have a Buddhist and Christian who resemble one
    another more in their attitudes than they do many of their coreligionists. For
    all I know Joe Clark is a devoted Buddhist :) \r\n\r\nStill, the ethical priorities
    and content are of the different traditions are different, and I'm interested
    in the truth. That's why I focus on differences and try to sort out what's right.
    I don't think they are all the same, and I want to know their strengths and weaknesses.
    \r\n\r\nWhat I find irritating is the reflex, and to me shallow, statement \"East
    is better,\" which set me off here. Your views are obviously well informed by
    familiarity, and you have a nuanced view of what is strong and weak. Thanks for
    your insights about relying only on your own experience. That's the kind of thoughtful
    assessment that I like, not the reflex lack of appreciation for one's own traditions,
    and fashionable lauding of what is exotic to you as automatically \"deep.\""
  created: '2010-01-29 14:16:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I hope it didn't come across as 'East is better' \u2014 I think my approach
    is to synthesise what works for me from both angles.\r\n\r\n>I find that what
    a person makes of his religion is in the end more important than the theology
    or metaphysics in it.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. Glad we have the same view here :)\r\n\r\nAs
    for books on Buddhism, I'm afraid my conception has been informed by experience
    not by reading words. There's a large gap between the two, which is why I tend
    to have a healthy disregard to anyone waving books around and saying they're Truth.
    I have lived as a Buddhist at times in my life, listened to monks and read books,
    but to be honest, the books I've read have been anecdotal and confusing. Thai
    monk Buddhadasa had some very interesting (unconventional) interpretations which
    you might be lucky enough to come across, if you're interested.\r\n\r\n>1. Life
    is suffering. 2. Suffering is caused by attachment. 3. Cease attachment and cease
    suffering. 4. The way to cease attachment is to follow the eightfold path. The
    goal seems to be to avoid suffering,\r\n\r\nWell, it depends which way you look
    at it, and there are many ways to word it. Here's my take. Number 1 means that
    some kind of imperfection permeates our whole existence and experience of reality.
    It's the same for everyone, and animals included. We can't avoid that suffering.
    We get hungry, cold, sick, old, bored, uncomfortable, change happens... Number
    2 says that we add a whole new dimension to our suffering (which the animals don't)
    by adding an ego into the equation. Suddenly 'imperfect reality' becomes 'this
    is bad and it's happening to me'. When we start judging and wanting and not wanting,
    we set ourselves against the way things just are. The last two two clear up the
    mess that ego brought. \r\n\r\nWhen investigated thoroughly, Buddhism is surprisingly
    non-exotic, simply seeking to explain the way the real world is and how we experience
    it. (And I know this might be a non-standard way of interpreting it, but again
    it works for me and other Buddhists.)\r\n\r\nInteresting how this thread has developed.
    Thank you too. Now I wonder where Joe's got to.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 14:46:30'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If you want to read books about spiritual philosophies don't read the \"scriptures\",
    read the artists. So for Zen Buddhism I would suggest Li Po, Wang Wei, or Tu Fu
    if you like longer poetry. These are also Chinese poets. Li Po was a notorious
    drinker and is probably the most \"out there\". Wang Wei was the gentlest, and
    Tu Fu was the middle of the road sober poet.\r\n\r\nIf you prefer shorter poetry
    begin with Basho and the haikuists of Japan.\r\n\r\nIf possible get poetry that
    is translated by Lucien Stryk.\r\n\r\nAll my understanding of spiritual matters
    comes from art. Sufi music, Zen poetry, Mass in Bb Minor, St Marks Cathedral,
    throat singing from Tuva, shakuhachi, etc\u2026\r\n\r\nIt makes more sense to
    me than the direct writings.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-29 22:32:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Wow. Flash > Socrates > ethnocentrism > Confucianism > Buddhism. \r\n\r\nWin."
  created: '2010-01-30 06:37:25'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "We need a moderator to get this back on topic.\r\n\r\nIn art the East builds
    on tradition. In the West we reinvent.\r\nIn art, I prefer the Eastern approach,
    I am from California, where the sun sets in the West.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-30 07:03:29'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i am from california, where the sun sets in santa monica bay.\r\n\r\nexcept
    when it sets in the santa monica mountains...\r\n\r\nfurther north, of course,
    it sets in the pacific ocean.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 13:56:00'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "A typical aspect of Western civilisation is the disability of ceasing to
    think comparative and hierarchical. Other cultures are either seen as (morally)
    \u201Csuperior\u201D (see Rousseau, or more updated, Cameron\u2019s \u201CAvatar\u201D)
    or \u201Cinferior\u201D. Democracy and capitalism are seen as the Holy Grail for
    mankind as a whole.\r\n\r\nIn our na\xEFvet\xE9, we tend to believe that OUR political
    system is the closest to creation\u2019s crowning glory. We can\u2019t even imagine
    what a mammoth like China would turn into if it allowed e.g. boundless freedom
    of speech.\r\n\r\nSocial systems are too complex for a cock comparison contest.
    Instead of learning from the terrible consequences of proselytisation e.g. in
    Africa, we still try to force our ideals on other civilisations. When the whole
    experiment fails, we can still steal away.\r\n\r\nThe drive of interference is
    a great tool for self-improvement within a society, i.e. when used in one\u2019s
    own hood. It easily turns into a curse when exploited for a bossy missionary zeal.\r\n\r\nWhat
    brings us back to the guy who brought this up and his not unreasonable objections,
    brought forward in a rather bossy and clumsy manner."
  created: '2010-02-03 10:20:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well said, and astutely concluded.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 16:28:57'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: So yeah, ctrl click would be nice.
  created: '2010-02-08 06:59:40'
date: '2010-01-24 14:59:59'
node_type: forum
title: 'MetaPhile: The homepage is a disgrace and Flash has got to go'

---
