---
author:
  name: Zara Evens
  picture: 110565
body: "In an attempt to clean up General Discussions, a new forum has been created
  so the community can post bugs, feature requests or make complaints. Congratulations,
  Joe - you got your wish.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/forum/1343\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Thank you very, very much! Does he have to wear the hat?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-25 22:17:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Thanks for the organizational help, but isn't it in a rather non-obvious spot?
    The SIG forums get very little traffic as it is. This ought to have a link from
    every page at the bottom, like the "feedback" link does now.
  created: '2010-01-25 23:51:44'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: You are right, Jason. This is intended to be temporary until we decide on
    a more suitable location.
  created: '2010-01-26 00:14:02'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I am at present wearing not a hat but a toque, but not the tall Dr. Seuss
    kind you foreigners might envision.\r\n\r\nI marked the appropriate bug with tag
    bug:resolved and a corresponding comment. You need these in any bug-tracking system.\r\n\r\nSo
    thanks. Oh, and I undid the vandalism of a \u201Cmoderator,\u201D quite possibly
    Zara, in another thread. Passive-aggressive isn\u2019t better than  aggressive,
    kids.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 05:32:25'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "joe said:\r\n>   Passive-aggressive isn\u2019t better than aggressive, kids.\r\n\r\nsure
    it is.  infinitely better.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 09:03:09'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Oh, and I undid the vandalism of a \u201Cmoderator,\u201D quite possibly
    Zara, in another thread. Passive-aggressive isn\u2019t better than aggressive,
    kids.</cite>\r\n\r\nI have no idea what you are referring to, Joe, honestly. I
    have not \"vandalized\" your threads, though I did take the time to remove the
    inappropriate \"f***\" and \"f***tard\" tags from the ones you created.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-26 18:35:59'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Well, Zara, and I see your own software censors you, somebody rewrote the
    heading of one of my postings. I am pleased to accept it wasn\u2019t you. Now,
    who was it? Diamond Joe Pemberton?\r\n\r\nYou named this Corner after him, right?\r\n\r\nI
    agree to use the term \u201C<a href=\"http://arnoldzwicky.wordpress.com/2010/01/24/one-more-tard/\"
    title=\"Cf. Arnold Zwicky\u2019s examination of the term\">f&#117;&#99;&#107;tard</a>\u201D
    only as a last resort from now on. I expect a gold star on my report card for
    that one."
  created: '2010-01-26 20:07:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "@joeclark\r\n\r\nHow is it that you don't know who works at Punchcut, the
    owners/operators of Typophile? I find it ridiculous that you are constantly bitching
    about the people who share their darn website with you. \r\n\r\nIt's like going
    into someone's house and whining when their nephew comes over and tells you that
    you shouldn't use his uncle's favorite sweater for a dish towel.\r\n\r\nTasteless
    and uncouth."
  created: '2010-01-26 23:51:21'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Wow, two days and Joe's corner has <strong>22</strong> topics created by joeclark,
    2 created by bert_vanderveen, and 1 by paul d hunt! It really is Joe's Corner!
  created: '2010-01-27 00:26:50'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: 'Joe''s Corner: The MetaPile.'
  created: '2010-01-27 01:26:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>It's like going into someone's house and whining when their nephew comes
    over and tells you that you shouldn't use his uncle's favorite sweater for a dish
    towel.</em>\r\n\r\nI can't believe more people object to the manner of Joe's comments.\r\nI
    may very well agree with <em>some</em> of his ideas for improvement, but his manner
    I find utterly repugnant."
  created: '2010-01-27 10:00:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I can't believe more people <em>don't</em>\u2026\r\nI should proof read."
  created: '2010-01-27 14:20:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I do, and have. For years now. But I\u2019ve found that it does little good
    to try to berate or shun him. He\u2019s not going to change and doesn\u2019t seem
    to be going away. \r\n\r\nI feel the best strategy at this point is to try to
    engage the ideas and move the conversation away from being about Joe. \r\n\r\nThose
    statements that I find idiotic, I try to ignore."
  created: '2010-01-27 17:36:56'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "joeclark deserves to be supervised / moderated - as one would do with any
    uncivil impetuous child. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 18:58:10'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "joe ain't gonna let you change his tone.\r\n\r\nwhy should he?\r\n\r\nit's
    far better to interact with his ideas.\r\n\r\nif you speak civilly to him,\r\nhe'll
    speak civilly in return.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 07:48:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if you speak civilly to him,\r\n> he'll speak civilly in return.\r\n\r\nNot
    always; or rather, not nearly often enough.\r\n\r\nExample: He asks for a copy
    of a booklet. At your time/expense you copy it and send it. When you hear nothing
    back, you ask if he got it. Nothing. Ask again in public. He bites your hand.\r\n\r\nWhether
    individually I can handle this or not is not the issue. The issue is: is it good
    for society? In this particular case: is it good for Typophile? I think David
    might be right: he's secretly wishing to be kicked out. But then: do you humor
    him or not?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:52:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I handle Joe Clark this way:\r\n\r\n1) First, I tell him to f-ck off, basically.\r\n2)
    Then, I write a favorable review of something he's done. (With good reason.)\r\n\r\nThe
    son-of-a-gun has talent and for <strong>that</strong> I'll put up with damned
    near anything.\r\n\r\nJoe is civilly uncivil. Howzat?\r\n\r\nrich "
  created: '2010-01-29 00:27:30'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Hrant, that isn\u2019t what happened. You threatened to accuse me of stealing
    a single GIF of a type specimen, which, incidentally, I didn\u2019t do and is
    impossible anyway. So I used Typo-L to do what dozens and dozens of us have wanted
    to do over the years, and still do want to do: Tell you to f&#117;&#99;&#107;
    off. You\u2019ve been barely tolerated for more than a decade.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    know what Fink\u2019s problem is."
  created: '2010-01-29 01:32:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That was actually another incident, where you were taking credit for my effort.
    Of course your version of the story will surely be as warped as your behavior.\r\n\r\n>
    You\u2019ve been barely tolerated for more than a decade.\r\n\r\nAt least I try
    to be tolerated, for example by helping people with designing type. In contrast
    you try to be not tolerated, so you can accuse people of intolerance.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t know what Fink\u2019s problem is.\r\n\r\nYou. Get it through your
    head already.\r\nYou sound like Inspector Clouseau when Dreyfus is trying to fire
    him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 01:49:35'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "well, if you are not civil when you talk _about_ him,\r\nyou surely cannot
    expect joe to be civil talking to you.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 09:07:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Hrant has been very polite of late and not nearly as scary as he used to
    be, maybe he's mellowing with age.\r\n\r\nThat's a compliment amongst this slanging
    match."
  created: '2010-01-29 12:47:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> surely cannot expect joe to be civil talking to you.\r\n\r\nTen years of
    experience with him -not just dealing with me but\r\nothers- indicates that it
    doesn't matter much how you talk to him.\r\nAs I said, even if you do him spontaneous
    favors he is still quite\r\nlikely to bite you. This does not mean however that
    we shouldn't do\r\nhim any favors; that would be a poor reflection on us. Our
    greatest\r\ngift can be patience combined with candor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 14:53:43'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: 'I enjoy reading his blog. '
  created: '2010-01-29 15:44:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Monologuing is easy - it involves no real compromise.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 15:54:50'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: Have a link to the blog?
  created: '2010-01-29 17:30:42'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "http://blog.fawny.org/\r\n\r\nAt least, I *think* it's his blog. Joe Clark,
    Toronto, typography . . . gotta be the one. "
  created: '2010-01-29 18:27:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[beaten to the punch]'
  created: '2010-01-29 18:35:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: Dadgummit, that is an ugly site. I only mention it given that most of the
    current controversy is over website design and implementation.
  created: '2010-01-29 19:53:00'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Hear, hear.
  created: '2010-01-29 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "seconded, Dan, & thirded. \r\n\r\nFor some reason seeing the blog and site
    kinda makes me feel sad about the whole situation. I wish Joe the best as he continues
    to grow."
  created: '2010-01-30 02:04:46'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Are you kidding me? http://joeclark.org/ Seriously? That - from the guy who
    parades himself around here?\r\n\r\nWow, truly sad.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 03:12:52'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "This getting childish.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 03:36:41'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   Hrant has been very polite of late\r\n\r\ni noticed that, yes i did,
    i sure did!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  and i bet if joe and hrant are\r\nnice
    to each other for 10 years, to\r\noffset their 10 years of fighting,\r\nthen we
    will all get a new pony...\r\n(offer not valid where prohibited by law.)\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 13:38:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW, I really don't feel any different.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 15:29:53'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The moment there is a brawl in my regular place (coffee, newspapers, beer)
    I get outa there.\r\nTypophile is becoming a less appealing place nowadays.\r\nPleas
    be civil. If you have a problem with certain members of this community, evade
    them. One always has a choice: hit he keys, or go to another thread."
  created: '2010-01-31 16:03:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Bert, I'd think that \xABbeing civil\xBB and avoiding conflict at all costs
    are two separate things; you cannot expect everybody to deal with conflicts in
    the same way you do. In my world, some fights are simply worth being fought (this
    one not so much though)."
  created: '2010-01-31 16:13:12'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   FWIW, I really don't feel any different.\r\n\r\nso much
    the better...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 08:52:27'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "Sure, life is short and most \"battles\" not worth the time they steal...but
    some fights are definitely worth the cracked ribs and split knuckles; I agree
    with Altaria \u2014this one, not so much. And I perhaps shouldn't have commented
    earlier.\r\n\r\nBut I do feel folks like Joe, for those hardy enough to get past
    the good ol' piss-n-vinegar disposition, have sharp, occasionally invaluable,
    insights to offer..."
  created: '2010-02-04 04:13:57'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i read the rules for interacting online a long time ago,\r\nand haven't forgotten
    them since (although i _have_\r\nforgotten who wrote them, so tell me if you know)...\r\n\r\n1.
    \ don't offend.\r\n\r\n2.  don't be offended.\r\n\r\n3.  the second rule is more
    important than the first.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 20:16:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@bowerbird the ethicist:\r\n\r\nHow about getting defensive? I do that one
    a lot.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-07 21:44:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   How about getting defensive? I do that one a lot.\r\n\r\nah,
    wordplay!  excellent!        :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 20:18:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i don't think this thread should fall off of the front page.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-12 09:11:13'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "It's never my intention to denigrate any person, just the lack of professionalism
    (as I see it) whether it's in designing or selling type, or in website redesign.
    I've often incurred the wrath of some posters, who essentially say, in defense
    of professionals' unprofessional conduct, \"Hey, sh*t happens, give 'em a break.\"\r\n\r\nOr
    like this snotty rebuke from someone who has more to say about other's posts that
    he has to say for himself:\r\n\"I think Renaissance Man has just inched ahead
    of Uli and Joe to win \"Typophile's most grumpy\"\r\n\r\nMy apologies for any
    \"grumpiness.\"\r\n\r\nI've always been afraid of an unkind response from hrant,
    but that has <em>never</em> happened. That probably says more about my fears than
    about hrant.\r\n\r\nI'm not afraid of Joe, because I don't care what he thinks.
    I think he has some good points, but his onslaught of postings was way over the
    top.\r\n\r\nI'm all for civility and comity here as anywhere else, especially
    in Congress, where te word \"comity\" hasn't been applicable for decades."
  created: '2010-02-12 16:32:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It's funny, I was always expecting Hrant to be ferocious too, but that has
    never been the case in my experience either!
  created: '2010-02-12 19:28:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "let's not let this fall off the front page!       ;+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 09:38:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Or like this snotty rebuke\"\r\n\r\nYep, you're still grumpy. \r\n\r\n\"I'm
    all for civility\"\r\n\r\nThen don't complain about bugs on a free web site. Maybe
    offer suggestions or polite requests instead. \r\n\r\nOr, be like Joe. But don't
    get upset when you're called grumpy, then. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 15:50:19'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Thanks for proving my point that you spend more of of your time criticizing
    other's posts than you do in making any real contribution.\r\n\r\nIf the price
    I have to pay to offer constructive criticism that doesn't meet your standard
    of not \"complaining about bugs on a free web site\" is your snotty rebuke, then
    so be it.\r\n\r\nNot \"complaining about bugs on a free web site\" is a dumb as
    not not \"complaining about bugs in freeware.\" Just because something it free
    doesn't mean it can't be critiqued, whether it's a font, a browser, or a website.\r\n\r\nAnd
    who appointed to to the Typophile police force?"
  created: '2010-02-21 20:39:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Just because something it free doesn't mean it can't be critiqued\r\n\r\nVery
    true.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 20:45:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"If the price I have to pay to offer constructive criticism\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for constructive criticism when given in a civil manner.\r\n\r\nComplaining
    about a laundry list of bugs in a free service isn't really the same as constructive
    criticism. \r\n\r\n\"And who appointed to to the Typophile police force?\"\r\n\r\nDude...I
    just called you 'grumpy'.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, you've implied that I'm snotty, have
    more to say about other's posts that he has to say for himself, and my web site
    isn't \"worth a damn\".\r\n\r\nSo much for you being all for civility. \r\n\r\nI'll
    get off your lawn now. "
  created: '2010-02-21 21:21:32'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "i like joe.  i like hrant too.  _and_ richard fink.\r\n\r\nand i like this
    thread to stay on the front page.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 09:02:44'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "in honor of my one-year anniversary here at typophile\r\n(as of tomorrow),
    i'll bump this topic back to the top...\r\n\r\ntime flies when you're having fun!
    \       :+)\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-04 17:57:56'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "back to the front page!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 06:39:29'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Bump. \r\n\r\nJust posted this in Joe's Corner - http://typophile.com/node/68440\r\n\r\nLet's
    see how many people agree.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 23:57:38'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "we wouldn't want joe's complaints to be forgotten...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-25 23:33:52'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "let's give joe a round of applause...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 08:32:51'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "Is there a way to \"unfollow\" a thread?\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-10 03:10:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "where have you gone, joe dimaggio?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-06 10:06:57'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: bb, this obsession of yours is beginning to look unhealthy. i think it may
    be time for an intervention and getting some professional help for you.
  created: '2010-05-06 13:16:35'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "\u201Cthat\u2019s a good thing,\u201D the assistant\r\ntold me.  \u201Cwhen
    you\u2019re screwing up and\r\nnobody says anything to you anymore,\r\nthat means
    they\u2019ve given up on you.\u201D\r\n\r\nthat lesson has stuck with me my whole
    life.\r\n\r\n--randy pausch, \"the last lecture\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-25 08:52:34'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "BlueStreak, STFU.\r\n\r\nYou people are so ignorant of programming and development
    practices that you misconstrue quantity of entries for something else. Every bug
    gets its own thread; every thread has as many comments as it needs. More is not
    worse, nor is it a sign of anything other than a system you don\u2019t understand
    working as intended."
  created: '2010-05-27 21:29:52'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Joe, did you know there are three "u"s in STFU?
  created: '2010-05-28 13:40:36'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "ok, well, yes, shut the fuck up, but\r\ngo ahead and continue the thread.\r\n\r\nright?
    \ right.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 09:21:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, it's worse to be ignorant of what this place is for.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 18:32:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Excelsior!
  created: '2010-06-17 13:33:17'
date: '2010-01-25 22:14:53'
node_type: forum
title: 'Introducing: Joe''s Corner. A home for bug reports and feature requests'

---
