---
author:
  name: cuttlefish
  picture: 111881
body: "I've gotten in the habit of using the partialdiff (u2202) glyph as a base for
  eth. I'm concerned that this may be a bad practice.\r\nIn most fonts I've seen,
  partialdiff is in the form of a an italic or script delta, whether the font is italic
  or not. Is this necessary in a font that is not intended for setting math?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "Briem has become the go-to source for how to construct an eth. You might
    find this easier and more successful than your partialdiff method. \r\nhttp://briem.net/2/2.11/2.1.4.eth.htm"
  created: '2010-01-27 17:25:50'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I'm familiar with Briem's writings. I'm not putting a crossbar on partialdiff
    to make an eth; I'm making a correct eth without a crossbar and putting it in
    the partialdiff space, then referencing that to the eth space and adding the crossbar.
    \r\n\r\nI guess it makes as much/little sense as using long s as the base for
    f.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone care what a partialdiff looks like in a font if it doesn't
    also come with a full complement of obscure math symbols?"
  created: '2010-01-27 17:36:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://briem.net/2/2.11/2.1.4.eth.htm\r\n\r\nI make my eth from scratch,
    not canned ingredients.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 17:51:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I'm making a correct eth without a crossbar and putting it in the
    partialdiff space, then referencing that to the eth space and adding the crossbar.\"</cite>\r\nDunno,
    I've seen that done before, and I must say it annoys me.* Yes, both these characters
    may seem pretty obscure, plus they're both a bit twiddly to make, so I understand
    the temptation. But to me this is one to resist; think about it \u2013 these characters
    come from completely different cultural backgrounds, from completely different
    contexts, they also <em>appear</em> in different contexts combined with different
    other glyphs, and last but not least they <em>mean</em> completely different things
    \u2013 now why should they share the same genes? Because they might look a bit
    similar on a surface level? :-\\\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I make my eth from scratch, not
    canned ingredients.\"</cite>\r\nI don't, but if you alter/tweak enough, at some
    point it doesn't matter what the original ingredients were.\r\n\r\n[* Edit: I
    should maybe clarify that it annoys me from a potentially idealistic beginner's
    perspective that doesn't (yet) factor in ROI\u2026]"
  created: '2010-01-27 18:30:52'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: The partial derivative symbol shouldn't look like an eth without a crossbar.
    Its extender should be more bent and fill out the space more, and may well have
    a ball-like terminal. It should be italic in design, that is to say cursive and
    slightly inclined, because it is only used for mathematics. It is a letter-like
    symbol, not a letter. Therefore the design is very different from eth, which is
    a full-fledged letter and should harmonize with other letters of the Latin alphabet.
  created: '2010-01-27 20:01:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'So, when you draw a partial derivative symbol for an italic font, do you
    have to skew it even more than the general italic slant of the font? '
  created: '2010-01-27 22:10:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I would use the same cursive and inclined glyph for the roman and the italic.
    Many letter-like (and non-letter-like) symbols used in mathematics, the partial
    derivative symbol included, are not meant to come in different forms for the roman
    and the italic.
  created: '2010-01-27 23:13:52'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a little question that may be relevant or not.\r\n\r\nIf we look
    at the unicode file http://www.unicode.org/Public/UNIDATA/NamesList.txt, we can
    see that it contains the following characters (search for the word \"partial\"):\r\n<code>\r\n2202
    \   PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n1D715   MATHEMATICAL ITALIC PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n1D6DB
    \  MATHEMATICAL BOLD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n1D74F   MATHEMATICAL BOLD ITALIC
    PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n1D789   MATHEMATICAL SANS-SERIF BOLD PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n1D7C3
    \  MATHEMATICAL SANS-SERIF BOLD ITALIC PARTIAL DIFFERENTIAL\r\n<code>\r\n\r\nNow,
    here is a grab of the five last characters above taken from the chart \"Mathematical
    Alphanumeric Symbols\" to be found at the url http://www.unicode.org/charts/.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/partial_5321.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat
    should be filling the blank?\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-01-28 02:53:54'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is the partial symbol I get with the fourier  LaTeX package when I choose
    the option \"upright\" (<code>\\usepackage[upright}{fourier}</code>). That option
    gives upright capitals and upright greek letters in mathematical formulas, which
    is a standard in French mathematical typesetting.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fourierpartial_4052.jpg]"
  created: '2010-01-28 04:38:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why bother including math characters in a general purpose font?\r\nYou might
    just as well put your foundry logo in that slot, or a dingbat.\r\nWouldn't the
    only people who use a partial diff character be working in a math program with
    a specialist math font?\r\ni.e., as Michel indicates, unless a font includes a
    set of upright Greek characters, it will not be used by mathematicians.\r\nAlso,
    I don't believe mathematicians buy commercial fonts.\r\nCorrect me if I'm wrong. "
  created: '2010-01-28 04:58:12'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: '@Nick The partialdiff (u2202) glyph is part of the MacRoman encoding, and
    is therefore one of those things that is kind of expected to be there to make
    a font "minimally complete" even if nobody would ever use it. At least that''s
    what I''ve been told. I don''t know why it was included in the MacRoman encoding;
    so are a lot of other mysterious characters. It''s also part of TeX-Base encoding,
    but that makes more sense.'
  created: '2010-01-28 05:30:53'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>Also, I don't believe mathematicians buy commercial fonts.\r\nCorrect
    me if I'm wrong.</em>\r\n\r\nSome mathematicians do buy commercial fonts, but
    only very rarely for setting mathematics.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 07:23:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Nick, you're probably not serious, but one should never ever put one's foundry
    logo or a dingbat in a slot reserved for a specific character. The partial derivative
    symbol is a fairly common technical symbol and should be expected to crop up often
    inline in general textbooks, for example, which would not normally be set in a
    specialist maths font and could benefit from using symbols that harmonize well
    with the main text.\r\n\r\nMichel, thanks for that contribution. I didn't know
    about the different styles of the partial symbol being encoded as separate characters
    in Unicode or the upright symbols being preferred in French mathematical typesetting.
    I will retract my earlier claim that a partial symbol <em>needs</ems> to be italic.\r\n\r\nI
    should point out that this does not mean necessarily that one should put an upright
    partial symbol in one's roman and an italic in one's italic in the same slot.
    No one is going to use upright and italic partial symbols in the same text. Rather,
    if you're designing all those variants, you should treat them as separate characters
    and use the assigned Unicode slots.\r\n\r\nAs for Michel's question about what
    should be filling the blank in that picture, I think that U2202 is the natural
    answer if we think of \"roman regular\" as being the default character. The form
    of U2202 itself may be italic and identical to U1D715, or upright according to
    stylistic preference. The other characters are there as stylistic variants, which
    tells me Unicode thinks of the upright form as the default, but it does not matter
    in the least if we choose italic as the default form and not provide an upright
    form at all, because no one is ever going to need the full stylistic palette of
    partial symbols for the same text."
  created: '2010-01-28 07:41:54'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Because of its availability in less extensive fonts, I\u2019ve seen partialdiff
    used as a phonetic symbol. Its use for this purpose depends on it being similar
    to other Latin letters in the font, so in this narrow case it should have the
    same center angle as other letters.\r\n\r\nFor the curious, I\u2019ve seen it
    used as a replacement for schwa /\u0259/, as an interdental affricate /t\u03B8/
    or /d\xF0/, and surprisingly as a voiced interdental fricative which is usually
    represented with just edh /\xF0/."
  created: '2010-01-28 19:50:31'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are all the partial differential glyphs provided by the <a href=\"http://tug.ctan.org/cgi-bin/ctanPackageInformation.py?id=fourier\"><strong>LaTeX
    Fourier mathematical font</strong></a> (based on Utopia) which comes with the
    <a href=\"http://www.tug.org/mactex/2009/\"><strong>MacTeX-2009</strong></a> distribution.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/varpartialdiff_4535.jpg]\r\nThe
    left square corresponds to the basic character (regular and bold, upright and
    italic), the right square to a variant, which is close to having that common ball-like
    terminal that Brian mentioned above. The first line are the glyphs we get when
    calling fourier with the <code>upright</code> option, else the glyphs we obtain
    are those in the second line (slanted).\r\n\r\nThat character is used for partial
    derivatives, where a slightly slanted version is indeed quite common. It is also
    used for a boundary operator in differential geometry, for which I personally
    prefer an upright version.\r\n\r\nMichel.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 03:22:02'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks Michel, I had forgotten about the use as a boundary operator (it's
    been a while). I don't know that I would prefer an upright version for that use,
    but I see how one might want to distinguish between different uses of the symbol.
    Another consideration may be that the symbol generally appears right next to italic
    letters (e.g. \u2202<em>S</em>) and having an upright look recalls the similar
    use of upright letters as operators (e.g. bd<em>S</em>). But then as you mentioned
    with the French tradition, I guess different typographic traditions may have different
    preferences for upright and italic generally for mathematical typesetting.\r\n\r\nJames,
    thank you for mentionning the use in phonetic notation. Given how people have
    always tried to create phonetic symbols from what was available, this isn't surprising.
    In fact, I have noticed the partial derivative symbol being used for the schwa
    before, and probably for the eth also. This in my mind is as disgraceful as using
    a German Eszett for the beta. But using the partial derivative symbol for the
    dental affricate has a certain logic to it."
  created: '2010-01-29 07:32:16'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I guess different typographic traditions may have different preferences
    for upright and italic generally for mathematical typesetting.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    this paper entitled  \"Typesetting mathematics for science and technology according
    to ISO 31/XI\" (<a href=\"http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb18-1/tb54becc.pdf\">pdf</a>),
    it is said: <cite>The main and possibly the only difference between \"mathematical\"
    vs. \"physical\" mathematics lies in the use of upright and sloping letters. Scientists
    and technologists (should) use upright letters much more often than mathematicians.</cite>
    I knew that some prefer to write d<em>x</em> (with an upright d) instead of <em>dx</em>
    for the differential, but I did not know where it came from. \r\n\r\nHere is a
    grab of Hamilton equations taken from Nakahara \"<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Geometry-Topology-Physics-Graduate-Student/dp/0750306068\">Geometry,
    Topology and Physics</a>\" where the partial sign does not look very slanted in
    spite (or because) of the use of nearby italic letters.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hamilton_3690.jpg]\r\nInteresting.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 13:45:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The partial derivative symbol is a fairly common technical symbol and
    should be expected to crop up often inline in general textbooks, for example,
    which would not normally be set in a specialist maths font...</em>\r\n\r\nCould
    anyone post an example?"
  created: '2010-01-29 18:36:59'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Nick, the mathematics that this symbol belongs to is heavily used in natural
    sciences (physics, chemistry etc) and also in economics. I guess that most of
    the time, if figures in formulas that require an equation editor and thus a mathematical
    font. Yet, without it in standard web fonts, Martin Osborne could not have written
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/econo_4967.jpg]\r\n\r\non <a href=\"http://www.economics.utoronto.ca/osborne/MathTutorial/CLNF.HTM\">his
    web page</a> on mathematical methods for economic theory.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nPS
    I had to use a grab, typophile does not support the &lt;sub&gt; ... &lt;/sub&gt;
    tags."
  created: '2010-01-29 22:28:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for digging up the example, Michel.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI left the \"special
    math characters\" empty in my legacy format fonts, after the Adobe model, assuming
    that they would be substituted from default fonts.\r\n\r\nHowever, since OpenType
    I have been including glyphs for all those characters in both standard and OpenType
    fonts.\r\nIn most fonts, it doesn't really work to make partialdiff by cannibalizing
    the eth. Another chore for the reputable foundry."
  created: '2010-01-29 22:55:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Another chore for the reputable foundry.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe you could
    find inspiration from another reputable foundry, Adobe. Here are <a href=\"http://store4.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFont&code=ROSQ10005000\"><strong>Rosewood's</strong></a>
    mathematical operators  (a grab from their pdf Glyph complement sheet)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rosewood_5474.jpg]\r\nI
    wonder why they did that instead of leaving the characters undefined.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-01-30 01:32:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "When Adobe converted their type library to OpenType, they filled all the
    alphabetic fonts out to Adobe Western 2, which is a slight superset of WinANSI
    and MacRoman. For Adobe Originals where the added characters were at all relevant
    given the design, they got all the glyphs custom made. For non Adobe Originals,
    and Adobe Originals for which such glyphs were not very relevant (e.g. Rosewood),
    they had most glyphs automatically synthesized from a generic MM font.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-01-31 17:36:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Maybe you could find inspiration from another reputable foundry, Adobe.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    follow the FSI practice of custom designing the glyphs to the font, not automatic
    synthesis--which is really the old \"odd sorts\" practice of providing little
    used characters from a different font. Long ago, for instance, Italic fonts didn't
    even have their own capitals or figures, these being borrowed from the roman.
    \r\n\r\nI first did custom math operators for Fontesque, although I thought it
    unlikely that it would ever be used for setting calculus.\r\n\r\nThe principle
    of covering every possible eventuality is, IMO, a best practice for font producers,
    because it is more productive to assume that anything is possible than to spend
    time trying to figure out what isn't.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 17:56:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I downloaded from http://github.com/wspr/unicode-math Will Robertson's experimental
    LaTeX package, called unicode-math, intended to be an implementation of unicode
    maths for LaTeX using XeTeX (and later LuaTeX) typesetting engines.\r\n\r\nOn
    page 10 of his unicode-math.pdf document (dated 2009/11/01) he writes, concerning
    the partial differential U+2202 and the math italic partial differential U+1D715:\r\n\r\n<dl><dd>\r\nAt
    time of writing, both the Cambria Math and STIX fonts display these two glyphs
    in the same italic style, but this is hopefully a bug that will be corrected in
    the future \u2014 the \u2018plain\u2019 partial differential should really have
    an upright shape.\r\n</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nIf we take into account that the package
    will offer the following <code>math-style</code> options,\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mathstyle_6727.jpg]\r\nthat
    makes sense.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-04 03:28:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: So would it be safe to regard Will Robertson as an expert authority with regard
    to math typography? If so then U+2202 should indeed be an upright partialdiff
    glyph (unless the font is its self italic/oblique?). In that case, does it take
    the form of lowercase Greek delta, or similar to a reversed 6 as in the italic
    form?
  created: '2010-02-04 18:57:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "One thing is clear: everyone I know that typesets mathematics does it with
    LaTeX. Even papers on economics that I have found on the web and that use mathematics
    were written in LaTeX. Martin Osborne, that used a partial on his web site on
    economics (of which there is a grab above) has even written a package for LaTeX.
    Have a look at <a href=\"http://www.economics.utoronto.ca/osborne/\">his web page</a>.
    \r\n\r\nIn fact I am using pdflatex, because that gives me access to Type1 fonts
    (which was an improvement over previous metafont fonts). What do you think will
    happen when Opentype fonts become easily available to LaTeX users?  That is what
    XeLaTeX and LuaTeX will provide. Will Robertson is the person working on the math
    packages for XeLaTeX. When those packages become functional, users like me will
    expect to get the functionality that they announce. \r\n\r\nI think Michel Bovani
    did it correctly for the Fourier font (grabs above). Here is again a citation
    from Robertson:\r\n\r\n<cite>Table 7: The various forms of the partial differential.
    Note that in the fonts used\r\nto display these glyphs, the first upright partial
    is incorrectly shown in an italic\r\nstyle.</cite>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/partial_4734.jpg]\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nPS
    I have books with partial diff glyphs that vary a lot in the last 60 years. I
    may post a few pictures if that can be useful (and when I have time)."
  created: '2010-02-04 19:59:06'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Hmm, it seem to be enough to have a look at the fonts you must already have.
    Here is Arno Pro regular, semibold, bold, italic, semibold italic and bold italic:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arno_4879.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    the same with Utopia\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/utopia_5332.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-05 03:01:17'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "I don't have a current collection of Pro-grade fonts right now; thank you
    for your time in pointing these out.\r\n\r\nSo, from all this, I conclude that
    partial derivative sign at U+2202 should be an upright form, and legacy fonts
    with an italic form in this position are wrong. \r\nThe partial derivative sign
    resembles a reversed six, but it is neither a reversed six nor an eth without
    a crossbar. The arm from the right should be overarching to the left and may end
    in a heavy terminal.\r\n\r\nThank you all for enlightening my ignorance."
  created: '2010-02-05 03:39:53'
date: '2010-01-27 17:21:51'
node_type: forum
title: partialdiff and eth

---
