---
author:
  name: malbright
  picture: 111180
body: "User selectable fonts in Apple's new iBook app:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/apple-creation-0321-rm-eng_4470.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I just tweeted that same image. That is horrible text setting, once again.
    Why don't they do a right rag? I don't get it.
  created: '2010-01-27 19:11:26'
- author:
    name: von
    picture: 116650
  body: that was fast.
  created: '2010-01-27 19:14:59'
- author:
    name: Ulf Jacobsen
    picture: 114089
  body: A new era of typographical challenges and oppurtunities knocks on the door.
    On iPad Eve I feel, as book designer, editor and typographer, much the same excitement
    that came with the introduction of quality paperbacks in the 1950s. Our book culture
    cannot without mediation just be republished in new media. All our typographical
    skills are needed to make the tablets function in a humane and literate way and
    thereby assist the survival of the book.
  created: '2010-01-27 19:51:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Where did Chalkboard go!?\r\n\r\nI found the page turning effect interesting.
    It's not something that's been done on an eReader yet (that I know of) perhaps
    for a number of reasons including processor power and, well, it usually tends
    to be cheesy. But it may make sense on the iPad. \r\n\r\nI didn't see all the
    detailed spec's on the screen yet. Anyone know if it's just standard backlit LED?"
  created: '2010-01-27 19:55:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why don't they do a right rag?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause a few thousand
    designers who care about rivers in copy will complain far less than the millions
    of people who will get ticked when digital novels don\u2019t look just like the
    paper versions."
  created: '2010-01-27 20:13:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">User selectable fonts in Apple's new iBook app:\r\n\r\nlol. That list is
    too short to label user selectable. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2010-01-27 20:27:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina, Apple hasn't cared about typography for many years now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 20:28:41'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "The display is a LED-backlit IPS-display. App. a tech. developed by Hitachi
    with a larger viewing angle than other LCDs.\r\n\r\nApple cares about typography.
    It\u2019s the endusers that don\u2019t."
  created: '2010-01-27 20:42:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_5622.JPG]\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2010-01-27 20:56:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bert, Apple now only has a skeleton staff for type. They no longer show up
    to conferences. The only notable things they do in our field these days is stuff
    like plagiarize Comic Sans. Come on.\r\n\r\nBTW, the screen is only 1024\xD7768.
    For that high price, a rip-off. Also, it's not usable under light; they should
    have added an OLPC-style monochrome overlay, not least to compete against eBook
    readers.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYou don't <em>have</em> to only target the limited conscious
    tastes and sensibilities of users. A company can choose to make things better,
    deep down, long-term, in fact even if it only believes in the bottom-line.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:05:06'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Is the inclusion of Verdana a nod to the screen reading generation? ;)\r\n\r\nAFAIK
    the EPUB ebook format which the iPad uses can contain embedded fonts. So it's
    more the question if the publishers still know that appropriate choice of typeface
    can add to the reading experience.\r\n\r\n<em>Why don't they do a right rag?</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    implement hyphenation. Can't be that complicated."
  created: '2010-01-27 21:06:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@james\r\n\r\n<em>Because a few thousand designers who care about rivers
    in copy will complain far less than the millions of people who will get ticked
    when digital novels don\u2019t look just like the paper versions.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't
    be so sure about those millions of readers who are looking for versions that \"look
    like the paper versions\".\r\nDigital books aren't about the paper version onscreen.
    We've got PDF's for that already.\r\nJust MHO.\r\n\r\nGood H&J will win out over
    bad in the end. But in the meantime, there will be a lot of ragged right - you'll
    see.\r\n\r\nWhat a long strange trip it will be...\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:12:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "EPUB can contain embedded fonts, basically using the @font-face rule in the
    CSS and packing them up in the assets. But most e-reader software that I\u2019ve
    looked at ignores any embedded fonts. \r\n\r\nI haven\u2019t done exhaustive research,
    but Adobe\u2019s Digital Editions is the only one I\u2019ve encountered that supports
    @font-face and utilizes the embedded fonts. But I don\u2019t think it\u2019s available
    on any mobile or e-reader platforms.\r\n\r\nSetting aside the licensing etc. issues
    of @font-face, my question is whether the Apple iPad e-book software will support
    @font-face embedded fonts, or is only selectable among system-installed fonts.
    I suspect the latter, unfortunately. And it will probably be a closed system typographically,
    like the iPhone and iPod.\r\n\r\nIf by some chance it does support @font-face,
    then the next question will be whether it supports WOFF. Again, I suspect it doesn\u2019t.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:35:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Oh, and most e-reader apps offer a very simple setting to toggle justification
    off.
  created: '2010-01-27 21:37:02'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "The fact is that Apple is working its way to books in the same way it did
    with music. (Apps are something Apple generated all by itself.) \r\n\r\nWith books,
    I do get a bit concerned; Apple does not have a perfect record in the field of
    typography. And if Apple gets big enough, it does not have to think about that.
    Like Microsoft in too many fields; lowest common denomerator is quite enough.\r\n\r\nBut
    fingers crossed; this was long coming."
  created: '2010-01-27 21:39:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I agree with hrant. I think the iPad is great, and I'm sure I'll buy one
    at some point, but they didn't quite go all the way into eReader land with a proper
    screen. Maybe that's a good thing giving the competition some hope to continue
    innovating on that level. \r\n\r\nI do wonder if things like the kindle app will
    be allowed to co-exist on the iPad. There's the hardware, but if they still allow
    other eReader apps, that could be a very good thing.\r\n\r\n\"Apple does not have
    a perfect record in the field of typography\"\r\n\r\nThat said, many many book
    publishers don't have a great record in the field of typography either. :/"
  created: '2010-01-27 21:54:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think Hrant is right. Sadly. I mean sure it's nice that Apple is now \xABcool\xBB
    and successful instead of a bunch of weird outsider hippie nerds, but I'd still
    prefer them to stay true to their original target audience and what they originally
    stood for, and continue to focus on making their computers good tools* rather
    than sucking up to a broad consumerist and entertainment-craving public.\r\n\r\n*
    Which for the record, I do think they are.\r\nBut 1024\xD7768? What is that, a
    joke? :-\\"
  created: '2010-01-27 22:02:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I found the page turning effect interesting. It's not something
    that's been done on an eReader yet</cite>\r\n\r\nLexcycle\u2019s Stanza app on
    the iPhone/iPod Touch has a page turn transition. And the speed of the transition
    is tunable to achieve something that feels natural with your reading speed. I
    don\u2019t find it cheesy at all, and much more familiar than the other options
    like slide or none."
  created: '2010-01-27 22:02:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Like Microsoft in too many fields\r\n\r\nMS did not \"have to\" spend money
    having the Core Fonts or CT fonts made.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 22:02:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kentlew\r\n\r\nI don't find the page turn cheesy either. And it's a fun
    little virtual reality thing.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm waiting for is the digital equivalent
    of the flip-through. Which I'm imagining as a continuous right-to-left scroll.
    (At least on a per-chapter basis. I hate having to go back to the TOC or Index
    to go searching. And what if I just want to get the gist of the book?)\r\nAnybody
    seen anything like that?\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-01-27 22:15:18'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "So, a million dollar question... drum roll... are <em>you</em> going to buy
    it ? \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-27 23:50:51'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "> MS did not \"have to\" spend money having the Core Fonts or CT fonts made.\r\n\r\nThey
    could also give up their idea of a font family consisting of Plain, Italic, Bold
    and Bold Italic, and give us a brake with the coding."
  created: '2010-01-27 23:55:10'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: '@Richard: When you tap at the bottom of the screen, Stanza will present a
    scroll bar that takes you quickly through by chapter. Not quite the flip-through
    you describe. But easier than clicking out to a TOC.  '
  created: '2010-01-28 00:02:06'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Why would there be Coching or Baskerville for text?!? \r\n\r\nI understand
    Palatino (and to some extenct Times). Baskerville for those disappearing thin
    lines? And Coching just for the small x-height? Verdana is given. For Ikea."
  created: '2010-01-28 00:40:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are you going to buy it ?\r\n\r\nYou know, if I didn't have to pay $15/month*
    to get 3G access\r\non it, I might. The way I see it, I already pay money for
    Internet\r\naccess with my cable provider - I don't want to pay some monthly\r\ntithe
    to one of those skanky cellphone companies. Right now I can\r\nuse my HP 2140
    just fine with WiFi. And it multi-tasks...\r\n\r\n* At the low end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 01:26:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '@hrant: 3g is an added option. It does wifi by default. '
  created: '2010-01-28 01:28:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know - I'm saying I already have a highly-portable, WiFi\r\ndevice that
    does more than the iPad. Except react to petting.\r\n\r\nBTW, you need to pay
    about $350 more to get a model that's 3G-capable...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 01:48:50'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I think the reason for Apple not going to OLED was books.
  created: '2010-01-28 02:07:09'
- author:
    name: no name
    picture: 119058
  body: "I just found this font on the ipad site, can anyone identify it?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fonttest_5720.JPG]"
  created: '2010-01-28 02:36:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, an article I read earlier seems to have been incorrect about\r\nthe
    premium for getting a 3G-capable version. Engadget is saying\r\nthe difference
    will be about $130.\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't know if you guys know this, but the B&N
    Nook has a\r\nhack that lets you run a browser on it. And it has 3G built-in,
    all\r\nfor $260 (and no monthly fee). The main issue is it's grayscale.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 02:55:13'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: 'I can''t wait to get one of these. '
  created: '2010-01-28 04:25:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Jens Kutilek: <cite>Or implement hyphenation.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nThat's it,
    please. Same problem with the Kindle (and web pages for that matter).\r\n\r\nWe
    had it since Gutenberg, haven't we?"
  created: '2010-01-28 10:12:27'
- author:
    name: TorbjornLunde
  body: "> I found the page turning effect interesting. It's not something that's
    been done on an eReader yet (that I know of)...\r\n\r\nThe page turning and the
    library seems to be identical to the <a href=\"http://www.classicsapp.com/\">Classics
    Iphone app</a>."
  created: '2010-01-28 12:23:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hmm. Now that Classics app page turn \u2014 that one seems rather cheesy
    and artificial to me. I hope the iBooks app isn\u2019t quite like that."
  created: '2010-01-28 12:38:05'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "1024x768, 9.7\", which is \r\n132 dpi, not too bad for lcd these days\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 12:48:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'How does that compare to iPhone? If it uses the same rendering (regular antialaising)
    that''s going to look a bit soft isn''t it, esp at small sizes? '
  created: '2010-01-28 14:38:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kentlew\r\n\r\nThanks for the Stanza tip. I had a feeling I was missing
    something.\r\n\r\n@all\r\nRan across one wag's thumbnail analysis of the iPad
    that rings true to me as far as the iPad as an e-book reader:\r\n\r\n&#8220;As
    for the Kindle comparisons... \r\nThe Kindle is $259. The Kindle DX (similar screen
    size to the iPad) is $489. Both include free 3g connectivity and have battery
    life of a week. \r\nThe same functionality on the iPad would cost $629 (for the
    16Gb with 3G) and then $180 a year for the low plan of 3G wireless access. And
    your battery would only last 10 hours, so you'd need to plug it in all the time.
    Plus, the books seem to be about 50% more expensive than on the Kindle. So, as
    a straight ebook reader, it loses. \r\nIts advantage comes in being more than
    that. Unfortunately, it's not all it could be. It's basically an iPod Touch with
    a big screen. No camera (for Skype), no Adobe Flash, no USB ports, no SD expandability,
    no multitasking, no real PC apps (OpenOffice.org, Firefox, etc).&#8221;\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:01:46'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "Half again the resolution of a normal screen.\r\nI've been looking at the
    iPhone (150dpi) or equivalent Blackberry (180dpi) as possible \r\nways to have
    a higher-res preview of glyphs. Could be useful.\r\n\r\nKind of annoying that
    a lot of its potential is truncated not by technology but by\r\na need to control
    and limit the device."
  created: '2010-01-28 15:14:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The iPhone is 163 ppi, not 150. The iPad screen is very close to the ppi of
    the 17" MacBook Pro (133 ppi).
  created: '2010-01-28 15:22:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"no Adobe Flash, no USB ports, no SD expandability, no multitasking, no
    real PC apps (OpenOffice.org, Firefox, etc).\u201D\"\r\n\r\nRight, but it's not
    meant to be a full PC. So I don't think those are detriments. Between the eBook
    thing and the iWorks/keyboard, it definitely feels like it's going to be heavily
    targeted at the .edu market. \r\n\r\nFor most PC users, I think it will be very
    much like the iPod itself...an accessory. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure how it'll work
    as a eReader, though, given that it's a back-lit screen. Not the most ideal for
    reading long texts. "
  created: '2010-01-28 15:31:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it's not meant to be a full PC.\r\n\r\nWhich is exactly the problem.\r\nIt's
    just another gadget.\r\nCheck out the Viliv.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:35:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 132 dpi, not too bad for lcd these days\r\n\r\n?\r\nIt's at the very low
    end. Is Apple supposed to be low-end?\r\nMany HTC phones are 250 dpi. Same with
    the Sony P mini-netbook.\r\nWhen it comes to browsing and reading (anything besides
    looking\r\nat purdy pitcherz) that makes all the difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:35:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">It's at the very low end. Is Apple supposed to be low-end?\r\n\r\nThe google
    pad, at 88 dpi, is what then? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 15:49:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'll admit I would have replaced Cochin by Garamond, and Verdana by Univers...
    and been strongly tempted to add two more font choices (Caledonia and Bembo, perhaps),
    but I can't quarrel too much with the selection.\r\n\r\nI think it's sort of cute
    that now people can get a box that is both your iPhone and your Kindle... although
    I consider computers a more useful application for that kind of electronics.\r\n\r\nBut,
    yes, the word spacing is quite wide in the photo, and I can see why Apple doesn't
    trust itself to hyphenate other people's proprietary and copyrighted texts perfectly
    every time: they're afraid, I suspect, that if their hyphenation software makes
    a mistake, they'll offend a publisher. (And letting people turn the hyphenation
    off would presumably make too confusing and complicated an interface.)"
  created: '2010-01-28 16:39:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's a \"google pad\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 17:08:25'
- author:
    name: csr
    picture: 109870
  body: "I've been using apps like the McSweeneys app on my iPhone that are actually
    really enjoyable for reading short stories (I've never actually tried reading
    a full novel on my iPhone). The font is fixed and there is a button to switch
    between two sizes of text.\r\nI wonder if the author of the e-book on the iPad
    (or iPhone/osX, if the whole iBook thing trickles down to other devices) will
    have control to \"lock\" the typeface, or if the user can change that according
    to their preference? "
  created: '2010-01-28 17:09:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'in the same space, i think i''d prefer one of these: http://www.litl.com/essays/hardware.htm'
  created: '2010-01-28 19:32:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Thanks for the tip.
  created: '2010-01-28 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: ">Check out the Viliv.\r\n\r\nwhats with all the girls?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myviliv.com/eng/product/s5.asp"
  created: '2010-01-28 20:54:22'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "@mike_duggan: Marketing.\r\nor perhaps the vibration feedback touch screen."
  created: '2010-01-28 21:15:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They turn software into hardware.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:21:37'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Some of my best friends are on Apple\u2019s \u201Cskeleton staff for type.\u201D"
  created: '2010-01-29 01:29:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They must spend their days making suggestions of how to talk\r\nabout designing
    type. Which of course explains their results.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 01:48:59'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: ">It's at the very low end.\r\n\r\nSorry, I meant 132 dpi is high res for
    computer monitors. Anything over 100dpi seems unusual these days. For computer
    monitors. And the Ipad is not a monitor. Nor a computer. Nor a phone. "
  created: '2010-01-29 02:34:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I think the page turning is a disaster, as is the bookshelf. Apple consistently\r\nbrag
    about the future and changing the face of various media yet they present\r\nus
    with this constrained, hypocritical simulacra. They should have concentrated\r\non
    the typography. It's like Microsoft Bob all over again. Step backwards.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MSBobStudy_3567.JPG.jpeg]"
  created: '2010-01-29 10:15:22'
- author:
    name: boardman
    picture: 110337
  body: Remember that Apple will likely be tweaking the interface of the iPad, and
    hopefully its eBook typography, for the next few weeks, months and years. What
    bugs me quite a bit is the very blatant "imitation" of the [[http://www.classicsapp.com/
    | Classics]] app interface and page turning (as mentioned). Much remains to be
    seen.
  created: '2010-01-29 11:35:45'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I simply don't understand why the interface needs to be laden with\r\nreferences
    to the books/shelves/paper, when that is the very thing\r\nApple is trying to
    replace. I'm all for e-reading, but I am disappointed\r\nwith this retrograde
    approach. It's not how sophisticated the illusion\r\nis that disturbs me, it is
    the compulsion to attempt the illusion itself."
  created: '2010-01-29 11:50:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I simply don't understand why the interface needs to be laden with\r\nreferences
    to the books/shelves/paper\"\r\n\r\nThat's my gut reaction most of the time, too.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I think that's probably what has been lacking in the ebook market. People
    likely do want some of the 'bookiness' in their digital device.\r\n\r\nI have
    a hunch that the 'bookshelf' and 'page turning' may just be options, as well.
    Given that it's iTunes based, I'm sure there are more modern 'views' to navigate
    one's way through their library. \r\n\r\nI also think the periodical industry
    is likely pining for a 'paper' version of digital delivery.\r\n\r\nI've not liked
    the concept in the past, but I'm warming up to it as the devices get larger and
    higher resolutions. I think the NYtimes is heading in the right direction with
    the technologies they're building. A cross between websites and a paper. \r\n\r\nIf
    I could subscribe to magazines on an e-reader, and be able to retain the tactility
    of pages, but with the added benefit of the technology allowing for certain levels
    of interactivity, I think that might hit a sweet spot. "
  created: '2010-01-29 16:50:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>I have a hunch that the 'bookshelf' and 'page turning' may just be options,
    as well. Given that it's iTunes based, I'm sure there are more modern 'views'
    to navigate one's way through their library.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are probably right."
  created: '2010-01-29 23:20:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant(re. resolution): <em>[132dpi is] at the very low end. Is Apple supposed
    to be low-end? Many HTC phones are 250 dpi. Same with the Sony P mini-netbook.
    When it comes to browsing and reading (anything besides looking at purdy pitcherz)
    that makes all the difference.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, don't forget to factor in screen
    size when talking comparatively about resolution. Higher resolution screens have
    increased incidence of manufacturing faults (dead pixels), and hence attrition
    in terms of the number of screens rejected in quality assurance. This attrition
    rate is acceptable in the manufacture of screens for small devices such as phones,
    but as screen size increases not only are the per unit manufacturing costs higher
    but the number of potentially dead pixels also increases. The attrition rate becomes
    unacceptable. For its size, the iPad 132dpi screen resolution cab be considered
    relatively high."
  created: '2010-01-29 23:40:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> For its size, the iPad 132dpi screen resolution\r\n> can be considered
    relatively high.\r\n\r\nBut not for its price, nor its prestige-value.\r\n\r\nIf
    you look at netbooks, even modest brands are starting to\r\nget \"HD\" displays:
    1366 by 768. They're 10\" in size, which\r\ntranslates to ~160 dpi. My HP 2140
    (which I bought about\r\n7 months ago now) has such a screen, and it was $450.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying there's a chasm between 132 and 160, but\r\nApple thinks they can get
    away with saving a few bucks\r\non the display, because the iTard population is
    on a steep\r\nrise. Sadly, they're probably right. And come this Xmas\r\nthey'll
    cut the price drastically*, and all the envious iTard\r\nwannabes will jump from
    one iFad bandwagon to another.\r\n\r\n* But it will still have lousy text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 00:12:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2010-01-30 02:50:57'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: I wish they would drop the book paradigm completely for eReders. On my iphone,
    i love just scrolling up through a chapter, not page turning... just my thoughts.
  created: '2010-01-30 03:09:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> I bought about 7 months ago now) has such a screen, and it was $450.\r\n\r\nI
    feel sorry for you but let's leave it at that. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-01-30 13:16:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not their cheesy plastic one, it's the business model, [nearly] fully-loaded.
    I originally bought it to avoid taking my 17\" to Armenia for a month in the summer*,
    and in tight situations it's just the ticket. I admit it doesn't get used enough,
    but when it does nothing can replace it. Certainly not an unportable iPod.\r\n\r\n*
    I would've done the same for ATypI-Mexico,\r\nexcept my presentation wasn't ready.
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 15:21:49'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Haha, I was thinking the same thing when watching the keynote. Look at those
    HUGE wordspacing! That is just appalling.
  created: '2010-01-30 17:24:44'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Maybe all future Apple devices should have the words [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hitchhiker%27s_Guide_to_the_Galaxy_(fictional)|DON'T
    PANIC]]\r\nprinted on them in large, friendly letters."
  created: '2010-01-31 05:46:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Reminds me of the famous Steve Jobs quote...\r\n\r\n\"And we designed it
    all into the Mac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I had
    never dropped in on that single course in college, the Mac would have never had
    multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts.\"\r\n\r\nAs I doubt Steve has
    forgotten about type, my guess is the ebooks app is a placeholder - something
    that may get fixed in V2 or V3. "
  created: '2010-01-31 15:51:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, you're being graciously over-optimistic.\r\n\r\nJobs is not a type
    person, he's a salesman. Salesmen sell what sells.\r\nAnd what sells Macs today
    is lustre (which you can't spell without \"lust\" :-).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 16:00:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"what sells Macs today is lustre\"</cite>\r\nWell, some people actually
    do appreciate Macs as very good work tools.\r\nBut you're probably right in that
    the hordes who buy them for their sexiness* \r\nare outnumbering us now, and it
    does seem that Jobs&Co. let them dictate \r\nthe agenda. Which, like I said above,
    does to a degree mean betraying what\r\nApple originally stood for.\r\n(* Which
    apparently doesn't [need to] involve good typography\u2026)"
  created: '2010-01-31 16:09:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Jobs is not a type person, he's a salesman. Salesmen sell what sells.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    success of Apple, IMHO, is because he's not a typical salesman. Rather, he's a
    demanding project manager who insists on focusing on the details of the product.\r\n\r\nA
    real salesman doesn't care what he's selling. Jobs does care. \r\n\r\nGranted,
    he doesn't care what we think of it. He only cares what he thinks of it. It's
    worked fairly well for the company thus far. \r\n\r\nA lot of the griping goes
    away once people touch the device in an Apple Store. "
  created: '2010-01-31 17:36:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I will probably wait until the next major upgrade before I buy it. I always
    thought the smartphone screen was too small for me and any laptop too cumbersome.
    This is a good spot for me but I know Apple will make big improvements after they
    kick this around for a couple of years.
  created: '2010-01-31 19:15:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A real salesman doesn't care what he's selling. Jobs does care.\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe either of those.\r\n\r\n> It's worked fairly well for the company
    thus far.\r\n\r\nScrew the company. I care about users.\r\n\r\n> A lot of the
    griping goes away once people\r\n> touch the device in an Apple Store.\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly part of the problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 23:32:32'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "The iPad reminds me of the datapads on Star Trek. I\u2019ll get to be an
    ensign turning in my report to Picard or something.\r\n\r\nMike :-)"
  created: '2010-02-01 00:05:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I don't believe either of those.\"\r\n\r\nWell, I've known several Sales
    people that will tell you that. Their passion and skill is in the selling, not
    the selling of a particular product.\r\n\r\nAs for Jobs caring, well, it's well
    known that he is not an easy guy to work for given his demands on the products
    they produce. \r\n\r\n\"That's exactly part of the problem.\"\r\n\r\nHow so? I'd
    say the success of the store shows that they are very user-focused products. Lots
    of people walk in there, touch the stuff, then end up walking out with less money
    in their wallet. "
  created: '2010-02-01 02:20:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They are very focused on the worst qualities of users. Politicians and prostitutes
    are very user-focused too. When I talk about helping users, to a good extent I
    mean in spite of themselves. To me design is quite a bit like parenting.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I walk into an Apple store, I never get my questions answered.\r\nI just get dumb
    buzzwords and dumber smiles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 06:22:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I care about users.\"</cite> \r\n\r\nI'm really not necessarily talking
    about the iPad here but:\r\n\r\n1) Computers can be very pretty and still be very
    good tools.\r\n\r\n2) Aesthetics can provide added value beyond a \xABthis is
    sexay and mah friends will luv it\xBB reaction, and in Macs I think that is the
    case. While I agree that Apple is now focusing too much on making sexy stuff for
    the masses, there are a whole bunch of Mac users who are not stupid lifestyle
    junkies, but do get more satisfaction and more productivity from working in an
    environment and with a tool that isn't ugly \u2013 that provides some basic aesthetic
    satisfaction, and makes it feel like some thought went into designing it.* A bit
    like people are more comfortable (and \u2013 I would claim \u2013 more productive)
    working in an office that isn't all grey wall paint, cheap plastic, and smelly
    old carpets, and wiring that runs in ugly ways because it was easier to produce
    that way. \r\nAnd parenting? Dunno, but when I work, I don't want to be taught
    what's good for me, I just want my work environment and tools to not slow me down,
    and not annoy me, and facilitate a smooth process.\r\n(* Which obviously means
    other things than just aesthetics too.)"
  created: '2010-02-01 07:17:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"When I walk into an Apple store, I never get my questions answered.\"\r\n\r\nSounds
    like you have a bad Apple store in your neck of the world.\r\n\r\nIn the US here,
    the Apple store is one of the few places where I (mostly) trust the salesfolks
    to know what they are talking about. Granted, this is the land of Best Buy, so
    we really have no where to go other than up in terms of improving the retail experience.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with your sentiment on 'helping users'. I think Apple does that
    fairly well, at least compared to your standard off-the-shelf Windows box, which
    typically involves a bit of knowledge to clean out the system and install the
    proper security patches and software. \r\n\r\nA lot of iPad griping is purely
    griping about the spec's on paper. Which is fine, but not really of much concern
    to Apple. Their thing is having people touch their products and that, alone, seems
    to be a strong enough method of moving product to keep them in a healthy financial
    position. For every Apple product, there is a competitor's product that is a)
    cheaper and b) has a more robust spec sheet. Yet they just don't have quite teh
    same tactile appeal. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 15:03:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) You keep talking about physical touch. That's why I mentioned lust. Not
    a good thing.\r\n2) I think it's in the mind. People are sheep.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 15:40:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You keep talking about physical touch. That's why I mentioned lust. Not
    a good thing.\"\r\n\r\nPhysical interaction. So both the hardware and software.\r\n\r\nYou
    call that lust. I call that user experience. \r\n\r\n\"I think it's in the mind.
    People are sheep.\"\r\n\r\nThe 'sheep following fashion' factor of Apple's success
    is way overstated."
  created: '2010-02-01 17:30:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Re-focusing: What's really over-stated these days\r\nis Apple's commitment
    to good type and typography.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 17:35:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'd agree with you on that. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 17:47:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Making broad statements is easy.\r\nAs is changing the subject back to something
    that's been previously agreed upon. But sure, call it \xABre-focusing\xBB the
    thread.  :-\\"
  created: '2010-02-01 19:13:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, that might have been a little petty (although\r\nI suspect some people
    still don't admit the sad truth).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 19:20:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>User selectable fonts in Apple's new iBook app:</cite>\r\n\r\nI, for
    one, don't want to change typeface in my books, I just want to read them, and
    (want to) trust the designer to choose the right typeface for the task."
  created: '2010-02-02 00:19:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: If it works like other e-books (hardware or software), the same font is used
    for all books, with an option to choose the default font and size.
  created: '2010-02-02 00:28:38'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Maybe all future Apple devices should have the words DON'T PANIC\r\nprinted
    on them in large, friendly letters.</em>\r\n\r\nComic Sans is <em>the</em> one
    then."
  created: '2010-02-02 06:44:12'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>If it works like other e-books (hardware or software), the same font
    is used for all books, with an option to choose the default font and size.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I know. Mine was just a cry against the shortcomings of current e-books."
  created: '2010-02-02 07:20:26'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "<em>apankrat - \"Comic Sans is the one then.\"</em>\r\n\r\nSo long as the
    words are set within a requisite speech bubble then Comic Sans would be fine.
    And certainly preferable to Apple's typographic crime that is/was [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago_(typeface)|Chicago]]."
  created: '2010-02-02 15:59:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To see who really cares about typography, go about 1:15 into the\r\nvideo
    here: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/8515915.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 03:46:56'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@wormwood\r\n\r\nHey, Chicago isn't a bad font, but the way Apple used it
    was totally uncalled for."
  created: '2010-02-17 01:52:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Excuse me?! Chicago is crap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 02:03:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Chicago is crap.</cite>\r\n\r\nChicago was a brilliant interface typeface
    in its original pixel form (be it on the first Macs or on monochrome iPods). \r\nIt
    should've stayed there."
  created: '2010-02-17 13:15:07'
- author:
    name: wormwood
    picture: 111794
  body: "Even as a pixel font Chicago has all the charm of broken teeth.\r\nThe vector
    version is simply absurd...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chicago_5615.gif]\r\n\r\nNone
    so blind as an Apple fan?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 14:26:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'There should be a wood type edition of Chicago. '
  created: '2010-02-17 15:06:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'm a long-time Apple fan, but I have always disliked Chicago, especially
    the outline version. Bleah.
  created: '2010-02-17 16:07:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'I like the band Chicago, and the broadway show and movie, Chicago but the
    font should never have been anything but a bitmap low-rez screen font for early
    computers. '
  created: '2010-02-17 16:12:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Just to be clear: I never considered Chicago an handsome typeface by any
    stretch. I just consider it a successful solution for a very specific problem. '
  created: '2010-02-17 18:05:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I just consider it a successful solution for a very specific problem.\"\r\n\r\nExactly,
    Riccardo. It is like a temporary brace used in building construction, even though
    ugly, It does a fine job holding up a wall until the structure is completed but
    should be discarded after its job is done."
  created: '2010-02-17 18:32:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Unfortunately it was replaced with... Charcoal!  :-/\r\nAlthough to be fair
    the limitations that were put\r\non Charcoal were probably akin to a straight-jacket.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 19:04:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Excuse me?! Chicago is crap.\r\n\r\nCoprolite is, I believe, the correct
    term.\r\n\r\n>Unfortunately it was replaced with... Charcoal...\r\n\r\nSame thing
    could happen to you, and I for 1 would not  be happy.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-18 13:05:35'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: For those interested in creating eBooks in the ePub format from InDesign,
    take a look at this MAX 2009 video <a href="http://2009.max.adobe.com/online/session/238">Creating
    an eBook for Distribution on Sony Reader Digital Book, Amazon Kindle, and Apple
    iPhone</a> by Colin Fleming.
  created: '2010-02-23 19:39:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Miguel!
  created: '2010-02-23 19:41:59'
- author:
    name: Medienprodukt
    picture: 120089
  body: "There is more typography bundled with the iPad than the picture actually
    shows. To help Interface-Designers, Art Directors and Software Developers working
    for the iPad I came up with an App that makes it really easy to explore the Typefaces
    provided by the iPhone OS: iTalics for iPad. I would be happy if you give it a
    try and provide some feedback. iTalics is available at the Apple App Store:\r\n\r\n[[itms://itunes.apple.com/us/app/italics/id366581431?mt=8]]"
  created: '2010-06-03 12:53:44'
- author:
    name: Laurens
  body: "There is now a free app that allows you to get a list of all the typefaces
    on an iPad. It is aptly called Typefaces and can be found at http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/typefaces/id292461457?mt=8\r\n\r\nI
    have used it to create a small poster of all the fonts that ship with iPads. That
    PDF can be found halfway this page: http://www.prepressure.com/fonts/basics/ios-4-fonts"
  created: '2010-08-17 06:49:29'
date: '2010-01-27 18:59:46'
title: Fonts on the iPad

---
