---
author:
  name: RahimSnow
  picture: 114570
body: "Must the fonts used in the body of a book (sans for headings, serif for the
  text) also be the exact same ones used on the cover for the title, subtitle, and
  author information?\r\n\r\nFor example, if I was doing the book text in [[http://vllg.com/Klim/Feijoa|Feijoa]]
  ([[http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/families/ff_milo/|FF Milo]] for the headings),
  would using [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/arno/italic-display/|Arno Pro Display
  Italic]] for the title and FF Milo for the author info work on the cover?\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance for your book design advice.\r\n\r\nRahim"
comments:
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Very often book covers are designed by a different person than who designed
    the interior. The cover title font definitely doesn't have to relate to anything
    besides the content of the book. It's almost a logo in that regard.\r\n\r\nBut
    it all comes down to whatever standards the publisher or art director has set."
  created: '2010-01-28 21:09:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "To expand a little on what Jason said, some designers feel the jacket is
    an extension of the interior. I once had an interior design (almost) rejected
    because the art director, who was doing the jacket, didn't have the fonts I was
    proposing for the text. She felt strongly about maintaining the look of the interior.
    Others feel the function of a jacket is like a poster.\r\n\r\nNot an argument
    you can win, whichever side you pick. \r\n\r\nIf it is your choice, the jacket
    (cover for a paperback) design may well be affected by how the book is to be sold.
    From a catalog with little thumbnail images, surrounded by lots of whitespace
    & a good written description of the text? On a rack in a bookstore, where it has
    to compete with all the other covers for attention? Etc."
  created: '2010-01-28 22:21:29'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "So what you're saying is that it can really go either way?\r\n\r\nMaybe the
    serif on the cover shouldn't be too similar to the serif on the interior?  Maybe
    if you're going to use a different one on the cover and in the body, there should
    be some contrast between them as well?\r\n\r\nHmmmmm......\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2010-01-29 17:36:26'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I think that it partly depends upon the nature of the book and its niche
    or category. Fine books tend to want to be more traditionally harmonious from
    outside to inside. General trade and mass-market, not so much.\r\n\r\nAs a designer,
    I started out idealistic about covers and interiors. When I became creative director
    at a publisher, I had to learn to adopt a more pragmatic approach. As has been
    mentioned, very often the interior and the cover end up being handled by different
    designers.\r\n\r\nI think that going into it with a requirement that cover and
    interior typography be the same is an unnecessary (and perhaps ill-advised) constraint.
    The two situations frequently have different needs and demands. Today\u2019s book
    cover is mostly advertising/poster. The cover must entice; the interior must communicate.
    \r\n\r\nSometimes the same type palette can serve both needs. Often not.\r\n\r\nEmerson\u2019s
    oft-quoted quip from <em>Self-Reliance</em> comes to mind: \u201CA foolish consistency
    is the hobgoblin of little minds.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.\u201D\r\n\r\nSince the two aspects
    were handled by different teams, I always took it as my job as creative director
    to make sure that the elements would come together and harmonize in the end \u2014
    from directing the initial concepts to working with transition elements (like
    title page or back cover) to make sure that the overall object felt like it made
    perfect sense in the end."
  created: '2010-01-29 17:58:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I prefer for them to match. But if I'm only doing the cover I can only express
    this to the client. Luckily I'm usually doing both. :^>
  created: '2010-01-29 17:58:43'
- author:
    name: GrahamD
    picture: 118885
  body: "Tschichold's thoughts as outlined in \"The Form of the Book\" don't have
    many contemporary adherents (particularly the dust jacket as cigarette package
    analogy), but I've always admired the tenacity and intelligence of this passage:\r\n\r\n\"Only
    the book jacket offers the opportunity to let formal fantasy reign for a time.
    But it is no mistake to strive for an approximation between the typography of
    the jacket and that of the book. The jacket is first and foremost a small poster,
    an eye-catcher, where much is allowed that would be unseemly within the pages
    of the book itself. It is a pity that the cover, the true garb of a book, is so
    frequently neglected in favor of today\u2019s multicolor jacket. Perhaps for this
    reason many people have fallen into the bad habit of placing books on the shelf
    while still in their jackets. I could understand this if the cover were poorly
    designed or even repulsive. But as a rule, book jackets belong in the waste paper
    basket, like empty cigarette packages.\""
  created: '2010-01-29 18:17:13'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Graham:\r\n\r\nWonderful post! \r\n\r\nSo am I correct in assuming that etiquette
    dictates we display our books without their dust jackets?\r\n\r\nI've often wondered
    about this. Protecting my books is one thing, but there is usually no dust or
    dirt that ever gets near them.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, some dust jackets can
    be quite beautiful. I suppose it's a matter of personal taste. "
  created: '2010-01-29 20:10:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Graham, that\u2019s funny. I posted <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/44943#comment-276984\">a
    similar Tschichold quote</a> in an older thread."
  created: '2010-01-29 21:09:57'
- author:
    name: GrahamD
    picture: 118885
  body: "I read the book when the bookstore I worked at in the '90s got a copy. True
    to Tschicold's vision, the book itself was lovely... top quality materials and
    typesetting (in Sabon, I imagine). The dust jacket was made of the lowest grade
    of paper I have ever seen for a jacket (\"Not too durable,\" as Florian's quote
    has it) and was set in white reversed type on black. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I hang
    onto dust jackets. Many of them are quite nice, and they have a huge influence
    on resale value. If I ever track down \"Form of the Book,\" I shall keep its paltry
    jacket too, as an in-joke."
  created: '2010-01-29 21:22:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I think a case can often be made for the cover/jacket not matching the interior
    as there  are not many great text faces that have a matching face suitable for
    large sizes.
  created: '2010-01-29 21:33:31'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: I remember reading a quote from book designer who confessed to purposely designing
    book jackets so ugly, that people would be forced to throw them away.
  created: '2010-01-29 22:23:36'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: I agree with most if the others, you can do what you want. Personally, I usually
    keep them the same where possible.
  created: '2010-01-30 01:01:06'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Thank you everyone for your insightful comments and personal interpretations/positions
    on the topic.\r\n\r\nKent Lew's statement, \"The cover must entice; the interior
    must communicate,\" is a very helpful guideline as I move forward with my own
    decisions about my book design.\r\n\r\nRegarding dust jackets: for paperbacks,
    the dust jacket doesn't exist. The cover is part of the \"form of the book.\"
    So do your views about the relationship between cover and interior remain the
    same for paperbacks?\r\n\r\nRahim"
  created: '2010-01-30 03:45:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: Ideally, there is always a good and deliberate relationship between cover/jacket
    and interior. But that relationship need not be one of absolute conformity.
  created: '2010-01-30 14:03:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I like them to match, or at least work together. But most of the books I
    do are art books, cookbooks, where the cover is of a piece with the design of
    the interior. Not a \"poster\". God I hate the idea that the cover is a sales
    tool. \r\n\r\nIt's different in trade publishing where, as was pointed out, they
    are often done not by the same designer, not even the same department. I used
    to work on trade covers and it was like a little death each time I opened my book
    and the interior was completely off. OTOH, the cover can change a zillion times
    and if the interior is on a deadline sometimes it can't wait for the marketing
    geniuses to make up their minds.\r\n\r\nI once did an interior for a cookbook.
    They sent me the cover for reference but said it didn't have to match. The cover
    was HIDEOUS. Then (because I had suggested it) they decided I should match the
    cover fonts, which by that time had changed, still awful. So I incorporated their
    fonts, reluctantly, and then when I got the book the cover had gone back to the
    ugly original, I had done an equally ugly interior, and they didn't work at all
    together.\r\n\r\nOh and yes, the relationship is the same if it's a paperback.
    On a HC, the cover, or case, should match the jacket."
  created: '2010-01-31 06:02:12'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "And James, you're right about text vs display fonts, but the way to work
    them together, ideally, is to use the cover font as a display font, for chapter
    openers and such. Besides there are plenty of fonts that blur the line between
    text and display. Rules are made to be broken, or at least bent.\r\n\r\nSorry
    I'm crabby today I have a headache!"
  created: '2010-01-31 06:12:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK, I know everyone here thinks Tshichold is god but \"as a rule, book jackets
    belong in the waste paper basket, like empty cigarette packages.\"???? That's
    offensive on more levels than I care to enumerate.\r\n\r\nIn fact I'd argue that
    it's much more common that the jacket is a work of design art and the interior
    is designed by some hack being paid by the word to typeset.\r\n\r\nThat kind of
    BS reminds me why I don't hang out here so much anymore."
  created: '2010-01-31 06:19:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>That kind of BS reminds me why I don't hang out here so much anymore.</cite>\r\n\r\nPatty,
    I didn\u2019t quote Tschichold because I\u2019d think he\u2019s god. Rather, because
    I found it interesting to see how much the times have changed, and how odd and
    funny his authoritative words sound today. I had assumed others would feel the
    same, without explicitly elaborating on the ridiculousness. I, for my part, hardly
    ever take off the dust jackets of my books. In fact, I only did that a very few
    times: the jacket designs were as ugly as sin, and hid a beautiful cover."
  created: '2010-01-31 09:50:23'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Patty \u2014 I, for one, have missed seeing you around here lately. Sorry
    to hear about the headache.\r\n\r\n<cite> > God I hate the idea that the cover
    is a sales tool. </cite>\r\n\r\nHate it. Love it. Either way, you have to admit
    that for most categories this is true these days. You\u2019re lucky to work in
    art books and cookbooks, two categories that tend to favor more interior-exterior
    continuity.\r\n\r\nWhoever said \u201CNever judge a book by its cover\u201D did
    not work in Sales & Marketing, for that is all they do. \r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 13:36:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "As Chip Kidd said: \"I cannot make you buy a book, but I can try to help
    make you pick it up\".*\r\n\r\n* http://www.esquire.com/the-side/qa/chipkidd061807\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 14:14:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Florian I know you weren't quoting Tschichold out of blind reverence but
    he does get a lot of hero worship around here. I tend to be distrustful of anyone
    who makes proclamations like that. \r\n\r\nKent, yes, I do feel lucky to do the
    kinds of books I do. But I also do covers and interiors separately at times, as
    well as black plate translations, anything to pay the bills. And attempt a certain
    continuity btw covers & interiors, whenever possible.\r\n\r\nWhen I worked at
    Simon & Schuster they called the art department 'creative services' which made
    us sound like all we did was make photostats or design ads. Used to drive me nuts."
  created: '2010-01-31 18:21:10'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > whenever possible.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s the key. \r\n\r\nAnd
    it is usually more practical for a cover designer to make efforts toward reflecting
    an interior than the other way around. As you aptly point out above, the fool\u2019s
    errand of an interior scheme chasing a cover design-in-progress is fraught with
    pitfalls."
  created: '2010-01-31 18:35:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Well, I will argue tho, that the bulk of an interior can be done without
    the display font for the CTs and the frontmatter. I just had to do that, throwing
    up a Hail Mary that the cover fonts wouldn't clash horribly with the font I chose
    for the text (in this case Arno, which plays well with others). I got lucky this
    time and it's all meshing well. \r\n\r\nI think trying to design a cover to conform
    to an interior is not likely to work most of the time given that the marketing
    wizards will need to have their voices heard. (One of the pleasures of designing
    interiors is NOT having to deal with the visionary powerhouses in the sales department)."
  created: '2010-01-31 21:50:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "As I design both the interiors and covers for all the books I do, I try to
    match the cover to the interior as much as possible in all of them. This can mean
    I use the same typefaces, but not necessarily so. However, I cannot see the cover
    of a book separate from its interior, which is why I pretty much never like books
    that have a cover that wasn't designed by the person who did the interior. They
    are usually completely disconnected from each other. It often looks like someone
    grabbed an interior and folded some random cover around it. The design nearly
    always fails this way. As I mentioned earlier, the cover doesn't necessarily need
    the same typefaces, but I usually try to apply similar type, color and grid treatments
    as applied in the interior, so you really pull both of them together.\r\n\r\nLuckily
    I have been working for a publisher that is small to medium in size, so I do not
    have to deal with marketing departments. They usually give me complete freedom."
  created: '2010-01-31 23:59:33'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "And how about the author designing the cover himself? That's what did Orhan
    Pamuk with his latest novel, The museum of innocence - he took a couple of pics
    and joined them with Photoshop, then sent them to the publisher saying \"this
    is what I choose\".\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/museum-of-innocence_5638.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-02 07:59:31'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>And how about the author designing the cover himself?</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the specific example you gave, I'd say the outcome is quite acceptable. But I
    suspect that it will end up very ugly in nine out of ten cases, so I say no. :)"
  created: '2010-02-02 18:32:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More like 999 out of 1000. Especially when it comes to the\r\ntypography
    (which is way harder than choosing photos).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 19:37:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pamuk_4401.png]\r\n\r\nI wonder how much
    of the finished artwork Pamuk did.\r\nI recall once \"designing\" a cover for
    an author who chose her own photo for it.\r\nThere are alternate versions of the
    cover online (not just paperback and hardcover, I presume). \r\nI like the Danubia
    typeface, although the weight change for \"the\" and \"of\" seems odd."
  created: '2010-02-02 20:29:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Orhan Pamuk is a very special case. He was devoted to painting throughout
    his childhood, and then went to architecture school. In his interview with Charlie
    Rose, he said he views his writing as very painterly, and teaches a course at
    Columbia about the connections between visual arts and literature. He is a member
    of Columbia U.'s art department, as well as middle eastern literature.\r\n\r\nPatty,
    I think everyone who writes about Tschichold these days\u2014and there is a lot
    of recent stuff\u2014acknowledges that he was maddeningly dogmatic. If that were
    the only thing about him, he would be totally ignorable. But he was also a fantastic
    typographer, both in his modernist and traditionalist phases. It is just amazing
    how he was able to change his opinions 180 degrees and be dogmatic and brilliant
    in both phases!\r\n\r\nI always find his views interesting and thought provoking
    even when he is full of shit, as in the line about throwing away dust jackets.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    a few of us here can match Tschichold for dogmatism, but not many, so I think
    that's a bit of a bum rap. \r\n\r\nIf we only could match him in brilliance! \r\n "
  created: '2010-02-02 20:36:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I've had authors \"design\" their covers for me. I've also gotten full mockups
    of entire books from them. Believe me, this rarely leads anywhere good. Luckily
    *most* of them fully acknowledge that they are not designers. \r\n\r\nThis is
    why we have editors, to run interference btw the authors and designers. I have
    an author right now who keeps misusing the word dingbat, making him sound... like
    a dingbat. He is full of opinions on the design, but I did amuse him by using
    the font Arno. The book is about Michelangelo's years in Florence.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is going on with the Pamuk cover on the right? Awful!\r\n\r\nRe Tschichold I have
    actually not read much except where quoted here. All I really know is he advocated
    the golden ratio for page layout which doesn't make sense to me visually. I'm
    an autodidact about type, most of what I know comes from doing, and from TYPOPHILE!!!"
  created: '2010-02-03 17:55:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> All I really know is he advocated the golden ratio\r\n\r\nThat stuff is
    certainly highly over-rated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:25:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm no expert on Tschichold, but I don't think he only supported the golden
    ratio, though he may have viewed that as one good option. Also in different phases
    I think he had radically different ideas. \r\n\r\nI have \"Jan Tschichold: A Life
    in Typography\", and I find his stuff always admirable, in radically different
    styles. \r\n\r\nI would like to take back my statement of Typophilers not being
    dogmatic like Tschichold. You're right, there are too many. "
  created: '2010-02-04 02:55:48'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "Although sometimes you may want to keep the internal header font the same
    as your cover font, using the same font for your title (usually) doesn't work.
    Although, there are exceptions to everything (sometimes a simple adjustment can
    vastly alter the look/feel of a typeface).\r\n\r\nIt's the whole \"place for everything/everything
    in it's place\" predicament."
  created: '2010-02-08 01:04:27'
date: '2010-01-28 20:52:59'
node_type: forum
title: Must book cover font and body text font match?

---
