---
author:
  name: leoboiko
  picture: 119073
body: "Hi.  I swear I\u2019m not trying to start any flames here :) It\u2019s just
  that I\u2019m not a type professional\u2014heck, I\u2019m probably not even a type
  <em>enthusiast</em> by the standards of this forum\u2014and I\u2019m having a hard
  time finding information on the copyright situation of famous classic fonts.\r\n\r\nAccording
  to Wikipedia, Futura was released on 1927 and Helvetica on 1957.  So their copyright
  should have expired already, right? I mean, I know <em>specific digitalizations</em>
  (such as, say, Bitstream\u2019s Futura or Adobe\u2019s Helvetica) are copyrighted,
  just like specific editions of public-domain books are copyrighted.  But shouldn\u2019t
  the fonts per se be PD by now? Is there anything that prevents me from, say, taking
  a printout of the original 1927 Futura, vectorize it in FontForge, and release it
  as a free Futura (other than my own utter inability)? If yes, what is it, specifically?
  As in, what (and whose) copyright application or patent number?\r\n\r\nAnd if they
  are in fact public domain, how come no one has released free Helveticas and Futuras
  to this day? Or they did, and I suck at searching?"
comments:
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Helvetica is definitely not public domain.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:30:24'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>Are Futura and Helvetica public domain?</cite>\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n\r\nsee
    also http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain2.pdf\r\n\r\nExample: Linotype
    ripped off Futura and sold it as \"Fotura\":\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/fotura.htm\r\n\r\nThe
    big foundries never cared about \"copyright\".\r\n\r\nWhy should you care?"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:42:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: The names are copyright and each foundry's digitisation is copyright. There
    are plenty of crap knock-offs out there but people are willing to pay for the
    better ones so they're not free.
  created: '2010-01-28 21:50:14'
- author:
    name: leoboiko
    picture: 119073
  body: "> The names are copyright\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s interesting.  Out of curiosity,
    do you know who own the trademarks (or whatever) for Futura and Helvetica these
    days?\r\n\r\n> There are plenty of crap knock-offs out there\r\n\r\nIs that so?
    I couldn\u2019t find any exact replicas, only things like Coolvetica and Beteckna
    which are ruined versions of, I mean, \u201Cinspired\u201D by the classics, but
    with lots of tiny little changes that alter the identity of the type.\r\n\r\nIs
    there any open-source fonts\u2014crap or not\u2014that at least <strong>attempt</strong>
    to reproduce Futura and Helvetica faithfully?"
  created: '2010-01-28 21:58:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The names are trademarked, not copyrighted. You can't copyright a name, but
    you can get trademark protection for it.
  created: '2010-01-28 22:08:16'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Example: Linotype ripped off Futura and sold it as \"Fotura\":</em>\r\n\r\nSeems
    like this came up another time, but Fotura originated at Alphabet Innovations,
    Phil Martin's film font company, around 1970. It's not a clone of Futura, although
    it is clearly based on it and acknowledges the fact (with a wink) in its name.
    While the caps are very close (maybe identical), the proportions of the lowercase
    are different in the extreme, with an x-height nearly as high as the caps. One
    may well call it a rip-off of Futura, but it's obviously not meant as a look-alike
    substitute.\r\n\r\nHow Fotura wound up at Linotype I don't know, but that's not
    where it originated."
  created: '2010-01-28 22:19:38'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I made my own version of Franklin Gothic, and named it Tee Franklin. There
    has been no problems from any big guys (Monotype, Linotype or Adobe). My design
    was in between Adobe and ITC versions, based on my samples of M. F. Benton, with
    added thin weights. In fact I offered Tee Franklin to Monotype/ITC, but they declined.
    \r\n\r\nI also made a new version of Kabel, but with that my design was very different
    from the original, so there was no real conflict.\r\n\r\nHistorically, during
    metal type, font foundries bought each others fonts just to copy their designs.
    I guess things have not changed that much from those times\u2026"
  created: '2010-01-28 22:31:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Tomi, that's very interesting and pertinent to a revival/reinterpretation
    project I might start. Watch this space.
  created: '2010-01-28 22:46:31'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "In the US, typeface designs aren't copyrightable, so sure, you can trace
    and redraw any font you like. It's not a good way to make friends, but many companies
    have done just that.\r\n\r\nIt's the name that has trademark protection, as was
    mentioned, but the design is considered to have an \"intrinsic utilitarian function
    for use in composing text.\" (Dingbat fonts would seem to be a different story.)\r\n\r\nThe
    workaround in the US is to call fonts software, but again, the shape of the letters
    isn't what's being protected, just the particular software that generates them.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-28 23:22:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "leoboiko:\r\n\r\n> do you know who own the trademarks for Futura\r\n\r\nThe
    trademark is dead. See here:\r\n\r\nwww.chillingeffects.de/temp2.jpg"
  created: '2010-01-29 14:28:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm reaching for the salt.
  created: '2010-01-29 14:48:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Helvetica and Futura are free for Mac OS users, although not all styles.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 23:06:57'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "Nimbus Sans is a free clone of Helvetica that comes with GhostScript, along
    with some other fonts mostly donated by URW++.\r\n\r\nI would love to find a free
    or licensable-for-my-use (online preview) version of Futura.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 23:24:53'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<strong>LuzSans</strong> is an anodyne rendition of Futura by a respectable
    outfit (the Hoefler Type Foundry); likewise known as <em>HP New Futura,</em> it
    is the corporate typeface of Hewlett-Packard.\r\n\r\n<dl><dt>LuzSans is available
    in TrueType format from the Canonical software repositories:</dt><dd>[[http://hpmini.archive.canonical.com/mie/dists/hardy-hpmini/universe/source/luzsans-ttf_1.tar.gz|luzsans-ttf_1.tar.gz]]</dd></dl>\r\n\r\nJust
    don't go pretending that it is Futura."
  created: '2010-01-30 15:47:50'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Apart from the fact if type designs are copyrightable or not (I think they
    are in Europe), copyright usually expires a certain period (usually 70 years or
    so) after the <em>author has died</em>, not after the material in question was
    released. So if you take that as an indication, Futura and Helvetica are not in
    the public domain. Especially not if you 'take a printout of the origin al 1927
    Futura', as you put it, and trace those, as obviously any original hand drawings
    or printouts have copyrights on them...
  created: '2010-01-30 17:08:59'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "But again, in the US those forms are not copyrightable, so tracing original
    1927 Futura drawings doesn't violate copyright because typefaces are not copyrightable
    in the US.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 18:38:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I have no idea if that is true. Perhaps you're right, I don't know. Original
    hand drawings are basically lettering or technical drawings, one would think those
    are copyrightable? Or does that suddenly not count because there are letters on
    them? That would be quite retarded.\r\n\r\nIf so, then yes, you could plagiarize
    (because let's be honest, even if it's legally allowed, you're still taking someone
    else's work) the material in the US. However, as the typefaces in question were
    designed in Germany and Switzerland, you'd possibly violate laws in those countries
    (and other European ones), as they are copyrighted there. So in any case, for
    that reason they are definitely not in the public domain (because then they need
    to be copyright free everywhere)."
  created: '2010-01-30 20:22:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Quincunx:\r\n\r\n> as the typefaces in question were designed in Germany
    and Switzerland, you'd possibly violate laws in those countries (and other European
    ones), as they are copyrighted there.\r\n\r\nForget the word \"copyright\" in
    connection with German fonts.\r\n\r\nExcept a few Nazi era fonts mentioned here\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/kunstwerk.pdf\r\n\r\nno
    other German fonts were ever granted copyright."
  created: '2010-01-30 21:20:42'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Uli: perhaps not <em>granted</em> copyright, but as you are surely aware,
    whenever you write, draw, paint, sketch, etc. something, you automatically <em>have</em>
    copyrights. Unless somekind of law explicitly states where this doesn't apply,
    you always have copyrights on whatever original work you make. At least in most
    European countries. Peraps not in the US, as they seem to do these kinds of things
    differently for some reason.\r\n\r\nAnd then there is the Berne Convention, under
    which every country that agrees to this has to respect the copyright laws of other
    signatory countries. I.e. the US has to respect copyrights on type designs from
    other countries, but not those designed inside its own borders. In other words,
    as far as I know, if a type design is copyrighted in a country that signed the
    Berne Convention, that copyright is valid in the US. But I'm sure someone has
    found a loophole in that.\r\n\r\nBut I think it is safe to say - unless I'm horribly
    mistaken - that Futura and Helvetica are <em>not</em> in the public domain, as
    that was the original purpose of this thread."
  created: '2010-01-30 22:41:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Quincunx:\r\n\r\n> perhaps not <cite>granted</cite> copyright\r\n\r\nThe
    Nazi Supreme Court (= Reichsgericht)\r\n\r\nsee http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reichsgericht\r\n\r\nwas
    a criminal organisation, whose judges adored the criminal Adolf Hitler.\r\n\r\nThis
    criminal organisation of German Supreme Court judges \"granted\", as a special
    Nazi privilege, \"art work copyright\" (= Kunsturheberrecht) to the font \"Stefan
    George\", although this poet\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan_george\r\n\r\nwho
    was offered presidency of the academy for the German arts by the mass murderer
    Joseph Goebbels, refused to collaborate with this killer.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    the criminal judges of the Reichsgericht, who admired the \"German\" font \"Stefan
    George\", granted \"copyright\" as a \"work of art\" to this font depicted on
    the first page of my documentation\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/kunstwerk.pdf\r\n\r\n\"Stefan
    George\" was the only font in the history of the German law that was ever declared
    a copyrightable work of art by a German Supreme Court.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 06:26:26'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Incidentally, this \"Stefan George\" font has been digitized a few years
    ago and is available at a Heidelberg website here:\r\n\r\nwww.textkritik.de/technik/stefan_george_schrift.htm"
  created: '2010-01-31 06:39:00'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "I'm not a lawyer, but \"public domain\" is simply intellectual property that
    isn't controlled by anyone. Since copyright doesn't apply to typeface designs
    in the US, I'm not sure the term \"public domain\" can be applied to them in any
    meaningful way in the US.\r\n\r\nAnd given the long and storied history of typeface
    cloning in this country, I don't think a font copyright in Europe means anything
    in the US. Speaking of Futura, there are a number Futura clones from the period
    and since. See Fotura, Spartan, Tempo, Twentieth Century, etc.\r\n\r\nWe have
    to distinguish here between what we believe should be right and what the law actually
    states, and again, and I don't know how else I can phrase this: US copyright law
    does not protect typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo, back to the original question. By all means
    consult a lawyer, but based on everything I've read, my understanding is that
    tracing the original Futura drawings, or indeed any typeface that catches your
    eye, is legal in the US.\r\n\r\nIt's a double-edged sword. Imagine being a one-person
    foundry and getting a legal notice from Megafont, Inc that they believe your typeface
    infringes their copyright, dragging you into an expensive lawsuit. In the same
    way that patent law has been perverted to stifle innovation by companies that
    exist only to hold and enforce patents, typeface copyright could be used to strongarm
    the little guys out of the business.\r\n\r\nHere's more:\r\n\r\nhttp://nwalsh.com/comp.fonts/FAQ/cf_14.htm#SEC40\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 07:44:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "maxgraphic:\r\n\r\n> Here's more:\r\n> http://nwalsh.com/comp.fonts/FAQ/cf_14.htm#SEC40\r\n\r\nThis
    Norman Walsh stuff is entirely out of date. For instance, he writes:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Members
    of ATypI agree to abide by a moral code that restricts plagiarism and other forms
    of depraved behavior (pertaining to typography).\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut it was Typophile
    Moderator Tiffany Wardle herself, who counted the votes, when the ATypI decided
    no longer to abide by this moral code that restricts plagiarism for the members
    of this <cite>\"International Type Forgers Association\"</cite>.\r\n \r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/atypi.htm"
  created: '2010-01-31 08:25:25'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I don't think a font copyright in Europe means anything in the US.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that would be quite odd. As I said, under the Berne Convention - which the US
    signed - copyrights of all signatory countries are valid in every signatory country.
    And I think both Futura and Helvetica's designs are still copyrighted in Germany
    and Switzerland. Then again, I guess the USA doesn't really care about that; I'm
    sure some scumbag lawyer found a loophole in this so some major American corporations
    can abuse it.\r\n\r\nAnd Uli, what has Nazi Germany got to do with it? As I already
    said, copyright <em>doesn't need to be granted or declared</em>, you automatically
    <em>have</em> it when you create an original work. Trademarks need to be registered,
    copyrights do not. And it's irrelevant if some Nazi font was copyrighted or not,
    because it doesn't change anything about the fact that every German type designer
    has copyrights on every type design he makes (the same goes for every type designer
    in a EU country, as far as I know).\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 23:30:54'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "Well, maybe someone can explain that, because if selling a Helvetica or Futura
    clone were lawsuit-worthy, we'd be seeing a lot of lawsuits.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 02:11:47'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Well, maybe someone can explain that, because if selling a Helvetica
    or Futura clone were lawsuit-worthy, we'd be seeing a lot of lawsuits.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    true. Either I don't understand what they agreed on in the Berne Convention, which
    is possible because I'm not a lawyer, or there is a loophole that they can use
    to sell Helvetica or Futura clones. :)"
  created: '2010-02-01 16:12:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Yeah, true. Either I don't understand what they agreed on in the Berne
    Convention\r\n\r\nIn the thread\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/64824\r\n(Knock
    off Fonts for Web Use?)\r\n\r\nI clarified that the USA was not a Berne Convention
    member formerly. I suggest that you read a book on copyright including its history
    to better understand these things.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 17:05:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I can recommend <em>The Reading Nation in the Romantic Period</em> by William
    St Clair.
  created: '2010-02-01 18:54:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Do you mean Chapter 16 ?\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2010-02-01 20:12:26'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "As John Hudson mentioned in the thread Uli cites, \"signatory nations to
    Berne Convention on copyright agree to extend to works of foreign origin the same
    protection that they grant to domestic works.\"\r\n\r\nSo it's not that the US
    has to enforce German law for German typefaces, it's that German typeface designs
    are protected by copyright in the US the same way domestic designs are. That is,
    not at all."
  created: '2010-02-01 21:03:35'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: Wait if you can't copyright typefaces then what exactly do EULAs do?
  created: '2010-02-02 05:06:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'A EULA is an agreement between you (the person forking over cash for a font)
    and the creator of that font. Not sure how that relates to the question of copyright? '
  created: '2010-02-02 05:18:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "sii:\r\n\r\n> <cite>A EULA is an agreement between you (the person forking
    over cash for a font) and the creator of that font. Not sure how that relates
    to the question of copyright?</cite>\r\n\r\nA font EULA is not a purchase agreement,
    but it is a copyight license agreement granting to the licensee (against payment
    of a stipulated license fee) the non-exclusive copyright usage right to use a
    given copyrighted font in a particular manner.\r\n\r\nHowever, if a country's
    copyright law does not provide for the copyright protection of fonts at all, then
    such font EULAs are null and void, because a foundry cannot grant to you copyright
    licenses to non-copyrighted fonts. Foundries which (by means of font EULAs) offer
    to you copyright licenses to non-copyrighted fonts commit the crime of fraud.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 06:09:15'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "I realize you don't accept that fonts are software, Uli, and I largely agree
    with you. But I don't know that it follows that font licenses are therefore null
    and void. They at least are binding to the licensor: if you buy a 5-device font
    license and install the font on fifty computers, the licensee has a pretty good
    case against you. You violated the agreement.\r\n\r\nWe all view this issue through
    our personal lenses, and for me the frustration is finding type I'd like to use
    on my website (one rendering device but many users), then reading through a license
    that seems to allow my use, and then contacting the vendor and being told either
    that my use is not allowable at all or only allowable for breathtaking stacks
    of cash.\r\n\r\nAt least fonts don't have DRM ... yet?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 07:35:07'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I clarified that the USA was not a Berne Convention member formerly.
    I suggest that you read a book on copyright including its history to better understand
    these things.</em>\r\n\r\nAcutally, the USA is a Berne Convention signatory country
    from 1989. They also signed UCC Geneva, UCC paris, TRIPS and WIPO-CT. Perhaps
    you're the one who must read some more?\r\n\r\n> <em>However, if a country's copyright
    law does not provide for the copyright protection of fonts at all, then such font
    EULAs are null and void</em>\r\n\r\nActually, nearly every EULA is a license to
    <strong>software</strong>, not a license to the typeface design itself. So the
    EULA is not void or null at all. That is, this goes for the USA; as typeface designs
    <em>are</em> subject to copyrights in most European countries."
  created: '2010-02-02 18:40:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Quincunx :\r\n\r\n> Acutally, the USA is a Berne Convention signatory country
    from 1989.\r\n\r\nHow clever you are!\r\n\r\nAnd now tell me the year, when Paul
    Renner designed Futura!"
  created: '2010-02-02 20:53:55'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>And now tell me the year, when Paul Renner designed Futura!</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    has nothing to do with the question if Futura is in the public domain?! \r\n\r\nAs
    it was designed in Germany, and copyrights apply to typeface there: it only enters
    into public domain usually like 70 years after the author died (the amount of
    years can differ per law/country). And Renner hasn't been dead for 70 years yet,
    but only for 50+ years, i.e. the copyrights are still on Futura.\r\n\r\nIf I am
    correct - and I think I am - I have no idea why knock-offs were produced in the
    US. Probably a loophole in the law, or perhaps they just didn't care about the
    copyrights?"
  created: '2010-02-02 22:28:36'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "Quicunx, I think you may have missed my response that explains why the Berne
    Convention likely doesn't protect foreign typefaces:\r\n\r\n<cite>As John Hudson
    mentioned in the thread Uli cites, \"signatory nations to Berne Convention on
    copyright agree to extend to works of foreign origin the same protection that
    they grant to domestic works.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>So it's not that the US has
    to enforce German law for German typefaces, it's that German typeface designs
    are protected by copyright in the US the same way domestic designs are. That is,
    not at all.</cite>"
  created: '2010-02-03 00:12:16'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>I think you may have missed my response that explains why the Berne
    Convention likely doesn't protect foreign typefaces</em>\r\n\r\nAh, it seems I
    did indeed miss your response! It seems John is right, and I misuderstood the
    Berne Convention. My apologies.\r\n\r\nSo in short, all typefaces (including Futura
    and Helvetica) are basically in the public domain in the USA, but not in the EU.
    If they are in the public domain in Brazil (where the thread starter comes from),
    I don't know."
  created: '2010-02-03 02:00:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>So in short, all typefaces (including Futura and Helvetica) are basically
    in the public domain in the USA, <strong>but not in the EU</strong></cite>\r\n\r\nGermany
    and Switzerland and the EU (European Union) are not the same!\r\n\r\nAnd what
    is more: The EU did not exist when Paul Renner designed Futura!\r\n\r\nFor Futura
    as a font by a German designer the legal situation is this:\r\n\r\nGermany has
    two laws:\r\n\r\n- Copyright law (no protection for fonts)\r\n- Design law (protection
    for fonts)\r\n\r\nThe German design law protects fonts for a short period, provided
    they are registered in the year of publication and provided the registration fee
    is paid for the period of protection.\r\n\r\nWhen Paul Renner designed the font
    Futura (circa in the year 1928), the period of protection for fonts by the German
    design law was a maximum period of 15 years. This means, that by the end of World
    War II, the font Futura was already in public domain.\r\n\r\nThe German design
    law protects all technical forms of fonts including the outline data, which are
    called in EULAs \"font software\". Since fonts are protectable by the German design
    law, protection of fonts by the German copyright law is practically impossible
    and was never confirmed by the German Supreme Court, because there is no need
    to protect a font by two different laws.\r\n\r\nThe Berne Convention, to which
    Germany is a signatory, relates to the copyright law, not to the design law. Therefore
    it does not make much sense to discuss the Berne Convention in the context of
    German fonts, e.g. in the context of the public domain font Futura.\r\n\r\nFor
    the public domain font Helvetica, which was designed by the Swiss designer Max
    Miedinger, the legal situation is similar."
  created: '2010-02-03 06:04:49'
- author:
    name: Acreo Aeneas
    picture: 119157
  body: "Apologies if I'm breaking the interesting but heated discussion here, but
    I would like to see some clear or semi-clear answer to the OP's question.\r\n\r\nParticularly,
    I'm interested since I would like to use Futura LT Light on a book cover for a
    book I'm currently writing and will eventually publish.  Would it be legal for
    me to use Futura LT Light in the cover?  Or will I have to revert to some clone
    or alternative font?\r\n\r\nAdditionally, because I already own a copy of each
    of the two fonts (and several \"strengths\" - whatever you call \"italic\", \"bold\",
    \"light\", etc), does that mean I can automatically use it in commercial works
    (including embedding).\r\n\r\nAgain, I've been lurking around for a few days and
    have tried my best to get a straight answer from various people and searches for
    weeks and have gotten nowhere.  Just my luck I found this topic."
  created: '2010-02-05 05:52:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Acreo Aeneas:\r\n\r\n> Would it be legal for me to use Futura LT Light?\r\n\r\nYou
    can easily find the answer for yourself:\r\n\r\nLT means Linotype:\r\n\r\n- Linotype
    never acquired the rights to Futura.\r\n- Would it be legal for Linotype to use
    Futura?\r\n\r\nWhat is legal for Linotype, is legal for you.\r\n\r\nIt is as simple
    as that."
  created: '2010-02-05 06:20:51'
- author:
    name: Acreo Aeneas
    picture: 119157
  body: ">LT means Linotype:\r\n>\r\n>- Linotype never acquired the rights to Futura.\r\n>-
    Would it be legal for Linotype to use Futura?\r\n>\r\n>What is legal for Linotype,
    is legal for you.\r\n>\r\n>It is as simple as that.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that
    LT stood for Linotype and that Linotype never acquired rights to Futura.\r\n\r\nI'm
    guessing it's gray-area legal?  My conscious says the answer to the second question
    is \"no\".  But then Linotype sells Futura and it's various weights.  So then
    the contradiction somehow makes it legal?\r\n\r\nIt sounds like: Futura LT is
    legal for Linotype and so it's legal for anyone who owns Futura LT type to use
    it in commercial works.  God, this is even more unclear.  I'll just use Cicle
    Semi instead."
  created: '2010-02-05 17:00:39'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Why would Linotype have to acquire rights for Futura, if typeface designs
    do not have copyright on them? It is not particularly moral for a company to snatch
    a design and make their own release, but this seems to be legal. However, font
    <em>software</em> is usually protected by copyright, so that would also apply
    to Linotype's version of Futura as well. So yes, if you have bought a license
    to use their software, you can use it commercially. Otherwise you can't use it
    at all.
  created: '2010-02-08 00:16:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Quincunx:\r\n\r\nIf I were in a mad house, I would repeat your echolalias:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/interstate.pdf"
  created: '2010-02-08 05:18:14'
- author:
    name: creamdonut
    picture: 119140
  body: "Uli:\r\n>>LT means Linotype:\r\n\r\n>>- Linotype never acquired the rights
    to Futura.\r\n>>- Would it be legal for Linotype to use Futura?\r\n\r\n>>What
    is legal for Linotype, is legal for you.\r\n\r\n>>It is as simple as that.\r\n\r\nUli,
    your response makes sense except for one small thing: Futura LT is NOT Futura.
    That is, it isn't the same type that was designed more than 70 years ago, but
    a version of it, design much later. Therefore, if they have rights to sell it,
    you don't have rights to use it by free will. As a specific type, Futura LT is
    subjectable to copyright as software. Another thing that I find really interesting
    in your judgement is the fact that you defent type is copyright-free, however
    people pay really big cash to get a font designed by Adobe or ITC. Why? Because
    they are specific variants, designed, and subjected to copyright. And even if
    not, Creative Commons definitely apply. Don't know the specific terms of USA law,
    but by what was said here, my conclusion is that a typeface designed and unaltered
    for more that 70 years since it's designers death is public domain. However, that
    does not seem to apply to digital typefaces, does it? Even more, digital typefaces
    ARE software. Specifically because software does not mean program. A word file
    is software, and abides by the terms of software copyright. Its encriptation is
    copyprotected, as well as it's content. You can go check it out, you'll see I
    don't lie. ;) But then again, I COULD be wrong."
  created: '2010-02-09 04:59:01'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "creamdonut:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Digital typefaces ARE software. Specifically because
    software does not mean program. A word file is software, and abides by the terms
    of software copyright.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe US Copyright Law does not use and does
    not define the term \"software\", but this law does use and does define the term
    \"computer program\". \r\n\r\nSo, how do you define the term \"software copyright\",
    which is not used and is not defined by the US Copyright Law?"
  created: '2010-02-09 06:57:53'
- author:
    name: creamdonut
    picture: 119140
  body: "If I interpret the law correctly, software = computer program. \"A \u201Ccomputer
    program\u201D is a set of statements or instructions to be used directly or indirectly
    in a computer in order to bring about a certain result.\" And what is a digital
    typeface if not a set of statements or instructions? EVERY file digitally generated
    is a set of statements or intructions! That is why every software is copyrighted!
    Read section 101 and 117 correctly."
  created: '2010-02-12 00:51:54'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@leoboiko\r\n\r\nThere's the previously mentioned LuzSans for Futura, and
    the beautiful Helvetiker for Helvetica. Keep in mind that the copy is never the
    same as the original. Although, Helvetiker does draw some slight inspiration from
    the Frutiger typeface, which I personally see as a minor improvement over Helvetica.\r\n\r\n[Hmm,
    stating I prefer something over Helvetica as a neutral typeface. Hopefully that's
    not going to get me a flame or two.]"
  created: '2010-02-13 21:54:10'
date: '2010-01-28 21:22:59'
node_type: forum
title: Are Futura and Helvetica public domain?

---
