---
author:
  name: murphy.md
  picture: 114291
body: I know that there are already a few posts in the forum on beginning calligraphy,
  but I have slightly more specific needs. I'd like to learn calligraphy, especially
  since at some point I'd also like to do a bit of type design, and I have already
  come across a number of books on [[http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=sr_st?keywords=calligraphy&rs=1000&page=1&rh=n%3A1000%2Ck%3Acalligraphy&sort=relevancerank|Amazon]]
  and elsewhere. The problem is that I'm not really sure if such books cater for left-handers,
  or if indeed it makes any difference at all. Any thoughts or specific recommendations?
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "Hi Michael. Left handed calligraphy can be a challenge, but you could also
    look at it as an opportunity in that coming from it with a slightly different
    slant (no pun intended), can also help distinguish your style. There are a number
    of great calligraphers who are left handed. Here is a link to a Yahoo group where
    a lot of calligraphers discuss various topics and you might get some good advice:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.calligraph.com/cyberscribes/"
  created: '2010-01-29 15:24:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First of all, know that traditional calligraphy hates lefties.\r\nI don't
    care what fancy defense any apologist comes up with.\r\n\r\nIf a leftie wants
    to produce the illusion of traditional calligraphy,\r\nhe has to write sideways*
    or hold the pen upside-down, or engage in\r\nsome other contortion; I guess you
    have to figure out which ruse is\r\nthe least awkward for you.\r\n\r\nIn terms
    of books, this one is good: \"Left-Handed Calligraphy\", V Studley\r\n\r\n* What
    Noordzij prescribes.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI recommend you personally try to invent
    special rules for lefties.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-29 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: Thanks for the comments. Maybe I can learn to write backwards. Ragged-left,
    perhaps?
  created: '2010-01-29 16:44:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "On the \"Handwriting repair\" PDF you can find here:\r\nhttp://briem.net/\r\nthere
    is a chapter dedicated to lefties."
  created: '2010-01-29 17:41:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are special pens available for left-handed calligraphy.\r\nNo different
    in principle than the special pens used by right-handers for copperplate script."
  created: '2010-01-29 18:08:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "This is not a harsh tone Hrant just thoughts based on your thoughts and my
    experience with people in a field that you are not a practitioner.\r\n\r\nWhy
    does it have to be a \"conspiracy of exclusion?\" Hate is a pretty ugly word Hrant.
    Struggle is a part of life. There are many lefties out there who do damn fine
    work and do not whine or think the field is unfair. Some of these people were
    giants in the movie and advertising industry. Every leftie I have ever encountered
    has intimated that discovery was the best part of learning the craft... not a
    long term burden!\r\n\r\nAs a rightie I often have to adapt, in fact I built my
    diversity by using tools that do not fit into the traditional mode of execution
    and expression.\r\n\r\nThere are a number of books out there Michael... figure
    out which one works best for you. Search left-handed calligraphy.\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-01-29 18:36:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No different in principle than the special pens used by right-handers
    for copperplate script.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, a bit different in construction,
    but the basic idea is to angle the edge of the nib, relative to the stem of the
    pen, differently than in a regular (right-hander) pen.\r\n\r\nI taught a calligraphy
    class to a group of general design students, and acquired left-handed calligraphy
    pens (Sheaffer, IIRC) for those that needed them, although some decided they were
    unnecessary. "
  created: '2010-01-29 18:48:40'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: Thanks for the further comments. At least I know that I shouldn't give up
    before I begin! As hrant and Michael say, I should try to make the left-handed-ness
    an advantage, not a disadvantage.
  created: '2010-01-29 18:54:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "\"Traditional calligraphy\" does not designate a person, or other feeling
    and thinking being. As such, to say that \"traditional calligraphy hates lefties\"
    is simply a figure of speech; it is not an imputation of hatred or bigotry to
    the calligraphic community. When people are unfair it is blameworthy, but that
    life is often unfair is just a fact.\r\n\r\nIt was just a short way of stating
    a simple fact: attempting to write traditional calligraphic styles with the left
    hand in normal writing orientation will be difficult and will tend to produce
    poor results. There are workarounds; after all, right-handed people do calligraphy
    in Hebrew (traditionally by writing sideways, as Hrant mentioned) and Arabic.\r\n\r\nIf
    one is making a master copy for reproduction, rather than an individual original,
    I suppose one could actually write the mirror reflection of what one intends to
    produce... perhaps using a mirror to see your result!"
  created: '2010-01-29 19:07:58'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: 'Look up John DeCollibus on Google or YouTube (start with his home page: [[http://www.beyondwordsscript.com/about.htm]]).  Lefties
    can do awesome calligraphy.'
  created: '2010-01-30 00:20:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The videos showing John DeCollibus writing are very instructive. Note that
    all the script styles that he writes are split nib, expansion stroke styles. I've
    long maintained, on Typophile and elsewhere, that these styles are the natural
    domain of lefties, since they avoid the problems inherent in the broad nib, translation
    stroke styles. Writing these styles, the lefty is at no disadvantage or awkwardness.\r\n\r\nPlus
    you get to listen to lots of baroque music, and how cool is that!"
  created: '2010-01-30 03:15:04'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Come to think of it, I don't know a single famous lefty in the entire history
    of Chinese calligraphy. On the other hand, the ability to write with both hands
    -- either separately or simultaneously (same text, of course, and normal, not
    mirrored) if one's really good -- has always been considered a high art in China,
    though I doubt any living CJK calligrapher is capable of simultaneous writing.\r\n\r\nDoes
    any one know if right-to-left scripts like Arabic are more friendly to lefties?
    Are there any famous left Arabic calligraphers?"
  created: '2010-01-30 07:00:30'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "No \"lefty\" has to ever be intimidated by anything. They do things differently.
    I like that.\r\n\r\nhenrypijames  - What history of Chinese calligraphy are you
    talking about? You are probably well informed to make such a claim but the calligraphers
    of the Tang Dynasty (the finest years of Chinese history for me) are not documented
    that well except for their work.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-01-30 07:20:25'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Actually, we now know a lot about the way Chinese calligraphy was performed
    even at the time of Wang Xizhi (303-361 BC, in Jin Dynasty, which the Chinese
    themselves -- including later generations like those in Tang -- regard as the
    grand epoch of calligraphy): How people used to sit, lay out the paper, hold the
    brush, and so on. Many of the things we know today were unknown -- or presumed
    in ways that have turned out to be wrong -- a few decades ago, but recent historical
    and archaeological research has brought them into light.\r\n\r\nTo be clear, I'm
    not a calligrapher myself -- not even an amateur. But the person in my family
    who taught me a bit of calligraphy when I was a child is a professor of Chinese
    calligraphy history. He's also not the only person with professional background
    I discuss those topics with from time to time."
  created: '2010-01-30 08:43:31'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Statistically, I'd say in (modern) Latin handwriting, the pen is moving left-to-right
    about twice as often as right-to-left (counting only on-paper time and disregarding
    vertical and near-vertical movement). Comparatively, LTR movement is at least
    four times of of RTL movement in (modern) Chinese, because the horizontal stroke
    (\"heng\"), which is the most frequent type of stroke, is always drawn left-to-right.
    In other words, Chinese has a much stronger (horizontal) directional bias than
    Latin.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know what the LTR to RTL movement ratio looks like in
    Arabic?"
  created: '2010-01-30 09:00:41'
- author:
    name: aric
    picture: 113195
  body: I'd guess that Chinese calligraphy might be easier for a lefty than Latin
    script calligraphy.  A key reason why lefties struggle with a broad-nibbed pen
    is that it's difficult to find an angle that's both natural and that allows the
    nib to be drawn across the paper as it's designed to be.  With Chinese calligraphy
    the tool of choice is a brush rather than a pen, which has a flexible rather than
    a rigid tip and deposits ink on paper in a very different way.  And if I'm not
    mistaken, the angle at which the brush is held is nearly vertical, which is just
    as easily done with the left hand as with the right.
  created: '2010-01-30 11:14:10'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I doubt any living CJK calligrapher is capable of simultaneous writing.</cite>\r\n\r\nAt
    a park at Chengdu, Sichuan Province, I saw a man writing on the walkway with two
    brushes simultaneously, one in each hand, using water instead of ink. The characters
    written by the left hand (I think) were mirrored, though. Unless it was the case
    that I happened upon the one street calligrapher in China who does that, it can't
    be that rare a practice, and perhaps there are even those who write normal un-mirrored
    characters simultaneously with both hands.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, Aric, you make good
    points about Chinese calligraphy being more amenable to lefties. I learned some
    Chinese calligraphy when I was young (a bit before Korean calligraphy, actually).
    I had already got used to writing with a pencil, held at an angle to the page
    with the fingers close together and the wrist resting on the paper for support,
    so it was difficult to transition to holding the brush vertically with enough
    space maintained in the inside of my hand to grasp an egg (I think that's how
    they taught it). This and the fact that it's a round brush means that there is
    no angle bias at all with Eastern brush calligraphy."
  created: '2010-01-30 11:44:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Make your southpaw your trademark instead of trying to adapt to the norm.
    Create something new! That\u2019s my advice."
  created: '2010-01-30 13:32:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting analyses for Chinese.\r\n\r\n> Does any one know if right-to-left
    scripts\r\n> like Arabic are more friendly to lefties?\r\n\r\nI think in theory
    that's true, but in practice that's not allowed to surface.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 15:28:18'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '@Jongseong: First of all, writing mirrored text simultaneously with both
    hands is easier -- by magnitudes -- than writing normal text (which is why I emphasized
    "normal, not mirrored"). Second of all, writing merely readable text simultaneously
    with both hands is again easier -- by magnitudes -- than produce something good
    enough to be considered "calligraphy". For it to be a real simultaneous calligraphy,
    the product of both hands need to be both as good as what the calligrapher would
    normally produce with his normal hand -- in fact, it should be unrecognizable
    which sheet is written with which hand. That is incredibly difficult.'
  created: '2010-01-30 18:47:58'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '@Hrant: Is there any society in which a right-to-left script is used and
    lefthand writing is generally tolerated?'
  created: '2010-01-30 19:02:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not just incredibly difficult; it's probably pretty much impossible
    unless you're inherently \"wired\" a certain way, which extremely few people are.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nLefthanded
    writing is tolerated fine in most cultures with RTL writing; my point is that
    <em>formal calligraphic instruction in any script</em> will tend to subvert lefthandedness.\r\n\r\nThe
    only way lefthanded calligraphy can truly flourish is to establish a distinct
    school that formally rejects the righthand school. A lefthander following a righthand-centric
    course will certainly learn much, but can never reach his full potential.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-30 19:13:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Individual Hebrew letters are traditionally written left to right, in the
    manner of a right hander primarily pulling the pen to the right and down. However,
    each new letter is put down on the line in the other order: starting on the right,
    then each new letter to the left of the previous letter. \r\n\r\nHence whatever
    special challenges a left-hander faces with Latin calligraphy will be similar
    in Hebrew.  "
  created: '2010-01-30 19:46:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A couple of points regarding right-to-left scripts:\r\n\r\nThe direction
    in which a script is <em>read</em> doesn't necessarily imply anything about the
    direction in which it is written. This is something one learns from watching Arabic
    calligraphers rotating the page and writing top-to-bottom.\r\n\r\nWriting direction
    is independent of pen angle, and it is the latter factor that determines the normative
    patterns of letters when they are written with contrasting stroke tools, especially
    translation stroke tools such as broad nibs or flat brushes. One can ignore those
    normative patterns, of course, but the result will be that the letters look weird
    to most readers. Normative contrast patterns are so basic to script identity that
    reversing them frequently gives the impression that one is attempting to make
    a pastiche of a different writing system, e.g. writing Latin letters \xE0 la Devanagari.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    my advice to a lefty would be to look at tools (brushes, split nibs, low contrast
    tools) that do not enforce a translation stroke pattern, and at styles of lettering
    within a writing system that favour left-handed execution."
  created: '2010-01-31 02:21:07'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Do all (or a majority of) Arabic calligraphers rotate the page and write top-to-bottom?
  created: '2010-01-31 04:05:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I believe it depends on the style being written.
  created: '2010-01-31 06:38:46'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: "I suppose calligraphy can have nothing to do with the way one normally writes.
    If you learn to draw characters at 90 degrees instead of 0, then there's probably
    no principle that says your characters should be any worse.\r\n\r\n@John Hudson:
    That's interesting John; I guess it would make sense actually. But are there any
    left-handers who write with LTR languages upside-down? Probably few, if any. I
    normally  rotate the page at about a 60 degree angle when I'm writing to avoid
    smudging, but I notice that John DeCollibus has more of a 90 degree angle when
    doing calligraphy.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I once had a teacher at school who thought
    that someone else had written my homework for me, because she couldn't believe
    a left-handed writer could write as neatly as I had."
  created: '2010-01-31 09:17:34'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "@Murphy: amazing how dumb some teachers can be, huh?\r\nBTW, I'm another
    60-degree-page-rotator..."
  created: '2010-01-31 09:35:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However, writing in any way that you can't read what you've written in realtime
    of course cannot be optimal. Forcing a leftie to write sideways or upside-down
    simply to exactly match what a rightie would produce is dysfunctional, and depressing.
    It's really no different to how leftie children were (and sometimes still are)
    physically forced to not use their left hand when doing anything.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    do read this:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/48843\r\nAnd check out the interesting
    trials that John produced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-31 15:38:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "latin, chinese, arabic or hebrew?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-02 13:23:35'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: I think I'll start with the Latin. Still looking for a good book. I would
    like to look <em>in</em> the book before buying, but living in Germany makes it
    quite difficult (good English book stores are hard to find where I live). My other
    thought was just to buy a standard calligraphy book with decent reviews from Amazon
    and see if I can work through it left-handed.
  created: '2010-02-02 16:48:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Hrant, I''ve been thinking about your comments in that other thread regarding
    writing ''naturally'' vs ''contortion''. If you look at the ways in which different
    writing systems are written around the world, I don''t think you can easily define
    what constitutes a ''natural'' way of writing: all writing is cultural. I think
    it is better to talk in terms of comfort and ergonomics. In which case, it is
    interesting to note that the common hand position of European writing, in which
    the wrist is flexed backwards is less comfortable over a long period of time than
    what we would think of as a rotated position in which the hand is in-line with
    the lower arm and the wrist is not flexed. As someone who suffers from rotator
    cuff mobility problems and pain, I''m very much aware that there are habitual
    positions that are very bad for the body and that should be avoided. But I think
    the range of comfortable positions for writing is greater than perhaps a culturally
    biased notion of what is ''natural'' might suggest.'
  created: '2010-02-02 21:13:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have to agree, and would even suggest that all writing is unnatural! The
    human body has not evolved to hold an implement to make marks on a surface. What
    I'm getting at is that what makes traditional calligraphy comfortable (or less
    uncomfortable) for righties also makes things commensurately more uncomfortable
    for lefties.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 23:34:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>The human body has not evolved to hold an implement to make marks
    on a surface.</em>\r\n\r\nOh, I beg to differ. Consider the precise motor skills
    that are necessary to move an arm -- not fingers, not hand, but the whole arm
    -- to produce accurate movements of just a couple of millimetres. It's as if the
    entire arm is a pantograph, translating the movement of major muscle groups into
    very small marks on a surface. Now consider that writing is one of the very few
    and by far the most common skill that requires such a capability.\r\n\r\n<em>What
    I'm getting at is that what makes traditional calligraphy comfortable (or less
    uncomfortable) for righties also makes things commensurately more uncomfortable
    for lefties.</em>\r\n\r\nAin't demographics a bugger!"
  created: '2010-02-03 03:59:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Consider the precise motor skills\r\n\r\n1) More than precision, I was
    speaking -as you were before- of ergonomics.\r\n2) Surely that inherent, primordial
    ability [partly] led to us writing the way we do, not the other way around.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 04:12:55'
- author:
    name: murphy.md
    picture: 114291
  body: Wow, we're getting pretty deep here. I've taken the plunge and bought [[http://www.amazon.com/Left-Handed-Calligraphy-Vance-Studley/dp/0486267024/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1265196231&sr=8-1|two]]
    [[http://www.amazon.com/Mastering-Copperplate-Calligraphy-Step-Manual/dp/0486409511/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1265196248&sr=1-1|books]].
    I'll go down to the shops this weekend and see if I can't get some supplies to
    start me off. I hope to post some actual calligraphy soon!
  created: '2010-02-03 11:25:00'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: If we are talking about ergonomics, plenty of things that are deeply ingrained
    in our cultures are anti-ergonomic. Conventional musical instruments are an obvious
    example. I guess we should leave behind the unnatural sounds created by physical
    instruments and explore digitally created soundscapes. ;-)
  created: '2010-02-03 14:01:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, it seems a chicken and egg sort of question, whether we write the
    way we do because of fine motor skills that are an \u2018inherent, primordial
    ability\u2019 or whether we developed such an ability as we practised mark making.
    An adaptationist could easily make a case that being able to e.g. paint animals
    well on the walls of a cave would lead to greater social status and hence to both
    better nutrition and to more opportunities for reproduction. I'm not much of an
    adaptationist, though, and while I wouldn't presume an \u2018inherent, primordial
    ability\u2019 I would be inclined to think that there are innate potentials or
    capabilities that might be developed into abilities or characteristics. And we
    see this with regard to fine motor skills even today: we have this capability,
    but it must be fostered and practised by each individual, usually at quite a young
    age, or else it doesn't develop. This is parallel to many other innate capabilities,
    which we probably all have but which we lose if we do not develop them. There
    are no tone-deaf people among speakers of tonal languages, because they all develop
    their capability to produce and recognise verbal tonality at a young age; whereas
    speakers of English generally have much poorer tone sensitivity unless they have
    studied music quite seriously. Depressingly, one can imagine all sorts of innate
    capabilities that we might possess, but which we have neglected and lost.\r\n\r\nEvolution
    is an imprecise process, in which mutations tend to be surplus to requirements
    (since mere survival is the only requirement): you need mutations that make it
    possible to survive in a sub-Saharan grassland, and you end up with Bach."
  created: '2010-02-03 18:03:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, good analysis.\r\n\r\nMichael, if you ever want to get deeper into
    calligraphy, I would recommend the best book on the topic that I own, Claude Mediavilla's
    monumental \"Calligraphie\" (which however is in French, with the long-promised
    English edition still to become reality).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:33:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The human body has not evolved to hold an implement to make marks on a surface.
    \r\n\r\nBe serious for a moment. Ready? Watch a master work, and then say that
    again. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 19:06:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Claude Mediavilla's monumental \"Calligraphie\" (which however
    is in French, with the long-promised English edition still to become reality).</em>\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nI
    have had the English edition for many years. It was published as <em>Calligraphy</em>
    by Scirpus Publications in Belgium in 1996, but doesn't seem to have been well
    distributed. It is available in the US from the calligraphy specialist bookseller
    John Neal:\r\nhttp://www.johnnealbooks.com/prod_detail_list/25/4\r\n\r\nThere
    are a couple of copies available for sale on ABE, but for more than double the
    retail price quoted by Neal, presumably reflecting the poor distribution and the
    impression that it must be out of print.\r\n\r\nI agree that it is the very best
    book on the subject."
  created: '2010-02-03 22:34:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have had the English edition for many years.\r\n\r\nOh. Sorry.\r\nI couldn't
    find it in a quick search, so I assumed it was still in the works.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 23:35:10'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ">The human body has not evolved to hold an implement to make marks on \r\n>a
    surface.\r\n\r\nIt didn't evolve to drive tractors either but it does. :o) Tractors
    were \"evolved\" to be driven by humans, as marks made on paper have evolved according
    to what the human body is capable of."
  created: '2010-02-04 01:30:05'
- author:
    name: nibsnknits
  body: 'I''m a left-handed calligrapher and with the exception of the ruling pen,
    I have not found it to be a problem at all.  In fact, with pointed pen it seems
    to be an advantage--I still use the oblique holder but some lefties do not.  And
    as others have said, the broad-edged nib needs to be cut at the opposite slant.  But
    the essence is this:  in calligraphy, the most important thing is seeing--i.e.
    line, slant, spacing, curve, negative space etc. --- and getting what your mind''s
    eye envisions onto the paper.  When you approach it that way it doesn''t matter
    which hand you write with.  It helps to make sure any teacher you work with is
    of similar mind;  I''ve run into a few "old school" types who don''t want to bother
    with me when they could be critiquing my work as they do anyone else''s.'
  created: '2010-02-06 08:04:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> in calligraphy, the most important thing is seeing\r\n\r\nI agree. But
    most of all I'd be curious where you think that puts the Noordzij recommendation*
    of writing vertically (such that you can't fluidly write <em>and</em> read).\r\n\r\n*
    Shared by Arabic to some extent.\r\n\r\n> I've run into a few \"old school\" types
    who don't want to bother with me\r\n\r\nWhy do you think that is?\r\n(You don't
    think they believe lefties are Evil, right?)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 15:28:53'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "<em>in calligraphy, the most important thing is seeing</em>\r\n\r\nI disagree.
    I think most (professional) calligraphers have a precise mental picture of what
    they want to draw, but their hands fail them in reproducing the lines from their
    imagination.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I believe most calligraphers are seeing to much:
    They tend to over-adjust their movement -- and often even their plan -- midway
    because seeing the partial picture (or even the current partial curve) makes them
    insecure about whether it's right. Maybe if they rely less on their eyes and more
    on the mental picture in their head -- go into a meditative trance, if you will,
    so as to tune down the non-stop visual feedback analysis that's messing with them,
    they would produce more fluent and natural results."
  created: '2010-02-06 16:51:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>But most of all I'd be curious where you think that puts the Noordzij
    recommendation* of writing vertically...</em>\r\n\r\nI think it would be useful
    to provide the Noordzij text to which you refer."
  created: '2010-02-06 18:21:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, sure - I just don't have a link.\r\n\r\nBasically he says that if a
    left-handed calligrapher wants to reproduce the traditional forms comfortably,
    he should turn the paper 90 degrees and write the letters on their sides, arranged
    vertically.\r\n\r\nMy point has always been that not being able to\r\nread what
    you're writing isn't \"comfortable\" at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 18:26:35'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: It seems to me that if you taught yourself to calligraph that way, you would
    learn to read sideways far sooner than you would begin to master any aspect of
    the writing. People generally don't have trouble recognizing a word at a time
    sideways. I wouldn't sit down and read a novel sideways, because it would slow
    my reading down to the speed of writing, but it should work fine <em>while</em>
    writing, because you write a word at a time and have to be somewhat conscious
    of the shapes on a stroke-by-stroke level anyway. But maybe I'm projecting my
    experiences as an ambigram specialist, wherein I do a lot of mental rotation.
  created: '2010-02-06 21:07:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you would learn to read sideways far sooner than\r\n> you would begin to
    master any aspect of the writing.\r\n\r\n1) The human vision system favors a horizontal
    arrangement far\r\nmore than vertical. AFAIR there have even been studies to show
    this.\r\n\r\n2) I might <em>possibly</em> agree when it comes to traditional\r\ncalligraphy,
    but that \"any\" there is certainly too much.\r\nLefties do write, after all!
    And I believe there are forms\r\nfor them to write that are both comfortable and
    attractive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 22:27:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Henry\r\n\r\nPure malarky!"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:11:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Michael, I was just waiting for that :) '
  created: '2010-02-07 01:29:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why do some \"old-timer\" calligraphy teachers brush off lefties?\r\n(I'm
    not saying they're right in doing so.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 02:25:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, I'm sure you agree that when \u2018reading\u2019 what you are in the
    process of writing one is not engaged in immersive reading. Indeed, insofar as
    one will most of the time be looking at partially formed words, one isn't really
    reading at all. My concern in such a situation would be whether it is easier to
    make spelling mistakes if one isn't looking at the text at a normal angle. I wonder?
    But the other thing to bear in mind is that we're not talking here about everyday
    writing but about calligraphy, i.e. writing as a kind of art, and a lot of practice
    goes into that. I doubt if the challenges imposed by having to rotate the page
    present major difficulties that could not be overcome with such practice.\r\n\r\nI
    think taken as you present it, Noordzij's statement is simply fact. He's not saying
    that this is an ideal way in which to write, he's saying that if a lefty wants
    to produce the traditional forms of [Latin-script broad-nib] calligraphy the only
    comfortable way to do this in terms of the relationship of hand and pen to the
    page is to rotate the page. Certainly, it is a suggestion far more sensitive to
    the ergonomics of left-handed writing than the kind of contortions to which I
    regularly see lefties reduced, even if in some of those positions the page is
    better oriented for reading."
  created: '2010-02-07 03:49:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can see that \"reading\" could be misleading in the context of\r\nme saying
    it on Typophile. :-)  You could call it \"recognizing\",\r\nand something that's
    rotated 90 degrees is essentially not the\r\nsame thing, not as easy to recognize,
    not \"natural\".\r\n\r\n> Noordzij's statement is simply fact.\r\n\r\nOnly if
    you use a very narrow meaning for \"comfortable\".\r\nSeparating the creation
    of text from its use is misleading.\r\n\r\nNoordzij's stance only makes sense
    for <em>blind</em> lefties.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 04:46:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, as I wrote, I don't think Noordzij is suggesting that writing with
    a rotated page is in any sense optimal, even in terms of comfort. He's saying
    that this is the most comfortable way, given both the constraints and the options,
    for a lefty to create these particular forms of letters. He's not saying it is
    some kind of perfection of comfort, but that it will be easier, less tiring and
    more egnomically sound to do it this way than to do it in another way.\r\n\r\n<em>Separating
    the creation of text from its use is misleading.</em>\r\n\r\nI think stating that
    as some kind of general rule is misleading. There are lots of different kinds
    of text in and on lots of different kinds of media. Arguably, the very constraints
    imposed by the broad-nib translation stroke make it less important for the text
    to be angled relative to the writer in a particular way, because the writing tool
    itself will largely control the stroke contrast. Being able to see letters as
    they will be read becomes more important in outline-drawn letters, when one cannot
    rely on the tool for such control.\r\n\r\nAgain, remember that we're not talking
    about everyday handwriting; we're probably not even talking about something like
    professional scribal text creation of the kind that doesn't really exist anymore
    outside of a couple of Urdu newspaper publishers."
  created: '2010-02-07 06:48:18'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You are welcome William!\r\n\r\nI tire of theorists analyzing what I and
    others do.\r\n\r\n@ Hrant My first student was a leftie. I took her on more as
    a learning experience; it taught me that traditional approaches to my art are
    better left to the theorists. I cant my paper, in one style I work totally perpendicular
    to the paper, other times I work upside down, I both push and pull strokes, I
    hold my pen incorrectly etc. When I taught I always heard \"You cannot do that,\"
    to which I replied, I do whatever it takes to get it done! One must adapt.\r\n\r\nAdaptation
    is integral and essential to the craft. In is not an affliction to lefties only...
    it is necessary to \"survival.\"\r\n\r\n@ Henry\r\n\r\nTo me lettering is like
    chess. The first stroke one lays down essentially determines all that follows.\r\n\r\n\"They
    tend to over-adjust their movement -- and often even their plan\"     (and you
    know this how?)\r\n\r\nI do words, not letters. The letter knowledge is stored
    deep within, it is a subconscious guide, the execution is spontaneous based on
    THAT knowledge and the \"landscape\" that determines the \"fit/execution.\"\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2010-02-07 14:27:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, something I should have brought up earlier:\r\nBut why does Noordzij
    (and others) worry so much about reproducing\r\nthe traditional rightie forms?
    Instead of promoting a more clever\r\nway of making lefties uncomfortable (in
    the broad sense) he should\r\nbe thinking of how to make them equals. This actually
    interestingly\r\nparallels the relationship of black and white in letterforms,
    where\r\nI maintain chirography can <em>want</em> to treat the white equally,
    but in\r\nthe end simply cannot.\r\n\r\n> we're not talking about everyday handwriting\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    I -and we- have to admit that having to read one's\r\ncalligraphy/writing isn't
    nearly as relevant as it used to be.\r\n\r\nMichael: I'm actually in line with
    much of what you say, but I do\r\nsee the need to discuss why <em>some</em> calligraphy
    teachers dismiss lefties.\r\n\r\n> One must adapt.\r\n\r\nBravo. Now, what have
    <em>we</em> done to adapt to <em>lefties</em>?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:37:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ Hrant\r\n\r\n\"why some calligraphy teachers dismiss lefties\"\r\n\r\nThey
    are scared shitless. I taught my first student from underneath a clear glass table
    because I could not watch the letters as she made them... her hand covered them.
    I adapted... to her adaptations.\r\n\r\n\"I maintain chirography can want to treat
    the white equally, but in\r\nthe end simply cannot.\"\r\n\r\nBy calligraphy's
    very nature one is \"laying black on a white surface.\" One must always strive
    to treat the white equally, even use it to their advantage. You seem to be more
    obsessed with the forms themselves, if that be the case I have no solution for
    you. I adore traditional forms even when they are adapted to abstract. I am playing
    nice now Hrant. Traditional forms are what they are, Arrighi did the same thing
    I do. Had the same intentions. Used the same tools, basically. Was concerned with
    the same black/white interplay that I am.\r\n\r\nJokingly Michael says... if you
    want to take calligraphy to task beat up on the blackletter guys! No respect for
    white :-) And yet weren't they playing off the white, or using it as a foil?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 20:24:55'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "After about ten years of practice I realized that white played as an important
    role as the \"ink\" did. It will not change my take on those forms. Only their
    relationship in a line of words.\r\n\r\nHere ya go. When I look at my house I
    see strong horizontal lines of say writing (the siding) broken by a secondary
    rhythm (large apertures, windows). It is to me a \"figurative\" use of black and
    white. I don't see every board (letter/word) I see texture and design.\r\n\r\nTo
    me letters are architecture, and tradition provides, for me at least, stability.
    The guys who put it up were lefties and just held their hammers at a different
    angle. :-)"
  created: '2010-02-07 20:40:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>But why does Noordzij (and others) worry so much about reproducing
    the traditional rightie forms?</em>\r\n\r\nPresumably because they are the letters
    of our alphabet.\r\n\r\nDo you remember my scans of Latin letters written with
    rotated and reversed pen angles in an earlier thread? Not only do they look freakish,
    some shapes simply don't work because they are predicated on a particular angle.
    The shapes of letters are not abstract concepts or even skeletons to which arbitrary
    patterns of stroke weight and contrast can be applied. They are cultural artefacts
    that evolved through writing with particular tools, and their normative shapes
    reflect those tools and the dominant writing practices of the time in which they
    evolved."
  created: '2010-02-07 21:56:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "John\r\n\r\nYou are truly what I would like to be when I grow up :-) Informed,
    persuasive and eloquent."
  created: '2010-02-07 23:37:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they are the letters of our alphabet.\r\n\r\nThat's giving one particular
    rendering\r\nof the alphabet way too much credit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 01:04:00'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: 'LOL Hrant. '
  created: '2010-02-08 01:23:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, consider: most of the letters we read, write, typeset, etc. are lowercase
    letters. What are these? Where did they come from? As it happens, we have a huge
    wealth of palaeographic evidence that documents the development and evolution
    of these letters during the mediaeval period, i.e. a record of how these letters
    came to have the normative <em>shapes</em> that they have. And that evidence is
    pretty much entirely of minuscule letters written with a broad-nib at a fairly
    consistent angle. This is the crucible in which the shapes of our letters were
    formed, and if the tool had been different or the angle had been different, we
    would reasonably expect those shapes to be different. Like it or not, this does
    put constraints on how these letters can be written with that tool, and even some
    constraints on how they can be written with other tools, although changing tools
    always introduces new freedoms as well as new constraints.\r\n\r\nNow, why would
    a lefty want to go to the trouble of adapting to these constraints so as to be
    able to write these letters? I suppose there are individual answers to that, but
    it seems to me that most people who want to take up calligraphy, regardless of
    their handedness, do so because they have seen and been inspired by works of calligraphy.
    Since calligraphy, in every scribal culture I can think of, is a deeply traditional
    craft, mastering historical exemplars is one of the things that is both expected
    and, I am sure, one of the things people want to do when they sign up for calligraphy
    courses.\r\n\r\nConversely, if one wants to invent new ways of writing, without
    learning to master traditional styles, one might as well just stay at home and
    start playing with tools and media. Don't go to a teacher if you're not interested
    in the thing that the teacher is able to teach you."
  created: '2010-02-08 05:35:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me calligraphy is now art, which means it's about self-\r\nexpression,
    not emulation; which means lefties have to rebel.\r\n\r\n> Don't go to a teacher
    if you're not interested in\r\n> the thing that the teacher is able to teach you.\r\n\r\nBut
    sometimes he will teach you something in spite of himself!\r\nEverybody has something
    to teach anybody, but any student\r\nnecessarily has to filter and repurpose what
    the teacher says.\r\n\r\nWhen I took that calligraphy class I was smiling and
    learning\r\nthe whole time. But I wasn't smiling about or learning what\r\nthe
    teacher thought I was (which, if he's an ideal teacher, he\r\nwouldn't mind at
    all).\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, Michael, this isn't the ideal place to do this, but
    I've\r\nlong wanted to get an expert third-party opinion on this\r\nsmall piece
    I did at the end that class:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/222343485/\r\n\r\nThis
    might go without saying, but: brutal honesty preferred.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 05:58:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>To me calligraphy is now art, which means it's about self-expression...</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you've always been wrong about that. Self-expression is one particular purpose
    of some art; it's also a fairly recent, romantic view of art, which cannot explain
    most of the art that has been made in most of the world throughout most of human
    history. Art expresses many things, and many of these, e.g. nature, culture, are
    very much bigger than the self.\r\n\r\nAn art that only expresses the self, frankly,
    isn't up to much. I've been trying to find the passage in one of Bringhurst's
    essay where he says something to this effect, but perhaps his conclusion is all
    that needs to be stated: art can express the world. He and I happen to live in
    a place where art of the aboriginal inhabitants demonstrates this in particularly
    powerful ways. But a walk around any museum in the world will quickly convince
    you that art is expressing more than the paltry self of the artist."
  created: '2010-02-08 06:00:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I concede that art doesn't only express, and there is expression beyond art.\r\nAnd
    it's certainly true that any expression goes beyond the self. In fact I've\r\noften
    said that there is no pure art (or pure anything).\r\n\r\nMy wording was sloppy/rushed.
    Basically I guess what I was getting at\r\nis that a leftie who is mainly interested
    in following in the footsteps of\r\nrighties is a largely boring an irrelevant
    person.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 06:06:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Whoa, in light of what John just said and what you have asked I am hamstrung...
    well maybe not. John hit it on the head. Edward Johnston said letters must reflect
    their times.\r\n\r\nHrant said...To me calligraphy is now art,\r\n\r\nIn a sense
    you are right. Today it is self indulgent and ill informed, in a lot of cases,
    and for the most part reminiscent of post pubescent rebellion. To be quite honest,
    it is an affront to the black and white interplay that you and I dance around.\r\n\r\nAs
    to your example Hrant, it is an admirable representation for a new student. I
    am not going to nit pick because I see it for what it is, an valiant effort. Could
    it become a typeface... sure, if you made some adjustments. Is it good calligraphy...
    it is certainly a great start. However, as a nun, I would have rapped your knuckles
    with a ruler for the flourish on Verona... Just kidding Hrant :-)"
  created: '2010-02-08 06:30:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Why would effort EVER be boring or irrelevant?
  created: '2010-02-08 06:38:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: And where in the hell did Henry go to... I have some issues with him  :-)
  created: '2010-02-08 06:48:44'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: 'Yeah, I''ve suddenly become rather busy these few day. But to briefly answer
    your question: As a non-calligrapher myself (but with some basic training during
    my childhood, as stated before), my views are based on conversations with professional
    calligraphers I know (there are some in my family, and I know some friends of
    theirs, too). '
  created: '2010-02-08 19:10:10'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Once again a theorist with friends who dabble. No better research than that
    :-)
  created: '2010-02-08 21:34:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I certainly agree that the onus of marking real progress, of\r\nbreaking
    from the rote of precedent, is on the expert practitioners...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 21:49:55'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Now Hrant... I cherish the sarcasm, but did you read my comment on your flourish?
    Are you left handed? Seriously, who did you study with?
  created: '2010-02-08 22:30:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I read those comments. I just can't see any difference in the results; as
    much I like theory, I have a strong practical streak too. I'm right-handed. Reuben\r\nAllen
    was my instructor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 01:37:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I am not familiar with him but he definitely imparted some visual wisdom
    to you. \r\n\r\nAny difference from what? What theory are you speaking of?"
  created: '2010-02-09 02:00:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I mean a difference between minding the white and not.\r\nAt least not enough
    of a difference. Or maybe I didn't\r\nget what you were talking about.\r\n\r\nhttp://netra.glendale.edu/cse/instructors/allen.html\r\nBTW,
    do you like Maury Nimoy's stuff?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 02:06:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait a second - I just figured out when you meant! Sorry.\r\n\r\nThe flourish:
    interestingly, I remember Reuben didn't approve either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 02:08:15'
date: '2010-01-29 13:40:13'
title: Beginner's calligraphy; and am I hampered by being a lefty?

---
