---
author:
  name: Ray Larabie
  picture: 129961
body: Does anyone have a list of commonly colliding accents they'd be willing to share?
  I'm mainly looking for Latin 1,2,3,4.
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'On a related note, is it better to kern and prevent collisions or just let
    them occur? My impression is that accent collisions are rare occurrences, and
    because many fonts do not kern to prevent them, users would be more disturbed
    by a big gap than by a crash. '
  created: '2010-01-31 05:55:36'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "The type and frequency of accent collisions depends heavily on the language
    used. Native American languages have some orthographic practices that cause thorny
    problems in this area, like the use of multiple accented vowels in sequence, surprising
    letter combinations, or unusual sequences of diacritics. Consider examples like
    \xED\xEC, \xED\xEB, f\xEC, \u0119j, f\u0161, and f\u0101 which are not sequences
    that occur typically in European languages. How much of this should a font designer
    reasonably be expected to prepare for in advance? It is however not that much
    trouble to automatically generate a large pile of text with potentially problematic
    combinations and then eyeball for the worst ones."
  created: '2010-01-31 11:37:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>On a related note, is it better to kern and prevent collisions or just
    let them occur? </cite>\r\n\r\nThink of type as an artifact of Guttenberg's promotion
    of the printing press rather than the photocopier. On that model, it is better
    to design ligatures to solve crashing problems that would be avoided by the skilled
    scribe.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI don't know how much the font designer is responsible,
    esp. for Native American language combinations. To add to the list above, Kiowa
    uses macrons above and below vowels. The combination i+macronbelow, f, i+macron
    does occur. Of course, the editor wants the word in italic. \"Crash\" isn't strong
    enough to describe such a mess. I know this the usual way; I had to set it. The
    solution was to draw several f-ligatures to work with the various vowels. I'd
    say the designer can't anticipate all such occurrences; what they can do is to
    have a EULA that permits the compositor to go into the font and do the needed
    work."
  created: '2010-01-31 12:53:35'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '@Typodermic: I would maybe start looking at some vietnamese text.'
  created: '2010-01-31 13:44:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Charles: <em>On that model, it is better to design ligatures to solve crashing
    problems that would be avoided by the skilled scribe.</em>\r\n\r\nBetter yet,
    use contextual variants to dynamically create ligated or otherwise adjusted glyph
    sequences that resolve collision problems. This is more flexible than creating
    actual ligature glyphs, and enables you to hit a wider range of potentially problematic
    sequences with a smaller number of glyphs."
  created: '2010-01-31 20:58:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Better yet, use contextual variants to dynamically create ligated or
    otherwise adjusted glyph sequences that resolve collision problems.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    is what I did in the case above. As you say, a slightly fewer numbers of glyphs
    to create. For the Kiowa, I used several variant f's rather than ligatures. As
    I remember, there one \"f\" for use with an i+macronbelow before, one for an i+macron
    after, one for any other vowel with macron or grave after, one for the i+macronbelow
    with a vowel+macron or grave after, and a final one for the specific sequence
    mentioned above.\r\n\r\nWhether to use liga or calt depends on what is involved,
    and the solution. There are a number of European languages where an f followed
    by certain accented vowel are problems. Depending on the font, sometimes I make
    up a ligature, sometimes switch to a different f via a calt feature. Sometimes
    I use both, a ligature for the i and only a different f for other vowels. \r\n\r\nYMMV,
    but my point is that much of this is only possible by the compositor, who has
    a manuscript in from of him/her. To anticipate all problems just isn't possible
    -- I believe even Ross Mills wonderful new font doesn't cover Kiowa."
  created: '2010-01-31 22:30:40'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@riccard0 I'm mainly looking for Latin 1,2,3,4 and focusing on Albanian,
    Catalan, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, Esperanto, Estonian, Finnish, French,
    German, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian,
    Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish & Welsh. I'll research these
    myself. It's difficult because no search engines partial word searches. I can
    search for T\xEC and it shows me the Vietnamese word T\xEC but no words in other
    languages containing T\xEC. So I need to find word lists for all these languages,
    throw it all together in a big text file and search."
  created: '2010-02-01 01:48:37'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I put together a 6MB text file containing newspapers and Wikipedia articles
    from European languages and a few others I had listed above. I also Googled each
    pair just to see what came up. I assumed FPKTVWYft are the only letters at risk
    for accent collision. Lowercase t is an unlikely risk but I've made some strange
    lowercase tees before. In small cap fonts you might want to check more A accent
    pairs.\r\n\r\nI don't think any capital accents are collision risks.\r\n\r\n\u0107i
    \xE9\xEE f\u0101 f\u0103 f\xE3 f\xE8 f\xEB f\u0113 f\xEC f\xEE \xEE\xE8 \xEEt
    \xED\u010D \xED\u0148 \xED\u0159 \xED\u0161 \xED\u017E \u0161i \u0161\u012B \u0161t
    t\u0103 t\xE3 \xFA\u0159 \u017E\u012B F\u0101 F\u0103 F\xE3 F\xE8 F\xEB F\u0113
    F\xEC F\xEE K\u0101 K\u012B K\u0159 K\u016B P\u0101 P\u0103 P\xE3 P\xE8 P\xEB
    P\u0113 P\u011B P\xEC P\xEE P\xEF P\u012B P\u0148 P\u0159 P\u016B P\u017E T\xE5
    T\u0101 T\u0103 T\xE3 T\xE8 T\xEB T\u0113 T\u0115 T\u011B T\u012B T\u0159 T\u0161
    T\u016B T\u017E V\u0101 V\u0103 V\xE3 V\xEB V\u0113 V\u011B V\xEE V\u012B V\u0161
    V\u017E W\xE5 W\u0101 W\xE8 Y\u0101 Y\xE3 Y\u016B\r\n\r\n'\xE0 '\xE8 '\xEC '\xF9
    \xE1' \xE9' \xED' \xF3' \u0151' \xFA' \u0171' \xFD' \u0144' \u017A'\xE3'\xE4'\xEB'\xEE'\xEF'\xF1'\xF5'\xF6'\xFC'\xFF'\u0101'\u0103'\u010D'\u0113'\u0115'\u011B'\u011F'\u0129'\u012B'\u012D'\u0135'\u0148'\u014F'\u0159'\u0161'\u0169'\u016B'\u016D'\u017E'\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Most
    Romanized Chinese & Japanese pairs are not included. (I included some which came
    up as popular place names or last names).\r\n<li>Vietnamese. I'll tackle that
    some other time.\r\n<li>Greek, Cyrillic etc. . . read the first post.\r\n<li>Pairs
    which are only used in one-off City/town names are not included except for a few
    big cities.\r\n<li>I included a few common Romanized Chinese name/place pairs
    but not all of them . . . there are so many of those.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThe whole
    point of this is to have a \"at the very least, check these pairs\" list. What
    to do about accent collisions is a different matter. I just want to have a reasonable,
    practical list that covers the majority of European languages which use Latin
    1,2,3,4. If anyone knows of any important pairs I've missed, please let me know."
  created: '2010-02-01 06:24:06'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I don't know what criteria you are using, but f\xE5 (F\xE5) and P\xE5 are
    very common words in Swedish and other Scandinavian languages, and the combinations
    K\xE5 and V\xE5 (as in K\xE5l and V\xE5r) also occur commonly. Are \xE4 and \xF6
    not a concern? Because f\xE4 and f\xF6 are very common combinations in Swedish,
    and they also occur commonly after K, P, T, V..."
  created: '2010-02-01 07:45:00'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I didn't think the ring would collide except maybe with the T. (I just noticed
    I left the W\xE5 in there). But I didn't include rings for the same reason I left
    out the circumflex & dotaccent. But yeah, I see what you mean, they'd definitely
    be in danger of being pierced by a serif. I'll add them to the list.\r\n\r\nF\xE4
    F\xE5 F\xF6 f\xE5 f\xE4 f\xF6 K\xE4 K\xE5 K\xF6 P\xE4 P\xE5 P\xF6 W\xE4 W\xF6
    V\xE5 V\xE4 V\xF6\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2010-02-01 08:28:51'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "... and T\xE4 T\xF6"
  created: '2010-02-01 08:50:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Forgive me for getting off-topic with Native American languages. I don't
    know the European languages all that well, but don't forget the italic -- does
    f or j or p ever follow i+ogonek?\r\n\r\nEtc. The general point is accent crash
    is something akin to kerning -- at some point, almost all pairs pop up."
  created: '2010-02-01 12:23:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<cite>Romanized Chinese</cite>\r\n\r\nTone marks are conveyed in H\xE0ny\u01D4
    Pinyin using the following glyphs:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n \u0101 \u0113 \u012B \u014D
    \u016B \u01D6\r\n \xE1 \xE9 \xED \xF3 \xFA \u01D8\r\n \u01CE \u011B \u01D0 \u01D2
    \u01D4 \u01DA \r\n \xE0 \xE8 \xEC \xF2 \xF9 \u01DC\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThe only
    letters from your collision list that could precede these are FPTWYft. Not all
    potential combinations exist in Pinyin, but I reckon most do."
  created: '2010-02-01 13:11:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Depending on the angle and width of your grave, in Italian there are also
    \"T\xE8\" and \"f\xE8\", \"f\xEC\" is rare but possible, while \"f\xE0\" exists
    only in misspellings."
  created: '2010-02-01 14:48:19'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Be sure to check out Romanian, which has combinations like \u0162\xE2 (\u0162\xE2n\u0163ar),
    T\xE2 (T\xE2mplare) and f\xE2 (f\xE2s\u0103)."
  created: '2010-02-01 16:16:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Most Romanized Chinese & Japanese pairs are not included</cite>\r\nMaybe
    you could include T\u014D, as in T\u014Dky\u014D.\r\n\r\nGerman: F\xF6/f\xF6,
    as in f\xF6hn.\r\n\r\nFrench, but maybe we're going too far: \xEFf, as in na\xEFf."
  created: '2010-02-01 16:39:28'
- author:
    name: George Tulloch
    picture: 112396
  body: "For Lithuanian you would need to allow for at least \u0105, \u012F, \u0173
    plus j. Not all quality fonts deal with these successfully, e.g. Adobe Caslon:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1a_3529.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-01 19:43:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adobe fonts, especially older ones, tend to be missing pairs that cannot
    be considered too exotic, even when a similar -and equally exotic- pair is present.
    For example IIRC Minion has \"Yp\" (like in Ypres) but not \"Yq\" (like in Yqem)
    which needs even more negative kerning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 20:38:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Harvey
  body: "Many indigenous languages in North America (particularly in the Athabaskan
    family) have quite exotic stacks of diacritics, and the ogonek is popular for
    indicating nasalized vowels.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/concat_3503.png]"
  created: '2010-02-01 21:29:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't mind the ogonek-jball \"ligature\".\r\nNonetheless, the aogonek is
    nasty in the Scotch Modern genre, the accent almost like a double-vision of the
    pothook serif.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 21:38:38'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Here's what I've got so far. I don't know if I should add all the circumflexes
    . . . I didn't think they'd be in as much collision danger. I guess it's useful
    to have a few in there to let me know that I need to design a better circumflex.\r\n\r\n\u0105j
    \u0107i \xE9\xEE f\xE2 f\u0101 f\u0103 f\xE3 f\xE5 f\xE4 f\xE8 f\xEB f\u0113 f\xEC
    f\xEE f\xF6 \xEE\xE8 \xEEt \xED\u010D \xED\u0148 \xED\u0159 \xED\u0161 \xED\u017E
    \xEFf \u012Fj \u0161i \u0161\u012B \u0161t t\u0103 t\xE3 \xFA\u0159 \u0173j \u017E\u012B
    F\xE4 F\xE5 F\u0101 F\u0103 F\xE3 F\xE8 F\xEB F\u0113 F\xEC F\xEE F\xF6 K\u0101
    K\xE4 K\xE5 K\u012B K\xF6 K\u0159 K\u016B P\xE4 P\xE5 P\u0101 P\u0103 P\xE3 P\xE8
    P\xEB P\u0113 P\u011B P\xEC P\xEE P\xEF P\u012B P\u0148 P\xF6 P\u0159 P\u016B
    P\u017E \u0162\xE2 T\xE2 T\xE4 T\xE5 T\u0101 T\u0103 T\xE3 T\xE8 T\xEB T\u0113
    T\u0115 T\u011B T\u012B T\xF6 T\u014D T\u0159 T\u0161 T\u016B T\u017E V\xE5 V\xE4
    V\u0101 V\u0103 V\xE3 V\xEB V\u0113 V\u011B V\xEE V\u012B V\xF6 V\u0161 V\u017E
    W\xE5 W\xE4 W\u0101 W\xE8 W\xF6 Y\u0101 Y\xE3 Y\u016B '\xE0 '\xE8 '\xEC '\xF9
    \xE1' \xE9' \xED' \xF3' \u0151' \xFA' \u0171' \xFD' \u0144' \u017A'\xE3'\xE4'\xEB'\xEE'\xEF'\xF1'\xF5'\xF6'\xFC'\xFF'\u0101'\u0103'\u010D'\u0113'\u0115'\u011B'\u011F'\u0129'\u012B'\u012D'\u0135'\u0148'\u014F'\u0159'\u0161'\u0169'\u016B'\u016D'\u017E'"
  created: '2010-02-02 01:07:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Nonetheless, the aogonek is nasty in the Scotch Modern genre, the
    accent almost like a double-vision of the pothook serif.</em>\r\n\r\nMy inclination
    would be to modify the exit stroke (\u2018pothook serif\u2019) on the a when adding
    an ogonek."
  created: '2010-02-02 01:28:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the aogonek is nasty in the Scotch Modern genre\r\n\r\nThere's no reason
    to slavishly perpetuate such bad design.\r\nIf the result is 1% less historically
    Scotch Modern but 100% better ahistorically (read: functionally) then it's almost
    certainly good design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 01:42:23'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Are there common collision problems with \u0127\u0111\u0141\u0142?"
  created: '2010-02-03 01:17:34'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Don't forget the Apostrophe followed by lowercase accented letters, specially
    if you're kerning stuff underneath it to start with (which I don't think is a
    great idea).\r\nAlso regarding the apostrophe in Minion Pro for example a collision
    occurs between the L and the e in words like, L'\xE9cole. Just saying that kerning
    pairs are not an island, they have to look good in their surrounding as well."
  created: '2010-02-03 02:00:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Good point Johnny. Also, you need to check the accents with all trailing punctuation
    -- esp. acute, dieresis and macron accents followed by both single and double
    quotes, parenright, the question mark, maybe the exclamation point, and bracketright.
    With an i, all the accents except grave and the above punctuation. Leading punctuation
    s/b checked against the grave & all the accented i's.
  created: '2010-02-03 02:35:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: '[tracking]'
  created: '2010-02-03 08:57:06'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I put the single straight quote in there because I use it as the master for
    all quote-like glyphs. Hmm question mark . . . true.
  created: '2010-02-03 09:08:23'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "An early 21st century solution to the ogonek clash might be to use wider
    tracking throughout the text. I haven\u2019t a clue how the early 20th century
    printers managed it, but most of what I\u2019ve seen in Athabaskan texts is actually
    pretty good.\r\n\r\nI agree that the Scotch Modern a-ogonek is a disaster. I\u2019ve
    seen examples where the ogonek was hung in the middle, which is antithetical to
    Eastern European typography, but can be acceptable for Athabaskan uses given careful
    design. Of course there are other occasions where they used a cedilla instead...\r\n\r\nAny
    font aiming to support the majority of European languages should also try to handle
    the Pinyin occurrences. The demand for such support will only be increasing with
    time, and seeing the good support for various European diacritics would lead most
    users to expect the Pinyin ones to work reasonably well too."
  created: '2010-02-05 06:16:52'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<cite>Any font ... should also try to handle the Pinyin occurrences. The
    demand for such support will only be increasing with time</cite>\r\n\r\nNote that
    H\xE0ny\u01D4 Pinyin with proper tone marks appears almost exclusively in pedagogical
    contexts (in particular, Chinese language learning and Sinology). Even in China
    proper Pinyin orthography has no everyday use (bar education). However, this fact
    does not nullify your thesis; demand for such support will surely increase, and
    any conscientious type designer would brook no collisions involving Pinyin diacritics."
  created: '2010-02-05 14:17:25'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "Omitting tones from romanized Chinese is not very different from leaving
    the accents off caps in French: a custom arising from the character-set limitations
    of typewriters (in the case of French) and 1-bit fonts.  A great deal of sinological
    work still doesn't bother with tones, but it is reasonable to hope that usage
    will increase as the number of fonts with Unicode <em>p\u012Bny\u012Bn</em> continues
    to grow (in 2008 <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html\">Thomas
    Phinney</a> reported they are included in Adobe Latin 4).  Sinology may be coming
    around: for example, in 2008 the University of Chicago press included tones in
    Sigrid Schmalzer's <a href=\"http://www.press.uchicago.edu/presssite/metadata.epl?mode=synopsis&bookkey=5780990#\">The
    People's Peking Man</a> -- where there is a noticeable difference in type color
    between pages with lots of <em>p\u012Bny\u012Bn</em> versus those without.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 16:36:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> arising from the character-set limitations\r\n\r\nI thought the main cause
    was limited vertical space (especially in metal typesetting).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 17:35:55'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Keyboard input limitations are also critical. One important reason you still
    usually find accents left off capital letters in French is that the French Azerty
    keyboard layout offers no way of inputting some key capital letters with accents
    like \xC9 and \xC7 other than alt+number short cuts."
  created: '2010-02-05 18:47:11'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I guess poor Aringacute would welcome the addition of the U-dieresis H\xE0ny\u01D4
    Pinyin characters, at least then it's not the only one standing out so much anymore
    :)"
  created: '2010-02-05 19:27:07'
- author:
    name: David W. Goodrich
  body: "> Keyboard input limitations are also critical.\r\n\r\nYes and no.  If one
    feels the need it is not so hard to simplify typing by telling MS Word to auto-correct
    \"Ha4nyu3 pi1nyi1n\" to \"H\xE0ny\u01D4 p\u012Bny\u012Bn\".  And if one isn't
    sure of a particular character's tone MS Word's Phonetic Guide can produce its
    <em>p\u012Bny\u012Bn</em> on the fly.  The various u-dieresis with tones are a
    particular pain, of course, but where there's a will ...\r\n\r\nDavid"
  created: '2010-02-06 01:50:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "You can use auto correction in MS Word to input accented capital letters,
    too. But people writing for email, internet forums, Facebook, or Twitter will
    not be using MS Word.\r\n\r\nI can't be convinced that marking tones for romanized
    Chinese will ever spread beyond scholarly and technical publications, even with
    expanded font and input support. Will you see people spelling their own names
    with tones? Will road signs in China include tones for road names and place names?
    I just don't see this happening."
  created: '2010-02-06 09:04:33'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "I think the important point is not whether the use of Pinyin  will become
    extensive and common or not. (I agree with you that its distribution is likely
    to be limited, though perhaps surprisingly large.) Learners can be expected to
    be somewhat familiar with Pinyin, and will occasionally encounter a situation
    where they may feel its use is important. In those situations, font designers
    are obligated to at least think about the results of Pinyin diacritic combinations,
    whether they bother to support them or not.\r\n\r\nFont designers do not generally
    make fonts for use in random, one-off situations, at least not when designing
    fonts for commercial use. A good font is instead designed to be functional and
    convenient for the largest variety of possibilities within the designer\u2019s
    capabilities and the design\u2019s restrictions. This is a hard idea to characterize
    precisely of course, but it is intuitively easy to grasp: make your work fit as
    many possible circumstances and uses as is within your means to support.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that if a font designer bothers to include the various European diacritics
    in a font, then they should consider the uses that an imaginative user might subject
    the font to. Deciding whether to support these uses is of course a separate decision,
    but a reasonable designer should at the very least ponder the possibilities. The
    large and increasing number of Mandarin Chinese learners \u2013 and occasionally
    native speakers \u2013\_who have some interest in Pinyin behooves font designers
    to at least consider the possibilities inherent. Of course it\u2019s still up
    to the individual designer whether they bother to invest the effort or not."
  created: '2010-02-06 12:27:21'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "I'm not seeing <em>T\xEA</em> (T\xEAte-\xE0-t\xEAte) and <em>F\xEA</em> (F\xEAte)
    in your latest list. Might not cause a problem though. Also; in Dutch the <em>j</em>
    can get an accent accute together with a predecessing <em>i</em> (as they are
    seen as a single character), which can lead to problems with a following questionmark
    or quotationmarks, although the 'j accent acute' is not in Unicode (I believe)."
  created: '2010-02-06 13:01:00'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: /track
  created: '2010-02-20 12:21:11'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: It seems to me that carons are in little danger of collision due to their
    shape. They don't seem to be in much more collision danger than a dot accent.
    In fonts that I tested where some other accents collide, the carons all seem to
    clear. I think if you have a situation where carons are colliding it probably
    means you need to check every possible accent combination, including dot accents.
    Hmm?
  created: '2010-02-21 12:54:49'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "I have spent a bit of time today doing kerning for underscores as I want
    my Ligature descriptions to look good.\r\nCame across a problem with a lowercase
    j so had to raise the underscore to sit on the baseline.\r\n\r\nSomething else
    to consider..."
  created: '2010-02-21 16:06:02'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: .
  created: '2010-02-22 16:09:29'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "On basis of this list I did a quick testing with two of the rare fonts which
    include all of these characters:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/accent_test_2_lucida_5557.jpg]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/accent_test_2_andron_5044.jpg]\r\n.\r\nAs
    one can see from this \u2013 admittedly humble \u2013 proof, the result is roughly
    the same, both in terms of quantity and of selection. That means, rather few pairings
    are in particular danger. These are the i_accents following f or P or T or V;
    a_ e_ and u_ogoneks followed by j. The worst candidates seem to be the combinations
    f_igrave, T_imacron and Ukrainian idieresis_idieresis.\r\n\r\nMore font testings
    with this yet-to-be-extended character string might be interesting."
  created: '2010-02-22 18:11:03'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I extended Typodermic\u2019s latest list by a few more pairs, some of them
    mentioned [[http://typophile.com/node/67672|in this thread]].\r\n\r\nThe string
    is:   \u0105j \u0105g \u0105y \u0107i \xE9\xEE f\xE2 f\u0101 f\u0103 f\xE3 f\xE5
    f\xE4 f\xE8 f\xEB f\u0113 f\xEC f\xEE fj f\xF6 f\xFC f\xF0 gj gy \xEE\xE8 \xEEt
    \xED\u010D \xED\u0148 \xED\u0159 \xED\u0161 \xED\u017E \xEFf \u012Fj \u012Fg \u012Fy
    \u0161i \u0161\u012B \u0161t \u017F\xE4 \u017F\xF6 \u017F\xFC \u017F\xFF t\u0103
    t\xE3 \xFA\u0159 \u0173j \u0173g \u0173y \u017E\u012B F\xE4 F\xE5 F\u0101 F\u0103
    F\xE3 F\xE8 F\xEB F\xEA F\u0113 F\xEC F\xEE F\xF6 K\u0101 K\xE4 K\xE5 K\u012B
    K\xF6 K\u0159 K\u016B P\xE4 P\xE5 P\u0101 P\u0103 P\xE3 P\xE8 P\xEB P\u0113 P\u011B
    P\xEC P\xEE P\xEF P\u012B P\u0148 P\xF6 P\u0159 P\u016B P\u017E \u0162\xE2 T\xE2
    T\xE4 T\xE5 T\u0101 T\u0103 T\xE3 T\xE8 T\xEA T\xEB T\u0113 T\u0115 T\u011B T\u012B
    T\xF6 T\u014D T\u0159 T\u0161 T\u016B T\u017E V\xE5 V\xE4 V\u0101 V\u0103 V\xE3
    V\xEB V\u0113 V\u011B V\xEE V\u012B V\xF6 V\u0161 V\u017E W\xE5 W\xE4 W\u0101
    W\xE8 W\xF6 Y\u0101 Y\xE3 Y\u016B \xB6 Cyrillic: \u0457\u0457 \u0456\u0457\r\n\r\nThe
    highlighted ones are my additions:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/accent_test_2_6525.jpg]\r\n.\r\nf\xF0
    occurs in Icelandic(?) and Old Norse. fj occurs in Norwegian. gy occurs in Hungarian.
    I also added some long-s pairs which are relevant for German. The Cyrillic ones
    have been reported to belong to Ukrainian (see thread mentioned.)"
  created: '2010-02-22 18:11:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-22 20:13:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"f\xF0 occurs in Icelandic(?)\"</cite>\r\nYes. The word \xABleyf\xF0\xBB
    occurs in the <a href=\"http://www.ohchr.org/EN/UDHR/Pages/Language.aspx?LangID=ice\">Icelandic
    translation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights</a> (and is also found
    elsewhere, Google has 107,000 hits)."
  created: '2010-02-22 20:16:05'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "The sequence fj also occurs in English, where the word <i>fjord</i> is borrowed
    from Norwegian. It\u2019s common in some contexts, like nature writing and glaciology.
    Although <i>fiord</i> is preferred in much of the Commonwealth, <i>fjord</i> is
    usual in the US and to a lesser extent in Canada."
  created: '2010-02-23 00:14:30'
date: '2010-01-30 06:45:29'
title: Accent collision lists

---
