---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "In which languages, except from German, are ligatures between word joints (\u201CAuflauf\u201D
  for example) forbidden?\r\n\r\nI think about adding kerning for letters pairs like
  fl to a font. But only for German and other languages, in which ligatures between
  word joints are forbidden.\r\n\r\n(And I need help verifying <strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/66868\">a
  few bugs [?] of Quark XPress</a></strong>.)"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I just saw this on Wikipedia (for what that's worth): in Turkish, since a
    dotless i and an i are distinct letters, the usual fi and ffi ligatures should
    be avoided.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dotted_and_dotless_I#Consequence_for_ligatures"
  created: '2010-02-01 23:09:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "The German rule exists in Norwegian typography, but it's not much practiced
    anymore. I think it's to some extent still used in Denmark. \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think it's a useless rule. Typography comes after semantics. Compound words
    are written and read as one word in all Germanic languages (except English). Not
    using a ligature is like introducing some pseudo space between the elements of
    the word. Besides, it would be great to see a fff-ligature in Schifffahrt. "
  created: '2010-02-01 23:32:22'
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: I think that since most of the applications that recognize ligatures also
    make them optional, you can safely leave their use to the users. Therefore, provide
    both ligatures, such as the fi ligature, but also provide kerning.
  created: '2010-02-01 23:43:31'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm not sure the rule is completely useless. Words/parts in compounds do
    seem very slightly harder to recognize to me when their boundaries are obfuscated
    by ligatures reaching across \u2013 I wonder, has this actually been researched/tested?\r\n\r\nIn
    any case:\r\n\r\n1) Instead of kerning, why not consider contextual alternates
    that avoid a crash without having to introduce a lot of white space? It bugs me
    when setting f + l/i/f without a ligature introduces large gaps; those combinations
    need to work without a ligature, too.\r\n\r\n2) Remember that [at least in German]
    the rule only really concerns \xABconnected\xBB ligatures. If you design your
    ligatures such that the involved characters don't touch (like with a shorter top
    on the \xABf\xBB), I believe you can ignore the rule."
  created: '2010-02-01 23:54:31'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Satyagraha\r\n\r\n<cite>Personally, I think it's a useless rule.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think, it is dependent from the typeface, the word, the look of the ligature,
    the distance between the letters. So it should be a case-to-case-decision.\r\n\r\n@
    altaira\r\n\r\n<cite>If you design your ligatures such that the involved characters
    don't touch (like with a shorter top on the \xABf\xBB), I believe you can ignore
    the rule.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn this case a ligature would be obsolete, wouldn\u2019t
    it? But there are fonts, in which it is not possible to shorten the top of the
    f, because it would result in a deep disharmony with the other letters.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-01 23:55:30'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"In this case a ligature would be obsolete, wouldn\u2019t it?\"</cite>\r\n?\r\nA
    well-designed \xABunconnected\xBB ligature glyph (for example, but not limited
    to, a solution with a shortened \xABf\xBB) can solve the exact same problems as
    a connected ligature, namely avoiding a crash while not introducing a mile of
    white space.* And it is technically still a ligature. Very handy to use for German.\r\nOf
    course I realize that doesn't work for all fonts. It's also potentially less pretty.
    But I think the option deserves to be mentioned."
  created: '2010-02-02 00:11:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ altaira\r\n\r\nI meant, that you don\u2019t have to create a ligature fi,
    if the top of the f is shortened. You could just add a substitution rule for the
    f or a multiple substitution rule like \u201Csub f i by f.alt i\u201D (That does
    not work with the FontLab compiler, but with the actual version of the AFDKO.)
    or a contextual substitution rule like \u201Csub f' i by f.alt\u201D."
  created: '2010-02-02 00:40:42'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Three examples applicable to many languages: \r\n\r\n<ol><li><a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/joeclark/tags/urlplusligature/\"
    title=\"Flickr photo\">URLs</a> (cf. <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/joeclark/2258982026/\"
    title=\"\uFB01ftymileso\uFB01deas.com\">this gem with ligatures in URL <em>and</em>
    across morpheme boundary</a>, which is what you\u2019re asking about)</li>\r\n<li><a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/joeclark/3256362222/\" title=\"Windlin example\">Monospaced
    fonts</a> (edge case for your question)</li>\r\n<li>Computer code (arguably also
    edge case)</li></ol>"
  created: '2010-02-02 18:38:48'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Joe\r\n\r\nIn case of URLs the ligatures maybe could be enabled or disabled
    by a contextual substitution rule. Replacing ligatures with a contextual rule,
    would be theoretically possible for all words, in which ligatures are forbidden.
    But then the font would contain a kind of dictionary or even dictionaries of different
    languages."
  created: '2010-02-03 08:07:39'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: I would just use a stylesheet.
  created: '2010-02-03 13:23:14'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I think setting (or not) of ligatures is a decision that should be left up
    to the users. There are so many cases and conventions to consider that even a
    brave attempt at font-level automation will realistically still need manual intervention
    anyway. Plus, it's often not a clear-cut matter of right and wrong. I for instance
    cringe at ligatures in monospaced fonts like Joe's second example above, but I
    know other designers who think they're just dandy. Or even in German: the rule
    for \xABfi\xBB has been eroded to a degree, and many people would now set words
    like \xABtypografisch\xBB with a ligature, which if you take the rule very seriously*
    should originally not be allowed and which I'm sure some purists still don't do.\r\n(*
    since \xAB-isch\xBB and \xAB-ig\xBB etc. are suffixes just like \xAB-lich\xBB
    in, say, \xABh\xF6flich\xBB, where definitely no ligature should be used.)"
  created: '2010-02-03 13:41:22'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>since \xAB-isch\xBB and \xAB-ig\xBB etc. are suffixes just like \xAB-lich\xBB
    in, say, \xABh\xF6flich\xBB, where definitely no ligature should be used.)</cite>\r\n\r\nReally?
    This is quite surprising and fascinating. To my non-German-speaking mind, it just
    seems that affixes ought to be treated differently from free morphemes in compound
    words that can stand on their own."
  created: '2010-02-03 13:53:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>(* since \xAB-isch\xBB and \xAB-ig\xBB etc. are suffixes just like
    \xAB-lich\xBB in, say, \xABh\xF6flich\xBB, where definitely no ligature should
    be used.)</cite>\r\n\r\nI did not know or forget that. In case of h\xF6flich I
    would prefer not having a ligature (dependent from the font) and in case of typografisch
    the rule is absurd \u2013 When I spell it, I make a break between gra and fisch,
    but not between graf and isch.\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nI just remember, that there
    is a bug in \xBBThe Elements of Typographic Style 3.1\xAB. Bringhurst did not
    seem to know about the German rule. It was not in a suffix, but did really look
    brutal.\r\n\r\n@ altaira\r\n\r\nWhat would you do with \u201CSauerstoffflasche\u201D?
    Creating a fffl-ligature? I mean, you would like to use a fff-ligature in \u201CSchifffahrt\u201D.
    That really looks bad in my eyes, although it probably is dependent from the font
    likewise."
  created: '2010-02-03 14:18:36'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I think Sindre (Satyagraha) and not Nina (Altaira) was the one that wanted
    to see a fff ligature for Schifffahrt.\r\n\r\nI personally would rather not."
  created: '2010-02-03 14:22:08'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Arno, AFAIK the rule only regards morpheme boundaries; hyphenation breaks
    can differ from those, as you point out, but don't factor in the ligature question.\r\n\r\n\r\nSee
    \xABDetailtypografie\xBB (p. 194): \xABLigaturen werden an <strong>Wortfugen von
    Zusammensetzungen</strong> weggelassen. [\u2026] Ligaturen werden <strong>auch
    \xFCber Trennfugen hinweg</strong> gesetzt \u2013 wenn die oberen Regeln nicht
    greifen.\xBB\r\n\r\nAlso see \xABDie Regel\xBB and \xABDie Ausnahme\xBB here (German):\r\nhttp://www.typografie.info/typowiki/index.php?title=Ligatur#Die_Regel\r\n\r\nBrian,
    I agree it may seem strange; I think the idea is just to make it clear where the
    boundaries lie, no matter how \xABindependent\xBB the individual parts are.\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\n<cite>\"What
    would you do with \u201CSauerstoffflasche\u201D?\"</cite>\r\nff + fl. The words
    are \xABSauerstoff\xBB and \xABflasche\xBB."
  created: '2010-02-03 14:22:24'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Oh, no, I wouldn''t want an fff lig in Schifffahrt. '
  created: '2010-02-03 14:23:52'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Thanks for the explanation, Nina. For English, too, one would use a ligature
    for "briefly" but hyphenate as "brief-ly".
  created: '2010-02-03 14:26:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "That actually was only the much abbreviated (and probably confusing?*) version\u2026
    \r\nEvery time the subject of German ligature rules comes up, I wonder if there
    isn't some good comprehensive English-language explanation already that could
    just be linked to. Maybe this should be in the wiki?\r\n\r\n(* \xABbriefly\xBB
    would exactly <em>not</em> have a ligature if it were a German word. :-)"
  created: '2010-02-03 14:31:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Correct, I was just using the example to show that we shouldn't expect a correlation
    between hyphenation boundaries and boundaries for ligature rules.
  created: '2010-02-03 14:45:11'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > What would you do with \u201CSauerstoffflasche\u201D? Creating a
    fffl-ligature?</cite>\r\n\r\nHard-core fans of Hoefler & Frere-Jones may recognize
    this from Requiem:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Requiem-Sauerstoffflasche_3901.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nSee
    also: http://www.typography.com/fonts/font_features.php?featureID=44&productLineID=100020"
  created: '2010-02-03 14:46:42'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Oh boy, that's groovy! Thanks a lot. I wasn't completely serious when I made
    that comment about triple-f ligature in <em>Schifffahrt</em>. (I'm not a fan of
    the new German spelling, by the way. I think the old <em>Schiffahrt</em> made
    more sense. North-Germanic languages still forbids more than two equal consonants
    in compound words. That's a more elegant solution, in my opinion.)
  created: '2010-02-03 14:57:07'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Apart from \u2018Sauerstoffflasche\u2019, this ligature can be used for a
    second word: \u2018Auspuffflamme\u2019 \u2013 as <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/42815?from=0&comments_per_page=5000#comment-263936\">mentioned
    in the classic oodles of poodles thread</a>. The spelling on the H&FJ site is
    still wrong."
  created: '2010-02-03 15:16:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "We could think up some more of these. \xABGrifffl\xE4che\xBB comes to mind.
    But, much as I hate being a partypooper, the ligature is still technically wrong
    there, no?  <:-p"
  created: '2010-02-03 15:31:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I just tried to find more words, that contain the string fffl, but neither
    Wikipedia nor Google seem to accept more than one joker an I found acronyms only.
    I could try to search in one of the German dictionaries for OpenOffice/Firefox.
    They are simple text files.
  created: '2010-02-03 15:56:20'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "From a grep on Thunderbird de-DE-comb.dic dictionary:\r\n\r\nAuspuffflamme\r\nKunststoffflaschen\r\nKunststoffflugzeug\r\nKunststofffl\xE4che\r\nNotsauerstoffflasche\r\nSauerstoffflamme\r\nSauerstoffflasche\r\nSchlifffl\xE4che\r\nSchmierstofffluss\r\nSpaltstoffflusskontrolle\r\nStickstoffflasche\r\nStofffluss\r\nStofffl\xE4che\r\nTreibstofffluss\r\nWasserstoffflamme\r\nWasserstoffflugzeug\r\nWerkstofffluss\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 16:10:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Well, I seem to have a smaller dictionary. I did found Sauerstoffflasche
    only. So I searched for words, that end on ff. This was the result:\r\n\r\nArtillerieangriff\r\nAtombombenangriff\r\nAtombrennstoff\r\nBegleitschiff\r\nBergungsschiff\r\nBetreff\r\nBildungsstoff\r\nBluff\r\nBlutsauerstoff\r\nDirektzugriff\r\nDiskussionsstoff\r\nDompfaff\r\nDramenstoff\r\nEckenschliff\r\nElfmeterpfiff\r\nEntlastungsangriff\r\nErsatzstoff\r\nExplosionsstoff\r\nF\xE4hrschiff\r\nFliegerangriff\r\nFlottenangriff\r\nForschungsschiff\r\nFremdstoff\r\nGlanzstoff\r\nG\xFCterschiff\r\nHalbzeitpfiff\r\nHauptn\xE4hrstoff\r\nHemdenstoff\r\nHotelschiff\r\nH\xFCttensauerstoff\r\nIsolationsstoff\r\nIsolierstoff\r\nKhakistoff\r\nKoffergriff\r\nKonterangriff\r\nKreuzfahrtschiff\r\nK\xFCstenmotorschiff\r\nLesezugriff\r\nMeutererschiff\r\nMittelschiff\r\nMittenabgriff\r\nNachtangriff\r\nNachtfliegerangriff\r\nOberbegriff\r\nOffensivangriff\r\nPapierzellstoff\r\nParallelzugriff\r\nPatrouillenschiff\r\nRechtsbegriff\r\nR\xFCckgriff\r\nSegelschulschiff\r\nSheriff\r\nSowjetangriff\r\nSturmangriff\r\nWikingerschiff\r\nXoff\r\n\r\nSo
    I can add two more fffl-words: Dompfafffl\xFCgel and Dompfafffliegerei. And if
    your cat kills a young Dompfaff inside the house, you have a lot of Dompfaffflusen
    in your rooms."
  created: '2010-02-03 16:26:54'
- author:
    name: jonasthyssen
  body: "@satayagraha\r\n\r\nI'm apprenticing as a graphic designer in Denmark, and
    i've never ever heard of such a rule, not in my typography classes, not in my
    danish classes or at my workplace where i'm currently doing typesetting. \r\n\r\nbut
    if anyone can confirm that there is such a rule please do, cause i'd like to know
    :D"
  created: '2010-02-03 17:08:18'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Arno wrote: <em>Elfmeterpfiff</em>\r\n\r\nI see some potential for a word
    with an fi, ff and fl ligature there :)\r\n\r\n<em>Well, I seem to have a smaller
    dictionary</em>\r\n...\r\n<em>Sowjetangriff</em>\r\n\r\nAnd probably a quite old
    one, too ;)"
  created: '2010-02-03 18:28:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Jonas, this is a quote from Danish Wikipedia's [[http://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligatur|article
    on typography]]: \"I omhyggelig typografi anvendes ligaturen \"fi\" kun n\xE5r
    de to bogstaver indg\xE5r i samme stavelse.\" (<em>\"In meticulous typography,
    ligatures are only used for two glyphs in the same syllable\"</em>). That's an
    even stricter rule than the German one. "
  created: '2010-02-03 19:23:47'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I see some potential for a word with an fi, ff and fl ligature there
    :)</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t like soccer. Absolute no idea."
  created: '2010-02-03 19:44:54'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: That Danish article only specifies the "fi" ligature for that rule, although
    it follows a discussion on the whole series of "f" ligatures; a more literal translation
    would be "<em>In meticulous typography the ligature "fi" is used only when the
    two letters are included in the same syllable</em>". It's hard to tell whether
    the same is implied for other ligatures.
  created: '2010-02-03 21:44:07'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: You're right, that was a lazy translation. I must put the blame on a not so
    slight fever that struck me earlier today. But it seems odd that it's only the
    "fi" ligature that's treated this way.
  created: '2010-02-03 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I would try to look for a more definitive source, because it seems odd to
    me too. Wikipedia articles often are visibly hodgepodge, after all.\r\n\r\nI looked
    at the Wikipedia articles on ligatures from a number of different language editions,
    and just a couple mentions the restrictions on ligatures in German or Turkish.
    Dutch, interestingly, is one of them, with no word on such restrictions in Dutch
    itself."
  created: '2010-02-03 22:25:02'
- author:
    name: Joshua
  body: "altaira wrote:\r\n<cite>Or even in German: the rule for \xABfi\xBB has been
    eroded to a degree, and many people would now set words like \xABtypografisch\xBB
    with a ligature, which if you take the rule very seriously* should originally
    not be allowed and which I'm sure some purists still don't do.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't agree with you on this. I'm pretty sure suffixes beginning with an i (as
    in <em>typografisch</em> or <em>h\xE4ufig</em>) have always been coupled up by
    a ligature, because they are spoken connectedly with the stem. So the traditional
    and still valid rule is, in my opinion:\r\n\r\n<strong>Ligatures are to be used
    if the concerned letters are part of one morpheme or spoken connectedly.</strong>\r\n\r\nCan
    you provide a sample of a suffix beginning with an i that is <em>not</em> coupled
    up by a ligature?"
  created: '2010-02-04 01:15:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Joshua, do you have a source for your version of the rule?\r\n\r\nI really
    don't think we should mix in how things are spoken (or hyphenated, see above).
    That only muddles things even more. But the \xABfi\xBB does seem a strange exception.\r\nFWIW
    <a href=\"http://www.typografie.info/typoforum/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=6493\">I asked
    a similar question on [German] typografie.info a while ago</a>, and was directed
    to the Wiki resource I linked to above, which <a href=\"http://www.typografie.info/typowiki/index.php?title=Ligatur#Der_liebe_Duden\">also
    says</a> (regarding the Duden): \xABDie Erw\xE4hnung von Sprechsilben ist hier
    irref\xFChrend (wenn es nach Sprechsilben ginge, d\xFCrfte auch in <em>schaffen</em>,
    s. o., keine Ligatur gesetzt werden).\xBB \r\nDunno, I think that's a good point.\r\n\r\nMy
    (first ed.) copy of <em>Detailtypografie</em> seems a bit vague on the subject,
    maybe newer editions have more?"
  created: '2010-02-04 08:52:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "In Sanskrit, which has many many conjunct consonants\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/itrans/itmanual2003.pdf
    (page 28 seq.)\r\n\r\nligatures must be avoided \"in pausa\", and a special sign,
    the \"virama\", is used in the Devanagari script to prevent such occurrences.\r\n\r\nI
    wrote a book on this topic, entitled \"Conjunct Consonants in Sanskrit\". This
    large monograph on consonantal ligatures has not yet been published.\r\n\r\nAs
    an aside, I mention that concerning this copyrighted book, which is not yet available
    to the public, a hacker attack was made on my hard disk by two Berlin law firms
    (Hertin Anwaltssoziet\xE4t and JBB Rechtsanw\xE4lte).\r\n\r\nsee www.chillingeffects.de/unerlaubt.pdf
    (page 15 seq.)"
  created: '2010-02-04 11:24:05'
- author:
    name: Joshua
  body: "Altaira, in the book \u201CVollst\xE4ndiges theoretisch-praktisches Handbuch
    der Typographie\u201D from 1870, it is explained that Ligatures should not be
    used between syllables and coupled words. Given as examples are, among others,
    \u201Cwol-len\u201D and \u201Cschif-fen\u201D, which should be set without ligature.
    However, the author states that in these cases ligature are sometimes used (he
    says this about the double l examples only, but I think the other cases are meant,
    too). The book is available scanned online, you can read the passage hier: [[http://www.archive.org/stream/vollstndigesthe00maragoog#page/n51/mode/1up]]\r\n\r\nThe
    ligature usage surely wasn\u2019t uniform at the beginning; and, as you can see,
    syllables played a role. The now valid usage, following primarily morphemes, and
    no longer syllables, must have developed over time.\r\n\r\nI think the reason
    for the fi exception (using a fi ligature when a suffix begins with i) is, that
    the typesetters didn\u2019t think, like linguists, about morphemes. They thought
    about \u201Cword parts\u201D. Because suffices like \u201C-lich\u201D are spoken
    as separate syllables, they felt like separate word parts. The suffices beginning
    with i are spoken connected, and therefore just didn\u2019t feel like separate
    word parts.\r\n\r\nBy the way, if the stem ends with an s, in Fraktur setting
    a long \u017F is used, for example in \u201Cro\u017Fig\u201D. (With a ligature,
    of course.) So you can see: the morpheme boundary between the stem and suffices
    beginning with i really isn\u2019t treated as a \u201Cword part boundary\u201D.
    And I believe the reason is: that it\u2019s spoken connectedly!\r\n\r\nOf course,
    these are just my beliefs. I would really like to know what other books of that
    time (before 1900) say about the subject. Maybe someone can help us with some
    information?"
  created: '2010-02-04 16:20:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "balletttheater\r\npappplakat\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.proz.com/forum/linguistics/57496-looking_for_languages_that_permit_three_identical_letters_in_a_row-.html\">More
    three-in-a-row</a>"
  created: '2010-02-04 16:58:09'
- author:
    name: jonasthyssen
  body: "@satayagraha\r\n\r\nwow, thanks wasn't aware of such a rule."
  created: '2010-02-04 17:03:13'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Joshua, interesting find! \r\nYes, looks like the rule really has changed
    quite a bit over time \u2013 then again, it's been 140 years, and especially the
    German language seems to have changed in all sorts of respects since then.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"ro\u017Fig\"</cite>\r\nWow,
    really? Crazy. Yes, there could be some connection there, possibly in terms of
    \xAB-ig\xBB and such not \xABcounting\xBB as \xABfull\xBB suffixes for some reason.
    We need German linguists in here!\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I would really like to know what
    other books of that time (before 1900) say about the subject\"</cite>\r\nYes that
    would be interesting. Although I'd be even more interested in why exactly f_i
    is treated differently today. In a current context, I still doubt the syllable
    thing holds water, or at least that it is supposed to. (Your theory about typesetters
    \xABdoing it wrong\xBB so it became common usage sounds plausible to me.)"
  created: '2010-02-04 17:41:26'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Of course, these are just my beliefs. I would really like to know what
    other books of that time (before 1900) say about the subject. Maybe someone can
    help us with some information?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the French wiki on ligatures,
    it is said that <em>ligatures techniques</em> (technical ligatures) are those
    ligatures that were used to avoid metal characters from breaking due to collisions:
    the dot on the i could break after an f if the letters were not melt together.
    Of course they could have had different looking combinations to take care of linguistic
    rules, but that may help understanding the context.\r\n\r\nEdit: they add \"En
    allemand, l\u2019utilisation des ligatures esth\xE9tiques se doit de respecter
    des contraintes morphologiques i.e \"In German, aesthetic ligatures need to satisfy
    morphological constraints\". So there seems to be a difference between aesthetic
    ligatures and technical ligatures..."
  created: '2010-02-04 18:09:43'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "<code><a href=\"http://ffffound.com/\" title=\"ffffound.com\">ffffound.com</a></code>:
    <cite>\uFB00</cite>+<cite>\uFB00</cite>, <cite>f</cite>+<cite>f</cite><cite>f</cite><cite>f</cite>,
    <cite>f</cite><cite>f</cite><cite>f</cite>+<cite>f</cite>, <cite>f</cite>+<cite>f</cite>+<cite>f</cite>+<cite>f</cite>?\r\n\r\nURLs
    are case-insensitive, so: <code>FFFFound.com</code>?"
  created: '2010-02-04 23:19:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "There are typefaces, in which letter combinations fl almost look like a ligature.
    I would like to know, if there is a way to turn the kerning of those letter pairs
    of or on with the help of an OT feature, independent from  the language. A kind
    of anti-ligature-feature and anti-fake-ligature-feature.\r\n\r\nIn this context
    I wonder about the following: Where is the problem to program DTP software in
    a way, that it recognizes those features, from which the software knows, that
    they are registered; and the other features are simply listed by their custom
    name? Example: If Indesign would not recognize the dlig feature as a registered
    feature, it simply could add an item dlig to the OT menu. The programming language
    of features is the same in case of all features."
  created: '2010-02-10 11:43:06'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I meanwhile think, that it is needed to break the German ligature rule, if
    the ligatures are more legible than the single letters, if there is a big whole
    between them. But I would like to know from professional typographers of German
    texts, who is plucky enough to do that. Who has already done that? I mean, it
    is clearly a violation of German orthography rules (although it does not belong
    to the field of orthography in my opinion) and according to leading specialist
    in (German) typography, namely Forssmann and Willberg, they strictly avoid it.
    So these two are not plucky enough to break the rule, when breaking it improves
    the legibility. Even a word like Schifffahrt can be more legible with an fff-ligature
    in case of some fonts. I wonder, how much power typographers have in book projects.
    Who has the last word there, the editor (lecturer) or the typographer? And who
    is allowed to officially change those rules with regard to their strictness?
  created: '2010-03-23 08:06:37'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: Sprengstofffund
  created: '2011-03-31 21:03:29'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "Thank you for all the useful word lists and links in this thread. \r\n\r\nSeeing
    the fff ligature in some fonts from SoftMaker, I decided to add some more ligatures
    to my [[[http://www.softerviews.org/Fonts.html#Sukhumala|Sukhumala font]] (derived
    from [[https://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Sorts+Mill+Goudy|Sort Mills Goudy]]).
    \r\n\r\n[[http://forum.high-logic.com/viewtopic.php?f=16&t=5140 |See this thread
    on the High-Logic forum for details. ]]"
  created: '2014-08-27 11:19:31'
date: '2010-02-01 22:53:06'
title: In which languages are ligatures between word joints forbidden?

---
