---
author:
  name: ncaleffi
  picture: 113555
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sabon_serif01_4689.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sabon_sans01_6627.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
  is from Christopher Burke's excellent \"Active Literature\" - one of the best book
  on typography I own. In the final pages Burke shows some very interesting sketches
  by Tschichold of a sanserif version of Sabon, done around 1960. Burke wrote:\r\n\r\n\"Despite
  the dismissive things he wrote about sanserif in his later years, Tschichold seems
  never to have lost interest in this category of letterform: the first designs he
  made for his classic typeface Sabon also included a sanserif version, which was
  never produced. Here he tried to incorporate elements od old-face roman type into
  sanserif, in a different way than Eric Gill had done, and his sketches show that
  he anticipated some of the features that surfaced in sanserif types of the 1990s
  (and later)\".\r\n\r\nBurke's book is the only place where I have found references
  to a Sabon sans. A couple of more sketches show some different treatmens of the
  sans - the shape of the lowercase \"a\", for example.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sabon_sans02_4037.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAfter
  reading Burke's passage, a question comes to mind: what are the contemporary sans
  that Tschichold anticipated? On another level, looking at the serif sketch, it is
  easy to see - for me at least - how the early drawnings of Sabon were much more
  related to the Garamond model than the official version released in late Sixties."
comments:
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Nice post! I had no idea Tschichold was attempting this. In 1960, he would
    have known Optima, wouldn't he? I wonder if Hans Eduard Meyer knew about Tschichold's
    sketches when he drew Syntax in 1968.
  created: '2010-02-02 13:19:56'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "I would love to see a faithful sans version . . . but faithful to the original
    (digital) Sabon, with all its wonderful personality. \r\n\r\nSabon LT (Std) is
    still my favourite. "
  created: '2010-02-02 16:50:24'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: '@Sindre: Syntax was released only in 1968, but Hans Eduard Meier drew the
    first designs for this humanistic sans-serif as early as 1954. The design process
    was finished by 1964.'
  created: '2010-02-02 17:06:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Huh, I'd never heard about this!\r\nI expect to see a revival this year...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 17:50:41'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Fascinating.\r\nI would love to know if Meier knew of Tschichold's (in that
    case, pretty much simultaneous) project."
  created: '2010-02-02 18:26:24'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: Goudy Sans?
  created: '2010-02-02 18:28:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Also makes me think of Stone Sans, the reworking of which was just released.\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/en/6229/itcstonesansii.html\r\n\r\n(edit:
    not intended as a possible precedent, obviously)"
  created: '2010-02-02 18:42:41'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hmm. I don\u2019t think I\u2019d ever heard of this \u201CSabon Sans\u201D
    project before, either.\r\n\r\nBut those images immediately brought to mind something
    I was sketching back in the summer of 1999:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OldstyleSans-sketches_6702.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OldstyleSans_test4b_6720.gif]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWhich
    I pretty soon after set aside. I deemed the concept too derivative and unoriginal
    at the time. That, and my digitization skills weren\u2019t up to the task."
  created: '2010-02-02 19:00:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, I have to agree that this is a bit ho-hum.\r\nExcept for the bottom-most
    \"a\", upon which I\r\ncan see you basing a pleasant and significant\r\ndesign.
    Even though a single expressive glyph\r\nisn't <em>supposed</em> to do that in
    a text face.  :-)\r\n\r\nIn fact the only really good reason to actually\r\nmake
    Sabon Sans is because Sabon -a widely\r\nused and very capable typeface- would
    benefit\r\nfrom having a sans companion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-02 19:31:59'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Joe:\r\n\r\nIs Goudy Sans free?\r\n\r\n[edited by moderator, see note below]\r\n\r\nI'm
    seeing it offered for sale elsewhere."
  created: '2010-02-02 20:29:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: High-contrast sans serif is a relatively sparsely populated genre.
  created: '2010-02-02 20:32:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Christian, I have deleted the link you have posted. I highly doubt it is
    legal.\r\nThe SIT archive you linked to contains a Read Me file that states:\r\n\r\n<cite>Goudy
    Sans is a copyrighted commercial typeface. It may NOT be distributed to other
    electronic bulletin boards, FTP sites, online services, Web sites, diskettes or
    CDs \u2014 be they shareware or commercial collections.</cite>"
  created: '2010-02-02 20:39:22'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Florian:\r\n\r\nMy apologies!\r\n\r\nCNET hosting pirated material? That's
    a new one."
  created: '2010-02-02 21:14:30'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "Great to see these sketches for Sabon Sans! Why didn't anybody knew of its
    existance before? \r\n\r\nI wrote down my thoughts on the 'contrast + no serifs'
    problem in a thread about trilangual book typography, I am also mentioning Sabon
    Sans. \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/66389"
  created: '2010-02-02 21:58:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Nicola!
  created: '2010-02-02 22:07:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The originator of that font is http://www.fontsite.com/ and they're selling
    it for $12.95, so it is not a copyrighted font that they authorized someone else
    to distribute for free as far as I can tell.\r\n\r\nI suspect that since fonts
    can't include copy protection and still work, some sites simply can't tell that
    they're pirated."
  created: '2010-02-02 22:19:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nicola, thanks for sharing this. Very intriguing! I assume many of you know
    about Dwiggins' experiment, and Matthew Carter's very similar experiment, also
    from the 60's. Both seem to have started with a Renaissance serif design and removed
    serifs. Kent, thanks for showing your trials. Great minds think alike! \r\n\r\nI
    don't think of Syntax as being as closely related because it's very slightly modulated;
    it's still clearly a humanist sans. But Meier did eventually develop a semi-serif,
    Syndor, intended as a hybrid of Syntax and Barbedor. It looks to me like a different
    path. Vestigial serifs.\r\n\r\nThere were a bunch of flared sans designs in the
    20th century as well as a number of modulated sans designs with an angled stress.
    Craig brought up [[http://www.typophile.com/node/53266|in this older thread]]
    a design by Gill with the flared quality, which is more like Stellar, Mentor Sans
    or Magma. The stressed sans designs like Lydian and Stahl seem to be directly
    derived from the broad pen, rather than a serif type as a starting point.\r\n\r\nThen
    there are more typographic designs like Amira and Amerigo, which don't seem as
    much tied to a specific tool or a serif precursor. Clearly there are numerous
    ways to approach this idea, and the variations make all this experimentation worthwhile.
    \r\n\r\nMartin, I like your idea in the Trilingual Typography thread that a contrasting
    sans could fit a niche in a superfamily."
  created: '2010-02-03 02:10:16'
- author:
    name: qu1j0t3
    picture: 109648
  body: "Reminded me of Legacy Sans, which looks gross by comparison :/\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/legacy-sans/\r\n\r\nI
    am sure there is a better contemporary example somewhere..."
  created: '2010-02-03 17:35:49'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Yes, the atrocious Legacy Sans, a Comic Sans\u2013like dead giveaway of a
    nonexistent eye for type, is what I had been trying to put my finger on."
  created: '2010-02-03 18:53:31'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: FWIW Hans Eduard Meier based Syntax on the skeleton of Stempel Garamond, so
    there are definitely parallels with the Sabon Sans sketches.
  created: '2010-02-03 19:54:38'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: This is fascinating, esp. the visual parallels to Syntax, Optima, etc. remarked
    upon. Can NOT wait to see someone scoop up and own a new revival / interpretation...
  created: '2010-02-04 03:52:45'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Just to split a hair: Syntax and other humanist sans designs adapt the grotesque
    or monolinear style to the proportions or skeleton of a Renaissance face. The
    experiments by Lew, Tschichold, Carter etc. are more motivated by the interest
    in a modulated Renaissance design without serifs. The contrast here is important.
    \r\n\r\nI think this is worth distinguishing. The results are certainly visibly
    different. Otherwise why would Martin Majoor be considering it a 4th style in
    a superfamily like Nexus? "
  created: '2010-02-04 17:10:17'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "Jos Buivenga from the exljbris typefoundery is also working further on this
    idea of a super family, consisting of 4 members.\r\n\r\nOnly he started with the
    \"4th style\" before started working on serif, sans and slab. This Fontin Semi
    (as he calls it himself) is a nice mix of incised shapes and half serifs.\r\n\r\nHave
    a look here:  http://www.flickr.com/photos/exljbris/4332231996/"
  created: '2010-02-05 10:51:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I experimented with monolinear sans, high-contrast sans, and slab versions
    of Bodoni, but didn't find the sans worth pursuing.\r\nThe monolinear sans was
    rather bland, and the high contrast sans would not, I assumed, be useful to typographers,
    lacking sufficient contrast against either a serif face, or a sans.\r\n\r\nBut
    let me ask you Carl, what kind of layouts do you find Beorcana used in?\r\nDo
    people use it as a single face, contrasting its different weights, or in tandem
    with other genres--and if so which?"
  created: '2010-02-05 12:34:08'
- author:
    name: Christopher Burke
  body: "Just some points of information:\r\nThe sketches and proofs pictured above
    are contained in the archive of Tschichold's working material at the Deutsche
    Nationalbibliothek (Leipzig). \r\nThese photographs were taken in 2006 by Fred
    Smeijers, who immediately perceived how interesting this sanserif design was when
    he encountered it. \r\nThe images are printed in my book _Active literature: Jan
    Tschichold and New Typography_, published by Hyphen Press:\r\nhttp://hyphenpress.co.uk/books/978-0-907259-32-9"
  created: '2010-02-05 13:43:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> he started with the \"4th style\"\r\n\r\nI'm curious: since he started
    at the \"wrong\" place,\r\ndo you see any negative effects in the results?\r\n\r\n>
    The monolinear sans was rather bland\r\n\r\nMaybe because -deep down- <em>Bodoni</em>
    is bland!\r\nAs Ovink said: \"Bodoni would be an admirable letter for a death
    notice.\"\r\n\r\n> These photographs were taken in 2006 by Fred Smeijers\r\n\r\nThat
    makes it even more peculiar that even Martin didn't know about it.\r\n\r\nIt's
    certainly nice to abruptly discover something significant.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nChristopher:
    very nice to see you on Typophile now! Welcome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 15:05:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Christopher, your book is one of my favorites! Well written, researched,
    and designed--a treasure!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-02-05 15:13:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Yes, terrific works. Welcome!
  created: '2010-02-05 15:18:10'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick: I've been surprised that more aren't using Beorcana for books, since
    it is a comfortable reading face. I see more display use than text, but in the
    US (where I am) I think graphic designers are very conservative about type selection,
    especially book designers. You noticed the problem with this kind of face: not
    enough contrast with serif or sans.\r\n\r\nI could see Bodoni Sans being boring,
    but there must be some inspiration in a more lively Modern like Walbaum or Prillwitz.
    There are already some interesting new grotesques out there, maybe someone can
    play with contrast more. \r\n\r\nSaving up for Christopher's new book."
  created: '2010-02-05 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" I think graphic designers are very conservative about type selection\"\r\n\r\nIt
    may be more the editors or clients who are more conservative about type choice,
    Carl. It is tough for graphic designers to convince their clients to push the
    envelope with a text face."
  created: '2010-02-05 20:38:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "> I'm curious: since he started at the \"wrong\" place, do you see any negative
    effects in the results?\r\n\r\nI am not saying Jos started at the \"wrong\" place.
    In his Fontin his serif design with contrast is derived from his semi-serif, but
    it could have easily been the other way around. They are both a good basis for
    the sans. Certainly no negative effects in the results.\r\n\r\nIn fact these two
    versions are the 1st and 2nd style, the sans is the 3rd style, which obviously
    makes the slab the 4th style. Starting with the sans would be starting at the
    \"wrong\" place!\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the way, I am definitely going to buy Chistopher
    Burke's book (and I will ask Fred why he never told me about this great discovery
    earlier)."
  created: '2010-02-06 23:58:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Starting with the sans would be starting at the \"wrong\" place!\"</cite>\r\nI'm
    curious \u2013 why is it, according to your philosophy, that the development absolutely
    has to move from serif to sans rather than the other way round? \r\n(Please feel
    free to point me somewhere else if you've explained this before.)"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, but: how is a semi not half as bad as starting from a sans?\r\n\r\nI
    guess I'm asking what Nina is asking, but by trying to\r\nleverage insight via
    an existing third-party superfamily.\r\n\r\nIf that's confusing, let me try this:
    Could you point to a\r\nsuperfamily that started with a sans, and what specific\r\nproblems
    you see in it because of that line of derivation?\r\nI know this is a long-shot
    - I can't think of any such\r\nsuperfamily myself off the top of my head.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:13:49'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "> I'm curious \u2013 why is it, according to your philosophy, that the development
    absolutely has to move from serif to sans rather than the other way round?\r\n\r\nNina,
    Maybe I can explain it to you by comparing type with a human body and its clothes.
    In my view the serif design is the human body on which you can put clothes. These
    clothes could be a sans or a slab or maybe even something else. One thing is sure:
    the clothes have to fit more or less with the body. After being dressed the body
    itself becomes almost invisible, only very specific details will be recognized
    (like long leggs, short arms, a big butt). \r\n\r\nNow, if you start with the
    clothes (sans serif), what body could be inside? You hardly can't tell because
    the clothes will hide all details of the body. There could be anybody inside.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to dress Mr. Walbaum, you will come up with a suite that looks like Akzidenz
    Grotesk. But if you take a suite like Akzidenz Grotesk, you can imagine a whole
    range of different bodies inside.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> Could you point to a superfamily
    that started with a sans, and what specific\r\nproblems you see in it because
    of that line of derivation?\r\n\r\nHrant, I can give one example of a family that
    started with a sans: my much adored Syntax. When in 2000 Syntax Serif was released
    I was very disappointed. Syntax Serif has been forced in a shape that looks artificial
    and frightened, where Syntax looks strong and self-confident. \r\n\r\nThis I found
    on MyFonts about Syntax Serif: \"With this new design, Meier has at last given
    shape and structure to the invisible muse that inspired him in the 1950s when
    he conceived his monoline sans serif based on humanist or Oldstyle letterforms.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    (Please feel free to point me somewhere else if you've explained this before.)\r\n\r\nNina,
    I have explained this in my type design philosophy which you can find on my website:
    http://www.martinmajoor.com/6_my_philosophy.html\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 01:29:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In my view the serif design is the human body on which you can put clothes.\"\r\n\r\nMartin,
    while I can easily understand your point, I guess I just see it as only one way
    of looking. It makes it sound as though there is a dependency or a dominant-submissive
    relationship between serif and sans. I don't agree with either. To me, they are
    just different forms. The sans has less history in calligraphy and more in industry
    but these things are superficial. I don't see one as being born from another.
    They are like paternal twins, both from the same family but each true to itself
    as an individual, whichever one was born first."
  created: '2010-02-07 01:55:37'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: What is true in architecture is not the same in typography.
  created: '2010-02-07 02:06:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Martin, I don't like Syntax Serif either, but honestly it's\r\nnot because
    I grasp the body/clothes view you explained.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I think you can go from a sans to a serif if you don't get too bogged down
    with getting the family resemblance right through matching the shapes. The resulting
    serif, if done well, may not have an obvious relationship with the sans, but will
    harmonize well by capturing the spirit rather than the details in the shape. I'm
    thinking of something like Meta Serif or Galaxie Copernicus here.\r\n\r\nI do
    recognize that it's much easier to go from a serif to a sans."
  created: '2010-02-07 10:32:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you for the explanation and the link, Martin. \r\nI agree to pretty
    much everything Chris has said in reply. I see how it may appear more intuitive
    to derive the sans from the serif rather than the other way round \u2013 it's
    the path of formal reduction, plus it parallels history and the phylogenesis of
    the sans \u2013, but I don't really get the body/clothes thing either, or <em>why</em>
    you would put the serifed version so much at the heart of the forms that it would
    be <em>wrong</em> to start at the other side.\r\nI'd worry that the overall approach
    of only seeing structures based in [traditional] serif faces as \xABcorrect\xBB
    (like with Italics, too, BTW) restricts the \xABpermissible\xBB options in designing
    fonts very much (and semi-arbitrarily), blocking the view for potentially finding
    new solutions that also work. <em>Cui bono?</em> "
  created: '2010-02-07 13:28:39'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "> The sans has less history in calligraphy and more in industry but these
    things are superficial. I don't see one as being born from another. They are like
    paternal twins, both from the same family but each true to itself as an individual,
    whichever one was born first.\r\n\r\nChris: The serif was born first, that is
    a fact (I am talking about printing types since 1500). But if the sans - in your
    view - wasn't born from the serifed typefaces, can you then tell me what the examples
    were that the punchcutters used to cut the first sanses around 1850?  "
  created: '2010-02-08 07:52:26'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: 'On a related note: two sans designs by Arthur Baker from 1965 and 1967: <a
    href="http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/baker-signet/baker-signet/">Baker
    Signet</a> & <a href="http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/softmaker/sigvar-serial/">Sigvar</a>.'
  created: '2010-02-08 08:18:21'
- author:
    name: Nostratypus
    picture: 118080
  body: ">Now, if you start with the clothes (sans serif), what body could be inside?
    You hardly can't tell because the clothes will hide all details of the body. There
    could be anybody inside.\r\n\r\nThe Serif-first philosophy is heavy-handed\r\nDespite
    the success of Scala\r\nA designer must choose what to draw first,\r\nThe letter
    g, H, o\r\nSerif, sans serif"
  created: '2010-02-08 08:29:21'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "Not as old, but Karl Gerstner made an attempt in the early Eighties derived
    from a didone-like typeface which he offered originally to IBM and which later
    was published as <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/berthold/gerstner-bq/\">Gerstner
    Original</a>.\r\n\r\nSee also Hans Reichel\u2019s <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/berthold/barmeno-bq/\">Barmeno</a>,
    published 1983."
  created: '2010-02-08 09:05:25'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "This Sabons Sans thread has taken an interesting direction - a discussion
    about the relation of sans and serif, and their origins. Since the common opinion
    about Sans typefaces is that they first appeared in the Nineteenth century (William
    Caslon), I would like to point you to Sumner Stone's argument about the pre-Roman
    origin of the Sans, explained in many essays appeared in recent years. In \"The
    Essential Form\", for example, Stone states that \"Although the recent history
    of the sans begins only 200 years ago, its earliest appearances are in the simplified
    drawings which make up the Sumerian and Egyptian scripts of around 3100 BCE.\"
    He refers to epigraphic inscription and not to calligraphic letters, by the way.
    As I already mentioned, I guess Stone's writings on the matter is really interesting;
    you can check his arguments in the essays \"Letters Lost\", \"Warp and Woof\",
    \"The Essential Form\" and \"Transitions in form the pre-serif letter\", here:\r\n\r\nhttp://stonetypefoundry.com/alphabetfarmjour.html"
  created: '2010-02-08 09:07:15'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: 'True: what Stone is explaining is often neglected. A Sans is not as revolutionary
    as is always spread.'
  created: '2010-02-08 09:59:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The serif was born first, that is a fact\r\n> (I am talking about printing
    types since 1500).\r\n\r\n?\r\nWhy would you look only at printing types?\r\nFrankly
    it's plain common sense that sans is much older than serif.\r\n\r\nBut anyway,
    why would somebody making fonts for today limit\r\nhimself with such chronology?
    Letting history predetermine the\r\nfuture is not a good plan...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 14:32:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: e, o, c, g, t and s don't have serifs in both Sabons.
  created: '2010-02-08 16:41:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get what you're getting at.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 16:44:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Just an observation.
  created: '2010-02-08 17:07:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Martin: History is unimportant if you are starting a superfamily from scratch
    today. Start with either of both together if it suits your way of working. Besides,
    there are some ancient Greek stone inscribed sans letters that predate metal type
    by thousands of years. I just do not see a sans as being a clothed serif. It is
    more like the difference between a bird and a mammal. Putting feathers on a cow
    does not make it fly. :-)'
  created: '2010-02-08 17:30:38'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I\u2019ve been thinking about this since the thread started. Is it not true
    that these high-contrast sansserifs with calligraphic overtones are a difficult
    act to balance? Too much contrast and you get pinched corners. Too much calligraphy
    and you turn into a signpainter and end up with a 1950s casual typeface like Klang.
    \r\n\r\nI think Formata is not too far away from the original theme of this thread.
    I think Formata is due for a revival, actually.\r\n\r\nCarl will be aware that
    I have a pretty strong suspicion that Beorcana would work really well on TV."
  created: '2010-02-08 17:58:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good points. Which is why I like moderate\r\ncontrast and no calligraphy
    (in a text face).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 18:01:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I own Formata on floppy disk from the '80s
  created: '2010-02-08 19:09:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: GG Lange's Imago is Univers with more contrast.
  created: '2010-02-08 22:14:41'
- author:
    name: Martin Majoor
    picture: 109645
  body: "> Why would you look only at printing types?\r\n\r\nWe are now in the Sabon
    Sans thread, so I think we are talking about printing types (and especially about
    serif/sans combinations). A discussion about the first sans is something else.\r\n\r\nI
    did not say that you cannot design a sans serif without starting with a serifed
    typeface as a basis. There are plenty of examples of good stand-alone sans serifs,
    \ I myself made Telefont (a sans) without first having designed a serifed typeface.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I \xE1m talking about is that when you design a serif/sans family it is quite
    illogical to start with the sans. If you have made a sans and later realize you
    want to add a serifed design (e.g. Meta, Syntax) this is something else, but in
    the end the two versions are probably further drifted apart from each other than
    when you start with a serif. \r\n\r\nThere are not only historical reasons to
    start with the serif, but of course everybody is free to determine the starting
    point. Starting with a sans is illogical but not impossible (Meta, Syntax), starting
    with both serif and sans makes more sense (Stone Serif and Stone Sans), starting
    with a serif is the most logical way (see Romulus, Sabon, maybe Syntax, Lucida,
    Legacy, Scala, Quadraat, Eureka etc.).\r\n\r\nBy the way I am still curious to
    know if anybody can tell me what the examples were that the punchcutters used
    to cut the first sanses around 1850?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 00:51:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>By the way I am still curious to know if anybody can tell me what the
    examples were that the punchcutters used to cut the first sanses around 1850?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t think that anyone knows for sure. The two notions that come up most
    often are that the British punchcutters were cutting serifs off of their Antiques
    and that the Germans modeled their designs on Walbaum\u2019s types. Both notions
    sound plausible, but nobody seems to have turned up notes or drawings from an
    old foundry to confirm either one."
  created: '2010-02-09 01:05:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the examples were that the punchcutters used to cut the first sanses around
    1850?\r\n\r\nJames Mosley has documented that sans were stone carved and painted
    for thirty years before the first printers' sans, which was in 1816. [[http://typefoundry.blogspot.com/2007/01/nymph-and-grot-update.html|Here
    is his update to his essay on the subject.]] "
  created: '2010-02-09 01:10:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "IIRC they took Egyptians and removed the serifs.\r\nHowever, even if one
    believes* that type can be\r\nconsidering without considering the much older\r\ncraft
    of lettering, there's no reason to think that\r\nwe must mimic those first efforts.\r\n\r\n*
    I don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 01:21:39'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "<cite>Joe Clark: I think Formata is not too far away from the original theme
    of this thread. I think Formata is due for a revival, actually.</cite>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/berthold/signata-bq/\">Signata</a> is a follow-up
    of Formata."
  created: '2010-02-09 07:55:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps you meant to say Imago is like Univers, not Formata?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/imago_5347.png]"
  created: '2010-02-09 15:19:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't believe the first sans types were \"chop off the serifs\" jobs.\r\nThe
    designers' premise was to find the best shape for letters that conformed to the
    concept of a simple, monolinear typeface.\r\nOf course, they didn't stray too
    far from the norm of serif letterforms at the time, so the centre crossbar of
    E was short, and G looked too much like C.\r\n\r\nBut their working process was
    probably a lot like ours -- to experiment with individual glyph shapes and find
    a way to make all the letters work together.\r\n\r\nThat experimentation is apparent
    if one compares two different sizes of the Figgins face shown in their 1837 specimen
    (detail below).\r\nThe designer is investigating both geometric forms and what
    would subsequently become the grotesque. So R in different sizes has \r\na straight
    leg or a curved leg. O is geometric and lacks contrast, which is not the case
    for N. And so on.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Figgins_1837_4297.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 17:18:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm seeing here in this Miller & Richard specimen book of 1902 a high-contrast
    sans called \"old style grotesque,\" which by name would appear to be, in concept,
    a sans patterned after serif faces. But the effect of it is more geometric than
    Sabon sample above; it looks a bit like a forerunner of the Deco approaches like
    Broadway/Peignot. \r\n\r\nStephenson, Blake also in the 19th c. offered an \"old
    style grotesque,\" but that was a much more stylized display face."
  created: '2010-02-10 18:35:49'
date: '2010-02-02 07:41:17'
title: Sabon Sans

---
