---
author:
  name: josefrichter
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nis anywhere a table showing which foundry supports and allows which
  webfont technology? I couldn't really find anything close to what I mean, so I put
  together quickly this draft: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Pepa007/Foundries_allowing_web_fonts\r\n\r\nIs
  there something like this already? Or should I publish it and kindly ask you to
  help me with adding more foundries?\r\n\r\nThank you\r\n\r\nJosef"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/57934
  created: '2010-02-03 01:16:36'
- author:
    name: josefrichter
  body: yeah, I've seen this one. Just want to turn it into nice tabular form so that
    it's easy to find your way ;-)
  created: '2010-02-03 03:22:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@josefrichter\r\n\r\nRalff Herrmann keeps a list at www.webfonts.info/wiki/.
    You might want to connect with him. He's the only one I'm aware of who's been
    at all systematic about it.\r\n\r\nJust a note of caution however - there are
    so many different flavors of licenses it's tough to know which foundries allow
    what.\r\n\r\nI, for one, appreciate your efforts, though.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>"
  created: '2010-02-03 15:45:41'
- author:
    name: josefrichter
  body: "Richard. Exactly because of various EULAs, I'd like to have a kind of definitive
    guide (althoug it will never be \"definitive\").\r\n\r\nI've contacted some foundries
    with direct question whether I can use their typeface e.g. for Cuf\xF3n and got
    direct yes/no answer - so just wanted to record their answers and share them with
    others. I can imagine people repeatedly ask foundries these questions, so this
    wiki could be a starting point. "
  created: '2010-02-03 17:27:59'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Great idea, Josef. I went through Ralff's page few months ago and I found
    it to be quite light on information, so I ended up emailing a handful of foundries
    and individual type designers asking about Cufon licensing. \r\n\r\nI don't remember
    the exact list, but Exljbris, Darden Studio, Process Type Foundry, Paragraph,
    H&FJ, Dalton-Maag, Linotype and Wilton Type Foundry were on it. Note that I was
    asking only what the licensing conditions for the Cufon use would be, and not
    with sIFR or other options.\r\n\r\nProcess and H&FJ were a no-go. Or rather like
    \"La-la-la... we can't hear you... strictly forbidden, STRICTLY !\".\r\n\r\nParagraph,
    Wilton were a no-go as well, but said they were \"considering it\".\r\n\r\nExljbris
    and Darden Studio are OK with no additional strings attached.\r\n\r\nDalton-Maag
    are OK, but you need to ask for it explicitly. Their existing license does not
    allow for Cufon, and there are additional requirements for high-traffic websites.\r\n\r\nLinotype
    <em>appears</em> to be OK, but requires an additional paid license. I had a really
    odd conversation with their support, which is in fact still ongoing. In first
    reply they merely said \"we offer web licenses which offer this usage\", \"this\"
    referring to Cufon. That's it. And asked for a mailing (!) address to send me
    an invoice. No mention of the fees, restrictions, etc. I replied asking for a
    balpark estimate of fees, and they replied that they needed to know the exact
    typeface and asked for mailing address again... you guessed it... for an invoice.
    I really don't know what is wrong with them.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAnother interesting
    list to build would be the typefaces seen used with sIFR/Cufon/FLIRin the wild,
    on high-profile and presumably properly licensed websites. I know I've seen Avenir,
    Gotham (!) and Akkurat.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nLastly, can I ask why you have FLIR listed
    as No in several lines in your table? How the heck can it be prohibited if the
    font use by the FLIR's server component falls squarely under a typical EULA?"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:23:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">How the heck can it be prohibited if the font use by the FLIR's server component
    falls squarely under a typical EULA?\r\n\r\nNot sure I fully understand what FLIR
    is. Looks like fonts are installed on a server. A Typical EULA allows 5 users.
    That seems a little limited if you view each Web page visitor a user. Most EULAs
    have been rev'd to limit this type of thing, and many vendors offer server licenses.\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2010-02-04 06:26:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I\u2019m not trying to hijack the thread, just jumping in because I keep
    ending up on lists of foundries that allow @font-face use. Dunwich Type Founders
    (aka me) no longer allows embedding/linking in the standard EULA. Instead I am
    moving entirely to service-based web fonts. My feelings about web fonts, formats,
    and standards have not changed. I just could not come up with a license/pricing
    scheme that I felt made sense and worked for fonts sold in standard 1-5 user packs
    through third party vendors."
  created: '2010-02-04 06:29:22'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "><em>Not sure I fully understand what FLIR is. Looks like fonts are installed
    on a server. A Typical EULA allows 5 users. That seems a little limited if you
    view each Web page visitor a user.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are forgetting that every image
    returned by FLIR server at client's request needs to be rendered only once and
    then it can be served from the server-side image cache. Under this arrangement
    even a 1 user limit is quite practical. The only requirement is to ensure that
    no more than 5 images are <em>rendered</em> at the same time, which is trivial
    to do and not limiting at all.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:36:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Sorry not convinced. I''m certain most EULAs have been rev''d to prohibit
    exploitation of this kind of server-side loophole. There are clauses about location,
    transfers etc, and they count total (including remote) users, not concurrent users. '
  created: '2010-02-04 07:19:12'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Sorry, I don't follow. \r\n\r\nTo elaborate - I buy a one-seat license, I
    take the .otf and stick it on a server (assuming I have one, or I buy a five-seat
    license and copy .otf to five servers), then I start one process and make it service
    trivial FIFO queue of rendering requests from the web server. That's it. Unless
    there is a licensing clause that prohibits this specific setup, I am well within
    licensing requirements. The font file is never used by more than one CPU at any
    given moment.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 07:28:17'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Typodermic web embedding <a href="http://www.typodermic.com/embedding.html">info</a>.
    @font-face licenses available at <a href="http://www.fontspring.com/foundry/typodermic">FontSpring</a>
    or through <a href="http://typekit.com">Typekit</a>. Cufon & SIFR are fine with
    the regular EULA.
  created: '2010-02-04 07:38:35'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> I take the .otf and stick it on a server ...\r\nUnless there is a
    licensing clause that prohibits this specific setup \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    A remote \"server\" use is almost always prohibited."
  created: '2010-02-04 09:13:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I went through Ralff's page few months ago and I found it to be quite
    light on information</cite>\r\n\r\nAnyone is invited to add content to the page.
    I just set it up to push webfonts in general. I have no personal or commercial
    interest to consider this \"my page\". "
  created: '2010-02-04 12:01:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "RE: FLIR\r\n\r\nSo, if I take the font and make a photoshop image and post
    that on a web server, that's OK.\r\nBut if I stick the font on a server and let
    PHP do what I would normally have to do manually in photoshop, that's not OK.\r\n\r\nThat
    it?"
  created: '2010-02-04 17:42:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I imagine most EULAs either already prohibit FLIR, or will soon, as it amounts
    to creating an electronic device with the font embedded in it for the purpose
    of generating text dynamically, which is a quite a bit different than typesetting
    a images manually in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nWeb designers and programmers need to get
    it through their heads that if they want web fonts to work they need to actually
    work with font designers and pay for appropriate licenses instead of spending
    so much time looking for loopholes."
  created: '2010-02-04 18:10:34'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Web designers and programmers need to get it through their heads that
    if they want web fonts to work they need to actually work with font designers
    and pay for appropriate licenses instead of spending so much time looking for
    loopholes.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you elaborate what you mean by \"work with font designers\"
    exactly and why existing fees are suddenly not \"appropriate\"?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 19:29:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can you elaborate what you mean by \"work with font designers\" exactly\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    means developing and using technology that works with licensing that font designers
    find acceptable instead of cooking up hacks designed to exploit perceived loopholes
    in licensing.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026and why existing fees are suddenly not \"appropriate\"?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    they are my fonts any I want more money. \r\n\r\nDesigners are not entitled to
    cheap fonts any more than they are to stock art, web hosting, software, etc..
    Paying for the materials used in commercial work is not a new concept. Designers
    have literally been doing this for thousands of years. Your client is making money
    off their site. You are making money by creating the site. I should be able to
    make money when my work gets used in the site. There is no reason a professional
    web designer/developer charging a hefty hourly fee cannot license a font and pass
    that cost on to the client so that the designer who created the font can afford
    to eat. Instead of wasting your time trying to cook up the web font systems that
    do not require any spending just buy a license and charge it to the client with
    a markup or a time charge; <em>just like you would do for every other aspect of
    your job.</em>"
  created: '2010-02-04 19:59:05'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Jeez, have you got one too many espresso shots this morning? This is not
    about \"loopholes in licensing\". \r\n\r\nThe state of affairs is that I pay $40
    per weight, get the font, render an image in Photoshop and stick it on a website.
    I assume you do not have a problem with this.\r\n\r\nFLIR does the exact same
    thing. It does not add any value to the website, it does not generate more money
    to the site's owner. All it does is it simplifies the life of a web designer.
    And not by much mind you, it saves may be... what?... 2 hours of work. If that.\r\n\r\nThe
    designer is not sitting there and thinking how to <em>pay</em> less. He is thinking
    how to <em>do</em> less. That's what FLIR & Co. are about.\r\n\r\nI doubt many
    designers are cheap enough to be against web-only licensing. The biggest issue
    at the moment is that @font-face is not quite there yet. Its rendering quality
    varies too greatly between the browsers and OSes to be satisfactory. That's one.
    Hosted solutions like TypeKit are not a feasible option in many cases, because
    they create external dependencies. That's two. All this is going to be sorted
    out, but it will take time. \r\n\r\nMeanwhile \"hacks\" are the practical option.
    They work, and they work well. If you feel like charging a fee to allow FLIR/Cufon/etc
    usage - do it then, but I personally feel it is unreasonable."
  created: '2010-02-04 20:47:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>FLIR does the exact same thing. It does not add any value to the website,
    it does not generate more money to the site's owner. All it does is it simplifies
    the life of a web designer. And not by much mind you, it saves may be... what?...
    2 hours of work. If that.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not the same thing. It\u2019s
    you building a machine that does the same thing, over and over, much faster than
    you could ever hope to. And if it saves you two hours of work, that\u2019s two
    hours you\u2019re using to work on something else. There\u2019s money involved.
    And if my font is part of it, I want my cut. "
  created: '2010-02-04 21:01:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Something else I want to point out here is the power of something like FLIR
    to be applied to numerous web sites. In the case of an individual user and a single
    site, you\u2019re right in that it\u2019s not really big deal. In fact, the way
    I license type as of today, I would make more money selling you that FLIR server
    license than I would selling you a single domain @font-face license. \r\n\r\nBut
    you aren\u2019t the guy who makes it a problem. The problem is that at some point
    someone who hosts 1,000 web sites on one big server realizes that he can install
    my fonts, and FLIR or SiFR, and make it available to all 1,000 web sites at no
    additional charge. Suddenly I\u2019m missing out on a lot of licensing fees no
    matter how it works out. And maybe it makes more sense for me to write a provision
    into my EULA that allows something like FLIR or SiFR when limited to single domains.
    But if I have to tweak my EULA for everything like this that come along, I end
    up with a big ugly hydra of a EULA. Or I have to just stop using resellers and
    make all these different options available in an online store. Right now I\u2019m
    inclined to just keep things real simple and tell people to buy an @font-face
    license. "
  created: '2010-02-04 21:21:31'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>It\u2019s you building a machine that does the same thing, over and
    over, much faster than you could ever hope to.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is not doing it
    over and over again. It renders every image exactly once, when it is first requested;
    and not once per client request.\r\n\r\n> <em>And if my font is part of it, I
    want my cut.</em>\r\n\r\nBy all means. I just think that the expectation is that
    it should be included in a standard licensing fee.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nJust try and
    understand where all these \"hack\" technologies came from. Think 6-9-12 months
    back from today.\r\n\r\nDesigner buys the font, it uses it to set a handful of
    headers on a website. Then he wants to use it more widely, say, for subheaders
    and blog entry titles or something like that. So he emails the foundry and asks
    what it would take to use their typeface in an online context. The standard reply
    is \"NOOOOOOO\", a more contemporary response is \"we are thinking about it\"
    as in \"check back in a year\". \r\n\r\nDesigner still wants to use the font,
    but he is also respectful of the type designers (remember how he actually <em>bought</em>
    it and he <em>asked</em> for a web license ?). He understands that foundries are
    afraid of the Internet and their fonts leaking onto it in their native formats.
    So he sits down and considers his options. \r\n\r\nFirst is to render on the server
    (best option really, the font file stays private, the file usage is tightly controlled
    and falls under simultaneous usage restrictions), second is to render on the client,
    but with the font data obscured, stripped down or made unfit for copying in some
    other way.  Former translates to FLIR, latter - to Cufon. \r\n\r\nNote how the
    driving factor here is the conservatism and rigidness of the foundries and nothing
    else. There is exactly one type of license available to the designer and he is
    forced to get creative within its confines. It has very little to do with unwillingness
    to pay more money to the foundry, and far more with foundry's own lack of interest
    in collecting these money."
  created: '2010-02-04 22:11:21'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Where is the font typically stored for FLIR? Can someone poke around for whatever.com/fonts/fontname.ttf
    or is it in a folder people can't typically get at? I'm wondering if I have to
    specify that it's put in a protected folder in the EULA. Is the font's path visible
    in the page source or style sheet?
  created: '2010-02-05 01:02:09'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>I'm wondering if I have to specify that it's put in a protected folder
    in the EULA.</em>\r\n\r\nIt won't hurt to specify that. Something like \"ensure
    that font files are not accessible from the web\" or \"do not reside in a public
    web server tree\". The font's path is not a part of the page or a style sheet,
    don't worry about it."
  created: '2010-02-05 06:22:44'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I read the quick start guide, watched the video. I can't figure out where
    the font ends up. Where does the font actually go? It it obfuscated or is it a
    desktop installable font? Even if someone could set it up so it's in a specific
    protected folder it's the default that matters. Where exactly does the font end
    up when the average FLIR users set this up with the default "quickstart" settings?
  created: '2010-02-05 06:59:55'
- author:
    name: josefrichter
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nThe final version of the table has moved to http://webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=Web_fonts_licensing_overview\r\n\r\nRemeber
    it's a wiki - so please feel free to add the info about other foundries - but
    only if you are 100% sure about it, because e.g. it's explicitely stated on their
    web or in their EULA.\r\n\r\nAlso, if you are a foundry, it would be great if
    you could publish a statement on these technologies on your web, just like Type
    Together did over here http://www.type-together.com/index.php?action=portal/viewContent&cntId_content=2814&id_section=165
    I understand that the table is somewhat tricky, because it may tempt people to
    skip reading the EULA carefully, so this might be a solution.\r\n\r\nThanks everyone\r\n\r\nJosef
    Richter"
  created: '2010-02-06 09:22:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@apankrat: You seem to be taking the view that anything not explicitly forbidden
    by a license is permitted. Many EULAs I've read seem to be written that the licensor
    is permitted to only use the font in the specific ways enumerated in the license;
    that is, anything not explicitly permitted is forbidden.\r\n\r\nNot that I'm a
    lawyer, of course.\r\n\r\nBut in any case, many EULAs will doubtless be revised
    within the next several years to deal with web fonts and other forms of server-based
    usage.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-07 05:12:06'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I've been looking into FLIR. It violates <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/license.html\">my
    EULA</a> and probably most others.\r\n\r\n\"You may not provide the font or make
    it accessible to any other third parties.\"\r\n\r\nFLIR, by default has fonts
    in a subfolder called \"fonts\". It wouldn't take much imagination to go to a
    site that used FLIR, figure out the font names and take a few guesses at the filename.
    If your first guess is whatever.com/fonts/fontname.ttf you've got a font. So,
    until by default, the fonts are protected from direct downloading, I'm recommending
    not allowing FLIR use. Perhaps users could use set up a protected folder or something
    but unless it's done by default in FLIR, I'll assume that few people will.\r\n\r\nAnother
    problem with FLIR is that it's easy to copy a line from the page source render
    the font to another site. Let's say you find a site that's using a font you like.
    You can have that site render headlines for your own site. It's not a nice thing
    to do and it's a drain on the host site's CPU and bandwidth but it can be done.\r\n\r\nI'm
    saying no to FLIR unless they can fix both of these concerns. As it is now, it's
    just as insecure as bare @font-face linking."
  created: '2010-02-08 04:12:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: The Nancy Reagan approach.
  created: '2010-02-08 05:31:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Nancy Reagan didn't solve anything with words.\r\n\r\nAnd her husband did
    little with the military industrial complex.\r\n\r\nUltimately, both extremes
    are a bit silly. Just saying 'don't steal fonts' and assume no one will is as
    naive as believing there is some magic technology that prohibits the copying of
    data (which is pretty much what the web does by design). \r\n\r\nWe'll find a
    middle ground sooner or later. "
  created: '2010-02-08 05:43:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: What are you even talking about? New font embedding technologies need to make
    a little effort to try an protect the fonts from direct URL downloading. I'm supposed
    to get behind every half-baked font embedding scheme that gets slapped together?
  created: '2010-02-08 06:57:57'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Apankrat, we're not humming with our fingers in our ears, and we do hear
    you, but that still might not mean we can give you everything you want. H&FJ's
    currently position with respect to fonts online, and image-replacement technologies,
    is here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/ask/faq.php?faqID=15#Faq_15\r\n\r\nI
    should stress that this policy is under constant review, and that as you know
    this is an especially dynamic time with respect to fonts in browsers, so please
    continue to check back."
  created: '2010-02-08 13:50:35'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Ray, I''m not saying you can or should get behind any particular font embedding
    scheme. I''m just pointing out that none of the current schemes really will prevent
    font piracy. '
  created: '2010-02-08 15:15:22'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "There's a column on that chart for endorsing WOFF that is incomplete. Here's
    the mozilla press release with the list of foundries who have come out in support
    of WOFF:\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.mozilla.com/blog/2009/10/20/mozilla-supports-web-open-font-format/"
  created: '2010-02-08 16:42:08'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "@hoefler: With all due respect, from the page you linked to:\r\n\r\n<em>If
    you are exploring other technologies that aren't covered here, please contact
    us at info@typography.com.</em>\r\n\r\nwhich is what I did and here is what I
    got back:\r\n\r\n<em>Dear Alex\r\nThank you for your inquiry regarding Cufon and
    H&FJ's fonts. This application is specifically prohibited from our licensing agreement
    at this time.</em>\r\n\r\nand a link pointing me back to the FAQ page. Barely
    three lines if that. This does not sound like you \"hear me\". Especially considering
    that I also asked another question in the same email that was just plainly ignored."
  created: '2010-02-08 17:19:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\n<em>I'm supposed to get behind every half-baked font embedding
    scheme that gets slapped together?</em>\r\n\r\nNot saying that. (Actually I was
    just testing to see if you knew what Nancy Reagan's famous tagline was.) ;)\r\n\r\nWhat
    I would like you and every font designer to do is try to see things from the point
    of view of the guy on the other side of the \"Buy Now\" button.\r\nHe's got a
    job to do. You can either let him do it without FUD or not.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    the license on the new <a href=\"http://fontspring.com\">Fontspring</a> site allows
    @font-face linking but not Cuf&oacute;n. This is nuts. In many instances, Cuf&oacute;n
    is a perfect fallback for platforms and user agents that don't support @font-face.
    It's particularly adept with headings and logotype.\r\nThe JavaScript data in
    the Cuf&oacute;n file with the font outlines is, if anything, far more secure
    than the linked font file. (In that it doesn't have its own URL, and reconstituting
    it back into anything resembling an installable font is beyond the capabilities
    of anyone but an expert. Certainly not worth the time.)\r\n\r\nbut anyway, that
    said, I find all this, right now, a little beside the point. I don't know how
    anybody looking to buy a font for web use can do so unless they're shown an in-browser
    \ specimen sheet that allows them to accurately assess the look and overall behavior
    of the font. (Tracking, kerning, etc, at each pixel size.)\r\nI have yet to see
    that and Fontspring's in-browser specimens miss that mark, too.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>"
  created: '2010-02-08 17:51:49'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "My embedding scheme requirements aren't that demanding, are they? I don't
    need fancy(pants) anti-piracy schemes. I know people can extract my fonts if they
    really want them or get them through other means. All I ask is that people aren't
    able to <em>directly link</em> to a perfect, installable copy of a font with no
    EULA.\r\n\r\nSo FLIR is out. How's WOFF for security? Can users directly download
    from an URL? If so what use is the font once they've snagged it? Can they use
    it on their own site?\r\n\r\nDo you think there's anything else I need to cover
    on the Typodermic Fonts <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/embedding.html\">embedding</a>
    page?"
  created: '2010-02-09 01:59:32'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The JavaScript data in the Cuf\xF3n file with the font outlines is,
    if anything, far more secure than the linked font file. </cite>\r\n\r\nAs far
    as I understand it from looking at the Fontspring website, the linked fonts are
    splitted or otherwise modified, so they can't be downloaded and installed on other
    computers. \r\nI wouln't support Cufon either. Simply because @font-face is the
    future and Cufon just an awkward JavaScript hack. "
  created: '2010-02-09 07:53:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite> How's WOFF for security?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's got a different wrapper,
    so a WOFF font isn't directly usable as a desktop font without first being converted.\r\n\r\nIt
    also has some optional metadata fields so people can spell out what is okay to
    do with the font. But there's nothing that actually stops somebody else from just
    re-using the same WOFF font somewhere else; the spec specifically says no user
    agent is required to do anything differently baesd on metadata, it's purely informative.
    Informational, but not enforecement.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-09 08:27:44'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<cite>Cufon is just an awkward JavaScript hack.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere may be
    cases where that's exactly what's needed; supporting older or low tech browsers
    . . . or a use you haven't thought of. Is your dislike of Cufon really a good
    reason to tell a customer \"no you can't use my font for that\"? There's a difference
    between not recommending Cufon and forbidding people from using it.\r\n\r\nI'll
    let the users determine whether or not a particular embedding scheme should live
    or die. Cufon doesn't put my fonts at any more risk than EOT did so it stays.\r\n\r\nAs
    long as my \"not directly linkable\" requirement is met they can create a new
    web embedding scheme every week. Bring 'em on.\r\n\r\nBut the remote rendering
    aspect of FLIR concerns me. Even if someone doesn't take a copy of the font, they
    can have another server render the data and send it to their site. AS far as I
    know it's the only embedding scheme with that particular problem.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 08:47:23'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: "\"I imagine most EULAs either already prohibit FLIR, or will soon, as it
    amounts to creating an electronic device with the font embedded in it for the
    purpose of generating text dynamically, which is a quite a bit different than
    typesetting a images manually in Photoshop.\"\r\n\r\nThis is why real-world designers
    and web developers couldn't care less what EULAs say. They don't have time for
    this kind of nitpicking type designers seem to be obsessed with."
  created: '2010-02-09 12:22:31'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>As far as I understand it from looking at the Fontspring website, the
    linked fonts are splitted or otherwise modified, so they can't be downloaded and
    installed on other computers.</cite>\r\n\r\nI talked with Ethan at Fontspring
    about their security last week. They cut the character set down to Mac Roman and
    then split them into two files. They also rename the fonts with random numbers."
  created: '2010-02-09 13:44:15'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: ' . . . and strip the OT features.'
  created: '2010-02-09 14:44:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\nA lot of <a href=\"http://fontspring.com\">Fontspring</a>
    grew out of and was predicted by my article <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/an-open-letter-to-retail-font-vendors/\"><strong>An
    Open Letter To Retail Font Vendors</strong></a>. Right down to the obfuscated
    specimen pages.\r\n(I know this also because Ethan Dunham told me so, essentially.
    And I've actually gotten emails from others assuming I'm involved with the site!)\r\nFontspring
    is a first generation peek into the future of retail fonts on and for the web.
    I've got quibbles about presentation, but the raw materials are all there.\r\n\r\nSome
    thoughts:\r\n\r\n<em>But the remote rendering aspect of FLIR concerns me.</em>\r\n\r\nOn
    FLIR:\r\n\r\n1) I believe it can be set up so the font file is *not* exposed.
    In fact, that's my impression of how it's usually done. The font file is protected
    from calls outside the server. Invisible to the outside. I'm a lot busy right
    now, but I'll look soon and get a definitive answer. It's all open source. Anybody
    else have that info?\r\n2) FLIR looks too good to be true and so it mostly isn't.
    Text-as-images are almost always static content. There's no point in having the
    server thrash around creating text-as-images on the fly. It's too costly and,
    except in special circumstances, plain dumb. The technology's been around quite
    awhile now without a massive outbreak of sites designed with FLIR. And there won't
    be. But it *is* yet another fallback mechanism and there's too few tools available
    to summarily dismiss any of them.\r\n\r\nBottom line: I would permit FLIR under
    the condition that the font files are inaccessible. Or, as you put it, \"not directly
    linkable\". No URL to bring it to you on a silver platter. (Since they're installable
    TTFs and OTFs and that's the big bugaboo.)\r\n\r\n<em>I'll let the users determine
    whether or not a particular embedding scheme should live or die. Cufon doesn't
    put my fonts at any more risk than EOT did so it stays.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    I understand Ralf's point but I don't think EULA's are about telling customers
    what's a good web design practice and what isn't.\r\n\r\nLastly, as John Hudson
    suggested on another thread, I would seriously consider re-naming fonts being
    offered for use with @font-face with a suffix of some kind. \"Web\" or \"Screen\"
    or somesuch to carve them out and away from those fonts designed and marketed
    for print. Good for consumers, good for type designers, too, I think.\r\nSeparate
    (yet related) products for separate purposes.\r\n\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 15:23:57'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>1) I believe it can be set up so the font file is *not* exposed. In fact,
    that's my impression of how it's usually done. The font file is protected from
    calls outside the server. [snip] Anybody else have that info?</em>\r\n\r\nOf course
    it is doable. It is a one-line change even if there is no corresponding <em>configuration</em>
    setting. If FLIR requires fonts to sit in a website document tree, that's just
    sloppy implementation on their side, and not a fundamental FLIR requirement.\r\n\r\n<em>There's
    no point in having the server thrash around creating text-as-images on the fly.
    It's too costly and, except in special circumstances, plain dumb.</em>\r\n\r\nCaching,
    Richard. Server-side image caching :-) Do not re-generate what has been generated
    already, just serve it from the image cache."
  created: '2010-02-09 16:44:54'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "Just a couple quick notes:\r\n\r\nWe allow most forms of embedding \u2013
    if not with our \"regular\" fonts then certainly with our \"WEB\" versions. [[http://www.motaitalic.com/info/legal/web-fonts-embedding|You
    can see a bit of info about this all here.]] We will be publishing more on this
    and our WEB fonts in just a couple weeks...\r\n\r\nAlso, since it hasn't been
    mentioned here yet, I will remind people of [[http://typegirl.tumblr.com/post/142912558/most-of-the-important-foundries-are-supporting-webfont|Tiffany's
    tumblr page]] of foundries supporting woff (it is more extensive than [[http://blog.mozilla.com/blog/2009/10/20/mozilla-supports-web-open-font-format/|Mozilla's]])\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nRob"
  created: '2010-02-09 21:35:40'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@apankrat, it's definitely not how it's usually done.\r\n\r\nI checked out
    a bunch of sites in the FLIR forum's <a href=\"http://forums.mawhorter.net/viewforum.php?id=15\">showcase</a>
    section. I won't say exactly what I did but with many sites I was easily able
    to download the default fonts which are included with FLIR. At almost every site
    I was able to download the README.txt file from the fonts folder. That means I'd
    be able to download specific fonts if I could guess the correct filename.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I still don't know is: is it possible to read the config-flir.php file to figure
    out the font file name? I tried my own test and I wasn't able to get at the contents
    of my own php file. I don't need to know how to do it, but is reading the contents
    of a php, if you know the path and filename from someone else's site a really
    involved thing or it is kind of hard core? I really have no idea.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I'm probably going to do is allow the modified @font-face Fontspring versions
    to be used with FLIR. That way they'll at least have random filenames. But if
    the php file can be read, then it'd be easy to figure out the path to the font
    anyway.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 05:52:29'
- author:
    name: corymawhorter
  body: "Hello everyone.  A friend pointed me to this thread because you are discussing
    FLIR pretty heavily here, and being the author of FLIR, I wanted to chime in.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    @typodermic\r\n<em>I checked out a bunch of sites in the FLIR forum's showcase
    section. I won't say exactly what I did but with many sites I was easily able
    to download the default fonts which are included with FLIR.</em>\r\n\r\nThe fonts
    can be placed anywhere on your server (including outside of the web root).   This
    is a single line change in the config.  The only reason you were able to download
    these fonts is because you already knew they existed (and knew the filenames).
    \ These fonts are *NOT* the fonts the user uploaded themselves with their folder.
    \ Just to clear this up, you were not able to get a directory listing of all the
    fonts that a user has uploaded unless the server was configured to ignore index.html.
    \ \r\n\r\nTo say this a different way, if I uploaded my-font289.otf to my fonts
    directory (in my web root), you would have to be able to guess that the file is
    named my-font289.otf in order to be able to download it.\r\n\r\nAccess to this
    folder can also be limited with .htaccess which I will be including in a future
    release for those that don't have the skill set to move the folder outside their
    web root or write their own.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\n@All the foundries and typeface
    designers out there, in this thread and beyond:\r\n\r\nI apologize in advance.
    Some may consider this off-topic from the OP, but I figured this was as good a
    place as any to speak directly to you guys.  If any mod as a problem, feel free
    to fork it onto a new thread.  (Also, please ignore any ramblings or things that
    don't make sense, I've been up all night working on some random thing ;] )\r\n\r\nWith
    the development of font-face, I thought that we, as a community of web and typeface
    designers, were finally on our way to getting this whole mess of web fonts settled.
    \ After reading this thread, it is obvious that I was wrong, and that is what
    prompted me to write this.\r\n\r\nSo let's call this my personal plea to you.
    \ \r\n\r\nI'm not a web browser manufacturer or anyone else all that important.
    \ I've only made a script that I found useful, and then gave it to other people
    to use.  I'm really just someone who wants to be able to use your products.  I
    need to use your products.  I like your products.  And I am willing purchase what
    you are selling, if only you would sell it to me.\r\n\r\nPlease, please get rid
    of these costly \"font-face\" and \"embedding\" licenses.  I am on me hands and
    knees begging you to stop demanding all sorts of pointless encryption schemes
    that only serve to make using your artwork more difficult.  \r\n\r\nThe web is
    not your enemy. It is an ENORMOUS new market for you to break into. Sure, your
    font will get downloaded by some college kid somewhere and used on their flyer,
    or maybe it would even be outright pirated by greedy people for personal gain.
    \ There is no way to prevent this from happening even now.\r\n\r\nJust like the
    music, movie, stock photography, and book industries (and many others) have already
    found out:  \r\n\r\nThe web is scary at first -- it is different -- it might even
    require a change to the way things are done.  But, as these industries have already
    demonstrated, it can become very profitable once the fighting stops and the leap
    is finally made.  The same mistake being made in the typeface industry has already
    been made by so many other industries -- looking at a pirated font file as a lost
    sale.  This is not the case.  That person who is stealing your font file probably
    wouldn't have paid for it in the first place and in trying to keep them from doing
    so is being done to the detriment of countless potential customers.  \r\n\r\nI
    want to keep this short (I've already failed), so just to summarize: Let us (web
    designers and developers), have easy access to buy and implement fonts -- at the
    same price as we would otherwise pay to purchase and Photoshop all the headers
    on our sites.  Let us have this ability and we will use it.  I promise you, we
    will in numbers that will make you -- and your industry -- very happy. \r\n\r\nPlease
    stop fighting us.  We are not your enemy.  We would like to be your customer.\r\n\r\nI
    welcome any kind of comments to my email -- cory.mawhorter@ephective.com -- and
    would be happy to discuss the subject with any foundries or anyone else.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 14:38:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I\u2019m not really sure what to make of this post. It\u2019s kind of like
    writing a letter to the SciFi channel asking them not to cancel Battlestar Galactica.
    The war is over. The browser makers and the font makers have voted, and in five
    or six years we will hopefully see the majority of installed browsers supporting
    WOFF. Between now and then there will be interim solutions, best served by folks
    like Typekit who provide \u201Cfonts as a service\u201D rather than the random,
    often hack-like, solutions currently being promoted. As to font pricing and web
    specific licenses, I don\u2019t think any level of pleading from web designers
    (or the companies, large and small who will end up paying for the font licenses)
    will really make much difference \u2013 the market will decide. "
  created: '2010-02-10 17:00:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think any level of pleading from web designers (or the companies,
    large and small who will end up paying for the font licenses) will really make
    much difference \u2013 the market will decide.\"\r\n\r\nAren't the web designers
    'the market'?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 18:32:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Yes. I guess I should have said "free market" = supply and demand, availability
    of open source/clone alternatives, that sort of thing. '
  created: '2010-02-10 18:48:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The reason this and other posts like it show up here on Typophile, is because
    of the false impression given by the actual slow-foots, to the general public
    and including the web designing public, that it is \"The Foundries\" resisting
    this, that or the other thing regarding web fonts, and that, hilariously, this
    Foundry resistance, is why web fonts are taking so long to be perfect, plentiful
    and free. As things become rendered more clearly on this issue, I hope these posts
    go away.  \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 20:36:49'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>..and free. As things become rendered more clearly on this issue, I hope
    these posts go away.</em>\r\n\r\nYou lost me at \"free\"."
  created: '2010-02-10 23:10:19'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Me too. In fact that sounds like legal forms embedded in a poem. It do not
    think that is so cool. But here you go.
  created: '2010-02-10 23:18:48'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "We should not fight these people, but find a common ground.\r\n\r\nHey, I'm
    happy with you, even though you never took any of my fonts. And my fonts eat your
    earnings as well."
  created: '2010-02-10 23:25:23'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<cite>The only reason you were able to download these fonts is because you
    already knew they existed (and knew the filenames).</cite>\r\n\r\nIt didn't take
    a lot of figuring out. If someone can identify a font, they don't need to take
    a lot of guesses to figure out the filename. For example: I sell a font called
    Soap. Not surprisingly, it's either soap.otf or soap.ttf. Just about every site
    I checked kept their fonts in a rather obviously named subfolder. The quickstart
    guide doesn't recommend that the fonts be kept out the the HTML tree. Almost everyone
    called the main folder somethign very obvious . . . I did too when I was testing.
    Regardless, the parent to the fonder containing the fonts is plainly shown in
    the page source as well. As for the sub-subfolder, I could only find one site
    that didn't use the default folder name. Yes, someone could add their own security
    but most people do the default . . . apparently.\r\n\r\nMy embedding/linking requirement
    is that fonts can't easily be downloaded from a URL. It's not that crazy of a
    requirement. FLIR qualifies as \"easily\" because I tried it and it was very easy.
    I'm not technically adept . . . it took me an hour and a half just to install
    FLIR, but it only took seconds to figure out the folder path.\r\n\r\nIt's not
    just a matter of people taking the font for free. There are lots of ways to do
    that. It's having honest site owners, installing FLIR and unknowingly posting
    fonts which can be directly downloaded with an easily guessed URL.\r\n\r\nAll
    it really takes is a few spare minutes correct guess at a font file name. Not
    only do you get a free font but you also get an URL you can share or even remotely
    @font-face link to. All because the creator of said embedding scheme didn't consider
    adding any security whatsoever.\r\n\r\nOne of Fontspring's services is to generate
    @font-face ready typefaces which, among a few other things generates a random
    filename. I tested one of my fonts which had been run through Fontspring's  @font-face
    system and it worked with FLIR: no problem. So there you go. My solution will
    be to require that the obfuscated font be used for FLIR. The price for use on
    a single domain is exactly the same price as a regular font license so it should
    be okay.\r\n\r\nI like font hacks and admire anyone who tries to innovate. I wish
    that those who write font hacks had the foresight to make an attempt at keeping
    the fonts at least a little bit safer from direct downloading. At least safer
    than setting the default to an easily guessable subfolder of a folder which is
    shown in the page source."
  created: '2010-02-11 10:30:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">My solution will be to require that the obfuscated font be used for FLIR.\r\n\r\nRenaming!\r\nq4r-Tc81G.ttf\r\nWhat
    a concept. Works for me, Ray. And if I was using FLIR, I wouldn't want anybody
    using up my server resources and bandwidth and taking fonts I've payed good money
    for and, in some cases, spent considerable time sub-setting and improving and
    converting.\r\nNo reasonable site owner or webmaster is going to argue with the
    logic of this - it goes beyond \"protect my font from unlicensed distribution\".\r\nIt's
    win/win and should be presented that way.\r\n\r\nJust some thoughts regarding
    the change we're just beginning to go through for whatever bearing it might have
    on licensing:\r\n\r\nFor the past fifteen years web designers have been in prison,
    typographically speaking. Prison \"Web Safe\". Their meals have been cooked for
    them, their clothes cleaned for them, every aspect regulated. No thought required.\r\nSoon,
    they'll have to deal with freedom. It *will* bring a change of consciousness about
    fonts. Fonts will be seen differently than they are today - as resources that
    you need to know something about to use effectively.\r\nToday, fonts are this
    black-box thing you access by writing: \"font-family: verdana, sans-serif;\"\r\nToday,
    the average web designer has no concept of \"font-family\". Font-family is synonymous
    with \"the name of the font\". The idea that italic and bold reside in different
    files doesn't even occur to anybody - why should it? It's been taken care of for
    them by the OS, out of view, for fifteen years. When it suddenly becomes <em>their</em>
    responsibility, it's completely different.\r\nI could go on and on in this vein.\r\nIt's
    going to be very interesting to see how designers deal with the responsibility.\r\nAnd
    when it *is* their responsibility, they won't treat those resources casually.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-11 14:08:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I could go on and on in this vein.\r\n\r\nPlease do: styling, sizing, scaling,
    rendering, treatments, leading, tracking... \r\n\r\nBut Prison? I'd say Childhood.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-11 17:44:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>But Prison? I'd say Childhood.\r\n\r\nSpot on. The prison
    metaphor sucked but something more apt was eluding me. Childhood much better.
    Thought of it this morning then saw your comment.\r\nDavid Berlow: Type Designer
    and Mentalist.\r\n\r\nOf course, I *will* go on about styling, sizing, scaling,
    rendering, et al.\r\nIn the main, web designers don't know what they don't know
    about fonts.\r\n\r\nBut here we seem to be focusing on specific technologies and
    their relationship to EULAs.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-12 16:49:33'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "An update on Linotype. Previously on the show:\r\n\r\n<em>I had a really
    odd conversation with their support, which is in fact still ongoing. In first
    reply they merely said \"we offer web licenses which offer this usage\", \"this\"
    referring to Cufon. That's it. And asked for a mailing (!) address to send me
    an invoice. No mention of the fees, restrictions, etc. I replied asking for a
    balpark estimate of fees, and they replied that they needed to know the exact
    typeface and asked for mailing address again... you guessed it... for an invoice.</em>\r\n\r\nOnly
    9 days has passed and in response to my\r\n\r\n<em>I really don't need an invoice
    at the moment, just wanted to understand the pricing level and exact licensing
    terms. If you are set on sending me an invoice, please send it as a PDF to this
    email address.</em>\r\n\r\nnow I have received a reply:\r\n\r\n<em>Dear Alex,\r\nI
    can't - I still need your invoice address :-)\r\nBest regards\r\nXxxx Xxxxxx\r\nLinotype
    GmbH</em>\r\n\r\nNote the lovely smile. It is still like talking to a wall."
  created: '2010-02-12 18:18:07'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nYou don't know what to make of this post and I don't know what
    to make of your comment.\r\n\r\n>It\u2019s kind of like writing a letter to the
    SciFi channel asking them\r\n>not to cancel Battlestar Galactica.\r\n\r\nThis
    means what? If it means that the people commenting here are out of touch, I find
    that offensive - although I don't believe you mean it to be - and, considering
    your position and who you work for, rather disturbing. Really.\r\n\r\n>The war
    is over. The browser makers and the font makers have voted,\r\n>and in five or
    six years we will hopefully see the majority of installed\r\n>browsers supporting
    WOFF.\r\n\r\nThis vote took place when? Must have missed it. And what does the
    majority of browsers supporting WOFF have to do with anything? Please explain.\r\n\r\n>Between
    now and then there will be interim solutions, best served by\r\n>folks like Typekit
    who provide \u201Cfonts as a service\u201D rather than the\r\n>random, often hack-like,
    solutions currently being promoted.\r\n\r\nSays you. If you really believe this,
    you're scaring me. Have you been watching <em>Caprica</em>?\r\n\r\n>As to font
    pricing and web specific licenses, I don\u2019t think any level\r\n>of pleading
    from web designers (or the companies, large and small\r\n>who will end up paying
    for the font licenses) will really make\r\n>much difference \u2013 the market
    will decide.\r\n\r\nThere doesn't seem to any \"pleading\" necessary. If someone
    doesn't want to license to me under terms that I can live with, I just go elsewhere,
    that's all. Do you think I won't find what I need?\r\nAnd Sii, it's \"the companies,
    large and small who will end up paying for the font licenses\" that comprise the
    \"market\" that you say \"will decide\". You're running around in circles. The
    browser makers and font makers have decided but the market will decide on their
    decision. Huh?\r\n\r\nI'm glad you like Typekit. I like them, too. Both the guys
    behind it personally and as a service. But everything has its advantages and disadvantages.
    One disadvantage to Typekit is that it provides an avenue whereby font makers
    can say proudly that they are \"licensing\" for use on the web without really
    licensing for use on the web. As you can see from the comments here and a quick
    visit to Fontspring where, (at last count - it's more every day) Ethan Dunham
    has twenty one font makers who seem to be casting their votes some other way.\r\nTherefore,
    as of right now, I am formally demanding a recount.\r\nIt seems Battlestar is
    back on.\r\n\r\nThe other downside to Typekit is that it postpones, among web
    designers, the learning about fonts and the way browsers utilize them, that must
    eventually take place.\r\nThere's no way around it. Web designers will have to
    learn some things they don't currently know about fonts. Ain't rocket science.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-12 19:59:44'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Now, all Larabie Fonts are @font-face linkable. So, I think I'm covered for
    web embedding now apart from making a chart on my <a href=\"bit.ly/bbrUgM\">embedding
    page</a>.\r\n\r\nHow do I get the ball rolling with WOFF?"
  created: '2010-02-13 01:14:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">chart on my embedding page.\r\nlink stink? I get \"Page not found\"\r\n\r\n>
    Ain't rocket science.\r\n\r\nI'm torn \u2014 is it that [web typography] \"Ain't
    rocket science\"? or is it \"Ain't [typography as] rocket science [fun!]?\"\r\n\r\n>The
    other downside to Typekit is that it postpones, among web designers, the learning
    about fonts \r\n\r\nDownside? and perhaps the downside of low-iodine salt is that
    when normal people use it they don't get enough iodine?\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-13 13:50:06'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'Yup, link stink. Here it is: <a href="http://bit.ly/bbrUgM">http://bit.ly/bbrUgM</a>'
  created: '2010-02-14 01:43:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\nWOFF - AFAIK, the quickest and easiest way to create a
    WOFF file is with the generator on Font Squirrel. However, the WOFF spec allows
    you to add some labeling data which the generator makes no provision for. There's
    source code for WOFF and the spec is published, but as yet, no comprehensive desktop
    tool I'm aware of for going from a fontfile->WOFF and then from WOFF->fontfile,
    and manipulating the discretionary data in between. I'm sure a few font designers
    have home-grown code for it.\r\nHowever, WOFF is only supported in Firefox 3.6
    which was just released and it will take some time for users to upgrade and 3.6
    to propagate. (I still can't move to it and get all my add-ons to update to my
    satisfaction.)\r\nThat said, I know for a certainty that desktop tool(s) for working
    with WOFF are in the queue, it won't be long. Others might know about other options.\r\nThere's
    links <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nIn a vein similar to
    WOFF, there's one other valuable tool I'd like you to be aware of, it's a couple
    of weeks away from release, but I can get you an advance copy and you can begin
    using it right away. (Dunham knows about it.)\r\nIt's something you and your customers
    can benefit from immediately.\r\nI'll send an email to the gmail account listed
    on your site.\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\n\r\n>Ain't rocket science\r\nManipulating font
    files ain't rocket science. Tables, some code, anything else? \r\nEverything has
    a learning curve, but provided that decent educational materials exist, it usually
    doesn't take long for you to get the essentials clear enough in your head to,
    at least, make intelligent choices. To get to the place where you at least know
    what you don't know. Of course, as in any field, there are those with exceptional
    talent for it. But the basics are well within the grasp of the average web designer.\r\n\r\nWith
    <em>creating</em> fonts, there is an element reminiscent of ballistics involved.
    There is the \"co-efficient\" that still must be provided by the human eye.\r\nStill
    no substitute. \r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-14 15:29:21'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Thanks, Richard. I've updated my <a href=\"http://bit.ly/bbrUgM\">embedding
    page</a> with that info. If you have time, please check it out and let know if
    it's accurate.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-15 07:13:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\nWill do. Looked quickly, looked OK, but I do have some
    comments and suggestions. You've been kind of like my first customer, so to speak,
    and my commercial neurons are now firing at warp speed after a long time on impulse
    power. Thrusters on full.\r\nMuch to do today. Will get back to you.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-15 16:36:01'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>In a vein similar to WOFF, there's one other valuable tool I'd like
    you to be aware of, it's a couple of weeks away from release, but I can get you
    an advance copy and you can begin using it right away. (Dunham knows about it.)\r\nIt's
    something you and your customers can benefit from immediately.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're
    making me curious too."
  created: '2010-02-16 09:40:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "The site is  up and the product available for download: <a href=\"http://eotfast.com\">EOTFAST</a>\r\nEOTFAST
    is a utility for creating natively compressed EOT files for use with any domain.
    There are no root string restrictions, as with Microsoft WEFT.\r\nUtilities like
    Microsoft WEFT, ttf2eot, the Font Squirrel EOT generator, and Ascender's tool
    for EOT \"Lite\" are now obsolete.\r\nSavings in file size typically range from
    45% to 70%.\r\nFor example, a first-rate screen font like Droid Serif starts out
    at 169kb as a TTF with the full character set but as an EOTFAST file it weighs
    in at only 80kb. With still the full character set. Compression is <em>lossless</em>.\r\nPlease
    stop by the site to check it out. Further announcements will appear in various
    forums in the coming days.\r\nThe documentation contains very useful information
    for font designers looking to prepare their fonts for use on the web.\r\n\r\nThe
    download package also contains a HTML \"EOT File Integrity Test\" page and a helpful
    \"fallback\" test font. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://eotfast.com\">EOTFAST</a> is
    a must-have for anyone looking to use @font-face web fonts today or for years
    to come - for as long as Internet Explorer has a substantial user-base.\r\nVersion
    2.0 is already in work. I'm using a Beta of it right now. And as soon as certain
    technical issues are scoped out, conversion from TTF to EOT using EOTFAST will
    probably appear as an online service, as well.\r\n\r\nEOTFAST works to deliver
    web fonts to half a billion IE users today - not in some distant the future.\r\nI
    like the WOFF format but it has a bit of catching up to do now, with EOTFAST.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-22 00:57:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Rich, I commend your efforts, but IE is not the future of the web.
  created: '2010-02-22 06:33:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-02-22 06:43:47'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Richard wrote: <em>... Ascender's tool for EOT \"Lite\" are now obsolete.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    may be just marketing-speak, but in case it's not: Are you sure you understood
    the purpose of the EOT Lite proposal? It didn't leave out compression because
    it couldn't be implemented, but to allow other browser vendors to implement EOT
    support without any patent issues.\r\n\r\n<em>I like the WOFF format but it has
    a bit of catching up to do now, with EOTFAST.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy? Tools for web font
    conversion have already existed for some time, for both WOFF and EOT.\r\n\r\nIn
    your <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/eotfast-a-new-and-essential-product-for-font-face-web-fonts/\">blog
    post about EOTfast</a> you wrote: <em>EOTFAST is released as open-source under
    the Apache license.</em> Where can I find the source code?\r\n\r\nJens"
  created: '2010-02-22 13:59:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2010-02-22 17:49:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'll believe it's a dessert wax <em>and</em> a floor topping when I've got
    my hands on it and tested the in and out puts. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-22 17:56:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Rich, I commend your efforts, but IE is not the future of the web.\r\n\r\nThis
    is kind of like saying the future of transportation is not the internal combustion
    engine. You're probably right, but IE is going to be around for many, many years.
    IE6 still has more than 20% market share!?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-22 17:58:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, it seems to me that what you have done is to produce an EOT-creation
    tool that is easier to use that WEFT. Now, for sure, the relative complexity of
    WEFT is one reason why EOT never took off in the decade in which it has existed
    as the @font-face implementation in IE, but it's hardly the most significant reason.\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand why you have made a tool that avoids the (to other browsers)
    contentious URL-binding aspect of EOT while implementing the equally contentious
    patented compression. The latter, as well as your commentary, makes it clear that
    EOTFAST targets IE only, since only IE supports this compression. But IE also
    supports URL binding, so why have you disabled that?"
  created: '2010-02-22 18:06:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'You''re right, Si. I should clarify: the future of the web will be seen on
    many browsers. Support for only IE won''t cut it.'
  created: '2010-02-22 18:44:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You're right, Si. I should clarify: the future of the web will be seen on
    many browsers. Support for only IE won't cut it.\r\n\r\nAgree. Also on many different
    devices with many different types of display and rendering styles. "
  created: '2010-02-22 19:02:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "First, more technical news:\r\nGarrick Van Buren has converted Kernest's
    entire font library using <a href=\"http://eotfast.com\">EOTFAST</a> plus - and
    this one has *me* amazed and astounded - he reports having found an answer to
    the problems of reliable gzip delivery for fonts of any kind.\r\n<a href=\"http://blog.kernest.com/archive/kernest-hosted-fonts-now-even-more-gzippy-er/\">More
    Gzipper Than Ever</a>\r\nProblems with gzip discussed here:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.stevesouders.com/blog/2009/11/11/whos-not-getting-gzip/\">Who's
    Not Getting Gzip</a>\r\n\r\n@jens\r\n>This may be just marketing-speak\r\nNo.
    I'll write sales puffery like anybody else, of course, but something quite that
    bold, no.\r\nThey're obsolete.\r\n>to allow other browser vendors to implement
    EOT support without any patent issues\r\nCorrect as regards EOT Lite. But frankly,
    EOT Lite seems dead in the water as part of a W3C standard. It's mentioned as
    an aside in the current web fonts charter proposal.\r\nEOT is the old soldier
    that we'll have to care for until quietly fading away.\r\nI do not know exactly
    what is planned for IE9 other than continued support for EOT as a backwards-compatibility
    legacy thing.\r\n\"Don't break the web\", meaning, as far as possible, continuing
    to provide support for existing web pages is an article of faith for the IE devs.
    People can bitch about conditional comments and versioning strings as much as
    they want but there'd be a lot more bitching if IE didn't have them. If Firefox
    pushes out an upgrade and there's a regression in the code, what's the problem?
    Not a lot. If it was IE, you might not be able to make a withdrawal from your
    bank. There's a huge disparity in the level of responsibility required which,
    unfortunately, a lot of people in the web community don't get. I'm interested
    in seeing if there's any unwanted side effects in the European market in the short
    term. Interesting.\r\n>Where can I find the source code?\r\nIt will be posted
    but I can't tell you exactly when. On Github or Sourceforge or somewhere. The
    source for Version 2 will hold much more opportunity for collaboration and I'd
    rather wait until then. I do feel a responsibility to make sure that the basics
    are solid, first. I don't know of anybody who's done as much hard research as
    me and there's a lot more to do, too.\r\nThere will be an announcement and a mailing
    when that happens.\r\nIn the meantime, the executable is there for the asking.
    You're welcome. Will you be using WEFT again in the near future?\r\n>Why? Tools
    for web font conversion have already existed for some time,\r\n>for both WOFF
    and EOT.\r\nImplementations, man, implementations. Half a billion or more users
    can benefit from EOT in IE now, today. FF 3.6 was just released so the pool of
    users who can benefit today from WOFF is indeed small.\r\n\r\n@johnhudson\r\n>one
    reason why EOT never took off in the decade in which it has existed as the @font->face
    implementation in IE, but it's hardly the most significant reason.\r\nOh geez,
    you've got me singing the song \"Turn, Turn, Turn\" in my head, now. (Go ahead,
    all together, now - I'll give you minute...)\r\nBandwidth, bandwidth, bandwidth.
    At the time of what I call \"Pax IE\" when IE6 ruled the roost with no competition
    whatsoever, it was still largely a dial-up world. Let's not forget how much has
    happened in the last five years. In this case IE was ahead of the curve. It happens.
    Even in Redmond. I know it sounds simplistic, but it was just a case of other
    web development techniques having a greater priority.\r\nAs far as URL binding
    etc.... you're leaving me wondering what on earth we were all gnashing our teeth
    about last year. Was it a dream? ;) Your questions are reasonable, but let me
    get back to them.\r\n\r\n@stephencoles\r\n>the future of the web will be seen
    on many browsers. Support for only IE won't cut it.\r\nIt sure won't. And you
    can't cut it without IE, either.\r\nBottom line: Both EOT and WOFF offer a way
    to wrap a font file without the encumbrance of root strings and with highly effective
    compression. In effect, there isn't a whole lot of difference now between the
    two.\r\nI have gotten the distinct impression that a case was being made that
    IE's @font-face implementation was in some way fatally flawed, and that the font
    design community therefore had no choice but to wait until IE caught up before
    offering licenses under WOFF while avoiding EOT and the huge user-base that can
    benefit from it.\r\nNow, in light of EOTFAST, what's the diff?\r\nThere will be
    convenient, easy to use tools for both formats.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-23 17:12:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@stephen\r\n\r\n>Rich, I commend your efforts, but IE is not the future of
    the web.\r\n\r\nI won't go near the claptrappery of a phrase like \"future of
    the web\".\r\nBut there's this:\r\nOil is not the future of humanity's need for
    sources of energy.\r\nI guess you'll be keeping your car in the driveway until
    that happens, eh?\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-23 17:45:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "My point is: you need both \u2014 EOT <em>and</em> WOFF \u2014\_for the greatest
    compatibility <em>right now</em>. That\u2019s why the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/blog/?cat=80\">Web
    FontFonts</a> released today come in both formats."
  created: '2010-02-24 02:20:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "No, the two formats you need <em>right now</em> are EOT <em>and</em> desktop
    fonts. You don't need WOFF for compatibility at all. Web FontFonts are in EOT
    and WOFF because nobody wants to license desktop fonts to end users for direct
    web use.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong: I'm convinced that WOFF will be the format
    of choice in a few years. But right now it's only supported by Firefox 3.6, so
    it has a long way to go still.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-24 03:48:42'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> Nobody wants to license desktop fonts to end users for direct web use.\r\n\r\nRight.
    Making that point kind of moot, no?"
  created: '2010-02-24 04:02:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Not moot... it explains why services like TypeKit are relevant; licensing
    for EOT+WOFF without desktop fonts misses ~23% of browser users who are on Firefox
    3.5 or Safari 3.1-4.0. (Admittedly, that percentage is doubtless decreasing rapidly
    as Firefox users migrate upwards, with a floor of about 4% Safari users.)\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there's also another ~8% using browsers that don't support any version
    of @font-face, basically Chrome plus assorted mobile browsers.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-24 08:07:11'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: Chrome does support @font-face.
  created: '2010-02-24 08:23:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It sure does.\r\n\r\nRich, what does EOTFast do when it meets a font with
    an embedding bit IE does not like?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-24 12:41:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: hmmm?
  created: '2010-02-24 12:41:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>Rich, what does EOTFast do when it meets a font with an
    embedding bit IE does not like?\r\nIn version 1.0, it converts the font into an
    EOT and then that EOT does not work in IE because IE itself declines to load it.
    This will happen if the embedding is set to \"restricted\". Whether the EOT is
    working can be immediately confirmed using the EOT Test page that's a part of
    the package. Although the test page will not tell you what the nature of the problem
    is.\r\nIn version 2.0 (in Beta), there are user alerts as the conversions take
    place, telling you exactly what potential problem(s) there might be and restricted
    embedding is one of them. This is a stop error. No conversion. No point in allowing
    it to go forward - IE won't load the file.\r\nI considered the idea of checking
    for a vendor ID of \"FBI\" and then changing the permissions to allow for embedding
    but decided against it. Instead there's just a pop up saying, \"Google: 'Fonts
    NBC'\". (Just teasing, David.)\r\n\r\nEOTFAST is about assisting in the creation
    of working EOT files. No more, no less.\r\n\r\nThat answer your question?\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-02-24 16:10:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ah, true enough, Chrome 4 supports @font-face at last, been about three weeks
    now. Anybody know if that's only TTF/OTF, or does it also include WOFF?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-24 16:24:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@stephencoles\r\n\r\n>That\u2019s why the Web FontFonts released today come
    in both formats.\r\n\r\nIMHO - that's what must be standard practice for the foreseeable
    future. \r\nAnd I'm really glad to hear it.\r\nYes, it's more work on the back
    end - conversions and so forth - but show me a way around it. There just isn't
    any.\r\n\"Waiting For WOFF\" isn't a viable strategy. What if the rest of the
    world decides not to wait around with you?\r\nWOFF is just a transport wrapper
    that adds nothing to intrinsic value of the font. And it will take years for it
    to take hold.\r\n\r\n\r\n@tp\r\n>No, the two formats you need right now are EOT
    and desktop fonts. You don't need WOFF\r\n>for compatibility at all. Web FontFonts
    are in EOT and WOFF because nobody wants to\r\n>license desktop fonts to end users
    for direct web use.\r\nCompletely accurate. Although I'm not following the \"desktop
    fonts\" and relevancy of Typekit thing in your other comment.\r\n\r\nFont services
    will make sense for a lot of users as long as integration into the page is an
    easy thing and the fonts look good. Somebody with a freebie Wordpress blog doesn't
    want to fuss with fonts. Just add some spice to the page.\r\nAs far as the fonts
    looking good - whole other discussion."
  created: '2010-02-24 16:34:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Based on this thread I am changing my EULA to be more permissive about some
    of this stuff. What do people think of the following:\r\n\r\n<cite>You may not
    make the font available via the internet either by linking or embedding except
    as specified below. \u201CEmbedding\u201C and \u201Clinking\u201D include, but
    are not limited to, Typeface.JS, Cuf\xF3n, sIFR, and directly linking to the font
    for use with the CSS @Font-Face tag.\r\nII. You may embed the font into an electronic
    document, such as a PDF file, provided that document allows no editing using the
    font.\r\nII. You may embed the font into a web site using Flash only if the text
    contained within the Flash file is static and users are not able to create content
    featuring the font. \r\nIII. You may use the font with software that automatically
    generates bitmap or vector images, such as Typeface.JS, Cuf\xF3n, sIFR, and FLIR,
    provided that you purchase a license for each computer running the software.</cite>"
  created: '2010-02-24 17:10:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's like you shouldn't put a hard-and-fast dated EULA in a font package (which
    will be "on the shelf" at distributors for years, and they won't want to be constantly
    updating), but rather a link to a EULA that's current at the time of purchase
    of the font. Versioned EULAs.
  created: '2010-02-24 18:10:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">In version 1.0, it converts the (any) font into an EOT...\r\n\r\nany font
    then? regardless of what the foundry set the embedding bit to?\r\n(why did you
    have to release 1.0 first? what's the rush that's put your speeding tricycle in
    front of  the train?)\r\n\r\n>EOTFAST is about assisting in the creation of working
    EOT files. No more, no less.\r\n... just as a handgun is about chemically assisting
    matter to supersonic speed. No more, no less.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-24 18:39:06'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Chrome 4 supports @font-face at last, been about three weeks now. Anybody
    know if that's only TTF/OTF, or does it also include WOFF?</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nNo
    WOFF, it's working just as Webkit/Safari. \r\nhttp://www.webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=@font-face_browser_support\r\n\r\nApart
    from Mozilla, no other browser maker seems to be very interested in WOFF at the
    moment. "
  created: '2010-02-24 20:23:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nRe: Fontshop's Web FontFonts initiative which I was just looking
    over.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/blog/?p=1763\r\n\r\nThey are saying that
    EOT Lite and WOFF will reach 90% of web users.\r\nThis number is incorrect. It
    is therefore misleading.\r\nPlus, the  introductory sales copy ignores that Safari
    users and Chrome users will not get the fonts since neither EOT or WOFF are supported
    in either browser. I find this a step beyond putting a good face on things.\r\n\r\nTheir
    technical document:\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/blog/newsletters/pdf/webfontfontuserguide.pdf\r\nalso
    has critically flawed information regarding best-practice CSS syntax and very,
    very incorrect information regarding Internet Explorer's @font-face implementation.\r\nFlat-out
    wrong.\r\nMisinformation dispensed from a major font site doesn't do web users,
    font designers, or anybody any good.\r\nI find this very disheartening.\r\n\r\nI
    urge them to either remove that documentation entirely or mark it plainly as being
    severely incorrect in parts and under revision.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://eotfast.com\">rich</a>"
  created: '2010-02-24 22:51:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney\r\n\r\nAha! Sometimes I'm slow. \"Desktop Font\" = euphemism
    for TTF or OTF delivered raw, naked, and steamy - but chopped up. The way the
    Russians like to eat 'em.\r\n\r\nAs for Chrome - reported on Dec 12, 2009:\r\nhttp://readableweb.com/font-face-works-automatically-in-new-google-chrome-beta/\r\n\r\nTTF/OTF
    support has been a part of the current version for quite awhile now.\r\n\r\nNo
    WOFF."
  created: '2010-02-25 01:11:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"They are saying that EOT Lite and WOFF will reach 90% of web users.\"\r\n\r\nNo
    they say that IE + FireFox = 90% of Web visitors which is close to being correct.
    Of course this avoids the fact that there are versions of FF that don't support
    WOFF.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 01:30:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Re: Fontshop's Web FontFonts initiative which I was just looking over.\r\n\r\nYes
    Rich, but it's all legal handling of their IP. You have a problem with that, which
    should be solved before you start tossing tummy chuck on other efforts. \r\n\r\n>I
    urge them to either remove that documentation entirely or mark it plainly as being
    severely incorrect in parts and under revision.\r\n\r\nAnd I urge you to remove
    your infantile software, or mark it plainly as being dangerous to the legal status
    of its users. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-25 14:36:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard: Yes, that's what I meant. Glad you figured it out, because I didn't
    understand what it was you didn't understand. (Heh, how's that for a twisted sentence?)\r\n\r\n@Si:
    Hmmm. Good point. That would be marketing!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-25 16:25:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomasphinney\r\n\r\nIn keeping with your observations - what Fontshop is
    doing with the Web FontFonts initiative is called a \"bait and switch\".\r\nI've
    studied the advertising styles of the early to mid 20th century closely and in
    so doing developed a soft spot for hucksterism like this.\r\n(It is today, however,
    generally illegal. <em>If</em> the customer is \"baited\" to sign on using false
    claims and then \"switched\" to something that's going to cost more. I'd have
    to look closer to see if that's the case here. But I really don't care.)\r\n\r\nWorks
    like this:\r\n\r\n1) First, you suck the customer in with what seems like a perfectly
    reasonable, even juicy offer. 90% of browsers supported! Specially optimized fonts!
    (Not sure if there's anywhere to actually preview what they look like in the browser
    on Fontshop - I couldn't find it.) Anyway, at first, everything looks great.\r\n\r\n2)
    Turns out there's a catch that was not immediately apparent - in this case its
    that fonts formatted in EOT and WOFF won't show up in Safari or Chrome. (You mean
    I can't post the TTF?) Of course, no web designer is going to want that and so
    the customer is steered to the \"free\" Typekit hosting option as a solution.
    (A solution to a problem that was created by the nature of the sales offering
    in the first place, of course. Wink. Wink.)\r\n\r\nThe Typekit hosting service
    is what's being sold.\r\nThe \"Web FontFonts\" is just a way to steer the customers
    to it.\r\n(Check close and think about it. Unless I've missed something fundamental,
    you'll see I'm right.)\r\n\r\nOf course, the more trustworthy the source of the
    offer - Fontshop! - the less likely the customer will be on the lookout for gotchas,
    so the better it works.\r\n\r\nSlick! If Bryan Mason thought of this - Bryan my
    hat is off.\r\nI thought this kind of marketing went out with the aluminimum siding
    salesmen characterized in Barry Levinson's classic 1987 comedy \"Tin Men\" but
    I guess there's a revival going on.\r\n\r\nI'm really starting to like the font
    business a lot.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 01:42:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Unless I've missed something fundamental, you'll see I'm right.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know that you're wrong, so you must have missed something fundamental. Actually,
    I'm having a hard time keeping track of how many fundamental things you missed.
    How about this for starters: we're at a transitional moment in which new licensing
    businesses are coming along in the midst of inconsistent format support. There
    is absolutely no obligation on any vendor to provide their fonts in all supported
    formats in all browsers, and if, in light of the inconsistent support, companies
    try to provide temporary alternatives to customers who feel they <em>need</em>
    to implement their designs across more browsers than support the formats offered
    by those vendors -- any my own customers have indicated that they feel no such
    need --, that shouldn't be grounds for suggesting that such companies are affecting
    a con. Frankly, if I were FontShop, I'd be asking my lawyers to review your last
    post for a possible libel suit, since you have accused them of something that
    you acknowledge is \u2018generally illegal\u2019.\r\n\r\nNot long ago, you were
    jumping up and down demanding that font vendors start licensing fonts for the
    web and to make clear in what formats they intended to do so, despite the fact
    that I, for one, thought \u2018What's the rush? The browser support isn't where
    it needs to be yet.\u2019 Now, one of the most respected and successful font vendors
    is doing just what you demanded, and you are accusing them of doing something
    both else and nefarious.\r\n\r\nThis seems to me a grossly unfair detraction."
  created: '2010-02-27 01:45:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard: It may have been a simple mistake as well. I agree it's misleading,
    but it could be easily corrected.\r\n\r\nLike John, I don't assume that offering
    Web FontFont licensing directly (from which FontShop gets all the revenue, and
    owns the customer relationship) is intended by FontShop as a bait-and-switch to
    get customers to sign up in a paying relationship with TypeKit (in which FontShop
    gets some smaller cut of revenue, and somebody else owns the customer relationship).\r\n\r\nThe
    direct Web licensing of fonts, with a one-time fee and a sliding scale of that
    fee based on volume, is simply a different model than web font service rental.
    The web font biz is in a wild west frontier mode right now, where people are trying
    to set up new settlements all over the place, and we don't know which ones will
    attract settlers. In 50 internet years (7 real years), will it be Deadwood, Los
    Angeles or San Francisco that becomes the thriving metropolis? Quite probably
    multiple things will succeed, and almost certainly not all of them will.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-27 16:56:49'
- author:
    name: corymawhorter
  body: "@typodermic \r\n> My solution will be to require that the obfuscated font
    be used for FLIR.\r\n\r\nBefore you do that, let me release an updated version
    that prevents direct access to the fonts folder with an .htaccess file.  This
    will mean that no file will be able to be downloaded from anything in that folder
    (even if you can guess the filename).  The user will receive a \"Forbidden\" message
    when trying.  Let me know if this is not satisfactory, because I'd be happy to
    change to make it so.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure why a randomly generated filename for
    font-face is a better solution.  I can just parse the stylesheet and find out
    the exact filename?  Unless I'm missing something?\r\n\r\n> The price for use
    on a single domain is exactly the same price as a regular font license so it should
    be okay.\r\n\r\nI applaud this.  Thank you.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nWhat is the point
    of WOFF?  It really seems like a joke from where I'm standing.  It looks like
    a fancy gzip compression library with a bit of easily breakable DRM thrown in
    to make you guys feel good.\r\n\r\nWOFF is to the web font world, what taking
    your shoes off while passing through airport security does for making flights
    more secure here in the states.  It makes for good theater and gives you a warm
    feeling inside, but it doesn't actually do anything.\r\n\r\nAnyone who is determined
    enough to get a font will be able to break WOFF, just like they'd be able to break
    any other method.  The problem is that at some point, the font has to return to
    a font to be used by the OS, and it is at this point that it can be grabbed, saved,
    and reused -- whether it be from a cache file, RAM, or specially crafted software.\r\n\r\nIf
    typeface designers are looking to WOFF, EOT or any other of these technologies
    as being the holy grail for getting their fonts embedded in a safe way on the
    web, then they are sadly mistaken.\r\n\r\nIf history has taught us anything, DRM
    is pointless.  Someone is going to break it, and then release a program to make
    it easy for others to do the same.  The only thing DRM does is make it more difficult
    for legit users to use your product.  This is the inherent problem with DRM.  In
    order for the enduser to use it, some bit of software has to turn it from DRM'd
    file -> Regular file, and if one program can do it, some other program can and
    save the data locally in the process.  Even the movie industries with all their
    might cannot release a DVD with DRM that isn't easily broken.\r\n\r\nI am going
    to say with a certainty -- right now, and forever -- that there is absolutely
    no way to protect your IP from theft.  Period.  The only thing you are doing by
    pursuing these technologies is making it more difficult for legit users to implement
    your fonts.  And the more difficult it is, the less likely it is that I am going
    to do it -- and I'm happy to not buy your fonts, and make my life easier. "
  created: '2010-03-13 18:13:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Cory, the key benefit of WOFF (or any wrapper format for web fonts) is that
    it makes a distinction at the licensing and deliverable level between a desktop
    font and a web font.\r\n\r\n<em>...with a bit of easily breakable DRM thrown in
    to make you guys feel good.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you'd followed the W3C font list discussion,
    you'd know that there is explicitly <em>no</em> DRM at all in WOFF, so talking
    about WOFF in terms of DRM makes no sense at all. What there is in WOFF is optional
    metadata. There is no obligation on browser agents to do anything with this data;
    hence, it doesn't constitute anything like DRM. You would also know that none
    of the font makers who support WOFF have ever imagined that this wrapper protected
    their IP against deliberate theft and unlicensed exploitation. Rather, the wrapper
    protects against <em>casual misuse</em> of web fonts as desktop fonts and provides
    mechanisms, including use of metadata, to help font vendors and their customers
    who do want to respect licenses."
  created: '2010-03-13 18:34:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n<em>I know that you're wrong, so you must have missed something
    fundamental.</em>\r\nHow do you know I'm wrong. You have not refuted a single
    fact I put forth. Representatives of the Fontshop are perfectly free to post here
    and bolster their sales claims. Where are they?\r\nThey can come here and explain
    how many web designers of sound mind they expect to license their WOFF and EOT
    files when it means the fonts will not show up in Safari, Chrome, Opera, or Firefox
    3.5.\r\nI'd love to hear it. And since you are standing up as proxy for them,
    perhaps you can explain it.\r\nPlease explain it.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-13 18:52:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, you accused FontShop with Typekit of a deliberate bait-and-switch marketing
    scheme, as if somehow FontShop's refusal to license their unwrapped desktop fonts
    for web serving were some kind of ploy to push customers to using a service like
    Typekit's. As Tom pointed out, that doesn't make a shred of financial sense for
    FontShop, since they would make more money from licensing the naked fonts direct
    to customers than they would from having those same customers go to Typekit.\r\n\r\n<em>They
    can come here and explain how many web designers of sound mind they expect to
    license their WOFF and EOT files when it means the fonts will not show up in Safari,
    Chrome, Opera, or Firefox 3.5.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd your solution to this is that FontShop
    should give in and license naked desktop fonts to be served on the web? Should
    font makers bow to as yet non-existent customer pressure rather than continuing
    to exert their own, so-far-so-successful pressure on the non-IE browser makers
    to support a mutually acceptable wrapper format? Sorry, Rich, but to me it looks
    like a no-brainer. You don't surrender when you've already won the first battle
    and the next opposing army hasn't actually arrived on the field yet."
  created: '2010-03-13 20:29:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Should font makers bow to as yet non-existent customer pressure...\r\n\r\nIs
    \"as yet non-existent pressure\", a double negative? or entertainment?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-13 20:39:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\n<em>And your solution to this is that FontShop should
    give in and license naked desktop fonts to be served on the web?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    that is not my solution. Don't put words in my mouth, please. My solution is straighforwardness
    and honesty of approach. Tell it like it really is. Tell your customers what you're
    really selling. Tell them that they won't be able to reach 90% of browser users
    that it's more like 75% max. Tell them they won't reach Safari, Chrome and Firefox
    3.5 users. And thell them the reason they can't is because they won't be provided
    with the TTF needed to do so. And so therefore, they must turn to Typekit. Like
    I said, it's OK by me. (I'll keep saying it, but it doesn't seem to be sinking
    in.)\r\n\r\nI am absolutely stunned by your answer. You haven't denied that the
    situation is exactly as I've described it. But you've said that it's OK because
    as long as it involves IP, less than straightforward marketing is perfectly justified.
    Fontshop belongs to a privileged class that justifies low ethical standards in
    its business practices.\r\n\r\nI really wish you hadn't made that argument, John.
    It's very, very twisted.\r\nTo borrow a line from a Marx Bros. movie - How much
    do you charge to *not* come to someone's defense?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-14 01:42:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, maybe I missed some place where FontShop were claiming that their webfonts
    supported 90% of browsers. Isn't that a typical advertising over-estimation, kind
    of like claiming that your EOTfast tool renders all others obsolete?\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    I don't think FontShop are being deliberately misleading and I don't think they're
    setting a low ethical standard. I think they are introducing a new product into
    an emerging market with no precedence, and will probably make some mistakes in
    the process. If you disagreed with the information that they presented, did you
    write to them and suggest how it might be improved or clarified? Or did you just
    jump straight in with the public accusations that they are being unethical and
    performing a perverse bait-and-switch operation?\r\n\r\nIf you are genuinely interested
    in straightforwardness and honesty, enough with the \u2018absolutely stunned\u2019
    and \u2018very, very twisted\u2019 hyperbole. We're having a conversation, and
    your over-excitability is making it very difficult."
  created: '2010-03-14 06:52:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> How much do you charge to *not* come to someone's defense?\r\n\r\n...an
    interesting question from someone publishing a DMCA-violating \"product\".\r\n\r\nHow
    much you got? Or should we wait to go after your \"clients\"? \r\n\r\nHeads I
    win, tails you lose?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-14 16:02:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "From 24 October, 2009:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/63451.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if there is any place/person here that keeps a running list of this as it
    grows. Interesting times to say the least."
  created: '2010-03-14 18:25:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Ahh, just for the fun of it:\r\n\r\n@davidberlow\r\n<em>...an interesting
    question from someone publishing a DMCA-violating \"product\".</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    must have me confused with the Mozilla Foundation, or Apple, or Google. Can't
    you keep us titans of the industry straight?\r\n\r\n@johnhudson\r\n\r\nHere's
    the sales copy from Fontshop - anybody tuning in can use their own built-in BS
    detector and judge for themselves:\r\n\r\n<em>They work on most major browsers.
    Web FontFonts are delivered in EOT Lite and WOFF, the two formats supported by
    the most commonly used browsers: Internet Explorer\xAE and Firefox\xAE, covering
    more than 90% of all web visitors. We expect other browsers to join in implementing
    WOFF soon. A free Typekit hosting option extends compatibility to Safari\xAE and
    Chrome\xAE users.</em>\r\n\r\nNice weasels. Couldn't do better myself. Now, if
    this isn't meant to create the impression that Fontshop is providing, with those
    two files, a solution that covers 90% of all web visitors, well I'll be darned.
    Caveat emptor.\r\n\r\nAs has been noted already - even at a stretch - one in four
    \"web visitors\" will not get the fonts using those two files. If their copy read
    \"most web visitors\", I would have nothing to say. But they know 90% is innacurate.
    And that the true number is unacceptable to prospective customers. This leaves
    Typekit as the product. (Unless they're hoping to do a Berlow and waiting to see
    if the customer will convert the WOFF into a TTF and then put the screws to them.)\r\n\r\nThe
    notion that those two formats are a complete solution is bolstered by the following
    on the 'how it works' page:\r\n<em>Both formats are delivered with every Web FontFont
    purchase and can be used without relying on any third-party service.</em>\r\n\r\nIs
    it a bait and switch? Absolutely.\r\n\r\nIn the final analysis, there's no getting
    around one thing: they're selling a product - meaning the EOT and WOFF files -
    that don't meet any ordinary customer's expectations.\r\n\r\nIf you want to parse
    sentences and make excuses, go ahead.\r\n\r\nThere's more I could point out, but
    I'm past the point where it's interesting.\r\nBesides, some of it is technical,
    and I'll deal with that elsewhere."
  created: '2010-03-14 23:10:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Rich,  I'm surprised you are not clear on this.\r\n\r\nYour product's sole
    purpose is DMCA violation. Your user's use is copyright and TM violation. \r\nUsers
    who convert from web to desktop format, we'll get to a in a bit. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 12:18:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>\u2026the true number is unacceptable to prospective customers.</em>\r\n\r\nIs
    it? You reckon its 75% at best; I reckon it is currently likely to be quite a
    lot less than that, since FireFox users will need to be running the latest version.
    Yes, FontShop's \u2018more than 90% of all web visitors\u2019 (which, note, is
    not quite the same thing as 90% of browsers) is well premature. [Again, did you
    think to contact them about this, or did you jump straight in with the public
    accusations of unethical and possibly illegal behaviour?] Whatever the actual
    current percentage, I question your assertion that the true number is unacceptable
    to prospective customers. x% (easily more than 50% and most likely increasing)
    is surely better than 0%, and if web designers aren't aware and capable of the
    need for and provision of reasonable font fallback in browsers that do not support
    the licensed formats, well, they aren't web designers."
  created: '2010-03-15 18:04:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Related to WOFF market share - Mozz will be pushing 3.6 on users.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.geek.com/articles/news/mozilla-pushing-firefox-3-6-to-accelerate-adoption-20100316/
    \r\n\r\nAlso just announced IE9 Developer preview...\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2010/03/16/html5-hardware-accelerated-first-ie9-platform-preview-available-for-developers.aspx
    \r\n\r\nFor those interested in how IE9 will render type. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-16 16:57:54'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "Yes, please take a look at IE9 developer preview. I promised screenshots
    some time ago, but when I came around to prepare some it was too close to mix
    to steal the show from Dean. Tell us what you think. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2010-03-16 17:46:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Side by side of an unhinted font in IE8 and the preview of IE9...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IE8IE9_4929.PNG]\r\n\r\nFrom
    this old EOT demo I made 12 years ago... http://www.microsoft.com/typography/web/embedding/demos/9/demo9.htm "
  created: '2010-03-16 20:35:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si, do you have any demos that show black text on a white background?\r\n\r\nIt
    would also be nice to see a comparison of CFF rendering in IE8 and IE9."
  created: '2010-03-16 20:51:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Not CFF - but a couple of other examples...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IE8IE9c_4527.PNG]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IE8IE9b_4468.PNG]"
  created: '2010-03-16 21:41:23'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: 'This is Garamond Pro, D2D vs. GDI: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Garamond_3980.PNG]'
  created: '2010-03-16 22:47:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "This is really impressive.\r\n\r\nIf it only were a Firefox renderer... :)"
  created: '2010-03-16 22:53:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Firefox announced that they would likely be moving to DWrite just ahead of
    ATypI last year, and I think its implemented in recent minefield builds.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si "
  created: '2010-03-17 16:14:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Si and Sergey.\r\n\r\nSi, in your \u2018Daring Direball\u2019 example,
    is that still GDI on the left and DW on the right? If so, that's the first example
    I've seen where the DW rendering is considerably worse than the GDI: very fuzzy
    and lots of colour artefacts. Of course, some of this can be attributed to differences
    between how the screenshot appears on my screen vs. looking at the live rendering,
    but I wonder what other factors might be involved re. the particular font, choice
    of background colour, etc?"
  created: '2010-03-17 18:09:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Let's hope sergeym's got it right with DW2 on the left, and getting darker.
    The way John showed it on his specimens looked a lot like the refrain from a famous
    Procol Harum song. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-17 18:40:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: a whiter shade of pale, indeed.
  created: '2010-03-17 19:04:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Si, in your \u2018Daring Direball\u2019 example, is that still GDI on the
    left and DW on the right? \r\n\r\nYes all my samples are GDI (IE8) on the left
    and DWrite (IE9) on the right. We're certainly aware of places like this where
    text/background color combinations are producing interesting results, and the
    CT team are looking into this.  "
  created: '2010-03-17 19:26:52'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "@ R.Fink\r\n<cite>Representatives of the Fontshop are perfectly free to post
    here and bolster their sales claims. Where are they?</cite>\r\n\r\nSo we have
    to follow all discussions about our products in the web? Will you pay the staff?
    Sometimes we are following the threads on Typophile, sometimes not. If you want
    to make sure you will get an answer, please ask us directly (in one of our blogs
    for instance, as you already did when you wanted to know why we don\u2019t use
    EOTFAST \u2026)\r\n\r\n<cite>They can come here and explain how many web designers
    of sound mind they expect to license their WOFF and EOT files when it means the
    fonts will not show up in Safari, Chrome, Opera, or Firefox 3.5. I'd love to hear
    it. </cite>\r\n\r\nWe expect quite a few. We offer a solution that will work for
    most web site visitors at the latest in a couple of months hopefully (WOFF/EOT).
    We also offer a solution that works now for most web site visitors  (TK). I think
    this is great. And <em>quite a few</em> customers already thought so too."
  created: '2010-03-17 22:07:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...a whiter shade of pale, indeed.\r\nYou know that it was written for a
    girl named Claire Schrift?\r\n\r\nAnd I was wrong, Sii is right, serif fonts are
    getting lighter, sans are getting bold. \r\n\r\nI have this theory, that someone
    is so sick of type, \r\nit'll just getting lighter and lighter until one day pffffffzzzzzt!\r\nnot
    quite that loud, but all the Windows serif type under 12 point will be gone. \r\nthen
    a few years later, the sans. They'll keep Comic Sans and that\r\nDe Vinci thing
    just to taunt aging readers. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-17 23:49:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: God! Then even Squeeze and Boulder will become wimps :-(
  created: '2010-03-17 23:58:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Note that Si's and Sergey's illustrations are inconsistent: Si has the GDI
    on the left and the DW on the right; Sergey has it the other way around.\r\n\r\nCFF
    fonts will almost always get <em>heavier</em> with DW rendering, as Sergey shows,
    since GDI CFF rendering is notoriously skinny.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cffdwgdi_4628.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:17:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So Procol Harum is bumped from the top of the charts by the old union song
    \"Which Are You On\" ;)\r\n\r\nBut what's the point of CFF? I note that none of
    the examples, except for the \"Daring Fireball\", are intended for reading on
    screen, being either too big or the type selection is too weird. Is someone out
    to improve wysiwyg performance?\r\n\r\nThe readable \"Daring Fireball\" is most
    assuredly <strong>not</strong> a comparison of CFF being rendered, is it? The
    left is way too good for CFF, it looks like a live web site. The right is 1/2
    way from the left side towards Quartz, (i.e. wilderness training for readers).
    \r\n\r\nIs there a place in the machine I can kick the side and get it a little
    darker?\r\n\r\nAlso, not just rendering changes are hap'nin, in John's blowups
    of Sergey's, there is a huge difference between the forms of m in the regular
    on either side. Different fonts. Is this the same data, the same size and untampered?
    Also note, the left's word \"dolore\" the conflict between l.c. o's vs. between
    the two o's on the right. This signals the need for a White Paper on it's hinting
    interpretation, or is it just y hints now?\r\n\r\nIt's probably waaaaaay too late
    for scientific testing, but if you want to see what it'll look like, you've got
    a browser, are willing to set de browser to Actual Size, forsaking html scaling
    for my neat little buttons \u2014 you can always bounce it off <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/test/franky/\">perfection</a>
    in all possible weights to the 1/2 pixel ;)\r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 12:46:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I note that none of the examples, except for the \"Daring Fireball\", are
    intended for reading on screen, being either too big or the type selection is
    too weird. Is someone out to improve wysiwyg performance?\r\n\r\nFirst example
    was the only one I had handy to show an unhinted font - second two were in response
    to John's request (which i initially read as white on black, hence the DF grab)
    - I could have just said \"download IE9 and look for yourself\" but I'm not that
    rude. "
  created: '2010-03-18 13:45:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for all you help Sii, I thought this was still in the incubator. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-18 14:51:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No problem, download link here... \r\n\r\nhttp://ie.microsoft.com/testdrive/info/ThankYou/Default.html"
  created: '2010-03-18 15:16:00'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "WebFonts Working Group is approved by W3C!\r\n\r\nThe announcement went out
    yesterday to all W3C members, and the public announcement is coming soon to the
    News section of the W3C website. For detailed information about the group and
    how to join (if you are interested to participate) please see [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010JanMar/0044.html|the
    announcement on www-font list]].\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nVladimir\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 18:16:19'
date: '2010-02-03 01:00:47'
node_type: forum
title: "Web fonts - foundries allowing sIFR, FLIR, cuf\xF3n, @font-face, etc."

---
