---
author:
  name: tlshu
body: "Professional typographers and designers,\r\n\r\nI've been redesigning our school
  newspaper for weeks/months when I can fit it in between my schoolwork.\r\nI'm throwing
  it up for critique here.\r\nI'll also post what I started with.\r\nPlease let me
  know your honest opinions.\r\nIs the new design more succesful? If so, why?\r\nIs
  the nameplate too edgy?\r\nI'm eager to hear anything you can offer me.\r\n\r\nMany
  thanks,\r\n\r\nLuke\r\n\r\nOLD\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frontpageold_4154.jpg]\r\nNEW\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Front-Page_6713.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Also, I should mention that we're currently pushing for this to reach approval
    by the powers that be, and we're having a hard time. So anything that you feel
    makes this a true update rather than a mere face change would be great to hear.\r\n\r\nDue
    to no budget at all, ha, we're working with Bodoni, Univers, and New Schoolbook
    Century for the body.\r\n\r\nPreviously we were working with no styles of any
    kind, master pages, object library, etc.\r\nAfter putting together hundreds of
    styles and creating a real grid structure, I'm ready for this to hit the press."
  created: '2010-02-03 14:25:42'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: "Wow, the first one is a real eyesore. Your redesign is striking. What typeface
    is the logo set in?\r\nI say well done. Its exactly what needs to happen to our
    crappy college paper. Bodoni and Univers\r\nlook good together."
  created: '2010-02-03 16:02:42'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I really like this redesign. So much cleaner and pleasing to read. (The quality
    of the pictures probably also helps with that). It looks like a hybrid newspaper
    / magazine.\r\n\r\n<cite>What typeface is the logo set in?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    custom by LShuman. You can see the process [[http://typophile.com/node/61212|here]]."
  created: '2010-02-03 17:53:17'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "I really dig the consistent color/nameplate/layout/etc\r\nI really like this
    and the nameplate crit threads. Inspiring work.\r\n\r\nWhere I work designs with
    a fairly limited set of fonts and each project has next to no budget. I'd like
    to put together a list of common/free/inexpensive fonts that still get the job
    done. That being said, its not for evil- it is for (my)good. I get that type designers
    need to feed themselves. It hurts being in jobs without the budgets to use good
    type.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, aside of the obvious arguments, is there a thread
    of arguments/a success story about calling for a budget to purchase font licenses?
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 19:32:30'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ah, memories...\r\n\r\nBack when I was on our college paper we had to set
    our masthead in 100% cyan as that was the only color the printer could get consistent.
    ;o)\r\n\r\nAs for your redesign, it feels VERY solid and a definite improvement.
    You have a lot more messaging 'above the fold' but it doesn't feel crowded at
    all. Nice balance.\r\n\r\nAs for the masthead, I like it. If I had to nitpick,
    I'd maybe suggest playing with the 'the' a bit so it's not as dominate as the
    'Echo'. I do like the one-line horizontal lock-up, though, so that might be a
    challenge to keep it both horizontal, but downplay the 'the' some (perhaps under/over
    score it?).\r\n\r\nAs for the body copy, it looks good. Hard to fully judge at
    this size, but the article with body copy spanning columns (lower right) feels
    rather tight with its leading. Perhaps there's a secondary leading setting for
    those wider copy blocks.\r\n\r\nThe only thing that I don't like about it all
    is the ornate border around the softball article. It feels out of place and extraneous.
    \r\n\r\nLove the colors, BTW. And nice use of white space. "
  created: '2010-02-03 20:01:46'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "My university's paper did a redesign my sophomore year (I wasn't part of
    the staff then; now I'm design director), and we were fortunate enough to have
    money in our budget to license Meta and Meta Serif. I've been told that Chronicle
    and Whitney were also considered, and the person who spearheaded the redesign
    says he kind of wishes he had gone with the H&FJ typefaces, but ultimately Meta
    was cheaper, so that's what they went with. It's worked out rather well for us.\r\n\r\nYour
    redesign looks great. I'm assuming you're a broadsheet and not a tabloid, or else
    devoting that much space to the nameplate would be excessive. Centered headlines
    and drop caps are both interesting choices. I'm not sure I would carry those to
    the inside of the paper, but they look good on the front page. You also might
    want to consider something other than New Century Schoolbook, but I understand
    that you have limited choices.\r\n\r\nMake sure you write a really good design
    manual. The guys who did the redesign a few years ago didn't write one, so now
    I'm stuck trying to pull one together before I graduate, and I wasn't even part
    of the redesign. Don't rush it through. Make sure you think of everything that
    could need an icon. Also come up with some infographic design standards. Obviously
    there's going to be some flexibility, but what typefaces should they use (Univers
    and Bodoni, probably) and what your primary colors are should be well-defined.\r\n\r\nHave
    you tried doing a parallel layout with each issue? You need to make sure that
    your redesign is flexible.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to sound condescending; it's just
    that since you've only been working on it for a few weeks I wanted to make sure
    you're covering all of the bases. Advice from one newspaper designer to another."
  created: '2010-02-03 20:17:47'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "The new design is a giant upgrade. I liked it very much.\r\n\r\nPoints to
    improve:\r\n\r\n<strong>1</strong>. Sidebar at left must have a greater leading
    in headlines.\r\n\r\n<strong>2</strong>. \"World\" headline must use the same
    style adopted in the others (with Univers).\r\n\r\n<strong>3</strong>. \"In Brief\"
    column could have more white space between the notes.\r\n\r\n<strong>4</strong>.
    Headline in box \"Girl from...\" breaks the global style, is harder to read and
    less attractive due to the hyphens. Consider that headline in just one column
    are hardly good.\r\n\r\n<strong>5</strong>. The contour of box \"Girl from...\"
    conflicts with the line marking the left sidebar. Try using a light gray background
    to this box, with no stroke. And then let the sidebar \"In Brief\" without background.\r\n\r\n<strong>6</strong>.
    The combination Bodoni italic/Univers condensed works very well. So well I would
    try to repeat the schema within the news area applying all caps Univers in some
    element there (adding a section name or even just converting author's name to
    all caps).\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-03 22:37:40'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Thanks tremendously for the input everyone. I have more specific questions
    and revisions coming, but real fast I thought I'd get a quick opinion on these
    alternate flags...\r\n\r\nI just placed the artwork in there, so it would need
    to reworked for sure, but in light of some of your thoughts about the hierarchy
    of the \"the\" in the logo, I figured I'd post these older concepts up.\r\n\r\nLet
    me know! This is really helpful to me.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fps_5368.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/fps2_6227.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-04 04:14:11'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: The paper's so nicely laid out I just want to click on it...
  created: '2010-02-04 04:28:42'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "How about putting \"The\" into the top line, so it reads something like:\r\n\r\n\r\nTHE
    TAYLOR UNIVERSITY\r\n\r\n\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007ECHO\r\n\r\n\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007\u2007SINCE
    \ 1913\r\n\r\n\r\nOtherwise it might seem inconsistent with so many typefaces."
  created: '2010-02-07 19:22:47'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'I like the first version: THE ECHO. It fits the space better.'
  created: '2010-02-07 21:05:43'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "The second one of the \u2018old designs\u2019 for the logo, if you ask me."
  created: '2010-02-08 00:14:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I really like the new masthead, but find the single word \"Echo\" too small
    on the page.\r\nImagine this in a newsbox, or a rack in a store.\r\n\r\nThe pictures
    need captions--that's where people's eyes go.\r\n\r\nThe left hand column was
    better in the original, because each item was titled similarly. I have no idea
    what kind of link the text in those pretty boxes the guy is looking at are supposed
    to be doing. By making their colours the same as his photo, you imply that he
    is in some way associated with all three.\r\n\r\nFor a meaningful comparison,
    your redesign should have exactly the same content as the old one, unless there
    really are plans for editorial change. Are you working closely enough with the
    editor?\r\n\r\nYou're bunching:\r\nTry to mix sans and serif more. \r\nTry to
    spread colour across the page more.\r\ne.g., Sans dropcaps in colour.\r\n\r\nWhat
    will you do when your headline doesn't have eight words all four letters long?
    Send it back for re-write?\r\nThe picture cropping is arbitrary, constrained by
    the layout. Why did you chop off the top and bottom of the woman's head? Why the
    dead space of the man's chest and above his head? Your layout should accomodate
    pleasingly cropped photos.\r\n\r\nSorry to be so harsh, the new design has tasty
    type styling and white space, and the skyboxes are nicely done, but the old one
    is more functional and the layout a better template (easier to follow) to accommodate
    the variability of stories, despite its cramped spacing.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 01:40:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You have created a magazine, not a newspaper. That stacked headline uses
    way too much space. No newspaper editor in the country would allow it. Not a very
    successful design in my opinion. It looks weak, more fitting for the weekend supplement
    than for hard news.\r\n\r\nAnd the masthead and all of that white space uses too
    much front page real estate."
  created: '2010-02-08 01:52:40'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I like the direction the changes are going - much fresher. I've always found
    Newseum to be a great reference source.\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/default.asp\r\n\r\nHonolulu
    Star Bulletin's front page: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/hr.asp?fpVname=HI_SB&ref_pge=gal&b_pge=3"
  created: '2010-02-08 05:18:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That stacked headline uses way too much space.\"\r\n\r\nThat only mattered
    back in the days when ad columns were sold. Since no one is advertising in print
    newspapers anymore, we can now use effective white space again. \r\n\r\n;o)"
  created: '2010-02-08 05:45:42'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Thanks for the further criticism.\r\nIn 10 minutes I threw in our content
    from this past week, just to put things into a little more real perspective.\r\nThings
    like that boxed headline were totally unrealistic, ha. I wasn't thinking straight
    when i put that fake content in.\r\nI think it's fair to compare what I've done
    to a magazine. Honestly, the content that we put together weekly is more magazine-like
    as I see it. We often are struggling to fill space. \r\nI tried to make a couple
    suggested changes that I could remember, but I'll have to do more later.\r\nAgain
    I really appreciate all the help. I am very new to editorial design.\r\nAnyone
    have an opinion on a modulating color palette? You can see her i changed the colors
    to correlate to a fairly hideous graph I made this last week. I would have done
    things differently with the new layout, ha.\r\n\r\nFeel free to be harsh, if it's
    going to come out sharp in the end, it needs to be beaten into shape.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echoold_3712.jpg]\r\n\r\nVS.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB5Frontpage_3682.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-08 14:39:06'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "terminal design -\r\n\r\nI know of your agency and if you're James Montalbano,
    I value your opinion immensely. Again I understand that this feels magazine-like,
    but frankly, our newspaper IS a weekend supplement. It's printed on Friday and
    is 8 pages long.\r\nDo you have an opinion on the nameplate/masthead area specifically?
    It would mean a lot to hear further suggestions from someone so seriously in the
    know.\r\n\r\nThanks again"
  created: '2010-02-11 03:19:41'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I don't like the new color palette. You can and should definitely alter your
    infographics to fit your design, not the other way around. Do you always have
    four-color printing on your front page?\r\n\r\nAlso, it's good that you tried
    it with real content, because it becomes clear that those closely-cropped photos
    that looked so nice in the mockup don't work with most of the photos that you
    get. I don't think it's that much of a problem, but you lose a lot of the verticality
    of the mockup."
  created: '2010-02-11 16:24:09'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Alright, here's a better palette - back again.\r\n\r\nI'd really appreciate
    feedback on this updated nameplate. I'm currently getting a lot of flak for it,
    so I'd like to have some further opinions. I reworked the way the serifs operate
    that links it maybe a little more to the Bodoni, and \"friendlies\" it up some.\r\nDoes
    it work? It is attractive? Suitable for a weekly newspaper for college students?
    Is it too edgy?\r\nAbove all, do you have any suggestions for other options?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nameplateNEW_6376.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-11 19:04:34'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Luke,\r\n\r\nSince your 8-pager is really a supplement/magazine I think you
    are pretty close to a solution. I do think there is too much white space at the
    top on you're latest mock-up. \r\n\r\nThe serif headline fonts seems too light
    for some of the uses. NEW APARTMENTS ANNOUNCED could be in a slightly bolder and
    wider design. Balanced Budget and J-TERM would benefit from a a bolder more condensed
    look. The all caps settings in Opinion and World are a bit too large (you've had
    to hyphenate Christianity, not a great sign if you can't fit a single word in
    the column)) and while stylish, the all caps compressed setting in these sections
    as well as the eyebrows might be a bit hard to read. Mixed case perhaps?\r\n\r\nI
    know this is only a mock-up, but you should pay better attention to the line breaks
    in the decks. No reason to hyphenate Sundance or Swallow, and the Tuition Dollars
    deck could be re-broken for a more appealing rag.\r\n\r\nI would also change the
    drop cap style in the boxed feature to give the page a bit more texture. Maybe
    a sans serif.\r\n\r\nJames Montalbano"
  created: '2010-02-11 19:45:48'
- author:
    name: Joshua
  body: "I second that the all caps settings in the very left column are a bit too
    large. And their leading is too tight in my opinion, as well as the leading of
    the diagram\u2019s slab serif title, the all caps settings above the header, and
    maybe the \u201CJ-TERM CLASS \u2026\u201D heading, too.\r\n\r\nWhy are two headings
    ragged right, one centered? Why are two in all caps, one in mixed case?  Treat
    similar things the same way. And why do you use a different font (slab serif)
    in the diagram\u2019s title?"
  created: '2010-02-11 22:10:50'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB122_3783.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB12_5297.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-15 14:23:25'
- author:
    name: amp343
  body: "I generally dig the redesign - especially the top third of the paper or so
    with all the white space & fun-to-digest teasers.\r\n\r\nHowever, as a former
    editor & designer for my college paper, I recommend that you always design with
    your paper's actual content in mind. Also, think about the practical capabilities
    of the production staff on a nightly basis. Sure, your redesign looks great -
    but will the staff be capable of putting it together night in and night out? \r\n\r\nIt's
    much easier for amateur editors & paginators to just throw together stacked-up
    modules (like in the current design). That's basically what happened with our
    paper, and the head editors were still there till 2 am every night.\r\n\r\nJust
    something to think about!"
  created: '2010-02-17 03:09:16'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "The design is very good. And it seems viable to a weekly 8-page newspaper,
    especially if you work with styles for characters, paragraphs, objects and tables.\r\n\r\nAs
    the new project makes good use of white space, you must consider managing a little
    problem this sample shows. You have two B&W pictures within a small distance.
    Both are dark and over the main one you did add a graph where dark colours are
    also predominant. In this case, there is very much darkness in this region.\r\n\r\nYou
    have some options to reduce this darkness. As the header picture is small, it
    would be better to work on the main one. You may turn it lighter and edit the
    black background on the right to get a photo in lavish grey. Even a duotone effect
    is suitable.\r\n\r\n(Of course, this is not an error, I'm pointing just a possible
    improvement to keep layout cleaner.)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 04:14:42'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "amp343-\r\n\r\nYeah I appreciate that. And we're definitely facing some operations
    restructuring. Currently pages are layed out by different editors of respective
    pages, which has been a nightmare. Especially with no governing styles, and a
    group of people that barely understand indesign, a lot of time is wasted every
    week. The idea now is the 2 or 3 of us that can comprehend stylesheets and know
    indesign well will do all of the layout, provided the content earlier (that's
    the plan). We'll see how it goes in our first week.\r\n\r\nHaving put together
    some hundreds of styles for this paper so far, I understand it all really well
    and can lay out a page in a couple minutes if I have everything. Unfortunately
    we wait until 11 sometimes for content, so it's a tricky business.\r\n\r\nFreiburger-\r\n\r\nThanks
    for pointing those things out. I like the duotone idea.\r\nIf we can argue our
    superiors into buying the new logo, we may be rolling with this new design on
    friday, so I'll be sure to post what that looks like."
  created: '2010-02-17 14:22:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<cite>Freiburger-...</cite>\r\nHope you won't name the newspaper as \"Ucho\"
    after the redesign! :-)"
  created: '2010-02-17 15:46:11'
- author:
    name: JeffPeppers
    picture: 129498
  body: "I've liked everything aside of the pink/indigo example you used matching
    your original graph\r\n\r\ngreat work, great thread"
  created: '2010-02-17 16:33:40'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Because the name of the paper is so short, we've considered changing it to,
    say \"The Freaking Echo\" for aesthetic purposes, ha.\r\nThanks Jeff - I agree,
    haha.\r\n\r\nI'll be working on layout things in keeping with James M's and Joshua's
    suggestions (super helpful).\r\n\r\nIf I could get some input regarding this nameplate,
    I would be grateful.\r\nAny changes I need to make? The first logo here is what
    I started with, and some iterations follow.\r\nSome have said the first is edgier
    and better in that sense, others say the serifs are much more attractive in the
    3rd.\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\nAny reasons why this look is bad? Or good?\r\nAny approval/disapproval
    you could give would be fantastic.\r\nI'm hoping to convince our editors/supervisors/department
    that this is a good choice.\r\nAnd seriously, do you think this is better than
    the old \"rss\" nameplate?\r\nI need persuasive ammunition.\r\n\r\nThanks all,\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EchoLogos_5703.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-17 21:20:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I find the downward slanting arms of the E and C to be uncomfortable. I see
    that you are following the structure of the O, but they feel out of sorts to me.
    Perhaps the angle is too severe or the strokes are too heavy, but they bring too
    much attention to themselves. \r\n\r\nWhat do they look like when they follow
    the angle of the T?\r\n\r\nAlso those end bits on the E and C also seem out of
    place.\r\n\r\nMy two cents.\r\n\r\nJames M"
  created: '2010-02-17 22:17:45'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/echologo2_5198.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/echologo1_5149.gif]\r\n\r\nHow
    does this look? Is it too rigid looking?"
  created: '2010-02-18 01:33:50'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "These E's are looking pretty square I think, and maybe underbiting\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB124_6546.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-18 02:44:45'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Today the designers and I met with our coeditors to discuss this nameplate.\r\nUltimately
    they feel that the look is too \"medieval\" and would like something similar to
    what we've been using the last year.\r\nI suppose its about appearing more neutral.\r\nIn
    any case, I'm frustrated by the lack of support I'm getting for what I drew by
    hand, but I'm trying other options.\r\nAny thoughts on this Charlemagne version?
    Anything would ultimately be done custom by hand, but I'm trying different looks.\r\nIt's
    tricky to find something that doesn't conflict with the bodoni all caps headline.\r\nAny
    thoughts?\r\nAgain, anything is great to hear.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NEWLOGO_4923.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-18 21:36:49'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Who doesn't hate copperplate, but it doesn't conflict with anything else...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NEwlogocopperplate_4874.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-18 21:38:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Seems funny that if the criticism of the initial proposal was \u201Ctoo medieval,\u201D
    you would respond with Charlemagne, based as it is on tenth-century manuscript
    capitals."
  created: '2010-02-18 21:52:02'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Archer\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB127_4257.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-18 21:55:11'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Ha - too true, Kent. Didn't even think about that. Mostly because I think
    what they really want is serifs.\r\n\r\nTry this on \u2014 I like that these characters
    visually \"echo\" in a way.\r\nAgain, like I said, I would ultimately hand draw
    something like these...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FEB129_4493.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-18 22:00:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Who doesn't hate copperplate</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, I have always
    like Copperplate. Out of all your samples, I like it the best. Of course, you
    should redraw it to make the spur serifs more elegant, and balance the weight
    of the large and small caps. And of course that C needs a redraw as well.\r\n\r\nThat
    round ball terminal in Archer sort of kills the logo for me. Also that C looks
    like its falling to the right!"
  created: '2010-02-18 22:53:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I like the Archer version -- that's a nameplate one would recognise at a distance
    --, but you'd need to close the space between the CH slightly, and give a bit
    more space between the two words though. The internal space of the C is bigger
    than the wordspace, which produces a weird effect, as if it were one poorly spaced
    word -- THEECHO -- rather than two words.
  created: '2010-02-19 05:58:11'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Tough break on their not liking your previous version. I thought it was unique
    and fit really well. Their old one is crap.\r\n\r\nI'd keep the prospective nameplates
    in black (or at least the same color) for comparison's sake.\r\n\r\nMy favorite
    of these newer ones is Archer, though I might scale it back just a bit, and increase
    the wordspace between 'the' and 'echo'.\r\n\r\nKeep working hard, you'll break
    through with something.\r\n\r\n--\r\n<em>penn</em>"
  created: '2010-02-19 15:11:35'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NEW3_6640.gif]'
  created: '2010-02-19 20:58:58'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: I also prefer you original, "medieval" design. It's a pity they did not aprove
    it. But this looks good. You just need to improve the space between /E/C/H/O/
    to match /T/H/E/ ones.
  created: '2010-02-19 22:58:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "The bottom terminal of the C has a very uncomfortable angle. I'd pull the
    bottom corner back to the left a bit.\r\nAlso, the Hs looked odd without the interior
    serifs. And I agree the letter space is crap.\r\n\r\nThe O is looking a little
    small as well."
  created: '2010-02-19 23:22:07'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Thanks for the pointers, ha, I don't know what happened with that spacing.
    I must have been overzealous in getting that posted.\r\nPlease tear apart some
    more\u2014\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/echosmall_5092.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    think I will still try and draw a couple other versions \u2014 archer sans ball,
    echoey type, etc."
  created: '2010-02-24 19:52:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Consider:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/echosmall_JH_5799.gif]\r\n\r\nDropped
    crossbar and middle arm of H and E. Sheared bottom terminal of C and added spur.
    Tightened spacing of CH sequence. Widened word space."
  created: '2010-02-25 01:13:49'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "Alright, let me know what you think of these:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LatestLogo2_4571.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LatestLogo_6418.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-25 18:21:17'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Option 2 is more beatiful. But in face of the other newspaper elements, my
    vote goes to option 1.
  created: '2010-02-26 01:52:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Look at the top version. The cast shadow is causing the middle bar of the
    E and H to appear too low.
  created: '2010-02-26 02:23:15'
- author:
    name: tlshu
  body: "I thought I'd share the first 5 issues of the redesign with the crew here:\r\n\r\nThey
    certainly have their issues, especially the first 2.\r\nOur school year is complete
    so I'm down for any suggestions how to improve the layout in the fall.\r\nLet
    me know what you think.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echo1_4236.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echo2_4086.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echo3_6022.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echo4_4478.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Echo5_6028.gif]"
  created: '2010-05-07 18:14:54'
date: '2010-02-03 14:14:58'
title: Newspaper Redesign Critique!

---
