---
author:
  name: AxelHarvey
  picture: 118788
body: "Is anyone interested in collaborating on a set of astrological glyphs? I was
  directed to this forum by a successful young designer who did not want to undertake
  the project and thought I should roll my own (maybe a 30-something dynamo is not
  aware of how daunting learning curves can be to a 70-year-old). \r\n\r\nAlthough
  I have loved typography all my life, have several reference works on my shelves,
  and used to handset poetry for a small press, the discussions here have left me
  shorn of all confidence. At the very least 62 characters would be involved - most
  likely more because it would be good to provide alternatives in a few cases, particularly
  the tiny number in which I would insist on (I hope easily justified) departures
  from convention. But I am aware that the choice of glyph forms might be the smallest
  problem, compared to such questions as portability, which glyphs to design as both
  fixed- and variable-width characters, etc.\r\n\r\nThere was a discussion on astrological
  and astronomical symbols here a while ago. The participants seemed as lost in the
  astro world as I am in the typographic; but I think I can be a sound bridge between
  the two cultures.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AxelHarvey
    picture: 118788
  body: I should add that my purpose is to have a set of characters that would marry
    harmoniously and modestly with a solid old-style or transitional font, or a modern
    text font based thereon. Almost all available astrological characters are either
    ruler-and-compass stick figures, clumsy glyphs drawn with no feeling for type
    forms, or self-indulgent fancy inventions. Those that are truly elegant lack many
    necessary characters.
  created: '2010-02-04 03:42:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Those that are truly elegant lack many necessary characters.</cite>\r\n\r\nCould
    you give us some samples?\r\nMaybe some of them could be extended without the
    need to start all from scratch."
  created: '2010-02-04 10:02:14'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: 'I know many astrological and astronomical symbols exist in Unicode, mostly
    in the 2600-260D and 263D-2653 ranges. Are there any others that should be included? '
  created: '2010-02-04 19:18:44'
- author:
    name: AxelHarvey
    picture: 118788
  body: "riccard0: Zapf made elegant planet and sign symbols to go with Palatino.
    Many symbols are missing and a couple should be reworked but, anyway, I am hoping
    for a set that would be more consistent with a good workhorse typeface - one that
    could fill a heavy textbook without tiring the reader (for which Palatino is ever
    so slightly too mannered imo). There are beautiful and valid models in Renaissance
    books and even in Hellenistic manuscripts, but of course that is not what you
    mean.\r\n\r\nI have a workhorse or two in mind but I hesitate to start with that
    idea when I am asking if someone will want to work with me. There is also the
    question of how transferable to other contexts a set of symbols could/should be
    - I have no clue.\r\n\r\ncuttlefish: You are thinking of the Unicode astrological
    symbols listed in Wikipedia? The set is almost complete (the main lacuna is a
    complete and consistent set of 36-degree aspects) but the execution is ghastly
    and in a few cases absurd. \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astrological_symbols
    \r\n\r\n(And don't take their explanations of the symbols too seriously!)\r\n
    \r\nBy the way, the order and code assignments of astrological symbols I have
    seen vary from one design to the next. I suppose it doesn't matter, though it
    might be clever to adopt the Unicode range. At this point it's the least of my
    worries."
  created: '2010-02-05 01:47:33'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The Wikipedia page does hit on some symbols that are outside of the Miscellaneous
    Symbols range:[[http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U2600.pdf]], but most of them
    are in there.\r\n\r\nWhat additional symbols are needed to complete the list shown
    on the Wikipedia page?\r\n\r\n(Thanks for reminding me that I need to update my
    copies of the code charts.)"
  created: '2010-02-05 04:12:20'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Have you seen Andreas St\xF6tzner's Andron? It covers so many signs & symbols
    that I'm thinking it might have the coverage you need, or very close to it.\r\nThis
    shows its character set for the 2600 Miscellaneous Symbols block and surroundings
    (normal view for the Regular, mouseover for Italic):\r\nhttp://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=222"
  created: '2010-02-05 09:50:26'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: <em>Das Zeichenbuch</em> (<em>The Book of Signs</em>) by Rudolf Koch contains
    many astrological symbols drawn with a calligraphic touch, although I think they
    are limited to the basic ones.
  created: '2010-02-05 13:34:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> The set is almost complete (the main lacuna is a complete and consistent
    set of 36-degree aspects)\r\n\r\nI've been doing a web search, and the only symbol
    I've found for the quintile is a letter Q used as a symbol; for the decile (or
    semiquintile) a letter D, and for the biquintile, bQ."
  created: '2010-02-05 16:03:55'
- author:
    name: AxelHarvey
    picture: 118788
  body: "cuttlefish: You see, I am really ignorant. Is this code list a scheme for
    typographers to observe with their own designs, or are the symbols in some way
    official? Ah, I notice this: \"The shapes of the reference glyphs used in these
    code charts are not prescriptive. Considerable variation is to be expected in
    actual fonts.\" Phew! ...because some of these executions are really bad. And
    some missing aspects and variations would have to replace other items such as
    the hammer and sickle.\r\n \r\naltaira: That is a great way to display a font,
    with mouseover for italics. The set is almost complete but not very successful
    imo. \r\n \r\nJongseong: I like Koch's signs very much - they can be blown up,
    framed, and admired on a wall. But their faux-primitive style is too distracting
    for a font meant to accompany text.\r\n \r\nquadibloc: Yes, Q seems to be what
    people use for the quintile. The others are improvisations. I have an idea for
    a rational design that would represent the entire series with minor but easily
    learned differentiations - including the tredecile (108\xB0) which everyone seems
    to ignore.\r\n \r\nMaybe I'm too critical to collaborate with anyone, should stop
    kvetching and just do this myself. But to misquote Groucho Marx, I wouldn't approve
    of anything I could do."
  created: '2010-02-05 22:06:47'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "The general point of Unicode is to assign a number to every written mark
    used in human language. These numbers are useful in developing fonts among many
    other applications. The specific design in the code charts is not prescriptive,
    but the meaning generally is, e.g.: the snowman at U+2603 could be drawn differently
    but still recognizably be a snowman; you're not supposed to put just any random
    symbol in that spot.\r\n\r\nYou can submit a request to add glyphs that you feel
    necessary to complete the astrological/astronomical symbol group to the Unicode
    consortium, but that can be a complicated process. [[http://www.unicode.org/pending/proposals.html]]\r\n\r\nOf
    course, that doesn't get you the font that you need in short order, a very different
    question indeed.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 23:32:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "You see, I am really ignorant. Is this code list a scheme for typographers
    to observe with their own designs, or are the symbols in some way official? Ah,
    I notice this: \"The shapes of the reference glyphs used in these code charts
    are not prescriptive. Considerable variation is to be expected in actual fonts.\"
    Phew! ...because some of these executions are really bad. And some missing aspects
    and variations would have to replace other items such as the hammer and sickle.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nUnicode
    is a standard for which character has what code, just like ASCII. ASCII just says
    that the number 64 stands for the uppercase letter A, not whether that A is in
    Courier or Times Roman. And, in fact, the Unicode document warns people against
    stealing the typefaces they were graciously allowed to use to print the thing
    as a way to create a Unicode typeface.\r\n\r\nISO 8858-1, the 8-bit code that
    added accented characters to the \"high bit\" range, was \"official\", but not
    compulsory. One could put Japanese katakana in the high bit range instead, or
    different accented letters to support Hungarian and certain other languages. Even
    ASCII had \"national use\" positions.\r\n\r\nTo be Unicode-compliant, you would
    not replace the hammer and sickle with the biquintile... instead, you would put
    the biquintile 'way up in the \"private use area\". To be usable on some older
    systems, you might prefer to make an 8-bit font, not a Unicode font, and replace
    the accented letters by the aspects instead."
  created: '2010-02-06 04:43:53'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "@AxelHarvey: Judging by your posts, I think I know and have what you are
    looking for, that is, at least the symbols which are included in the Unicode chart,
    but it should not be too difficult to design a couple of more \u2013 based on
    the already existing ones, to preserve the stylistic unity and the \u2019weight\u2019
    \u2013 and put them somewhere in the PUA, so they can be accessed even in the
    non-OT-savvy text appliances, such as Word, for instance. As for the style, they
    are part of a Garaldesque bookish font I\u2019m working on, which is what you
    seem to prefer anyway, so that\u2019s already one thing we have in common; and
    the other being that I\u2019m also too critical to collaborate with anyone \u2013
    well, it can\u2019t go wrong, can it?\r\n\r\nPerhaps we should get in touch outside
    this forum, as there seems not to be too much interest for your proposal anyway;
    only, I don\u2019t know how it\u2019s done, there being, understandably, no e-mail
    addresses here, and this is the very first time I take part in these jolly ado\u2019s
    (which I silently relish for some years now).\r\n\r\nGreetings, everyone.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 21:59:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know how it\u2019s done</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/51973/contact\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/55181/contact\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 23:20:31'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: Much obliged, riccard0.
  created: '2010-02-08 00:52:32'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Mr. Harvey and others,\r\n\r\nI got a bit confused over the mixing up UC
    coverage, font design and font delivery issues in this discussion. What is it
    what you actually require?\r\n\r\nWith regard to Andron, I would be obliged if
    you could clarify what \u201C<cite>not very successful</cite>\u201D means.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, an entire new astrological block with about 116 characters will be introduced
    to the next version of Unicode.\r\n\r\nRegards, A.St."
  created: '2010-02-10 09:05:24'
- author:
    name: AxelHarvey
    picture: 118788
  body: "Sorry for my absence - it's been hectic (including a furnace breakdown now
    fixed).\r\n \r\nAs for the Andron astrological characters there are two types
    of consideration. First, there are what I would call \"substantive form\" issues
    which have to do with preferences and taste, so there one's decisions are as good
    as anyone else's. For example I would prefer a Z shape for Jupiter rather than
    a curve for historical and symbolic reasons, but that is a personal matter. \r\n
    \r\nThen there are \"execution\" issues. For example, I find there are too many
    serifs, and they are too strong. Here I think one's inspiration should be numerals.
    The Andron digits 0 to 9 - which I like - have serifs on the 1, what might be
    called half-serifs on the 2, 4, 5, and 7 (only one on each), and a discreet finishing
    tick at the top of 3 (if I am seeing correctly). The same restraint should apply
    to astrological symbols. As it is there are right-angled full serifs on the Jupiter,
    Saturn, Uranus, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Capricorn glyphs, and I find
    them annoying. The angled half-serifs, as on the Libra glyph and the lower end
    of the outer vertical strokes of Uranus, are fine. The Neptune glyph has three
    harpoon barbs instead of serifs. I know this is a reference to Neptune's trident
    and it is often done that way, but to me it is sliding from typography towards
    illustration.\r\n \r\nAll the above is \"sous toute r\xE9serve\" since I feel
    like a snail criticizing a football team. I can't comment on the weight and shading
    because I have not seen the astro characters blended with a block of text.\r\n
    \r\nThe new 116-character Unicode block is good news."
  created: '2010-02-14 02:16:28'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I honour your detailed discussion of design details!\r\n\r\nFirst, [[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=218|on
    this page (scroll down a bit)]] everyone can see an actual piece of text (by I.
    Newton) which contains astrological and measurement signs.\r\n\r\nThis is it what
    we are talking about:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/andron_astro_3870.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    *coining* (dt. Auspr\xE4gung) \u2013 or \u201Cexecution\u201D \u2013 of those
    signs is a matter which indeed raises some questions, for me too. Is it about
    taste only \u2013 or can justified decisions be made here?\r\n\r\n<cite>I would
    prefer a Z shape for Jupiter rather than a curve for historical and symbolic reasons,
    but that is a personal matter.</cite>\r\n\u2013 if there are historical and symbolic
    reasons for this preference, this is certainly not a matter of mere personal taste.
    I know both the pointed and the rounded Jupiter sign and found the latter more
    appropriate to accompany a Venetian-style font, mostly from my knowlegde of old
    prints. But if you have deeper insights in the nature of that sign I would be
    obliged to learn about it. \r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 too many serifs, and they are
    too strong. Here I think one's inspiration should be numerals</cite>\r\nMaybe
    you\u2019re right with this, maybe not. The Venus often gets serifed crossbars
    which I omitted. Maybe the Jupiter and the Sagittarius would do with less as well.
    But the Uranus and Pluto signs definitely relate to Latin Capitals and an \u2018archaeological\u2019
    glyph shaping ought to make this visible, in my opinion. (You\u2019ll notice a
    second Pluto glyph, I\u2019m not entirely happy with both).\r\n\r\n<cite>The Neptune
    glyph has three harpoon barbs instead of serifs. I know this is a reference to
    Neptune's trident and it is often done that way, but to me it is sliding from
    typography towards illustration.</cite>\r\n\u2013 the path you\u2019re sliding
    on is inherent in typography! You can\u2019t escape. \u2013 What are you then
    to make of the arrow point of the Mars? Also too illustrative? At least my Neptun
    glyphs have no serifs on the crossbars, which you can see often elsewhere.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the Virgo I know of an interpretation as a kind of m_r ligature (\u201CMaria\u201D),
    therefore the resemblance of the Latin m. The same element in the Scorpio sign,
    I don\u2019t know of any such interpretation as yet. But for reasons of visual
    consistency the respective parts of both glyph have to match.\r\n\r\nTwelve sixpacks
    of fine beer to him or her who writes a profound historical-typographical survey
    upon \u201CThe shapes of astrological signs\u201D.\r\n(\u2013 Or is it existing
    already??)\r\n\r\n(And good luck with your furnace! Mine one is lousy too.)\r\nA.
    St. "
  created: '2010-02-22 11:35:50'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annie_Scott_Dill_Maunder\">Annie S.D.
    Maunder (1868\u20131947)</a>, <em>The Origin of the Symbols of the Planets</em>.
    \u201CThe Observatory\u201D 57 (1934): 238\u2013247. [Bibcode <a href=\"http://articles.adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/nph-iarticle_query?letter=.&classic=YES&bibcode=1934Obs....57..238M&page=&type=SCREEN_VIEW&data_type=PDF_LOW&send=GET&filetype=.pdf\">1934Obs....57..238M</a>]\r\n\r\n@AxelHarvey
    \u2014 Did you find someone to collaborate with?"
  created: '2012-01-31 23:08:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm curious as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-01 01:54:45'
- author:
    name: Loaded4th
    picture: 127763
  body: "Hi;\r\n\r\nI've created several astrological fonts, exclusive, shareware
    and SIL. I'm about to release a Unicode version using assigned and custom placements
    with nearly 200 glyphs. It's a simple pen-plot design. I'll post the link when
    it is available.\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-14 21:45:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Despite not taking astrology seriously, on my web site, at [[http://www.quadibloc.com/other/as02.htm]]
    I have an illustration of many astrological symbols. It is far from exhaustive,
    as there are glyphs for many more asteroids than I have shown.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Loaded4th
      picture: 127763
    body: "Impressive set Quadblock. I have just uploaded a font called StarfisherUni.
      It's a SIL Open Font Licensed astrological font with Unicode assigned and custom
      positions. See Starfisher-UNI.pdf for a complete list of symbols and assignments.\r\nThis
      site has the source:  [[http://openfontlibrary.org/en/font/starfisheruni|download]]\r\nA
      more classic astrology font can be downloaded from [[http://sites.google.com/site/cosmoramaent/home/download|here]]
      as well as alchemy, enochian, American Indian symbols and Cherokee. The latter
      is currently being updated for Unicode.\r\n"
    created: '2014-10-16 21:05:52'
  created: '2014-10-16 03:02:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I drew Zodiac signs for Oneleigh recently (although not yet added to the
    commercial release).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Oneleigh_Zodiac_5011.jpg]"
  created: '2014-10-16 03:19:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: Very beautiful.
  created: '2014-10-16 08:28:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Yes, the Zodiac signs for Oneleigh are, in general, beautiful. But I think
    the one for Capricorn needs to be reviewed, as its shape is unconventional and
    hard to recognize. It's supposed to look more like a "V" than an "n" in the form
    that was chosen.
  created: '2014-10-16 14:49:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks, Andreas.\r\n\r\nPoint taken, John. I was aware of the issue, and
    differentiated Capricorn from Scorpio in that regard, but perhaps not enough.
    Revisiting the standard: http://unicode-table.com/en/sets/signs-of-the-zodiac/
    , I see that I could make the hump sharp(er), not so round."
  created: '2014-10-16 18:29:01'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "btw,\r\nI\u2019m about to release an Andron Astrological font these days.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schild_Andron_1_ALC_3_T_3831.png]"
  created: '2014-10-16 23:35:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\nAfter I posted my comment, though, I checked around on the
    Web for images of the Capricorn glyph, as I could only find one of the two forms
    I was familiar with in specimen books I was looking through. In doing that, I
    see that glyphs similar to yours <em>are</em> also in common use, and so my comment
    appears to be mistaken - even though a few old fogies like myself may have trouble
    with recognizing it.\r\n\r\nAndreas St\xF6tzner:\r\nI see you're also including
    a lot of <em>alchemical</em> characters."
  created: '2014-10-17 07:12:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, what is the gold standard of traditional zodiac symbols, in foundry
    type?\r\nIt\u2019s hard for someone such as myself with no knowledge of astrology
    to get a bead on.\r\n\r\nAndreas, be careful when delving into the occult\u2026"
  created: '2014-10-17 17:47:59'
- author:
    name: Loaded4th
    picture: 127763
  body: "Nick, I'm not aware of any standard for the zodiac symbols. I think a number
    of artists have added their own flair or style. I know of three different symbols
    for Capricorn, which tend to be regional.\r\nAndreas, I don't see any astrological
    symbols in your character map. You present a nice and consistent style, rather
    than the one displayed by Unicode.org and others which is inconsistent with some
    glyphs appearing to be a rip-off of ones I created and some being butchered--I'm
    referring the the thick-nib pen style symbols.\r\nA bit off-topic, but while alchemy
    can transform, it is akin to basic chemistry with one notable exception: Alchemists
    consider the life force in any cell, while chemists do not generally take this
    position. The original Order of the Rosicrucians use alchemy even today. The symbols
    used in alchemy have changed over the centuries, due mainly to certain individuals
    defrauding people with the use of the symbols, once they were known. \r\n"
  created: '2014-10-17 19:55:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would consult a few symbol dictionaries (such as Liungman's) for guidance
    on this, as I imagine they would be mindful of standard renderings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-18 01:07:21'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> Andreas, be careful when delving into the occult\u2026\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    afraid it\u2019s far too late for that advice. And I always thought I\u2019m among
    members of the brotherhood here ;)\r\nthanks anyway!\r\n\r\n> I don't see any
    astrological symbols \r\n\r\nyeep \u2026 right. This image shows the new 1F7xx
    Alchemical block. But the new font will contain all relevant astrological signs
    as well. The two subjects are intertwined in many ways, so the respective characters
    do form a sort of a set, i.m.o.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schild_Andron_SUPPL_T_4745.png]"
  created: '2014-10-18 18:23:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I could only find one site, that loaded too slowly, showing Hermann Zapf's
    astrological characters.\r\n\r\nI don't have a gold standard - but a standard
    at the low end of the scale, what people are most familiar with seeing, can be
    found in the Linotype specimen book...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/astrol1_5561.jpg]"
  created: '2014-10-19 03:43:40'
- author:
    name: Loaded4th
    picture: 127763
  body: "Here's some samples of two of the fonts I was referring to:\r\n\r\nStarfisher\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Snapshot1_5883.jpg]\r\n\r\nAstro\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Snapshot2_5245.jpg]"
  created: '2014-10-19 22:50:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This search result may or not be useful, but at least it would be entertaining:\r\n\r\n[[http://trixietreats.blogspot.ca/2008/11/astrology-illustrations-virgil-finlay.html]]"
  created: '2014-10-20 02:58:35'
date: '2010-02-04 01:29:13'
title: Design of an astrological font

---
