---
author:
  name: designpuck
body: "Is Adobe Flash dead? (And, was it Steve Jobs in Cupertino with the candlestick
  holder?)  Here's the article from Slate: [[http://www.slate.com/id/2243422/|Slate:
  Did Steve Jobs Just Kill Flash?]]\r\n\r\nWhat does this mean for typography on the
  web? (Heck, what would this mean for typophile.com?) \r\n\r\nHow about motion graphics
  on the web? Or is this a VCR / Betamax situation\u2014answerable simply by asking
  which does the porn industry support? There's an excerpt (the \"they\" refers to
  Adobe):\r\n\r\n\"They are lazy, Jobs says. They have all this potential to do interesting
  things but they just refuse to do it. They don\u2019t do anything with the approaches
  that Apple is taking, like Carbon. Apple does not support Flash because it is so
  buggy, he says. Whenever a Mac crashes more often than not it\u2019s because of
  Flash.\r\n\r\nNo one will be using Flash, he says. The world is moving to HTML5.\""
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lazy?!\r\nPeople don't write for Carbon for the same reason most viruses
    are for Windows: installed base! And that's also the reason Jobs can't kill anything
    as huge as Flash (although apparently he <em>can</em> kill good typography). If
    HTML5 does end up killing Flash, Jobs cannot take any of the credit.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the crashing business is pure hogwash. No proper operating system can leave itself
    at the mercy of a browser plug-in!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 05:21:00'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "When Apple sneezes, the rest of the industry grabs a Kleenex.\r\n\r\nEven
    if Jobs in passing mentioned HTML5, you can bet there's going to be a lot of re-coding
    and transitioning going on. "
  created: '2010-02-04 05:26:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I think Steve actually has to sell a significant number of devices before
    Adobe has to worry about him killing Flash. Even if every Mac user buys an iPhone/iPad
    tomorrow Apple\u2019s Flashless devices will still have a smaller user base than
    Opera or Chrome, neither of which is relevant commercially. And the iPad could
    very well be the next Apple TV, which, like the iPad, was great, awesome, amazing,
    and totally going to destroy a bunch of stuff, and has turned out to be little
    more than a hacking platform for basement dwellers who lack the social skills
    required to play WoW.\r\n\r\nBut I do think that all this speculation is a sign
    that Flash is on its way out. A few years ago Flash/Flex seemed to have a brilliant
    future ahead and now we\u2019re all salivating at the thought of a web with no
    Flash at all. If this is an omen of how we can expect feelings about Flash to
    trend it seems like the Adobe/Macromedia buyout will be right up there with AOL
    buying Time Warner in the history of corporate takovers gone horribly wrong."
  created: '2010-02-04 05:48:16'
- author:
    name: samurai
    picture: 119005
  body: "@James: What does modifying an AppleTV have to do with \"basement dwellers
    who lack the social skills required to play WoW\" ? Does that also apply to people
    who jailbreak their iPhones, or other forms of hacking that improve a device?
    \r\n\r\nSteve Jobs and Apple will have little or nothing to do with the acceptance
    of HTML5 nor the killing of Flash on the web. Like any web standard, it takes
    years for adoption rates to catch up. IE6 was *just* bumped by IE8 in most-used
    browser in the world. HTML5 does not work in IE6, but it does play Flash. If a
    web browser nearly a decade old is still being used by this many people, it's
    going to take a very long time for HTML5 to completely replace Flash as a go-to
    source for video on the web. Flash is still a great platform for online games,
    as well, something you won't see replaced by HTML5 anytime soon. So while the
    battle lines may have been drawn by the outspoken Apple leader, it represents
    very little more than the frustrations of one man lashing out at a company he
    wishes would develop software that worked better on his OS. That gripe, of course,
    is a two way street.\r\n\r\nHTML5 is here, it's great, and it simplifies a lot
    of things. But it's going to have to share the spotlight with Flash at best, and
    that's not going to change anytime soon."
  created: '2010-02-04 06:03:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Flash has been wallowing in the hands of Adobe for some time. They bought
    it hoping it was a magic pill but didn't do a whole lot with it.\r\n\r\nIt's not
    dead, for sure, but HTML5, Canvas, jQuery and other solid JS libraries combined
    have all been gaining quite a bit of momentum as a solid replacement for a lot
    of what Flash currently does for us on the web.\r\n\r\nSteve Jobs has merely lent
    a LOT MORE momentum to the cause.\r\n\r\n\"People don't write for Carbon for the
    same reason most viruses are for Windows: installed base!\"\r\n\r\nThat's incorrect
    and I'm not sure what that has to do with Flash. \r\n\r\n\"And that's also the
    reason Jobs can't kill anything as huge as Flash\"\r\n\r\nNot alone, of course.
    But there are plenty of folks more than happy to let Flash go by the wayside for
    a lot of things. \r\n\r\nAnd the future of the commercial web is mobile. And mobile
    = iPhone, so people are definitely factoring this into the equation.\r\n\r\nAs
    for what it means for web typography? Not much. If anything, it just leaves more
    room open for @font-face support.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:28:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What does modifying an AppleTV have to do with \"basement dwellers
    who lack the social skills required to play WoW\"</cite>\r\n\r\nGet a sense of
    humor, man. That was a jab at AppleTV being such a failure that even self-respecting
    gearheads don\u2019t mess with it."
  created: '2010-02-04 06:35:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Apple\u2019s Flashless devices will still have a smaller user base than
    Opera or Chrome\"\r\n\r\nChrome is based on webkit, as is Safari on the iPhone.
    It's also owned by Google. Google is more than happy to go they way of HTML5 (they're
    already rolling it out on YouTube as an alternative to Flash). \r\n\r\nAnd, with
    60 million+ iphones/iTouches out there, it's not necessarily a number to sneeze
    at. \r\n\r\n\"Like any web standard, it takes years for adoption rates to catch
    up.\"\r\n\r\nUsually true. No so much with HTML5 though. I'm rather amazed at
    how fast it's picking up speed...even as it's not a final standard yet. \r\n\r\nI
    agree, however, that it's not a replacement for Flash. However, it will replace
    a lot of what Flash takes care of us for on the web. Flash will still be there
    for gaming, and, if Adobe is smart, Flash as an IDE will stick around and perhaps
    output HTML5/CSS/Canvas markup for us. "
  created: '2010-02-04 06:35:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> mobile = iPhone\r\n\r\nThat's pretty ridiculous (and will be completely
    so over time).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:36:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: James, the Apple TV makes a pretty good Boxee Box. (Though I'm patiently waiting
    for the 'real' Boxee Box so I can hook it up to my TV in my basement since I can't
    figure out WoW [or even Facebook].)
  created: '2010-02-04 06:37:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That's pretty ridiculous\"\r\n\r\nI can't speak for you neck of the woods,
    but in the US, it accounts for 30% of the mobile market.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:40:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Well I apologize to any hardware hackers I have offended. I\u2019m off to
    research new-old-stock vacuum tubes for my amplifier now\u2026"
  created: '2010-02-04 06:58:40'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "The \"Carbon\" comment is puzzling, and I wonder if Steve meant Cocoa. Carbon
    is the intermediate API that bridges OS 9 and OS X. Carbon apps can run on either,
    and I believe all Adobe apps except Lightroom use Carbon.\r\n\r\nWhat Adobe hasn't
    done is rewrite Photoshop and the rest of their Creative Suite in Cocoa, which
    they'll need to do to make their apps 64-bit and for other technical advantages.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Flash, I'd say the sooner it's forgotten, the better. What a blight. I suppose
    it can linger for games, but using it as a video player or, let's say, for inline
    font rendering is like using a flame thrower to light a cigarette.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 07:10:36'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: "Wow, interesting discussion.\r\nI wonder only what will be the future possibilities
    of using the very typeface I want in Internet not depending on what the user has
    installed on his system. For me, personally, that\u2019s what it\u2019s all about.\r\nBecause
    I definitely refuse to go on designing websites that show mostly Arial, Times,
    Georgia and so on.\r\nWhy are the no moves in this direction? To be able to set
    texts in whatever typeface (I mean that ones I have legaly acquired) I like without
    making a JPG of it or using Flash.\r\n\r\nIs there simply to little interest in
    the world to think about a tiny question like this?\r\n\r\nStefan"
  created: '2010-02-04 09:53:09'
- author:
    name: CurveDoctor
    picture: 115441
  body: "<cite>IE6 was *just* bumped by IE8 in most-used browser in the world.\r\n\r\n<code>And
    there is no Flash player yet for IE8! (64bit) Steve might be correct with \"Adobe
    lazy\".\r\n<code>Adobe has a record of killing the stuff they bought. \r\n<code>Flash
    was the last environment allowing razorsharp small pixel fonts across platforms.
    \r\n\r\n<code>Single pixel rest in peace."
  created: '2010-02-04 10:12:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Great Comments!\r\n\r\n> I wonder if Steve meant Cocoa. \r\n\r\nI'm sure
    he did. \r\n\r\n>...[Flash] for inline font rendering is like using a flame thrower
    to...\r\n\r\nto warm a baby, imho.\r\n\r\nThe interesting thing to me about this
    discussion is that Adobe font technology was good enough for Next, and a render-alike
    version was good enough for \"Quartz Type\" on the Mac. Yet when Apple put a lot
    of effort, they were not lazy, into developing TT, (font technology less lazy
    than Adobe's), where'd ya put it Steve?\r\n \r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 14:25:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Flash was the last environment allowing\r\n> razorsharp small pixel fonts
    across platforms.\r\n\r\nAnd who made us have to depend on Flash for this?\r\n\r\n>>
    I wonder if Steve meant Cocoa.\r\n> I'm sure he did. \r\n\r\nI understand that
    salesmen aren't very technical, but come on!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 14:28:54'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "adobe CTO's take\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/conversations/2010/02/open_access_to_content_and_app.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 14:32:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@stefan seifert\r\n<em>I wonder only what will be the future possibilities
    of using the very typeface I want in Internet not depending on what the user has
    installed on his system. For me, personally, that\u2019s what it\u2019s all about.\r\nWhy
    are there no moves in this direction? </em>\r\n\r\nThere's plenty of moves in
    this direction. IE, Firefox, Safari, and Chrome all have reasonably functional
    implementations of @font-face. Opera, <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/font-face-in-opera-10-5-pre-alpha-stinks-despite-snapshot-hype/\">less
    so</a>, but at least it seems to be on their minds. As it should.\r\nFirefox 3.6
    was just released with support for the compressed font-wrapper format WOFF. Plus
    a major bug regarding synthesized bolding was fixed. Looks pretty solid now.\r\nMuch
    more is known now as to how a cross-browser implementation needs to be handled
    in the CSS.\r\nThere are tools and test pages and how-to information on the way
    that will make it easier for web developers to compress fonts, subset fonts, and
    view fonts in the browser.\r\nThere are JavaScript techniques being developed
    to smooth out the differences between implementations.\r\n\r\nI, too, am sick
    to death of looking at Georgia, Arial, and Verdana. \r\n\r\nThere's plenty going
    on.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 17:05:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[tracking]'
  created: '2010-02-04 18:30:03'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: The "American liberal elites" are (once again) dramatically overestimating
    the power and influence of Apple in the computer and Internet world at large.
    It's both comical and tragic how helplessly these intelligent and otherwise rational
    people fall for this (admittedly charismatic) cult leader named Jobs.
  created: '2010-02-04 18:51:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lust is big in the West.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 18:54:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Flash needed a wake-up call anyway.
  created: '2010-02-04 19:03:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "This came across my radar today:\r\n\r\nhttp://designarchives.aiga.org/\r\n\r\nThe
    AIGA (an org that I'd argue tends to trend more towards print/advertising and,
    therefore Flash) redesigned the design archives site (which was originally all
    done in Flash). The redesign was done by Second Story (a well known interactive
    firm that is primarily known for the very heavy, albeit lush Flash web sites).
    \r\n\r\nThe redesign uses no Flash. All Javascript. "
  created: '2010-02-04 19:30:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Facts? I hope you don't expect an empirical psychological study, from <em>either</em>
    side of the argument. BTW, I actually don't mind a bit of snobbery. What I mind
    is frivolous, delusional consumerism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The \"American liberal elites\" are (once again) dramatically overestimating
    the power and influence of Apple in the computer and Internet world at large.\"\r\n\r\nPlease
    be citing actual facts and figures to back up your counter-claim rather than silly
    Fox News-esque punditry language. \r\n\r\nWhile I have much respect for hrant
    on subject matters above and beyond type, the silly 'Mac people are snobs' arguments
    are petty at best. \r\n\r\nI'm not trying to defend Apple, but am trying to defend
    rational debate. \r\n\r\nhenrypijames, as for Apple's influence, at least 'in
    the West', it's quite easily measured via sales and market penetration. One can
    certainly debate the charisma of the CEO and the hype that surrounds the products,
    but it's hard to argue against the facts and figures. If one is building web sites,
    indeed, Apple has a strong influence on things.\r\n\r\nhrant, lust is, indeed,
    a big thing in the west. If it results in more people buying more Apple products,
    we can argue about whether that's a good thing or not, but the basic fact that
    it's influencing how the web works is harder to ignore.\r\n\r\nAnd remember, this
    isn't \"just Apple\" that's going down this path. MS has little interest in pushing
    for Flash when they have their own SilverLight struggling to find a home. Google
    seems more than ready to shift away from it if they want to (they're already doing
    it with YouTube.)\r\n\r\nAgain, flash isn't going to disappear tomorrow, but there
    are going to be many more valid options to choose from sitting in the web developers
    tool box. "
  created: '2010-02-04 19:36:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"What I mind is frivolous, delusional consumerism.\"\r\n\r\nYea, I'm not
    fond of that either.\r\n\r\nBut whether one is fond of that or not doesn't really
    change the sales figures of Apple. ;/"
  created: '2010-02-04 19:37:59'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "For \"rational debate\", why don't we start with the fact that the overwhelming
    majority of computer (including cell phones, media players and gaming consoles)
    users (particularly those outside the US) don't use any Apple devices?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I have nothing against the American liberal elites, and I put that term in quotes
    so as to indicate that I wasn't referring to the actual group, but only the subset
    that fall within the cliche."
  created: '2010-02-04 19:45:12'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"the overwhelming majority of computer (including cell phones, media players
    and gaming consoles)\"\r\n\r\nAgain, I have no idea what's going on in Germany.
    Maybe Flash has a long and prosperous life ahead of itself there. Without a doubt,
    Apple doesn't fare as well in foreign markets with it's silly pricing over seas.
    \r\n\r\nBut in the US, that statement isn't that accurate. Apple is the leading
    mobile device company in the US. It sells more web connectible mobile devices
    than anyone else. It may not be in the MAJORITY of people's hands, but to say
    it doesn't have any influence is naive. It is also quickly becoming one of the
    most popular gaming devices (if not a console).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 19:49:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "There was a recent news item about how Flash could be used to fill memory
    with repeaed patterns so as to largely vitiate a precaution Microsoft takes against
    buffer overflow exploits by locating parts of programs at random locations in
    memory instead of the same place each time.\r\n\r\nGiven that an iPad is a telephone,
    security is very critical on such a device; subverting its software could switch
    it into modes that allow intercepting other people's telephone conversations.
    On the other hand, surfing the web from a cell phone is expensive, and so I doubt
    that Adobe's Flash will disappear just because it is not accessible from one device.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    many computer users find that it makes web sites annoyingly slow - and they value
    speed and usability over looking pretty. This is not an unreasonable attitude
    to take, and so web designers who use things like Flash excessively, or where
    it does not relate well to the purpose of the site, do so at the site's peril."
  created: '2010-02-04 20:06:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For reference, see this article on \"<a href =\"http://blogs.forrester.com/groundswell/2010/01/the-splinternet-means-the-end-of-the-webs-golden-age.html>The
    Splinternet</a>.\" I myself am glad to see device speci\uFB01c technologies go
    the way of the Dodo. < grumpy old man > When I was a boy, we did \uFB01ne without
    Flash, and we liked it! < /grumpy old man >"
  created: '2010-02-04 20:10:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The Splinternet link is dead, I think.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-04 20:18:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Darrel, I personally believe -and hope- that Android will stunt the iPhone/iPad's
    further spread, if not eventually kill it completely. Why? Because I don't like
    hypeware.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 20:19:43'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '@Darrel: Nobody said Apple had "no influence" -- if that were the case, I
    wouldn''t call Jobs a cult leader (a friend of mine actually came up with this
    devastatingly acute analogy). But in order to "kill" a technology, you need to
    have monopoly (or at least oligopoly) power over the entire field in which that
    technology is applied. Flash is used on all kinds of web devices (and hardly anywhere
    else), and Apple doesn''t have a monopoly -- or anything close to it -- on the
    web. In fact, its share of the browser market is <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers">below
    5%</a> -- in other words, not just small, but almost negligible.'
  created: '2010-02-04 21:00:28'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "H.P. -- <cite>Darrel, I personally believe -and hope- that Android will stunt
    the iPhone/iPad's further spread, if not eventually kill it completely.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    you think that replacing one evil (hyping toys) by another (hosting our data and
    generously granting us permission to access them) helps?&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 21:22:09'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Android is open architecture, which is a very sound foundation for data security.
    Android can be used without Google, while iPhone becomes useless without App Store.
    That's not a superficial, but essential difference.
  created: '2010-02-04 22:01:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "hrant: no doubt, IMHO that that will be the case. Apple and Google will dominate
    the mobile market for a while, I'm sure. \r\n\r\nThat said, I don't think Google
    has any particular fondness for Adobe, either. \r\n\r\nAs for the 'hypeware' comment,
    well, that's silly, as Android is a hyped as much as iPhone OS. ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 22:05:47'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "When Apple sneezes, the rest of the industry grabs a Kleenex.\r\n\r\nIf Flash
    was already slowly on the way out, it's just been put on a bullet train headed
    over a cliff. \r\n\r\nThe anti-Flash movement is being fuelled by Apple and Google.
    There is only one way this can end well for Adobe:\r\n\r\nAdobe reads the writing
    on the wall and creates tools for HTML5."
  created: '2010-02-04 22:10:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "henry: the debate regarding flash, at the moment, is pretty much about the
    mobile web. And there, Apple, while not in a monopoly position, is definitely
    in a majority stakeholder position of corporate decision-maker mindsets. \r\n\r\nI
    agree, no one is single-handedly killing Flash. \r\n\r\n\"Android can be used
    without Google, while iPhone becomes useless without App Store. That's not a superficial,
    but essential difference.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed. However, I don't think one will necessarily
    trump the other. They'll likely co-exist targeting slightly different demographics. "
  created: '2010-02-04 22:11:14'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Whether Apple is \"definitely in a majority stakeholder position of corporate
    decision-maker mindsets\", I have serious doubts. But even assuming it is, what
    tells you that the future of Flash -- or any other web technology -- is dependent
    on \"corporate decision-maker mindsets\"? The web is not Wall St., trends are
    actually set by the masses, not Pointy-Haired Bosses. And even though the mobile
    market is fast growing, it has a long way to go before it gets deal-breaking influence
    over the web.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong, I disdain flash as much as the next guy.
    (The only thing I like about it are the brand new advanced typography features,
    which aren't in use yet.) On the other hand, I disdain Apple even more."
  created: '2010-02-04 22:26:25'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm not convinced the masses are in disagreement with the pointy-haired bosses
    on the topic of Flash. ;o)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 22:27:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Darrel, Apple is not on top - Symbian is.\r\n\r\nAlso: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/8496263.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 22:57:40'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "The reason Flash became a quasi-standard back then was not because Macromedia
    had a monopoly (which it didn't, with Adobe always being the bigger player), but
    because it was the decisively superior technology at the time (over competitions
    like SVG, which Adobe was trying to back, though in the most pathetic manner imaginable).
    Now Flash has become omnipresent, it requires at least a technologically equal
    alternative to displace it, even by a monopolistic platform provider. The problem
    is that HTML5, JavaScript and SVG are still no match for Flash in the visual department
    (vector animation, advance typography etc.), so there's no immediately available
    replacement in sight.\r\n\r\nTo summarize, the death of Flash by the hand of Apple
    would require (1) Apple becoming a monopolistic mobile provider (which isn't happening
    with Google joining the game), and (2) mobile becoming a deciding factor for the
    web (which will happen eventually, but not in the next few years), and (3) Apple
    starting to embrace competing technologies (which it hasn't so far -- in fact,
    Apple was a major blocker of the recently failed HTML5 Video standardization attempt),
    and (4) the alternatives out-innovating Flash (which is extremely difficult given
    the snail pace at which W3C and co. move compared to Adobe) . None of those conditions
    is being met, ergo Apple killing Flash is simply a joke."
  created: '2010-02-04 23:16:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "hrant: yes, I know. Again, US marketshare is what I was referring to. \r\n\r\nhenry:
    I agree, but we're not talking about any sort of 'wholesale' replacement. Flash
    does a lot of things that can be now replaced with many other things. There's
    still room for Flash, but it's role will be diminished.\r\n\r\nAgain, I don't
    think anyone is saying Apple is killing Flash all by itself. It's just a fairly
    large straw sitting on the camel's back. "
  created: '2010-02-04 23:25:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> US marketshare is what I was referring to.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-04 23:27:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Why?\"\r\n\r\nBecause I'm no expert on world wide mobile device platforms.
    That said...\r\n\r\nA curious chart here on market share world wide:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.webpronews.com/topnews/2009/05/27/comparing-smartphone-market-share-by-operating-system\r\n\r\nIf
    I read it correctly, Symbian is definitely the largest handset OS provider in
    the world. However, in terms of using the mobile device to access the web, iPhone
    is way up there. \r\n\r\nI'm not entirely sure what that means. Perhaps iPhone
    users waste too much time surfing the web or perhaps Symbian OS is installed on
    a lot of devices that aren't really suited for actual web browsing. "
  created: '2010-02-04 23:34:07'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: So we're not talking about the end of Flash, but the end of the massive overuse
    of Flash? Well, that is indeed happening (thank God), but the mobile market has
    extremely little to do with it. The driving force isn't Apple or even Google,
    it's Mozilla, who, until the recent arrival of Chrome, was the only open-architecture
    fast-innovator capable (both principally and technologically) of challenging Adobe.
  created: '2010-02-04 23:48:30'
- author:
    name: CurveDoctor
    picture: 115441
  body: "<code><strong>Web designers use iPhones!\r\n\r\n<code>(and want to check
    site on phone :-)"
  created: '2010-02-05 00:04:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Well, I was, but I suppose the title of this thread DID use 'kill' so perhaps
    that's what everyone else is talking about. \r\n\r\nMobile has quite a bit to
    do with hit, though. We recently rolled out a project where we needed a bit of
    animation and fancier user interface elements. We could have used Flash, but gave
    jQuery + Canvas/SVG a shot and found that it did everything we needed it to do.\r\n\r\nSo,
    all other things being equal, the fact that a) it didn't require a plugin and
    b) would work on all the bosses iPhones made it an easy decision. \r\n\r\nI usually
    loathe the pace of innovation that the web browsers take, but between Google,
    Apple and Mozilla, it's rather shocking how fast things are changing (IE, aside,
    of course).\r\n\r\nAs an aside, note that Chrome is based on Webkit, which Apple
    uses for Safari. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 00:09:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Repost: (due to broken link)\r\n\r\nFor reference, see this article on <a
    href=\"\r\nhttp://blogs.forrester.com/groundswell/2010/01/the-splinternet-means-the-end-of-the-webs-golden-age.html\">The
    Splinternet</a>. I myself am glad to see device speci\uFB01c technologies go the
    way of the Dodo. < grumpy old man > When I was a boy, we did \uFB01ne without
    Flash, and we liked it! < /grumpy old man >"
  created: '2010-02-05 03:11:52'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Chrome is open source and contributes properly upstream to Webkit, while Safari
    isn't and doesn't any more. As it grows more complex, Safari will become less
    and less compatible with other Webkit-based browsers and eventually evolve into
    a distinct species (note that the font rendering of Safari is already different
    from others).
  created: '2010-02-05 05:43:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite> Given that an iPad is a telephone, security is very critical on such
    a device; subverting its software could switch it into modes that allow intercepting
    other people's telephone conversations.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf an iPad *were* a telephone,
    that would be a concern. One of the things that irks me about the iPad is that
    it is *not* a phone. You can get cellular data service with the highest-end models,
    but not cellular audio service. Weird, but true.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-05 08:00:32'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: "Flash's downfall is its underutilized by the middle men. Content Management
    Systems like this one, vBulletin, IPB, and others have Flash banned from use by
    default and Admins are falsely co-erced by fear mongering that its devastating
    to a website's security. I do see that Typophile uses Flash, but Flash has a far
    greater capacity for community interaction than an animated header. Or even porn
    banner ads for that matter.\r\n\r\nIt has superior quality for web animation compared
    to .gif and can be used for avatars, posting custom text, scripting out and posting
    in-line animated ideas to your fellow community members.\r\n\r\nAdobe is lazy.
    I think AIR was the greates software idea in recent years. The ability to integrate
    Flash & Java to your desktop and the web... You could create huge, action intensive,
    websites that sit on the user's PC. All of the users posting here for instance,
    could be having a dynamic conversation with streaming video, simultaneous news
    articles, real-time instance based pictures, a whole lot can still be one with
    Flash's capability. Its just not getting done."
  created: '2010-02-05 11:10:36'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"All of the users posting here for instance, could be having a dynamic conversation
    with streaming video, simultaneous news articles, real-time instance based pictures,\"\r\n\r\nI
    think you just explained why so many people loathe sites that use Flash. "
  created: '2010-02-05 13:54:08'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '@VBM: "It''s just not getting done" because people don''t want it. The primary
    function of the web is providing information, not enabling interaction just for
    the sake of it. Flash has always been catastrophically bad for information --
    after a decade of development, Flash content still cannot be automatically indexed.
    As to interaction, just watch how miserable Google Wave is failing, and you get
    an idea how overrated highly-integrated real-time interactivity on the web really
    is.'
  created: '2010-02-05 14:21:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think you just explained why so many people loathe sites that use Flash.\r\n\r\nThen
    you should move to Typo-L, where not even pictures are allowed!  :-/\r\n\r\n>
    you get an idea how overrated highly-integrated\r\n> real-time interactivity on
    the web really is.\r\n\r\n\"Overrated\" is misleading; it's simply technically
    not there yet. You can't really believe people wouldn't want to engage in it.
    It's sort of how many people still do a lot of drawing/design on paper then move
    to the computer; not [necessarily] because they really want to, but because computer
    drawing tools are still... inhuman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 14:59:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Why aren't video phones the standard? The Jetsons promised us that. \r\n\r\nWell,
    the technology is certainly here. It has been for a while. It's built in to almost
    any laptop these days.\r\n\r\nThe thing is that people just didn't need or particularly
    want it. \r\n\r\nThere are certainly uses for it...MMORPGs use it a lot. And video
    chatting with relatives once in a while is 'neat', but for the day to day communicating
    with the world, unecessary. \r\n\r\nAdobe had really hoped that Flash would BECOME
    the internet, but that didn't happen. It has its place. It's just that that place
    is going to shrink a bit going forward. \r\n\r\nAnd, as stated, if Adobe is smart,
    they won't care too much. They make IDEs. They make the tools that make the web.
    Flash is a robust IDE and if they could get it to output other formats than SWF,
    I think they'll do just fine.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 15:32:28'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: For Flash to "become the Internet", it really needs to become (easily) indexable
    first. That's an absolute deal-breaker, and it's unbelievable how Adobe has been
    ignoring the issue this whole time (particularly strange considering that PDF
    -- also from Adobe -- has made so much progress regarding indexability in the
    last years).
  created: '2010-02-05 17:06:12'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "@Hrant: I most certainly can believe people wouldn't want to engage in that.
    For starters, I don't want to engage in that.\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't own a cell phone
    either, and like you, I don't even like regular phones. So tell me, why the hell
    would I want any remote real-time interaction that's more complex still?"
  created: '2010-02-05 17:15:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the technology is certainly here.\r\n\r\nDude, your precious iPhone has
    a resolution of 480 x 320*, less than 40% of the resolutions of the Motorola Droid
    and a number of HTC models. In fact WVGA has been available on phones for two
    years now. Why does the iPhone, something cast and seen as prestigious, have such
    a poor display?\r\n\r\n* That's one ironic reason the pan/zoom seems so useful
    on it! :-/\r\n\r\n> for the day to day communicating with the world, unecessary.
    \r\n\r\nActually that's how I feel about 99% of phone conversations, which is
    why I don't own a cellphone.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 17:31:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why the hell would I want any remote real-time interaction that's more
    complex still?\r\n\r\nBut I'm not talking about you or me. I'm talking about most
    people. People who apparently think Twitter is da bomb, people who happily pay
    $90 a month to \"express themselves\" (nevermind nobody else really cares). Most
    \"conversations\" these days are really just rapid-fire quickie monologues.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not out to save the world. I'm just a designer.\r\nAnd just because I care doesn't
    mean I'll be a martyr.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 17:32:27'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: This is once again confusing the prominent with the prevalent. Just like Apple,
    Twitter is more talked about than actually used. As of today, the majority of
    Internet users don't use Twitter or any other social networking services, and
    don't publicly "express themselves" via a personal blog, either. While many believe
    it's just a matter of time until most people do, someone has yet to provided a
    convincing argument why that will eventually be the case. I'll believe it when
    I see it.
  created: '2010-02-05 18:15:57'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Dude, your precious iPhone has a resolution of 480 x 320*, less than 40%
    of the resolutions of the Motorola Droid and a number of HTC models.\"\r\n\r\nHrant,
    can you accurately translate the Droid screen into pixels per inch? I have a feeling
    (but can't confirm) that the difference isn't really that great. A clear, oranges-to-oranges
    comparison would be useful. I think the iPhone screen is around 163 pixels per
    inch, which is really not bad, and is capable of surprisingly clear image and
    text display.\r\n\r\nI do think it's funny that you don't have any cellphone,
    considering all your opinions. For the record, I do have an iPhone, and I think
    twitter is a mess. [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BeLZCy-_m3s|Waiting for \"Shutter\"...
    \ ;)]]"
  created: '2010-02-05 18:39:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can you accurately translate the Droid screen into pixels per inch?\r\n\r\nIt's
    about 280 dpi.\r\nThe difference is minimal if you're looking at a photo. The
    difference is huge if you're browsing or reading. This is largely from personal
    experience (I borrow smartphones all the time, although I almost never make calls
    on them :-) but also from common sense. Try setting the browser window to 480
    x 320 on your computer and see how quickly your hair will fall out!\r\n\r\nBTW,
    although I don't own a cellphone*, I do used them, and I watch people use theirs
    (which you can't do when you're using yours :-) and I read up on them all the
    time. And I will note here that I've used computers since 1977, so I'm no technophobe!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n* I'm totally sure it would make my life worse, not better.\r\nAnd
    to be honest I believe this is true for almost everybody.\r\nCommunication is
    fun and can even trigger ideas, but you\r\ncan't really solve problems if you're
    talking all the time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 19:00:36'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   No proper operating system can \r\n>   leave itself at
    the mercy of a browser plug-in!\r\n\r\ni believe you just gave us the reason jobs
    blew off flash.\r\ni know my mac is a _lot_ more stable with click-2-flash.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  installed base! And that's also the reason \r\n>   Jobs can't kill anything
    as huge as Flash\r\n\r\nyou don't need to \"kill\" flash to cause its downfall...\r\n\r\nyou
    just need to rob it of the ubiquity which has been\r\nthe primary reason for its
    uptake by web-designers...\r\n\r\nand jobs is well on his way to disrupting that
    ubiquity.\r\nonce designers decide they need to provide alternatives\r\nfor non-flash
    users, they'll end up using an alternative\r\nthat will work on _all_ platforms,
    like flash used to do...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.  hrant, i admire your independence
    in resisting the\r\ntrend towards cell-phones, even while i think it means\r\nyou
    really don't have the current-day experience needed\r\nto fully understand how
    things will move into the future.\r\nas for me and my sweetheart, how would i
    be able to talk\r\nwith her when one of us is away from a landline if we didn't\r\nhave
    our trusty iphones with us?  that would make me sad...\r\ndon't you have a girl,
    hrant?  maybe i can hook you up, dude.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 20:08:12'
- author:
    name: rootdown
  body: a
  created: '2010-02-05 20:37:47'
- author:
    name: Gus Winterbottom
  body: ">did Steve Jobs Kill Flash?\r\n\r\nI certainly hope so. Flash is the STD
    of the web -- you get it by trying to be artsy. The only half-*ss reason to use
    Flash is for video, and that wouldn't even matter if the video codec area wasn't
    so screwed up -- Quicktime is a PITA, RealPlayer and the ilk are badware, and
    there are far too many other competing codecs for consumers to make sense of --
    see the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_codec|list]] on Wikipedia, for example.
    Websites that use Flash, especially for those annoying mezzanine pages and navigation
    menus, never get my business again."
  created: '2010-02-05 21:07:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i'm with Pete Cashmore on this one:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.cnn.com/2010/TECH/02/04/cashmore.ipad/index.html\">Apple's
    iPad -- Will it improve the Web?</a>"
  created: '2010-02-05 21:21:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've no idea what impact Steve Job's comments may have on Flash.\r\n\r\nI
    do know that I think web standards should be, well, standards: open, documented.
    So of course I favour HTML5 over Flash, Silverlight or other proprietary RIAs."
  created: '2010-02-05 21:30:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i believe you just gave us the reason jobs blew off flash.\r\n\r\n?\r\nWhat
    I meant is an OS that crashes because\r\nof a browser plug-in needs to be fixed.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I've been married for ~14 years. Anyway my wife can email me from her phone, and
    the only time I'm away from my email is when I'm driving, and the way I drive
    that's a godsend!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-05 21:31:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'See also this: <a href="http://daringfireball.net/2010/01/blue_boxes">Who
    Can Do Something About Those Blue Boxes?</a>'
  created: '2010-02-05 21:34:56'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "<cite>What I meant is an OS that crashes because\r\nof a browser plug-in
    needs to be fixed.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've never had Mac OS X crash because of Flash,
    but many times I've had a web browser running on Mac OS X crash due to faulty
    Flash. Sometimes what crashes Safari won't crash Opera or Firefox or Camino or
    iCab or Shiira, or it may crash any one or more of those. What is true that the
    Mac version of the Flash plugin has always run less efficiently than the Windows
    version on equivalent hardware. I've seen Flash animation that still runs choppy
    on my year old iMac that ran smooth as glass on a Windows PC a decade ago.\r\n\r\nBut
    there is still a lot of Flash content on the web, and it is very unfortunate that
    it can't be accessed on mobile devices."
  created: '2010-02-05 21:54:34'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "This is just an idea, but does anyone else see a correlation: Mac/PC Flash,
    and Mac/PC fonts. I know this is stretching it a bit, but similarities are there.
    \r\n\r\nSo, are we looking forward to a new, good HTML, or a new shell, or something,
    to just making things sort of work well enough?"
  created: '2010-02-05 22:21:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"But there is still a lot of Flash content on the web, and it is very unfortunate
    that it can't be accessed on mobile devices.\"\r\n\r\nYes, that's true. However,
    I think we'll see that remedy itself in short time.\r\n\r\nFor video, there are
    options now (provided web site is willing to implement them) and more options
    coming soon (HTML5 video support).\r\n\r\nFor animations, there are some options
    now (.js libraries) and some coming soon (webkit CSS transformations).\r\n\r\nFor
    complex animations, that's where flash might stick around. It'd be nice to see
    that on a mobile device. However, I don't think that's a huge amount of content
    one would be missing.\r\n\r\nFor the typical use of flash...gaming, I'm not sure
    a touch-based mobile device would even work for that. The standard keyboard and
    mouse interactions wouldn't apply to a multi-touch interface. So that might be
    moot. Fortunately, for that there are solutions now that help migrate a flash
    app into an iPhone app and, I'm guessing, other mobile OS apps soon. In fact,
    that'd be a great thing for Adobe to focus on...using Flash as an IDE for mobile
    OS apps. "
  created: '2010-02-05 22:25:09'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I'm going to bookmark this thread and come back in 5 years to see who's got
    it right. Now that'll be interesting to read!
  created: '2010-02-05 23:56:41'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   What I meant is an OS that crashes \r\n>   because of
    a browser plug-in \r\n>   needs to be fixed.\r\n\r\nyes, and what i meant is that
    the quickest and \r\nbest way to \"fix\" it is to disable that plug-in...\r\n\r\nhey,
    i _wish_ flash worked, i really do, because\r\ni've seen some awesome artistic
    work created\r\nin flash, some totally cool and radical stuff, so\r\nwhy doesn't
    adobe just fix the bugs in the thing?\r\nfor heaven's sake, what are all those
    programmers\r\non that campus _doing_ that they can't fix flash?\r\ni'm not sure
    i agree with jobs that adobe is \"lazy\",\r\nbut it can't seem to code its way
    out of a paper bag\r\nthese days, and it used to be cracker-jack smart...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Anyway my wife can email me from her phone\r\n\r\ni love to make my girl laugh,
    and i need to hear it,\r\nso an e-mail just ain't gonna do the job for me...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 07:30:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the quickest and best way to \"fix\" it is to disable that plug-in...\r\n\r\nYou
    must be that guy who fixed the\r\nking's headache by chopping his head off.\r\n\r\nLike
    you say, there's tons of stuff made with Flash, and some of it is\r\nvaluable.
    A buggy OS* should not cause you to throw the baby out\r\nwith the bathwater.\r\n\r\n*
    Apple should not depend on Adobe to satisfy\r\ntheir users. They should make a
    proper OS.\r\n\r\n> i love to make my girl laugh, and i need to hear it\r\n\r\nI
    hear her laugh in my mind, and the emotive quality is much\r\nhigher than a laugh
    going through wires and a compression algorithm.\r\n\r\nJust like how I think
    photography is just entertainment, it's not really culturally valuable. A photograph
    doesn't even convey 1% of what the mind is capable of; and if you need a photograph
    to trigger a memory, that memory simply wasn't memorable - you're fooling yourself.
    Which brings us back again to iTards.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 15:13:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From before:\r\n> you really don't have the current-day experience needed\r\n>
    to fully understand how things will move into the future.\r\n\r\nOn the one hand
    not depending on a cellphone deprives me from certain insights - I admit. On the
    other hand not depending on a cellphone -especially a specific one- gives me a
    broader and clearer outside view, like how when I'm in a restaurant waiting area
    or ski resort chair lift I can observe instead of \"communicate\".\r\n\r\nBut
    most of all my objectivity comes from being emotionally detached. I dislike all
    of these companies. MS, Apple, Adobe, to me they're all part of the problem*.
    This probably comes from my lack of faith in capitalism. The only computer company
    I really liked (and not for their management :-) was Commodore. The C64 and especially
    the Amiga could really do things. I was so emotionally attached I convinced my
    dad to buy stocks in Commodore... :-/  But I can't think of a computer company
    now that I like, and that's putting it mildly. I believe this gives me a clearer
    view into the distance than somebody who <em>wants</em> specific companies to
    succeed.\r\n\r\n* Which is not to say I don't like or value some of their employees;
    knowing many of them personally I have no doubt they're good people. But I don't
    envy them - whether they realize it or not they're struggling for goodness and
    relevance within an ideologically nefarious environment.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nLet
    me ask you (plural) this:\r\nDo you like Apple -I mean emotionally- more than
    the others?\r\nThink about it, be honest to yourself, and then to the world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 15:30:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Just to clarify: \r\n\r\n- I've never heard of Flash causing OS X to crash.
    An OS crash (kernel panic) is a rare occurrence, usually related to low-level
    hardware driver problems (like installing an out-of-date audio interface driver).
    \r\n\r\n- Flash does cause problems in Safari and other browsers on the Mac. It's
    a resource hog when playing video and sometimes causes the browser to crash. Other
    kinds of Flash content work fine in my experience."
  created: '2010-02-06 16:47:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm just going by what Dan said:\r\n\"Whenever a Mac crashes more often than
    not it\u2019s because of Flash.\"\r\n\r\nBut really, the same thing applies to
    Flash crashing a browser.\r\nWhen a guest in your home misbehaves, you don't just
    watch.\r\nSometimes Flash has too much to drink. So you grab the vase\r\nhe's
    about to throw against the wall and send him home. But\r\nhe's usually so much
    fun you invite him back again. If you\r\nban him completely you're the loser.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-06 17:00:41'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "I don't think anyone here honestly believes that some company or a technoloqy
    can kill Flash, just like that.\r\n\r\nBlocking Flash entirely is a good call
    when you have to make sure everything else stays up and running and you're certain
    that the culprit is indeed the plugin.\r\n\r\nAs for Adobe being lazy, the same
    can be said about any major software company. They rarely pay any attention to
    their support forums. The following website was on Hacker News today and it contains
    a Flash bug reported to Adobe in September 2008:\r\n\r\nhttp://flashcrash.dempsky.org/
    [this web page should crash your browser, just to illustrate a point]\r\n\r\nThe
    bug should have been fixed in the latest beta, though.\r\n\r\nMozilla also disabled
    Flash by default on its Mobile Firefox, but besides some Nokia users that's not
    going to affect anyone yet. They listed the same reasons for doing so as Apple
    did, and they do make a valid point: if a piece of software they have no control
    over deteriorates the user experience to a level where the user perceives their
    product as somehow defective, they have a good reason for disabling it."
  created: '2010-02-06 17:43:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   You must be that guy who fixed the\r\n>   king's headache
    by chopping his head off.\r\n\r\nactually, i chopped off the king's head\r\nbecause
    he had sprained his ankle...\r\n\r\ni know, he was as confused as you are.\r\n\r\n\"why
    do you have to chop off my _head_\r\nwhen it is my _ankle_ that is sprained?\",\r\nhe
    asked.\r\n\r\n\"because you feel the pain in your brain,\r\nwhich is in your head,\"
    i said.\r\n\r\nso i chopped off his head, and now he's dead.\r\n\r\n\"the king
    is dead, long live the king!\"\r\n\r\nand they called me a hero for killing the
    king,\r\nand we all lived happily ever after...\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n>   I dislike
    all of these companies. \r\n>   MS, Apple, Adobe, to me \r\n>   they're all part
    of the problem*. \r\n>   This probably comes from \r\n>   my lack of faith in
    capitalism.\r\n\r\ni dislike all corporations.  and most rich people,\r\nespecially
    if/when they feel _entitled_ to be rich.\r\n\r\ni hate apple less than the others,
    simply because\r\ntheir products don't suck _quite_ as much, and i\r\ncan't see
    why products need to suck at all, really,\r\nexcept most people aren't too good
    at what they do,\r\nand everyone's too busy being selfish to be _good_.\r\n\r\ni
    hate adobe worse than the others, simply because\r\ni have watched it buy out
    any competitors who had\r\nbetter technology only to shelve that better stuff,\r\nso
    they could then proclaim their worse stuff as the\r\n\"de facto\" standard, and
    benefit from that falsity...\r\n\r\nbut when it comes to code running on my computer,\r\nas
    long as it works, that's what i care about, no matter\r\nwho made it.  if flash
    worked, i'd be quite happy with it.\r\nit just so happens that it slogs my browser,
    _often_...\r\n\r\ndoesn't actually _crash_ it, just gives me the spinning\r\nbeach
    ball for so long i force-quit it to avoid misery.\r\njavascript often causes the
    same problem.  honestly,\r\ni don't know whether it's flash/javascript, or stupid\r\nscripters
    who don't really know what they're doing,\r\nor smart scripters who are collecting
    info secretly\r\nand phoning it back home, but in the long run, it\r\ndoesn't
    matter, as they all bog down my machine.\r\n\r\nso i turned off flash.  and things
    got a bit better...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:07:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i can't see why products need to suck at all\r\n\r\nCan't you see why Apple
    can get away with\r\nlow-dpi devices, and doesn't that unnerve you?\r\n\r\n> i
    have watched it buy out any competitors who had\r\n> better technology only to
    shelve that better stuff\r\n\r\nYou mean how Apple bought out that Brazilian company\r\nthat
    was making Mac clones, only better? That's a rule\r\nof capitalism, and if Adobe
    is doing a better job of it than\r\nApple, you can bet Apple is envious and it's
    trying to learn\r\nhow to catch up! :-/  I don't think it's a good idea to like
    a\r\ncompany more simply because it's clumsier.\r\n\r\n> they all bog down my
    machine.\r\n\r\nTo repeat: your machine's software needs\r\nto be fixed if it
    lets Flash do that to you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:21:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "For hrant (I, too, miss my C64):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cstore_5920.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-07 00:55:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 01:18:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Let me ask you (plural) this:\r\n> Do you like Apple?\r\n\r\nYES!\r\n\r\nAdobe?\r\nYES!\r\n\r\nMS?\r\nYES!"
  created: '2010-02-07 01:39:32'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: "There's definitely a movement among cutting-edge web designers and software
    companies \u2014 the same folks who led the way in the semantic web, XHTML-CSS
    design, AJAX, and now HTML5 \u2014 to abandon Flash. I've been using the Click2Flash
    plugin to block all Flash except sIFR, and it's a godsend. Youtube videos now
    play as high-quality H.264 videos embedded in HTML5 pages.\r\n\r\nIn early 2009,
    65% of global mobile web content was accessed by iPhones and iPods. It is as high
    as 92% in some markets, like Australia, and 78% in Western Europe. 32% of visitors
    to popular tech pundit blog Daring Fireball have Flash disabled (like I do). Firefox
    for Maemo (Nokia's mobile smartphone/tablet platform) will disable Flash due to
    performance issues. The release of the iPad will only serve to increase the percentage
    of web users who don't use Flash.\r\n\r\nOther smartphone competitors will face
    the same choice Apple did. Do they ship with Flash, and leave a core part of their
    browsing functionality to black-box code by a third-party company known for its
    bugs and security holes, and thus have no power over compatibility and updates?
    Or do they rely on HTML5 and open-source Webkit, which can do everything Flash
    can do, as well or better?\r\n\r\nMy hunch is Flash is done for, and good riddance
    when it goes."
  created: '2010-02-07 13:32:15'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Mobile is still but a minor factor in the development of web technologies,
    and I don't think that will change in the next few years.\r\n\r\nAlso, there are
    a great number of web users blocking JavaScript with NoScript -- is JavaScript
    therefore \"done for\", too? There are a great number of web users blocking ads
    with AdBlock -- is advertising on the web \"done for\"?"
  created: '2010-02-07 16:03:25'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "On one hand, flash is a slow/closed-source technology and I'd like to see
    it a lot less in favor of javscript. On the other hand, even if this happens,
    I'll still support Adobe's Flash as a great program for animators.\r\n\r\nI can
    see why Jobs hates Adobe Flash, I've had to work on OS X a few times before, and
    Flash does crash incredibly frequently. Moreso, Flash support on Linux is incredibly
    embarrassing (to a point where developers are trying to built their own interpreter).
    Everyone is moving towards HTML5 and javascript anyway. The death of flash is
    an inevitable consequence to open technologies advancing past it. I'm rather glad
    Apple decided to acknowledge this.\r\n\r\nI really do hope that Flash dies as
    a format, but as a program, may it live on.  \r\n\r\nAlso, regarding more accurately
    the actual topic and attempting to steer my wild tangent, the death of flash on
    the web means little to typography. Viva la CSS3!"
  created: '2010-02-07 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the death of flash on the web means little to typography.\r\n\r\nI wish
    that were true of Apple - they've been ruining typography for years.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 19:48:50'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "hrant said:\r\n>   Can't you see why Apple can get away with\r\n>   low-dpi
    devices, and doesn't that unnerve you?\r\n\r\nwould i like higher-dpi devices?
    \ well, certainly...\r\nas long as they weren't too much more expensive,\r\nand
    i still had all the other functionality i wanted...\r\n\r\nbut i don't see anyone
    selling such machinery.\r\n\r\nand no, i don't get \"unnerved\" at much of anything.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  You mean how Apple bought out that Brazilian \r\n>   company that was making
    Mac clones, only better? \r\n\r\ni didn't hear about that.\r\n\r\nand i'm not
    sure a company from another continent\r\nthat was making \"clones\" would be preferable
    to me,\r\nso i'm not all that concerned.\r\n\r\ni saw where a company in orange
    county was making\r\ntablets out of macs a couple years back, and i was\r\nquite
    interested in that, but their prices were too high.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   That's a rule
    of capitalism\r\n\r\nyeah, that's probably one reason i hate the capitalism...\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  and if Adobe is doing a better job of it than Apple, \r\n>   you can bet Apple
    is envious and it's trying to learn\r\n>   how to catch up! :-/\r\n\r\nyou seem
    to have an axe to grind.  fine by me.\r\nbut there's no reason to make me the
    straw man.\r\ni can register my own complaints about apple,\r\nand mine hold water
    because i have no axe here.\r\n\r\n\r\n>   I don't think it's a good idea to like
    a\r\n>   company more simply because it's clumsier.\r\n\r\ni don't think apple
    is \"clumsy\".  quite to the contrary,\r\ni think they are overly controlling,
    which is even worse.\r\n\r\nmicrosoft, in these ballmer days, seems \"clumsy\"
    to me,\r\nand if anything, it has endeared them to me of late...\r\n(not enough
    for me to buy anything they sell, but still.)\r\n\r\n\r\n>   To repeat: your machine's
    software needs\r\n>   to be fixed if it lets Flash do that to you.\r\n\r\ni'm
    surprised you'd repeat something so stupid.\r\n\r\nany time anybody's code can
    run on my machine,\r\nit can cause performance problems.  by disallowing\r\nflash,
    i'm saving myself from people's flash code...\r\nand so far, i'm completely happy
    with the tradeoff.\r\n\r\nand yes, there are times when i wish i could turn off\r\njavascript
    as well, because there seems to be a lot of\r\nbuggy javascript out there now,
    most especially on the\r\nwebsites of the legacy print-magazine publishers --\r\nwith
    \"wired\" being the worst offender in my experience.\r\nbut when i've tried to
    turn off javascript, i haven't been\r\nable to negotiate some sites that i like,
    so i was forced\r\nto turn it back on.  but would i like a choice?  heck yes!\r\n\r\nas
    for apple as a company deciding not to support flash,\r\nthey get crashlogs from
    a ton of users, so they _know_\r\nwith great certainty what is causing their machines
    to\r\nsuffer bad performance, and they tell us flash is bad,\r\nso bad that they
    have made a point (and made it loud)\r\nto say that they aren't going to support
    flash anymore.\r\nit's a wake-up call to adobe, and adobe better wake up.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 19:58:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have no axe.\r\nI've watched computer companies come and go since the 70s.\r\n\r\n>
    i don't think apple is \"clumsy\".\r\n\r\nIn most ways I agree. I was specifically
    talking about shutting down\r\ncompetition. If Adobe is better at it, Apple is
    probably just envious.\r\n\r\n> i think they are overly controlling, which is
    even worse.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n> i'm surprised you'd repeat something so stupid.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not stupid.\r\nA good OS is just very hard to make. And just like most any other
    company (especially a publicly-owned one), sadly Apple knows that saving money
    not doing a quality job can be cost-effective, especially when it can lay all
    the blame on another company rather than admit a failing.\r\n\r\nIn the end, it's
    not Apple that's annoying, it's people who get fooled by Apple. No other computer
    company has such berserker followers, and it's not healthy for anybody, not even
    Apple.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-07 20:25:01'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nAt least they bundle their Operating Systems with decent default
    fonts."
  created: '2010-02-07 21:53:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "?!\r\nIt's been the other way around for many years now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 01:05:39'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: "\"No other computer company has such berserker followers, and it's not healthy
    for anybody, not even Apple.\"\r\n\r\nAlthough this notion is common from the
    peanut gallery, it's not quite correct.\r\n\r\nThere are two things that can be
    said about the core fan base, and neither makes these people (me included) \"berserkers\":\r\n\r\n1.
    Mac users love their computers and love using them. Is it really such a bad thing
    for Apple that people who love the computers they use tend to prefer Apple's computers?\r\n\r\n2.
    Mac users are not delusional. On the contrary, they are more demanding than typical
    people and complain loudly whenever things aren't perfect. There is a strong correlation
    here between expectations and platform loyalty. If we weren't anal about everything
    working right, we'd stick to Windows."
  created: '2010-02-08 08:09:55'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: '@xo: Flash may be "closed source" (as in "not open source", in the sense
    that the public has no way of getting involved in the development process), but
    the full spec has public for years, so it''s not as bad as it once was.'
  created: '2010-02-08 19:14:13'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   I was specifically talking about shutting down competition. \r\n>   If
    Adobe is better at it, Apple is probably just envious.\r\n\r\nevery company should
    be \"envious\" of adobe in that arena.\r\n\r\nthey've played the buy-and-dismantle-competitors
    game\r\n_far_ better than anyone else, at least in the tech sector...\r\n\r\nand
    that's rather remarkable, because they aren't a _huge_\r\ncompany.  but they do
    know their place on the totem pole.\r\n\r\nthey know that the big fish eat the
    smaller fish, and they\r\nhave successfully avoided being eaten themselves, a
    feat.\r\n\r\nand they know their station in the pecking order, so they\r\nmake
    sure they're picking on a competitor of the right size.\r\n\r\nthey're also highly
    skilled at deception.  for instance...\r\n\r\n>   Flash may be \"closed source\"
    (as in \"not open source\", \r\n>   in the sense that the public has no way of
    getting \r\n>   involved in the development process), but \r\n>   the full spec
    has public for years, \r\n>   so it's not as bad as it once was.\r\n\r\nthis is
    one of the biggest tricks they play on the public...\r\n\r\nthe make a spec \"public
    knowledge\", so that -- in theory --\r\nanyone can make use of it.  but when you
    get down to it,\r\nyou discover all kinds of caveats.  for instance, you'll find\r\nthat
    you are specifically disallowed from making a player.\r\nmoreover, you'll find
    that there are all kinds of difficulty\r\nin that spec, which make it extraordinarily
    complex to\r\ncode an authoring-tool.  moreover, because adobe is\r\nin complete
    control of the spec, they can change it at will,\r\nand they _will_ change it
    if you _were_ to manage to create\r\nan authoring-tool that threatened their income-stream...\r\n(they
    can also make sure their player will choke on any\r\ncontent that's created by
    your player, making it worthless.)\r\n\r\nthey're currently pulling this type
    of charade with e-books,\r\nwhere they combine their viewer-tool with their d.r.m.,
    thus\r\nmaking it impossible for anyone else to make a viewer-app,\r\nwhich then
    makes it easy for them to control authoring-tools,\r\nand thus manipulate what
    started out as \"an open standard\",\r\nthe classic \"embrace-extend-extinguish\"
    model of microsoft.\r\n\r\n(and, in case you weren't paying attention to e-books
    then,\r\nthis is what microsoft did with e-books in the late '1990s,\r\nwith an
    earlier version of this  same \"open standard\" format.\r\npublishers pulled out
    once they realized what microsoft was\r\ntrying to pull on them, but e-books suffered
    a bad setback.\r\nnow we're replaying the scene, with adobe in the ms-role.)\r\n\r\n(also,
    in case you weren't paying attention to e-books then,\r\nadobe also bought-and-shelved
    some competitors to .pdf in\r\nthe early 1990s, which is when i became hip to
    their strategy.\r\nit's how they established .pdf as a \"defacto standard\", which
    is\r\nanother trick they love to play, and repeated later with flash.)\r\n\r\ni
    admire the craftiness of adobe in executing the strategy, but\r\nthey're sleazy,
    they're very sleazy, and i don't trust 'em a bit...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-08 20:14:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: http://www.macworld.com/article/146220/2010/02/flash_bug.html
  created: '2010-02-09 00:34:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "bowerbird: Sleazy people rarely apologize.\r\nWhen is the last time Apple
    apologized?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 01:00:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Poor Flash is dead\r\nPoor Adobe Flash is dead\r\nJobs, he says it sucks
    and it's been banned.\r\nPoor Flash is dead\r\nPoor Adobe Flash is dead\r\nIt
    crashed too many Macs for Jobs to stand.\r\n\r\nPoor Flash. Poor Flash. RIP."
  created: '2010-02-09 01:22:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I don't know if anyone else has covered this, but I came across a rather
    disturbing story in today's <em>Washington Post</em> regarding the iPad and its
    extreme stance on vertical integration. It appears that the iPad OS is so closely
    controlled by Apple that it would be possible for Apple, remotely, to delete content
    on individual iPads; here's a brief snippet from the story...\r\n\r\n<strong>Apple's
    iPad could be game-changer in digital-media censorship</strong>\t\r\nSunday, February
    14, 2010 \r\n\r\n<em>With the iPad structure, Apple is creating absolute control
    for product, delivery and even ownership that can be revoked at will. Apple allows
    or rejects the application (the container); it can remove all or part of any content
    from its servers; and it can even remotely delete the stuff you purchased.</em>\r\n\r\nPay
    no attention to the man behind the curtain..."
  created: '2010-02-14 17:01:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@oldnick that's no different than the Kindle.\r\n\r\nYea, it sucks. Or, rather,
    DRM sucks. "
  created: '2010-02-14 18:06:43'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "Furthermore, as Apple's A4 is most likely based on the ARM Cortex A9 CPU
    core, it's going to have DRM control at a hardware level. Apple should have learned
    the lesson on DRM by now, so I'm thinking this has a lot more to do with preventing
    jailbreak attempts on upcoming platforms, like the iPad and the next version of
    the iPhone.\r\n\r\nHaving total control, however, isn't the same as exercising
    it."
  created: '2010-02-15 09:35:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Think different? Think don't.\r\n\r\nBTW, to see who really cares about typography,
    go about 1:15 into\r\nthe video here: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/8515915.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 03:44:04'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: So, did Steve Ballmer kill Flash?
  created: '2010-02-16 10:29:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Wasn't it Bill Bulmer?
  created: '2010-02-16 12:06:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"So, did Steve Ballmer kill Flash?\"\r\n\r\nNo, that would have been Ming
    the Mericiless. :-)"
  created: '2010-02-16 16:35:45'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: I was waiting for a good Flash Gordon joke.
  created: '2010-02-16 18:16:59'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "Came across this misunderstanding today from the occasionally funny \"Clients
    From Hell\":\r\n\r\n[[http://clientsfromhell.tumblr.com/post/392772921/client-indian-outsourcer-says-he-can-do-this
    | Low-end Client + Flash iPhone website ]]"
  created: '2010-02-16 19:03:20'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://venomousporridge.com/post/389785000/a-conversation-i-have-every-month-or-so
  created: '2010-02-17 00:29:54'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "http://venturebeat.com/2010/02/18/steve-jobs-ipad-flash-wall-street-journal-wsj/\r\n\r\n\"Actually,
    it does (the ipad supports flash). Apple engineers built in Flash capability.
    Apple marketers published a demo video that unwittingly showed an iPad running
    a Flash ad on the front door of The New York Times website. But Jobs ordered Flash
    support removed, and had the video edited to remove the Flash scene.\"\r\n\r\n\u201CFlash
    would also allow iPhone and iPad users to consume video and other entertainment
    without going through iTunes. Flash would let users freely obtain the kinds of
    features they can only get now at the Apple App Store.\u201D"
  created: '2010-02-19 15:13:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Flash would let users freely obtain the kinds of features they can only
    get now at the Apple App Store\"\r\n\r\nIf they're referring to video, then that's
    just false. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-19 15:45:58'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "\"Update: Apple expert John Gruber, cited below, wrote in to say his sources
    told him the Flash image in an iPad demo, now removed from Apple\u2019s website,
    was a mockup, and that Apple engineers left Flash support out of the iPad from
    the start. I\u2019ve removed a paragraph that claimed Flash already works on the
    iPad.\"\r\n\r\nWhat happened to people researching their articles before hitting
    \"post\"?\r\n\r\nAs for \"consuming other entertainment without going through
    iTunes\", the App Store is how we get paid for our work. Even if the devices supported
    Flash, I wouldn't be making free software for the users. I'm getting pretty sick
    of every blog resorting to the App Store excuse without thinking it through."
  created: '2010-02-19 15:49:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>What happened to people researching their articles before hitting \"post\"?</em>\r\n\r\nmore
    people need that nifty 'Google before You Tweet' print hanging above their computers."
  created: '2010-02-19 22:11:38'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "THIS is what killed flash. For me, anyway.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.norcalis.com]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-20 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That IS scary, Dan!
  created: '2010-02-20 19:01:15'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Holy crap! If Monty Python had made a sketch about Flash, that's how it would've
    looked like.\r\n\r\nSeriously, the comedy value of that site is absolutely on
    par with the <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cn8Pua5rhj4\">Whicker Island
    sketch</a>."
  created: '2010-02-21 06:22:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: edit
  created: '2010-02-21 16:36:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I've not read this thread (not really interested in Flash) but noticed this
    article today where the inventor of Flash says the Apple v Adobe battle is bigger
    than the font wars. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.cio.co.uk/opinion/veitch/2010/02/23/flash-co-creator-weighs-in-on-appleflash-stand-off/ "
  created: '2010-02-23 23:40:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...the Apple v Adobe battle is bigger than the font wars.\r\n\r\nHow'd he
    know before the war even ended?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-02-24 13:21:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Apple's new motto: \"Sue Different\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-03 17:19:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "software patents suck goats.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-04 17:56:12'
date: '2010-02-04 04:42:16'
node_type: forum
title: So, did Steve Jobs Kill Flash? What does this mean for Type on he web?

---
