---
author:
  name: Shh
  picture: 119197
body: "I have a client who would like to use Papyrus in their branding, alongside
  the logo I designed for them (logo attached).  They mentioned that something similar
  would be ok, so I'm scratching to find something that would suit them (think personal
  trainer who uses yoga in her practice and likes tribal design) and not make me feel
  professional pain.  I would love to hear some suggestions.\r\n\r\nI'd also love
  to hear how others tactfully deal with clients that want to use fonts (or other
  design elements) that you just can't bring yourself to use?  How do you tell them
  that their choices are... less than ideal?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "There's nothing you can do. Yoga = Papyrus. That's just the way it is. \r\n\r\nThat
    said, if you want to challenge that universal law of nature, FontShop has a list
    that might be useful:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/alternatives/papyrus/"
  created: '2010-02-09 22:27:44'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Thanks for the link Aluminum.  I have to challenge it.  I think it's in my
    DNA.  Can't use Papyrus... at least not without some discussion with the client
    on the topic.  I have to know I've done everything within my power to keep it
    out of my work!\r\n\r\nAny other suggestions welcome!  Both on font and about
    broaching the subject with the client."
  created: '2010-02-09 22:42:45'
- author:
    name: natalie_F
  body: "You really just need to defend your work and your creation. Do your best
    to explain why you design things the way you do \u2013 ie. why you use a certain
    typeface or colour. As long as you put thought into what you're designing, you
    should be able to defend it and hopefully the client will understand. In a perfect
    world, it would work every time, but some clients won't budge and then you also
    need to learn to let things go. \r\n\r\nAs for the client who wants Papyrus, try
    explaining to them how overused Papyrus is and how you want to help them be more
    distinctive that every other fitness/yoga/tribal brand. Maybe she'll understand
    and at least you tried. "
  created: '2010-02-09 22:50:53'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: Thanks, Natalie.  I haven't had to defend my work in years and I was a little
    alarmed by the Papyrus request!  I'll just do my best.  Thanks for the suggestions.
  created: '2010-02-09 22:59:08'
- author:
    name: M J McGregor
    picture: 119198
  body: I'd show some mockups with Papyrus and then some with alternative typefaces,
    along with as many examples as you can find of Papyrus being used in her type
    of business. Then explain how a different font will make her advertising stand
    out while still conveying the message, but that if she really wants Papyrus, you'll
    respect her wishes.
  created: '2010-02-09 23:01:51'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: That's what I'm thinking MJ.  Was just about to start searching similar businesses
    that use Papyrus.  Will definitely let them know that their wishes will be respected
    though.  Thanks!
  created: '2010-02-09 23:23:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Natalie said. But also going negative can still help.\r\nPoint out that
    it's not just your opinion, Papyrus is the\r\nobject of ridicule among many in
    the field*, and ask her\r\nif she wants to be associated with that.\r\n\r\n* http://www.papyruswatch.com/2009/08/avatar-really.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-09 23:26:34'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "I see no \u2018logo attached\u2019."
  created: '2010-02-10 00:01:48'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: 'Yeah.  I intend on letting her know that Papyrus has a low market (cheap)
    association. Or as another designer friend of mine put it: "It''s a part of every
    two bob desktop publishing setup and gets used at every other school fete."'
  created: '2010-02-10 00:02:19'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pt_logo_6493.jpg]\r\n\r\nHmm.  Trying
    to upload image again."
  created: '2010-02-10 00:06:11'
- author:
    name: fbrccn
    picture: 115598
  body: "i don't know which font you are using in your original logo, but maybe  [[http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/fertigo.html|fertigo
    pro]] might fit? \r\nit's got a sort of yoga-ish/indian appearance to it... \r\n\r\ni
    actually used it myself on an unfinished yoga book project :) "
  created: '2010-02-10 00:09:22'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "This time you\u2019ve made it. Thanks. And it makes the use of Papyrus even
    more absurd. It should be left to its own bloody Hollywood war on Trajan."
  created: '2010-02-10 00:12:00'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Thanks fbrccn.  I'll check it out.\r\n\r\nTon, what do you suggest?"
  created: '2010-02-10 00:35:52'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "Phew, Suzanne, you got me there, \u2019cause I ain\u2019t no gunslinger\u2026
    But, if there is not too much accompanying text, I would probably think of some
    lettering based on the sanskr(i)t model, you know: all the letters connected by
    a horizontal line at the top, which would underline (or \u2018overline\u2019,
    as it were) the geometry of your (lovely) logo, and, at the same time, provide
    for a contrast and the \u2018marriage\u2019 of the old and the new, the West and
    the East. Now, there is one (to wit, poorly executed and, I believe, free) font
    on the Net, called Samarkand, to give you an idea of what I\u2019m talking about.
    True, it would take some, and, depending on the quantity of text, possibly quite
    some work to do the job. But, then again, it could be fun, and quite an experience,
    to execute it, I\u2019d say."
  created: '2010-02-10 02:24:41'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Thanks so much, everyone.  Really appreciated.  Here's what I've decided
    to do (in case anyone finds themselves in a similar situation).  \r\n\r\nExplain
    to the client that their wishes will be respected, but that it would be poor form
    on my part if I didn't talk a little about Papyrus.  Tell them that it has a low
    value perception etc., and that holistic health practices do not have to equal
    hand hewn, scratchy or ethnic typeface styles.  What I think of when I think of
    their practice is: clarity, strength, flexibility (arcs and curves), leanness
    and light.  I'll then show them good examples of design for such studios and bad
    design using Papyrus. Then give them examples of their logo with Papyrus and with
    the typefaces I will choose. \r\n\r\nI'll ask them to think about it for a few
    days before deciding and if, in the end, they still want Papyrus, then I'll do
    that for them.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Adding this comment from a friend, because it's funny:
    '...letting her know\r\nthat you would use it if required helps.  Too bad you
    can't mention that\r\n\"If you do force me to use it, I will never be able to
    admit performing\r\nthis service for you, and would have to take my name off of
    all documents\r\nassociated with your design package.\"'\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 02:49:29'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Tell the client that you and the creator of Papyrus have been bitter enemies
    since childhood. Grit your teeth, hyperventilate and cross your eyes a bit every
    time Papyrus is mentioned.
  created: '2010-02-10 13:08:41'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "Ask your client to visit:  www.papyruswatch.com/\r\n\r\nThis may help them
    make a decision."
  created: '2010-02-10 16:46:30'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Guess you'll be using Papyrus. \r\n\r\nAt the end of the day it's what the
    client wants and you want to get paid. You win some, you lose some."
  created: '2010-02-10 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Papyrus is a lovely face.\r\n\r\nI don't think overuse is the issue, because
    picky designers use stuff like Gotham which is all over the place.\r\nThe problem
    is that it's a face used by a lot of amateurs, and it looks damn good in their
    hands.\r\nIt's embarrassing for professionals to put themselves on a par with
    amateurs by using it.\r\nIt's common, or \"naff\" as the Brits say these days.\r\nAnd
    it's not as if you can get designy or ironic with it, as is sometimes possible
    with Comic Sans.\r\nAnother thing, it's a very demonstrative \"display\" face,
    the design of which tends to overshadow the typographer's contribution, which
    is the main reason that designers avoid new and novelty faces.\r\n\r\nCompounding
    the problem is the fact that there are no adequate recherch\xE9 substitutes.\r\nStewf's
    list demonstrates that. \r\nLike Trajan, Papyrus is a well-proportioned and distinctive
    face with a lot of nicely rendered microdetail, so that it renders well at different
    sizes and in different environments.\r\nSo until someone comes up with another
    face which can match its qualities, tough."
  created: '2010-02-10 19:08:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm with NIck. I don't understand where designers come up with these bizarre
    prejudices against fonts like Trajan, Comic Sans, Papyrus, Helvetica. Maybe Nick
    has a good point about \"professionalism\".\r\n\r\nEither a font is correct for
    a job or it's not, doesn't matter what the prevailing design-brain is spewing.\r\n\r\nI
    don't hardly ever use any of these, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't without one
    blip of conscience if they were right for the job. Get over your prejudice and
    just decide if Papyrus is correct for this or not, if not, then explain to the
    client why, if so, then use it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-10 21:00:05'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: I suggest you don't use that, Papyrus is bad feng shui!
  created: '2010-02-10 21:05:40'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: What about Elli, the featured font at the time I wrote this? It has a playful
    feel that would work in that field. And it isn't Papyrus.
  created: '2010-02-10 21:14:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, Paul: Fonts don't work in a vacuum. Whether a font\r\nis \"right for
    the job\" depends on how people see the font, and\r\nthat is certainly affected
    by how/where they see the font used.\r\nIgnoring that fact is something an artist
    would do.\r\n\r\nAnd there's a critical difference between something like Papyrus\r\nand
    something like Gotham*: the latter has a much more \"generic\"\r\nappearance,
    while the former is in-your-face. Designers who use\r\nGotham are -hopefully-
    shooting for subtlety, knowing very well\r\nthat almost everybody will barely
    even notice what it is. Papyrus\r\nis nothing like that.\r\n\r\n* Although that's
    over-used too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-10 21:28:24'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I agree with Nick.\r\n\r\nAnd who gives a rat's ass about feng shui."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Cassiedi
    body: "Thank you! \r\nI'm the dreaded client. I was surprised and hurt when my
      brand was looked at by a newly released designer( just graduated design school)
      and she gasped. You should never ever ever use papyrus.  I ran to the Internet
      and typed in \"why you should never use papyrus font\". I was bombarded by reasons.
      My heart sank. I had already passed out business cards and menus. I had received
      so very many compliments on the simplicity and style of my logo. Most every
      woman that saw the design, loved it. Is that because we are ingrates lacking
      the ability to see \"tacky\" overused fonts. A sub human group, without education.
      \r\nMainstream: is the problem that we are flowing with it, or just don't care
      and are rebelling with the quiet but blatant use of papyrus wherever possible?
      \r\nI must attend design school, or never again take matters into my own hands,
      otherwise, I might drink tea, rather than sip it."
    created: '2012-12-28 00:01:25'
  created: '2010-02-10 21:48:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Whether a font is \"right for the job\"...</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that is important.
    But this thread addresses the \"professional pain\" that Papyrus causes.\r\nSo
    I think I can be forgiven for not wandering off topic, although not, apparently,
    for being an artist.\r\n\r\n[Papyrus] <em>is in-your-face. Designers who use Gotham
    are -hopefully- shooting for subtlety...</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a slightly different
    idea than what I had mentioned earlier, \"...[Papyrus is] a very demonstrative
    \"display\" face, the design of which tends to overshadow the typographer's contribution...\"\r\n\r\nTo
    develop on that: Gotham is a face that can be used to produce strong contemporary
    multi-line settings (e.g. tightly leaded all caps) that give typographic structure
    to a layout, whereas Papyrus tends to float, its effectiveness coming from its
    display-lettering qualities, i.e. the hand-made, textured finish of its letter
    forms."
  created: '2010-02-10 22:43:26'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Wow.  That's a lot to respond to... \r\n\r\nEveryone will have their own
    idea as to what works and what doesn't and I think all the above opinions are
    valid for the person who wrote them... not necessarily for me, but I find all
    opinions valuable in one way or another, if for nothing else than to clarify my
    own thoughts.\r\n\r\nThat fact that Papyrus is often used by the lay-person is
    not it's only problem, but this does reflect poorly when used poorly and there
    are a lot of instances where that happens.  I don't often see it used well, as
    has been suggested.  This leads to a wider low opinion of businesses that use
    this font and so of course I don't want my clients or my work in that kind of
    company.  To steal a phrase from hrant: \"Fonts don't work in a vacuum\".\r\n\r\nAs
    to it being commonly reviled being due to the fact that it's commonly used:  There
    are fonts that have been around longer and are used more often that I have zero
    problem with. Helvetica, although much maligned by some (i think it's the boredom
    factor), is a well-designed font.  \r\n\r\nPapyrus, as Nick says, is a novelty
    font.  There's a reason it is in the \"fun\" collection in Font Book.  It's very
    gimmicky looking and just far too literal. It doesn't belong in anyone's visual/corporate
    ID or branding, in my opinion... unless it's theme or feel appropriate, say a
    spa that using Egyptian Threading as one of it's services or Chinese massage...
    or a child's class project on South East Asia.\r\n\r\nI also believe it is inherently
    flawed, although put this down to personal preference if you like.  It's descenders
    are different lengths, ascenders are even, but too tall.  This lack of consistency
    in appearance does actually make it break down at small sizes and in certain mediums.
    \ The chips out of it don't help either, although I wouldn't say they were aggressive
    and could work on other type-faces, but taking an idea to farcical extremes never
    did it any favours in terms of concept.  I'll say one thing in it's favour.  It
    has generous counter-spaces.  I like that.  I think it's one of it's saving graces.\r\n\r\nMy
    response to Papyrus has nothing to do with the prevailing design brain.  This
    is for branding purposes, not a movie poster.  I can guarantee you that my client
    doesn't perceive her business as a novelty.  I didn't actually realise how much
    hate their was for it until I was asked to use it and thought: \"You must be kidding.\"
    and started looking around for ways I could express this to my client without
    causing offence.\r\n\r\nDon:  Thanks for the suggestion.  I did consider Elli
    actually, but the client loves flow and I think Elli might be a little too sharp
    and I would prefer to use something more regular for type that will be used with
    a logo for better reproduction at small sizes in a variety of media. \r\n\r\nTypodermic
    and xo: Heh."
  created: '2010-02-11 00:51:23'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: Does your client wants to be just one more intructor?
  created: '2010-02-11 02:10:59'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "A new suggestion, Suzanne, since it seems that the search is limited to a
    sort of (faux-) calligraphic typeface: take a look at the homepage of the website
    vrouwenspirit.nl, which caters to the subculture esthetics of your client, but
    the font used lacks the drawbacks of Papyrus which you (in my opinion) rightly
    list in your latest post.\r\n\r\n(The text at the bottom means: \u201CHere shall
    shortly appear the website of the Female Spirit\u201D.)"
  created: '2010-02-11 02:14:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Suzanne, you almost had me convinced for a while.\r\n\r\nBut I must ask you,
    why do you suppose your client likes it so much, and if she is blind to the fact
    that it is a \"novelty\" font and  would associate her with all those companies
    where it had been used badly, why would her clients not also respond to it with
    the same positivity? (Unless they also happened to be graphic designers :-)"
  created: '2010-02-11 02:58:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "> This leads to a wider low opinion of businesses that use this font \r\n\r\nLudicrous.
    Do you think all customers are designers? Never forget that fonts aren't the only
    thing that lives in a vacuum\u2026\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-11 03:31:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "There are alternatives; I've just noticed that the Stone Type Foundry has
    come out with a new one, [[http://stonetypefoundry.com/tuffoverview.html|Tuff]],
    and for a closer match, there's always [[http://www.fontcraft.com/fontcraft/?p=1654|Ereshkigal]],
    which is similar, but still quite distinct from Papyrus.\r\n\r\nI think that Papyrus
    is overused because, among the well-known and widely available typefaces, it does
    what it does better than any of the others. But that doesn't mean that people
    who aren't professional designers might not react to its overuse at some level,
    as some here would point out."
  created: '2010-02-11 03:50:44'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "Nick & quadibloc, I understand the stance but have to voice a little disagreement
    on this one. The merits or demerits of the typeface's aesthetic characteristics
    aside, the ubiquity  of papyrus can't possibly stem from the fine-tuned tastes
    of the world's tweeners personalizing their diary blogs...the face was obviously
    meant to project a specific communicative intent\u2014ancient, foreign, egyptian,
    crumbling scroll, etc.,\u2014but there are few applications I can think of that
    would make good use of what this typeface says visually...(maybe the Stargate
    franchise?) (Also, is it odd to admit typefaces speak to me?)\r\n\r\nIt'd be hard
    to deny papyrus is overused and abused as by everybody with a computer who can
    call it up among their twenty or so pre-installed fonts. When I see it in the
    world, I find it's almost always a lazy shorthand attempt to communicate \"creative\"
    or \"funky\" or \"tweener diary\" or \"yoga\" or \"sci-fi movie\" or \"organic
    aisle\" or \"candles by Jan\" or \"asian restaurant\" or \"bong shop\" or \"tattoo
    parlor\" or \"office party memo\" or \"gardening supplies\" and on and on and
    on\r\n\r\nBut here's what honestly gets my goat about this one: Papyrus speaks,
    and speaks loudly\u2014but what it says, is \"I'm funky and creative and unique\"
    in a way that is so painfully common, comfortable, familiar, underwhelming, thoughtless,
    default, a little bit ugly, and herd-instinct-approved. It's like the PT Cruiser
    of typefaces..."
  created: '2010-02-11 04:51:57'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Ton: not bad, but I have to say that I'm trying to avoid anything with an
    eastern flavour.\r\n\r\nNick: I love your feedback. It's thoughtful, sane, and
    good for my professional growth.  I agree that some of her clients would feel
    a certain kinship because of that font, but they are not her only target market
    (nor are they her primary target market) and that is not the only thing they would
    respond positively to.  I also believe that people are capable of knowing cheap
    when they see it, designer or not.  So that association will be there for a lot
    of people, not just myself or other designers.  Designers are probably just more
    conscious of it.\r\n\r\nPaul:  As you see above, I don't think it is a gift bestowed
    only on designers that they can see \"cheap\" at fifty paces.  If it was then
    you'd agree with me, right? ;)\r\n\r\nQuadibloc: Tuff is a great suggestion.\r\n\r\nDesignpuck:
    Not at all odd to admit that typefaces speak to you... unless it's in that inside
    your head, telling you to kill people way.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 05:07:31'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Suzanne - according to you your client has really cheap taste. Are you sure
    you want the job?\r\n\r\nI do not understand font hatred, it feels very elitist
    to me.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-11 05:27:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why do you suppose your client likes it so much\r\n\r\nBecause she has
    little awareness of the world of fonts.\r\nI would equate it with falling for
    a gigolo.\r\n\r\n> Do you think all customers are designers?\r\n\r\nNo, but everybody
    reacts subconsciously to everything,\r\nwithout realizing it. Think of it not
    as elitism, but simply\r\ntrusting people who have put the time to understand\r\nsomething
    deeply. I for one cannot <em>hate</em> a font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 05:58:40'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I don't tactfully deal with my clients. I tell them why a design works and
    leave it at that. I don't dance - ever. If I were you I'd tell the client to stick
    too what they do best, and let your work speak for itself.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 07:08:51'
- author:
    name: thamilton
    picture: 118087
  body: ' I noticed a few "the client gets what the client wants" type responses.
    I believe this is called being a whore. If they hired you they are acknowledging
    that they don''t know what they are doing and you do. Find a way to remind them
    of this.'
  created: '2010-02-11 07:27:15'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Paul:  \r\n>according to you your client has really cheap taste. Are you
    sure you want the job?\r\n\r\nShe has her own associations with this typeface.
    It's not about thinking she has cheap taste, it's about understanding the wider
    implications of using this font that have been outlined by many of us.  Many non-designers
    live their lives without even considering the nature of the design they are subjected
    to on a daily basis.  It's like The Matrix, but with typefaces!  You should know
    that she does understand my reasoning, appreciates my honesty and looks forward
    to seeing alternative ways of expressing the core values of her business.  I look
    forward to her choosing the red pill.*\r\n\r\n>I do not understand font hatred,
    it feels very elitist to me.\r\nThis is not mindless, elitist font hate.  It's
    thoughtful, better design for the people font aversion. ;)  Is it elitist to not
    want to use a font when you have outlined good reasons for it? Instinctual and
    practical dislike for a font is not elitism, it is personal preference.\r\n\r\n5star
    and tylerh:  The talk went well. There's always room for tact, but I definitely
    agree in that I think it's negligent to not steer clients away from making bad
    choices.\r\n\r\n*Apologies to those unfamiliar with The Matrix."
  created: '2010-02-11 08:43:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Papyrus was, when it first came out, a well-designed and original font. It's
    subsequent fate can't detract from that, and its overuse results from how well
    it communicates... a message that is much in demand of late.\r\n\r\nWhat is the
    difference between elitism and serving one's client as best one can? Obviously,
    it's motive: is it \"my fellow typographers will laugh at me\", or \"your potential
    customers will laugh at you\"?\r\n\r\nPeople who aren't typographers will notice
    they've seen Papyrus before at this New Age bookstore or that yoga center or the
    other T-shirt store or restaurant and so on. Having a unique and original typographic
    identity is a good thing that ordinary people appreciate. So it is perfectly legitimate
    to look for an alternative to Papyrus.\r\n\r\nThe problem may be finding one.
    There are several - there have been threads here discussing this issue before
    in which many candidates were presented - but since none of them communicates
    the same thing in the same way as Papyrus, which alternative is suitable would
    have to be carefully chosen. Thus, for example, in some cases, one could use Ondine
    (also fairly widely used, though) instead of Papyrus, and in others it would be
    a very bad choice for a replacement.\r\n\r\nI mentioned Tuff: going in a different
    direction, one could consider Present."
  created: '2010-02-11 13:12:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It's subsequent fate can't detract from that\r\n\r\nBut we're not talking
    about history - we're talking about what a client needs now. In fact it's hard
    enough getting people to realize the power and relevance of fonts right in front
    of their eyes - you want them to become sensitive to their <em>history</em> as
    well?  :-)\r\n\r\n> Obviously, it's motive: is it \"my fellow typographers will
    laugh at me\",\r\n> or \"your potential customers will laugh at you\"?\r\n\r\nCertainly
    the first one shouldn't be at play (except possibly as a desperate ruse to let
    the design be more than the client will allow). But the second one is extremely
    relevant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 15:46:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "ITC Simran:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.itcfonts.com/fonts/font/pid/204862/ITC+Simran/detail&grab_id=0&page_id=115745&query=satwinder"
  created: '2010-02-11 16:17:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are two contradictory principles at work here.\r\n\r\nFirstly, a typeface
    is one of many tools that a designer uses to create a page, an identity, a signage
    system, whatever.\r\nSo fixating on Papyrus is not conducive to the synergy of
    a good design, and constrains originality and the development of something custom
    tailored to the client.\r\n\r\nSecondly, it's unavoidable that when \"everybody\"
    has a computer and a font as distinctive as Papyrus is bundled with Apple, Microsoft,
    and Corel, there is going to be consumer awareness of this professional tool--and
    a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. Papyrus certainly picked up a lot of
    good karma being used for the captioning in Avatar. Damn, it's so easy to recognize
    with its humunguous extenders. What other typefaces are like that? Delphin is
    all I can think of.\r\n\r\nSo it's a real challenge for designers to deal with
    their clients' font-specific prosumer tastes, especially when these tastes are
    shared by the target market.\r\n\r\nWhy not develop two treatments, one of which
    uses Papyrus, and market test them?\r\nAfter all, it's just a tool--surely there
    must be some way for a designer to put her stamp on it and use it in a subtle
    and creative way? (Easy for me to say!)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 17:12:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "One factor to think about here is something Mark Simonson noted a while ago.
    Amateurs tend to be attracted to \"highly flavored\" faces, because they are noticeably
    distinctive to everyone, and can make a strong visual statement on their own.
    \r\n\r\nBut that very strength has two problems: 1. It makes them less flexible,
    and less easy to harmonize with other design elements and 2. It also can make
    them go stale more quickly.\r\n\r\nI think these two factors mean that the highly
    flavored face needs to really work graphically for the use, if it is not to go
    stale for those who use the shop or services. "
  created: '2010-02-11 18:32:25'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "Has it actually been proven -- by whatever means -- that Papyrus is \"overused\",
    or is it just a meme that has been positive-reinforcing itself? I, for one, was
    barely aware of this typeface up until the time I came across a rant about its
    alleged ubiquity.\r\n\r\nI also believe that even if Papyrus is overused, the
    problem is limited to the US, where Macs are widespread, whereas in other parts
    of the world, a \"two bob desktop publishing setup\" can't afford Apple and therefore
    doesn't have Papyrus."
  created: '2010-02-11 19:50:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Right Nick, it's just a tool. That's what I should have said in the first
    place.\r\n\r\nI have never tried to talk you into using it Suzanne, I just don't
    understand the attitude. It feels very insular.\r\n\r\nI don't view my job as
    a designer as some sort of educator, quite frankly, I sell things.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-11 20:10:58'
- author:
    name: M J McGregor
    picture: 119198
  body: "I suspect the issue with Papyrus is that it looks like a one-off. The first
    time I saw it, I thought it was beautiful. But to continue to see it is like your
    co-worker who wears the same very handsome blue sweater day in and day out.\r\n\r\nThe
    presence of Papyrus calls for a million variations, one for each yoga teacher."
  created: '2010-02-11 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> whereas in other parts of the world, a \"two bob desktop publishing setup\"
    can't afford Apple and therefore doesn't have Papyrus.\r\n\r\nPapyrus is also
    included with the large selection of Bitstream fonts included with either Corel
    Draw or Word Perfect, and the latter is sometimes included along with the purchase
    of a new Windows PC. So a lot of people with Windows machines also have this face
    without having to have purchased it directly from the typefounder at a higher
    price.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 20:38:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The trouble with Papyrus is that it is a caricature of what Yoga may seem
    to be about to those who don't know whereas Legato is probably physically more
    what Yoga tries to be. Forms in balance without the look of extreme effort.
  created: '2010-02-11 21:10:43'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "<em>The trouble with Papyrus is that it is a caricature of what Yoga may
    seem to be about to those who don't know</em>\r\n\r\nThat I absolutely agree with."
  created: '2010-02-11 21:54:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Legato is an interesting idea. \r\n\r\n[[http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Minah|Minah]]
    is a very elegant, calligraphic roman with long extenders. I can imagine that
    a person who really likes Papyrus will like this as well, but it's little used,
    and a bit more disciplined as well. "
  created: '2010-02-11 21:59:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right Chris, perception is a bamboo yoga mat, reality is rubber.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-11 23:01:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Still better than a Yoga mat made of a bed of nails :-)
  created: '2010-02-11 23:06:44'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "I can\u2019t help but thinking we\u2019ve ended in a blind alley here\u2026
    There were some good thoughts by the \u2018community\u2019, no doubt, and by this
    I mean those that tried to find a common ground for the client and the designer,
    the logo and the accompanying typeface, based on the subject matter, which is
    YOGA \u2013 as Eastern as can be; but the designer is \u2018trying to avoid anything
    with an [E]astern flavour\u2019 (never mind that the font she\u2019s referring
    to is based on the solid Western calligraphic tradition). So, dear Suzanne, why
    don\u2019t you just make those few letters yourself? That way you can\u2019t go
    wrong, you\u2019ll be definitely gratified; and the client\u2026 well, we\u2019ll
    see. Perhaps she\u2019ll see the light too, blazing within her third eye\u2026"
  created: '2010-02-11 23:36:03'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Actually, yoga is not "as Eastern as can be", at least not for people who
    are somewhat familiar with Eastern cultures. Yoga is Indian, and India -- in so
    many respects -- is and always has been significantly more Western than East Asia
    aka the "Far East". Taiji, for instance, is a "more Eastern" school of meditation
    than yoga.
  created: '2010-02-11 23:46:48'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "Thanks, pijames, for the geographical hairsplitting, immensely enlightening
    to us who are not \u2018somewhat familiar with Eastern cultures\u2019."
  created: '2010-02-11 23:59:11'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Why not just commission a lettering artist to do some renderings/roughs :-)
  created: '2010-02-12 00:03:23'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "\"Geographical hairsplitting\"? Considering that East Asia is larger than
    Europe (and more than twice as populous), and India is not part of it (not even
    close), \"yoga is as Eastern as can be\" is as correct as \"the Russian Orthodox
    Church is as European as can be\" or \"samba is as American as can be\".\r\n\r\nTalk
    about \"caricature\"!"
  created: '2010-02-12 00:46:18'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: 'My vote''s for either: 1. Minah, or 2. Commissioning a lettering artist,
    or perhaps designing a unique typeform (unless the client claims to have a ''papyrus-level''
    budget).'
  created: '2010-02-12 00:55:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You guys have way too much time on your hands.\r\n\r\nDefinitive proof that
    the economy sucks."
  created: '2010-02-12 02:09:20'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@terminaldesign\r\n\"You guys have way too much time on your hands.\"\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to the internet, enjoy your stay. :)"
  created: '2010-02-12 03:47:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would think that neither Legato nor Minah would begin to do the job the
    client wants, if he is thinking of Papyrus.\r\n\r\nA Sanskrit simulation font,
    however, would say \"tacky\" in a voice far clearer than Papyrus, at least in
    my opinion. Ondine is not advisable for the same reason.\r\n\r\n> \"Geographical
    hairsplitting\"? Considering that East Asia is larger than Europe (and more than
    twice as populous), and India is not part of it (not even close), \"yoga is as
    Eastern as can be\" is as correct as \"the Russian Orthodox Church is as European
    as can be\" or \"samba is as American as can be\".\r\n\r\nI'll certainly agree
    that Yoga is not particularly Chinese, Japanese, or Korean.\r\n\r\nIt is, however,
    very Indian, and India is part of the Far East. It certainly isn't part of the
    Middle East."
  created: '2010-02-12 18:18:04'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: India is part of the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Far_east#Territories_and_regions_conventionally_included_under_the_term_Far_East">Far
    East</a>? Have you really thought that Asia consists entirely of the Far East
    and the Near East, and there is nothing in between?
  created: '2010-02-12 18:28:19'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "IMO Papyrus is a fantastic typeface. Yes, fantastic. Well conceived and designed.
    See if you can best it.. I triple dog dare you.\r\n\r\nNote to mods: Please start
    a Fix Papyrus type battle.\r\n\r\nPS. Neuland is in the same boat: also fantastic,
    well conceived and designed -- and overused to characterize certain \"ethnic\"
    themes: Africa, Amazon, Jungle, Safari etc. Yet, it is still an amazing typeface."
  created: '2010-02-12 19:48:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Neuland is way better than Papyrus
  created: '2010-02-12 20:32:47'
- author:
    name: M J McGregor
    picture: 119198
  body: "A rather enlightening interview with the creator of Papyrus, Chris Costello:\r\n\r\nhttp://isryldesigns.blogspot.com/2010/01/q-with-chris-costello-font-designer.html"
  created: '2010-02-12 23:55:40'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Fonts go in and out of style. You can intellectualize a Vote for Pedro T-shirt
    all you like but you'll still look like an idiot wearing it.
  created: '2010-02-13 00:48:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not saying Papyrus is a bad typeface. I am saying it is a badly used
    and abused typeface.\r\n\r\nRay, you are exactly right though, you cannot escape
    being thought of poorly if you use it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Cassiedi
    body: "Yes, the first thing my customers said , while ordering confections, was
      \" I can't believe you used papyrus, that is so tacky\"!\r\n\r\nif one needs
      to be within \"enlightened\" designers guidelines to look sophisticated and
      sell more product, what happened here: The London Olympics, twitter, bp and
      hooters.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2012-12-28 00:25:47'
  created: '2010-02-13 02:14:16'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "And that is the whole point. The man who created it said that a few years
    ago already. Things are going to get even worse, what with the new large-scale
    exposure in the megalomaniac Hollywood project of late\u2026 We have seen a result
    even here: any upright calligraphic font can now be perceived as having an \u2018Eastern
    flavor\u2019. For Pete\u2019s sake."
  created: '2010-02-13 02:39:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I finally found the site again...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bowfinprintworks.com/\r\n\r\nthat
    has many typefaces displayed there, a number of which might be good alternatives
    to Papyrus."
  created: '2010-02-13 03:28:34'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "But the question remains Chris - thought of poorly by who?\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-13 03:33:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...thought of poorly by who?\"\r\n\r\nPeople of good taste or, as some
    would say, Effete intellectual snobs like us :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 04:31:19'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Whatever tastes good Chris, some people like blubber, some rotted milk, no
    accounting for it. ~(\u2022\u2022)~\r\n\r\nOr as Frank Sinatra once told a friend
    of mine's mom, \"Whatever gets you through the night.\"\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-13 06:00:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Oh well. Time for a <A HREF=\"http://www.ihatepapyrus.info/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/06/img_1778.jpg\">pint</A>...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 07:36:54'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Comic Sans is the funniest font ever created. Nothing winds 'em up more and
    nothing causes more noise on the internet not even Lydian or Papyrus.\r\n\r\nIt
    was designed as a practical joker and better than Jokerman."
  created: '2010-02-13 12:48:15'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Comic Sans bashing is finished. A couple of years ago it was pretty mainstream
    to whip it, even here on Typophile. Now it tends to be done in places that are
    a few lolcats behind. Cooper Black, while not as maligned as Comic Sans was, took
    a few shots in the ribs and now they're writing a book about it. Give it a few
    years.
  created: '2010-02-13 13:43:35'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: Comic Sans is a font people tend to hate on first sight. Not so Papyrus.
  created: '2010-02-13 13:51:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > > \"...thought of poorly by who?\"</cite>\r\n<cite> > People of
    good taste </cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, Chris, Starkist don\u2019t want tunas with good
    taste .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. "
  created: '2010-02-13 14:26:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: OK, Charlie :-)
  created: '2010-02-13 15:00:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Now it tends to be done in places that are a few lolcats behind.\r\n\r\nLOLtastic!"
  created: '2010-02-13 17:07:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Oh well. Time for a pint...\"\r\n\r\nSo, Si, that must be an East Indian
    pub, right? Kingfisher and chips? :-)"
  created: '2010-02-13 17:18:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For those too young to remember:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.legacyamericana.com/servlet/the-20559/Pinback-button-opposing-the/Detail"
  created: '2010-02-13 17:21:56'
- author:
    name: Shh
    picture: 119197
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI now have several fonts up my sleeve that represent the ideas
    that the client wants to communicate without being overly literate or simplistic.
    \ None are Asian themed, nor do they need to be as it's not pertinent the business.
    \ All have flow or are rounded, have curves, have a regular and solid structure
    and are on the light side, reflecting principles of her business (personal trainer
    who uses a mix of skills including her chiropractic licence and yoga).  \r\n\r\nThanks
    all.\r\n\r\np.s. The creator of Papyrus has actually said that he was aiming at
    an Eastern interpretation with Papyrus.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 22:44:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I don''t think Hooters is aiming for ''sophisticated''. '
  created: '2012-12-28 00:56:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Liking something consciously is great, but there's more to customer behavior
    than that. Just like you make them better people through yoga, we make them better
    people through typography. Or rather, you/we try to.\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\nhttp://typographica.org/on-typography/a-fruitful-discomfort-the-face-of-the-2012-olympics/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 01:55:49'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Awesome, you used a typeface that's common as snot for your unique branding
    ...congrats.  \r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2012-12-28 05:22:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hopefully the client's own clients don't decide to avoid her yoga classes
    based on judgements about yoga that they're not qualified to make...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 05:51:37'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It's important that a designer and client talk about expectations before
    starting a project together. \r\n\r\nIn this case the designer might have learned
    that the client wanted to stick with Papyrus, and the client might have learned
    that the designer hated Papyrus, and they might have mutually decided not to work
    together on this project.\r\n\r\n> I must attend design school, or never again
    take \r\n> matters into my own hands\r\n\r\nThe reason you hire a specialist \u2014
    whether it's an accountant,  lawyer, architect, or whatever \u2014 is because
    they know more about their specialty than you do. That doesn't mean you have to
    agree with everything they recommend, but it may be wise to give it serious consideration."
  created: '2012-12-28 06:01:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Ms Mckenzie,\r\n\r\nI assume you're kinda relating rather than giving a life
    experience -- unless an Alaskan baker went to an Australian graphic designer?\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    you need to understand you won't get much sympathy on this forum. Far too many
    of the denizens of Typophile are more involved with style than design, which lets
    in a lot of us-versus-them thinking. \"Style\" is also very much of the moment
    -- like which of the 10,451 sans serif fonts birthed in 2012 should one use? It's
    understood those fonts are not to be used in 2013, of course. And probably not
    in Des Moines, ever.\r\n\r\nJames gave a good answer, though probably more serious
    than you intended.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 13:50:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Far too many of the denizens of Typophile are more involved with
    style than design</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIndeed, although compared to the broader
    field of design (such as clothing bought by the typical yoga student) we're quite
    ascetic, especially those of us who prefer making text fonts.\r\n\r\nHowever disposing
    of style entirely results in typography that's entirely disposable.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>which
    lets in a lot of us-versus-them thinking.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nConflict is the
    father of all things.\r\n\u2013Heraclitus\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 15:31:52'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Far too many of the denizens of Typophile are more \r\n> involved with
    style than design\r\n\r\nThe word \"style\" is commonly used where referring to
    design trends, I use it myself all the time, but actually I think what we're talking
    about here is more in the realm of fashion rather than style. \r\n\r\nAn example
    of the difference is if you looked at photo of a person taken in 1870, you'd probably
    have no idea if the clothes they were wearing were in fashion that year, but you
    could instantly tell if that person had style.\r\n\r\nSame thing with design.
    Just because a font or a design element is out of fashion (due to overuse, for
    example) doesn't necessarily mean it's got bad style. Helvetica, for example,
    is a good font, but it's out of fashion at the moment."
  created: '2012-12-28 16:19:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually Helvetica's proportions, color and spacing are out of whack. To
    me it only works when set very large at the lightest weights.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 16:31:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Helvetica, for example, is a good font, but it\u2019s out of fashion
    at the moment.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept that it\u2019s presently #5, #17 and #18 on
    the MyFonts chart.\r\nI guess it depends on whether what\u2019s fashionable falls
    within the purview of sales statistics or pundits, in which case I wouldn\u2019t
    pick you for a maven, Charles!\r\n\r\nAs you note (\u201C10,451 sans serif fonts
    birthed in 2012\u201D), it\u2019s serifs\u2014other than slabs\u2014that are out
    of fashion, a fact borne out by the said MyFonts chart.\r\n\r\nBTW, are there
    any other font sales charts, apart from MyFonts and FontSpring?"
  created: '2012-12-28 18:15:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: But zero Papyrus alternatives?
  created: '2012-12-28 18:16:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Except that it\u2019s presently #5, #17 and #18 on the MyFonts chart.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point, Nick.  \r\n\r\nBut I'm not sure that a high ranking necessarily
    means that designers regard it as fashionable. Designers who do corporate work
    need Helvetica in their collection even if they don't particularly like it, plus
    a lot of sales are undoubtedly to non-designers. \r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 19:14:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think we have the same understanding of \u201Cout of fashion\u201D.\r\nTo
    me, it means what\u2019s not popular\u2014and popularity can be measured by font
    sales.\r\nIf you think it means despised and/or ignored by hip designers, that\u2019s
    something else again, and dependent on how one de\uFB01nes both \u201Cdesigners\u201D
    and \u201Chip\u201D.\r\nPunditry is all very well, but what are your quali\uFB01cations,
    what makes you an expert on font fashions?\r\nFrankly James, you and I have no
    idea at all who is licensing Helvetica at MyFonts and why, only conjecture."
  created: '2012-12-28 21:41:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For comparison, according to a list recently compiled by somebody I -and
    others- <em>would</em> pick for a maven, there have been only 40-something <em>notable</em>
    sans fonts in 2012. A nice number.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-28 22:23:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Nick, what I was trying to say is that popularity of fonts as measured by
    sales doesn't necessarily reflect what's \"in fashion\" to professional designers,
    since pros probably make up only a minority of their customers, and many sales
    of Helvetica to pros are because it's a font they need rather than one they'd
    prefer to use. \r\n\r\nJust as the best-selling shirt in the U.S. probably isn't
    the shirt that a fashion designer would buy, or the best-selling couch probably
    isn't the one an interior designer would buy. \r\n\r\nI've got nothing against
    Helvetica, I use it all the time. But my sense is that most pros tend to stay
    away from it due to overuse and its association with work done a few decades ago.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you that this is conjecture. "
  created: '2012-12-28 22:24:46'
date: '2010-02-09 22:12:32'
node_type: forum
title: Client wants to use Papyrus. Help!

---
