---
author:
  name: agisaak
  picture: 115092
body: "Are there any instances where Dutch distinguishes between the digraph '\u0133'
  and 'ij' as a sequence of two distinct graphemes?\r\n\r\nAnd a followup question:
  Do Dutch speakers normally type this character as U0133 or as sequence of i + j?\r\n\r\nTIA\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
comments:
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "There already is a topic which anwsers most of your questions: http://www.typophile.com/node/34111\r\n\r\nAs
    a Dutchman myself, I can say we type i + j, but see them as a single character.
    So they get capitalized together, and also stay together in vertical writing.
    (They also go into a single square in crossword puzzles ;) )\r\n\r\nThe only instance
    I can think of where i+j isn't seen as a single character is when they are the
    end and beginning of two seperate syllables, like in Bijoux (bi-joux), which is
    a word we borrowed from French."
  created: '2010-02-11 08:53:47'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Thanks for your reply and the link.\r\n\r\n'Bijoux' is the sort of example
    I was interested in.\r\n\r\nThe reason I had asked is because I am working on
    a face where some of the alternate forms of ij differ from those which would be
    produced by the sequence i + j. Since I assumed most Dutch speakers would enter
    this character as a sequence, I was thinking of including a localised 'ccmp' feature
    which substituted the sequence with the digraph, but the existence of words like
    'bijoux' demonstrates that that isn't a viable option.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-02-11 10:07:14'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "Fiji (fi-ji) is another word that shouldn't have the <em>\u0133</em>. \r\n\r\nThis
    also brings up another ligature problem: In most cases it should be f+\u0133 (as
    in <Em>fijn</em>) and not \uFB01+j (as in <em>fiji</em>)."
  created: '2010-02-11 10:49:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Andr\xE9\r\n\r\nIn French, when using Word, the spelling dictionnary automatically
    substitutes (if automatic correction is activated) s\u0153ur for soeur, \u0152uvre
    for Oeuvre but leaves moelle and incoercible intact.  There is no need to type
    the letters \u0152 or \u0153.\r\n\r\nFor Dutch, the only words containing ij as
    two letters in  my Thunderbird dictionary are\r\n\r\nAnastasija, Beijing, Dimitrij,
    Fiji, Henrijette, Maija, Marijanne, Mija, Mirijam, Mirijana, Nadija, Naija, Neija,
    Seija, Taija, Veijo, bijektion, bijektionen, bijektionerne, bijektiv, bijob, bijobbet,
    bijouteri, bijouterivarer, dijonsennep, fijianer, fijiansk, frijord, hijacker,
    hijacking, politijagt, rijsttafel\r\n\r\n(is \"rijsttafel\" really with two separate
    letters?). That means (in my  opinion) the words with the letter \u0133 should
    be automatically corrected by the spell checker. That is part of its job.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-11 13:08:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Sorry, I conflated the .da dictionary with the Dutch dictionary. The nl <a
    href=\"http://wiki.services.openoffice.org/wiki/Dictionaries#Dutch_.28Netherlands.29\">Open
    Office Dutch</a> dictionary contains 13853 entries with ij as two letters. Bad
    luck!  My list was good for Danish I guess. That does not change the fact I think
    it is the spell checker that should do the substitution.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-11 13:50:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>There already is a topic which anwsers most of your questions: [[http://www.typophile.com/node/34111]]</cite>\r\n\r\nAh,
    that was a fun thread. To repeat some of the relevant bits:\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson:
    <cite>Actually, Unicode encoded the Dutch IJ/ij digraphs as distinct characters,
    separate from the I+J and i+j sequences, because they were pre-existing characters
    inherited from a Dutch telecom standard. For the most part, Unicode does not encode
    digraphs. But some are encoded for backwards, roundtrip compatibility, as in this
    case.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>For the most part, Dutch users do not use the digraph
    characters -- although some, like Thomas Milo, certainly advocate its use -- they
    just type I+J and i+j. So far as I know, the IJ/ij digraph characters are not
    accessible via the standard Dutch keyboard.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe: <cite>I don't think
    automatic ligation is the best option because not every 'ij' combination in Dutch
    is the digraph (even if for 99% of the time it is). The 'i' and 'j' might come
    from different syllables, or it might be a loanword.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>My take:
    to use special 'ij' and 'IJ' ligatures for Dutch, one should manually search and
    replace the 'ij' and 'IJ' combinations in the text, taking care to make sure to
    replace only when the digraph is wanted.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know of a dictionary
    of the kind Michel was looking for, that distinguishes between the digraph 'ij'
    and the non-digraph 'i'+'j' sequence? I doubt one exists."
  created: '2010-02-11 14:07:28'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>Does anyone know of a dictionary of the kind Michel was looking for,
    that distinguishes between the digraph 'ij' and the non-digraph 'i'+'j' sequence?
    I doubt one exists.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot that I know of. It never has been a problem
    ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>(Michel) That means (in my opinion) the words with the letter
    \u0133 should be automatically corrected by the spell checker. That is part of
    its job.</cite>\r\n\r\nJah. Well. Maybe not. Being Dutch, I'd object against forcing
    all ij's to be typed as \u0133s. (Not really visible, is it? I mean the separate
    'i' 'j' to be typed as a single character.)\r\n\r\nThe \"ij\" has a <em>status
    aparte</em> in Dutch but it does not need any specialized software handling, where
    \"oe\" vs. \"\u0153\" <em>does</em>.\r\nThe status aparte is especially significant
    when capitalizing (IJmuiden, IJstijd) and sorting (as a single glyph in the place
    of \"Y\" -- and suddenly, I have no idea what happens with native words starting
    with an \"Y\"! (before? after? interleaved?)).\r\n\r\nGranted, sorting and capitalizing
    would be easier for programmers if the digraph was a single glyph, but virtually
    all of our current \"smart\" software would need to be re-written ;-)"
  created: '2010-02-11 15:10:07'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "Martin Majoor writes in <em>'Had de Franse koning schoenmaat 49?'</em> (his
    chapter in <em>'Letters, een bloemlezing over typografie'</em>):\r\n\r\n\"De typisch
    Nederlandse diftong <em>ij</em> wordt in alfabetische lijsten op grond van haar
    klank vaak tussen de <em>y</em> geplaatst. Dat is net zo onjuist als dat met de
    letter <em>c</em> op grond van haar klank tussen de <em>k</em> of <em>s</em> rangschikt.
    En ook de andere diftongen (<em>au, eu</em> etc.) staan gewoon in alfabetische
    volgorde. Het gebruik om bij een beginhoofdletter de beide tekens van de <em>ij</em>
    in kapitaal te zetten - zoals in IJmuiden - is formeel gezien niet juist (men
    maakt er ook geen AUsterlitz van of OUde Pekela). De oorspronkelijke schrijfwijze
    Ymuiden ligt waarschijnlijk ten grondslag aan dit ingeburgerde gebruik. Bij spati\xEBren
    van een kapitaal woord met een lange IJ moeten dus ook de I en de J gespatieerd
    worden.\r\nI J M U I D E N en niet IJ M U I D E N .\"\r\n\r\n(I'll try to translate
    it in English for those who don't speak Dutch.)\r\n\r\n\"In alfabetical ordered
    lists, the typical Dutch diphtong <em>ij</em> is often ordered with the <em>y</em>,
    based on it's pronounciation. That is just as wrong as ordering the <em>c</em>,
    based on it's pronounciation, with the <em>k</em> or <em>s</em>. Also, other diphtongs
    (<em>au, eu</em> etc.) are ordered in a normal alfabetical way. The use of capitalizing
    both characters - as with <em>IJmuiden</em> - is formally wrong. The original
    spelling <em>Ymuiden</em> is probably the basis of the common practice. When spacing
    a word in capitals with an IJ, the I and J should be spaced seperatly.\r\n<em>I
    J M U I D E N</em> en not <em>IJ M U I D E N</em> .\""
  created: '2010-02-11 15:39:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Good quote, ne'erblink!\r\n\r\nThe letterspacing is certainly a good issue;
    what is the French usage, for example with \"s\u0153ur\"?"
  created: '2010-02-11 16:28:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is from http://www.fhscm.com/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fhscm_5378.jpg]\r\nYou
    often see OE, as two letters (but never at the start of a word in careful editing).
    For fullcaps or  smallcaps, I have no fast access to some relevant documentation."
  created: '2010-02-11 17:50:32'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "So if a font includes a \xABtrue\xBB (connected) \"ij\" variant (sort of
    like a discretionary ligature), would that have to be applied manually? Would
    anybody want to do that or is it usually too much hassle?"
  created: '2010-02-11 22:27:49'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Nina -- personally, the latter option :-)\r\n\r\nOh, unless there is a <em>really</em>
    good drawn ij ligature in the font, worth replacing (and worth potentially mucking
    up text search, alphabetizing ... etc.). If it comes as an Opentype option, that'd
    be even better."
  created: '2010-02-11 23:24:05'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "Nina, that depends on the text. Like Theunis says; If it was short and the
    ligature was nice, I'd go through the text and change it.\r\n\r\nAlthough I can't
    remember ever seeing any text (that wasn't handwritten) with a <em>true ij</em>.
    Other than logo's. You can find old letters written on a typewriter that use the
    <em>y</em> (or even y-dieresis) instead of a (disconnected) <em>ij</em>."
  created: '2010-02-12 08:05:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Ah, I guess it's rarer than I thought. Thanks guys!
  created: '2010-02-12 09:04:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>You can find old letters written on a typewriter that use the y (or
    even y-dieresis) instead of a (disconnected) ij.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomewhat related:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/60316?page=4#comment-394823"
  created: '2010-02-12 12:39:18'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "<em>The nl Open Office Dutch dictionary contains 13853 entries with ij as
    two letters. Bad luck!\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n</em>\r\n---------------\r\n\r\nTo add
    to the confusion: What you've found is probably <strong>every</strong> word in
    the Dutch language that contains an i-j combination, whether they 'should' be
    written with a ligated/single glyph <em>\u0133</em> or not. There is no spelling
    difference between <em>i</em> followed by <em>j</em> or an <em>\u0133</em>."
  created: '2010-02-12 13:35:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>What you've found is probably every word in the Dutch language that
    contains an i-j combination</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed! The first line of the file <code>nl_NL.aff</code>
    is<CODE>\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;SET ISO8859-1</CODE>\r\nwhich means the dictionary <code>nl_NL.dic</code>
    was encoded in ISO8859-1, which has no encoding for the digraph \u0133. \r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-12 20:00:27'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "So purely a technical reason, Michel ... I've also seen Dutch word lists
    that use '\xFF' for the digraph.\r\n(Admittedly, that encoding might have been
    a shortcut for aforementioned crossword creators/solvers, since the '\xFF' character
    does not occur in Dutch, and the 'ij' combo is treated as a single character.
    I don't have that list at my fingertips, but I might check some time if 'bijou'
    <em>is</em> written in full -- correctly.)"
  created: '2010-02-12 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>So purely a technical reason, Michel ...</cite>\r\n\r\n Well, the other
    OpenOffice dictionaries I have seem to be sorted alphabetically, that  Dutch dictionary
    is not; it seems it was randomized. If it had been sorted, there would have been
    a way to test whether, according to those responsible for the dictionary, the
    digraph is the 25th letter of the alphabet or not. The way the dictionary is,
    there seems to be no way to test any hypothesis concerning the digraph and I start
    wondering if that is not intentional.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-12 22:00:02'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Concerning spacing, here is what the <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode5.2.0/\"><strong>Unicode
    Standard, Version 5.2</strong></a> says (chapter 7, pages 203-204):\r\n<cite>\r\nAnother
    pair of characters, U+0133 latin small ligature ij and its uppercase version,
    was provided to support the digraph \u201Cij\u201D in Dutch, often termed a \u201Cligature\u201D
    in discussions of Dutch orthography. When adding intercharacter spacing for line
    justification, the \u201Cij\u201D is kept as a unit, and the space between the
    i and j does not increase. In titlecasing, both the i and the j are uppercased,
    as in the word \u201CIJsselmeer.\u201D Using a single code point might simplify
    software support for such features; however, because a vast amount of Dutch data
    is encoded without this digraph character, under most circumstances one will encounter
    an &lt;i, j&gt; sequence.\r\n</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-14 17:11:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Martin Majoor states that, \"The use of capitalizing both characters - as
    with IJmuiden - is formally wrong.\"\r\nBut that's the way it's often spelled,
    for instance by the town itself, e.g. on its website:\r\nhttp://www.ijmuidenaanzee.nl/\r\nI've
    seen old maps with it spelled that way, too, so it may well be traditional.\r\n\r\n<em>Fiji
    is spelled Fidji, </em>\r\n\r\nAnd marijuana marihuana.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 09:24:05'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "There is a difference betvveen Form and Function.\r\n\r\nThe FORM of IJ,
    or better, Dutch \"Double I\" in analogij to \"Double U\" (vvhich nobodij vvould
    seriouslij consider to be a digraph or a ligature), can appear as a digraph looking
    like a juxtaposition of I+J. But that is just one of its possible forms, another
    one is \xFC vvith the tail of j, or a \xDC vvith an interrupted left leg. All
    of this can be encoded vvhichever vvaij ijou vvant - as a single character or
    a ligature. The realitij is that Dutch users are forced to tijpe vvith the tvvo
    strokes I+J - and Dutch-ignorant softvvare encodes it as I+J.\r\n\r\nThe FUNCTION
    of IJ (Double I) is completelij equivalent to the function of Double U: it's a
    single character in Dutch orthographij. All the observations above like capitalization,
    horizontal spacing (where Martin Majoor is prescribing new usage and condemning
    actual practice), vertical spelling can lead to only one conclusion: IJ is a letter
    and lacks proper support. Apps like the iPhone vvould do vvell to capitalize IJ
    correctlij vvhen the Dutch keijboard is active.\r\n\r\nA convincing example is
    the Dutch version of the LINGO game, verij representative of the popular perception
    of a vvriting sijstem: IJ is treated bij the mass of Dutch speakers as a single
    letter - as a result it's a daily struggle to maintain it against English-biased
    software. The attached image also exposes naive layout software, wrestling to
    squeeze both Double I and Double U into the box.\r\n\r\nThe suggestion \"to search
    and replace the 'ij' and 'IJ' combinations in the text manuallij, taking care
    to make sure to replace onlij vvhen the digraph is vvanted\" comes form Outer
    Space. It is in fact denijing Dutch users the benefit of automation. In Dutch,
    everij I+J is Double I, the exceptions are negligible and, from a Dutch perspective,
    irrelevant. BTVV, the English vvord Fiji is spelled Fidji, so that's not even
    a candidate - I knovv, because I vvas UN liaison officer vvith the Fiji Battalion
    :-).\r\n\r\nTo give the foreign readers an impression of what Dutch really looks
    like without proper support for IJ, I have changed in this English text all digraphs
    W into VV and, in passing, all letter Y into IJ. To correct this, you are advised
    to manually replace all affected letter groups with the correct English digraphs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/\u0635\u0648\u0631\u0629_6706.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-21 09:24:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Nick, you're absolutely right: English words are spelled as such and fall
    outside the Double I system. In Arabic we would say, there's Ijm\u0101\u02BF -
    Consensus.\r\n\r\nIJmuiden can only be spelled in one manner: with a single capital
    IJ. Spelling is with upper case I and lower case j is no option. It would look
    just as ridiculous as Vvilliam instead of William.\r\n\r\nHere are some examples
    of horizontal spacing taken from the vvidelij used BOS-ATLAS. For anyone with
    a Dutch education, these are stock images.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0386_6226.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0388_6154.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0389_3883.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0390_5890.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0391_3539.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0392_4660.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0393_6340.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0394_5341.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/_IMG_0395_6405.JPG]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 09:44:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "The start of this thead, to make a typeface that treats Double I intelligently
    is a great project. Here's anothet Dutch borrowing that needs to be exempted:
    HI-JACK\r\n\r\nWhen I wrote that the IJ as I+J is irrelevant from a Dutch perspective,
    I recently saw a nice example showing that IJ and Y are seen as variants of the
    same letter (Dutch memorize the alphabet ending in X, IJ, Z): Byoux for You![img:sites/default/files/old-images/Byoux_3513.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-21 10:36:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Here are some more examples of how IJ is traditionally treated in typography,
    before the tsunami of Dutch-ignorant software hit the beaches. But also today
    a respected newspaper like NRC Handelsblad would never break up IJ - in fact nobody
    does, apparently with the sole exception of Martin Majoor, who has no mainstream
    followers.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7297_5196.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7298_6248.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7299_5505.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7300_6064.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7303_3898.JPG][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_7308_6498.JPG]"
  created: '2010-02-21 10:47:32'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Finally, before it gets boring, some examples from Brill Publishers in Leiden,
    who are adamant that IJ be supported. An elegant way to combine I+J into Double
    I is to let J extend below the base line, as can be seen in the examples.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IJ_all_caps_Brill_Garamond_1962_5289.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij_spaced_Brill_letterproef_1932_3557.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/ij_spaced_Brill_OldStyle_1962_5034.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-21 11:09:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: All caps example with IJ extending fails to upload - will try later
  created: '2010-02-21 11:14:26'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "A great set of examples, but just a tiny niggle: even though I have a 21.5
    widescreen, the web site is restrained to a measly (hold on--measuring) 800 pixels
    wide ... lots of horizontal scrolling going on ...\r\n\r\nYour Brill examples
    are hardly contemporary! The regular \"J\" also hangs below the baseline, so the
    \"IJ\" is just conforming to the entire character design.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, well,
    what I said, great. The Lingo tv shot is hilarious! Never noticed that before.
    It seems the \"regular\" characters are horizontally centered but \"IJ\" is not.
    The Bosatlas (maps) samples show \"IJ\" does <em>not</em> get broken when spacing
    out text:\r\n\r\nF R A N K R IJ K\r\n\r\nIts index shows \"IJ-\" between \"Ii-\"
    and \"Ik-\" ... which, actually, <em>looks</em> totally logical to me (a born
    and bred Dutchie), and I'm starting to think sorting's not a problem either way
    because we just <em>may</em> unwittingly have developed a habit of looking in
    <em>two</em> places for \"IJgenwijs\" :-O"
  created: '2010-02-21 12:29:20'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Still my favourite illustration: <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/34111?from=0&comments_per_page=5000#comment-247929\">W\u0133
    eisen \u0133s!</a>"
  created: '2010-02-21 12:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thomas, the scans are great.\r\nHowever, it would be better for display here
    if:\r\n1. Image is set to 72 pixels per inch.\r\n2. Image is 588 pixels maximum
    width (larger brings up scroll bar)\r\nImage may be either .jpg or .png."
  created: '2010-02-21 17:18:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know that the Dutch \"ij\" glyph has a separate character in OCR-B, and
    that at least some manual typewriters sold in the Netherlands did have a key for
    \"ij\" even if the Dutch keyboard for Microsoft Windows does not. So it is indeed
    more than just a ligature, even though the fact that it is treated as a letter
    of the alphabet by the Dutch is confusing to everyone else.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    the thought that \"ij\" is really the Dutch way of writing \"y\" would mean that
    there <em>is</em> a key for it on every Latin keyboard... and all one has to do
    is draw the glyph appropriately. That, though, is probably not a realistic option
    - and, indeed, one of the examples given shows IJ as collating as though it were
    i + j instead of as Y, even if another example shows it drawn almost as a y-umlaut.\r\n\r\nI
    had remembered about IJ in OCR-B from the article \"Inside ASCII\" by Bob Bemer
    in Interface Age: I was able to find two examples on the web:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontage.com/pages/ocrb10n.html\r\nhttp://www.barcode-soft.com/kb/ocrb.aspx\r\n\r\nshowing
    this - the face is monospaced, so the IJ characters omit the serif which is present
    on I and J as individual letters."
  created: '2010-02-21 19:13:45'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I wonder if there's any connection to these y with diaeresis which I found
    in the northernmost part of Germany. Traditionally, there has been spoken a variety
    of North Frisian I believe, but these inscriptions are not North Frisian.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3687175104_b298719454_3959.jpg]\r\n\r\nJens
    R. Knud\u017Fen\r\nKe\xFFt\u016Bm\r\nGebohren 1762 d. 7. M\xE4\xFF\r\nim Ehe\u017Ftand
    gelebt.\r\nGe\u017Ftorben 1791 d. 30. J\u0171n\xFF\r\nalt 29 Jahr 7 Wochen 4 T.\r\nIch
    lieg \u016Bnd \u017Fchlaf, n\u016Bn\r\nGutenacht, Die ihr mich\r\nbis hie her
    gebracht. Wohl\r\ne\u016Bch Wohl e\u016Bch, ich r\u016Bhe\r\nfein In die\u017Fen,
    in einen\r\nK\xE4mmerlein\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3687174566_d82275b109_5834.jpg]\r\n\r\nPietate
    et Iustitia\r\n1682\r\nLister D\xFFbs Told Cammer"
  created: '2010-02-22 18:06:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This has piqued my curiosity.\r\n\r\nFrom this page, mirroring some content
    from Roman Czyborra no longer on the web,\r\n\r\nhttp://www.terena.org/activities/multiling/ml-docs/iso-8859.html\r\n\r\nI
    see that not even any of the ISO 8859 series, let alone the registered national
    variants of the 7-bit ISO 646 code included it...\r\n\r\nThe Wikipedia article
    has much of interest...\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IJ_%28digraph%29\r\n\r\nhowever,
    looking elsewhere in Robert Bemer's Inside ASCII article, use of national use
    positions for IJ is described; the variant was apparently just not registered.
    I had expected it must have been a character, given that it was included in OCR-B."
  created: '2010-02-23 03:33:35'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thomas, I never questioned the proper typographic practices regarding ij
    in Dutch. While I appreciate the numerous examples, what they showed\u2014IJ capitalized
    as a unit, treated as a unit when letterspacing, etc.\u2014were certainly not
    new to me, and have all come up in the discussions here.\r\n\r\nSurely, such appropriate
    typographic treatment would be much, much easier if the Dutch ij was encoded as
    a single character (well, you know what I mean), so I see where your argument
    is coming from. Also, electronic dictionaries with the ij encoded appropriately
    would be a great aid in automatized text processing.\r\n\r\nHowever, my suggestion
    was based not on that ideal situation but on the reality that the vast majority
    of digital texts in Dutch including electronic dictionaries do not encode the
    ij as a single character but use the sequence i+j. The standard Dutch keyboard
    has no way of inputting the Dutch ij other than as the sequence. Even if the Dutch
    adopt a new keyboard enabling them to enter ij, there will be a huge amount of
    legacy texts to deal with, plus the fact that outsiders will presumably continue
    to type i+j for any ij in Dutch.\r\n\r\nSo I am operating under these assumptions
    when I oppose automatic ligation for ij, even if in Dutch texts 99% of the i+j
    combination represents the character ij (as you can check, I already acknowledged
    this). That and the fact that language tagging of existing digital texts is not
    entirely reliable. Do we trust that texts in Dutch will be consistently tagged
    as being Dutch, and that portions of non-Dutch text in a predominantly Dutch document
    will also be appropriately language-tagged? This just isn't realistic.\r\n\r\nI
    said \"one should manually search and replace the 'ij' and 'IJ' combinations in
    the text, taking care to make sure to replace only when the digraph is wanted.\"
    Maybe I made it sound cumbersome, but is it really too much to ask that a human
    editor check to see if the text is (a) in Dutch and (b) doesn't contain one of
    the very, very rare instances in Dutch where the combination i+j shouldn't be
    replaced by the ij character? It's still search and replace, which the software
    automatically does for you. I'm merely warning against blind automatism, where
    you think you can simply build this functionality into a font, for instance."
  created: '2010-02-23 10:28:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I have since found that the normal Dutch practice was to substitute IJ and
    ij for \ and | respectively in 7-bit ASCII, although this was not registered as
    a national-use set. My source does not show the $ or some other national-use character
    being replaced by the modified f currency symbol.
  created: '2010-02-23 13:44:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "Using the proper codes for UC&lc \"Double I\" would be best, and I agree
    that without an input method, this will not happen.\r\n\r\nA hardware keyboard
    is a no-brainer. Easiest would be a Dutch keyboard driver or locale that intercepts
    all I+J sequences and and replaces them. Without manual or automatic correction
    it would of course also affect a minimal number of borrowings. But it would be
    ridiculous to consider minimal damage to a limited number foreign words a problem,
    while real damage to Dutch words was never a concern. After all we now have have
    a legacy of tons of miscoded text - a fact that UNICODE standard has the chutzpah
    to use as an argument to perpetuate this bizarre situation :-)\r\n\r\nAlternatively,
    smart font technology could be deployed to display I+J sequences as Double I.
    This makes sense, after all for the end-user it makes no difference how it's done,
    as long as it works. But that doesn't solve the problem of sorting. \"Double I\"
    really belongs at the end of the alphabet, because words so spelled often correspond
    with words that have Y. This is especially the case with names. Some branches
    of the same family spell their names as Meijdrecht, others as Meydrecht. When
    correctly sorted, these names would be mixed into the same positions, but when
    sorted with I+J they are split up. Very unpractical and counter-intuitive.\r\n\r\nIn
    either case, but especially when using font technology instead of proper coding,
    some kind of language tagging is helpful, but not mandatory. Not to have language
    tagging is harmless when compared with the present automatism, that blindly -
    and wrongly - assumes that for Dutch, like for English, any combination of I+J
    is not a Double I. For Dutch it's really more pragmatic to assume that all cases
    of I+J are Double I, and accept some marginal collateral damage. At least then
    you get the casing and sorting, and about everything else, right."
  created: '2010-02-23 17:58:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: The North German tomb stone doesn't seem to be in Frisian, it's more like
    slightly antiquated German. The place name Keijtum looks indeed Frisian. There
    are many Frisian place names ending in -um ("heem", "Heim", "home"?) in a broad
    Frisan belt that starts just North of Amsterdam (West Friesland), and that follows
    the coastline (Friesland, East Friesland) - all the way to the Danish border.
  created: '2010-02-23 18:14:49'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "What problem would it cause to temporarily encode \u0133 as \xFF and \u0132
    as \u0178. The letters Y and y with dieresis do not occur in Dutch, so far as
    I know, and should be as easy to type as \xEB for instance. The names Me\xFFdrecht
    and Meydrecht would be properly sorted. After sorting, globally substituting \u0133
    for \xFF and \u0132  for \u0178 would produce a file ready for final processing.
    In fact, it should also be quite easy to modify a keyboard layout so that the
    combination normally giving \xFF would produce \u0133 and the one normally giving
    \u0178 would produce \u0132. Again, global substitution between \xFF and \u0133
    can be applied for sorting and backwards for producing the final text."
  created: '2010-02-23 18:31:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I now found a manual for the DEC VT340 terminal which gives a \"national
    replacement character set\". This includes a y-umlaut, which presumably is a misprint
    for ij.\r\n\r\nThe Dutch 7-bit modified ISO 646 or CCITT Telegraph Alphabet No.
    5 which I found there has the following changes from ASCII:\r\n\r\n# -> British
    pound sign\r\n@ -> 3/4\r\n[ -> ij\r\n\\ -> 1/2\r\n] -> | (!!!)\r\n^ as is\r\n_
    as is\r\n` as is\r\n{ -> diaresis combining form\r\n| -> florin sign\r\n} -> 1/4\r\n~
    -> acute accent combining form "
  created: '2010-02-23 18:37:12'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>The letters Y and y with dieresis do not occur in Dutch, so far as
    I know</cite>\r\n\r\nHowever, Dutch text-processing has to work in Belgium too,
    and ydieresis does occur in French place and personal names from Belgium and northeastern
    France (Cro\xFF, for example)."
  created: '2010-02-23 19:56:52'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>ydieresis does occur in French place and personal names from Belgium
    and northeastern France (Cro\xFF, for example).</cite>\r\n\r\nAre there many such
    names? What I have in mind is certainly not ideal but assuming \xFF is substituted
    for \u0133 for sorting and then \u0133 is substituted for \xFF, we then end up
    with Cro\u0133, which is wrong. It is then possible to replace globally Cro\xFF
    for Cro\u0133 and if the list of such names is small, that may still be worth
    considering for batch processing (unless there are two names that are identical,
    except that one uses the \u0133 digraph and the other \xFF)."
  created: '2010-02-23 20:28:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Michel: <em>What problem would it cause to temporarily encode \u0133 as \xFF
    and \u0132 as \u0178.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy would you want to do that?"
  created: '2010-02-23 22:06:50'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Why would you want to do that?</cite>\r\n\r\nFor sorting without having
    to write a sorting procedure and without having to figure out how to use <code>localedef</code>
    to define a new locale with a collating sequence where the digraph \u0133 would
    be sorted as y or \xFF (which I don't know how to do on my Mac; I guess I could
    do it on Linux).\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-23 22:38:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Of course what the Dutch should <em>really</em> have done is encode A as @,
    B as A, C as B... X as W, IJ as X, Y as Y and Z as Z so as to have no problems
    with sorting. Thus, their computers would be perfectly adapted to their language,
    and in the extremely rare cases where data is transferred across national boundaries,
    translation can always be applied.
  created: '2010-02-24 00:56:10'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>X as W, IJ as X, Y as Y and Z as Z so as to have no problems with sorting</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    problem to sort Phone directories or Yellow pages but that would be the wrong
    order for dictionaries according to the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IJ_(digraph)#Collation\">IJ
    Digraph</a> wiki, as well as the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collating_sequence\">collating
    sequence</a> wiki.\r\n\r\nPS For more serious stuff on collating sequences, the
    <a href=\"http://unicode.org/reports/tr10/\">Unicode collation algorithm</a> is
    worth having a look at. "
  created: '2010-02-24 02:23:54'
date: '2010-02-11 08:35:36'
node_type: forum
title: Question regarding Dutch 'ij'

---
