---
author:
  name: Igor Freiberger
  picture: 115255
body: "I'm designing my first typeface, a contemporary serif family with four weights.
  I'd like to use massive contextual alternates (as in Kinescope or Vesper), but I
  have doubts about the limits to use this feature.\r\n\r\nI plan to adopt contextual
  alternates through stylistic sets for these situations:\r\n\r\n1. beginnings and
  endings;\r\n2. glyphs collisions and undesired optical effects;\r\n3. typesetting
  special symbols as arrows and flourishes;\r\n4. Roman numerals;\r\n5. chess notation
  with figurines (unsure about this one);\r\n6. mathematical symbols and expressions.\r\n\r\nBesides
  this, there would also be optional variations in some glyphs (typically, Q, R, f,
  a) which could also be set with stylistic sets.\r\n\r\nSo, is there any problem
  to set dozens or even hundreds of contextual alternates in OT tables? This may cause
  poor performance?\r\n\r\nI understand some of the situations I listed could be addressed
  with GREP styles in InDesign (as Roman numerals and chess notation), but it would
  be nice if the font had all these features.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "There won't be any performance issues. Similarly, there could be, and usually
    are, tons of lookups in the GPOS kern feature which don't effect rendering performance.\r\n\r\nSome
    of the alternates you plan to design may be better suited in other features, such
    as Stylistic Alternates and Discretionary Ligatures."
  created: '2010-02-12 21:59:42'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Terrance.\r\nWhich features do you consider to be best defined as
    Stylistic Alternates or Discricionary Ligatutes?"
  created: '2010-02-12 22:13:49'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "Well, stylistic alternates are usually for the 'optional variations' as you
    described it, like a g, a, tail on Q, etc.\r\n\r\nBe careful with ligatures too,
    try to resolve glyph collisions with sidebearings and kerning first.\r\n\r\nSpend
    some time looking at the features and how they are used with other designs."
  created: '2010-02-12 22:16:45'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks again. I'll follow your advice!
  created: '2010-02-12 22:21:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The only program I\u2019ve run into that has problems with numerous lookups
    is Illustrator, which can lag as much as a second when I type in the characters
    from my font Black Monday. But in that case every single character is cycled by
    CALT."
  created: '2010-02-12 23:34:29'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: James, this may be an issue. Do the Illustrator delay occurs just when Contextual
    Alternates are turned on? Which IL version are you using? Mac or Windows?
  created: '2010-02-13 00:28:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Just with CALT on, using CS3 on Mac. '
  created: '2010-02-13 00:48:43'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: For what it's worth, I haven't noticed any performance hit on any of the fonts
    I've done that have "advanced" contextual stuff in them, in Illustrator or otherwise.
    They seem to display just as fast as any other font. Maybe they're not "advanced"
    enough.
  created: '2010-02-13 01:08:55'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks again for these valuable inputs.\r\n\r\nI still did not saw the use
    of CALT to substitute Arabic/Roman numbers. As the font is (also) designed to
    be used in legal texts, the idea is to typeset something like 48 and to have XLVIII
    in an automatic way. Maybe the idea is very much strange...\r\n\r\nThe possibility
    to combine chess figurines or typical computing itens (keyboard shortcuts, icons)
    seems also uncommon. Hope this would not be excessively out of CALT purpose.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 01:23:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The roman numeral thing has been done before:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/ihof/p22-operina/\r\n\r\nNo
    idea how it works. P22 has done some unusual things with calt, including a font
    that answers questions sort of like a Magic 8 Ball."
  created: '2010-02-13 03:43:40'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "It's really hard to be original these days.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe feature P22 built
    is very smart. I believe they used nested lookups to achieve the substitution
    to any number, starting with units and adding set of ten, hundreds and thousands
    in a hierarchical way. Need to learn further about this.\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    tip, Mark."
  created: '2010-02-13 15:07:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I put four versions of each character in Duffy Script, and they cycle character-by-character
    using the "calt" feature, for a pseudo-random effect. I did notice a slight delay
    when opening large multi-page documents, but not something that might be attributed
    specifically to a font. I should add that this an entirely subjective observation,
    I haven't made any measurements or calculations.
  created: '2010-02-13 16:21:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "There is some performance hit, but very little, and mostly noticed on older
    computers and older computer systems. \r\n\r\nIn the Zapfino Extra LT Pro code
    that I developed in 2003, there are about 600+ contextual substitutions in about
    a dozen lookups. In applications such as InDesign CS2 and Notepad running on Windows
    XP, tested some 4-5 years ago, there was a performance hit, i.e. using a really
    long text (100 pages or so), it does take noticeably longer time to lay out the
    pages than when a \"regular\" font is used. \r\n\r\nThough in InDesign, after
    the initial delay in laying out the pages, the performance is good, since InDesign
    caches the glyphs. In Notepad, such caching does not take place, so even scrolling
    up and down the pages was kind of slow. \r\n\r\nBut such complex fonts are rarely
    used for continuous text that has hundreds of pages. Plus, the computers and the
    applications have gotten faster in text processing. So the problem is going away.
    And the benefits of smart fonts are in my opinion worth paying the (small) price.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-13 18:46:44'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Careful with Roman numerals.\r\nI had set these up as regular ligatures of
    numbers (there is probably another node advising against this).\r\nIt worked well
    - however inDesign seems to have ligatures switched on as default so all numbers
    above 9 became Roman numerals when entering in un-styled raw text.\r\nI have since
    learned the lesson had have made into a Stylistic Set!"
  created: '2010-02-14 21:33:09'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "@ All: thank you very very much! It's an honor to receive advices from masters
    in type design. My plan is to use stylistic sets as this:\r\n\r\n<strong>1</strong>.
    glyph alternates for lowercase (a, f, g, k, y);\r\n<strong>2</strong>. glyph alternates
    for uppercase (G, K, R);\r\n<strong>3</strong>. beginnings;\r\n<strong>4</strong>.
    endings;\r\n<strong>5</strong>. Roman numerals;\r\n<strong>6</strong>. alternates
    for undesired optical effects;\r\n<strong>7</strong>. arrows, flourishes and dingbats;\r\n<strong>8</strong>.
    math symbols and alternates for math expressions;\r\n<strong>9</strong>. figurine
    chess notation.\r\n\r\nOf course, now I have to discover how to do the Roman numerals
    substitution for all numbers using OT lookups. The other I believe I already discovered
    how to (although I did not tested all this as the design is just beginning).\r\n\r\nAgain,
    thank you all."
  created: '2010-02-14 23:19:30'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "See if this suits you..\r\nNote - I have added roman numerals upto 16 in
    my fonts as this is an expected usage of numbering of the 1st section in a book.
    ie 16 pages in a section.\r\n\r\nI notice I have not updated the code to reflect
    this, but will post as is so I don't mess up what I have already.\r\n\r\nNote
    \ # The order is important :\r\nI think I found through trial and error that this
    order seemed to work.\r\nI still need to retest this, but I think it works...\r\n\r\nNote
    \   #testing if ligatures work in SS: \r\nSelf fulfilling prophesy! Here I am
    testing it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n====\r\n\r\nfeature ss05 {\r\n\r\n  \r\n   # Romansmall\r\n
    # Ligatures\r\n # The order is important \r\n\t\tsub one' zero' zero' zero' by
    onethousandroman;\r\n\t\tsub one' zero' zero' by onehundredroman;\r\n\t\tsub five'
    zero' zero' by fivehundredroman;\r\n\t\tsub one' zero' by tenroman;\r\n\t\tsub
    one' one' by elevenroman;\r\n\t\tsub one' two' by twelveroman;\r\n\t\tsub one'
    three' by thirteenroman;\r\n\t\tsub one' four' by fourteenroman;\r\n\t\tsub one'
    five' by fifteenroman;\r\n\t\tsub five' zero' by fiftyroman;\r\n        sub one
    by oneroman;\r\n  \tsub two by tworoman;\r\n  \tsub three by threeroman;\r\n  \tsub
    four by fourroman;\r\n  \tsub five by fiveroman;\r\n\t\tsub six by sixroman;\r\n\t\tsub
    seven by sevenroman;\r\n\t\tsub eight by eightroman;\r\n\t\tsub nine by nineroman;\r\n
    \ \r\n  #testing if ligatures work in SS\r\n  \r\n  \r\n} ss05;\r\n\r\n\r\n============\r\n\r\nhere
    is my swap from lowercase to uppercase Roman numerals:\r\n@roman1 being lowercase\r\n@roman2
    being the Caps version\r\n\r\n============\r\n\r\nfeature ss03 {\r\n# Stylist
    Set: Roman Large\r\n\r\n  sub @roman1 by @roman2;\r\n  \r\n} ss03;\r\n\r\n\r\n==========="
  created: '2010-02-14 23:54:30'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thank you, Michael. Wonderful help! I'll try it later and then bring you back
    the results.
  created: '2010-02-15 01:15:33'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: One of my targets are legal texts. Brazilian Constitution has a sequence of
    itens numbered in Roman which goes until LXXVIII (!).
  created: '2010-02-15 01:22:56'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "When ordering the Stylistic sets the set changing from lowercase to Capital
    Roman numeral style needs to come last.\r\n\r\nIn my example above I have changed
    the order so that what was SS03 is now SS06."
  created: '2010-02-15 09:51:55'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Actually converting a date like 2012 to a roman numerals as you are trying
    to do is difficult and will need further input.\r\nI have settled for a compromise
    and am limiting use to automatically change two numbers to small roman numerals
    for folios, with an option to change the result to Large Roman Numerals.\r\n \r\nI
    was considering a database or a modular approach but neither seemed workable.
    \r\nIf your usage was for current dates you could create glyphs for the next 10
    years perhaps?\r\n\r\nFor me the limit is that OpenType allows for a string in,
    like f_f_l but can only out put a single glyph and not a composite of 2 or more
    glyphs (to my knowledge).\r\nThere might be a solution if you were able to set
    up conditions like \"IF there are 4 numbers together treat the first one like
    this and the second like this... ex-cetera\" but this is way beyond me.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck."
  created: '2010-02-15 10:03:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>One of my targets are legal texts. Brazilian Constitution has a sequence
    of itens numbered in Roman which goes until LXXVIII (!).</cite>\r\n\r\nShouldn't
    it be leaved to layout programs instead of fonts?"
  created: '2010-02-15 18:36:54'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: You can map a single character to multiple glyphs using AFDKO, but many applications
    don't currently recognise this type of substitution. Moreover, I agree with riccardO
    that this really is more appropriate for the application to implement rather than
    the font.
  created: '2010-02-15 21:19:44'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>@ Michael</strong>: thanks again for the input.\r\n\r\n<strong>@
    Riccard0 and Agisaak</strong>: sure, you're right. As I stated above, features
    like Roman numerals may be best suited for InDesign GREP styles. But the possibility
    to have automatic number substitution through OT hooked me. At least, it's an
    opportunity to learn more about OT tables and features.\r\n\r\nI'm testing a way
    to have this substitution for almost all numbers. Of course, this is just useful
    if does not cause hundreds of lines of code. If I get it done, I'll share here."
  created: '2010-02-15 21:59:56'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Well, without using one to many substitutions, this would be fairly straightforward
    provided you included ligatures for roman numerals 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 20, 30,
    40, 60 and 70 (assuming you only want to go as high as LXXVIII). To produce larger
    numbers you'd need more ligatures, but it would remain manageable. A simple ignore
    statement could be used to prevent the feature from applying to numbers which
    fall outside of the range.\r\n\r\nI'll leave the actual code as an exercise for
    the reader.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-02-15 23:12:56'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>Automatic Roman numerals from Arabic ones</strong>\r\n\r\nI created
    a code to apply automatic substitution to any number from 1 to 9999. With just
    37 substitutions, the code seems to be fair. But as I'm a novice, it may be improved
    by more experienced designers.\r\n\r\nTo proceed all substitutions, the font needs
    30 additional glyphs. And the principle behind all these substitution could be
    used in other similar procedures.\r\n\r\nFirstly, you need a class which brings
    together all numeric figures in the font:\r\n\r\n<code>@NUMBERS=[@ONE @TWO @THREE
    @FOUR @FIVE @SIX @SEVEN @EIGHT @NINE @ZERO];</code>\r\n\r\nThen, you create a
    Stylistic Set with four lookups of substitutions, ordened this way: thousands,
    hundreds, sets fo ten and units:\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss09 {\r\nlookup <strong>THOUSANDS</strong>
    {\r\n\tsub one' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by M.sc;\r\n  \tsub two' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS
    @NUMBERS by twothousand.rm;\r\n  \tsub three' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by threethousand.rm;\r\n
    \ \tsub four' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by fourthousand.rm;\r\n  \tsub five'
    @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by fivethousand.rm;\r\n  \tsub six' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS
    @NUMBERS by sixthousand.rm;\r\n  \tsub seven' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by seventhousand.rm;\r\n
    \ \tsub eight' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by eightthousand.rm;\r\n  \tsub nine'
    @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by ninethousand.rm;\r\n  } THOUSANDS;\r\n\tlookup <strong>HUNDREDS</strong>
    {\r\n   \tignore substitute @NUMBERS' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS @NUMBERS;\r\n  \tsub one'
    @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by C.sc;\r\n  \tsub two' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by twohundred.rm;\r\n
    \ \tsub three' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by threehundred.rm;\r\n  \tsub four' @NUMBERS
    @NUMBERS by fourhundred.rm;\r\n  \tsub five' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by D.sc;\r\n  \tsub
    six' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by sixhundred.rm;\r\n  \tsub seven' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by
    sevenhundred.rm;\r\n  \tsub eight' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by eighthundred.rm;\r\n  \tsub
    nine' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS by ninehundred.rm;\r\n  } HUNDREDS;\r\n  \tlookup <strong>TENS</strong>
    {\r\n  \tignore substitute @NUMBERS' @NUMBERS @NUMBERS;\r\n  \tsub one' @NUMBERS
    by X.sc;\r\n  \tsub two' @NUMBERS by twoten.rm;\r\n  \tsub three' @NUMBERS by
    threeten.rm;\r\n  \tsub four' @NUMBERS by fourten.rm;\r\n  \tsub five' @NUMBERS
    by L.sc;\r\n  \tsub six' @NUMBERS by sixten.rm;\r\n  \tsub seven' @NUMBERS by
    seventen.rm;\r\n  \tsub eight' @NUMBERS by eightten.rm;\r\n  \tsub nine' @NUMBERS
    by nineten.rm;\r\n  } TENS;\r\n\tlookup <strong>UNITS</strong> {\r\n\tignore substitute
    @NUMBERS' @NUMBERS;\r\n  \tsub one' by I.sc;\r\n  \tsub two' by two.rm;\r\n  \tsub
    three' by three.rm;\r\n  \tsub four' by four.rm;\r\n  \tsub five' by V.sc;\r\n
    \ \tsub six' by six.rm;\r\n  \tsub seven' by seven.rm;\r\n  \tsub eight' by eight.rm;\r\n
    \ \tsub nine' by nine.rm;\r\n  } UNITS;\r\n\tlookup <strong>ZEROS</strong> {\r\n\t
    \ sub zero' by zero.rm;\r\n\t} ZEROS;\r\n} ss09;</code>\r\n\r\nNote the last lookup
    is a trick: to remove the zeros I applied a general substitution to a glyph zamed
    zero.rm. This glyph is empty and has zero width. So, all the zeros are hidden.\r\n\r\nIt's
    running OK in the tests I made."
  created: '2010-02-16 03:39:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "A PDF with code and comments is available here:\r\nhttp://if.pro.br/RomanNumerals.pdf\r\n\r\nA
    font for test, based on FreeFontPro, is here:\r\nhttp://if.pro.br/FreeRoman.otf\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 05:08:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "The serif project I did mention could be previewd in the Critique section:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/67787"
  created: '2010-02-25 01:58:51'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@riccard0 and @agisaak \r\nYou are both right in saying this *should* be
    managed through the software. [I'm not aware that it is currently available] Please
    write to Adobe and request it!\r\nUntil that time, I am pretty hyped by this solution.\r\n\r\n@Freiberger.
    I got back on this today. Perhaps I can push this on a little further?\r\n\r\nI
    notice that the code in your pdf and the code in the Font are handled slightly
    differently. Both will work I believe.\r\n\r\nKeeping close to what was used in
    the font and therefore relying on the @ordn1 rather than @numbers I did the following
    - but updated the naming of the glyphs to reflect the fact that I see this code
    for the capitalised versions of the Roman Numerals.\r\nAlso because there are
    existing names and unicodes for some of the Roman Numerals \u2013 I am using these.
    \r\n\r\nThough using small caps letters x.sc is an elegant shortcut, I have decided
    to have actual numbers used. Traditionally Roman numerals are not letters but
    are their own expression, I am creating new glyphs for the M, C, L and D.\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n\r\nfeature
    ss09 { # Stylistic Set 9\r\n # Latin\r\n # Advanced Roman Numerals Converter \r\n
    # 1-9999\r\n \r\nlookup THOUSANDS {\r\n    sub one' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by Onethousandroman;\r\n
    \   sub two' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by Twothousandroman;\r\n    sub three' @ordn1
    @ordn1 @ordn1 by Threethousandroman;\r\n    sub four' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by
    Fourthousandroman;\r\n    sub five' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by Fivethousandroman;\r\n
    \   sub six' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by Sixthousandroman;\r\n    sub seven' @ordn1
    @ordn1 @ordn1 by Seventhousandroman;\r\n    sub eight' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by
    Eightthousandroman;\r\n    sub nine' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1 by Ninethousandroman;\r\n}
    THOUSANDS;\r\nlookup HUNDREDS {\r\n    ignore sub @ordn1' @ordn1 @ordn1 @ordn1;\r\n
    \   sub one' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Onehundredroman;\r\n    sub two' @ordn1 @ordn1 by
    Twohundredroman;\r\n    sub three' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Threehundredroman;\r\n    sub
    four' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Fourhundredroman;\r\n    sub five' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Fivehundredroman;\r\n
    \   sub six' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Sixhundredroman;\r\n    sub seven' @ordn1 @ordn1
    by Sevenhundredroman;\r\n    sub eight' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Eighthundredroman;\r\n
    \   sub nine' @ordn1 @ordn1 by Ninehundredroman;\r\n} HUNDREDS;\r\nlookup TENS
    {\r\n    ignore sub @ordn1' @ordn1 @ordn1;\r\n    sub one' @ordn1 by Tenroman;\r\n
    \   sub two' @ordn1 by Twentyroman;\r\n    sub three' @ordn1 by Thirtyroman;\r\n
    \   sub four' @ordn1 by Fourtyroman;\r\n    sub five' @ordn1 by Fiftyroman;\r\n
    \   sub six' @ordn1 by Sixtyroman;\r\n    sub seven' @ordn1 by Seventyroman;\r\n
    \   sub eight' @ordn1 by Eightyroman;\r\n    sub nine' @ordn1 by Nintyroman;\r\n}
    TENS;\r\nlookup UNITS {\r\n    ignore sub @ordn1' @ordn1;\r\n    sub one' by Oneroman;\r\n
    \   sub two' by Tworoman;\r\n    sub three' by Threeroman;\r\n    sub four' by
    Fourroman;\r\n    sub five' by Fiveroman;\r\n    sub six' by Sixroman;\r\n    sub
    seven' by Sevenroman;\r\n    sub eight' by Eightroman;\r\n    sub nine' by Nineroman;\r\n}
    UNITS;\r\nlookup ZEROS {\r\n    sub zero' by zeroroman;\r\n} ZEROS;\r\n} ss09;\r\n\r\n</code>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-24 17:52:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-25 15:20:59'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nwhen I built up this solution I was unaware about Unicode
    glyphs to Roman Numerals. Of course, I think they must be used and also determines
    the name format to other glyphs created to Romans.\r\n\r\nI'll remain to small
    caps instead of creating new glyphs to I, V, X, L, C, D and M. My choice is because
    the font has 1,600 glyphs now (and counting!), even without Greek and Cyrillic
    support. So I'm trying to keep it less huge.\r\n\r\nAs long as I can see, our
    code is the same. The difference resides on the class you used and the glyph naming
    criteria, no?\r\n\r\nThis Roman Numerals question gave me some other ideas \u2013
    as to simulate ink variations found in old metal type prints. Probably I'll never
    use them (as the 'palimpsest project' is the only font I plan to create) but OT
    possibilities are great."
  created: '2010-03-25 23:16:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A roman font should have no space character...or replace it with a centered
    period.
  created: '2010-03-25 23:33:56'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Sorry Nick, but I did not understand. No space character? Are you referring
    to Classic Latin, when word separation was made with centered periods and diamonds?
  created: '2010-03-26 00:34:09'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "@Freierger Again thanks for working on this. I have now dropped this in one
    of my fonts, which also has small roman ligatures from i to xvi (i.e to cover
    the first signature in a book). \r\n\r\nRoman and Unicode: Check: <a href=\"http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/\">Fileformat
    Unicode Page</a>\r\n\r\nInk effect: interesting challenge!\r\nRandomised characters
    are talked about elsewhere on this board in a couple of places. @Nick might know?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-26 01:33:01'
date: '2010-02-12 21:54:34'
node_type: forum
title: 'Contextual Alternates: limit to massive use'

---
