---
author:
  name: russellm
  picture: 111614
body: "I recently read the EULA for a font  where the designer \"absolutoely\" forbade
  it's  use in a number of things we'd all tend to agree are bad. It seems like a
  well intentioned, but pointless inclusion, and well, a little beyond the scope of
  a type designer's job.  could a designer seriously contemplate taking any kind of
  action against some one who used his or her fonts to express thoughts, he or she
  disagrees with?\r\n\r\n "
comments:
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Please tell us what foundry so we can avoid it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-13 06:28:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here's one... \r\n\r\n\"The fonts on this site are freeware and can be used
    as they are in any context without permission from Apostrophic Laboratories, except
    to produce material that is racist, criminal and/or illegal in nature.\" via...
    http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Desyrel   "
  created: '2010-02-13 07:09:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Coming from Apostrophic Labs, a prohibition against producing illegal material
    is rather amusing. The Labs' founder, \"Apostrophe,\" was once the world's most
    famous font pirate.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-13 07:29:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: As I recall the original Labs site was shut down by the owners because some
    of its freeware fonts were put on one of those commercial 1000 fonts for $10 CDs,
    closing a somewhat odd chapter in the history of fonts.
  created: '2010-02-13 07:44:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "I suppose it depends on how subjective the terms are and if they could hold
    up under a legal microscope. Theoretically the licensor can put whatever restrictions
    they want in the EULA and, if it's written well, can hold the licensee accountable
    once they've agreed to those terms. Whether or not that is a practical reality
    is another story.\r\n\r\nI once had a conversation with the cartoonist <a href=http://www.fantagraphics.com/index.php?page=shop.browse&category_id=211&option=com_virtuemart&Itemid=62&vmcchk=1&Itemid=62>Chris
    Ware</a> and I asked if he had ever considered translating any of his wonderful
    lettering styles in to typefaces. He said he came very close to doing so once,
    but ultimately decided against it because he didn't want to see his work used
    for cigarette ads or other things that he didn't agree with. He certainly could
    have attempted to thwart such usage in the license, but I'm sure he realized,
    from a practical standpoint, it can be tricky to enforce restrictions beyond a
    certain point.\r\n\r\nI've always been curious if there have ever been any licenses
    which attempted to restrict how the type was set to ensure it was used as intended
    \u2013 restrictions of size, spacing, capitalization, media, colorization, etc\u2026
    like a legally instituted style guide."
  created: '2010-02-13 10:34:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ russellm\r\n\r\nIn my opinion those restrictions are more useful than strictly
    forbidding embedding. Well, design is not the same as art, but in case of art
    the artist should have the right to forbid the misuse of his pieces of art, because
    it is not necessarily recognizable for the public anymore, if the piece of art
    is shown in a context, that is in contradiction to the intention of the piece
    of art.\r\n\r\nI assume, that, when the idea of EULA for digital products was
    born, the primary intention was money, but I can say for material pieces of art,
    sculptures for example, that the artist also can declare a license restriction
    with regard to the context, in which the piece of art is exhibited. In other words
    the artist could say: When you \u201Cbuy\u201D this sculpture, you are allowed
    to permanently possess it (if I don\u2019t need it for an exhibition), but I remain
    the owner. In this case the fact, that sculptures (those ones, that are founded
    [in bronze for example]) are limited to a certain number of pieces, becomes a
    special meaning.\r\n\r\nAs more the typeface is a piece of art, as more such a
    license restriction can become useful. In case of a body text typeface it would
    be absurd, because the function \u201Ccontent transporter\u201D dominates the
    meaning of the typeface (Otherwise it would be not a good body text typeface.).\r\n\r\nLol,
    in case of DTL I think they try to materialize their digital typefaces with the
    help of the price. The price makes the fonts to unicums."
  created: '2010-02-13 12:19:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Abcpapercup_image01_5644.jpeg]\r\nSome
    foundries stipulate that a special licence is required when fonts are used in
    goods for sale."
  created: '2010-02-13 16:00:26'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Well, Paul I forget to foundry,  and my purpose isn't to expose what I perceived
    to be a well intended gesture to critical comments here so I would name them in
    any event. I'm sure <cite>you </cite>would never use a font in any of the bad
    ways their EULA forbids any how. :o)\r\n\r\nThey can forbid the use of their fonts
    for any thing that promotes the use of white bread, and edible oil products for
    all I care, it just seems to me that if you want your EULA to be taken seriously,
    you are better off sticking to restrictions that at least sound like they would
    have a realistic chance of being taken seriously. Such a clause dilutes the purpose
    of the document, I think."
  created: '2010-02-13 17:35:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "My EULA contains a clause requiring the purchase of a \u201Cspecial license\u201D
    for use in any political or religious materials. I did this mostly so I can refuse
    to sell license to really flagrant arseholes."
  created: '2010-02-13 18:16:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: As hard as it is to police normal EULA issues, I can't imagine this kind of
    thing having any teeth. I would just  take it as someone making a philosophical
    statement in albeit a small voice. I would not criticize their attempt, though.
    I see it as a harmless voicing of their opinion. I would never boycott them either,
    unless they were supporting Nazis or something else I did not condone.
  created: '2010-02-13 18:39:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ James Puckett\r\n\r\n<cite>My EULA contains a clause requiring the purchase
    of a \u201Cspecial license\u201D for use in any political or religious materials.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    it is only a question of money? 100 Dollars more for the catholic church. 10 Dollars
    more for scientology. And 5 Dollars more for the Charles Manson sect.\r\n\r\nIf
    not, I like your EULA."
  created: '2010-02-13 18:51:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So it is only a question of money?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes and no. Mostly
    I just want to keep my fonts away from hate groups and cults like Focus on the
    Family, LDS, the moonies, and the Knights of Columbus. I specifically wrote that
    clause because of the bigotry coming out of LDS in recent years. The way I see
    it, when even the normally warm-and-fuzzy Mormons start acting like shits it\u2019s
    time for sensible people to start building walls around them.\r\n\r\nBut even
    if I did not find a religious or political use offensive I would still charge
    them more than corporate licensees because both have absurd amounts of money to
    throw around and a willingness to spend wildly, even recklessly. "
  created: '2010-02-13 20:41:34'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: "@Arno Enslin\r\n\"Well, design is not the same as art\"\r\n\r\nOne could
    say that design is not an art, but design as a business is art unto itself."
  created: '2010-02-13 22:42:49'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ xo\r\n\r\nTrue. And if art becomes a market-oriented business, it is only
    art unto itself. Art is a dictatorship in a sort. Naturally an artist can accept
    an order, but if he has a soul, he cannot bend it. If he can bend it, he is not
    an artist, but a whore. Except he clearly says, that he is a designer."
  created: '2010-02-13 23:22:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">it\u2019s time for sensible people to start building walls around them.\r\n\r\nI
    would be inclined to run this policy by your attorney. Only takes someone with
    time on their hands to take offence and claim discrimination. Like this chap...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nbcnewyork.com/news/weird/Jedi-Claims-Discrimination-at-Grocery-Store-60020902.html"
  created: '2010-02-14 02:36:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Tell young Skywalker to shop at Safeway :-)
  created: '2010-02-14 02:50:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'When Lord Vader was picking a typeface he skipped James fonts after reading
    the EULA... "the clause is strong in this one" '
  created: '2010-02-14 02:53:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You are allowed to limit who uses your intellectual property.\r\n\r\nMy EULA
    has a similar clause as James Puckett describes. I may have given him the idea
    when I was discussing this in class this past semester."
  created: '2010-02-14 03:01:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You are allowed to limit who uses your intellectual property.\r\n\r\nFair
    enough, but a better solution might be to offer discounts to the \"other side\"
    - they need font help!\r\n\r\nhttp://i218.photobucket.com/albums/cc2/shadowphoenix143/Prop%208%20protest%20Seattle%20Wa/Prop8protestNov15thSeattleWa023.jpg
    \ \r\n\r\nhttp://i2.crtcdn.net/images/asset/895/031/26/US1g3VT4_400x300.jpg\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-14 03:14:31'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: 'Basic: if effect,, if not; not basic. Yes, stupid. '
  created: '2010-02-14 03:23:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The idea of \u2018moral\u2019 clauses in EULAs is an interesting one, although
    it seems to me that what we're really talking about is exclusionary clauses targeting
    people or groups of people with particular ideas or involved in particular activities,
    and such clauses may or may not be defined in terms of morality. I might decide
    that my fonts are not to be used to promote scrapbooking, but not because I consider
    scrapbooking immoral. People find it easy to dress their prejudices up as morality,
    but I figure its easiest to simply avoid the moral debate in intellectual property
    licensing and simply be as bloody-minded as one is willing to be seen to be (and
    is willing to enforce). Alternatively, just put the stuff out there and if it
    ends up being used in a way of which you disapprove, use that occasion as an opportunity
    to speak out.\r\n\r\nMy moral code is summarised by the statement \u2018Don\u2019t
    be an arsehole\u2019 -- or as Christ more politely put it, \u2018Do unto others
    as you would have them do unto you\u2019 --, but I'm not sure how to frame that
    in terms of a EULA.\r\n\r\nJames: <em>Mostly I just want to keep my fonts away
    from hate groups and cults like Focus on the Family, LDS, the moonies, and the
    Knights of Columbus. I specifically wrote that clause because of the bigotry coming
    out of LDS in recent years. The way I see it, when even the normally warm-and-fuzzy
    Mormons start acting like shits it\u2019s time for sensible people to start building
    walls around them.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is sad, and also ironic, because if you talk
    to e.g. many Christians about how they view secular culture, you'll get a similar
    response: they are frightened and feel that walls need to be built to protect
    the values that they see under threat. The result is an acutely bitter divide
    based on mutual fear and distrust, which finds expression in both political and
    cultural terms. I am reminded of the frequent exhortation of John Paul II, \u2018Be
    not afraid!\u2019 -- not because there is nothing to be frightened of but because
    he knew, having lived through the Nazi occupation and communist repression in
    Poland, that people often do terrible things when they feel threatened.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the things that I love most about type and typography -- at least text typography
    -- is its intrinsic connection with dialogue, with the exchange of ideas. One
    of the reasons I am less interested in display typography is that it seems more
    like shouting than conversation. The trouble with building walls, defensive though
    they may be, is that you end up with either the silence of separate solitudes
    or people shouting at each other over the ramparts. The opportunities for conversation
    are greatly diminished and, hence, so are the opportunities for typography to
    do what it does, i.e. articulate that conversation in written form.\r\n\r\nThere
    are certainly things I hope not to see my typefaces used to promote -- things
    ranging from tacky and tasteless to moral evil --, but I don't seek to prevent
    such use."
  created: '2010-02-14 03:54:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well put, John. '
  created: '2010-02-14 04:01:22'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "John-\r\nI agree with you. "
  created: '2010-02-14 04:07:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> My EULA contains a clause requiring the purchase of a \u201Cspecial license\u201D
    \r\n> for use in any  political or religious materials...\r\n\r\nand what about
    the tobacco industry?  gun/firearms industry?  "
  created: '2010-02-14 04:12:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Perfect John. If you want tolerance, be it.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-14 04:32:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "John, to come back to your example of John Paul II, well, he had faith in
    the good of humanity. Lately I rarely do\u2014especially at the intersection of
    politics and religion.\r\n\r\n<cite>and what about the tobacco industry? gun/firearms
    industry?</cite>\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t say that I find either one horrible enough
    to want nothing to do with. When evil is that crass it really doesn\u2019t bother
    me. But when religion and government start dragging each other down I just don\u2019t
    want to be involved. "
  created: '2010-02-14 06:09:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If you want tolerance, be it.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s a cute sentiment,
    but it doesn\u2019t work when the moral compass of the other side is guides them
    to treat other people as subhuman. Ghandi succeeded at turning the other cheek
    because the British came to find the idea of pummeling defenseless Indians repugnant.
    When the Buddhists in Burma tried it they got their brains dashed out. Tolerance
    has limits. "
  created: '2010-02-14 06:21:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>\"So it is only a question of money?\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes and
    no. Mostly I just want to keep my fonts away from hate groups and cults . . .
    </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>But even if I did not find a religious or political use offensive
    I would still charge them more than corporate licensees because both have absurd
    amounts of money to throw around and a willingness to spend wildly, even recklessly.</cite>\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nSeems to me your trying to have it both ways. That usually doesn't
    work in a moral context."
  created: '2010-02-14 12:40:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "From our EULA:\r\n<cite> Use of Terminal Design Font Software in the following
    circumstances and/or applications is NOT permitted without first obtaining express
    written permission and, if applicable, the appropriate licensing upgrade. In order
    to obtain a license upgrade, you must contact Terminal Design at (email address
    redacted) for more information.  If you are unsure whether your use of the Font
    Software is specifically permitted under this Agreement, contact Terminal Design:\r\n\r\n<cite>a)
    ALPHABET OR LETTERFORM- RELATED PRODUCTS FOR RESALE;\r\nb) BROADCAST or FILM;\r\nc)
    ELECTRONIC DEVICE OR GAME EMBEDDING;\r\nd) SOFTWARE EMBEDDING; and\r\ne) RELIGIOUS
    OR POLITICAL CAMPAIGN USES.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't see it as a question of morality
    just one of commerce. I'm just trying to protect my IP, get paid, and have some
    control as to where it appears.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-14 13:50:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'It''s all commercial art. Commercial art, for the most part, is to used to
    sell. If I make something that is used successfully to sell something, I''d consider
    that a success. Whether it was used to sell cigarettes or puppies seems irrelevant.
    IMHO, of course. '
  created: '2010-02-14 14:55:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I understand all about commercial art. I used to do the lettering for the
    Joe Camel ads. Like I said before, I just want to have some, just some control
    over how my work gets used.
  created: '2010-02-14 15:19:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Early in my career I worked at a NYC type shop that had close ties to a fringe
    political movement. Almost everyone in the shop was a committed member of the
    cause, except me. Part of my job was to design their political publications. Some
    of those designs are still being used all these years later. That experience gave
    me a little taste of fringe movements and their particular brand of insanity.\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, I only want to have some control over how my work gets used."
  created: '2010-02-14 15:24:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Seems to me your trying to have it both ways. That usually doesn't
    work in a moral context.</cite>\r\n\r\nHaving it both ways allows me to leave
    the door open to the vast majority of religious and political uses that are entirely
    benign. As I noted above, what really made me go this route was seeing Mormons,
    who have a deep cultural memory of the dangers of both being victims and perpetrators
    of discrimination, promoting discriminatory laws. But that is an extreme and not
    the general behavior of people with religious and political inclinations. So rather
    than just slam a door in their face, I closed the door gently and left a nice
    big knocker on it for anyone interested in pleasant discourse. \r\n\r\nLike James
    Montalbano, I only want to have some control over how my work gets used."
  created: '2010-02-14 16:14:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know that for software, moral clauses in EULAs are sometimes unenforceable.
    Thus, a clause like \"This spreadsheet may not be used in the design of nuclear
    weapons systems\" is something one isn't going to be able to enforce against the
    Chinese government.\r\n\r\nA typeface is a somewhat different matter, since when
    you use a typeface in printed matter, you are, in a way, identifying the designer
    of the typeface with that matter. Or at least it can seem like that. But I can
    also see how liberal use of such clauses may be an impetus for the United States,
    at least, to continue hesitating on protecting typeface designs."
  created: '2010-02-15 04:22:22'
- author:
    name: xo
    picture: 119170
  body: I wonder if a morals clause could be used by popular typographers to put certain
    political groups at a disadvantage in terms of font choice. Now that'd make for
    one hell of a social experiment.
  created: '2010-02-16 06:22:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Interesting. However, extreme right-wing groups that preach racial hatred
    probably <em>should</em> stick to Caslon Old Style. Faces like Univers and Optima
    are clearly for liberals... and even Times Roman doubtless has Fabian Socialism
    in its pedigree somewhere.\r\n\r\nStill, keeping their grubby paws off of Centaur
    and Cloister Old Style and the like might be worth trying."
  created: '2010-02-16 10:10:04'
- author:
    name: Ehague
    picture: 112252
  body: 'I don''t like to imagine a future in which in order to advocate certain practices
    and ideologies we can only use fonts designed by individuals who don''t find them
    morally abhorrent. I think in such a world people will eventually get sick or
    reading EULAs and just play it safe by using Gill Sans and Perpetua for everything.
    : )'
  created: '2010-02-16 13:50:58'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "I don't see a problem with trying to protect your work against being used
    by undesirable groups, organizations, etc.\r\n\r\nConsider the swastika, originally
    not a symbol of evil but now synonymous with the Nazis in most parts of the world
    to the point that it's illegal to be publicly displayed in Germany. Imagine if
    your font is used by some extreme group and ends up becoming synonymous with them
    to the point that no one else would want to use it? A font obviously isn't as
    distinct as a \"logo\" like the swastika, and it's probably highly unlikely that
    extremist groups could become so prominent that it'd render a font they use undesirable
    to others, but I can't blame those wanting to protect their work."
  created: '2010-02-16 15:57:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "On the flip side imagine the PR possibilities. Picture the headlines\u2026
    \"Swastika's designer cries foul on Nazi logo use - 3rd Reich out of touch\" -
    or more realistically \"McCain's font choice, a bad one claims font's designer
    Zapf\" "
  created: '2010-02-16 16:53:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I certainly can't knock someone from not wanting their creation used by groups
    they disagree with. \r\n\r\nFrom a general consumer perspective, however, I find
    detailed EULAs to be annoying. Having to know which fonts I can use in each particular
    case can become daunting if each and every font creator has their own personal
    agenda they want to put in the EULA. I can use this font for Methodists, but not
    for Mormons. This one for republicans but not democrats. This one for red heads
    but not brunettes.\r\n\r\nThat can get messy."
  created: '2010-02-16 17:17:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '"Vodka martini, shaken, not stirred"'
  created: '2010-02-16 17:42:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> just play it safe by using Gill Sans and Perpetua for everything.\r\n\r\nAnd
    here I thought they'd play it safe by using Franklin Gothic and Century Expanded
    for everything."
  created: '2010-02-16 19:53:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I don't know about Gill Sans, if we're talking morality clauses :o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 20:02:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "quadibloc: <em>However, extreme right-wing groups that preach racial hatred
    probably should stick to Caslon Old Style. Faces like Univers and Optima are clearly
    for liberals... and even Times Roman doubtless has Fabian Socialism in its pedigree
    somewhere.</em>\r\n\r\nMany, many years ago, back when the comp.fonts newsgroup
    was a reasonable place to have a discussion about typography, I received a phone
    call from a man with a southern US accent who has stumbled across something I
    had written there and was seeking advice on typography for a book he was self-publishing.
    He was using Times New Roman and, since he knew very little about typography,
    wanted to check that this was an appropriate choice. What kind of book is it?
    I inquired, thinking that I might be able to suggest something more distinctive
    and attractive than Times. \u2018It's about politics,\u2019 he explained, \u2018My
    name is David Duke.\u2019\r\n\r\nTimes New Roman, I assured him, would do just
    fine."
  created: '2010-02-16 20:46:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u2018My name is David Duke.\u2019\r\n\r\nYIKES!"
  created: '2010-02-16 20:59:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I would have denied the existence of Times New Roman. Perhaps suggesting Wingdings
    as a viable alternative
  created: '2010-02-17 00:52:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Is it even legal in the US to refuse to sell goods to a particular group
    of people on the basis of political beliefs or religion? '
  created: '2010-02-17 01:15:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Font software is not a good or service that is sold, but Intellectual property
    that is licensed. And the IP holder can manage and restrict it anyway they like.
    How many songs have been removed from some political party's campaign because
    the proper rights were not obtained?
  created: '2010-02-17 02:05:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is it even legal in the US to refuse to sell goods to a particular
    group of people on the basis of political beliefs or religion?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    do not sell goods. I license type for use as I see fit, and when I do I am\u2014in
    a very limited way\u2014taking part in the creation of whatever is created using
    my fonts. Thus, as a printer has the right to refuse to print religious materials
    that he finds offensive, say, <em>The Satanic Bible</em>, I believe that I have
    a right to refuse to license my type for a printing of <em>The Satanic Bible</em>."
  created: '2010-02-17 02:35:49'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "At Nick:\r\n\r\n>> 'Some foundries stipulate that a special licence is required
    when fonts are used in goods for sale'.\r\n\r\nI am thinking about including a
    something like that in my EULA. Can you point out some examples?\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 08:15:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James M., I believe that what happened is that either the artist: a. asked
    the candidate not to use the song because they were against them--a courtesy thing,
    not law, or b. the candidate hadn't paid for the song, or paid for public broadcast.
    I don't think the issue was whether the campaigns had the right to buy the song,
    if it was for public sale. \r\n\r\nJames P., I don't see how selling a software
    license gives you more right to restrict than if it's another kind of good. We
    are not talking about a personal contract, but something for sale publicly, and
    in your case through third parties. It may be that James M.'s work has a different
    status because only he sells it. \r\n\r\nI don't know the answer to my question,
    but your two responses I don't think resolve it.\r\n\r\nEdit: Doing a little internet
    searching, I found that discrimination on the basis of religion, which James P.
    wants to do, in the US is prohibited in the case of housing, but maybe not in
    some other areas. \r\n\r\nI ran across this book [[http://www.amazon.com/Right-Discriminate-Scouts-America-Association/dp/030012127X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1266418259&sr=8-1|A
    Right to Discriminate?]] which discusses the case in which the Supreme Court of
    the US permitted the Boy Scouts, a private organization, to discriminate against
    those who are homosexual. \r\n\r\nThat case would seem to support your right to
    discriminate, at least if you only sell the software yourself. If it's a public
    shop, I'm not sure. \r\n\r\nI hope that the recent source of your \"right\" to
    discriminate against those whose religious beliefs you find objectionable gives
    you pause.   "
  created: '2010-02-17 15:10:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@James, Bill: \r\n\r\nMusic may not provide the best analogy. \r\n\r\nThere
    are several sections in the U.S. copyright code mandating compulsory or statutory
    licensing in a variety of situations (radio transmission, for instance), which
    effectively limit the exclusive rights of the copyright holder in these specific
    instances, unique to music.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t have time to search the code for
    the relevant sections to see if they explicitly cover the kind of religious or
    political situations under discussion."
  created: '2010-02-17 15:30:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: William, would you consider it inappropriate discrimination for a graphic
    designer to refuse to do produce a pamphlet that he found offensive?
  created: '2010-02-17 16:07:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: How about a massage therapist refusing service to someone because they reeked
    and badly needed a bath?
  created: '2010-02-17 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, would you consider it inappropriate discrimination for a graphic
    designer to refuse to do produce a pamphlet that he found offensive?\r\n\r\nNo,
    that's a matter of an individual contract for services. Whom you decide to contract
    with personally for your services is your business. It becomes different when
    you are selling something retail. There you are saying: \"I will sell to anyone,
    except those with these religious beliefs.\" That's where it becomes a problem,
    at least in my eyes. \r\n\r\nChris, that's a case where the business is affected
    by the decision to serve or not, like the bartender's right to deny a drunk customer
    another drink. Discrimination against individuals on the basis of their religious
    identity is different. That's discrimination purely on the basis of belief, not
    action, and that's problematic.  "
  created: '2010-02-17 16:29:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>There you are saying: \"I will sell to anyone, except those with these
    religious beliefs.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBut that is <em>not</em> what I am saying.
    People with religious beliefs are welcome to license my fonts\u2014they just need
    to buy a special license to use the fonts in religious or political materials.
    And I reserve the right to refuse to sell them a license for particular materials\u2014not
    on the basis of the potential licensee being a religious person, but because I
    do not want my work associated with a particularly offensive works. I\u2019m not
    telling people they can\u2019t sit down at my lunch counter and eat a sandwich\u2014just
    that if they plan to do so, they have to take off their hats and act civilized. "
  created: '2010-02-17 16:32:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bill, what if their religion prohibits bathing?
  created: '2010-02-17 16:45:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Ramiro, House Industries.
  created: '2010-02-17 16:51:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">to buy a special license to use the fonts in religious or political materials.\r\n\r\nYou've
    got a point that there's a difference, but it still seems to me that this is problematic
    discrimination. You said that the reason for the clause is so you can refuse to
    give a license to print anything by Mormons. I wouldn't want to be in the position
    of deciding what is permissible and impermissible speech. I admit I'll be upset
    if the Klan uses Williams Caslon, but if hundreds of thousands of other people
    are using it as well, I'll let it pass :) \r\n\r\n>Bill, what if their religion
    prohibits bathing?\r\n\r\nThe general guideline is that freedom of opinion should
    be absolute. Actions are a different matter. Thus if the burka interferes with
    public safety in Europe or the US, the government has the right to prohibit it.
    So for your case of the stinking massage client, the therapist can exclude them
    for stinking, not for their beliefs. \r\n\r\nBy the way, in Mali the Dogon people
    believe that washing takes away magic, and the chief of the Dogon is said to have
    a trained snake to lick him clean every month\u2014possibly the coolest thing
    ever.  "
  created: '2010-02-17 17:49:27'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "\"By the way, in Mali the Dogon people believe that washing takes away magic,
    and the chief of the Dogon is said to have a trained snake to lick him clean every
    month\u2014possibly the coolest thing ever.\"\r\n\r\nUnless you're the snake."
  created: '2010-02-17 18:00:33'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>You said that the reason for the clause is so you can refuse to give
    a license to print anything by Mormons.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo I did not. I said that
    actions taken by Mormons led me to write a clause that allows me to \u201C\u2026refuse
    to sell license to really flagrant arseholes.\u201D Do I really need to add qualifiers
    to make it clear that I am not lumping all Mormons into that category? And as
    I noted above the whole point of having a special license option rather than just
    prohibiting religious and political use is to allow me to sell the fonts for the
    majority of uses that are benign.\r\n\r\nI am also not determining what is permissible
    and impermissible speech. I\u2019m not stopping anyone from speaking out. I\u2019m
    just reserving the option of not involving myself in speech that I do not want
    to be a part of."
  created: '2010-02-17 18:15:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...So for your case of the stinking massage client, the therapist can exclude
    them for stinking, not for their beliefs.\"\r\n\r\nBill, that is my point. If
    a Massage therapist refuses service for stinking, the unserved (and unwashed)
    can still sue and say the person was cloaking their refusal to serve them to avoid
    prosecution. You never know what a jury might decide. I agree that people should
    be able to refuse service on grounds of health, safety, and hygiene issues but
    fear our litigious society might overact on the side of religion."
  created: '2010-02-17 18:26:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m just reserving the option of not involving myself in speech that
    I do not want to be a part of.\r\n\r\nI really sympathize with your desire not
    to be associated with stuff that is odious. \r\n\r\nBut is it appropriate for
    a type designer to refuse to have his letters used to say something he finds repugnant?
    \r\n\r\nI don't like \"slippery slope\" arguments generally, but I really don't
    see here how to draw a line well, except to publicly renounce an organization
    that you find odious, and ask them not to use your type.\r\n\r\nI guess I just
    don't see law as the best option here.  \r\n\r\nJames M's shop, as he is the sole
    seller, seems to me to be in a different situation. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-17 18:37:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I wouldn't want to be in the position of deciding what is permissible
    and impermissible speech.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI think I agree. Plus, it's impossible.\r\n\r\nWorking
    on custom projects for clients potentially puts a designer in a good position
    to be picky about who to work for, and what to make &ndash; with the latter, especially
    so when it's about making <em>finished products,</em> not <em>tools</em>. But
    fonts released for retail\u2026 \r\n\r\nI've been trying in vain to find a quote
    again that I read on some tech blog recently, a slightly more eloquent version
    of this obvious truth: It's impossible to design technology that only does good
    things. Tools can be used for good and evil (or whatever the tool's designer <em>thinks
    of as</em> good or evil). Fuel can be used to drive a car or a tank. Paper can
    hold a love letter or a declaration of war. And so can fonts.\r\n\r\nI think trying
    to fight that fact or to control it is an illusion, if perhaps a comfortable/reassuring
    one."
  created: '2010-02-17 18:53:06'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I just wanted to wrap this up by letting everyone know that based on feedback
    in this thread and elsewhere, I\u2019m stripping those provisions from the EULA."
  created: '2010-02-24 15:31:55'
date: '2010-02-13 06:17:53'
node_type: forum
title: morals clause in EULA ?

---
