---
author:
  name: zrisso
body: "I'm currently designing the interior to a high fantasy novel set in a distant
  past, and one of my friends suggested 11 pt Adobe Jenson. I love the font for its
  color and the presence it commands on a page with proper, large margins. \r\n\r\nI'd
  like some opinions on the font, and some alternatives other than the seemingly-standard
  Adobe Caslon. Are there other similarly dark fonts that you like for book text?\r\n\r\nI'd
  appreciate the help!"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, a fair number of people use Adobe Jenson for book text. I don't like
    it, which is an obvious bias.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, Adobe Caslon is not \"standard\"
    amongst designers my age. I suppose this is because we remember metal Caslon,
    with all the quirks that came with the different sizes. AC seems neutered.\r\n\r\nWhich
    brings up the matter of audience, always an important issue. All too often, a
    freelance designer is asked to serve two masters. One is the intended reader,
    the other is the client.  The client, who has the final say, often gets in the
    way of the reader. Which brings us back to Adobe Jenson. My problem with Adobe
    Jenson is while the specimen is pretty, 200 pages of it is a bit much. Your mileage
    may vary.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nYou don't say what kind of \"high fantasy.\" Who,
    do you think, the book is aimed at? What do you want to subtly suggest with the
    typeface itself? Falling back on fonts I use, Quadraat comes to mind -- but I
    can think of fantasy where it wouldn't work well. If you rely more on a feeling
    of \"being old,\" audience again is important. For a large number of people, any
    of the 19th or early 20th century types \"feels old.\" Miller might work, though
    a bit pedestrian for some texts -- esp. for an art director, as opposed to a reader.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    the text itself has to sell the story. Typeface surely should not get in the way,
    and at best, should hint -- and only hint. If you can do that while pleasing the
    art director and/or marketing people, you've got a perfect job.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2010-02-14 13:04:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_oneleigh_ot/\">Oneleigh</a>
    is a fantasy face, an historical fiction in its own right (as is Quadraat).\r\nIts
    idiosyncrasies are modeled on those of the classic book faces such as Garamond,
    Bembo and Perpetua.\r\nIMO typographers often overestimate the degree to which
    \"quirks\" get in the way of easy reading. A glyph may appear to be quirky when
    compared to its counterpart in other faces, but that is not a concern if it fits
    comfortably into its own face.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-14 15:19:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>IMO typographers often overestimate the degree to which \"quirks\"
    get in the way of easy reading. A glyph may appear to be quirky when compared
    to its counterpart in other faces, but that is not a concern if it fits comfortably
    into its own face.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, I wasn't thinking so much of a single glyph
    (or two), but the effect of a typeface. For example, I remember reading a Chandleresque
    mystery novel set in Palatino. I found it jarring me all the way through the book.\r\n\r\nTo
    the original poster: saying \"fantasy\" doesn't say enough. Condsider <cite>Lord
    of the Rings.</cite> If I had to pick a typeface to use for a 2010 edition, I'd
    pick Miller & never look back.\r\n\r\nAnother \"fantasy\" candidate would be Trinite
    (but not for <cite>Lord of the Rings.</cite>)"
  created: '2010-02-14 15:48:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "On the subject of color, this is an interesting thread:\r\n\r\nDarker Typefaces
    for Books?\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/51171"
  created: '2010-02-14 16:57:27'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I have to admit that an art history book I'm using for a class (<a href=http://www.amazon.com/Art-History-Critical-Introduction-Methods/dp/0719069599/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1266179661&sr=8-1>Hatt
    and Klonk</a>) is set in Adobe Jenson, and I constantly find it mannered and distracting.
    I wonder if my less type-aware classmates find it problematic, too. Of course,
    this could be a factor of the setting, not just the face ...\r\n\r\nI keep on
    wondering if <a href=http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=FOT0000085>Eason</a>
    would be a more pleasant alternative."
  created: '2010-02-14 20:36:23'
- author:
    name: zrisso
  body: "Thanks for your comments, everyone! \r\n\r\nMiller is looking like a good
    candidate. It has a \"cleaner\" look for the text. while I love Jenson, it <em>can</em>
    be tedious to read long texts in it. \r\n\r\nAny other fonts I should look into?"
  created: '2010-02-14 21:25:52'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Some ideas:\r\n\r\nAdobe Arno Pro\r\nType Together Athelas\r\nStorm Type
    Comenia Text Pro"
  created: '2010-02-14 22:20:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Poliphilus and Bembo would seem like obvious possibilities. Bembo, of course,
    is a fairly standard font on a lot of people's computers, while Poliphilus is
    not nearly so commonplace. Still, if you're going from Jenson to Aldus, then one
    might as well go all the way to the humdrum, and go with Garamond.\r\n\r\nIn the
    opposite direction... Kelmscott and Cloister Old Style are possible, but I think
    you would have to be adventurous to want to have a whole book typeset in something
    like that.\r\n\r\nSo what other interpretations of Jenson are out there? Quite
    a few, IIRC.\r\n\r\nLTC Jenson is much more like Jenson Oldstyle than it is like
    Adobe Jenson. And there's Phinney Jenson, Nicholas Jenson SG, Hightower, even
    Nicholas and Goodchild.\r\n\r\nFor that matter, Centaur is widely available nowadays.\r\n\r\nAh;
    there is also ITC Golden... and Monotype Italian Old Style. So many choices are
    currently available."
  created: '2010-02-14 22:30:10'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Adobe Jenson = Zzzzzz . . . \r\n\r\nLots of other possibilities. \r\n\r\nDolly\r\nDTL
    Documenta (or virtually anything else from DTL)\r\nTEFF Renard\r\nTEFF Lexicon\r\nFeijoa
    (wonderful!)\r\nExpo Serif pro\r\nFF Clifford\r\nPoynter Text Oldstyle\r\nArnhem\r\nPremiera
    OT\r\nMercury\r\nEnvoy (http://www.timrolands.com/Default.aspx) - Click on the
    link and look at the sample to the right.  ;)\r\nComenia Text Pro\r\n\r\nIf you're
    really set on a classical serif, you'd be well-served by Arno Pro. \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-15 00:07:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Condsider Lord of the Rings. If I had to pick a typeface to use for a
    2010 edition, I'd pick Miller & never look back.</em>\r\n\r\nMuch as I love moderns,
    I must say that Miller is soooo wrong for Tolkein or high fantasy.\r\n\r\nTolkein
    was a mediaevalist, not a modernist or classicist.\r\nA Goudy face, e.g. Californian,
    would be perfect, being likewise a work of historical fiction from a similar time
    period (mid 20th Century).\r\nGoudy faces would be good for any \"high fantasy
    set in the distant past\" as that could have been his motto! -- e.g. Kennerley
    or Italian Oldstyle."
  created: '2010-02-15 00:27:14'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Palatino Pro.   ;)\r\n\r\nAnziano\r\nDelicato\r\n\r\nGoodchild?\r\n\r\nKingfisher"
  created: '2010-02-15 00:43:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Much as I love moderns, I must say that Miller is soooo wrong for Tolkein
    or high fantasy.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Tolkein was a mediaevalist, not a modernist
    or classicist.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Lord of the Rings</cite> is not abuot Tolkein's
    professional carrier. It s a story; at it's core, about Hobbits from the Shire.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI am constantly amazed that so many people who know about type(designers)
    or story-telling (editors) know so little about reading and readers.\r\n\r\nGo
    ahead, flame on."
  created: '2010-02-15 02:16:05'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "My Grafton paperback edition of LOTR is set in Times. \r\n\r\nI grew up with
    the Grafton set, and it read beautifully. Go figure. I didn't even notice the
    typeface until now. "
  created: '2010-02-15 02:41:14'
- author:
    name: zrisso
  body: "Haha, I am more confused as to what I should set the text in now than ever.
    You have all given me a lot more to think about. \r\n\r\nThe text of the book
    is very much in the vein of LOTR, so I have that to consider. An while I love
    a lot of the \"old looking\" typefaces, I need to find something that skirts that
    line with emphasis on readability. "
  created: '2010-02-15 03:35:47'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Zach:\r\n\r\nEnvoy \r\n\r\nhttp://www.timrolands.com/Default.aspx\r\n\r\nCalluna\r\n\r\nhttp://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/calluna.html\r\n\r\n(Calluna
    is especially readable.)\r\n\r\nYou're *supposed* to be confused.  ;)   \r\n\r\nIt's
    one of the necessary steps to arriving at a decision."
  created: '2010-02-15 04:02:07'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: If the text is in the vein of LOTR, I think <strong>Expo Serif</strong> is
    a great choice. Beatiful swashes, adequate darkness and some old style elements
    in a not so regular glyph design. Besides this, it counts with a complete set
    of OT features.
  created: '2010-02-15 04:04:58'
- author:
    name: zrisso
  body: 'Wow, Expo Serif is gorgeous! Not completely sure it would work for this book,
    but I love the font. '
  created: '2010-02-15 04:15:49'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Zach:\r\n\r\nFellow Typophile member Richard Fink and I were singing TypeCulture's
    praises just the other day. I've got Expo Serif and Sans Pro, and boy oh boy,
    does it ever set well. What a value!\r\n\r\nYou might also get some goodies in
    the mail after you purchase, like a letterpress broadside with a signed letter
    from Mark Jamra. TypeCulture's attention to customer satisfaction is personalized
    and second to none."
  created: '2010-02-15 04:34:01'
- author:
    name: zrisso
  body: 'It is definitely on my shortlist of fonts to buy... which has become a somewhat
    longer list than the name would suggest. '
  created: '2010-02-15 04:43:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It s a story; at it's core, about Hobbits from the Shire.</em>\r\n\r\nMiddle
    Earth was gothic, not greco-roman. The Age of Men that would kill off its magic
    was modern civilization, originating in Rome.\r\n\r\nWilliam Morris, who funnily
    enough was a pioneer in the creation of fantasy fiction, created a Pre-Raphaelite
    typeface for his kind of literature (the face was \"Troy\", a heavy 14th century-style
    roman/blackletter amalgam), but ultimately he came to accept that it was just
    too different a read, and favored the Golden Type (based on Jenson). Of course
    Jenson was Roman, but it was just about as early roman as you could get, and then
    the Golden Type took things a step earlier with a beefy antique veneer, and a
    million miles away from the Scotch Roman that is Miller.\r\n\r\nWhat is the point
    of looking for a typeface that is suitable for \"high fantasy set in the distant
    past\", if a 19th century style like Miller or a 21st century style like Expo
    is OK? Why not just choose anything you like the look of, regardless of provenance?
    \ Why bother qualifying what project you're asking about a typeface for, why not
    just ask \"What's the hot new face, Typophiles?\"\r\n\r\nIn the principle of historical
    allusion, which was dear to the heart of D.B. Updike, the idea is that the parts
    of a work must be integrated in a governing historical style. So apply that principle
    to cross over between text and typeface, and Miller and Expo are a no go. You
    can throw that out the window and yet still have a considered relationship between
    text and typography, as in Gareth Jones take on Dorian Gray: http://www.fourcornersbooks.co.uk/Dorian.html"
  created: '2010-02-15 06:09:20'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "Ah, the neverending quest for the relationship between form and content -
    I posted a thread about that Wilde's \"Dorian Gray\" edition, and that matter
    in general: http://typophile.com/node/61383\r\n\r\nFor what counts - I never used
    Adobe Jenson, so I can't tell anything about its features. But if you find it
    nice and useful for your settings, then go with it; thought I agree that it doesn't
    look like the best choice for books with long periods of text.\r\n\r\nAnd if we're
    talking about historical/contextual relationship between content and typeface,
    a \"fantasy novel set in a distant past\" seems a hard subject to find the proper
    font. So I suppose that any good contemporary serif will work."
  created: '2010-02-15 11:19:46'
- author:
    name: jonasthyssen
  body: I recently set a Fantasy book in Stempel Schneidler, which is also in Adobe's
    font folio. Jenson also came up, because the book had lenghty passages in italic,
    where Jenson's swash capabilities would be welcome, but i ended up trashing it,
    in favor of something more interesting.
  created: '2010-02-15 15:56:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I posted a thread about that Wilde's \"Dorian Gray\" edition, </em>\r\n\r\nThanks,
    that's what I remembered it from.\r\n\r\n<em>...a \"fantasy novel set in a distant
    past\" seems a hard subject to find the proper font.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy wouldn't
    a typeface that is an historical fiction, such as something by Goudy, be a straightforward
    choice?\r\nThe important thing is to avoid technological anachronism.\r\nAsk the
    question, \"given the world depicted in this novel, would such and such typeface
    have been technically and aesthetically feasible as part of its culture?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-15 17:28:00'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: Shouldn't clarity, legibility, readability be the basis for any choice of
    type, and the "historical allusions" come second?
  created: '2010-02-15 18:32:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Clarity and legibility yes, but readability is cultural as well as physiological.
    People \"read\" how appropriate a stye of typography is to the text, and if it
    sends the wrong messages, alluding to values which are at odds with the text,
    readability suffers. If that weren't the case, why would this thread exist?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-15 19:02:09'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nYour point about \"alluding to values which are at odds with
    the text\" is a good one. That's interesting. \r\n\r\nThe value component of a
    type in relation to the subject. "
  created: '2010-02-15 19:36:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Ask the question, \"given the world depicted in this novel, would such
    and such typeface have been technically and aesthetically feasible as part of
    its culture?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nIf one changes \"novel\" to \"history\" in the above,
    the statement would make little sense -- from the obvious that type itself may
    not have been available, to the somewhat more subtle that in historical description,
    we are always re-presenting events to an audience. How are contrary-to-fact histories
    so different?"
  created: '2010-02-15 19:52:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the statement would make little sense...</em>\r\n\r\nType may not
    have been available in the distant past, but if one is trying to create an atmosphere
    of long ago, an old type is closer than a newer one.\r\nMorris' Troy/Chaucer type
    was a typographic rendering of a pre-typographic style of blackletter script.
    Don't you think it was \"correct\" for his Chaucer, more so than the Golden Type?
    \r\n\r\nSure, every historical work is written later than the events, by definition.
    But if one is trying to create a feeling in the reader of being immersed in another
    world, to the full extent that Tolkein did in plot, characterization, names and
    places, and even writing in an archaic manner--rather than a dispassionate historical
    analysis from a later date--why not also use typography that is similarly informed?\r\n\r\nThat's
    not the only way to do it, of course. Led Zeppelin had Tolkienesque songs that
    were both acoustic (Battle of Evermore) and electric (Ramble on)."
  created: '2010-02-15 20:53:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Adobe Jenson's italic is great, if that's an important factor. \r\n\r\nAs
    I mentioned in the thread on darker fonts, Williams Caslon looks at the same time
    darker and more open than Adobe Caslon (IMHO). You can see samples from its use
    in Boston Magazine [[http://typophile.com/node/65216|here.]] It's not on the web
    site yet, but you can call Font Bureau and get it. \r\n\r\nI don't think it has
    a strong period feel. If you want something Baroque looking, I think the Fleishman
    influenced stuff has that more than other classic romans. Farnham and Mercury
    are good ones, and DTL Fleishman is closest to the original. "
  created: '2010-02-15 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "I guess there are at least two ways here to refer to historical/contextual
    relationship between form and content. I'll try to articulate this the best that
    I can.\r\n\r\n1. The form (choice of type or book layout) should have a direct
    linking to the subject of the book, or the period settings, the author's epoch,
    or, in a more vague way, to the tale's \"atmosphere\". Or to the typographical
    standards of that same era? So a novel taking place in late Nineteenth century
    England could be set, say, in a Scotch Roman type?\r\n\r\n2. By a strictly typographical
    point of view, the form as a sort of meta-reference to the \"genre\" - so a Tolkienesque
    novel should be set in a type used in Tolkien's days (or in his books published
    while he was living).\r\n\r\nWhile I find these approaches challenging, I am more
    and more persuaded that the best (type) choice in setting books shouldn't necessarily
    be bound to any historical/contextual matter. One could set an entire catalogue
    of books - from the Bible to cyberpunk - using the same typeface."
  created: '2010-02-16 10:52:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>. . . I am more and more persuaded that the best (type) choice in setting
    books shouldn't necessarily be bound to any historical/contextual matter. One
    could set an entire catalogue of books - from the Bible to cyberpunk - using the
    same typeface.</cite>\r\n\r\nCouldn't agree more -- as long as you are careful
    about picking that face. History seems on our side too. In the days of hot metal
    (to the mid 1960s) -- Linotype, at any rate, purchasing a new font family was
    about the same cost as purchasing a new car. Not something you would do for one
    or two books. For fun sometime, go look at printers specimen books to see how
    many text types they would offer.\r\n\r\nIn the photocomp days, up to and including
    the Linotron 202 (to the early 1990s), the cost was not insignificant, maybe 25%
    of the total the typesetting shop could bill for setting a book. The problem with
    photocomp was that while there may have been 2,000 fonts available, about 10 were
    suitable for bookwork. To many of the masters had not been adjusted for offset
    printing; too many of the masters were improperly spaced.\r\n\r\nNow (2010), buying
    a font, or even a font family, is less expensive. Some foundries charge about
    $200 for a family, and will only sell as a package. That's about 1/5 the amount
    coming back for typeseting a book without images. Still significant, but not too
    bad, until you add the 40 hours or so it takes the comp to get the roman and italic
    to work as you want them to -- kerning, a few extra needed features, characters,
    etc. Always assuming the EULA permitts.\r\n\r\nThe problem is that even if there
    are 20,000 or 200,000 typefaces now available, there still aren't that many suitable
    for book work. Same problems -- ease of reading, printing offset, and spacing.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nAllusiveness in choosing a typeface is more general. In days past,
    Times Roman could be used for \"all books\". Today, Minion. Not ideal for love
    poetry, agreed. but serviceable. So if,using a Linotron 202, you could choose
    from Trump, Times, Palatino, Baskerville, Sabon, Garamond 3 (but poor spacing),
    and a few others, you could pick a typeface that was more appropriate than the
    others for particular titles.\r\n\r\nThings are better now, but not all that much.\r\n\r\nNor
    do we want to get into having to place a warning label on the jacket that the
    reader can't really appreciate the type used without an extensive study of the
    history of type and type designers; that while the typeface used in this book
    is hard to read, that is more than offset by its <cite>appropriateness</cite>.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nType designers and type users are usually different people, and will
    often give different answers to the original question."
  created: '2010-02-16 12:45:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I mostly agree with Nick. If you have the possibility to emphasize the historical
    context with a graphic element \u2013type\u2013 it's good sense to use it. In
    the opposite way, <em>for me</em> it would become strange to set a book with a
    typeface which resembles a historical period very different than that referred
    by the text.\r\n\r\nOf course, this is a very general approach. Many typefaces
    will not produce any association to a historic period except for people with knowledge
    on type or design. And the average reader would be unaware of these details. But
    as designer, I'd <em>prefer</em> to choose a type with some kind of link to the
    historical period of the text."
  created: '2010-02-16 12:57:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Type designers and type users are usually different people</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't have statistics on that, but you may be wrong.\r\nDon't most type designers
    start out with typography as part of their \"day job\"? \r\n\r\nNonetheless, many
    typographers who don't design type do know quite a bit about the cultural and
    historical associations of the typefaces they use. How much anyone incorporates
    historical allusion into a given project is a judgement call. "
  created: '2010-02-16 16:28:35'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: When in doubt, use Plantin.
  created: '2010-02-16 23:15:08'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: 'For a Jenson alternative that''s better than Adobe''s, try Cloister Old Style. '
  created: '2010-02-16 23:38:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have not seen an edition of The Lord of the Rings set in anything but Times
    Roman, although I know of the existence of one that was most likely set in Caledonia
    due to the identity of its publisher.\r\n\r\nI would be most happy to purchase
    an edition set in something such as Golden, Cloister Old Style, or even merely
    Centaur, if one were available. But there are few books that I would so keenly
    seek to savor instead of merely reading. And even for The Lord of the Rings, I
    would draw the line at something as eccentric as \"The King's Fount\"... and I
    would be somewhat hesitant even at a readable text type such as Troy or Chaucer."
  created: '2010-02-17 17:25:04'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "My first version of <em>The Lords of the Ring</em> in Finnish was set in
    condenced Garamond. It was not too bad; I think it was optically widened. \r\n\r\nStill,
    next edition I bought was a hard cover."
  created: '2010-02-18 02:15:58'
- author:
    name: Wayne Hammond
  body: "<em>The Lord of the Rings</em> has had many different typesettings. The first
    and second primary (hardcover) editions were set in Imprint. The first one-volume
    paperback, and subsequently the India paper edition, were set in Pilgrim. The
    Folio Society edition was set in Barbou with Libra for display. As reported, the
    work later appeared (in paperback) in Times. The latest edition, which my wife
    and I edited, is in Plantin and very handsome. These are the British and American
    editions; in translation <em>The Lord of the Rings</em> may be found set in Bembo,
    Granjon, Palatino, etc., etc.\r\n\r\nI've been in the position of choosing typefaces
    for several books by and about Tolkien, as co-author or co-editor and designer.
    For <em>J.R.R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator</em> (on his pictorial art), I
    chose Sabon as a face such as Tolkien tended to prefer &ndash; practical, nothing
    fancy. I used the same face for Tolkien's <em>Roverandom</em>, and then again
    for the 50th anniversary edition of his <em>Farmer Giles of Ham</em>, where our
    introduction and notes had to harmonize with a facsimile of the original text,
    set in Garamond. When it came to <em>The J.R.R. Tolkien Companion and Guide</em>,
    our latest book, HarperCollins expressed a preference for Minion, and Minion Pro
    worked very well from both practical and aesthetic points of view.\r\n\r\nI worked
    as editor with Marquette University Press on the proceedings of a Tolkien scholarly
    conference, set in Adobe Jenson &ndash; okay, if a little fancy for my tastes
    for this purpose. It was a new face to the designer, whom I had to restrain from
    setting all italics with swashes on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-18 03:30:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just finished reading aloud to my daughter (over the course of a week or
    more) a lengthy children's heroic fantasy novel set in Adobe Jenson (Igraine the
    Brave). I thought it worked quite well, and was appropriate for the book. Of course,
    this was a children's book with a fair number of illustrations, so a fairly flavorful
    text face seemed just fine.\r\n\r\nI think Cloister Oldstyle would also be a fine
    Jenson-inspired choice. I'm also a huge fan of Arno Pro, and I'm sure it would
    work well in this context.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-18 05:01:04'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "If I am not mistaken, the Children of H\xFArin is set quite comfortably in
    Garamond."
  created: '2010-02-18 19:35:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... a face such as Tolkien tended to prefer \u2013 practical, nothing
    fancy.</em>\r\n\r\nJust like his writing :-) "
  created: '2010-02-18 21:43:46'
- author:
    name: zrisso
  body: "<em>I worked as editor with Marquette University Press on the proceedings
    of a Tolkien scholarly conference, set in Adobe Jenson \u2013 okay, if a little
    fancy for my tastes for this purpose. It was a new face to the designer, whom
    I had to restrain from setting all italics with swashes on.</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    I might have a coronary if I had to read Adobe Jenson in all italics partnered
    with swash characters."
  created: '2010-02-18 23:57:11'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I think Adobe Jenson is a good typeface, apart of one aspect. Instead of having
    a square period, Adobe wanted to accent that feature, so period is now more like
    a star.
  created: '2010-02-19 00:47:01'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "In my humble opinion Venetians aren't the best types for easy readability.
    \r\n\r\nPlantin and Poynter Old Style Text (No. 2), for instance, just flow like
    water on the page while maintaining a suitably classical flair. At least this
    is from my experience under laser-printng conditions. \r\n\r\nSame goes for Palatino,
    Documenta, Lexicon, even Dolly and Feijoa.  "
  created: '2010-02-19 02:10:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Tomi:<cite>\"Instead of having a square period, Adobe wanted to accent that
    feature, so period is now more like a star.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst, it wasn't \"Adobe\"
    but Robert Slimbach. It's not like these decisions get made by some corporate
    representative. It's possible that somebody else in the type group made a suggestion
    to Robert, but more likely it was entirely his idea.\r\n\r\nAs for whether that
    choice is authentic or reasonable, depending on the printing and inking, I have
    seen Jenson's periods look both more squarish:\r\nhttp://www.nonstaticdesign.com/files/images/content/jenson-eusubius.jpg\r\n\r\n...
    and more star-shaped:\r\nhttp://www.noamberg.com/thesis/blowrg/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/original-jenson-paragraph.png\r\n\r\nThough
    even the latter sample is not quite as star-shaped as Robert's Adobe Jenson.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-19 06:07:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Venetians aren't the best types for easy readability.</em>\r\n\r\nITC
    Berkeley has been quite widely used as a text face, both in periodicals and books
    (e.g. Harry Potter), despite the fact it has no \"sc and osf\", and is a Venetian,
    and was designed to be primarily a display face.\r\n\r\nThe fact that it has been
    bundled for free might have something to do with this.\r\n\r\nHowever, the simple
    fact is that people (typographers, their clients, readers) like it and think it
    reads well enough, whatever its theoretical shortcomings.\r\n\r\nTheory is useful,
    but only in so far as generalizations provide a background against which the exceptional
    stands out."
  created: '2010-02-19 17:26:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'I thought all the Harry Potter books were set in Adobe Garamond. But maybe
    that''s just the US editions. '
  created: '2010-02-20 00:05:26'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "For a Venetian (more or less) with some zip, there's Leksa:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/alexandra-korolkova/leksa/"
  created: '2010-02-20 04:44:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here ya go, Lord of the Rings with uncials, the Anglo-Saxon letterforms appropriate
    to the Shire.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/The_Lord_of_the_Rings_(1978)_3986_4848.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 07:58:30'
date: '2010-02-14 10:44:00'
node_type: forum
title: Adobe Jenson for Book Design

---
