---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/files/\r\n\r\nWould anybody explain,
  how to build WinTTX2.3.exe? I have produced a total chaos in the last two hours.
  I don\u2019t know, if I have damaged anything now. Adam Twardoch\u2019s (?) instructions,
  contained in fonttools-2.3.tar.gz instructions don\u2019t seem to be up to date.\r\n\r\nIf
  anybody has prebuilt installers, I am likewise interested. Independent from the
  question, if anybody can help me to build installers by myself.\r\n\r\nWhy don\u2019t
  the developers provide installers for each version?\r\n\r\nI have installed the
  following now:\r\nPython 2.3\r\nPython 2.3 Numeric-24.2 (I was asked for that during
  my attempts to build the installer. A version was not specified, but I had on my
  harddisc, because I needed it already for anything before.)\r\nPython 2.3 py2exe-0.6.9\r\nInno
  Setup Compiler 5.3.7 (u)\r\n\r\nAnd these are the instructions:\r\n\r\nPre-compiled
  versions are hosted at http://www.font.org/software/ttx/\r\n\r\nAPPROACH I: Using
  py2exe and InnoSetup\r\n\r\n1. Install Python 2.3 for Windows: http://www.python.org/\r\n2.
  Install py2exe: http://starship.python.net/crew/theller/py2exe/\r\n3. Install InnoSetup
  4: http://www.jrsoftware.org/\r\n4. Download the latest released source code of
  TTX/FontTools at\r\n   http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/\r\n   Or alternatively
  grab the sources from SVN:\r\n   http://fonttools.sourceforge.net/\r\n5. Unzip the
  source code of TTX/FontTools into a folder.\r\n6. In the folder where you unzipped
  TTX/FontTools, type:\r\n   python setup.py py2exe -f --icon Windows\\ttx.ico --packages
  encodings\r\n7. Run Inno Setup and open Windows\\fonttools-win-setup.iss\r\n8. In
  Inno Setup, select File/Compile, then Run/Run.\r\n\r\nAPPROACH II: Using McMillan
  Installer and InnoSetup\r\n\r\n1. Install Python 2.3 for Windows: http://www.python.org/\r\n2.
  Download and unpack McMillan installer: \r\n   http://py.vaults.ca/apyllo2.py/22208368\r\n
  \  and put the Installer folder into your Python folder, \r\n   e.g. C:\\Python23\\Installer\r\n3.
  Install InnoSetup 4: http://www.jrsoftware.org/\r\n4. Install Microsoft Visual C++
  Toolkit 2003: \r\n   http://msdn.microsoft.com/visualc/vctoolkit2003/\r\n5. Put
  UPX somewhere within your PATH: http://upx.sourceforge.net/\r\n6. Download the latest
  released source code of TTX/FontTools at\r\n   http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/\r\n
  \  Or alternatively grab the sources from SVN:\r\n   http://fonttools.sourceforge.net/\r\n7.
  Unzip the source code of TTX/FontTools into a folder.\r\n8. In the folder where
  you unzipped TTX/FontTools, type:\r\n   python setup.py install -f \r\n9. Edit mcmillan.bat
  so the paths in the file correspond to the paths in your system, \r\n   and run
  it. \r\n10.Run Inno Setup and open Windows\\fonttools-win-setup.iss\r\n11.In Inno
  Setup, select File/Compile, then Run/Run.\r\n\r\nThe distributable TTX Windows setup
  executable has been saved\r\nin the Output subfolder of the FontTools\\Windows folder.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "It\u2019s this command, that does not work:\r\npython setup.py py2exe -f
    --icon Windows\\ttx.ico --packages encodings\r\n\r\nerror: -f not recognized"
  created: '2010-02-14 18:17:34'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Adam's instructions are out of date, and won't work anymore without substantial
    modifications.\r\n\r\nSeveral years ago I built a TTX executable for Windows and
    created an installer for it; even then, I needed to deviate significantly from
    Adam's instructions. Adam still has my build available for download <a href=\"http://www.font.org/software/ttx/\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nIt
    so happens that I recently got a request from Adam to help create an updated Windows
    build from the latest SVN sources, so I've been working on this in my very limited
    spare time in the past week or so.\r\n\r\nI've successfully built a working Windows
    TTX executable using the latest versions of Python 2.x, Numeric, and py2exe. As
    soon as time permits, I'll be packaging it up into an installer, similar to the
    one that I built several years ago."
  created: '2010-02-14 22:15:09'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Spire\r\n\r\nThanks in advance! If you find the time I also would be interested
    in how to build an installer by myself, because otherwise I had to ask again,
    when the next version of FontTools is released. I have spent four or five hours
    with that today and I was wondering, why I was not able to find any informations
    with regard to how to make use of the FontTools package on Windows. I mean, who
    the hell is using this tool. Most people interested in building fonts, are not
    programmers. (I don\u2019t necessarily need the drag and drop function, because
    I am using all versions of TTX [up till 2.2 contained in the AFDK] with batch
    files. On the other side I am mainly interested in TTX but not in the rest of
    the FontTools package. So an installer would be more practical, because I don\u2019t
    want to install dozens of different Python versions, py2exes, numpies et cetera,
    especially not, if I even don\u2019t know, which versions are required. Python
    2.3 was already installed here because of FontLab.) Sorry, but I felt like an
    total idiot.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the search function of Typophile does likewise
    not work as it should. I always have to google for keywords in combination with
    \"site:typophile.com\".\r\n\r\nThanks again!"
  created: '2010-02-14 22:55:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I was not able today to build an TTX installer, but at least I am able to
    use TTX 2.3 now.\r\n\r\nI have installed the following packages:\r\nnumpy-1.3.0-win32-superpack-python2.6.exe\r\npy2exe-0.6.9.win32-py2.6.exe\r\npython-2.6.4.msi\r\n\r\nAnd
    used this command from the fonttools-directory (in my case C:\\fonttools-2.3):\r\nC:\\Python26\\python.exe
    setup.py install\r\n\r\nAnd then I have deleted the fonttools directory, because
    I could start ttx either with ttx.py from a subfolder of the fonttools directory
    or from a subfolder of the Python directory, in which the fonttools (partly?)
    were copied during the install command.\r\n\r\nttx.py -h is the help command of
    TTX (if the Python extension is registered). Just for the case, that someone is
    less competent than me and needs three days instead of two for something, that
    would need a few minutes only, if developers would be more interested in users
    (which are potential developers and bug-reporters)."
  created: '2010-02-15 22:06:14'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: I didn't realize that you hadn't even been able to run TTX via an installed
    copy of Python. If you had mentioned that, I could have given you quick instructions
    on how to set that up.
  created: '2010-02-15 23:06:37'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I wanted to avoid installing another version of Python because of FontLab.
    And I prefer standalone versions of TTX, because I want to have all of them installed.
    I doubt, that I could install another version of FontTools parallel in the Python
    directory.\r\n\r\nSo I have TTX 2.0b1 from the only actually available installer
    version, TTX 2.0b2 from the AFDKO 2.0_26, TTX 2.2 from the AFDKO 2.5_21898 and
    TTX 2.3 from FontTools 2.3.\r\n\r\nAnd I am using the same batch files (in different
    directories) for all versions except from one, in which the paths are set and
    that is called by the other batch files (because in the past I had to change the
    paths in all batch files.)\r\n\r\nFor version 2.3:\r\n\r\n@echo off\r\nset \"FDK=C:\\Python26\\Lib\\site-packages\\FontTools\\fontTools\"\r\nset
    \"TTXcom=call %FDK%\\ttx.py\"\r\nset \"TTXhelpCom=%FDK%\\ttx.py -h\"\r\n\r\nFor
    version 2.2:\r\n@echo off\r\nset \"FDK=C:\\FDK_25_21898\\Tools\\win\"\r\nset \"TTXcom=call
    %FDK%\\ttx\"\r\nset \"TTXhelpCom=%FDK%\\Python\\Current\\python.exe %FDK%\\Python\\Current\\Scripts\\ttx
    -h\""
  created: '2010-02-15 23:26:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nplease consider that opensource efforts such as TTX/FontTools
    are made by volunteers in their spare time. The concept of opensource is that
    any developer can, and is encouraged, to contribute. The software comes free of
    charge, as is. There is nobody who collects license fees, and there is nobody
    who gets paid for their work on the software.\r\n\r\nWhen I produced the build
    instructions for TTX/FontTools for Windows five or so years ago, I worked on Windows,
    so I had the time and possibility to research it, put it together and document
    it. The reason for me doing it was pretty much so that I can make a working build
    myself, for my own needs. And needless to say, I did it on a fully voluntary basis
    -- just like Just van Rossum put enormous time and effort to develop TTX/FontTools
    in the first place. \r\n\r\nAdobe's Read Roberts contributed some code to TTX/FontTools,
    and fortunately enough, Adobe FDK for OpenType includes a compiled version of
    TTX for Windows (as you point out, currently, it's the TTX 2.2 version). \r\n\r\nMore
    than two years ago, I completely switched to Mac OS X, and unfortunately, I can
    no longer maintain build instructions for Windows. I simply don't have the necessary
    up-to-date software, nor a working Windows machine where I could do it. And I
    don't have the time. Plus, yes, the motivation of creating a working build MYSELF
    no longer applies. This is why I contacted Spire, asking him to contribute, since
    he did make a more updated build more recently. \r\n\r\nAnyone willing to contribute
    updated build instructions for TTX/FontTools for Windows is welcome to do so (or
    is welcome to find a Python for Windows developer who is willing to do it, and
    pay him). This is the key concept of opensource.\r\n\r\nMilton Friedman used to
    say \"There is no such thing as a free lunch\". If the lunch is said to be free,
    it may mean that you need to participate in cooking it.\r\n\r\nThough I can say,
    if someone writes a simple-to-follow set of instructions for building an executable
    version of TTX 2.3 for Windows under today's conditions, I can make sure that
    it gets incorporated into the official distributive. And I'll be happy to continue
    hosting the executable versions on font.org/software/ttx/ -- this is as much as
    I can do today. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 00:46:58'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: I do intend to provide updated simple-to-follow build instructions for Windows
    at around the time I finish up the installer.
  created: '2010-02-16 01:03:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "All I can access right now is my MacBook Pro with OS X 10.5; I use python2.5.1
    (as /usr/bin/python). I just downloaded ttx 2.3. In a Terminal window, in the
    folder fonttools-2.3, I typed <code>setup.py --help</code> to get the required
    help and did what I was told to do.\r\n<code>\r\nsetup.py build\r\nsudo setup.py
    install\r\n</code>\r\nI had to exit Terminal and start it again so that ttx would
    give me ttx 2.3 (else it is the FDK ttx, which is ttx 2.2 that was fetched even
    after installing).\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nPS. The message does not say to write
    \"sudo\". I however expected ttx to be installed in /usr/local (and there it is)
    and sudo allows me to do that on a unix based machine.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-16 01:52:16'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I have a running version of ttx 2.3 on Windows XP.\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li> I
    downloaded python2.6 from http://www.python.org/download/ and installed in C:\\python26</li>\r\n<li>
    I downloaded numpy from http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy/files/ (the files
    were installed in C:\\python26 also)</li>\r\n<li> I downloaded fonttools http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/files/
    and untared</li>\r\n<li> I added C:\\Python26 to my  PATH (so that python be C:\\python26\\python.exe)</li>\r\n<li>
    In the fonttools-2.3 folder I executed \"python setup.py build\"</li>\r\n<li>
    I then executed \"python setup.py install\"</li>\r\n<li> I added in the folder
    C:\\Python26 a file called ttx23.cmd whose content is\r\n<code>\r\n@echo off\r\nC:\\Python26\\python
    C:\\Python26\\Scripts\\ttx %*\r\n</code>\r\n</li>\r\n</ol>\r\nI tried ttx23 on
    some ttf file  (in a command window) and everything seemed to work fine. That
    way ttx stays the old FDK ttx. I don't know what side effect that may have on
    FontLab.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-16 19:16:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Is there any version of TTX currently available that can handle the latest
    version of the OS/2 table? I get a lot of failures because of that....\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-21 05:18:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'The current TTX 2.3 supports the OS/2 version 4 table. '
  created: '2010-02-21 09:08:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@spire and adam,\r\n\r\nThanks for your efforts.\r\nA Windows installer for
    2.3 would be sensational. Free tools like TTX are great for web designers and
    developers who are looking to experiment with fonts but are not yet quite ready
    to make an investment in a font editor.\r\nI recommend TTX in the documentation
    for <a href=\"http\"//eotfast.com\">EOTFAST</a>.\r\nIf I can be of any help please
    don't hesitate to contact me via contact page on my blog, <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable
    Web</a>.\r\n\r\nRichard Fink"
  created: '2010-02-22 03:49:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's great that TTX 2.3 supports the latest, but there's no Windows installer.
    My main machine is running 64-bit Vista. So I installed 64-bit Python 2.6. But
    I don't see an X86-64-bit NumPy... now what? Uninstall that Python and go with
    a 32-bit version?\r\n\r\nThis is the kind of thing that makes me wish TTX were
    a commercial utility. I'd be happy to spend $50 on it to avoid spending an hour
    trying to figure out how to install it on my OS version.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-24 04:31:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Upon  further reflection, I think the Win-AMD64 version is probably correct...
    will give it a go.\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n[UPDATE: Now I learn that the Win 64 version
    of NumPy is \"experimental, and only available for testing... CRASHES ARE TO BE
    EXPECTED\" and indeed it crashed ttx. But I think I had everything wired up correctly
    thanks to Michel's instructions. I guess I'll switch to 32-bit versions of everything
    and try again. Sigh.]\r\n\r\n[UDPATE 2: Now working! Excellent. Next to install
    the Mac version on my Mac.]"
  created: '2010-02-24 06:27:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Funny, it looked like the Mac install would be easier than the Windows one.\r\n\r\nI'm
    on OS X 10.5.8, in Terminal. I unpacked the FontTools folder and went in. It looked
    like the build command worked.\r\n\r\nWhen I type \"sudo setup.py install\" in
    Terminal, I got the error \"sudo: setup.py: command not found\"\r\n\r\nAt first
    I thought it was that my Mac doesn't have Python in its path. With a little digging,
    I realized that the only version of Python I have on this machine is the one in
    the Adobe AFDKO. I assumed the Mac *came* with Python, and I was wrong. I think
    I'll install Python 2.6 at the main level rather than make TTX/FontTools dependent
    on something in an AFDKO directory.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 06:52:43'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>I assumed the Mac *came* with Python</em>\r\n\r\nIt does. Could you have
    removed it perhaps? The \"site packages\" are usually in /Library/Python/[version]/site-packages/
    and the actual Python frameworks in /System/Library/Frameworks/Python.framework/Versions/[version].
    On 10.6 I have three versions there, 2.3 (which FontLab uses), 2.5 (carried over
    from Mac OS 10.5), and 2.6, which is the version shipped with Snow Leopard.\r\n\r\nI
    currently use ttx version 2.2 with Python 2.5, and I have successfully used it
    to \xBBupgrade\xAB fonts from OS/2 table version 3 to 4. So Adam's statement\r\n\r\n<em>The
    current TTX 2.3 supports the OS/2 version 4 table.</em>\r\n\r\nis probably true,
    but ttx 2.2 also seems to handle it :)"
  created: '2010-02-24 07:38:16'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Thomas\r\n\r\n<cite>This is the kind of thing that makes me wish TTX were
    a commercial utility.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. There are many OpenSource projects, that
    are better than commercial projects. But there is a TTX section on the FontLab
    forum. If more people would ask their questions there, more people could solve
    problems with TTX. And if there would be an installer and tutorials, more people
    would be interested in TTX. Making the start with TTX difficult by not updating
    installation informations, makes TTX inattractive. And as less interested people
    there are, as less people contribute to the project. And the consequence is, that
    many people don\u2019t see, what a great tool TTX is. That\u2019s unprofessional.
    I would prefer a TTX section on Typophile. Maybe we can open such a section here.\r\n\r\nFor
    example it would be very cool, if we could integrate a comment function into TTX.
    Actually I am using a small search and replace tool, that comments the namerecords,
    but its extremely slow. It would be much more comfortable to either use a Python
    search and replace function or to put comments directly into the TTX file during
    the decompilation.\r\n\r\nAnd another example: TTX can extract the hexdata of
    all tables. If a table is unknown, it extracts the hexdata. If a table is known,
    it decompiles it. If you want to extract a known table, you have to rename or
    to remove the matching table-py- and pyc-files. This is uncomfortable, but probably
    it can easily be changed. Such hexdata can be merged into other fonts. They only
    must have the same glyph order. So TTX can be usefull, even if it is unable to
    decompile a table correctly. (TTX 2.3 trashes information contained in the featureParams
    tags of the GSUB-table, but don\u2019t posts an error message.)\r\n\r\n(If you
    want to have a commercial tool, why don\u2019t you buy OTMaster? In my opinion
    the price of OTMaster is much too high. DTL even wants to have 50 Euro for the
    update, although there was not much time between versions 1 and 2. But you have
    worked for Adobe and probably you have more money. I don\u2019t need most of its
    functions, especially not the glyph editor. In case of OTMaster you cannot contribute.)\r\n\r\nDo
    you know, how I have learned CSS? I started to manipulate the skin of Firefox.
    (You can change almost everything in Firefox. And that is an OpenSource project,
    that is a thousand times better than the stupid Microsoft Internet Explorer. Microsoft
    has slowed down the development of websites. We had to live one decade with the
    MS shit, before Firefox came, because the dominance of MS did not motivate web
    designers to write clean code for a few users only, that use alternative browsers
    [or simply, browsers, but not the IE]. LATER I used my knowledge about CSS for
    websites. If the start with TTX would be easier, probably more people would be
    willing to learn Python and contribute to the Fonttools project."
  created: '2010-02-24 07:43:21'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>When I type \"sudo setup.py install\" in Terminal, I got the error
    \"sudo: setup.py: command not found\"</cite>\r\n\r\nTo know if python is installed
    and where, you can just type <code>which python</code> in the terminal window.
    If you type <code>python -V</code> you will be told the version. I am on OS X
    10.5.8 on my PowerBook Pro and the installation was almost immediate. If <strong><code>.</code></strong>
    (the current directory) is not in your path, then <code>sudo setup.py install</code>
    will not work and give you exactly the message you got because the exectutable
    <code>setup.py</code> will not be in your path and thus will not be found. You
    then need to type\r\n\r\n<code>./setup.py build\r\nsudo ./setup.py install</code>\r\n\r\nNow,
    if <code>/usr/local/bin</code> is not in your path and before the FDK path, then
    when typing <code>ttx</code> in the terminal window, you will still get the old
    FDK ttx. To see your path, type\r\n\r\n<code>echo $PATH</code>\r\n\r\nin a terminal
    window. That gives you a list of folders where executables are to be searched.
    If <code>/usr/local/bin</code> is not in the : separated list, and before the
    folder <code>/Users ... /FDK/Tools/osx</code>, then maybe the best thing to do
    is then to type\r\n\r\n<code>open build</code>\r\n\r\nwhich will open the build
    folder; then double click on the <code>scripts-2.5</code> folder, rename <code>ttx</code>
    to <code>ttx2.3</code> and move that file into your FDK  executables folder. After
    that, typing <code>ttx2.3</code> in a terminal window will give you the new ttx.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-02-24 13:19:43'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "@Thomas\r\n<cite>When I type \"sudo setup.py install\" in Terminal, I got
    the error \"sudo: setup.py: command not found\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI think the command
    should be \"sudo python setup.py install\" instead of \"sudo setup.py install\""
  created: '2010-02-24 16:36:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>I think the command should be \"sudo python setup.py install\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    will also work. The file setup.py is both a python script and a unix script because
    its first line is \"<code>#!/usr/bin/env python</code>\" i.e. python is called
    on it when executed as a shell script."
  created: '2010-02-24 16:53:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "All good, after I installed Python. My Mac was set up my IT folks at my work,
    so I can probably blame them for the missing Python.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:31:59'
- author:
    name: fanatic font addict
    picture: 114337
  body: "Arno Enslin wrote:\r\n\r\n\"It\u2019s this command, that does not work:\r\npython
    setup.py py2exe -f --icon Windows\\ttx.ico --packages encodings\r\n\r\nerror:
    -f not recognized\"\r\n\r\n\r\nremove the -f and --icon option\r\n\r\nThen add
    the following to the setup.py file:\r\n\r\nconsole = [\"tools/ttx\"],\r\n\r\nyou
    can add it after the existing line that reads\r\n\r\nscripts' = [\"tools/ttx\"],\r\n\r\nWithout
    the \"console = ...\" line it won't create ttx.exe.   The console command is a
    py2exe command. The scripts command is just some python command evidently, not
    connected to py2exe which is the thing that actually creates a ttx command line
    executable.  You can use the \"windows = \" command instead of \"console = \"
    \ to create a windows GUI .exe.\r\n\r\nHere's a list of option for py2exe:\r\nhttp://www.py2exe.org/index.cgi/ListOfOptions\r\n\r\nThere
    could be a lot of other extraneous things in that existing setup.py, but adding
    the \"console = ...\" line will create the executable.\r\n\r\n(Didn't really know
    anything about Python till a couple of hours ago though.)\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-17 07:17:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ fanatic font addict\r\n\r\n<cite>There could be a lot of other extraneous
    things in that existing setup.py, but adding the \"console = ...\" line will create
    the executable.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo you have not tried to build the installer? The
    last time I have tried it I produced a totally mess. I am still interested in
    a tutorial, but not in more experiments."
  created: '2010-05-18 20:36:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Spire\r\n\r\nPlease, please, provide the installer or \u2013 better \u2013
    instructions, how to build an installer."
  created: '2010-06-05 08:19:02'
- author:
    name: ssdesign
  body: "Hi,\r\nCan anyone here help me understand how to install TTX on a web server?\r\nI
    am interested to install it on my web host and try out a few things online.\r\n\r\nAny
    help in this regard is greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2010-06-15 07:08:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "ssdesign, \r\n\r\nif you have Python on your webserver, you just need to
    do\r\n<code>python setup.py install</code>\r\n\r\n(Well, you need to install NumPy
    first.)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-15 09:55:47'
- author:
    name: Pomax
  body: "For those who \"just want TTX 2.3\" on windows, I compiled a version using
    the above recipe (setup.py build/install + http://typophile.com/node/67406#comment-407219
    instructions) and placed it online at http://pomax.nihongoresources.com/downloads/TTX%202.3%20-%20win32.ZIP
    (8.2MB).\r\n\r\nThis version of TTX was build on a windows 7, using the 32 bit
    versions of python 2.7 and py2exe (there was no real point in compiling a 64 bit
    version, because nothing TTX does really benefits from 64 bit instructions)\r\n\r\nNo
    installer, just unpack to your \"Program Files\" (on win32) or \"Program Files
    (x86)\" (on win64) and done. To then also use it from anywhere and everywhere,
    simply extend your system's PATH variable (control panel -> system -> advanced
    system settings -> environment variables -> system variables, \"PATH\" variable)
    to include \"C:\\Program Files (x86)\\TTX\" (the exact drive and folder depends
    on where you unpack it to, of course)"
  created: '2011-06-25 07:45:53'
- author:
    name: brunoimbrizi
  body: "Thanks to a lot of the comments here I managed to install TTX 2.3 on Windows.\r\nHere's
    my suggestion for updated instructions on the README.txt file:\r\n\r\nAPPROACH
    I: Using py2exe and InnoSetup\r\n\r\n1. Install Python 2.7 for Windows: http://www.python.org/\r\n2.
    Install py2exe: http://starship.python.net/crew/theller/py2exe/\r\n3. Install
    NumPy http://numpy.scipy.org/\r\n4. Install InnoSetup 5: http://www.jrsoftware.org/\r\n5.
    Download the latest released source code of TTX/FontTools at\r\n   http://sourceforge.net/projects/fonttools/\r\n
    \  Or alternatively grab the sources from SVN:\r\n   http://fonttools.sourceforge.net/\r\n5.
    Unzip the source code of TTX/FontTools into a folder.\r\n6. In the folder where
    you unzipped TTX/FontTools, edit setup.py and add:\r\n   console = [\"Tools/ttx\"],\r\n
    \  right after this line:\r\n   scripts = [\"Tools/ttx\"],\r\n7. In the folder
    where you unzipped TTX/FontTools, type:\r\n   python setup.py build\r\n   python
    setup.py install\r\n   python setup.py py2exe --packages encodings\r\n8. Run Inno
    Setup and open Windows\\fonttools-win-setup.iss\r\n9. In Inno Setup:\r\n   Edit
    the line:\r\n   Source: ..\\dist\\ttx\\*.*; \r\n   to\r\n   Source: ..\\dist\\*.*;\r\n
    \  And delete the line:\r\n   Source: ..\\Doc\\bugs.txt; DestDir: {app}; Flags:
    ignoreversion promptifolder\r\n10. In Inno Setup, hit Build > Compile, then Run
    > Run.\r\n\r\nThe distributable TTX Windows setup executable has been saved\r\nin
    the Output subfolder of the FontTools\\Windows folder."
  created: '2011-09-29 23:57:52'
- author:
    name: vodek
  body: "brunoimbrizi, thanks a lot for you post!\r\n\r\nCompiled version of TTX/FontTools
    2.4 for Windows:\r\nhttp://rusfolder.com/37217290\r\n\r\nThis version of TTX was
    build on Windows 7, Python 2.7.5 Win32 (http://www.python.org/download/), Py2exe
    0.6.9 Win32 for Python 2.7 (http://www.py2exe.org/), NumPy 1.7.1 for Python 2.7
    Win32 (http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy/files/NumPy/), Inno Setup 5.5.3 (non
    Unicode version) (http://www.jrsoftware.org/isdl.php).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-20 14:50:52'
date: '2010-02-14 18:08:21'
title: TTX 2.3 installer?

---
