---
author:
  name: team ginger
  picture: 119053
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/forever-onward_4985.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nHey
  hey typophiles,\r\n\r\nSo this is my story; I'm hopefully moving to Korea in August
  to become one of those horrible foreign English teachers over there. A big part
  of the attraction is learning Korean and subsequently how to use the Hangul alphabet,
  proper like. One of the things I REALLY want to achieve is to have designed a Korean/Hangul
  Typeface by the time I get back, could be one year, could be never... Lots of time
  to play with. Plus I think it would be really useful with the process of learning
  the language and becoming (very) familiar with the letter/word-forms.\r\n\r\nNow
  obviously the modernist or 'sans serif' style hangul typefaces are on the whole
  more unattractive than mouldy genitals, unless you get past that thought and begin
  to appreciate the utalitarian functionality of the language, Arial Unicode is a
  fine example of just how offensive to the eye hangul gets. Yet the traditional/classical
  approaches are on the whole really quite pretty in my humble opinion. So i'm thinking
  somewhere in the middle, something like a western humanist typeface, just hangul
  characters instead obviously. Above is my first attempt, built out of a small number
  of shapes (with quite strict layout rules) to refer to the modernist hangul, yet
  using a lot more of the flair of the classical style hangul. I think it has potential,
  yet it's a very quick attempt, I'm not happy with where it's going and will probably
  scrap it and start again properly.\r\n\r\nSo long story short, I'm a bit of a fanny.
  All I really wanted to ask is can anybody point me in the direction of some good
  english language resources on designing hangul type, or even just some nice examples
  of Korean typefaces?\r\n\r\nThanks muchly."
comments:
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I can't help you in your quest, but the working title for your typeface rang
    a bell.\r\n\r\n\"Ever Onwards\" is the title of a song. Famous from company morale-building
    sing-alongs of a major American computer company.\r\n\r\nOur reputation shines
    like a gem...\r\nEver onwards, I-B-M!"
  created: '2010-02-20 00:11:48'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Is \uC601\uC6D0\uD788 \uC774\uD6C4 meant to be a translation of \"ever onwards\"?
    It is a nonsensical combination in Korean.\r\n\r\nArial Unicode's hangul is offensive,
    period. I have stated this repeatedly on these forums. The letters shown in the
    sample aren't even the worst offenders. Please, please do not think of it as representative
    of hangul typeface design. I do not know about the provenance of the design, but
    considering the amount of criticism the design of the non-Latin components of
    Arial Unicode receives, I would guess that non-native eyes having no feel for
    the traditional forms and proportions were involved.\r\n\r\nThat said, I don't
    know where your judgement as a non-native comes from, so here I provide a sample
    of a number of hangul typefaces. Each of these are serviceable hangul typefaces,
    and some of them even beautiful. I used the same letters as in your sample, nonsensical
    as they may be. ;)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hangulsample_6095.gif]\r\n\r\nDotum
    and Batang are old designs based on the work of Choe Jeongho (1916-1988). Batang
    seems to be a version of Hanyang Systems' Sinmyeongjo slightly modified for Microsoft.\r\n\r\nMunchebu
    Batang was designed in the early 1990s with Choe Jeongsun, another hugely influential
    type designer, as the principal designer.\r\n\r\nMalgun Gothic, Nanum Gothic,
    and Nanum Myeongjo are contemporary designs and reflect the current trends in
    Hangul type design.\r\n\r\nI am not quite sure what you mean when you say modernist
    and classical hangul, but I'll assume you are referring to sans serif and serif
    forms. The earliest hangul types from the 15th century were sans serif, and the
    serif forms developed organically as hangul was written with a brush.\r\n\r\nIn
    your attempt, the serifs on the vertical strokes of \uC6D0, \uD788, and \uC774
    are extremely pronounced and incorrectly angled, so much so that they can be mistaken
    as different letters (\uD5C8 and \uC5B4 in the latter two cases). The proportions
    are somewhat all over the place. The upper part of \uC601 has drifted way upperwards,
    while the \u314E in \uD788 seems plopped downwards even in comparison with \uC774.
    Hangul doesn't have a baseline, but uses a visual centre line which can be tricky.
    This visual centre line is slightly above the geometric centre line, and in contemporary
    designs it tends to be higher. You should also consider the spaces between the
    strokes (the \"whites\", except that in your reversed sample they are the \"blacks\")
    and harmonize them; the middle gap in \uC601 is extreme.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to
    discourage you, but realistically, you shouldn't expect to produce anything more
    than a funky display face and pray that it is readable. Just look at as many hangul
    designs as possible (preferably those designed by actual Koreans, not Arial Unicode)
    and get a feel form the forms, and it should be a good learning experience. I
    unfortunately don't know of any material in English relating to the design of
    hangul typefaces, and even the scant material available in Korean tends to be
    really general ones about optical correction and the like. The best way to learn
    is by looking at as many successful typefaces as possible, and maybe try out traditional
    Korean calligraphy to help you understand the classical forms shaped by the brush.\r\n\r\nI
    also dabble in hangul type design from time to time. Here's a taste of what I'm
    working on at the moment:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/haneuldaramjwi_4012.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-20 11:30:24'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'm just curious whether Arial Unicode's hangul looks so ugly to me just
    because I am accustomed to the normative forms and proportions of hangul as a
    native reader.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialdotumcomp_4779.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    made a quick sample so people could compare Arial Unicode (above) to Dotum (below),
    which is representative of the genre Arial Unicode hangul is presumably aspiring
    to. With its exaggerated elongated consonants and wide proportions, Dotum is itself
    a really dated design, sort of like early grotesques for Latin sans serifs. But
    despite its idiosyncrasies, it was clearly designed by someone who knew what he
    was doing (namely the hugely influential Choe Jeongho).\r\n\r\nI will refrain
    from pointing out what I think is wrong with this sample of Arial Unicode. I want
    to hear the opinions of those who don't read Korean. Does the Arial Unicode indeed
    look worse than Dotum to you? Can you articulate why? I've always been curious
    about the extent to which people can judge typefaces in writing systems they cannot
    read."
  created: '2010-02-20 20:34:20'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Ooooh, this is something I'm fascinated about too.\r\n\r\nTo my eyes, they're
    not all that different. The obvious differences to me are in the \u3145 and \u314A
    jamo - the join at the top is different, and the Dotum shows much more pronounced
    modulation of the brushstroke. I'm also, of course, drawn to the microserifs,
    which I've always loved in Japanese Gothic fonts, and I borrowed for Inconsolata.\r\n\r\nIn
    some of the Arial glyphs, I can see why the designers departed from Dotum. In
    \uCCC7, the \u3145 seems to have more negative space above it, separating it from
    the vowel \u3154 (but in \uC950 it's the other way around - Dotum has a good air
    gap, and Unicode looks smashed - and also, the way the \u314A and \u3154 fit together
    more snugly in the Dotum, almost like an interlock, something we see more explicitly
    in the Malgun sample above). In the Dotum, they almost seem to crash into each
    other. Also, the \u3139 looks more centered in its space in the Arial - in the
    Dotum, its center of gravity seems to be leaning to the left. Finally, in \uBC14,
    the \u3142 fills its space more fully in Arial, and seems somewhat small and isolated
    in Dotum. It's impossible for me to judge whether these are cases of authenticity
    being homogenized, or whether Dotum is quirky, or what.\r\n\r\n@ginger: it sounds
    like a lot of fun to hang out and absorb the culture and language. Enjoy!"
  created: '2010-02-21 01:19:25'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Interesting! For now, I'll just say that the joins in the \u3145, \u3148,
    and \u314A jamo are a matter of stylistic preference, and both Dotum- and Arial-Unicode-style
    solutions are found in hangul sans serif faces. Some recent faces including Nanum
    Gothic also mimic the serif faces in making \u3148 look like \u3131 plus a stroke.\r\n\r\nThe
    microserifs of course are also a matter of aesthetic preference. So those differences
    are not what I had in mind.\r\n\r\nI'll refrain from saying more, because I'd
    like to hear more comments from non-Koreans about this."
  created: '2010-02-21 02:30:58'
- author:
    name: maxgraphic
    picture: 115146
  body: "All the Korean I can read is \uAE40\uCE58 (kim chi), yum, but what bothers
    me about the Arial  sample is the inconsistent stroke thickness and modulation.
    The \u110E, \u110C, and \u1109 seem too heavy to me and too low in contrast.\r\n\r\nIt
    also seems to have that inexplicable ungainliness that Arial features in the Roman,
    but that's harder for me to quantify.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-21 06:00:31'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "This is fascinating. I am local to New Malden near London, so I see Hangul
    alphabet every time I go outside! Are there any Korean Typographers or Type Designers
    in New Malden? Would be cool to say hello if so. Direct Mail me if so.\r\n\r\n[This
    is also for me to /track this first-class thread]"
  created: '2010-02-21 10:25:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Interesting, Brian. To your question, as one who is completely ignorant about
    Korean and Hangul, I do not see a dramatic difference between your Arial and Dotum
    examples. \r\n\r\nFrom a purely [personal] aesthetic perspective, I can find things
    about either that may seem more pleasing to my own sense of balance and form in
    the case of any given character. \r\n\r\nWhen I reflect carefully, there are a
    few weight balance issues that I can discern in the Arial \u2014 especially the
    heaviness of \u110E \u110C \u1109. (Ha, had to copy those from a previous post,
    because I have no idea what they are ;-)\r\n\r\nBut because I have no imprint
    of normative forms, I really don\u2019t judge most of the differences to be either
    dramatic or viscerally good/bad."
  created: '2010-02-21 13:57:13'
- author:
    name: team ginger
    picture: 119053
  body: "@ Jongseong \r\n\r\nYou sir are an absolute STAR! Thanks, that's heaps of
    info. Haven't really got the time to read through properly now, but I will be
    back with some more substantial input. Thanks loads and to everyone else.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    My understanding of Korean is next to none, I just know I love the way the language
    functions and wanna get to know it well. Also what I wrote in Hangul is no doubt
    nonsensical, I did that most heinous of crimes and used a bit of google translate
    for it. I'm just playing at the mo and wanted something to fiddle with...\r\n\r\nBut
    yeah thanks."
  created: '2010-02-21 15:49:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Brian, speaking as a complete non-reader of Hangul, the spacing of some parts
    of the Dotum example seems to me less good than that of the Arial Unicode. In
    particular, the arrangement of the second syllable in the second word seems problematic:
    the two components are so far apart that the second visually associates more with
    the following syllable. In the Arial Unicode example, there is a strong sense
    of each syllable as a visual unit. On the other hand, the first word knits together
    better in the Dotum example, and I can imagine this being quicker to recognise
    for an experienced reader.'
  created: '2010-02-21 17:30:34'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: I see the quality of Dotum to be in the allowance of a more equal space around
    the strokes. This is more even than in the Arial example.
  created: '2010-02-21 18:22:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks for all your comments! This has been really illuminating. Outside
    perspectives are invaluable in helping one see what one would never have noticed
    as an insider.\r\n\r\nIn the Korean design community, Arial Unicode's hangul is
    considered such an obvious failure that no one bothers to explain why exactly
    it fails. Even non-designers can tell something's wrong. When I did a web search
    about Arial Unicode's hangul, I came across several instances of people trying
    to find out why the hangul font was being displayed all ugly on a web page or
    a web application, the answer being that for some reason (e.g. style sheets),
    the hangul was being set in Arial Unicode. In fairness, apart from the design
    itself, the bad hinting certainly doesn't help Arial Unicode, making it really
    hard to read in smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nSo when I saw here on Typophile people recommending
    Arial Unicode as a suitable font for displaying hangul, I was initially taken
    aback. It's like finding people recommending Comic Sans as a suitable Latin text
    font in a Korean typography forum. But upon reflection, I realized that the flaws
    of Arial Unicode's hangul may not be all that obvious to those who don't read
    hangul. I tried to imagine what Arial Unicode's hangul would look like from the
    perspective of a non-native, which led to some really interesting observations.
    This gave me the idea to ask some actual non-natives for their opinions.\r\n\r\nIt
    would of course have been better as an experiment if I just asked people to compare
    the examples without voicing my own opinion first, but I had already stated it
    in this thread...\r\n\r\nKent is spot on about the weight balance issues of Arial
    Unicode. Hangul syllables can exhibit pronounced differences of stroke density,
    so it is really important to shave the weight off the strokes in the denser parts
    to keep things even. Those only used to designing Latin typefaces may be more
    prone to overlooking this need, but then, I expect more skilled type designers
    to get this right even if they don't read hangul.\r\n\r\nI also agree with Michael's
    observation that Dotum pays more attention to allowing more equal space around
    the strokes. This should also make sense for non-native but skilled type designers.\r\n\r\nA
    less obvious thing to get right is getting the visual alignment of hangul. Latin
    letters rest on a baseline, but hangul letters (when set horizontally) are visually
    centred vertically on an imaginary horizontal line that is slightly above the
    geometric centre in text typefaces. In Arial Unicode, the \uCCC7 has a high centre
    of gravity due to the compressed top components, while \uBC14 has a much lower
    centre of gravity. There's nothing intrinsically wrong with the balance of either
    letter, but they simply don't work together as they are not aligned.\r\n\r\nAs
    Raph observes, the \u3142 in \uBC14 fills its space more fully in Arial Unicode.
    The problem is that the space-filling is not matched by the other letters. I happen
    to think that such extreme space-filling is rather ugly for hangul, but it is
    acceptable if is applied consistently across the whole design; Gulim, another
    Windows system font, is a good example, as are the types of serif typefaces used
    for newspapers. Arial Unicode's \uC950, \uCCC7, and \uD034 are too gappy down
    low to match the space-filling of \uB2E4 and \uBC14.\r\n\r\nThe next point is
    rather subtle, and I would never have been able to articulate this without your
    responses having forced me to reflect on it. Simply put, not all strokes are equal
    when it comes to judging the harmony of form.\r\n\r\nRaph said in the Dotum sample,
    that the \u3139 seems to be leaning to the left. I would never have guessed at
    such an observation! The final (bottom-most) stroke of the \u3139 may extend an
    arbitrary amount and even touch the vowel jamo to the right, as in the \uB78C
    in the sample of my own design shown earlier. The part of the stroke which extends
    beyond the main body of the \u3139 is considered just an auxiliary stroke, so
    hangul readers won't see this as making the \u3139 lean to the left no matter
    how long it is, just as the extender of the 'h' isn't seen as making the letter
    sag downward.\r\n\r\nJohn said some of the spacing in Dotum seemed more problematic
    than in Arial Unicode in that some components visually associate more with other
    syllables. This problem, though, is a non-issue for native readers. Syllabic grouping
    in hangul is extremely regular in that the vowel jamo can only come to the right
    or below the initial consonant jamo. Readers of hangul don't need to rely on each
    letter (i.e. each syllabic block) being set apart from the rest because they already
    form cohesive visual blocks. Indeed, experiments indicate that hangul needs to
    be set quite a bit tighter than for the default spacing for fonts like Dotum and
    Batang for optimal readability. You can see in the samples above that newer typefaces
    designs have tighter spacing by default. (The older fonts are spaced looser for
    historical reasons involving full-width and half-width forms that aren't worth
    going into here.)\r\n\r\nNow, in hangul text which is spaced optimally for readability,
    you would see instances where jamo belonging to separate syllables appearing closer
    to each other than to jamo that they are actually associated with. In the combination
    \uC774\uC774 for example, the second \u3147 may be closer to the \u3163 of the
    preceding syllable than with the \u3163 of its own syllable. This is practically
    invisible for native readers of Korean; the association of the jamo into the correct
    syllabic unit is so automatic that you never notice this. I only noticed this
    when I forced myself to look at hangul from a non-native's perspective.\r\n\r\nWhat
    bothers me greatly about Arial Unicode is the width differences between \uB2E4
    and \uBC14 on the one hand and \uC950 and \uD034 on the other. The former pair
    is is much narrower than the latter. In letters with a simple vertical vowel jamo
    like \u314F and \u3163, the vertical stroke defines the right boundary of the
    width of the letter that one is trying to equalize. Compare the distance between
    the left-most point of \uBC14 and \uD034 to the vertical stroke of the vowel jamo
    in the two fonts. The small horizontal appendage of \u314F doesn't play that great
    a part in determining the overall visual width of the letter. But I can see how
    for non-native readers, this may not be the case. The designers of Arial Unicode
    probably tried to equalize the widths of \uB2E4 and \uBC14 with \uC950 and \uD034
    but gave an inordinate amount of consideration to this small stroke.\r\n\r\nFiguring
    out what strokes matter in determining the overall balance of structure is no
    trivial task, and I suspect one needs a high level of familiarity with the script
    in order to get this right.\r\n\r\nIn fact, this thread has helped me see that
    there are so many things that go into the design of hangul typefaces that Korean
    designers take for granted but are not obvious at all to non-natives."
  created: '2010-02-22 02:35:31'
- author:
    name: sketchmirror
    picture: 120455
  body: Hi, I'm also interested in designing a display type Hangul font, my question
    is more in the way of what software allows me to create a Hangul font, so that
    it is able to create the syllable blocks that Hangul uses. Would Fontographer
    be able to do this?
  created: '2010-07-30 07:12:11'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I know Fontographer has been used to create hangul fonts, but I have no experience
    with it. You might have to build the syllable blocks manually. I know some foundries
    use custom tools for this.
  created: '2010-07-30 09:37:33'
date: '2010-02-19 23:44:44'
node_type: forum
title: Hangul help

---
