---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "The Unicode Standard v5.2 has just been published, and includes revisions to
  the table of dual-joining characters that clarify the behaviour of two extended
  Arabic characters: the Farsi (Persian) <em>yeh</em> U+06CC, and the Jawi (Malay)
  <em>nya</em> U+06BD. Note that this change does not involve new characters, but
  only clarification of how these existing characters should be displayed in various
  joining conditions. This clarification is necessary, because these characters do
  not inherit dot positioning across the various joining forms. For details, see the
  table on page 16 of this PDF:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode5.2.0/ch08.pdf\r\n\r\nNote
  also joining class for the Burushaski <em>yeh barree</em> letters U+077A and U+077B,
  which was added in Unicode v5.1."
comments:
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "This introduction is remarkable and misleading:\r\n\r\n\"U+06CC arabic letter
    farsi yeh is used in Persian, Urdu, Pashto, Azerbaijani, Kurdish, and various
    minority languages written in the Arabic script, and also Koranic Arabic. It behaves
    differently from most Arabic letters, <strong>in a way surprising to native Arabic
    language speakers</strong>. The letter has two horizontal dots below the skeleton
    in initial and medial forms, but no dots in final and isolated forms.\"\r\n\r\nWhoever
    wrote this apparently never set foot in an Arab country and never read the Koran.
    Most native Arabic speakers have done both. In most Middle Eastern countries,
    any text not produced by Apple of Microsoft software still has the dotless final
    yeh - including millions of cars :-)\r\n\r\nFarsi Yeh and Arabic Yeh are also
    viable and vital regional variants and belong to be treated as such. The choice
    should be given to the user. When all Egyptian non-digital text production still
    prefers dotless final yeh, that should be given as an option. It would surprise
    no Arab if he had the choice to use or omit the dots.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.yfoto.de/en/foto/1652/0/1/license_plate%20order%3Dvalue_desc\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Egyptian_Car_License_Plate_5989.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-22 23:30:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It seems a typical example of Unicode's approach to style and language usage
    variation in the Arabic script. There are three yeh characters -- not counting
    those with different dot patterns for other languages, nor the yeh barree forms
    that are treated as distinct characters instead of style-specific forms --:\r\n\r\nU+0649,
    alef maksura, which is dotless in all positions;\r\n\r\nU+064A, yeh, which is
    dotted in all positions;\r\n\r\nU+06CC, \u2018Farsi\u2019 yeh, which is dotless
    in isolated and final position but dotted in initial and medial position.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the text you cite is suggesting that a final dotless yeh is surprising
    to native Arabic language speakers, since U+0649 is expected to be used for this
    in Arabic text. I think it is suggesting that the non-inheritance of the dot pattern
    across all joining forms of a single character is surprising. Hmm, not so surprising
    as finding a single letter encoded as multiple characters. :)"
  created: '2010-02-23 04:31:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "You are probably right, John - but only an engineer without knowledge of
    the world can put it that clumsily. UNICODE's failure to understand that dots
    are characters (and only added to the letters in Western typography, in original
    Middle Eastern type they are kept separate) is of course the real glitch in this
    argument. This Yeh story is representative. Anyone outside Unicodistan would be
    flabbergasted why a simple combination of a letter and a dot pattern gets three
    separate complex encodings - and still doesn't cover actual practice. If \"native
    Arabic speakers\" are surprised, I guess that's the reason :-)\r\n\r\nSame is
    true for Teh Marbuta. For the user it's just Heh with dots. I have had plenty
    of raw text where Heh and Teh Marbuta either randomly or systematically alternate.
    The best example is a map of Iraq where dots are only placed on Heh when the Heh
    in the place name is pronounced as Teh (in  so-called Statu Constructo)."
  created: '2010-02-23 08:56:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "It's telling that particularly Teh Marbuta alternates with Heh in a way that
    reflects the independent status of the dots. Presently UNICODE misrepresents this
    information, and as a result, a search for Nabiha \u0646\u0628\u0647\u0647 / \u0646\u0628\u0647\u0629
    or Khadija \u062E\u062F\u06CC\u062C\u0647 / \u062E\u062F\u06CC\u062C\u0629 with
    or without dots yields totally different results, in spite of the fact that they
    are clearly identical from a native Arabic speaker's point of view."
  created: '2010-02-24 11:23:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't think Unicode \u2018misrepresents this information\u2019; rather,
    Unicode is essentially agnostic about this information, just as it is agnostic
    about j being interchangeable for consonantal i in ecclesiastical Latin. A search
    for Jesu produces different results from a search for Iesu. Or, less obscurely,
    one can point out that Unicode is agnostic about e.g. \u2018organise\u2019 being
    interchangeable with \u2018organize\u2019.\r\n\r\nWhat Unicode has done is to
    make a decision about at what level to make a distinction between \u0629 and \u0647.
    I tend to agree with you that it would have been better to have made the distinction
    at a different level, i.e. not at the character encoding level, but in my experience
    regardless of where one makes the distinction the slack needs to be picked up
    elsewhere. Let's say the distinction were made at the glyph level, as a layout
    choice; then users for whom it was important to maintain the distinction, e.g.
    because they are transcribing a particular manuscript text, would be faced with
    the problem of losing this distinction in plain text interchange. As it currently
    stands, the slack needs to be picked up on the searching and collating end --
    as it needs to be for the Dutch IJ/ij letters --, which requires knowledge, time
    and resources, but once it's done it is done. The difficulty is persuading software
    makers that they need to do it.\r\n\r\nGoogle seems pretty good at things like
    regional spelling variations in English. It seems to me that if they understood
    the rules, it would be consistent with their approach to text searching to handle
    Arabic dot variation similarly."
  created: '2010-02-24 20:01:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "I agree, the Iesu - Jesu comparison cannot be handled competently by an agnostic
    system - if alone because it language or orthography-dependent. The case for Arabic
    is, however, different. \r\n\r\nIn Arabic, the difference between \u0629 and \u0647
    (both heh, with or without dots) is like the difference between \u0643\u064E\u062A\u064E\u0628\u064E
    and \u0643\u062A\u0628: (both: kataba, with or without vowels). \r\n\r\nTherefore,
    Unicode <em>does</em> misrepresent Arabic. The basic flaw is that Unicode fails
    to reflect the independent nature of the dots. [This follows European typographic
    hacks, that, unlike Middle Eastern typography by M\xFCterferrika and M\xFChendiso\u011Flu,
    creates ligatures out of combinations of archigraphemes (neutral skeleton elements)
    and dot patterns (distinctive diacritics), which then leads to excessive numbers
    of glyphs and eventually to a clamor for \"simplification\" - for all clarity,
    letters like \u0628 \u062A \u062B were in Middle Eastern typography, unlike in
    Western typography, not treated as ligatures of skeleton+dots].\r\n\r\nBecause
    Unicode today encodes \u0629 and \u0647 as separate, distinct letters, the difference
    between \u062E\u062F\u06CC\u062C\u0629 and \u062E\u062F\u06CC\u062C\u0647 (both:
    Khadija), erroneously, becomes analogous to your example of to \u2018organise\u2019
    vs.\u2018organize\u2019. But in the real world this is emphatically not the case,
    because Khadija occurs with both spellings in the same consistent corpora from
    one location, whereas \u2018organise\u2019 vs.\u2018organize\u2019 are shattered
    over different parts of the English-speaking world. It is an objective fact that
    for masses of native Arabic speakers, \u0629 can freely be substituted by \u0647
    (not vice versa), within the same area, orthography, style, you name it. I have
    observed this phenomenon also in book production (where I felt I had to correct
    it), and in bureaucratic usage.\r\n\r\nRegarding the \u0629 and \u0647 issue,
    Google follows Unicode perception and is, consequently, clueless."
  created: '2010-02-25 09:47:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tom: <em>In Arabic, the difference between \u0629 and \u0647 (both heh, with
    or without dots) is like the difference between \u0643\u064E\u062A\u064E\u0628\u064E
    and \u0643\u062A\u0628: (both: kataba, with or without vowels).</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    this variance between \u0629 and \u0647 only occurs in a final position, which
    means that at the character level these two forms are not mutually interchangeable.
    \u0629 can always be represented by \u0647, but not every instance of \u0647 can
    be represented by \u0629. I agree that this is not directly analogous to the Latin
    i/j or British/American s/z variance, which make or do not make phonemic distinctions,
    and joining analysis of Arabic text easily provides the means to determine when
    the variance is permissable, without needing language-specific spelling information.\r\n\r\nI
    entirely agree that an archigraphemic Arabic encoding with combining dots would
    be better representative of how the writing system actually works; it would also
    be more elegant and flexible. But Unicode can't be entirely blamed for the letter-based
    encoding they inherited from earlier standards. At this stage, it is all moot,
    because introducing a second encoding model on top of what they already have isn't
    a possibility, not least because of stability agreements that prevent new canonical
    decompositions of existing characters. So, as I wrote, one needs to look at where
    the slack can be and needs to be taken up, which is in things like search algorithms,
    spellcheckers, layout engines, etc.\r\n\r\nRemember, there's nothing that says
    that a character encoding model has to represent how a writing system works, let
    alone do so in a way that is optimal."
  created: '2010-02-25 17:27:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "John, of course the alternation \u0629 and \u0647 only occurs in a final
    position, because positioning of dots on heh is limited to final position. But
    the composite Teh Marbuta also occurs only in final position - and that is taken
    as a character. In spite of the fact that no grammar of Arabic ever lists it as
    a member of the alphabet. Remember, 28 letters :-) Or 29, but then hamza is added,
    another one that doesn't really count: an amphibious letter.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, I
    am not really blaming Unicode - there are far too many blessings and I have been
    a staunch supporter from day one. Let's indeed focus on weeding out the slack,
    incuding side-effects of bad analysis. As experts it's not our concern to back
    off because of stability compromises. That's not the spirit. Unicode got where
    it is now, exactly because it trashed many of such impediments, and found elegant
    alternatives.\r\n\r\nIndeed for archaic Arabic, dots must be encoded separately.
    It's impossible to encode scholarly texts without compromising them righ now.
    In Korans, dots were usually added later to manuscripts. I have some very clear
    evidence for this, including cases where a single archigrapheme gets two contadictory
    sets of dots added to it."
  created: '2010-02-26 00:48:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I agree regarding dots for archaic Arabic, but these will need to be encoded
    in a way that makes it clear that they cannot be used generatively to produce
    multi-character letters that any software would be expected to treat as equivalent
    to existing letter+dot characters. That's where stability comes in, and it isn't
    a compromise: it's a contractual agreement between Unicode and other industrial
    standards organisations (notably <a href=\"http://www.ietf.org/\">IETF</a>) that
    need to be able to rely on stability in certain areas of Unicode text processing
    in order to do what they do. Canonical decomposition is the principle area affected
    by stability agreements, because if you change character equivalences for existing
    characters you not only break existing software but you introduce security problems.\r\n\r\nThe
    Arabic \u2018pedagogical symbol\u2019 dots have been approved by Unicode, and
    are now making their way through final stage national balloting for ISO 10646
    (we, Canada, confirmed yesterday that we will be approving the revision that includes
    these characters, along with various new scripts and additional character for
    existing scripts). But, of course, these are explicitly spacing symbols, and no
    software can be expected to treat them as combining marks. Personally, I think
    the case for encoding these dots-as-symbols was very weak. The original proposer
    was pretty clearly trying to do an end-run around the letter-encoding model in
    a way that would enable a generative archigrapheme + combining dot encoding. He
    failed in this, of course, and what we're left with is a <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/66946\">confusing</a>
    set of spacing dot characters for which hardly anyone is going to find a practical
    use.\r\n\r\nIf anything, the encoding of these spacing dots will only make it
    harder to make the case for combining dots for archaic Arabic. But it needs to
    be done, and with a lot of scholarly support from experts in that field."
  created: '2010-02-26 05:27:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...of course the alternation \u0629 and \u0647 only occurs in a final
    position, because positioning of dots on heh is limited to final position.</em>\r\n\r\nRight,
    but that's a grammar rule that some software needs to learn regardless of how
    the text is encoded, displayed, searched, sorted, etc. As a grammar rule, it is
    different in kind from the ecclesiastical Latin one that says an i can only be
    written as a j when it represents a palatal approximant, but it is a grammar rule
    in the same sense. If \u0647 were encoded as a single character regardless of
    the presence of absence of dots, then it would be display software and fonts that
    would need to learn this rule. Since it is encoded as separate characters distinguished
    by the presence or absence of dots, searching and sorting software needs to learn
    this rule. As I wrote earlier, no matter how you encode something, someone, somewhere
    needs to pick up the slack that results from not encoding it in a different way."
  created: '2010-02-26 05:36:56'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>The original proposer was pretty clearly trying to do an end-run around
    the letter-encoding model in a way that would enable a generative archigrapheme
    + combining dot encoding. He failed in this, of course, and what we're left with
    is a confusing set of spacing dot characters for which hardly anyone is going
    to find a practical use.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>If anything, the encoding of these
    spacing dots will only make it harder to make the case for combining dots for
    archaic Arabic.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for the explanation. I had had the mistaken
    impression that the new additions would be combining symbols based on the original
    detailed proposal.\r\n\r\nThis is frustrating, since combining dots would be the
    obvious solution not just for archaic Arabic, but adaptations of the Arabic script
    for many different languages, including the numerous Ajami scripts for African
    languages. Is there a workable solution that would avoid introducing new canonical
    decompositions for existing characters? Other than brute-force documentation and
    encoding of all archigrapheme-dot combinations that have historically been used?"
  created: '2010-02-26 14:10:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is there a workable solution that would avoid introducing new canonical
    decompositions for existing characters?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, Unicode can simply avoid
    assigning canonical decompositions, but one is left with the security, phishing
    issue: the more ways you have to encode something that will be visually identical
    to something else in most fonts, the more security holes you open. I don't see
    a way forward with generative archigrapheme + combining dot(s) encoding for any
    modern Arabic scripted language. We need to proceed as Unicode have to date: identifying
    letters including dots and encoding them based on their joining behaviours (even
    if, as in the case of \u0629 and \u0647, this means encoding a single letter as
    multiple characters). Like it or not, its generally more important for an encoding
    model to be internally consistent than for it to be consistent with any external
    analysis of how a writing system works. Unicode has already inherited internal
    inconsistencies in the encoding of e.g. European languages with both precomposed
    and combining mark diacritics -- and, for that matter, Hangul as both jamo and
    syllables --, and we're well aware of the technical problems and inefficiencies
    that such inconsistencies produce for software and font developers. I'm pretty
    sure that there is zero interest in the UTC for introducing such inconsistencies
    for Arabic. Like it or not, Unicode's Arabic encoding is a letter/joining behaviour
    model, and will remain so.\r\n\r\nI believe combining archigrapheme disambiguators
    for transcribing archaic Arabic are something that could be encoded as such, because
    a) they can be visually distinguished from the evolved style of dots, making it
    less likely that there will be visual correspondence in many fonts (indeed, their
    classification as archaic characters means that most fonts will not support them:
    they will be specialist characters requiring specialist fonts), and b) their use
    can safely, explicitly be prevented in high-risk security situations such as URLs."
  created: '2010-02-26 18:41:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "\"...of course the alternation \u0629 and \u0647 only occurs in a final position,
    because positioning of dots on heh is limited to final position.\r\n\r\nRight,
    but that's a grammar rule\"\r\n\r\nIts not a grammar rule, it is optional use
    of dots."
  created: '2010-02-26 23:02:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "This neatly sums up the discussion: Unicode has a contractual obligation
    to maintain status quo, even though the actual solution could be a no-brainer,
    because \r\n\r\n1. It does not handle Arabic in the cultural sense, by marginalizing
    its literary legacy, and particularly the Koran,\r\n\r\n2. there are more and
    more characters added that are in fact just new combinations of the basic construction
    elements.\r\n\r\nHm. I have been am wasting my time trying to sort these challenges.
    I overlooked the contract :-)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nt\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 23:12:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Its not a grammar rule, it is optional use of dots.</em>\r\n\r\nI mean
    it is a grammar rule that this optional use of dots is limited to the letter \u0647
    in the final position."
  created: '2010-02-27 04:34:10'
date: '2010-02-22 20:25:28'
node_type: forum
title: New, Unicode 5.2 Arabic joining groups

---
