---
author:
  name: TypeSETit
  picture: 119272
body: "I've been working on one of my fonts\u2014 an update that will be available
  in OpenType. Recently, I completed a version of the same font for a client in Poland.
  She needed some of the Central European characters. After doing the work, she requested
  that I revise the <strong>[[l slash|l-slash]] (unicode 0142) </strong> because she
  said it looked too much like a lowercase T. She asked that the slash be placed high
  on the character, so I gave her what you see here, and she loved it.\r\n\r\nI personally
  think it looks wrong, but I'm not sure how to go about resolving the look before
  I release it for OpenType. I was thinking of placing the slash low on the glyph,
  but I'm not sure if that's the right way to go either. Any suggestions?\r\n\r\nThanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Have you seen <a href="http://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/intro.html">Adam
    Twardoch's Polish Diacritics</a> site?
  created: '2010-02-24 17:50:37'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Thanks Bendy,\r\n\r\nFrom what I can tell, it looks like high or low will
    work since this is a script.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 18:02:48'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: Not sure why the image didn't upload... let's try this again.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lslash_6713.png]
  created: '2010-02-24 18:10:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It looks to me like your original one would be preferable, but I'm not familiar
    with the lslash. To me at least a t is usually a bit shorter and has a horizontal
    crossbar. Hopefully someone with more experience will chime in.
  created: '2010-02-24 19:10:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If you want this script face to look like real Polish handwriting, put the
    slash at the top or even <em>above</em> the l. If you want to keep the loop, then
    I think the slash would be best above the letter; if you modify the l so that
    the loop is removed, then the slash can be near the top or above. See Adam's comments
    on script faces here:\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/download/polishhowto/stroke.html"
  created: '2010-02-24 19:29:41'
- author:
    name: Justin_Ch
  body: "I've spent a lot of time in Poland recently. The script \u0142 I have a lot
    of difficulty with is in the Spo\u0142em logo which I always want to read as a
    hybrid capital & lower case T.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spolem1_6383.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-24 20:13:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Funnily enough, she does know what the letters in her language are supposed
    to look like :-)\r\n\r\nYou have to take into account native usage.\r\n\r\nKnowing
    Greek, I get screwed up reading logos like KIA and SAMSUNG, where there is Lambda
    in place of A. \r\nBut not an issue for most Latin script users.\r\nBoth are Korean
    companies, wonder why that is.\r\nI guess the designers thought the crossbar on
    A is unnecessary, which it may well be! "
  created: '2010-02-24 20:42:45'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Not so beautiful (my handwriting):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/malel_5336.jpg]"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:04:27'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "In addition to the information on Adam\u2019s website (see Ben\u2019s and
    John\u2019s link), here\u2019s how Polish children are taught to write the <em>kreska
    uko\u015Bna</em> in the letter ew: <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4385743802/\"
    title=\"l and \u0142 \u2013 druk i pismo [print and script] by Florian Hardwig,
    on Flickr\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4385743802_fa94fb8e79_m_5814.jpg]</a>\r\nAs
    handwriting is less accurate than typography, and angled slashes and straight
    bars are hard to distinguish, the slash is shifted from its usual position at
    the vertical centre to the top \u2013 otherwise, confusion of \u2018t\u2019 and
    \u2018\u0142\u2019 is bound to happen.\r\n\r\nThis approach is well established
    \u2013\_see this copperplate example from a 1911 primer: <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/4385743614/\"
    title=\"Abecad\u0142o ma\u0142e i du\u017Ce [Capital and small letters] by Florian
    Hardwig, on Flickr\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4385743614_d2053ca5ac_5616.jpg]</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    not a hard rule though, and exceptions can be found within Polish type design.
    It depends on the nature of the script. With its long ascender, <a href=\"http://www.silesia-region.pl/strona_n.php?jezyk=pl&grupa=3&dzi=1249389234&id_menu=196\">Silesiana</a>\u2019s
    \u2018\u0142\u2019 doesn\u2019t run the risk of getting confused with the distinctly
    shorter t. That\u2019s why the slash may remain at the vertical centre here.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Silesiana_4319.png]\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:07:29'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Thank you John... \r\n\r\nYour insight is appreciated. After a bit of research,
    I still don't really know what to do with this. Ah, the great thing about OpenType,
    I can do more than one version. Here are four versions that will all probably
    remain in the final version (unless I get some special wisdom as to which one
    works best).\r\n\r\nFor context, I typed in a few other characters based on the
    samples on the page you gave me.\r\n\r\nHere are the results. Comments most appreciated.\r\n\r\nR
    L\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lslash2_6052.png]"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:16:40'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "I posted my last post without seeing all the other wonderful comments. It's
    nice to know there are folks here who are so familiar with the language. Having
    said that, JanekZ (and of course anyone else with more knowledge than I), which
    of the four latest samples would you go with, and are there any changes or modifications
    you'd make?\r\n\r\nThanks all,\r\n\r\nRL"
  created: '2010-02-24 21:21:51'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "If I'm right, the origin of \u0142 is pretty much the same as \xF1. To save
    space ll and ~ were combined."
  created: '2010-02-24 21:59:19'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Hi Robert,\r\nYour nr 3 \u0142 is quite good. Try make the stroke similar
    to the stroke in 'b' (this upper 'hook' is distracting).\r\nAlso the \u0105 could
    be better, ogonek is drawn by hand in one move (like in Ex Ponto 'g\u0142\u0105b'
    on Adam' site). The same, of course, in eogonek \u0119.\r\nRegards"
  created: '2010-02-24 22:08:44'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "I would go with the last one in your example\u2026 as well as reconsider
    the a-ogonek."
  created: '2010-02-24 22:08:56'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Ton,\r\nSorry to say, for me, it is not lslash at all..."
  created: '2010-02-24 22:18:34'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: Well, Janek, I'm not Polish, but as I understand the handwritten character
    can have the slash placed above itself, as your own examples show. So, why is
    it not laslash at all?
  created: '2010-02-24 22:29:54'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "It is a ticklish problem, it looks like \u0142 or not...\r\nThat letter is
    wide and the slash is straight, my letters are narrower and 'kreska'/slash is
    'wavy'; thats the difference.\r\nNice to see people discussing these letters.\r\nGood
    night \r\n"
  created: '2010-02-24 23:02:17'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: Ah, I see . . .
  created: '2010-02-24 23:08:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Remember that if you removed the loop, you should also make the spacing tighter
    on the right side to optically compensate. If the loop is removed, then the stroke
    should be modelled on that of your b, without a hook at the top. I would follow
    that approach, but put the slash close to the top of the letter, and make it flatter,
    like the improved Caflisch example on Adam's web page.\r\n\r\nConsider making
    the a with ogonek an non-connecting letter on the right side. Not every letter
    needs to connect to the next, and in a naturally written form the ogonek forms
    a stroke reversal off the shortened exit stroke of the a, like this (my modified
    Bickham Pro):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bickhampolish_4868.gif]\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the same applies to the other ogonek diacritic letters, with the exception
    of the o with ogonek, in which the ogonek is added as a separate stroke, not a
    reversal."
  created: '2010-02-24 23:46:18'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: Poor orphan b . . .
  created: '2010-02-25 02:05:46'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Thank you, thank you... I think I'm understanding things a little better.
    Here are graphics showing the changes I've made. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lslashes_3570.png].
    I'm not sure the looped versions are working yet. I'm curious to know what the
    preferred would be.\r\n\r\nI have also reworked the ogonek glyphs.  I'll show
    those on the next post.\r\n\r\nRL"
  created: '2010-02-25 04:10:11'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Here are the revised ogonek glyphs after receiving comments. \r\nNote that
    this is a script font that has bounce and variations in the x-height of the characters.
    And I still have a bit of tweaks to some of these forms. Letter spacing is still
    to be adjusted a bit as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe uppercase forms are also less
    conventional than usual. The I-ogonek  was especially confusing because of the
    shape of the original character glyph.\r\n\r\nI hope I'm on track.\r\n\r\nRL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek_6501.png]"
  created: '2010-02-25 04:18:38'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Robert,\r\nthank you, gooood work.\r\n2,3,4 and the ogoneks are nice now
    IMO. I think 3 culd be standard and 2, 4 alternatives.\r\nThere is a little problem
    with yours z_dot_above vs z_acute. That dot looks like upside down acute now (and
    is uncentered).\r\nBest wishes\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 08:36:10'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "In my opinion your lslash shoud look similar to Monotype Script form Adam
    twardoch's example, but with a loop joining terminal strokes (top-left with bottom-right).\r\n(Proposition
    nr 3 is acceptable but less cursive).\r\n\r\nYour zacute should have a dot, not
    a splash (as Janek wrote).\r\n\r\nIogonek looks weird."
  created: '2010-02-25 11:41:37'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_6740.gif]\r\n\r\nSomething
    like this? (Bad, fast sketch. It should be much more legible)."
  created: '2010-02-25 13:14:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Is it just me, or are those ogoneks looking a bit too light? The caps are
    a particular issue IMO, as they are so much bigger than the lowercase that they
    pretty much scream for bigger diacritics. Using the same ogonek size from the
    lowercase on the caps really doesn't seem to work in this typeface.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT "
  created: '2010-02-25 16:22:17'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Look [[http://www.kaligrafia.art.pl/galeria1.htm|here]] - bottom image in
    the word 'pozosta\u0142y'. And [[http://www.kaligrafia.waw.pl/galeria.htm|here]]
    - first image in the gallery, 2nd para in 'na ma\u0142ym'. Or [[http://kaligraf.republika.pl/index.htm|here]]
    in first menu button 'Strona G\u0142\xF3wna'.\r\n\r\n\r\nWe really like/prefer
    those wavy strokes above the 'l'!"
  created: '2010-02-25 17:25:20'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "How about this?\r\n\r\nI didn't want to just mimic what you did, Marci, so
    I took a look at the twardoch page and sort of did my own interpretation based
    on the overall look of the font. Is this something that would work?\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    again.\r\n\r\nRob[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3999.png]"
  created: '2010-02-25 18:26:38'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "<em>Is it just me, or are those ogoneks looking a bit too light? \r\n\r\nThat
    was going to be another question. I don't use these diacritics in my own native
    English language (unfortunately, the only language I speak), I am still learning
    what is copasetic and what kinds of things are definite \"no-no's.\" \r\n\r\nSince
    you brought it up, Thomas, I'm inclined to enlarge the ogonek's on the capitals.
    Thanks for confirming what I was thinking.\r\n\r\nOh man, since I got FontLab
    a week ago, and I've been on a learning tear. This is what I've needed for over
    20 years of designing mediocre fonts.\r\n\r\nRL"
  created: '2010-02-25 18:37:39'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "I am not a native of Poland, but my grandmother is and I have been much exposed
    to her handwriting over the years. I think your final samples are the most similar
    to something I would have seen in her writing. The ones at the top looked me like
    you took an American typeface and tried to make it look Polish. I think your final
    samples are much more fluent. \r\n\r\nJ. Wojtulewicz"
  created: '2010-02-25 23:09:53'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Thomas \"Using the same ogonek size from the lowercase on the caps really
    doesn't seem to work in this typeface.\"\r\n\r\nNo one word in Polish starts with
    Aogonek nor Eogonek, so to be honest, there is no chance to use these letters
    UC in a sentence. [in Polish, I didn't check: scholarly transcriptions of Old
    Church Slavonic and Proto-Slavic, Lithuanian, Cayuga, Creek, Navajo and Western
    Apache, Chiricahua and Mescalero, Tutchone, Dogrib, Elfdalian, Rheinische Dokumenta]
    BTW 10-20% could help; ogoneks UC and lc should look the same.\r\n\r\nRobert -
    the last lslash works IMO.\r\nmedicore... definitely no.\r\nRegards"
  created: '2010-02-25 23:52:28'
- author:
    name: Ton Aner
    picture: 119174
  body: "Best of luck, Robert, and do keep in mind the common (sense) variation on
    Lincoln\u2019s maxim that states that \u201CYou can please all the people some
    of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot please all the
    people all the time.\u201D"
  created: '2010-02-26 01:58:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Try modelling the shape and weight of the ogonek on the lower-left portion
    of your lowercase a. I've found this generally a reliable method to get this diacritic
    to look right (by which I mean to look like it fits naturally in the text).\r\n\r\nYour
    latest l-slash forms are very nice, and the ligated double is a nice touch."
  created: '2010-02-26 05:41:14'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Excellent job!\r\n\r\nFor sure both (UC & LC) ogoneks should have more weight,
    as they're a natural element of the letterform.\r\n\r\nBy the way, aogonek and
    eogonek can precede g and comma/semicolon, so check this, to avoid similar collision:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1_5649.gif]"
  created: '2010-02-26 08:32:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>check this, to avoid similar collision</cite>\r\n\r\nBefore actually
    reading the text, I thought of a swashed \u0105! ;-)"
  created: '2010-02-26 11:07:48'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Thank you again for all your great comments and suggestions. \r\n\r\n\r\n(1)
    I have checked, as marcin suggested to make sure that the characters preceding
    the comma and semi-colon are not crashing and they seem to be working well together.\r\n\r\n(2)
    That brought up the question in my mind, do these characters ever precede characters
    with ascenders, and if so, is it all right to let them crash so long as it is
    a clean intersection? As you can see here, the lowercase J and G do crash, but
    I think it is not necessarily aesthetically disturbing. If these characters are
    never used like this, then it's a mute point.\r\n\r\n(3) As John Hudson suggested,
    I have tried the ogonek on the left side of the lowercase A. If this is a nice
    alternative, perhaps I should consider the same for the u? I'd appreciate your
    take on this, John.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogonek2_5716.png]\r\n\r\nRob\r\n\r\n(please
    don't call me Robert... only my Momma calls me that, and that's only when I'm
    in trouble)  :)"
  created: '2010-02-26 17:32:33'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Hi Rob,\r\nplease forgive me.\r\nLetters to check: \u0119g \u0105g \u0105f
    \u0119f \u0105p \u0119p (*)\r\nYou could use these words: \u0142\u0119g, s\u0105g,
    st\u0105pa\u0107, wyst\u0119p, g\u0105go\u0142 (Bucephala clangula)\r\nAd 2 There
    is no such connections in Polish (*)\r\nAd 3 Funny letter, sorry, it is not \u0105
    ;) \r\n\r\n* to check in languages I listed above\r\nBest wishes (Jan or Janek,
    whatever)"
  created: '2010-02-26 20:34:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rob, you misunderstood me. I did not mean to attach the ogonek to the left
    side of the a, which is very wrong, but that you should base the <em>shape and
    weight</em> of the ogonek on the design of this portion of the a. Something like
    this\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aogonek_4898.gif]\r\n\r\nbut better;
    that's <em>very</em> rough."
  created: '2010-02-26 20:58:25'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "John wrote: \r\n<em>Rob, you misunderstood me. I did not mean to attach the
    ogonek to the left side of the a...</em>\r\n\r\nAhh, OK. \r\n\r\nYes, I understand,
    now.  And I've adjusted the weight and shape as you recommended.\r\n\r\nThanks "
  created: '2010-02-27 00:39:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm thinking that you'll need to find a way to move the ogonek to the left
    in order to clear a following p (a following g is more problematic in this style
    of type, and probably only solveable with a contextual variant form of the g).
    In general, you should design and attach the ogonek in such a way that it extends
    no further to the right than the tip of the exit stroke when considered against
    the angle of slant, e.g.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aogonekp_4419.gif]\r\n\r\nObviously
    this is more difficult to judge in a connecting script face, but this is another
    reason why I recommend breaking the connection between letters with ogoneks and
    following letters: it is both better representative of how the ogonek is written,
    as a stroke reversal, and enables you to coordinate the length of the exit stroke
    with the width and position of the ogonek relative to a following descender."
  created: '2010-02-27 02:22:27'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Both ogoneks appear rare (1%) in polish text, while a and e are the most
    often used letters (8-7%). Pairs \u0105f, \u0119f, \u0105j and \u0119j don't exist.\r\n\r\naogonek
    preceds c,g,p,t,z,zdotaccent\r\nletters preceding aogonek (most often): c,i,j,k,n,s\r\n\r\neogonek
    preceds b,d,g,k,p,s,sacute,t\r\nletters preceding eogonek (most often): i,j,lslash,n\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, there are no problems here.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n@ Riccard0: You can make
    a swashed ogonek, but following John's rules. Then you will get a typical barocco
    form."
  created: '2010-02-27 08:24:19'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Marcin, a f\u0105fel?? http://www.sjp.pl/co/f%B1fel\r\nThanks all"
  created: '2010-02-27 10:59:00'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Sure. But it's one word per 150.000 and \u0105f can be solved with \u0105p."
  created: '2010-02-27 14:52:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>and \u0105f can be solved with \u0105p.</em>\r\n\r\nIn many italic fonts,
    <em>\u0105f</em> will run into descender collision problems."
  created: '2010-02-27 17:12:57'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 'I know that, but the possibility of such occurency is near zero. So it''s
    rather up to a designer, to have everything cleaned up. '
  created: '2010-02-28 10:57:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lithuanian is the most ogoneky language, with u ogonek and i ogonek as well.\r\nThe
    dreaded ogonek-j sequence appears in words such as suvienyt\u0173j\u0173 and gyvenam\u0105j\u0105."
  created: '2010-02-28 17:05:55'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 'Now I understand why their ogoneks are placed much more to the center than
    ours. '
  created: '2010-03-01 07:23:30'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Ok, I'm going to ask a really stupid (but obvious to those of us who do not
    speak the languages that use the ogonek) question...\r\n\r\nHow do you pronounce
    the word, \"OGONEK\" ?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance."
  created: '2010-03-01 17:53:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Lithuanian is the most ogoneky language</em>\r\n\r\nMore than <a href=\"http://nv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Din%C3%A9_bizaad\">Din\xE9
    Bizaad</a> (Navajo)? which makes me wonder, what l-slash script shape is preferred
    for this language? Although, I'm guessing that that's not the language you're
    targeting for this typeface."
  created: '2010-03-01 18:25:41'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Not so much different from <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uendUFWnKtg">Ochmonek</a>.
    The stress is on the second syllable, AFAIK.
  created: '2010-03-01 21:28:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-01 21:34:41'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "<em>Not so much different from Ochmonek. The stress is on the second syllable,
    AFAIK.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, <strong>Ogonek</strong> is pronounced Ah-<strong>gah</strong>-nek
    ?\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd forgive me, but I'm not familiar with \"AFAIK\" ... ?\r\n\r\nRob"
  created: '2010-03-01 23:10:12'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "I find this thread to be absolutely fascinating. I'm a grad student in digital
    literacy at Arizona State University and thought I knew *everything* about fonts.
    There are so many unfamiliar terms in this thread I feel like I am in a wonderland
    of typography!\r\n\r\nThank you for clearing up the pronunciation of Ogonek. I
    have never heard/seen this term and had a difficult time pronouncing it!"
  created: '2010-03-01 23:11:52'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: AFAIK = as far as i know
  created: '2010-03-02 00:37:10'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "<em>Ahhh, <strong>AFAIK</strong>... I get it now!</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nTANX   \r\n\r\n(TANX
    = thank you)"
  created: '2010-03-02 02:38:48'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Ogohneck. Stress on the second o. O's sound like o in \"oat\". (Or to better
    explain pronounciation of o and the barred l, when tou say \"water\" - we hear
    \"\u0142oter\")."
  created: '2010-03-02 07:26:35'
date: '2010-02-24 17:45:04'
title: Polish Language    l-slash glyph

---
