---
author:
  name: Igor Freiberger
  picture: 115255
body: "<strong>Updated description</strong>: this is a contemporary serif family I'm
  working on since January 2010. It was initially just for personal use, but the project
  grow up to embrace complete Latin, Cyrillic and Greek scripts, besides phonetic
  alphabets, arrows and dingbats.\r\n\r\nIt's a text font and the family is planned
  to have several weights in roman and italic versions. I believe it will be released
  in early 2013.\r\n\r\nGoals:\r\n\r\n<strong>1</strong>. it must be suitable for
  books and magazines, with more contrast than contemporary typefaces like Meta Serif,
  Greta Text or Stuart.\r\n\r\n<strong>2</strong>. it must be clean and legible, with
  high x-height, generous counterspaces and reduced ornamental elements.\r\n\r\n<strong>3</strong>.
  it must produce a strong horizontal impression, with well defined lines like the
  ones achieved with Guardian Text, Utopia or Charter, for example.\r\n\r\n<strong>4</strong>.
  it must be adequate to academic, legal and technical texts with harmony between
  usual text, numeric data and acronyms.\r\n\r\nMany glyphs have alternate designs,
  as |a|b|f|g|q|y|W|\u0416|\u041A|. Target sizes are 9 to 32pt. Small caps are taller
  than usual. Petite caps are also included. Numbers, currency symbols and related
  signs are available in 10 variations. Palimpsest is a codename.\r\n\r\n<em>Comments
  are very welcome</em>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Historic</strong>\r\n2010.01: lowercase a-f,
  h-j, l-u.\r\n2010.02: lowercase complete, marks and basic diacrits.\r\n2010.03:
  uppercase complete, punctation, European languages.\r\n2010.04: small caps, numbers,
  non European languages.\r\n2010.05: figurine variations, bullets, dingbats, fine-tuning.\r\n2010.06:
  many symbols and additional language support added.\r\n2010.07: numbers and currencies
  in ten styles.\r\n2010.08: general revision, mathematical operators, symbols.\r\n2010.09:
  combining diacritics and precomposed glyphs.\r\n2010.10: spacing, African languages,
  dingbats, fractions.\r\n2010.11: support for many non-European languages and IPA.\r\n2010.12:
  complete revision, UPM set to 2048.\r\n2011.01: dozens of glyphs added to increase
  language support.\r\n2011.02: first Cyrillic and Greek drafts.\r\n2011.03: linguistic
  additions. Glyph naming revision.\r\n\r\n<strong>Workflow</strong>\r\nInitial lowercase
  design was made in Illustrator CS4.\r\nFurther development was done completely in
  FL Studio 5.\r\nFinal work will need FL Studio 6 due to the large number of glyphs.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tae Wong
  body: "Older account is blocked by an moderator, so you created an new account.\r\nIgor
    first created the Cyrillic and Greek sets."
  created: '2013-01-02 23:27:27'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version043_4221.png]'
  created: '2010-02-25 01:43:09'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "Igor,\r\nNice start. So far it's feeling very tight. Look very closely at
    the negative spaces in between the letters and remember to design those too.\r\nWhy
    start in Illustrator?"
  created: '2010-02-25 02:43:55'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: 'Thanks David. I''ll follow your advice and observe in detail the negative
    space. I''m designing in Illustrator because I know this app well while I''m a
    novice in FL. '
  created: '2010-02-25 03:52:18'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "While it can at times require all your patience to go from an environment
    where you are comfortable and in control\u2014to one where you are again a novice\u2014in
    this case it's worth it. Here's why: FontLab requires you to make certain decisions
    about point type and placement while drawing; the same decisions that Illustrator
    more or less makes for you. FontLab gets you in the habit of drawing glyphs using
    the simplest construction possible. This is important for making malleable glyphs
    that you can adjust as context requires, also keep in mind rasterizing, hinting,
    and interpolation should you choose to interpolate.\r\nAnother reason for using
    FontLab for drawing that isn't obvious at all until you do it, is its silent emphasis
    on thinking about type as a system of interdependence. The decisions about how
    to space a glyph are best made while the glyph is still being drawn\u2014in the
    context of the other glyphs around it. As you use it, you'll grow to appreciate
    its handling of curves, one of the prominent nice things about the software.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 15:19:20'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks again, David. You convinced me. Actually, I already tried to keep
    the vectors simple at IL, with both nodes and handles at integer positions. Handles
    are also almost all orthogonal (0\xBA/90\xBA).\r\n\r\nWhen possible, I tried to
    follow a 4x4pt grid because 4 is the minor common divisor between the two systems
    of type measure (1000x2048) and this may help a later version destined to screen
    with TT hinting. Anyway, this is just a strange idea I had, not sure it causes
    practical results.\r\n\r\nBut it must be better to do the entire job in FL for
    the reasons you did explain so clearly. As I'm a hobbyist type designer, the extra
    time FL may demand now is manageable and surely it will pays off later. Thank
    you very much."
  created: '2010-02-25 16:28:36'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nLooking very nice indeed! Cudos!\r\n\r\nI find that the lower
    and possibly upper diagonal on /k/ feels a bit too thin, especially compared to
    other diagonals. \r\nI think /x/ leans a bit too far to the right, maybe broadening
    the base to the right will fix that. \r\n/w/ stands out a bit because the middel
    part doesn't reach x-height. \r\nMaybe /,/ and the middle part of /s/ are a bit
    too heavy? \r\nThe finial on /y/ looks a bit out of the ordinary...\r\n\r\nI like
    the fact you've designed a very subtle mix of sans and serif, like in /a/ and
    /f/. It reminds me of [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/stone-informal/|Stone
    Informal]], although that's more a mix of roman with cursive. \r\n\r\nFinally,
    let me say that I admire the systematic way you have planned this project. This
    reflects on your design. I just guess you're a systematic guy!\r\n\r\nHoped to
    be of any help!\r\nKind regards,\r\nJean Paul"
  created: '2010-02-25 18:10:37'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Jean Paul,\r\n\r\nwhat an eye! You did mention exactly the glyphs more difficult
    to me, besides /g/. I'll post a new version soon and the issues you pointed will
    be addressed, although I still not know what to do with the /y/ terminal. As I'm
    avoiding round terminals, this /y/ needs a non-round shape.\r\n\r\nActually, I
    <em>try</em> to be systematic but sometimes the chaos prevails. :-)\r\n\r\nYou're
    right, this design tends to be rational and systematic. The glyphs themselves
    are not particularly beautiful as the purpose is to produce a clear and even colour.
    Now the challenge is to follow the planned agenda."
  created: '2010-02-26 02:16:05'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: "These letters go together really really well, great job on your consistency.\r\n\r\nReally
    love your the alternate /a/.\r\nThe /e/ looks a tad bit wide (mostly the top part).\r\nRight
    serif on the /f/ might need to be extended to balance it a bit.\r\nYour /r/ is
    too light for my liking.\r\nMight want to try more undershoot on the /u/.\r\nBase
    of the /t/ looks too flat. Maybe curve it up a bit?\r\nDescender on the /y/ seems
    shorter than the others.\r\n\r\nCan\u2019t wait to see some updates!"
  created: '2010-02-26 06:07:43'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version048_4022.png]'
  created: '2010-02-27 05:03:19'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Updated version, now using FontLab and with lowercase diacritics added (almost
    all already available, a few ones still need revision). All the changes in glyph
    design were small, except in the middle of /w/. I also inverted the alternates.\r\n\r\n<strong>Changes</strong>\r\n/e/
    botton curve matches /c/, top curve a bit tighter.\r\n/f/ larger right serif.\r\n/k/
    ticker diagonals.\r\n/r/ terminal and arm are thicker.\r\n/s/ central portion
    a bit thinner.\r\n/w/ higher middle, near to x-height.\r\n/x/ right upper diagonal
    repositioned.\r\n/y/ descender slight bigger, less round and using overshoot.\r\nMarks
    a bit smaller.\r\n\r\nThe PDF sample is available in the first message."
  created: '2010-02-27 05:09:33'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nHow is FontLab working for you? Is it as easy as Illustrator?
    What version are you working in? I'm seriously considering buying FontLab..."
  created: '2010-02-27 09:51:31'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "I fail to see the difference between regular /k/ and alternate /k/... Furthermore
    /w/ is missing from the alphabet. I still think the lower diagonal of /k/ should
    be heavier, as well as the arm of /r/. Try extending the lower right serif on
    /r/. /w/ is much better like this. I feel as if /t/ is too narrow.\r\n\r\nThose
    text samples, can you make them aligned to the left in stead of justified? It
    helps with looking at spacing.\r\n\r\nTo be honest, I like the alternates better
    than the regulars, but that's personal..."
  created: '2010-02-27 10:05:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Sorry! The PDF has some mistakes. It's now updated, with the correct alternative
    /k/ and text aligned to the left. I'll do more tests about the questions you pointed
    in /r/k/t/.\r\n\r\nActually, I'm always in doubt between these alternates and
    regular glyphs. :-)\r\n\r\nAbout FL, I sent you a personal message."
  created: '2010-02-28 00:31:56'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello, Igor-\r\n\r\nA formidable start. \r\n\r\nBut you should really check
    your control points after bringing your glyphs from AI to FontLab; while AI has
    pretty much limitless scale, FontLab works (by default) with 1000 x 1000 scale.
    And a shift of just one unit could look bad in small sizes.\r\n\r\nI would suggest
    you learn to draw glyphs in FontLab instead of AI.\r\n\r\nThis is just my opinion,
    and I'm pretty anal about these things.\r\n\r\nAnyway, a very nice start."
  created: '2010-02-28 00:50:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>@ Andrew:</strong> sorry, I forgot to let a public thank you, just
    sent a private message. But your kind words are very important, a great input
    for this project!\r\n\r\n<strong>@ Tomi:</strong> wow, to hear this from the man
    behind FS #1 is really great! Thank you very much.\r\n\r\nI'm still migrating
    from IL to FL. Now, part of the draw proccess is made in IL, part in FL. I still
    feel FL lacks some resources, as a way to scale design to a given measure (in
    pt, not in %). But I see this flow causes additional work and may produce errors.
    Time to take a deeper journey in FL. :-)"
  created: '2010-02-28 01:21:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nThis has a really nice feel to it. I love the style of the serifs
    and think this is going to work really well.\r\nHere are my observations, take
    with plenty of salt ;)\r\n\r\nI think the lower terminals of c and e (and perhaps
    t) are a little undecided. \r\ng looks a little wide I think.\r\nEar of g and
    arm of r (and bottom of y) could be stronger, and r perhaps wider.\r\nSome counters
    are slightly bumpy; I think this is just a matter of refining what you have rather
    than changing the shapes.\r\nI love your acute and grave! Tilde looks a little
    shallow, dieresis has the dots perhaps too wide? Cedilla isn't quite there yet.
    Comma could be a more interesting shape: something like the quotes or acute??
    I think I'd rotate the quotes slightly too.\r\n\r\nHave you started drawing the
    caps and numerals? I'd really recommend doing those before doing too much more
    on the lowercase. I find that solutions to uppercase often help resolve difficulties
    in the lowercase.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-28 19:50:18'
- body: Wow, how did you learn and create this very magnificent, elegant and glamorous
    font? It ssems you're typograph. But I'm not and won't be typograph. I'll be foreign
    languages teacher and translator and graphic designer and system analist because
    I love foreign languages and computer and Internet. I come searching and testing
    the fonts who interest more me. I'm very fanatic by fonts. You're really very
    intelligent and creative! Will you public the font on font shops sites? When?
  created: '2010-02-28 22:53:11'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks Bendy! Another great feedback.\r\n\r\nI immediately agreed with most
    of your observations. This shows how important is to have a fresh eye critisizing
    the work. After hours doing and redoing a glyph, you becomes very used to it and
    tends to think it's OK.\r\n\r\nNow I'm in a crossroads. I just began to design
    uppercases and agree it must be better to have them to solve problems already
    found in lowercases. But I'm also in doubt about the weight of the font.\r\n\r\nWhile
    designing in IL and FL, it looked OK for the regular version <em>(main stem=84)</em>.
    But the generated OT prints lighter than I want (and also is lighter in InDesign
    and PDF text samples). This difference may be due to hinting. As the auto tool
    in FL is not enough, I did manual hinting to /a/n/ glyphs with optimal results.\r\n\r\nThus
    I think the next step is to hint at least some glyphs to get real tests and then
    choose the general weight. After that, I'd create the UC set. What do you think?\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    the next update will took a while because I'm migrating the whole project to FL."
  created: '2010-02-28 23:11:21'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks for your kind words, Gustavo. Actually, this begun as a project just
    for personal use. But it's growing and may be released. Anyway, there is a large
    track until it becomes usable.\r\n\r\nAt a glance, type design seems to do with
    intelligence and creativity. But it's a highly technical work which demands a
    lot of hard work. Hinting and kerning are precision jobs made mostly by hand.
    The same about different weights.\r\n\r\nHope you manage your time in order to
    achieve all these goals. To like fonts is very useful to a translator/foreign
    language teacher because you can understand the OT resources and language support
    a font can hold."
  created: '2010-02-28 23:30:28'
- body: "Hello Freiberger! \r\n\r\n<strong><em>To like fonts is very useful to a translator/foreign
    language teacher because you can understand the OT resources and language support
    a font can hold.</strong></em>\r\n\r\nI agree with you. I always need some fonts
    for pleasing my sight. \r\n\r\nWould you give me your font family? (lol) I'm kidding
    (joking). I prefer to buy than to ask for because I know every typopgraph isn't
    generous and doesn't like to give or lend some fonts to anyone. I'm sorry for
    having said it, but I'm very reasonable. "
  created: '2010-03-01 21:10:42'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Gustavo,\r\n\r\nType designers <em>cannot</em> be generous with their work.
    They make a living from that!\r\n\r\nIt's like to ask a taxi driver to give you
    a free trip because you love his car. Or for me to ask you a free book translation
    in a near future because your translations are good and I'm a literary addict.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not a question of be generous or not, but simply to be paid by his/her work. This
    is why you'll get some adverse responses when you ask a font for free in a forum
    where most of participants are type professionals.\r\n\r\nHappily, there are lots
    of good free fonts available nowadays. Take a look on this thread: http://www.typophile.com/node/67693.
    Ex Ljbris fonts are especially good and are getting big success. You can also
    create an account at MyFonts and download good fonts for free.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    you give a good idea. I'd like to offer one style/weight of this font for free
    when (and if) it would be ready. But it's not a generous act, it's just a marketing
    plan!  :-)"
  created: '2010-03-01 22:04:24'
- body: "Hello Freiberger!\r\n\r\nGood evening!\r\nHere it's very cold and autumn
    is arriving. Wow! I love cold days and winter. Winter is very comfortable with
    me to study for university entrance exams!\r\n\r\n<strong><em>It's like to ask
    a taxi driver to give you a free trip because you love his car. Or for me to ask
    you a free book translation in a near future because your translations are good
    and I'm a literary addict.</strong></em>\r\n\r\nIf you were taxi driver and a
    woman asked you to go right to where she works, if you were in love with her,
    would you give her a free trip? (lol)\r\nAs for the free translation, 4 years
    ago, at my school, the couple searched for me at the school inspector room, they
    asked me to translate their papers into Portuguese, when I translated and finished,
    they asked me how much they might pay me, I was so generous and I told them \u2014
    they didn't need to pay me because it was a free translation, so they were only
    two papers. \r\n\r\n<em><strong>It's not a question of be generous or not, but
    simply to be paid by his/her work. This is why you'll get some adverse responses
    when you ask a font for free in a forum where most of participants are type professionals</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you, so Tomi from Suomi was very negative with me when I asked a free
    download of Neo Sans, one of my most favourite fonts. I confess I don't like or
    I'm afraid of asking the people type professional, I mean, typographic designers
    because they would be egoist and negative with me. \r\n\r\n<em><strong>Happily,
    there are lots of good free fonts available nowadays. Take a look on this thread:
    http://www.typophile.com/node/67693. Ex Ljbris fonts are especially good and are
    getting big success. You can also create an account at MyFonts and download good
    fonts for free.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nIt's true. But I don't like few right fonts
    that they offered at Best Free Fonts post. I prefer Genitium, Galette and Titilium.
    I've already created an account at MyFonts before I came here by first time. There's
    only 423 free and legal fonts at MyFonts and I've already downloaded some of them.
    Only more or less of 5 of 423 fonts are good, other less of 423 aren't good or
    are worse and ugly. At Fonts.com and Linotype.com, there's no free downloads,
    all the fonts are paid. "
  created: '2010-03-02 11:52:30'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> Only more or less of 5 of 423 fonts are good, other less of 423 aren't
    good or are worse and ugly. At Fonts.com and Linotype.com, there's no free downloads,
    all the fonts are paid.\r\n\r\nOf course. If someone has spent the time making
    a font beautiful, you should expect to pay them for their time. I'm not sure you
    appreciate the work involved in creating high quality fonts. It's not a matter
    of type designers being egotistical \u2014 fonts are their work and their value
    needs to be recognised."
  created: '2010-03-02 13:03:21'
- body: Freiberger, why didn't you answer my post?
  created: '2010-03-03 02:44:50'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Gustavo, I already said what I think about type designers to be generous.
    We don't agree on this. And it's an off-topic question.
  created: '2010-03-03 03:03:14'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: "<cite>I mean, typographic designers because they would be egoist and negative
    with me. \r\n\r\nPerhaps there is a language barrier here. I'd like to believe
    you don't actually mean what you are saying.\r\n\r\nThat said...I realize that
    this will cause a riot...but really?!?!?\r\n\r\nIf you are serious about design,
    typography and type design (!!!) you are speaking to your future peers... is this
    really the impression you want to make???\r\n\r\nWow, I've officially joined the
    ranks of annoyed typophilers. \r\nThat's what I get for being an addict."
  created: '2010-03-03 04:49:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "NEW VERSION, NOW WITH UPPERCASE ALPHABET.\r\n\r\nThe updated PDF (first post)
    shows <strong>version .065</strong> with the whole character set and also sample
    texts in various sizes.\r\n\r\nPlease note the font has no kerning by now, just
    sidebar spacing. Hinting was made with AFDK autohint tool.\r\n\r\nI'm unsure about
    some glyphs, especially /B/R/K/S/.\r\n\r\nAfter some improvement in lowercase
    and uppercase, I plan to create remanining glyphs (numbers, marks, dingbats, auxiliary
    characters, currencies, small caps and petite caps) until June. By August I hope
    to have the regular font kerned and hinted."
  created: '2010-03-22 03:28:55'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version065_4961.gif]'
  created: '2010-03-22 03:29:33'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nYou're going great here I think! I'll take a closer in-depth
    look this week. \r\n\r\nIn an earlier post you said you were struggeling with
    /y/. Last week I might have come up with a possible solution: why not make the
    terminal on /y/ like you have on /j/?"
  created: '2010-03-22 08:48:50'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nGreat job! Nice and readable.\r\n\"Comments are very welcome.\"
    So I have some doubts (the nuts and bolts ;) Your acute, Polish kreska and Hungarian
    umlaut have the same slope. I don't think that's right (in particular Polish kreska
    ought to be steeper than French acute, and French acute steeper than Czech \u010Darka).
    Hehe, what a mess...\r\nIn lslash 'slash' might be shorter (a notch) on the left
    side (your choice).\r\nOgoneks in UC Aogonek and Eogonek should be shifted left
    a bit.\r\nOgonek in lc eogonek should be shifted right a bit.\r\nBTW your ogonek
    looks somewhat anaemic;)\r\nThere are some tips here: http://typophile.com/node/66141,
    especially the last is valuable. \r\nBest wishes"
  created: '2010-03-23 01:15:09'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>@ Jean Paul</strong>: thanks again! I never thought about this /y/
    possibility. It surely deserves a try. I already made a 0.66 version with better
    /R/S/\xC6/\u0152/ and other small improvements.\r\n\r\n<strong>@ JanekZ</strong>:
    I was trying to use just one ogonek design, but this proved to be wrong. As you
    pointed, the /e/o/ connections must be different than /a/i/u/ and UC ones. Also,
    lc and UC positions and weights differ. Nothing better than a native-speaking
    to see these errors. Thanks a lot!\r\n\r\nAnd I need to learn these subtle differences
    between acute, kreska and umlaut. If the font does not becomes good, at least
    I will discover so much about diacritics. :-)"
  created: '2010-03-23 02:25:10'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "To be precise: \"I was trying to use just <strong>one ogonek</strong> design\"
    - that's OK. The only problem is in connections. Another useful thread: http://typophile.com/node/39060\r\nBTW
    you should check the design of ogoneks and theirs connections in Lithuanian and
    Native American languages...\r\nAthabaskan language studies http://books.google.com/books?id=G6J7Tki_WBcC&pg=PA349&lpg=PA349&dq=Clay+Slate+of+Navajo&source=bl&ots=Og47aDDvG3&sig=Ur0Ho13AbLkND7CAOCfoX6PNi-Y&hl=en&ei=_reoS_JaopSxBpGo3eAM&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CAwQ6AEwAg#v=onepage&q=Clay%20Slate%20of%20Navajo&f=false\r\nEnglish/Navajo
    Glossary of Legal Terms: http://www.navajocourts.org/\r\nSamples from site: http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Ogonek#Languages_that_use_the_ogonek\r\nExample
    in Polish: \r\nW\xF3\u0142 go pyta: \u201EPanie chrz\u0105szczu,\r\nPo co pan
    tak brz\u0119czy w g\u0105szczu?\u201D \r\n\u2014 Jan Brzechwa, Chrz\u0105szcz\r\n\r\nExample
    in Lithuanian: \r\nLyd\u0117dami g\u0119stan\u010Di\u0105 \u017Ear\u0105 v\u0117lai\r\nPakilo
    \u012F dang\u0173 margi sakalai \r\n\u2014 Vincas Mykolaitis-Putinas, Margi sakalai\r\n\r\nExample
    in \xC4lvdalen Dalecarlian: \r\n\"Ja, e\xF0 war \u012Fe pl\xE5g a\xF0 g\u0119slkallum,
    dar e\xF0 war slaik uondlostjyner i g\u0119slun.\" \r\n\u2014 Vikar Margit Andersdotter,
    I f\xE4bodlivet i gamla tider.\r\n\r\nDon't ask me how to pronounce these texts
    ;-)\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrz\u0105szcz\">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chrz\u0105szcz</a>,
    click \"The Polish original\"\r\n\r\nBest wishes"
  created: '2010-03-23 13:12:26'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks again, JanekZ. A lot of very precise information. Never thought ogonek
    has so many issues.\r\n\r\nWhat I mean when said just one ogonek is to have just
    one combining glyph in the font. So, I can insert it as a component in composites
    as agonek, ogonek etc. This is not possible as connections are different.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I have a remaining question: how to have a combining ogonek (Unicode 0328) to
    work generically if connections are variable? I already have uppercase and small
    caps combining diacritics, but these does not addresses the ogonek issue."
  created: '2010-03-23 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: I'll point out very quickly that on the round letters, the ogoneks are too
    far to the left and the cedillas are too far to the right. Perhaps you can slightly
    modify the shapes as well as the position to make them look more centred.
  created: '2010-03-25 13:01:45'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Version073_4684.png]'
  created: '2010-04-04 04:01:45'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Updated version <strong>0.73</strong>.\r\n\r\nMain changes:\r\n<strong>01</strong>.
    added numbers (lining, oldstyle, small caps and petite caps).\r\n<strong>02</strong>.
    included complete small caps set.\r\n<strong>03</strong>. added support to Vietnamese
    and other non-European languages.\r\n<strong>04</strong>. improved diacritics,
    especially Polish and Lithuanian ones.\r\n\r\nThe PDF now has sample texts in
    English, Portuguese, German, Spanish, French, Dutch, Polish and Finnish.\r\n\r\nThe
    numbers still need a lot of adjustment \u2013their stems aren't normalized and
    doesn't fits well by now. I changed the connections to ogoneks, especially in
    /A/. Some characters are still lacking, as Schwa or Pinyin translitaration glyphs.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to hear about the general feeling the font has. Is it consistent? Are the
    stems adequate when upper and lowercase are side-by-side?\r\n\r\nI plan to add
    four other weights, one lighter than this and three bolder. Each one will have
    its own bold, italic and bold italic styles. So the family will actually holds
    10 weights in five subfamilies. Many months of work to go.\r\n\r\nPlease be aware
    this version still has no kerning.\r\n\r\nAnd a special thanks to JanekZ and Jongseong
    for the observations."
  created: '2010-04-04 04:08:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "This looks lovely. \r\n\r\n\u2022 The 'a/A-ring-acute' isn\u2019t really
    necessary. \r\n\u2022 The 'a' bowl in your '\xE6' looks a little wierd to me.
    Have you considered letting the inner counter follow the 'e' curve instead?\r\n\u2022
    I really like the looks of your lowercase 'g', but I keep thinking it might benefit
    from a little more air in between the eye and the tail."
  created: '2010-04-04 15:50:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Frode. It's always amazing to hear from native speaking about the
    glyphs I don't know very well. Here is an /ae/ update, what do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Update_ae_3427.png]"
  created: '2010-04-04 18:31:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ae_5329.png]\r\nA crude example, but
    I\u2019m talking about something more like this. "
  created: '2010-04-05 16:33:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks again! Now I get exactly the criteria.
  created: '2010-04-05 22:42:04'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I did post a new PDF. Now the version is 0.85, with 10 figurine variations:
    lining, oldstyle, small caps, petite caps and uppercase, each one in proportional
    and tabular sets.\r\n\r\nNumbers plays an essential role in this font (as already
    said in the first post). It's my aim to keep an even and horizontal effect. Actually,
    I believe numbers are distracting in most fonts. Lining figurines tends to be
    very tall and oldstyle tends to seem misaligned in a technical text with large
    number and acronym usage.\r\n\r\nI changed the /r/ terminal and begun to include
    ligatures. There are also arrows, bullets and asterisks. Punctuation is complete
    and varies to uppercase and small caps. I also included an alternate /3/.\r\n\r\nPetite
    caps are incomplete so they are not in this specimen. Still lacking: some dingbats,
    chess figurines, swashes and indexes (negative type inside geometric contour).\r\n\r\nThis
    version is still unkerned. This will be the last job, to be done in June.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 10:03:31'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "An online flash demo is available at [[http://if.pro.br/font/|this page]].\r\nIt's
    still somewhat crude sample, but it gives an idea."
  created: '2010-05-11 04:47:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think the alternate g could be braver. The gap in the tail will disappear
    too much.\r\nOtherwise this is looking great, I don't have any more suggestions
    for the moment! :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 10:33:15'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thank you very much, Bendy. I changed a bit the alternate /g/.\r\nI'd appreciate
    any comment about the lining numbers and the alternate /g/ set:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Numbers_3560.gif]"
  created: '2010-05-16 20:04:37'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I'd like to hear from Typophilers about these special characters (basically,
    Vietnamese diacritics and some European ones I don't know very well). There are
    also /m/+candabrindu, two ampersands and some others.\r\n\r\nYou can see a large
    set of this characters, including all Vietnamese ones, in a new PDF I included
    in first post (Especials.pdf).\r\n\r\nThe regular weight will be ready late June.
    I plan to release a <em>free basic</em> version at MyFonts in early July (this
    is, with just the basic Western 256 characters). What do you think?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Especials_3818.gif]"
  created: '2010-05-16 20:10:18'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Well done on your hard work, that's all I'd like to add.
  created: '2010-06-11 19:19:27'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "If you add U+0331 Combining Macron Below and make it work with lowercase
    g then I\u2019ll be your friend for life. The Tlingit orthography requires K,
    k, X, x, G, and g with U+0331 and there are precious few fonts that support that
    diacritic in any reasonable way. I note you\u2019ve got U+1E34 Latin Capital Letter
    K with Line Below and its lowercase counterpart. Those, along with the other characters
    \u201Cwith Line Below\u201D decompose into the base Latin forms and U+0331. U+0331
    gets used in a few other Native American orthographies, like in Kwak\u02BCwala
    (n\xE9e Kwakiutl) and Coast Tsimshian where it occurs below A and a.\r\n\r\nThe
    lowercase h with circumflex and with caron could have alternate forms where the
    diacritic is shifted to the right and lowered so that it sits above the leg like
    the dot above. You could use the caron and circumflex for lowercase since it is
    narrower.\r\n\r\nDo you plan on implementing IPA at some point? If you do, let
    me know and I can advise. As a linguist I\u2019m a daily user and I\u2019ve seen
    a lot of poor designs for IPA letters.\r\n\r\nIf you implement U+0332 Combining
    Low Line then make sure that adjacent pairs connect to each other. It\u2019s supposed
    to be a textual equivalent of underlining. It should *not* act like U+0331 and
    be independent. It\u2019s amazing how many font designers seem to have completely
    ignored the quite explicit instruction in the Unicode standard: \u201C\u2022 connects
    on left and right\u201D.\r\n\r\nHope to see more soon! Doing the all the Latin
    diacritics is somewhat of a thankless job, but I assure you that people like me
    really do appreciate good work."
  created: '2010-06-19 23:57:39'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>1985</strong>: thank you very much.\r\n\r\n<strong>James</strong>:
    your input is very valuable. I have interest to include correctly designed glyphs
    for many languages, but most of them are unknown for me.\r\n\r\nActually, I first
    planned to include just Western and Central European support. Then I begun to
    understand these diacritics from Polish, Welsh, Sami and so on. Later I begun
    to include more and more language support, as Latin Azerbaijani, Qu\xEDchua and
    African, besides extensive Maths symbols. Now I'm considering if the font will
    have Greek and Cyrillic. It never stops!  :-)\r\n\r\nU+0331 and U+0332 are already
    in the font. U+0332 is made from underline so its length must be OK. I know these
    combining diacritics needs to be positioned with GPOS, but this is still obscure
    to me.\r\n\r\nHow must the macron bellow be positioned with g? I made a try:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g0331_4958.png]\r\n\r\nI
    saw a font with an OT feature to replace combining diacritics + glyphs with precomposed
    glyphs. Is this useful for linguists? Which combinations must be replaced to avoid
    bad diacritical positioning? Any advice on this is very welcome.\r\n\r\nI'll surely
    include these alternates you suggested.\r\n\r\nIPA is not planned, but I'm open
    to ideas in this area. If I add this, must I include all glyphs from the Unicode
    IPA table?\r\n\r\nActually, IPA and all these languages support makes sense just
    if the overall design is handsome and legible \u2013 and I still unsure if this
    font will become good enough to a commercial release. Although it seems a fair
    idea to add another option to the field, this must be a very well done option
    \u2013otherwise it will be better to use other available fonts.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again. Further comments woud be very much appreciated.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-20 01:57:05'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "The macron should be positioned below the bottom of the lower bowl, and it
    should not touch the descender at all. It may have to stick out below the lower
    boundary of the font, but people who need diacritics below letters with descenders
    will need greater leading anyway so usually overlap with following lines isn\u2019t
    a problem. The version you\u2019ve shown is instead appropriate for U+10E5 Latin
    Small Letter G with Stroke which doesn\u2019t involve a macron below.\r\n\r\nA
    problem with U+0331 that many fonts have is that the diacritic is not the same
    distance from the baseline as it is in the \u201C... With Line Below\u201D characters.
    The two are supposed to be canonically equivalent according to the Unicode standard,
    so the diacritic should look exactly the same whether it\u2019s part of a precomposed
    character or whether it\u2019s added to some base character. Since U+0331 is a
    horizontal line it\u2019s very striking when the distance from the baseline is
    different from one letter to the next, as in <a href=\"http://img205.imageshack.us/i/screenshot20100620at185.png/\">this
    example</a> of Mac OS X\u2019s current versions of Palatino and Times Roman as
    well as Victor Gaultney\u2019s Gentium which gets it right. (The screenshot was
    taken from Mac OS X\u2019s TextEdit.) The example also shows where the macron
    below should appear beneath the lower bowl of the lowercase g.\r\n\r\nIf you implement
    IPA you should definitely do all of the symbols in the IPA extensions block, as
    well as the spacing modifier letters and the combining diacritical marks. The
    diacritics need to be tested for positioning with every IPA symbol. Check the
    <a href=\"http://archive.phonetics.ucla.edu/Language/ipa-pop-up-2.html\">IPA chart</a>
    to see how the basic diacritics are used, but note that any symbol can have more
    than one diacritic depending on the narrowness of the transcription. You don\u2019t
    really have to worry about the ligating tone letters (U+02E5 ... U+02E9), people
    who want them will use one of the SIL fonts (Doulos SIL, Charis SIL). I recommend
    not doing any of the \u201COverlay\u201D diacritics since they\u2019re not supposed
    to be used according to official Unicode doctrine. You might just use the spots
    as placeholders for the overlay glyphs used in constructing other characters.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to do a really good job on diacritics with Latin letters and phonetic
    transcriptions, I recommend looking at the three fonts from SIL, namely Gentium,
    Doulos SIL, and Charis SIL. Those serve as great examples of how to properly handle
    a wide variety of diacritics in different combinations for a very large repertoire
    of languages and transcription systems. The requirements are quite different from
    ordinary European orthographic needs, and the SIL fonts are carefully designed
    to fit the needs of linguists and many minority language orthographies."
  created: '2010-06-21 23:00:06'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "I forgot to mention that IPA also requires a couple of lowercase Greek letters.
    The absolute necessities are U+03B2 Greek Small Letter Beta, U+03B8 Greek Small
    Letter Theta, and U+03C7 Greek Small Letter Chi. Other ones that get used frequently
    in linguistics are uppercase and lowercase gamma, uppercase and lowercase delta,
    uppercase and lowercase pi, uppercase theta, uppercase and lowercase sigma, uppercase
    and lowercase omega, lowercase alpha, lowercase lambda (counterpart to U+019B
    Latin Small Letter Lambda with Stroke), and lowercase rho.\r\n\r\nThe \u201Cwith
    Palatal Hook\u201D letters in the Phonetic Extensions Supplement are not used
    anymore, but they may be necessary for quoting older linguistic work. The superscripts
    in that same block are definitely in use, as are the diacritics in the Combining
    Diacritical Marks Supplement just afterwards."
  created: '2010-06-21 23:15:27'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Hey Freiberger!\r\n\r\nAs you're specialist in Law, please visit my topic
    at my track, click in \"Why do the clients have pleasure in violating the EULAs'
    rules?\" and give me your opinions.\r\n\r\nYour font is very elegant, legible
    and modern. Are you Brazilian? I know Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, they're fabulous
    cities. Rio de Janeiro is like San Francisco, Los Angeles and Miami and Sao Paulo
    is like New York and Tokyo.\r\n\r\nDo you like soccer? I was so admired when I
    saw Brazil wininng very well North Korea and Cote d'Ivoire at the FIFA World Cup
    2010 site. \r\n\r\nAs you are Brazilian and have the most beautiful serif font
    of all the serif fonts, the Brazilians and Brazil must be proud of you, and America,
    Europe and Latin America will recognize Brazilians are very creative in arts and
    culture. \r\n"
  created: '2010-06-22 02:57:36'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>James:</strong> thanks again for these valuable informations!\r\n\r\nIt
    seems the only case of macron-bellow-descender is |g|. My solution for this issue
    is to create a precombined glyph with properly postioned macron bellow and then
    to add a line of OT code to replace g+uni0331 with the precombined g. In some
    languages, to type g+uni0331 could produce the uni10E5, so the code must declare
    which languages to consider.\r\n\r\nCould you help me on this indicating the languages
    where g+uni0331 is used? I know almost nothing about Native North American languages.\r\n\r\nIPA
    is definetively an idea to follow. I'll consider your orientations and also take
    a close look at SIL fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>Important:</em> as a lingusit, do you consider
    the design of characters and diacritics is good enough?\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\n<strong>Kevin:</strong>
    thanks for your kind words, but I disagree with you about this being the most
    beautiful serif font here. Minion, William Caslon, Utopia, Novel, Stuart and Collis,
    to name few ones, are far superior than mine. But it's very nice to hear you like
    it.\r\n\r\nAbout Brazilians, I think we are creative but still have a long way
    to build some typographic tradition (with some notable exceptions, as Cruz's work
    and the Intellecta Design from Paulo W). About the cities, I prefer smaller ones
    \u2013like Curitiba and Porto Alegre. SP and Rio are very huge!\r\n\r\nI'll answer
    your topic about EULA and piracy."
  created: '2010-06-22 05:48:24'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Your solution to g + U+0331 sounds good to me. However, I do not suggest
    having U+10E5 be related to g + U+0331. The Unicode specification does not say
    that U+10E5 should decompose to anything. Having it be produced by some other
    combination would thus violate the intent of the specification.\r\n\r\nI didn\u2019t
    review all the orthographies of all the languages of the world, which would be
    an enormous task that I would never complete. :) But I did look at several orthographies
    in the Pacific Northwest of North America which I know use underscore diacritics
    in their orthographies. Here\u2019s a list of those letters which occur with such
    diacritics:\r\n\r\nTlingit (Revised Popular orthography): GgKkXx\r\nHaida (Alaskan
    orthography): GgKkXx\r\nCoast Tsimshian: AaGgKk\r\nNisg\u0331a\u02BCa: GgKkXx\r\nGitksan:
    GgKkXx\r\nKwak\u02BCwala (U\u02BCmista orthography): AaGgKkXx\r\nSquamish: KkXx\r\nThompson
    (Bouchard orthography): GgG\u0313g\u0313KkXx\r\nSenchothen (SEN\u0106O\u0166EN):
    KNWX\r\n\r\nDakelh (aka Carrier) also uses underscore diacritics, but because
    it uses them in combination with digraphs it benefits from the U+0332 Combining
    Low Line which is specified by Unicode as connecting between letters. Dakelh has
    the following with U+0332: Dz dz S s Ts ts Z z.\r\n\r\nThere may be other languages
    in North America where underscore diacritics are used, but the concentration of
    use is definitely in the Pacific Northwest.\r\n\r\nIn practice people seem to
    be confused between U+0331 and U+0332, with some people using the latter where
    they should probably be using the former instead. With time this will probably
    sort itself out, but it is best to support both. When one uses U+0332 I would
    imagine that it would be better to have the underline run <i>through</i> the descender
    of the g rather than below it, following the Unicode specification that the U+0332
    connects between adjacent glyphs. This dissimilar behavior would help users realize
    the difference between the two diacritics, which otherwise appear quite similar.\r\n\r\nSo
    far, I\u2019d say that the diacritic designs look pretty good so far. It would
    be helpful to see them used in the context of a few texts in various languages.
    You could look at the proof sheets for Huronia from Tiro Typeworks for some examples."
  created: '2010-07-11 22:52:18'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thank you very much, James. All the languages you list will be supported
    as I'll include the needed diacritics for them \u2013especially the g+uni0331.\r\n\r\nI'm
    doing the roman weights by now. There are seven regular weights and seven related
    bolds. So it will be a family with 14 weights. Because of this I did not post
    any new sample for a while.\r\n\r\nThe task is somewhat huge and I also included
    support for African languages which use Latin script. So (at least for the first
    font version) I decided not to include Cyrillic or Greek. IPA is still possible,
    let\xB4s see if I have enough energy for it.\r\n\r\nI believe within a month I'll
    have enough material to post samples of these weights and also more examples in
    many languages \u2013something between 140 and 160 would be supported, all Latin-based
    scripts."
  created: '2010-07-12 14:36:26'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "<strong>Hi Freiberger!</strong>\r\n\r\nVery good gob! It works great on text,
    congrats :)\r\n\r\nSome things I see:\r\n\r\n- \"g\" in text i find it weard that
    the upper ring is that small, I would make the ring bigger, becouse the white
    space of your letterforms are pretty big. Besides, it feels funny that the tail
    eye is bigger than the ring eye.\r\n\r\n- \"f\" the version without serif feels
    weard, I think you can make the top curve more like the \"j\" or \"t\"\r\n\r\n-
    \"acutes\" might be kind of thin and to the left, but to affirm that I'd have
    to see it printed.\r\n\r\n- Like the \"k\"!\r\n- \"s\" perfect.\r\n- \"g\" alone
    is perfect.\r\n- \"y\" love that serif!\r\n- Nice numerals!\r\n\r\nCongrats on
    all that signs, \r\nI'll be checking them soon.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2010-07-31 18:49:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thank you very much, Fernando.\r\n\r\nTop curve of f is one of my doubts
    since the beginning. I did several experiences but not used the same curve from
    t until now \u2013actually, f follows a and n curves. It deserves a try.\r\n\r\nYou
    made a very interesting observation about g; I will also do more tests on this.\r\n\r\nAbout
    acute and grave, I see there are two styles of positioning, both found in several
    fonts. Some designers made they almost centralized in relation to the letters,
    like in Meta. This is the more common criteria. Other prefers to dislocate the
    diacritic toward its own direction, as in Minion. The second approach is very
    characteristic in Slimbach's fonts.\r\n\r\nWorking on texts with many accented
    characters, as in Portuguese, I find the second style much more appropriate than
    the centralized one. The accent becomes more organic, with a kind of flow coherent
    to its direction. Accents in Meta, for example, seems rigid and heavy \u2013especially
    in A, which works terribly.\r\n\r\nAnyway, accents were revised and the sample
    available now still does not show the improvements I made. I'll add new samples
    soon and hope the acute will be a bit better."
  created: '2010-08-01 19:58:58'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "In [[http://www.typophile.com/node/72819|another thread]] you asked about
    the glyph-set needs for specialized academic typesetting. Here is one area that
    I have some experience with.\r\n\r\nFor ancient Roman epigraphy, you need most
    of a basic Latin alphabet, both uppercase and lowercase with dots underneath.
    Most diacritical forms do not need dotted equivalents, but the vowels with acute
    accents do (albeit rarely). Usually this is done in roman type, but I've seen
    it with italic also. I think (in terms of software compatibility with the feature)
    this can now all be done with the combining dot under (U+0323) and mark placement,
    although some of them are visually equivalent to characters in the Latin Extended
    Additional block. You also need the ancient symbols block (U+10190 to U+1019B),
    the old forms of Roman numerals (U+2180 to U+2188, and probably the rest of the
    Roman numerals in Unicode for compatibility), and some miscellaneous letters in
    Latin Extended-D (U+A7FB to U+A7FF) and elsewhere (U+2132, U+214E, U+2C75, U+2C76).
    For at least the lower Roman numerals (I, V, X), and possibly all of them, you
    need two forms, with and without overscores. People also use a plethora of different
    shapes of brackets, including some that resemble U+02F9 and U+02FA (but functioning
    as brackets rather than as tone markers). Finally, it is sometimes important to
    note reversed letters, so a reversed (flipped right-to-left) Latin alphabet would
    also be useful. No doubt I'm forgetting some important things, but this gives
    you the highlights.\r\n\r\nSince you aren't including Greek, you don't have to
    worry about all the additional glyphs you would need for ancient Greek epigraphy!\r\n\r\nNow
    I honestly do not think this is worth your time from a commercial point of view.
    This is a very specialized topic. If you produced a typeface with really good
    coverage for Latin epigraphy, you <em>might</em> sell an extra 5 or 10 licenses,
    but that wouldn't pay for the time it would require to make all those glyphs.
    Also, for topics like ancient history publishers generally prefer typefaces that
    are what might be called \"updated old-styles\", such as Sabon and Minion, rather
    than more contemporary styles such as your design."
  created: '2010-08-06 23:35:13'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thank you very much, David. Your information is very valuable. I need to
    know about these glyphs in order to decide if they must be included or not \u2013and
    your message helps a lot on this.\r\n\r\nActually, I don't think this font family
    would sell more than 1-2 licenses each month. There are so much options these
    days and it's hard to get good exposure. But I'd like to turn this font a real
    solution for those who will be using it. Anyway, maybe the scope needs to be a
    bit tighter.\r\n\r\nI'll soon post a new sample."
  created: '2010-08-09 18:39:16'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: The aogonek is far better then eogonek, which is too fat at the joint (v.
    085).
  created: '2010-09-04 08:12:31'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thansk again, Marcin.  I changed ogonek the way you suggested. A new version
    is underway with hundreds of new glyphs and improvements.
  created: '2010-09-06 08:50:11'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: "Hey Igor,\r\n\r\nAnything exciting coming up from the Palimpsest Project?
    This might sound strange, but I've been so excited to see this released since
    I first posted back in February. I really hope you publish it because I can see
    it being an amazing text face (it already is!). I'm hoping to use it someday to
    set a book of my brother's short stories. I can't pinpoint why I'm so attracted
    to this typeface, but I think it's very very great.\r\n\r\nSidenote: I noticed
    you're from Porto Alegre, so I have to ask... are you a fan of Internacional or
    Gr\xEAmio? Or not a big football fan?"
  created: '2010-09-18 15:04:44'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Hi Andrew. Your message is a great spur to me.\r\n\r\nActually, the project
    is running normally during all this time. But I did not post new PDFs because
    I still need to complete the language support \u2013and don't want to show an
    incomplete result.\r\n\r\nLet me explain: I decided to make this font support
    all languages which use Latin script. This is a huge task as it includes all Unicode
    blocks for Latin, besides some IPA glyphs. There are also many glyphs outside
    Unicode so I did some research about less known languages and its alphabets.\r\n\r\nAs
    I included petite caps and swashes, each character has five glyphs \u2013uppercase,
    lowercase, small caps, petite caps and swash. Thus, the project is going far away
    the 3,000 glyphs with support for more than 200 languages and transliterations
    schemas. This is still under construction.\r\n\r\nBTW, some other parts are complete.
    All glyphs already made in June were revised and improved. Numbers and associeted
    figures Punctuation varies accordingly to case and is complete. Arrows, bullets,
    chess figures and Roman numerals are also ready. Ornaments, dingbats and enclosed
    numerals are 40% OK.\r\n\r\nI still not decided if IPA and APA will be supported
    in the first version.\r\n\r\nThank you very much for your kind message. It will
    be a pleasure to know you used this font to lay out your brother's book. Hope
    the font plays as good as you expect.\r\n\r\n<em>Sidenote:</em> my team is Internacional,
    reigning Champion of South America. It seems you like soccer a lot to know about
    our local teams!"
  created: '2010-09-20 22:18:16'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I uploaded a new PDF sample just to give an idea about actual development.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amostra0968_4262.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-21 00:48:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Just a little note to say I'm very excited to see the progress here. Can't
    give a full crit right now but let me come back to you in a couple of weeks. Keep
    it up!
  created: '2010-09-21 05:57:24'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Igor,\r\nTo anwser your 'hidden' message, I don't think $700 (\u20AC525)
    is much at all, perhaps even cheap! You've probably checked out some prices at
    MyFonts, but compared to, let's say [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/ourtype/versa_versa_sans_family_otf_pro/|Versa]]
    which contains 'only' 740 glyphs, it's still cheap. Versa is \u20AC955 ($1.275)
    and consists of 20 fonts, not 28."
  created: '2010-09-22 11:06:11'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Bendy. I'm very glad to know about your interest. In a couple of
    weeks I'll have interesting news to post.\r\n\r\nJean Paul, you found my \"subliminal
    message\"! Nice. Probably, this font family will be priced some point between
    US$600 and US$800 (a bit higher if I include IPA/APA). I actually think it has
    so many features the price could be higher, but thus it would become hard to sell
    licenses."
  created: '2010-09-24 15:29:40'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "Hi,Freiberger, how are you fine? I am looking forward for the great release
    to public your project. Between, like always, can you take a look in my first
    project to make a \"sans-serif\" here http://typophile.com/node/75053 ?\r\n\r\nI
    am doing a \"sans-serif\" because the serif fonts are things to genius like you..."
  created: '2010-10-14 21:04:42'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Hahaha! Nice joke, Paulo. But I think large serif families are things to
    mad people, not genius.  :-)\r\n\r\nI was out of type business for some days,
    so it took so long to post comments about your new sans. It promises a lot. I
    also must congratule you for the much awaited Penabico release."
  created: '2010-10-17 23:56:25'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Nice pic, Igor ;-)
  created: '2010-10-18 08:50:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hey Igor, this is looking great. I love the way you're making such an effort
    to get all these uncommon glyphs correct. \r\n\r\nI'm looking at Version 085.
    Here are some questions...I'm not familiar with some of these but here's what
    strikes me:\r\n\u2022 The curves on cedilla look a little loose...I'd make it
    more like the bowl of 5. You're definitely more familiar with this one than me
    though.\r\n\u2022 /hcircumflex/ did you see the thread <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/68302\">here</a>?
    It looks like the diacritic may be too close to the stem?\r\n\u2022 /iacute/ and
    /jjacute/ diacritic is sliding off?\r\n\u2022 Dots of dieresis look widely spaced.\r\n\u2022
    /ohorn/ is the horn big/dark enough?\r\n\u2022 /Thorn/ has a different bowl to
    /P/?\r\n\u2022 Bar of /Tbar/ is quite high?\r\n\u2022 /Khook/ looks a bit hungry,
    like it's overstretching the arm to grab the next letter...would it be appropriate
    to bring in that arm slightly to rebalance?\r\n\u2022 Similar thing with /Uhorn/;
    I'd shorten the right serif to bring the horn into balance, I think.\r\n\u2022
    Any chance of including yogh, hwair and wynn? I don't know why, but they might
    be fun to draw :)"
  created: '2011-01-16 17:41:52'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Bendy, as usual your observations are very precise and wise. Thank you very
    much!\r\n\r\nRight now, diacritics are under final revision and the problems you
    saw may be corrected soon. I also added variations for many diacritics, as dieresis
    and macron narrower for |i|j|f|l|t|, underline to match each base glyph and different
    sets for lc, UC, small caps and petite caps.\r\n\r\nKhook needs additional work
    not to be confused with a backhoe. Hope the next version fix it. I'll also take
    a close look at horn.\r\n\r\nHwair, wynn and yogh are already in the font:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yogh01_5077.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>More
    weird glyphs: Hwair, Wynn, Yogh, Insular G, Insular F, Tresillo.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I'm not a good designer, these glyphs took some time to draw \u2013and I'm still
    not sure if they don't need an overall revision. Lowercase are also present:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yogh02_4974.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>The
    same in lowercase set.</em>\r\n\r\nLowercase thorn uses p as base, but Thorn has
    a different build. I don't remember if Tbar suffered changes since version 0.85.
    This is how it is by now:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tbar_5433.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>T
    bar and Thorn.</em>"
  created: '2011-01-16 22:47:44'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I\u2019m not sure about your insular G/g. In the samples I\u2019ve seen,
    the lower part would never seems so o-like. I think the shape of the hook should
    be more of a s, and, most of all, it should start at the (left of) centre and
    not a the right. But surely Mr. Everson (http://www.typophile.com/user/6281) could
    give more informed advice."
  created: '2011-01-17 10:25:46'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Cool! I was thinking the Thorn might need to have the same bowl as the P.
    I like the current form but it might look a bit too Cyrillic?\r\n\r\nI also think
    the insular g could be tweaked. <a href=\"http://www.evertype.com/standards/wynnyogh/ezhyogh.html\">This
    page</a> shows some examples near the bottom. There are also some yoghs there,
    I think the central beak needs to slope downwards a bit more...it's a weird shape
    and yours looks a bit like a 3. \r\n\r\nAlso, where did you get the idea for the
    Wynn to descend? I haven't seen that before.\r\n\r\nOne other possible glyph is
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vend_%28letter%29>Vend</a>, which I hadn't
    heard of before getting obsessed with arcane letters."
  created: '2011-01-17 11:26:43'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: Maybe "H" needs to be wider. Give it a try maybe.
  created: '2011-01-17 12:24:10'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I was lucky to show insular G here. Thanks to your observations I could avoid
    a terrible design (it was based on Unicode table, which I learnt has bad examples
    of insular glyphs). After your notes, it could be improved a lot.\r\n\r\nThe same
    with wynn. I enhanced its belly and keep the angled descent just for lowercase.
    There are some fonts with this kind of descender, but the uppercase seems better
    with the traditional straight serifs.\r\n\r\nYogh is still 3-like, but its much
    more inclinated now. Top segment is not straight anymore. Other glyphs were also
    updated. Some are in this small sample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/various_3611.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Insular
    G and other unusual glyphs, updated version.</em>\r\n\r\nAbout vend, it will not
    be included in version 1.0. The mediavalist segments of Unicode blocks were left
    for a future version. Although there are lots of very interesting glyphs there,
    it's so much work and I want this font not to be an <em>opus posthumous</em>.
    ;-)\r\n\r\nSo, thank you very much, Riccardo and Bendy.\r\n\r\nDusan (tourdeforce),
    thanks for you point about H. I narrowed it in a recent revision but it may gone
    very far and now needs a small adjust. I'll do text print tests to be sure how
    would be the ideal size.\r\n\r\nJust to add one more sample, these are the lowercase
    alternates in definitive design (well, sort of):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alt01_4977.gif]"
  created: '2011-01-21 00:43:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I want this font not to be an opus posthumous. ;-)\r\n\r\nHah, yes, that's
    a good point.\r\n\r\nAbout the alternates...the /b/ and /q/ with spurs especially
    are very nice and if you're running out of space I think you could be more selective.
    I guess it's a matter of testing in body text at different sizes."
  created: '2011-01-21 09:38:50'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 Unicode table, which I learnt has bad examples of insular glyphs</cite>\r\n\r\nUnicode
    tables have much more bad glyphs than just insular ones.\r\n\u201CWe encode characters,
    not glyphs\u201D  :-)\r\n\r\nI second Ricardo\u2019s comment on the insular g\u2019s
    bowl. The capital of it is much more better by now. Mind the weight distribution.\r\n\r\nvend:
    the bowl may be more slender.\r\ninsular f: still a bit narrow\r\ntresillo: upper
    part a bit stiff\u2026  look at c.\r\nThat crossing at the Tresillo disturbes
    me. I just gave it the glyph of 0190.\r\nThorn: well, a more P-like bowl may be
    better in the end.\r\nuncial T: weight distr. of the round part: the gravity might
    lay a good deal lower.\r\nCapital Yogh looks quite good.\r\n\r\nFinally allow
    me a general remark. Have you ever done writing exercise with a broad nib pen
    \u2026? If not, give it a try. You\u2019ll find it will help *tremendously* with
    candidates such as insular whatsoevers, tresillos, quirkstrokethroughs, weirdturnarounds
    \u2026\r\n\r\nEnjoy it."
  created: '2011-01-21 10:59:25'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I really like the overall feel of the font. Seemsa like this really has a
    great deal of potential, however, there are a number of things that bother me.
    I'm no pro, so feel free to ignore my comments. Although I see you're already
    pretty far in the design process I noticed a couple of things in the lc, which
    I want to share.\r\n\r\nThe curve at the top of the bowl in /a/ is not smooth.
    It looks as if there's a straight part in it. I think it will look better if you
    take away the in-between nodes and extend the control points at the top towards
    the left.\r\n\r\nThe c seems about to fall to the right. I think you should higher
    the top-right part and maybe also move it to the left a bit.\r\n\r\nI think the
    finial in /e/ is too short.\r\n\r\nThe f is original, but adding a serif to the
    top would probably be better for legibility\r\n\r\nThe eye of g seems a little
    too dark to me\r\n\r\nThe top of t looks fragile. Perhaps move the node at the
    very top to the left?\r\n\r\nThe serifs on the inside of x are probably too 'smooth'
    to stop ink from filling the space between the serifs and the diagonal strokes.
    The serifs on the capital X look better to me.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure about the flat
    bottoms of v w V W. It looks as though they were cut off. I don't think there
    are many serif typefaces with v's and w's like yours.\r\n\r\nAnyway, it's still
    a great typeface. Good luck!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 20:44:02'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Firstly, I must apologize for the lack of updates and answers \u2013especially
    to Bendy, Andreas and Jasper, who kindly made observations which I'm answering
    just now.\r\n\r\n<strong>Bendy</strong>: you're right, I ran out of space. Even
    using mark and mkmk OpenType features to build up diacritical combinations, I'll
    need more room than FL Studio 5 can give me. But the 6,000 glyph limit will be
    increased in its next version \u2013and probably FL6 will be release much before
    I could complete the font. So, no problem here.\r\n\r\n<strong>Andreas</strong>:
    I carefully considered all your points and hope the glyphs are better now. Your
    suggestion about pen exercises is very good. I plan to do this to improve curves
    and flows \u2013by now, the font is designed directly on screen, without any paper/pen
    support.\r\n\r\n<strong>Jasper</strong>: I really appreciate your detailed and
    insightful critique. Of course, I did <em>not</em> ignore any comment in this
    thread, all them helped me a lot. Some problems you noticed were already fixed
    and many others were addressed.\r\n\r\nTop of |a| was actually not flat, but the
    curve was so subtle it may cause this impression. Now it's sligth rounder and
    the same treatment was applied to some other glyphs, as |\u0190|\u01B7|\u025B|.
    There are also improvements in |g|t|f|c|e|C|G|O|, not to mention all the other
    Latin Blocks (Extended A, B, C and D).\r\n\r\nI just disagree about the flat bottom
    of |V|W|v|w|. This is quite common and there is a number of fonts with this approach
    \u2013Bembo, Miller, Arno, Utopia, Freight, Glosa, Le Monde, Orbi, Kepler, Tabac,
    Tanger, Andron and so on. It's more typical to modern and clarendon styles, and
    less common between garaldes and venetians. Anyway, I improved a bit the colour
    of |w|.\r\n\r\nSome samples to follow:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/acefg_4061.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Improved
    lowercase glyphs.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stranges_4051.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Improved
    extended Latin glyphs.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hooked_5720.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Improved
    glyphs with hooks.</em>\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-21 02:50:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>Ogoneks</strong> are tricky. Although a good amount of instructions
    about ogonek design is available (especially from Adam Twardoch), each ogonek
    is a particular issue as the connection with base letter is almost always different.
    Another problem is Native North American languages, where the preference is to
    link ogonek to bottom middle of |a| and |u|.\r\n\r\nWhile most ogoneks work well,
    lowercase y with ogonek is terrible. Unhappily, I don't see any solution to improve
    this awful combination.\r\n\r\nAll this was considered in this set of ogoneks:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ogos_5639.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Ogoneks.</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Cedillas</strong>
    are much simpler than ogoneks when you work with the usual |C|S| with cedilla.
    But to make M with cedilla I needed a special connection. And there are letters
    like N or H with cedilla, without a base where to hang the diacritic.\r\n\r\nUsual
    solution for Hcedilla and others is to center the diacritic with the first stem
    of the base letter. I tested this and didn't got satisfied. In this beta version
    my provisory solution is to connect them to the right serif of first stem.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if this is better. I'd like very much any feedback on this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cedillas_5485.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Cedillas
    and horns.</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Horns</strong>. As you can see above, in the last
    line there are |o|u| with horn. I'm glad with this design as it keeps both horns
    at the same height and they connect smoothly with the base letter. Horn size also
    seems adequate and legible.\r\n\r\n<strong>Slashes</strong>. As discussed in another
    [[http://typophile.com/node/78088|thread]], in some less known languages |a|c|e|t|
    can receive a slash as a diacritic. I was initially trying to use the same slash
    from |\xD8|\xF8|. Later, I learnt the diacritical slash is different from that
    used in \xD8: it's steeper and goes beyond height and base lines.\r\n\r\nThese
    glyphs are far from beautiful, but this diacritic does not leaves much room for
    a nice design:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slasheds_4428.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Slashed
    letters</em>."
  created: '2011-02-21 03:21:20'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Main new at this moment is the inclusion of Cyrillic and Greek scripts \u2013both
    in early draft by now. Cyrillic gone further as it's much more natural to me (and
    I understand some words of Russian, but no one of Greek).\r\n\r\nI cannot achieve
    a good terminal for the first leg of |\u041B|\u0409|. Also note this partial sample
    shows alternates De and El for Bulgarian. About Greek, I still need to develop
    its ductus to design good lowercases:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic_5868.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>First
    Cyrillic draft (partial set).</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greek_4853.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>First
    Greek draft (partial set).</em>\r\n\r\nJust for fun, a sample of dingbats and
    arrows:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dingbats_3945.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Some
    dingbats and arrows.</em>"
  created: '2011-02-21 03:37:52'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "For purely aesthetic (and \u201Cflowing\u201D) reasons, I would see cedillas
    better hanging from the left serif of the right stem (especially on letters like
    n).\r\nAlso, for y-ogonek, either you create a right serif from which the ogonek
    can hang, or make it hang from the left, balance be damned! ;-)"
  created: '2011-02-21 09:51:32'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Riccardo.\r\n\r\nI <em>guess</em> cedilla is not used at right stem
    because |K|k|R| would need another kind of link. Anyway, I cannot find further
    info about this.\r\n\r\nThere is also the possibility to use hanging centered
    cedilla, a solution adopted in some fonts. I dislike it: these cedillas may be
    easily confused with comma accent at small sizes \u2013not to mention the apparent
    nonsense to have a linked diacritic hanging from the air.\r\n\r\nMore samples:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cedillas_3887.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Comparison
    with cedillas at center of left stem.</em>\r\n\r\nAbout y with ogonek, this glyph
    really bother me. I did more tries. None appear to be good, but the fourth one
    seems prefereable:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yogo_3804.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>A
    sad necessity: ugly y with ogoneks.</em>"
  created: '2011-02-22 02:49:39'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Here is a better sample to evaluate Cyrillic |D| and |L|:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cyrillic_6570.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Sample
    with Cyrillic |D| and |L|.</em>"
  created: '2011-02-22 03:01:44'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Freiberger, I prefer the second H cedilla (second link). I also prefer the
    letters K, N, R and X because they're beautiful and perfect.\r\n\r\nI prefer the
    second y cedilla, because it's better.\r\n\r\nCongratulations. You did hard work
    for a year?! Wow!\r\n\r\nWhen will you finish your fonts family? How much will
    you sell the fonts family per dollars?"
  created: '2011-02-22 03:13:16'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks, Kevin. The font became much more complex than my initial plan and
    it will take about 18 or 24 more months to get ready.
  created: '2011-02-22 03:49:23'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: 'Arghn, Freiberger, 2 years?! Oh my God, poor of you! MyFonts, Linotype or
    FFonts must pay the most expensive price you because of your work of 2 years. '
  created: '2011-02-22 03:52:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Igor, have you tried removing the left serif on the bottom of the y? (Keep
    the right one for the ogonek to start from.) EDIT Or perhaps it's permissible
    to flip the ogonek to the top and have it coming out of one of the arms?\r\n\r\nI
    was also going to ask people's opinions about Hcedilla and Mcedilla. Have you
    seen this glyph in use anywhere?"
  created: '2011-02-22 09:58:18'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Bendy. I will try your ideas for y and post samples later. About
    letters with cedilla, I remember |C|S|+cedilla are part of various alphabets while
    |M|+cedilla is used just in Marshallese. I don't remember where |D|E|L|R|O|T|+cedilla
    are used, but I have this in my notes. The others appear in several transliteration
    schemas:\r\n\r\n<strong>|H|</strong>: transliterations from Arabic, Indic and
    Cyrillic scripts;\r\n<strong>|N|</strong>: transliterations from Cyrillic and
    Indic scripts;\r\n<strong>|K|</strong>: transliterations from Georgian and Cyrillic
    scripts; and\r\n<strong>|X|</strong>: transliterations from Cyrillic script.\r\n\r\n<em>Note:</em>
    opinions about Cyrillic letters are welcome."
  created: '2011-02-22 13:04:58'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Additional information about letters with <strong>cedilla</strong>: Dcedilla
    is used in Livonian, Lcedilla in Marshallese and transliteration from Cyrillic
    script, Ocedilla is also used in Marshallese.\r\n\r\nBack to <strong>Yogonek</strong>:
    here are more drafts. By now, I think the first one is the better choice.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yogo_4505.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Drafts
    of y with ogonek.</em>"
  created: '2011-02-22 23:12:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Regarding your comment about tabular fractions (http://typophile.com/node/75357#comment-435393),
    there are a couple of threads mentioning them:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/41191\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/28608"
  created: '2011-03-10 09:34:56'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thank you very much, Riccardo. These information will help me a lot. It would
    be great to have arbitrary nut fractions, as refered in Chartwell release thread.
    Maybe this is possible combining OT substitutions and mark/mkmk positioning.
  created: '2011-03-14 00:42:04'
- author:
    name: CreeDo
  body: "Really nice font, reminded me somehow of Melior. I like the y's where the
    ogonek sticks out a bit more to the right. I like the bottom of the 4th from the
    right, but not the top. Top should be like the ones before it.\r\n\r\nHow was
    it switching to fontlab vs. illustrator? I've decided to do that too... illustrator
    is maddening in that if you're designing on a grid, it subtly moves the letter
    without warning. I.e. the base of the letter was on 0, suddenly it's on .002.
    The height of the slab was 40, suddenly it's 39.999. "
  created: '2011-04-04 15:02:18'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "<em>Just a humble opinion I shouldn't write in the first place.</em>\r\n\r\nOk
    first of all: This is a really great looking font. Hats down to you Freiberger.
    And to say the least this is one of the most glyph complete font (if not <strong>the</strong>
    most). I don't think that even Adobe produces this many glyphs in their Pro versions.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand I question this decision to make it so very much complete, because
    on one hand your font has been completed long ago (probably 10% of your time)
    in a sense that would cover >90% of all Latin writing languages. The remaining
    10% is now taking you the other 90% of time. I don't think you'll be able to compensate
    this 90% of time spent on seldomly used letters.\r\n\r\nDo you think you'll be
    able to finish all seven weights (28 fonts alltogether as you talk about) in 3
    years (one has passed by and you're talking about 2 more)? US$ 25 per font is
    still not cheap even though they're very VERY glyph complete.\r\n\r\nI think you're
    <em>over-engineering</em> this a bit too much. But you should know best. And regarding
    your alternates. I guess you can't decide which ones to keep so you're keeping
    them all. Maybe that's not the best way of doing it. Choose only those that best
    fit this family. Think of the sheer amount of ampersands in the family. 1 is standard,
    2-3 is nice 4-5 is great, 5+ is overwhelming.\r\n\r\nBut put all these aside:
    <strong>Wow! This font (when finished) will definitely define put you in the typographic
    space.</strong>"
  created: '2011-04-04 19:40:14'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Robert,\r\n<cite>\u2026 one of the most glyph complete font (if not the most).
    I don't think that even Adobe produces this many glyphs in their Pro versions</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe
    is certainly not the measure here. I made the experience, when users seek for
    a font offering both typographic quality *and* great character coverage, they
    usually end up with [[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=282&changelang=2|Andron]]
    (if I may say so).\r\n\r\nSurely Igor\u2019s admirable work will be on of the
    very, *very few* typefaces challenging me. \r\nGreat!\r\n\r\nIgor, you may con\u017Fider
    to revi\u017Fe your \xDF-glyph. In Italics, an \u017F_s under\u017Ftanding is
    OK, but in an upright font its \u017Fhape \u017Fhould *not* re\u017Femble \u017F_s.
    This is but a much repeated misunder\u017Ftanding. The \xDF is neither a \u017F_z
    nor a \u017F_s, it\u2019s a \u017F dreaming of being a \u017Feahor\u017Fe."
  created: '2011-04-10 13:18:58'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: This is even more ambitious and certainly more scholarly than my Agamemnon
    project. I just started obsessively filling in glyph slots, and am paring it back
    severely for a release. Best wishes on your success with this and on finding a
    fair price point.
  created: '2011-04-16 04:03:01'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "So your [[http://www.if.pro.br/imagens/04-en.gif|glyph-count reached 6000+]]
    - that is impressive. You really want to create One Font To Rule Them All. \r\n\r\nNow,
    how about optical sizes and different widths? \r\n\r\nBut seriously, I hope you
    consider pricing and licensing in a way that pays off for you, as your face has
    almost no competition. \r\n\r\nCongratulations. "
  created: '2012-01-12 21:18:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Somehow I'd missed this! Very cool. Especially since, unlike\r\nvirtually
    all fonts with very large glyph sets, it Does Not Suck.  :-)\r\n\r\nSo is it finished?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-12 21:33:07'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: I'd be curious to know the status of this as well. I'm very envious of your
    project and I hope (someday) my project may be half as good.
  created: '2012-01-13 23:18:33'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: Anybody knows the outcome of this lifelong endeavour?
  created: '2013-01-23 23:52:21'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: It appeared to me lately that he is working on Cyrillic parts.
  created: '2013-01-24 09:27:12'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Sorry for the lack of updates but I had very limited time to invest in type
    projects since early 2012. This scenario will remain the same during about one
    year from now \u2013so real news are expected just to 2014.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the
    development continued, although slowly, and the regular style is mostly ready
    (yellow groups are the incomplete parts):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/01_5137.gif]\r\n\r\nIn
    table columns, UC, LC, SC and PC means uppercase, lowecase, small caps and petite
    caps. Italic style is also underway:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/02_6481.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    know just a specimen would give a good view of the font, but for now I do not
    have an updated one. So these captures may give an idea (sorry for the large width):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample01_4098.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample02_6601.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample03_3588.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample04_6169.gif]\r\n\r\nBesides
    this, I also started a sans serif font to work as companion for this project.
    They share the same glyph set and main proportions. Its basic Latin alphabet is
    ready. A sample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sans_4021.gif]"
  created: '2013-01-28 04:09:47'
- author:
    name: jafo
  body: 'I like the sans; its proportions are clear and open, easy to read, nicely
    humanist. I''m undecided about the curve at the top of the tall letters, though:
    they seem too... playful? They match the n-letters, but they''re functional there
    (opening up the notch). The bottom of the stem of b should be opened to match
    the n. Maybe the bottom of the e might want to go out a bit, so that it isn''t
    so clearly just a cutaway from the o. But again, it''s nice, clean work.'
  created: '2013-03-08 17:33:40'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Igor, having seen your [[http://typophile.com/node/102121#comment-550922|comment
    in the Build forum]] I came over here to review your progress and I am very glad
    to see that this is still in development, if temporarily on hold. This is great
    work and if you had not already reached the conclusion, well worth pursuing a
    commercial release for when you are ready.
  created: '2013-04-15 15:45:52'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thank you, Karl. It is very good to hear that. For sure, this font family
    will be completed and released, although not soon.\r\n\r\nJafo, thank you very
    much for the critique. I mostly agree with you. The top curve seems a bit fancy
    and there are several adjusts to be made in curves. When I come back to design
    it, I will consider these points."
  created: '2013-04-15 17:14:32'
date: '2010-02-25 01:38:47'
title: Palimpsest, contemporary text font

---
