---
author:
  name: RahimSnow
  picture: 114570
body: "I can't tell you how excited I am that WOFF is a real standard, supported by
  a real browser (Firefox 3.6), and pursued aggressively by a talented and prolific
  company like FontFont that [[http://www.fontshop.com/blog/?p=1763|just released]]
  more than 30 of their most successful families.\r\n\r\nI am even more excited that
  my favorite FontFont family Milo and Milo Serif is among them. I have licensed many
  weights of Milo and the entire family of Milo Serif. And I have been wanting to
  use them on the web without using any hacks (Cufon, SIFR) or have them hosted somewhere
  (Typekit). I want the WOFF version so I can host it myself. So I have been very
  excited to learn that the Milo family was released in WOFF format.\r\n\r\nAnd yet
  my excitement came to a sudden halt due to 2 things:\r\n\r\n<strong>Licensing</strong>\r\n\r\nReading
  [[http://www.fontshop.com/blog/?p=1661|About Web FontFonts]], I find this statement:\r\n\r\n<cite>While
  standard desktop fonts are licensed by the number of users or workstations using
  the fonts, Web FontFonts are licensed by the average pageviews per month of all
  the domains within the licensing organization. There are three simple license levels:
  up to 500,000; up to 5 million; and up to 50 million pageviews per month.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
  what exactly is a pageview? In the blog comments, Ivan Bettger writes:\r\n\r\n<cite>A
  pageview in this case is defined as a request to load a single page on any of your
  sites that use the licensed Web FontFonts. A refresh or a clickthrough would count
  as a pageview.</cite>\r\n\r\nDepending on the architecture of your site, that could
  add up very quickly. I thought pageview was a metric that might be necessary if
  FontFont was hosting these fonts and needed to charge more to those who are requesting
  the fonts more (e.g. putting a strain on their servers and bandwidth).\r\n\r\nIf
  I am licensing the WOFF fonts and have them stored on my own server, how does pageview
  even come into play? If I was licensing the OTF versions for traditional publishing
  purposes, this would be like charging me less if my newspaper has a small subscriber
  count (a local zine) and charging me more if I'm the New York Times.\r\n\r\n<strong>Pricing</strong>\r\n\r\nAs
  I said, I have licensed the entire FF Milo Serif family. It wasn't cheap, but I
  am happy to pay for the quality and artistry of Mike Abbink's work.\r\n\r\nNow I
  simply want to use the web versions of this same family but there is no explicit
  path for me to extend my existing license onto the web. If there is a path, please
  let me know.\r\n\r\nDue to the pageview-based licensing, the price is unexpectedly
  high.\r\n\r\nKeep in mind: each of the 12 fonts in the Milo Serif OTF family are
  sold for $65 for a total of $780.\r\n\r\nNow if I want to license FF Milo Serif
  Web (WOFF) for\r\n\r\npersonal (500,000 pageviews/month), the cost is $583\r\n\r\nbusiness
  (5,000,000 pageviews/month), the cost is $2332.00\r\n\r\nprofessional (50,000,000
  pageviews/month), the cost is $8745.00\r\n\r\nSo for me, a previous license holder
  of the OTF version, that would be $583 on top of $780. Wow. Yes, I know a lot of
  work went into making the web versions. I know you have your own overhead. I'm not
  asking for it to be free. But $583? 3/4 the price of the OTF?\r\n\r\nKeep in mind
  that these are all WOFF fonts that will sit on my server. Neither FontFont nor Typekit
  have to serve them for me. I don't take up their bandwidth or server space or anything.\r\n\r\nSo
  with my OTF family, I can print 50,000,000 issues of a newspaper, and the licensing
  will cost me just what it does if I use it on my one computer. But with the WOFF
  family, I have to pay depending on how popular my site is. Now, before you go and
  tell me that 50,000,000 pageviews would take X number of years to achieve and what
  not, I just want you to think about the principle of it.\r\n\r\nAnother way to think
  about is this: suppose every time you fire up Photoshop and use your favorite FF
  font, there is a counter that counts how many times you accessed that font. And
  you have to agree that you will stay inside a specified number of times that you
  are allowed to access that font before they hit you with overage charges. (just
  like the minutes on your cellphone)\r\n\r\nOTF licensing is usually per computer
  in a single organization. WOFF licensing is per pageview. If we changed OTF licensing
  to reflect how many readers you have, would that make any sense? Why does it suddenly
  make sense for the web? I am not repeatedly accessing a service on your side. I
  am accessing a digital asset that I have licensed from you and it will live on my
  side.\r\n\r\nBottom line: the current Web FontFont license is metering my use of
  their fonts. This is a showstopper for me. As much as I wanted to use FF Milo Serif
  Web on my websites, I can't do it due to the reasons given above.\r\n\r\nI would
  like to request that FontFont withdraw this pageview-based licensing scheme and
  give those of us who have already invested in the OTF version a generous and reasonable
  license extension. We are your customers. We enjoy your work. We want to continue
  working with you. Please work with us on this.\r\n\r\nThanks for listening.\r\n\r\nRahim"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, so this is a showstopper for you; it may not be for other FF customers.
    Remember, this is a new medium for font licensing, a new market, a new business
    model, and, so far, very little experience on anyone's part. It seems to me that
    FontShop are testing the waters, and I expect their eye is on what the response
    will be from larger, corporate, government and media customers will be. Which
    is not to say that they don't care about your opinion or your custom, but that
    they are sensibly trying out a model that they think will maximise their financial
    return. If this kind of licensing turns out to be a showstopper for too many customers,
    then that implies the market is different from what the font vendor thinks/hopes
    it is, and the licensing and pricing model will alter appropriately. That's how
    the market for creative works operates: you take a best guess at what you think
    you will be able to charge and what rights you will be able to grant or withhold,
    and you see how it pans out.\r\n\r\nThe per-computer or per-user licensing model
    of fonts was forced on the digital type business because there was no realistic
    way to monitor use in print media. The web is a different medium, and it makes
    possible different licensing models. Over the next couple of years, I think we'll
    see a lot of different approaches taken by various font vendors, and even if one
    model today is a showstopper for you personally, I think it is too early to be
    asking vendors to change that model before it has been seriously tested in the
    market."
  created: '2010-02-25 05:33:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"If I was licensing the OTF versions for traditional publishing purposes,
    this would be like charging me less if my newspaper has a small subscriber count
    (a local zine) and charging me more if I'm the New York Times.\" \r\n\r\nThis
    would seem totally reasonable, if it weren't for antiquated font licensing model
    we've grown to know and love since Adobe invented in in the 80's. I agree they
    should probably provide a discount to existing customers, but new mediums deserve
    new licensing models, IMHO. "
  created: '2010-02-25 05:41:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If we changed OTF licensing to reflect how many readers you have, would
    that make any sense? Why does it suddenly make sense for the web?</cite?>\r\n\r\nRoyalty-free
    digital font licensing was a mistake made in the 1980s that has been perpetuated
    far too long. Creators of great photos, illustrations, writing, video, music,
    etc. are all paid royalties. Great type should be the same way. People who don\u2019t
    think that they should have to pay royalties for great web type do not deserve
    great web type and need to suck it up and stick to the same old Microsoft font
    stacks. \r\n\r\nAnd if you don\u2019t think that type designers have the right
    to just compensation for their work, stop charging by the hour. Just charge every
    client $780 up front for whatever work they want you to do. Or try actually creating
    a big font family, and if you ever finish it, see how you feel about giving it
    up with no limits to every designer who feels he\u2019s entitled to cheap type
    because actually spending fifteen minutes discussing the cost of fonts with a
    client is an inconvenience."
  created: '2010-02-25 05:50:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Hey Rahim. I'm glad you're excited that FF Milo is now available for the
    web. I'm sorry you're diappointed in the pricing. I didn't set the prices but
    there are a few of things I feel qualified to respond to:\r\n\r\n1. A basic web
    license at 3/4 the price of the OT version is actually less expensive than I thought
    it would be.\r\n\r\n2. While there is no \"upgrade path\" yet, I'm sure license
    upgrade options are being considered for the future, including web/desktop bundles.\r\n\r\n3.
    For a start, maybe consider the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_milo_serif_web_basic_set/\">FF
    Milo Serif Web Basic Set</a> at $142 if you can manage without all the weights
    of the full family."
  created: '2010-02-25 08:05:04'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "I've been trying to find out who determines these average monthly page views.
    Take http://welovetypography.com for example: Alexa claims we get over four times
    the pageviews we actually get.\r\n\r\nThis also puts some limitations to how a
    high-traffic site using webfonts might be built. The current WLT loads a page
    every time a user clicks on something. The version I'm working on loads content
    dynamically. That means it only loads the site once, populating the views asynchronously
    and resulting in a single page view instead of the average 4.5 per user."
  created: '2010-02-25 09:23:34'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Can the \"use\" of WOFF be controlled by techniques like .htaccess?\r\n\r\nThat
    could lead to interesting scenarios, like websites trying to restrict the WOFF
    pageviews by showing a non-WOFF version to unimportant visitors (whoever that
    may be in the specific case).\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 11:14:11'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: tracking
  created: '2010-02-25 11:43:03'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I just looked through the FontShop materials on their WebFonts, and was a
    bit taken aback at the cost of some of the fonts. I could stomach the prices if
    they included print fonts as well, but that would be an additional purchase, really
    putting the fonts out of my range. Even if I only needed the fonts for web work,
    I would want a printable version to produce high quality comps for clients to
    approve.\r\n\r\nI would be more likely to invest in web fonts if they were bundled
    with screen fonts (at a considerable discount to purchasing both sets separately)."
  created: '2010-02-25 14:15:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 14:22:40'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Web FontFonts are licensed by the average pageviews per month \"\r\n\r\nWell,
    I see two ways to think about this:\r\n\r\n1) Lots of stock photography is licensed
    this way. So there is precedent in terms of it being a model.\r\n\r\n2) Man, what
    a pain. A licensed based on legal wording that doesn't necessarily match with
    the technology's use in the real world. I might as well just use Georgia.\r\n\r\nI
    have a hunch #2 is the bigger issue in terms of sales. FF is certainly free to
    charge what they want in any license they want, and perhaps there will be folks
    that want to pay those prices for a font for their web site. But the alternatives
    are so plentiful and cheap that it might not be much of a market. \r\n\r\nI can
    see why Ikea switched to Verdana. "
  created: '2010-02-25 15:26:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "In the case of many of these new Web FontFonts, it is probably much more
    practical for smaller-scale licensees to go with a Typekit subscription. For instance,
    consider the following\u2026\r\n\r\nCost to license the FF Meta Web Pro Basic
    Set of 4 styles via FontShop = <strong>$197</strong>\r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_meta_web_pro_basic_set/\r\n\r\nCost
    for use of the full Typekit library of 400+ fonts for 1 year, including those
    same 4 styles of Meta Web Pro = <strong>$49</strong>\r\nhttp://typekit.com/fonts/512\r\nhttps://typekit.com/plans\r\n\r\nThere
    are of course cases, like with Milo, where the option to get the fonts via a Typekit
    subscription doesn't exist and you would be forced to license via FontShop.\r\n\r\nThere
    is also the argument of people who would rather host the FontFonts themselves,
    but in many ways that notion is still invalid for anyone who aims to cover all
    their bases browser-compatibility-wise: the FontShop option uses Typekit for Safari
    and Chrome support."
  created: '2010-02-25 16:33:56'
- author:
    name: fallenartist
    picture: 111868
  body: "Typotheque's model seems very reasonable: http://www.typotheque.com/webfonts\r\n\r\nIf
    I purchased a print font then I'd welcome some sort of discount for web VERSION.
    For WEB only purchase the prices seem OK."
  created: '2010-02-25 16:57:44'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "Here's another way to think of the issue of how web and print use differ.
    To create thousands of impressions of a newspaper, the font is used once (basically)
    and those impressions are made by a plate that prints the newspaper - the fonts
    are no longer used. The web is different because for each impression, the fonts
    software is used over and over again to serve each page. Arguably, different use
    than if it were on someone's computer, but distinctions can be made.\r\n\r\nI
    don't agree or disagree with the pricing scheme, but there's certainly something
    to be said for putting schemes in place. That's a start.\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-25 17:15:42'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: '[<em>tracking</em>]'
  created: '2010-02-25 17:34:51'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Good luck to FF in their uphill battle to change established pricing model
    to a substantially more expensive one. The one that looks pretty much like double-dipping
    and therefore is perceived as inherently unfair.\r\n\r\nMy only wish is that FF
    were a public company, so that their quarterly financials were public."
  created: '2010-02-25 18:13:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If I purchased a print font then I'd welcome some sort of discount for
    web VERSION.\"\r\n\r\nThis makes sense to me as well."
  created: '2010-02-25 18:42:19'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-02-25 18:49:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The other reason for additional fees is to cover the engineering investment
    needed for Web-ready fonts - primarily hinting, but also additional engineering
    and testing work. '
  created: '2010-02-25 18:53:07'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Nick wrote: <em>it is probably much more practical for smaller-scale licensees
    to go with a Typekit subscription [...]\r\n\r\n<em>Cost to license the FF Meta
    Web Pro Basic Set of 4 styles via FontShop = $197\r\nCost for use of the full
    Typekit library of 400+ fonts for 1 year, including those same 4 styles of Meta
    Web Pro = $49</em>\r\n\r\nThis tells me that if you don't need 400 fancy fonts
    of mixed quality, but just a professionally produced FF Meta Basic Set, you're
    actually better off with the FontFont model from the fifth year on, assuming Typekit
    don't change their prices.\r\n\r\nAfter six years you would have paid $294 to
    Typekit, or still $197 to FontShop.\r\n\r\nI don't know what you mean by <em>small-scale
    licensee</em> exactly, but even for a small business this would seem a reasonable
    investment time frame to me."
  created: '2010-02-25 19:18:42'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "After giving this some thought, I believe FontFont made the correct choice
    going with WOFF.\r\n\r\nIf the only browsers lacking support are Chrome and Safari,
    they have very little to worry in the long run. The pageview-based pricing also
    makes the most sense for them and their type designers. Never mind the complexities
    of tracking the number of views or the seemingly high prices.\r\n\r\n Their distribution
    model, and this is the big deal in my opinion, takes large sites into consideration.
    Hosting your site's assets on a 3rd party server makes absolutely no sense unless
    they offer performance parallel to a major content delivery network. Where I'm
    from, Finland, I pay a penalty even when I choose to load jQuery from <em>Google</em>
    instead of a local server. Just downloading the 1x1 pixel image required for Google
    Analytics makes for 10% of the total load time of my company's website. My point
    being, no sensible administrator is going to use TypeKit on a large scale.\r\n\r\nHere's
    my prediction: FontFont will either set the future standard, or fail gloriously,
    should the industry fail to understand what they're trying to set in motion."
  created: '2010-02-25 20:33:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"but even for a small business this would seem a reasonable investment time
    frame to me\"\r\n\r\nA website would rarely last 5 years. And, these days, it
    seems that brand identities are lucky to last that long as well. "
  created: '2010-02-25 20:48:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">FontFont will either set the future standard, or fail gloriously, \r\n\r\nI
    don't see a \"fail\" scenario around the business model. Ascender had the page-view
    model six months ago, but has since moved to the fonts as a service subscription
    model - http://www.ascenderfonts.com/webfonts/ - the great thing about the Web
    is you can reinvent yourself if you're agile enough. \r\n\r\nFailing on font rendering
    quality is the bigger risk. "
  created: '2010-02-25 21:13:02'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: I meant failing or succeeding in establishing the locally hosted distribution
    model as the de facto standard. Poor rendering quality would kill every distribution
    model.
  created: '2010-02-25 21:57:07'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "I find the idea of charging per page view ridiculous, and totally agree with
    Rahim on the subject. \r\n\r\nThis makes about as much sense as paying car companies
    for every kilometer you drive, even after you have bought the car. "
  created: '2010-02-26 02:07:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This makes about as much sense as paying car companies for every kilometer
    you drive, even after you have bought the car.\r\n\r\nI think this example justifies
    the practice. If you license (ie. lease) a car and exceed the lease in terms of
    miles, you will get charged a per mile fee.  "
  created: '2010-02-26 02:54:27'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>This makes about as much sense as paying car companies for every kilometer
    you drive, even after you have bought the car.</cite>\r\n\r\nI cannot believe
    anybody would bring cars into the argument. You buy a car for $30,000. The minute
    you drive it off the yard, it\u2019s worth 3000 less. A year later, you\u2019ve
    lost 10,000. A cheap car will last perhaps 160,000 km or 100,000 miles; a more
    expensive one as long as 300,000 km. And a car costs money even when it\u2019s
    just sitting in your garage. \r\n\r\nA font has no wear and tear. I am still using
    fonts I bought in the late 80s. More expensive fonts last longer because they
    get upgraded, to OT for example. Designers will specify a typeface because it
    communicates better than a generic one. Just because type got undervalued in the
    80s when they were considered an easy way to sell filmsetters and the PostScript
    standard doesn\u2019t mean it shouldn\u2019t go back to being considered for its
    real value.\r\n\r\nThe good thing: nobody will stop anybody from using Arial.
    It\u2019s still free, and for good reason: nobody would pay for it."
  created: '2010-02-26 02:59:56'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Just to throw another wrench into the pricing debate, I remember back in
    the 80s, when fonts were profitable. That was when they were only purchased by
    type shops and newspapers. It cost hundreds for each font, which would be a physical
    disk, filmstrip, or other tangible device. \r\n\r\nThe way that the companies
    made money was by changing the format every time they upgraded the machine that
    used it. Thus the font that works on the Compugraphic II didn't work on the IV
    (was there a III?). And then when the 7500 came out, another new font library
    was required.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the solution would be to make digital fonts dependent
    on the OS, so that when you change from WinXP to Win7 you need a new font library.\r\n\r\n:)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 14:23:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I remember back in the 80s, when fonts were profitable.\r\n\r\nSo fonts
    are not profitable anymore? All those foundries lose money on every sale? But
    make it up on volume. :-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 16:08:24'
- author:
    name: lapetino
    picture: 111880
  body: "I agree. This model isn't going to work for me. Even though our site (www.hexanine.com)
    isn't yet busting the boundaries of pageviews at the lowest level, this seems
    like a silly way to define the license. This is far too expensive for what you
    receive and as has been said earlier in the thread, I want a reasonable upgrade
    path from fonts I've already purchased, for use on the Web.\r\n\r\nWhile it's
    true that these are uncharted waters, the licensing seems out of whack with demand.
    I'm not a type designer (and sympathize with how little compensation you type
    creators receive) I don't think Web fonts are going to solve that problem in one
    fell swoop. That's what it feels like these licenses are trying to accomplish
    for the foundaries. I would advise FontFonts to think about the \"long tail\"
    of this and reduce pricing so that ubiquity is the goal--and they will make much
    more money in selling relatively inexpensive web fonts to *many* people for use,
    rather than moderately expensive type to a handful. In many ways, getting to the
    ubiquitous stage could mean the survival/continued relevancy for foundaries in
    the future Web-enabled age."
  created: '2010-02-26 16:15:53'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "Just saw [[http://www.typotheque.com/webfonts|Typotheque's]] pricing for
    web fonts:\r\n\r\nOTF\r\nBrioni Text Std (bundle)\r\n8 fonts (60.00 per font)\r\n480.00
    EUR\r\n(this is the full license which includes print and web)\r\n\r\nWEB\r\nBrioni
    Text Std (bundle)\r\n8 fonts (12.00 per font)\r\n96.00 EUR\r\n(this is just web)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypothequeWebFonts_5046.png]\r\n\r\nOne
    time license cost, unlimited domains. As a potential buyer, I feel a bit appreciated
    seeing that.\r\n\r\nAs for others: just because you can set high prices for something
    doesn't mean you should and it definitely doesn't mean it's good business. It's
    not just economics. It's also customer relationship. Are you building trust? Isn't
    that how we think about business in 2010 or is the type industry still following
    some \"rake in as much money as you can, boys\" model?\r\n\r\nAnd I'm sorry, just
    because you are a type designer it doesn't mean money will instantly roll into
    your lap. It's the same for musicians, painters, songwriters, etc, anyone who
    does anything for a living. You get paid well when you create lots of value for
    somebody. You don't get paid just for putting in the hours to create your art.
    I know you know this, but I think you forget and wish it was otherwise.\r\n\r\nJust
    because you spend years working on something doesn't mean you deserve a million
    dollars. There are plenty of people who spend years working on 10 songs and have
    to charge $13.99 for a CD and HOPE they can pay the bills through volume sales.
    There are people who stayed up all night for 18 months straight to write that
    iPhone app that now sells for $0.99 and have only 100 people buy it so far.\r\n\r\nYou
    can't just create a tool, put it out there, and say, now pay me what I deserve.
    Are you kidding me? What kind of entitlement mentality is that? \"Oh you're going
    to use my font on your server, I guess I'll charge you for every pageview. I gots
    to gets whats mine! I have the power, you know. It's a different industry than
    print. I can change the rules. Yes, I can. Watch me.\"\r\n \r\nYou have to create
    value for lots of people if you want lots of money and attention and praise. Create
    value, please. Stop thinking like Microsoft who charges us for every last bit
    of using their stuff when they can, however they can, however they can get away
    with it. If every software designer charged you for every time you used their
    software on your computer, you would be broke, bankrupt, and in massive debt collection
    proceedings. And type designers *like* this model and want to pursue it?\r\n\r\nTrust
    and reputation go very far. Please focus on that. The rest is just bluster.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 19:37:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Rahim, could you maybe specify just who you are saying this to? Your beef
    seems to be with FontShop re: their pricing model, yet you specifically call out
    type designers as having an unrealistic entitlement mentality. I think you need
    to look a little deeper at what it is that type designers do. Mike Abbink spent
    as much time as the app developers and musicians you name developing your favorite
    FF font family, most likely on his own, unpaid time. I know Mike, and I know he
    isn't expecting \"a million dollars\", and I also suspect he doesn't propose to
    \"change the rules\". \r\n\r\nBefore this gets any more heated, consider once
    again that we are in the early stages of developing business models around web
    font licensing, there will be many more efforts, and we'll all have to assess
    each as it is proposed. Please do not demonize type designers because one foundry's
    licensing model doesn't fit your budget. "
  created: '2010-02-26 19:44:06'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Rahim, take a look at this thread I started months ago: http://typophile.com/node/64534\r\n\r\nIt
    was surprising for me to see most type designers WANT a rental model and very
    few are open to buy once model . . .\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-02-26 19:47:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And type designers *like* this model and want to pursue it?</em>\r\n\r\nMy
    point in response to your first message is that type designers <em>don't know</em>
    whether they like this model, because they don't know if it will work in terms
    of revenue, in terms of customer loyalty, etc. or how these things will balance
    out. People are experimenting with different models. Your response to FontShop's
    model is an important one, but its too soon to expect them or anyone else to just
    change their model because you say they should. What if the revenue from this
    model turns out to be significantly better than that from e.g. Typotheque's model
    or the various subscription models?\r\n_____\r\n\r\nTo me, the problem with basing
    pricing on number of page hits is that it assumes some kind of correlation between
    the quantity of hits and the commercial value of the site, and hence the added
    value contributed by the fonts. This is problematic, because I don't think it
    is reliably the case. It also assumes that high traffic is an intentional goal
    of every web publisher, i.e. something that they want and hence are willing to
    pay for. But of course the amount of traffic a website gets is determined by the
    visitors, not by the publishers, so one is faced with the awkward situation of
    e.g. non-profit, non-commercial blogs generating more traffic than the bloggers
    can afford to license fonts for.\r\n\r\nI'm also not generally happy with banded
    pricing models which, like tax brackets, have built in inequities. A licensee
    whose site receives 499,000 page hits per month pays the same amount as one whose
    site receives only 5,000 page hits per month, but another whose site receives
    501,000 page hits pays almost four times as much."
  created: '2010-02-26 19:55:06'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "@Carl\r\n\r\nI know we're in the early stages and this is precisely the time
    to have a debate, conversation, throw down (heated or not) about this matter.
    \ The time to have a conversation is not after a monolithic winner has already
    emerged. And this is a forum to have these conversations/debates, is it not?\r\n\r\nAlso:
    I am not demonizing type designers. Demonize is a pretty strong word for these
    same type designers that I admire. All I'm trying to do is point out that some
    artists (including type designers) have a cognitive disconnect in their minds
    between doing their art and wanting to be financially recognized for it and creating
    value for their future customers.\r\n\r\nAnd so when a foundry says, \"hey, why
    not *rent* your typefaces?\" do they jump because it means a bigger paycheck or
    do they think about the social implications for doing so?\r\n\r\nIf all my software
    design friends rented their software, you would have nothing but an operating
    system and Notepad to run on your machine--because every other piece of software
    would be metering you 24/7 and charging your bank account at the end of the month.\r\n\r\nIs
    that the world you want to live in?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-26 22:08:49'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Rahim: I did not express or imply any support for any licensing model. So
    I don't know why you are being so defensive.  So far you are coming across (to
    me) as hotheaded. Your language is very strong, and \"demonize\" isn't too far
    off from the portrayal you've made of this mythical greedy designer. I don't know
    any type designer who is that greedy or entitled. \r\n\r\nIf you consider that
    a retail typeface, on average, takes decades to pay for itself, if it ever breaks
    even, your language around greed and entitlement is sounding pretty disconnected
    as well. It isn't realistic to blame type designers for wanting to take advantage
    of an opportunity they see opening in a new market for web fonts. Many may not
    see the dire collapse you predict if subscription licensing models do take hold.
    I don't expect one single licensing model to replace all others, so I see this
    change as less than catastrophic. \r\n\r\nIf you want the situation to change,
    consider proposing a specific licensing structure to those foundries you disagree
    with. Tell them what you think are good prices. They might appreciate knowing
    what your boundaries are. \r\n\r\n\"And so when a foundry says, \"hey, why not
    *rent* your typefaces?\" do they jump because it means a bigger paycheck or do
    they think about the social implications for doing so?\"\r\n\r\nSuppose foundries
    are thinking about both? They aren't mutually exclusive. "
  created: '2010-02-26 22:37:04'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: " @eriks - OK, bad analogy - what about MP3's? no wear and tear there ...
    an how would you feel if you had to pay the record companies if you played it
    over a certain amount of times after you'd bought it from iTunes (or where ever)?
    Or if you bought it when the band wasn't popular and then were hit with an extra
    fee just because the band was 'back in vouge'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 00:11:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Just a point of clarification on the licensing structure. FSI's goal was
    to create pricing levels that were most equitable for a broad range of uses. With
    the three tiers at 500k, 5mil, and 50mil pageviews/month they\u2019re dividing
    Web FontFont use into broad categories so that a large international corporation
    isn\u2019t paying the same rate as a personal blog. They chose pageviews because
    they feel metrics like number of domains and bandwidth aren\u2019t accurate representations
    of an organization\u2019s popularity on the web, and would often be unfair to
    the licensee. FSI doesn\u2019t want anyone to feel overwhelmed about \u201Ctracking
    their traffic\u201D, and will only spot-check Web FontFont use from time to time.
    They simply want to be sure the fonts are licensed properly and fairly. They do
    not intend to monitor every pageview on every domain. In fact, they don\u2019t
    even require a domain name when you license. Choosing a webfont license is the
    same as it has always been for desktop fonts: pick the license that best fits
    you. Extend when you need to.\r\n\r\n> I'm also not generally happy with banded
    pricing models which, like tax brackets, have built in inequities. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure how you get around that unless you have lots of levels (adding confusion)
    or monitor use systematically."
  created: '2010-02-27 01:03:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aaron: <em>OK, bad analogy - what about MP3's? no wear and tear there ...
    an how would you feel if you had to pay the record companies if you played it
    over a certain amount of times after you'd bought it from iTunes (or where ever)?</em>\r\n\r\nDigital
    music is the perrenially bad analogy to digital type, trotted out reliably every
    few months. Font are not consumer products; fonts are professional tools that
    add value to publishing. Fonts are not something licensed for private enjoyment
    by the person who buys the license; fonts are incorporated into published material.
    So, if you want to find an analogy in the music world, you have to look at something
    like broadcast rights, which is actually a pretty close analogy to served typography.
    And what do you find? Radio and television stations do indeed pay by play: they
    don't buy a CD for $9.99 and with it the rights to broadcast a tune as many times
    as they like. And why look to music anyway? There are plenty of direct analogies
    to be found in the rights licensing of other aspects of design: photography and
    illustration being obvious examples."
  created: '2010-02-27 01:54:34'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "@ Stephen For me, the main issue in all of this is that what is being propose
    is selling a licence, <strong>PLUS</strong> charging for a service. By definition,
    a licence gives 'excessive freedom' and 'lack of due restraint'. Exactly what
    is being proposed does <strong>not</strong> do. \r\n\r\nIf foundries want to distribute
    fonts as a service, rather than a product, then by all means do that. But you
    can't have your cake and eat it. If this model was put into practice elsewhere,
    then we'd be paying Adobe not only to licence their software, but also additional
    fees once we'd produced X amount of documents.  \r\n\r\nIn my opinion, services
    like Typekit are great. I pay a certain amount for a defined amount of access,
    <em>without</em> an upfront cost. If I want more access, I pay more. I really
    think it would be in Foundries best interest to look at rolling out a service
    like this for print as well as the web.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 02:10:42'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "@john - i think my analogies are getting me into trouble. You're right, and
    as I mentioned above, I completely agree with a 'pay per play' or paying x amount
    for y amount of use. What I don't agree with is having to pay a licensing fee
    <em>in addition</em> to the 'pay per play'. Using your analogy, how long do you
    think a radio station would stay in business if licensing the right to even play
    the CD cost a few hundred dollars, and then there was the 'pay per play' fee on
    top of that?\r\n\r\n\r\nIllustration and photography? Again, you either pay for
    a license granting you unrestricted use of that image, or you pay per use. Not
    both. "
  created: '2010-02-27 02:33:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There seems to be some confusion.\r\n\r\nA designer has purchased a license
    to use a piece of font software in ways that do <em>not</em> include serving that
    font on the Internet. He has not bought \u2018unrestricted rights\u2019.\r\n\r\nNow
    he is being offered a different license <em>for a different piece of font software</em>
    that allows him to serve that font on the Internet.\r\n\r\nThe first license for
    the first piece of font software is a per user or per device license. The second
    license for the second piece of font software is a pay per use license."
  created: '2010-02-27 04:26:16'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2010-02-27 04:30:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: .
  created: '2010-02-27 04:49:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '|~@~|'
  created: '2010-02-27 04:56:39'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "John, no confusion. \r\n\r\nJust so we're on the same page, can you explain
    for me your view/understanding of the 'different piece of font software' that
    the designer would be paying extra for? \r\n\r\nAs far as I understand it from
    the WOFF documentation, a WOFF font file is, quote \"simply a repackaged version
    of a sfnt-based font in compressed form.\"\r\n\r\nYou can read more on it here:
    [[http://people.mozilla.com/~jkew/woff/woff-spec-latest.html]]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 05:21:40'
- author:
    name: RahimSnow
    picture: 114570
  body: "@Stephen\r\n\r\n1. What tool will FontFont use to track pageviews?\r\n\r\n2.
    Is there any internal discussion about a substantially reduced price for those
    who already have the print license, similar to what Typotheque offers?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 06:41:54'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>you either pay for a license granting you unrestricted use of that
    image, or you pay per use.</cite>\r\n\r\nAaron, perhaps you should stay off the
    analogies for a while, they don\u2019t make your arguments any clearer.\r\nIf
    you license an image, there are plenty of libraries that license for an exact
    print run \u2013 one fee up to a given number, another beyond that until the next
    number \u2013 just like the proposed webfonts license fee.\r\n\r\nAnd, just as
    with images, there is a choice of libraries. If you don\u2019t like one model,
    look for another one. They may not have the perfect image for your purpose, but
    you have to choose between your ambitions as a designer and what the budget allows.
    So, if Rahim loves FF Milo and thinks it is perfect for the project on hand, he\u2019ll
    either get budget from the client \u2013 as you would with an image \u2013 or
    go for another typeface if the budget doesn\u2019t allow for a few hundred additional
    dollars. We all know that you cannot design a decent website that expects a few
    hundred thousand page views for anything less than five figures, so the webfont
    license is but a very small portion of that. As you would not use more than four
    weights of a family on a website, we are talking about $142 for a font that will
    make this website look beautiful, be on-brand, legible, unique. If that is too
    much, then there are plenty of choices. Luckily, using less-than-perfect fonts
    on a website is not a matter of life and death, and nobody will get fined, punished
    or excommunicated for sticking with Georgia. \r\n\r\nYou can also rent FontFonts
    if you don\u2019t mind them being served by someone else. \r\n\r\nI am not sure
    what Rahim means by \u201Csocial implications\u201D. Do typedesigners have a particular
    responsibility towards webdesigners? Like making sure they can indulge their typographic
    phantasies without being disturbed by mundane issues like paying for fonts? What
    if FontShop International told their 30 or so employees that wages needed to be
    cut because they were now delivering a social service to the community? Which
    will love them in return? Will webdesigners starve because of the price of fonts?
    Does FSI have a monopoly like Microsoft, Apple or Adobe who are all well-known
    for giving away software? \r\n\r\nAnd to venture an analogy myself: I love buying
    hardback books. Now and again I will also buy the paperback version of a book,
    to take it on a trip, to give it away or because I\u2019ve misplaced the original
    version. Do the publishers give me a break? After all, they only have to take
    the same data and print it again. \r\nDo they heck.\r\n\r\nFinally: who says that
    volume is the only business model? Ten fonts @ 100 is the same as 100 fonts @
    ten, but a lot less hassle with updates, complaints and invoicing. The iTunes
    model is not the only one. Fonts are not sold by the thousands, let alone millions,
    and to my knowledge there are no millionaire typedesigners. And if there were:
    do you expect Steve Jobs to lower the price of Apple products just because he
    is a millionaire?"
  created: '2010-02-27 08:48:22'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Aaron wrote: <em>As far as I understand it from the WOFF documentation, a
    WOFF font file is, quote \"simply a repackaged version of a sfnt-based font in
    compressed form.\"</em>\r\n\r\nBut not necessarily or likely a repackaged form
    of a font you already own or even can buy.\r\n\r\nSii already said this <a href=\"#comment-398155\">earlier</a>:\r\n\r\n<em>engineering
    investment needed for Web-ready fonts - primarily hinting, but also additional
    engineering and testing work.</em>\r\n\r\nA WOFF FontFont is, from a technical
    viewpoint, a completely different thing than the OpenType FontFont by the same
    name. Different outline format, hinting, OpenType feature support, Small Caps
    available as an extra font ..."
  created: '2010-02-27 11:07:41'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Hi Jens, thanks for clarifying that. I missed Sii's earlier post. I'm not
    trying to downplay the work involved in making a typeface. I've played around
    with a few myself, and know the work that goes into them. I just feel that this
    could be handled another way. \r\n\r\nEriks point above is completely valid, and
    yes, If I was working on 5 figure websites then it wouldn't be an issue, but this
    isn't always the case.  I know a lot of designers who buy fonts not specifically
    for a job, but because they love the typeface. I do this, and I love it. It's
    great to be able to play around with it, knowing that you can use it down the
    track on a job.\r\n\r\nBut under the web font licensing agreement, if i purchase
    a normal .otf font I'm not able to use it online, and then if I turned around
    and bought the webfont, I wouldn't be allowed to use it on a clients website unless
    the client themselves purchased a separate license - \"each of your clients will
    need their own licensing for use on their websites\" - as mentioned by Ivan here
    [[http://www.fontshop.com/blog/?p=1661]] (18th comment)\r\n\r\nI just find this
    disappointing because at present, most sites I work on are mid 4 figures (at most),
    which means there isn't going to be much room for additional budget for type,
    and even if I buy a webfont family license for the studio, they are not permitted
    to be used on external sites for clients. "
  created: '2010-02-27 13:57:05'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: 'Though, Eriks, you totally lost me on the hardback book analogy. '
  created: '2010-02-27 14:48:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: What happens if someone sets up a script that hits your site millions of times
    bumping you over the "personal" into the "business" level?
  created: '2010-02-27 16:18:55'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "Aaron:\r\nthe hardback book is the .otf font and the paperback the .woff.
    You pay separately for those two types of book which have the same content, as
    you will have to do for a print font and a webfont. If you design a brochure for
    a client, you need the font and you can send a pdf to the printers. As soon as
    the client or the printer makes any changes to the document, they also need a
    license. And if a client has chosen a typeface for their communication, it is
    very likely that they will want to use it in-house, for Powerpoint, for Word documents,
    even for design work. Over the life of a typeface, a license fee of a few hundred
    $, \xA3 or \u20AC is negligible. One image from a professional photographer will
    cost more and can only be used once.\r\n\r\nI also buy fonts because I like them
    but have no instant use for them. Like I buy books that I\u2019ll read later (or
    not), have more than one bicycle although I can only ride one at the same time.
    (Disclaimer: we have access to fonts on our server by special arrangement with
    several foundries, but as soon as we use one of them for client work, we buy a
    license.) If type is a tool that you use, you need to buy it. If you build websites
    for less than 10k of whatever currency, then you cannot be expected to invest
    and will have to do with system fonts. But then those brands cannot expect to
    look different from others. An expensive way to avoid paying for adequate typography."
  created: '2010-02-27 16:41:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Aaron: <em>Just so we're on the same page, can you explain for me your view/understanding
    of the 'different piece of font software' that the designer would be paying extra
    for?</em>\r\n\r\nIn addition to what others have written:\r\n\r\nThe level of
    technical differentiation of web fonts from desktop fonts will vary. Obviously
    if a desktop font is in TrueType format and has been designed and produced with
    screen readability in mind, then it is going to be more directly converted to
    an .EOT or .WOFF web-servable font. If a font was originally licensed as a PostScript
    font, it will need to have been converted to TrueType format, both in order to
    be made to work as a .EOT -- due to a bug in IE's web font support -- and in order
    to improve screen rendering on Windows in both .EOT and .WOFF.\r\n\r\nI've not
    seen the FontShop web fonts, so can't comment on the degree of work that would
    have been required to make them as distinct from the desktop versions of the same
    typefaces. But in terms of constituting a separate product under a separate license,
    it doesn't really matter."
  created: '2010-02-27 17:06:36'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: "<em>What happens if someone sets up a script that hits your site millions
    of times...?</em>\r\n\r\nI doubt any lawyers would interpret <em>average</em>
    in the statistical sense. Perhaps <em>mode</em> is the more accurate term."
  created: '2010-02-27 22:11:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "> <em>Just saw Typotheque's pricing for web fonts:</em>\r\n\r\nKeep in mind
    that Typotheque's product is hosted on their network, so it could be considered
    more of a service than FontShop's product which delivers font files that you host
    on your own. This may or may not be appropriate for your needs, just as the Typekit
    option may or may not be more appropriate."
  created: '2010-02-27 22:58:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n>it will need to have been converted to TrueType format, both
    in order to be made to\r\n>work as a .EOT -- due to a bug in IE's web font support\r\n\r\nUnsure
    of what you mean by \"due to a bug in IE's web font support\".\r\nI'm not aware
    of any bugs in IE's @font-face support. Only deliberately chosen features.\r\nCould
    you explain?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-28 01:06:19'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Erik:\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if the book analogy really works for me. As you
    pointed out before, a font has no wear and tear. Its digital not physical. But
    I understand what you're getting at. \r\n\r\nWhat concerns me is how type is perceived
    to be 'used' on a website. It's true that the physical type file needs to be present
    in order to use @font-face, but if the site is hosted on my server (or even the
    .woff for that matter), is the client able to produce another site with that typeface?
    No more than then they are able to scan in the printed typeface on their flyer
    to use in a poster. \r\n\r\nIf you transfered this thinking to the print world,
    then I would be buying a new license for a typeface every time I used it on a
    different flyer, business card or poster, and then I would have to pay additional
    if greater than x amount of people were going to see that product. \r\n\r\nShould
    clients purchase a license to use a typeface in Powerpoint, Word or other documents?
    Yes, as they can <em>produce</em> material with that typeface.\r\n\r\nFrom my
    perspective (and in my situation), clients and public would have no more access
    to my .woff files than they do any other typefaces on my machine. If a font file
    is duplicated, by all means, buy a new license. But If I'm just using the one
    file as I would for print, then I don't see how these two situations are different. "
  created: '2010-02-28 02:03:44'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Erik said: <em>If you build websites for less than 10k of whatever currency,
    then you cannot be expected to invest and will have to do with system fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nIs
    this how you believe the printed world should work as well? Even if i've invested
    in a typeface myself, if the client can't afford to cover an additional license
    for their 1000 print run program and 300 print run poster, then I will have to
    stick with system fonts?\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-28 02:14:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n<em>The other reason for additional fees is to cover the engineering
    investment needed for Web-ready fonts - primarily hinting, but also additional
    engineering and testing work.</em>\r\n\r\nsii, I didn't know you wrote fiction!\r\nThe
    plot needs some work. Too clich&eacute;d.\r\nI have seen claims of fonts \"optimized\"
    for screen but I have yet to see a single side-by-side before-and-after comparison.
    Are you aware of any? I'm not. When I see it with my own eyes I'll believe it.\r\nThis
    sounds like a recycling of the usual BS you hear from all kinds of companies in
    all kinds of industries about how so much of the purchase price is going to be
    re-channeled into great products for the future and wait, you'll see. Just wait.\r\n\r\nI've
    heard and sensed nothing but reluctance from font designers about this. And this
    skepticism has a foundation.\r\nHere is what one fairly high-profile font designer
    had to say on the issue:\r\n\r\n<em>...TTF versions of fonts is complicated, labor
    intensive and expensive. It's that there are very few people who are knowledgeable
    about the antiquated craft of TrueType hinting. It's that the demand for hand-hinted
    TTF outlines is low despite the current \"Web Fonts Now!\" meme. It's that there
    is no reason to rush because most of the browser makers are too bored and/or antagonistic
    to make up their minds on a web font format.</em>\r\n<em>...this is one of the
    main reasons why I think WOFF is a good format. It's a clean start. Microsoft
    will switch it's type rendering in the next IE in Windows 7 to DirectWrite. Firefox
    is working on the same thing. DirectWrite renders CFF fonts much, much better
    than GDI. Foundries can pick which format (TTF or CFF) best suits each font by
    weighing lots of variables\u2014file size, intended point size range, browser
    targets, financial feasibility of hand hinting and so on.</em>\r\n\r\nNobody is
    <em>obliged</em> to put in the work necessary to provide fonts suitable for use
    in browsers. I don't care if they do or they don't. The demand will be filled.\r\nBut
    publicly declining to do so is a bit of a public relations problem because nobody
    wants to appear as a naysayer or an obstructionist, or as out of step with the
    times.\r\n\r\nEngage with the web or not, just don't piss on my leg and tell me
    it's raining, is all I ask.\r\nOr feed me pablum.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-28 02:15:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">sii, I didn't know you wrote fiction!\r\n\r\nI write checks (often quite
    big ones) for font hinting, engineering and testing services on a regular basis.
    Fiction, not so much. "
  created: '2010-02-28 06:36:20'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "<cite>What happens if someone sets up a script that hits your site millions
    of times...?</cite>\r\n\r\nAssuming you don't run your own datacenter, your host
    will eventually stop and report the incident. I can't imagine being a victim of
    a DDoS attac, for instance, would bump you up to the next bracket."
  created: '2010-02-28 09:23:45'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '*Tracking*'
  created: '2010-02-28 12:13:05'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I like this pricing model because it makes other pricing models seem more
    appealing.
  created: '2010-03-01 01:16:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\nI <em>am</em> very appreciative of MSFT's commitment to screen readability
    as a part of its corporate mission - no firm has done more. But you seemed to
    be speaking on behalf of or in defense of others.\r\nAnyway, touch&eacute;.\r\n\r\n@typodermic\r\nYou
    made me laugh."
  created: '2010-03-01 01:29:49'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Tracking this thread because all the cool kids are doing it.
  created: '2010-03-01 01:51:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I too would love to see some real life comparisons of what the hinting involves.
    Typoteque\u2019s fonts are very variable in preformance in different systems and
    browsers."
  created: '2010-03-01 10:26:36'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "I really like John\u2019s comments on this discussion. I second them, especially
    his first one.\r\n\r\nWhat we (FSI) already have learned from web designers is
    that most of them won\u2019t buy licenses for a complete family like FF Milo anyway,
    since they are way familiar to work with just the standard weights Regular, Italic,
    Bold, and Bold Italic. That\u2019s why we offer <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=%22Web+Basic+Set%22&x=0&y=0&num=100\">Basic
    Sets</a> consisting of these weights (if they are available) and single weights
    only to allow for the greatest possible flexibility. Of course you can also license
    the entire family, but we don\u2019t expect many Web FontFont customers who need
    complete super families. <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_milo_web_basic_set/\">FF
    Milo Web Basic Set</a> is $142 only, which should be okay for a website with less
    than 500k pv/m for an unlimited time (You can even use it on all of your websites).
    It\u2019s not by chance that Web FontFonts are less expensive than their OpenType
    companions. Actually we discussed our prices also with a lot of web designers
    and already licensed some in the last months. Believe it or not, all of them considered
    our pricing scheme fair and comprehensible. Far from it! Some expected way more
    expensive fees."
  created: '2010-03-01 13:40:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I too would love to see some real life comparisons of what the hinting involves.\r\n\r\nCan
    you be more precise? Are you talking about the daily life of a hinter, VTT use
    or...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nokidding_3682.png]\r\n\r\nHere
    is Georgia, followed by Reogia (pronounced \u201CRe-Org Ya\u201D), which is Georgia
    with the instruction portion removed from the glyph table, (pronounced \u201Chint-stripped\u201D).
    \r\n\r\nThe specimen was set on a Mac with the smoothing preference in the Appearence
    control panel set to \u201C12\u201D.\r\n\r\nI assume this is approximately the
    same difference a windows xp user would see in default Appearance mode (aliased)
    with Georgia vs. Reogia, but I\u2019ve been accused of tampering with specimens
    to make windows rendering look worse than it is, so I only show those live now.
    I also assume there would be a less obvious, but clear difference a windows vista/7
    user would see in default Appearance mode (antialised) with the same comparison,
    but I have no time to provide live video of samples being made there. \r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary, there is no significant difference on the Mac, Georgia vs. Reogia,
    when antialised, i.e. above 12 or whatever value the user sets on a Mac for a
    smoothing preference in the Appearence control panel, it just works.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are having trouble getting fonts to look good across all windows preferences
    and versions, it's likely you have too many fonts anyway.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 14:03:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "> You can even use it on all of your websites\r\n\r\nPardon me if this is
    slightly stupid, but I'm still confused. \r\nIs it true that: The client (organization
    that runs the web site in question) licenses the fonts, and then the fonts can
    be used on all domains this client owns/runs; but I, as a web designer in this
    case, do not have to license the fonts in my name as well in order to do work
    on the web sites on these domains?\r\nAnd if the client uses the font on multiple
    domains, the average page views from each domain are just added together?"
  created: '2010-03-01 14:14:18'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "<cite>Is it true that: The client (organization that runs the web site in
    question) licenses the fonts, and then the fonts can be used on all domains this
    client owns/runs; but I, as a web designer in this case, do not have to license
    the fonts in my name as well in order to do work on the web sites on these domains?</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is true (as it is also for \u2018print fonts\u2019 when you have to do a project
    with your client\u2019s corporate font), but you as a designer may transfer your
    license to your client after you have finished the work on the website (provided
    that you delete all your copies of the fonts and the transferee accepts and agrees
    in writing [with copy to FSI] to be bound by the EULA).\r\n\r\n<cite>And if the
    client uses the font on multiple domains, the average page views from each domain
    are just added together?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes."
  created: '2010-03-01 14:24:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@frode frank\r\n\r\n>I too would love to see some real life comparisons of
    what the hinting involves.\r\n>Typoteque\u2019s fonts are very variable in preformance
    in different systems and browsers.\r\n\r\nWe're moving OT here, but....\r\n\r\nThat's
    a question you should put to Paul B, of Typotheque. (Or maybe I will.)\r\nIn Windows,
    at least, it seems TrueType hinting can homogenize - there are still differences,
    but they are less apparent, from browser to browser.\r\nIt's interesting that
    the variations in font rendering within browsers has only now fallen under scrutiny
    with @font-face. It happens with the \"web safe\" fonts, too, you know.\r\nPerhaps
    when you are powerless and have to accept a thing you cannot change, there is
    a willing suspension of discernment.\r\nWhat we have managed to milk out of the
    web safe fonts for fifteen years is unbelievable.\r\n@font-face is one way to
    tackle the lack of variety. But there are technical and learning barriers to overcome.
    The other way would be to add to the web safe fonts.\r\nIn 2005, Joe Clark wrote
    a blog post urging Apple to license the ClearType fonts from Microsoft for inclusion
    on the Mac.\r\nhttp://blog.fawny.org/2005/01/21/ccccccm/\r\nThis would have, at
    least, doubled the typographic palette that web designers had to work with and,
    considering how much mileage has been gotten out of Verdana, Georgia, et al, this
    would have been no small thing. It's not too late for this, either.\r\nHere's
    a great survey question:\r\nWhere do the web safe fonts on the Mac come from?\r\n1)
    They've been there since the beginning. (circa 1995, when the world began)\r\n2)
    Steve Jobs won the rights to use them in a card game with Bill Gates.\r\n3) Steve
    Jobs invented them.\r\n4) Apple licenses them from Microsoft.\r\n5) The web safe
    fonts are public domain, free for anybody to use.\r\n\r\nApple users would most
    probably pick number three (just joking, I'm buying a Mac in a couple of months)
    but I'm betting number 5 would get selected the most.\r\n\r\nLastly - when you
    get charged monthly by the number of page views, what happens if you fall behind
    in your payments? Does the font company stop by like the electric company does
    and give you one last chance to cough up before turning off the fonts?\r\n\r\n\"Hey
    man, don't turn off the fonts, please. I got kids.\"\r\n\r\nLater frode,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 14:41:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Got it Ivo, thanks. '
  created: '2010-03-01 14:49:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidberlow\r\n<em>On the contrary, there is no significant difference on
    the Mac, Georgia vs. Reogia, when antialised, i.e. above 12 or whatever value
    the user sets on a Mac for a smoothing preference in the Appearence control panel,
    it just works.</em>\r\n\r\nBut works how well or how poorly, in comparison to
    Windows?\r\nThat Windows needs the hints for the font to \"work\" we know.\r\n\r\nHmmm...?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-01 14:57:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "David: I\u2019m not directing this question to you specifically, but what
    I would love to see in the marketing for web fonts is the different results of
    auto hinting (or no hinting in case the fonts updated for web doesn\u2019t have
    any) and manual hinting. Some of my fonts actually preform reasonably well without
    any hinting at all (at medium sizes), by the way."
  created: '2010-03-01 15:22:14'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Here's a comparison of the various appearances of <em>FF Clifford Nine Roman</em>
    in its OpenType CFF and TrueType incarnations. The first line of each size has
    no hinting at all, the second line has autohinting by FontLab Studio, and each
    third line is the font as offered by FSI (<em>FF Clifford Pro Nine</em> for the
    CFF sample respectively <em>FF Clifford Web Pro Nine</em> for the TT-based fonts).\r\n\r\n-\r\nCFF
    fonts (no difference if ClearType is on or off):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cff-standard_4481.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nTrueType
    fonts, first with Windows Standard font smoothing:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/truetype-standard_6055.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nTrueType
    (= EOT & WOFF FontFonts)with ClearType font smoothing:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/truetype-cleartype_6162.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nAnd
    another one with TrueType and ClearType:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/truetype-cleartype2_3943.png]"
  created: '2010-03-01 17:32:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This would have, at least, doubled the typographic palette that web designers
    had to work\r\n\r\n... that's because you don't know what a web font is, or you
    missed the long discussion between myself and others over just exactly what the
    CT collection represents.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-01 19:55:19'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Jens,\r\nI can't believe these hinting enhancements are worth the hassle.
    For these kinds of font designs we need a mutch higher monitor ppi. :-) Hopefully
    it looks better on Win7 and OSX.\r\n\r\nIf I remeber right some people say a true
    type hinting with VVT of a std font will cost between 1000 - 2000 \u20AC. Even
    if these are moon prices and its done for 400 \u20AC, its a lot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 22:57:50'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "I have to consider this from the perspective of a high school digital publications
    adviser (that's what yearbook/newspaper/lit mag are called by the kiddies now).\r\nI
    read earlier by @James Puckett:\r\n\"Royalty-free digital font licensing was a
    mistake made in the 1980s that has been perpetuated far too long. Creators of
    great photos, illustrations, writing, video, music, etc. are all paid royalties.
    Great type should be the same way.\"\r\n\r\nThis makes complete sense to me, it
    really does!! But I wonder how you feel about programs like yearbook and literary
    magazines that certainly make a profit each year using designer fonts... shouldn't
    we be teaching our high school students typography? How can we if we can't afford
    to buy the licenses? I know in my experience, our publisher provides a font book
    to us each year, but man are they lame.... and very over-used. I encourage my
    kiddos to get online and find fonts they like instead. This is not to say I have
    a garage sale of fonts in my yearbooks, but I do go beyond the comic-sansish fonts
    provided to us. \r\n\r\nWhat are all your thoughts?"
  created: '2010-03-01 23:34:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As this thread has veered a little bit off topic I hope you don't mind me
    posting a link to this article that mentions FireFox switch to Direct2D font rendering...
    http://news.cnet.com/8301-30685_3-20000104-264.html linking to this blog post
    http://weblogs.mozillazine.org/asa/archives/2010/02/direct2d_landed_in_f.html
    \r\n  \r\n>What are all your thoughts?\r\n\r\nThe model for licensing fonts for
    print production is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. The fact that
    most font EULAs do not currently allow EOT and WOFF conversion enables this and
    other new models. \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 05:01:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "On Clifford: I\u2019m not really sure which is best at medium to large sizes,
    autohinting or manual hinting? The real difference is in the small sizes. How
    would this translate to a simpler sans serif?\r\n\r\nTo steer this back on topic:
    this is what we\u2019ll be paying for, and such these kind of comparisons should
    be a vital part of the marketing. What separates the hinting of Typotheque fonts
    from FSI\u2019s?"
  created: '2010-03-02 09:05:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '@ Jens: Any reason for the lining figures in the web version?'
  created: '2010-03-02 09:08:05'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I think if you want to judge hinting quality, you have to learn to look at
    rendered fonts the right way. Just like you need to develop an eye for proportion
    and rhythm if you want to design type. It helps to know what hinting can and cannot
    do in order to judge its quality. Differences may not be visible at a glance,
    but remember that letters will be repeated over and over when fonts are used,
    and small faults can really become annoying over time. All the little details
    add up.\r\n\r\nIt's true that autohinting works well for some sizes. Unfortunately
    which sizes are affected is always different. And if you do the hints right in
    one size, that usually also fixes the other sizes.\r\n\r\nHere are some more samples,
    using <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_kievit_web_pro/\">FF
    Kievit</a>. I made these using Word 2007, which switches between ClearType and
    Greyscale smoothing at a certain size, so don't be confused :) I've added a grey
    dot to the lines that use Greyscale (\"Windows Standard\") smoothing.\r\n\r\n-\r\nFF
    Kievit Thin Italic. First line is Autohinting, second line FSI hinting. Look for
    inconsistent stem widths.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kievit-thinitalic_5885.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nFF
    Kievit Light. Lines 1 & 3: Autohinting, 2 & 4: FSI hinting. First two lines: Autohinted
    CDO are flat on the bottom, vertical proportions of a are off, g has a black spot,
    pq have kinks in the bottom, u looks rectangular.\r\n\r\nSecond two lines: inconsistent
    pixel widths of stems.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kievit-light_5385.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nFF
    Kievit BoldItalic: In the first line (Autohinting), inner stem of B is too thin.
    Upper right corner of PR is too dark. Stem widths are inconsistent between top
    and bottom of bowls in abdgop, also visible in the bigger size.\r\n\r\nThird line:
    stem of B gets wider from bottom to top, bottom bowl is too dark on the right
    curve. Q is too thin where it touches the baseline. Spine of S is too thin.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kievit-bolditalic_6699.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nFF
    Kievit Black: First line (autohinted) is barely readable. I've marked some more
    of the problems I'd correct manually. The fifth line shows some errors that are
    apparent in Greyscale mode but not in ClearType: The top bowl of B is farther
    right than the bottom one, but in the actual design it's of course the other way
    round. S leans to the right. Left curve of e doesn't follow through. Dot of i
    is misplaced.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kievit-black_4619.png]\r\n\r\n-\r\nI'm
    not so sure any of these comparisons should be used in marketing. It's too complicated,
    I doubt a non-typedesigner person will even have an idea what this is all about.
    And if you take the effort to explain this to your font-buying customers, keep
    in mind they are not the ones who will be reading the fonts most. Especially with
    regard to web fonts. Web site visitors will not care what effort went into hinting,
    they just see (hopefully) if a font looks good or not on the whole."
  created: '2010-03-02 15:08:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I know analogies are bad and quite flawed when comparing...but Jens post
    got me thinking about cup holders.\r\n\r\nCup holder are likely the least important
    aspect in terms of judging a car's quality overall, but it's what people focus
    on. Hinting is the core indicator of quality for on-screen type but most folks
    are likely just going to be looking at price or ease of implementation (ie, the
    cup holder) and \"yea, that looks good enough\".\r\n\r\nI appreciate all the samples
    being posted...it's really useful to see the differences.\r\n\r\nFor those of
    you taking the time to do the proper hinting, do you feel it's worth it or that
    perhaps, if we're lucky, in short time screen resolutions will finally start creeping
    up again ultimately making it less of an issue?\r\n\r\nI'd like to believe that
    a premium price for premium hinting would be a selling point, but, well, clients
    are cheap."
  created: '2010-03-02 15:19:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Great samples, Jens! Thank you!
  created: '2010-03-02 15:45:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks for posting these samples, Jens. Perhaps you are right about this
    being to complicated for marketing, but for me seeing the comparisons is the only
    way to tell if I get my moneys worth. That said, I trust FSI to deliver high quality
    work.\r\n\r\nBtw, where you at Typostammtisch last week?"
  created: '2010-03-02 16:09:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jens\r\n\r\n<em>I'm not so sure any of these comparisons should be used
    in marketing. It's too complicated, I doubt a non-typedesigner person will even
    have an idea what this is all about.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is so endearing. You're
    right, us non-typedesigner persons couldn't have any idea what this is all about.
    Thanks for climbing down off your pedestal and letting us know.\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\n<em>missed
    the long discussion between myself and others over just exactly what the CT collection
    represents.</em>\r\nWhat it represents? Ah, so deep, so lofty, so metaphysical.
    And such doubletalk, too! You're such a kidder. What it represents really doesn't
    sound worth my time, frankly. What the CT fonts are, I can see for myself, but
    thanks.\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n<em>The model for licensing fonts for print production
    is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. The fact that most font EULAs
    do not currently allow EOT and WOFF conversion enables this and other new models.</em>\r\nI
    don't understand the \"enables this and other new models\" part. What models do
    you mean and what's WOFF/EOT got to do with licensing for print production? Serious.
    Not following at all.\r\n\r\nregards,\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">rich</a>"
  created: '2010-03-06 00:26:56'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "\u201C<cite>You're right, us non-typedesigner persons couldn't have any idea
    what this is all about.</cite>\u201D (Richard)\r\nLooking at <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/font-hinting-explained-by-a-font-design-master/\">your
    blog</a> post about hinting almost three months ago, I am not sure you really
    understand it."
  created: '2010-03-06 09:11:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Rich:\r\n\r\nI believe Si's referring to the idea that most existing desktop
    licenses do not allow for web font usage (for example, not allowing EOT conversion),
    which is what creates a \"gap\" allowing for new licensing models for web fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-07 09:27:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> What the CT fonts are, I can see for myself, but thanks.\r\nlol. who's
    kidding now? so how do they look on the Mac?\r\n\r\ncheers!"
  created: '2010-03-07 12:09:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fonts_4644.jpg]\r\n\r\nI just grabbed
    this screenshot from Typekit on a Windows computer. Are there less hinting involved
    in the fonts offered there than those offered directly from Fontfont?\r\n\r\nBtw,
    there are some jpeg artifacts (I had no professional image editing program at
    hand), but the appearence of the fonts isn't that far off from how it looks on
    this screen."
  created: '2010-03-29 01:09:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Wow! That looks pretty bad, Frode. Is this normal looking for you?
  created: '2010-03-29 01:42:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm usually on a Mac. I borrowed this computer from my brother, It's a laptop
    running Windows Vista. The web browser is Google Chrome and Cleartype is not enabled
    (by default?).
  created: '2010-03-29 03:32:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode, these screenshots are fully aliased, with no font smoothing at all,
    which is very odd as this kind of rendering is pretty uncommon these days, and
    at these sizes borders on the prehistoric.\r\n\r\n<em>Cleartype is not enabled</em>\r\n\r\nOptions
    for font smoothing are \u2018None\u2019, \u2018Standard\u2019 (greyscale), and
    \u2018ClearType\u2019. This is \u2018None\u2019, unless these fonts have gasp
    table settings that disabled smoothing in \u2018Standard\u2019, which would be
    very unusual."
  created: '2010-03-29 04:16:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The funny thing is that <a href=\"http://www.frankchimero.com/\">Frank Chimero's
    website</a> using FF Tisa Web looks amazing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rendering_4039.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    font smoothing on this computer is set to \"None\"."
  created: '2010-03-29 04:30:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@frode\r\nHey man, gotta upgrade from that 386 Windows 3.0 machine.\r\nBut
    seriously, how do the web safe fonts like Verdana, Georgia, etc.. look in comparison?
    As has been noted many times, cleartype/font-smoothing can be turned on and off.
    Also, what kind of screen? \r\nThe baseline is: how do the intalled workhorse
    fonts look in comparison? You can't evaluate in a vacuum.\r\n\r\n@miha\r\nAh,
    a faithful subscriber. Thanks for the link. Well, it's a pleasure to lock horns
    with someone besides Hudson or Berlow for a change. You're right, I don't understand
    hinting. Enlighten me.\r\n\r\n@db\r\n<em>so how do they look on the Mac?</em>\r\nDon't
    rightly care at the moment.\r\n\r\n@TP\r\nThanks for explaining. Frankly, I'm
    still having trouble understanding it. Will give it another go tomorrow. Maybe
    the light will go on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 05:12:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The font smoothing on this computer is set to \"None\".\r\nFrank that specimen
    of the other Frank's site looks like the Mac, where \"none\" is not an option
    after OS X.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-29 17:50:30'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Both screenshots are from the same Windows computer running Google Chrome.
    I didn\u2019t change the settings."
  created: '2010-03-29 19:00:48'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: "Let's say that the business model is on, everyone is happy, type designers
    get royalties and web designers use the fonts on their websites\r\n<cite>\r\n@sii
    and @kari get the main problem: Failing on font rendering quality is the bigger
    risk, Poor rendering quality would kill every distribution model.</cite>\r\nIt
    actually looks horrible with Windows' ClearType \u2013about 58% of market share\u2013\r\n<cite>\r\n@Don
    McCahhill, Perhaps the solution would be to make digital fonts dependent on the
    OS, so that when you change from WinXP to Win7 you need a new font library.</cite>\r\nKind
    of yes, microsoft will switched to DirectWrite on Win7, the drawback is that IE9
    CANNOT be installed on WinXP, forcing the consumer to buy a license for Win7,
    so they have to pay to have de possibility to enjoy a better Web\r\n\r\nI have
    a few websites which use typekit, and as @frode's screenshot shows, you'll get
    the idea of how it looks on the mortals' computers."
  created: '2010-03-29 19:38:24'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'if ClearType is disabled, and you made no other changes, then its likely
    that that the screenshot above is rendered in Greyscale. Turning ClearType off,
    does not disable all font smoothing. If its a TrueType font, then the GASP table
    settings must be set to allow font smoothing at the lower sizes. When I zoom in
    on the text it is Greyscale text. '
  created: '2010-03-29 19:46:59'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "here is how it looks in IE9, the Regular font looks to be well hinted, but
    the italics and bolds on the site seems to be faked. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fc_6144.png]"
  created: '2010-03-29 19:55:39'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: "@mike_duggan sounds like we have to set a tutorial on our websites for the
    visitors, so they can enable ClearType. the thing is we all here now that, but
    the visitor does not\u2026"
  created: '2010-03-29 20:00:22'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "@sannorozco \r\non Windows Vista and Windows 7, ClearType is the default
    rendering on the system. It may be that frode frank is running Windows XP, where
    the default is set to Font Smoothing, with the option to turn on ClearType. \r\n\r\nSo,
    in a lot of cases the customer does not need to choose ClearType\r\n\r\nmore info
    here\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/e7/archive/2009/06/23/engineering-changes-to-cleartype-in-windows-7.aspx\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-30 15:15:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n<em>Failing on font rendering quality is the bigger risk.</em>\r\n\r\nNonsense.
    Everything favors the early entrant with the lowest barriers. Ugly, beautiful,
    whatever. Not everybody shares your allergic aversions to what constitutes \"ugly\"
    type. The uglier it is, the better I like it. I've told you that.\r\nWhat counts
    more is that it's not the same old web safe mix. It's a different look.\r\n\r\n@frode\r\n\r\nMe:\r\n<em>The
    baseline is: how do the intalled workhorse fonts look in comparison? You can't
    evaluate in a vacuum.</em>\r\nIf the user is quite used to Arial and Georgia and
    Verdana looking like crap, they won't care less about some other font chosen by
    the web designer that likewise looks like crap.\r\nfrode, baby, bubby, what do
    those fonts look like on the machine you did your screen grabs on? \"None\", \"grayscale\",
    \"font smoothing\", \"ClearType\" - these are causes which mean nothing without
    the context of their effect on every font the user is seeing in the browser.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-30 17:42:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: \u2018Arial and Georgia and Verdana\u2019 were all heavily hinted for
    <em>aliased</em> text rendering (i.e. no font smoothing at all, just square, monochrome
    pixels). In addition, Georgia and Verdana were expressly designed for screen reading
    in aliased and greyscale rendering (grid fitted, hinted, and spaced for screen).
    ClearType rendering ignores the whole pixel x-direction delta hints in such fonts,
    but retains all other aspects that make these fonts well-suited to text on screen.
    So whatever the current rendering environment, whether with no antialiasing, greyscale
    antialiasing or sub-pixel antialiasing, these fonts are still going to perform
    better than the vast majority of other fonts.\r\n\r\nFurther, as I demonstrated
    earlier in response to your \u2018Ten Great Free Fonts Cross-Browser\u2019 TT
    conversions, comparisons of potential web <em>text</em> faces need to be made
    at text sizes, not looking at half-inch high glyphs. If one is comparing display
    faces, okay, show them as large as you like, but what fundamentally matters is
    not whether big type looks pretty or ugly but whether small type is readable."
  created: '2010-03-30 18:16:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'll meet up with my brother later in the week again. Perhaps I can get some
    screenshots of Verdana/Georgia then.
  created: '2010-03-30 18:47:40'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: "@mike_duggan You are right, it's enabled by default on win7 and vista, my
    concern is the nearly 59% with WinXP\r\n\r\n@John Hudson I'm with you, web typefaces
    must be readable at any size, and that require manual hinting"
  created: '2010-03-30 19:10:09'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: Rich, I wrote my comment only because of your sarcastic response to Jens,
    that you have no idea what hinting is all about &ndash; yet in your explanation
    confuse hinting and subpixel rendering, which are two very different methods.
    But your blog post is almost three months old and I am sure you know much more
    now.
  created: '2010-03-30 19:20:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n<em>So whatever the current rendering environment, whether with
    no antialiasing, greyscale antialiasing or sub-pixel antialiasing, these fonts
    are still going to perform better than the vast majority of other fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nOK.
    So, Frode, you still there? Take a grab of Georgia and Verdana in that same environment
    and let's see how much better, if at all measurable, those fonts look.\r\nSeeing
    is believing.\r\n\r\n(Frode, frankly, I don't really have the time right now to
    boot my XP SP2 machine with IE6 and start playing with settings, let alone displays.
    Help me out, willya?)\r\n\r\n<em>Congruence</em> is the issue, not some system
    settings.\r\nDo you think computer users with older systems running older browsers
    are unaware that what they are getting is a degraded version of what they could
    get with a newer system running the latest version of an A-list browser? I don't.\r\n\r\n<em>If
    one is comparing display faces, okay, show them as large as you like, but what
    fundamentally matters is not whether big type looks pretty or ugly but whether
    small type is readable.</em>\r\n\r\nNot if it never gets small. I really don't
    think anybody is going to use a font like Tagesschrift for paragraph text. Fonts
    have \"sweet spots\". Certain sizes, measures, just <em>work</em> better than
    others. (Telling <em>you</em> that is absurd, but a lot of people don't know.)
    \r\n\r\nPlay the song \"Begin The Beguine\" in the key of C and then play it in
    the key of A Flat and there will be a very discernible difference you can <em>feel</em>,
    even though all the internal relationships - that is, the harmonic intervals,
    melody, et al - remain exactly the same. (Sorry to non-musicians for the analogy,
    but I assure you it's on the money.)\r\n\r\nComputer screens, as a medium, would
    appear to make a strange demand on typefaces as opposed to print - the demand
    to look equally \"good\" at any size. I think this is unattainable. In fact, I
    don't even think it's worth the try. What to do about it, I don't know.\r\n\r\nSo
    anyway, to cap off, it seems to me you're saying that what type designers looking
    to cater to web designers should strive for is as close as they can come to the
    construction of the web safe fonts.\r\nSounds good to me.\r\nAfter all the sturm
    and drang of last year over EOT/CWT and its main advantage being backwards compatibility
    with IE 6, 7, and 8, I would assume type designers would want to take advantage
    of that.\r\n\r\nFrode?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-30 19:52:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>>@sii\r\n>>Failing on font rendering quality is the bigger risk.\r\n\r\n>Nonsense.\r\n\r\nI
    think you missed the point. I said rendering is a bigger risk than business model,
    as if you have good quality fonts the business model can be changed instantly,
    you can't fix a rendering issue instantly. \r\n "
  created: '2010-03-30 21:18:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Should add that when I made that comment back on Feb 25, this thread was
    about FSI\u2019s licensing model, and that remained the focus for another few
    weeks. I didn\u2019t change the subject to rendering, the people looking at the
    fonts changed the subject. At the end of the day it always comes down to quality."
  created: '2010-03-30 21:50:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Seeing is believing.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat, you don't remember what
    aliased Verdana and Georgia looked like on your CRT monitor for all those years?\r\n\r\nHere
    are some benchmark (representative) images of available renderings of these fonts
    in Vista: GDI aliased, GDI ClearType antialiased, and DWrite ClearType antialiased
    (the latter with y-direction greyscaling, subpixel positioning, and subpixel kerning).
    I can't make greyscale antialiasing showings at this size without hacking the
    font gasp tables: these are set so that greyscale antialiasing kicks in at larger
    sizes.\r\n\r\nIt's worth noting that screenshots of CT rendering may appear different
    on your computer than the local CT rendering due to gamma, resolution, and other
    factors. However, with that caveat, I suggest that any and all showings of web
    fonts intended for body text should be comparable to these benchmarks; most importantly,
    they should be at the same or similar size.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gdi-bw_5824.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gdi-ct_4445.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dw-ct_5228.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-gdi-bw_4048.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-gdi-ct_6622.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-dw-ct_4655.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-30 22:35:50'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "John:\r\n\r\nTo me the ClearType samples look awful, because I see all colors
    of the rainbow in what is supposed to be black text on white background. (Maybe
    my eyes are weird with colors. But from what I have been gathering, many other
    people's eyes are, too.)\r\n\r\nAren't all \u201Cfont rendering problems\u201D
    in discussion these days actually created by the wysiwyg-philosophy? If we treat
    the screen as a screen \u2013 and not as an emulation of paper \u2013 all problems
    seem to disappear.\r\n\r\nAnd as more and more of our content is produced and
    consumed online and on screens \u2013 what's the point of wysiwyg anyway?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-gdi-bw_4048_neg_5061.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gdi-bw_5824_neg_5364.gif]\r\n\r\nAll
    exits are closed, but we can always escape through the main entrance... :-)"
  created: '2010-03-31 11:42:40'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "hi Gustavo\r\n\r\nas John mentioned, It's worth noting that screenshots of
    CT rendering may appear different on your computer than the local CT rendering
    due to gamma, resolution, and other factors. If you are using Windows, and ClearType
    that is?"
  created: '2010-03-31 15:38:24'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I tried to make the same screenshot of DWrite rendering as John, but I just
    can\u2019t. Subpixel rendering looks very weak (my example is second):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cts_5316.png]\r\nI
    used IE 9, but the same rendering is in FF also using DWrite.\r\nFirst I thought
    that I have some strange settings, so I updated nVidia drivers, made sure there
    are no strange gamma settings, color profile was OK, ClearType settings had no
    impact on DWrite.\r\nOn the other hand, I could find a couple of images showing
    new ClearType, and there were also this weak colors of subpixel rendering &ndash;
    weak compared to previous version of ClearType.\r\nSo, has new ClearType really
    weaker colors of subpixel rendering?"
  created: '2010-03-31 18:02:14'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "Hi Mike,\r\n\r\nI am looking at the screenshots on Mac OSX. But I see colors
    every time I look at ClearType on Windows, too. I find it more disturbing than
    Quartz, even though I dislike Quartz subpixel rendering for the same reason (colors).
    My favorite setting is simple greyscale anti-alias, if possible gridfitted. Maybe
    I'm just hypersensitive to colors?\r\n\r\nThe point I am trying to make is that
    many of the recent \u2018problems\u2019 with font rendering on the web come from
    using fonts and conventions from print (<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG\">wysiwyg</a>).
    From my (very peculiar) point-of-view, the issue of sharp screen type has been
    solved several years ago with bitmap fonts and pixel fonts for Flash. Such fonts
    don't look good on print, but with html/css one can easily specify a proper stylesheet
    for printed media, with proper print fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-31 18:16:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>So, has new ClearType really weaker colors of subpixel rendering?\r\n\r\nGDI
    and DWrite CT can be tuned separately (hence the multiple screens on the CT tuner),
    and by default DWrite uses a different setting to the default GDI setting (a result
    of much testing AFAIK) - try re-running the Windows 7 ClearType tuner. \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-31 18:42:12'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thanks Sii, it worked &ndash; the new setting just wasn\u2019t instantaneously
    visible like in old CT.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-31 20:20:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nFirst, sorry for responding to a second hand account of what
    you said. Shame on me for that. Nullius In Verba.\r\n\r\n>At the end of the day
    it always comes down to quality.\r\nYes and no. Depends on the definition of quality.
    (Having spent years in manufacturing, I'm inclined towards the philosophy - and
    science - of Edward Deming.)\r\n<em>More often than not</em> what those within
    a craft consider the important \"qualities\" are not the most important to the
    bulk of customers.\r\nFree is still free, after all. And price is a quality.\r\nBut
    enough.\r\n\r\n@jh\r\n>What, you don't remember what aliased Verdana and Georgia
    looked like on your CRT monitor for all those years?\r\nIs that what that strange,
    recurring dream I have is really about? Now I can seek treatment. Thanks! (Thought
    it was due to some of the pharmacological delights in which I indulged as a young
    bacchant.)\r\n(BTW - Yet another reason why web fonts failed to gain any traction
    until recently was the predominance of CRTs. When the benefit is going from not
    too awful to different but still pretty awful, there isn't much of an impetus
    - even if the bandwidth had permitted it.)\r\n\r\nGreat screen shots, BTW. Hope
    you don't mind if I appropriate them.\r\nRe: rendering with bitmap screen shots
    - as was pointed out to me by my FB friend Bill Hill some time ago, compressed
    raster formats like GIF, PNG, JPEG, fail to accurately re-create. You need BMP
    or TIFF to grab the full color spectrum. Seems only logical, and to my eye, that
    certainly seems the case. (True?)\r\nBut of course the size of the image is a
    deal-breaker when posting to a forum.\r\n\r\n@miha\r\nWhen you say \"weaker\",
    I'm sure you're right in some sense because the one thing I'm <em>not</em> seeing
    in CT 2 is the \"fattening\" of the font that I see on the Mac.\r\nAnd I'm quite
    happy about that. Looks like better fidelity to me. And a much more readable font
    at small sizes."
  created: '2010-03-31 20:32:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ RahimSnow\r\n\r\nMy sincerest condolences! I think I would be less polite,
    if I had licensed FontFonts. The upgrade should not cost more than 20%. Everything
    else is usury."
  created: '2010-03-31 21:19:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The point I am trying to make is that many of the recent \u2018problems\u2019
    with font rendering on the web come from using fonts and conventions from print
    (wysiwyg).\r\n\r\nDon't bother. ;-)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-31 22:54:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So, has new ClearType really weaker colors of subpixel rendering?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    realise, looking at Miha's comparison, that my examples may not be representative
    of default tunings in the release version of DWrite, as I made them with a rendering
    test tool. [So, Rich, perhaps best if you don't appropriate them, but try to get
    some renderings from e.g. IE9 or the latest FF pre-release builds.]"
  created: '2010-04-01 02:09:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Verdana's alright, Georgia's alright, they just seem a little weird, \r\n
    \ \r\nduh-render, duh-render, but don't give yourself away. \r\n\r\nAre there
    one-size, one-platform benchmarks in web type? hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm....\r\n\r\nOr
    is it duh-render, duh-render, but don't give yourself a way?\r\n\r\nHard to decide
    with all the cheap tricks flying. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-01 12:34:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Are there one-size, one-platform benchmarks in web type?<em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    and I didn't suggest that there were. But there are one-size, one-platform benchmarks
    for comparing different text fonts at the same size on the same platform, which
    so far has not happened with all the rush to embrace the desktop publishing c.
    1985 approach to web fonts."
  created: '2010-04-01 18:27:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">But there are one-size, one-platform benchmarks for comparing different
    text fonts at the same size on the same platform, \r\n\r\nI think this is a thin
    slice of bench and not much of a mark. \r\n\r\nFor example, what if the comparison
    font is designed based on the ppm grid at which you want to compare a perfectly
    good text font designed based on another ppm grid? The benchmark font could look
    GREAT on its grid but CraPola on the grid of the font you want to compare it to...
    Is your font better than the benchmark, or worse? Or.... should all fonts be drawn
    to the grid of the benchmark? Are fonts with built-in leading of any amount, forever
    inferior at all text sizes?\r\n\r\nAnd once you've seen these fonts on one platform
    at one size, and determined that they are equally brilliant or mediocre, What
    do you know about them as web text fonts?\r\n\r\n>... which so far has not happened...\r\n\r\nI
    think a number of people have lent little voices all along, and others have been
    making more noise based on tests such as this but older. The results then were
    that we need all the great digital font technologies we've ever had ('cept for
    maybe 1), not a lowest common denominator of two, to really solve the issues of
    web typography.\r\n\r\nI needed most of these technologies to design a puny-human
    web-font-format bench, before I could begin to mark it ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-02 18:04:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fonts2_4878.png]\r\nSame computer, same
    settings.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 16:23:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Forgive me, I did a screenshot with cleartype enabled as well. Must have picked
    the wrong one.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fonts2_4558.png]
  created: '2010-04-03 22:52:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes, Frank, there can be large differences in horizontal metrics between
    aliased and anti-aliased type of the same text on the same computer. \r\n\r\nMr.
    Hudson's 'benchmarks' e.g. do not show this because they are chosen fortuitously,
    or something. \r\n\r\nOr is it something about the aliased type on the right?
    or the missing grey squares, \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-03 23:37:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I take it you are referring to the darker grey squares on the grey background,
    David. They're merely a design feature (see www.mosaicsolar.com).\r\n\r\nI'm really
    not a part of the discussion in this thread, which unfortunately seems a bit heated.
    I just wanted to know if there was a difference in hinting between the Web Fontfonts
    offered on Typekit and those they sell from Fontshop.com. Turns out it's only
    a case of my brothers computer having Cleartype (and \"Greyscale\") disabled.\r\n\r\nAll
    the best, and happy holidays!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-04 00:00:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mr Berlow: <em>Mr. Hudson's 'benchmarks' e.g. do not show this because they
    are chosen fortuitously, or something.<.em>\r\n\r\nOr because they're Georgia
    and Verdana, and are designed to be close to grid-fitted stems and spacing --
    at or somewhere close to the ppem size I show --, so don't vary in width horizontally
    between aliased and antialised as much as a lot of other fonts will.\r\n\r\nMr
    Berlow again: <em>And once you've seen these fonts on one platform at one size,
    and determined that they are equally brilliant or mediocre, What do you know about
    them as web text fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nSo far, you'll know that most of them are
    crap, and that the web is going to become a very ugly and difficult thing to read
    in the next couple of years.\r\n\r\nRe. fonts designed for specific ppem sizes:
    a) obviously they should be compared at the size at which they look best and b)
    they don't worry me, especially not if you are making them.\r\n\r\nCan I go back
    to calling you David now?"
  created: '2010-04-04 03:25:25'
date: '2010-02-25 03:09:47'
node_type: forum
title: The Licensing and Price of Web FontFonts

---
