---
body: "------\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Neo Sans is made by a friend of mine, so I will not help you to rob him of
    his royalties. \r\n\r\nAnd I have not seen Neo Sans or Tech used in the Olympics.
    It could be that you are wrong in more ways than one. Heh."
  created: '2010-02-27 23:41:31'
- body: Tomi, do you mean Sebastian?
  created: '2010-02-27 23:43:40'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Indeed I do. If you want to use his fonts, least you could do is ask his permission.
  created: '2010-02-27 23:45:31'
- body: 'Tomi, you don''t mistake me, I''m not wrong to think that Vancouver 2010
    is using the fonts Neo Sans and Neo Tech fonts. So many people from MyFonts.com
    tested that Vancouver 2010 uses more Neo Sans Unicase, mixtured from Neo Sans
    with Neo Sans Alterante or with Neo Tech. You who are wrong. '
  created: '2010-02-27 23:46:53'
- body: How do I contact with him?
  created: '2010-02-27 23:47:19'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Hokay, I who is wrong.
  created: '2010-02-27 23:47:58'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Monotype?
  created: '2010-02-27 23:48:28'
- body: No. As you told me if I wanted to use his fonts, least I could do was ask
    his permission. Then how can I enter in contact with him?
  created: '2010-02-27 23:51:34'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "If you knew him, you'd have his contact. \r\n\r\nAnd sorry, Vancouver Olympics
    is not using his fonts. I give you a hint: F and B. But please do keep trying.
    Good luck."
  created: '2010-02-28 00:00:39'
- body: "Tomi, I understood you, no problems, I'll buy these fonts Neo Sans Alternate
    soonly. Do you mean I do search for list of B and F fonts?\r\n\r\nIf you told
    Vancouver Olympics isn't really using these fonts, I'm going to show you the site
    and the images to see:\r\n\r\nSee the site:\r\nhttp://www.graphicartsonline.com/article/450019-Fonts_Branding_and_the_2010_Winter_Olympics.php\r\n\r\nIs
    it really a true or a lie? \xAC\xAC\r\n\r\nSee again:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/WhatTheFont/forum/case/143379/\r\n\r\nThen
    what do you think?"
  created: '2010-02-28 01:36:19'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: 'Sorry, Gustavo; I thought you were talking about the fonts used for television,
    not for the event graphics. That is Neo indeed. And you can purchase the fonts
    from Monotype. '
  created: '2010-02-28 01:51:51'
- body: 'Thank you a lot for your informations, Tomi. Resolved cased. '
  created: '2010-02-28 02:06:38'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: All the best!
  created: '2010-02-28 02:20:58'
- body: Tomi, you're welcome. I love these fonts. These fonts are futuristic, sportiing
    and bewitched! I'm fanatic by fonts!
  created: '2010-02-28 12:26:12'
- body: Can I post new topic 'What are you favourite fonts?" here?
  created: '2010-02-28 12:26:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Gustavo,\r\n\r\nit's a good practice to observe if a theme was already discussed
    before you post a new topic. A question about one's favourite fonts is the kind
    of matter you will find in older topics \u2013 sometimes in a specific way, as
    \"your favourite gothic sans\" or \"the best serif fonts for books\".\r\n\r\nSo,
    firstly you may try to do a search using Google this way:\r\n\"what are your favourite
    fonts\" site: typophile.com\r\n\r\nThe forum has its own search, but it's not
    working by now.\r\n\r\nAnother good practice is what I'm doing now: although we
    both speak Portuguese, I wrote in English to let other users read our discussion."
  created: '2010-02-28 14:20:20'
- author:
    name: Cris B
    picture: 119229
  body: This is a little off topic. But I just had a random question. I too am a huge
    fan of Neo Sans since the Vancouver Olympics started using the family in it's
    identity. I looked up the font on fonts.com and it is REALLY expensive. I was
    just wondering if there was a  large jump in its price recently due to its use
    by the major organization?
  created: '2010-02-28 23:08:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'FWIW the price has not gone up. '
  created: '2010-03-01 04:47:48'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "I assume you just looked at the Complete Family Pack. Note that Neo is a
    <em>huge</em> family and that this package comprises  a whopping 40 styles, all
    in OpenType. You can license single weight in OT format for $54. If you don\u2019t
    need OT, legacy formats are available from $39."
  created: '2010-03-01 09:40:43'
- body: Miss Tiffany. What is FWIW?
  created: '2010-03-01 14:24:19'
- body: 'Florian, I want just Neo Sans Regular (Normal, Italic and Bold) font family.
    How do I do this? Where? Why didn''t you answer me vy e-mail? I''m annoyed with
    you. I have to go because I''m going to study for university entrance examinations. '
  created: '2010-03-01 14:28:06'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: This is more entertaining than a trip to the movies.
  created: '2010-03-01 20:11:25'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Gustavo,\r\nI\u2019m sorry you feel annoyed with me. Please don\u2019t expect
    an immediate reply to \u2018<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/67516\">an
    interesting and polemic question</a>\u2019, sent on a Sunday night. Frankly, I\u2019m
    not interested at all in getting involved in private discussions via e-mail about
    illegal font sharing. If you like to learn about/discuss font licensing and other
    typography-related topics, you are very welcome to do so on this forum. \r\n\r\nHere\u2019s
    a link to <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/detail.htm?pid=415112?lang=EN\">Neo\xAE
    Complete Family Pack (Sans & Tech) at Monotype</a>. Here\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/Detail.htm?pid=415088&/\">Neo
    Sans Regular</a>. I\u2019m sure you can find the Italic and Bold without my help.\r\nBest
    regards and good luck with your exams,\r\nFlorian"
  created: '2010-03-01 21:24:54'
- author:
    name: rikardr
  body: For What It's Worth - FWIW
  created: '2010-03-01 23:00:51'
- body: "Florian\r\n\r\nIt's all OK.\r\nWell, I understood you, I sent you a private
    message via e-mail because I was afraid of making those questions that I did to
    you because it would cause conflicts and fights among typographic designers and
    people interested in free download of good and best fonts and you would censure
    and cut my polemic questions as if Brazil in 1964, China, Iran and North Korea
    censured the journal and the reports. I'm very experienced with the forums and
    the forum moderators. I know very well the moderators of forums, communities of
    Facebook and Orkut. All forum and communities moderators are dictator like dictators
    Ahamadejah, Mao-Tse-Tung and Castello Branco, a Brazilian militar dictator of
    1964 Coup d'\xC9tat. "
  created: '2010-03-02 12:08:29'
- body: If I buy and download only Neo Sans Regular, is it possible that I italicise
    and bold this font?
  created: '2010-03-02 12:09:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Typophile moderators are pussycats.\r\n\r\nThe removal of links to pirate
    sites is a matter of general policy, reflecting the interests of the many people
    in the font industry who participate in this forum, not arbitrary dictatorial
    edict."
  created: '2010-03-02 12:18:30'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: This was a *really* entertaining read. Thanks!
  created: '2010-03-02 14:14:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Neo Sans is not a free font, as you may have guessed from looking at sites
    that are selling it.\r\n\r\nWhy do you need this font? If you really need it,
    you should be able to get your client or sponsor to pay for it and get it legally.
    If you only need a font that has the same feel, I'm sure you will be able to find
    free fonts, or fonts that you already paid for and are bundled with other software,
    that are similar enough for your needs.\r\n\r\nBut if you are studying for university
    entrance examinations, I can't imagine why you would really need this font. Don't
    you mean you just really want the font? There is a difference between needing
    and wanting.\r\n\r\n<cite>If I buy and download only Neo Sans Regular, is it possible
    that I italicise and bold this font?</cite>\r\n\r\nSome software will produce
    mechanical obliques (false italics) and bolds from the regular, but this creates
    visual distortions and is not considered professional."
  created: '2010-03-02 14:21:43'
- body: "Hello Brian!\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Why do you need this font? If you really
    need it, you should be able to get your client or sponsor to pay for it and get
    it legally. If you only need a font that has the same feel, I'm sure you will
    be able to find free fonts, or fonts that you already paid for and are bundled
    with other software, that are similar enough for your needs.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI
    need this font for my blog, letters, articles and MSN so it pleases a lot my sight.
    \r\n\r\n<em><strongou should be able to get your client or sponsor to pay for
    it and get it legally</em></strong>\r\n\r\nWow, how do I do?\r\n\r\n<em><strong>But
    if you are studying for university entrance examinations, I can't imagine why
    you would really need this font. Don't you mean you just really want the font?
    There is a difference between needing and wanting.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI want
    and need at the same time.\r\n\r\nThis font isn't for university entrance examinations.
    When I'll be classified or approved in the list, if I'll have some homework or
    university or carsity works, I want to maintain this font for pleasing the teachers's
    sight in order that they give me the good notes. \r\n\r\nBrian, thank you for
    your informations about the italicization and the bold of one font. I'll buy four
    styles of a font. \r\n_______\r\n\r\nI've just searched for this font at Linotype.com
    The group of 4 styles of a font costs 236 euros (544 Brazilian reais). Oh my God!
    Each month I have to buy each one font which costs 59 euros (144 Brazilian reais).
    Really very expensive. "
  created: '2010-03-02 17:28:26'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Earn and save your money, kid. Just like the rest of us do. Those prices
    are pretty typical for professionally designed fonts.\r\n\r\nNice things cost
    money.\r\n\r\nTell you what. Take a break from convincing us that you deserve
    a free font family, and try to create one yourself. I guarantee that after taking
    the time to sketch, revise, digitize, revise again, test, revise some more (repeat
    as needed), and perfect four weights in a full-character set of Romans, you'll
    understand why pro fonts are \"really very expensive.\"\r\n\r\nComplete this task,
    share screenshots of your work, tell us your experience during the  process, and
    then we can discuss this issue further.\r\n\r\nBest of luck."
  created: '2010-03-02 17:57:54'
- author:
    name: im_with_stupid
  body: "Florian Hardwig is an idiot.\r\n\r\nThe font gusrejc1989 is looking for is
    : Neo Sans Unicase. \r\n\r\nNow correct me if i'm wrong, this font IS NOT PUBLICLY
    AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE!!!!\r\n\r\nSo that kindoff defeats the whole purpose of
    sending him to a site for a **** font family that costs over $1000 dollars.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 18:17:49'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: 'Totally entertaining. '
  created: '2010-03-02 18:21:09'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: My Zen master just told me that there is no Neo Sans Unicase font.
  created: '2010-03-02 18:26:08'
- author:
    name: im_with_stupid
  body: "Your Zen master might be smoking his hooka pipe...\r\nAnyway, it may or may
    not be called that, but the Olympic branding that was just jammed up our collective
    bumholes tells me that yes there is indeed a Unicase version out there somewhere
    in fontland.....\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 18:33:45'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Jos, on his website, Seb Lester confirms that <a href=\"http://seblester.co.uk/news.php\">\u201C\u2019Neo
    Sans\u2019 is the official typeface of the 2010 Winter Olympics, including a custom
    unicase version [he] developed at Monotype\u201D</a>.\r\n\r\nJohn, read carefully:
    I replied to <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/67877#comment-398697\">Gustavo\u2019s
    request</a>; \u201CI want just Neo Sans Regular (Normal, Italic and Bold) font
    family. How do I do this? Where?\u201D"
  created: '2010-03-02 18:40:59'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Florian, I was aware of that. My (non-smoking) Zen master is aware of other
    things ;)
  created: '2010-03-02 18:57:49'
- author:
    name: im_with_stupid
  body: "i eat my words. Florian; i love you. Lets make babies together one day.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 19:55:27'
- body: "Florian, why didn't you answer my post? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/MsgPlus_Img0825_3598.png]\r\nI
    recognise you're really unsuportable (ugly or unbereable) by being German. \r\nI'm
    very annoyed with you. "
  created: '2010-03-03 02:42:05'
- body: "I've just reiced an e-mail from Sebastian Lester:\r\n_______________________\r\nHi
    Gustavo,\r\n\r\nThanks for the kind words.\r\nThe unicase version won't be available
    for a while, probably,\r\nas it's a custom version that was paid for by the Olympic
    committee\r\nand so they own the rights to it at the moment. Maybe one day though.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nSeb\"</em>\r\n_______________________\r\nNeo
    Sans Unicase will never be available. I'm really very sad!"
  created: '2010-03-03 11:08:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: 'You only want to please your teacher? In case of Neo Sans I cannot resist
    to say: Just google for it with the help of (google!:) "google search operators"
    and spare your money for a font, that is not damn ugly!'
  created: '2010-03-03 11:55:35'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "> <em>If I buy and download only Neo Sans Regular, is it possible that I
    italicise and bold this font?</em>\r\n\r\nThis has to be a troll. He/She knows
    exactly what buttons to push. The next question will probably be about font embedding,
    wondering if someone can upload the OTF files on their server for him/her and
    provide a path to their location."
  created: '2010-03-03 12:52:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "<cite>This has to be a troll. He/She knows exactly what buttons to push.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    thoughts as well. That and the fact the account was created 3 days ago, and his
    education is listed as '3th grade' . . . now I wonder if he actually e-mailed
    Seb or wrote that e-mail himself."
  created: '2010-03-03 17:37:53'
- body: 'You both offended me because you both are German. '
  created: '2010-03-03 19:00:55'
- body: "Armin and Penn, f*ck you and go to hell. I finished the 3rd grade two years
    ago. 3rd grade is the last year of high education in Brazil. I didn't enter in
    an university yet. I sent by Sebastian's site. I wonder you both hate Brazilains
    and you're arrogant. \r\n\r\nI'm a newest in a forum. "
  created: '2010-03-03 19:04:46'
- body: If you Germans will speak badly of me and accusing me of being a troll, I'll
    tell to the Brazilians and we Brazilians will speak badly of Germans, will be
    xenophobic and won't accept receiving or won't give the hospitality to the German
    in house!
  created: '2010-03-03 19:10:27'
- body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/imagem_3884.PNG]'
  created: '2010-03-03 19:23:47'
- body: Armin and Penn, fck you again!
  created: '2010-03-03 19:24:47'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: "Easy there, lets calm down and take a deep breath. \r\n\r\nGustavo - you're
    new here and haven't yet developed an established relationship with the community
    here. When you posted a message that asks for a commercially-sold font *for free*
    - well that's not only bad manners, it's unethical and also, in many cases, illegal.
    To top off this mistake, you made such a request here on a forum that's frequented
    and used by people who make a living designing and producing such creations -
    including Seb. Thus you are receiving \"pushback\".\r\n\r\nSo the lessons to learn
    are: Don't offend the community you're visiting, don't ask people to do something
    illegal, and finally, save up the money if you want it."
  created: '2010-03-03 19:40:32'
- author:
    name: chrisherron
    picture: 116711
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nicholson_6099.jpg]'
  created: '2010-03-03 19:42:07'
- author:
    name: Elias
  body: "Highly entertaining.\r\n\r\nGustavo, I sincerely doubt that *any* German
    would want to visit you and your friends if this is your normal reaction to not
    supporting you with piracy."
  created: '2010-03-03 19:47:55'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "* Officially Out of Control *\r\n\r\nOkay, piracy is one thing. Cultural
    slander? Come on, guys. This thread went from entertaining to nauseating in no
    time flat.\r\n\r\n<strong>Note to new visitors: This is <em>incredibly unusual
    behavior</em> for Typophile. Welcome, and please check out more of this helpful
    (and otherwise very credible) resource.</strong>"
  created: '2010-03-03 20:53:13'
- body: I'm leaving the forum. Forget me and disappear!
  created: '2010-03-03 21:20:48'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Misguided cultural slander at that, seeing as how neither Armin, nor I are
    German . . .
  created: '2010-03-03 21:22:47'
- body: I wantt to remove my account of here. I don't want to frequent this. Where?
    How?
  created: '2010-03-03 21:35:06'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "From an argentinean to Gustavo;\r\n\r\nYou were not suspected of being a
    little mythological being (troll) but a certain kind of provoker of debate or
    'flames' (see: http://www.jargon.net/jargonfile/t/troll.html).\r\n\r\nTake your
    time and relax. Come back in a couple of days and learn from people who is not
    either xenophobic nor aggressive.  "
  created: '2010-03-03 21:44:22'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Gustavo\r\n\r\nThe ugly font you are searching for can be found via Google!
    I don\u2019t think, that it is immorally, if a kid uses an unlicensed font, as
    far, as it does not make money with the work, for which it uses the font, as far
    as it does not have much money and as far as it does not become attuned to use
    commercial software without paying for it. A font is not a car!\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, I am German, too. With regard to the speed of downsizing democracy, our constitution
    and civil rights, and with regard to upsizing our surveillance infrastructure
    we are actually in the mid-table of the Western European league. But at least
    we don\u2019t have paramilitary units here, that shoot street kids to death. The
    scissors of poor and rich is much more open in Brazil. You don\u2019t seem to
    know much about Germany. (Maybe your prejudices are valid in fifteen or twenty
    years.)"
  created: '2010-03-03 21:45:58'
- body: I want to remove my account of Tyophile forum NOW!
  created: '2010-03-03 21:48:25'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: Misunderstanding. Former content removed. No misunderstanding. You have changed
    your user name, while I was writing.
  created: '2010-03-03 22:08:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Gustavo,\r\n\r\nYou need to tame yourself. When someone disagrees with you,
    he/she is not against you. People here did answer your messages with education
    even after your attacked them with unfair accusations. They even considered you're
    very a young boy who may confuse some words as English is not your native language.
    You may learn from them how to be polite and tries to understand other's point
    of view.\r\n\r\nYou will surely live many other situations where people will say
    'no' to your interests. It's necessary to manage this and to understand this 'no'.
    This time all you need is to leave the forum. But the real life is not so simple.\r\n\r\nFor
    me, as a Brazilian, it's a shame to read these attacks you made, talking about
    dictatorships and Germans. Hope you do some reflection about this episode and
    ask yourself why everybody became 'against' you.\r\n\r\nYou may ask moderators
    to remove your accounts \u2013 I think you have more than one. Take a look at
    http://www.typophile.com/readme"
  created: '2010-03-03 22:12:23'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Gustavo (gusrejc1989 ) said:\r\n<cite>I want to remove my account of/from
    here! I didn't find where and how I remove my acoount! Please, I don't want to
    frequent here.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is my pleasure."
  created: '2010-03-03 22:52:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This thread is a jewel in the rough!\r\n\r\nBTW isn't Brazil, like, German?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-16 22:53:06'
- author:
    name: Sonoraphobic
    picture: 126103
  body: Guys, care for popcorn?
  created: '2012-12-25 12:57:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I finished mine during the US election.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-25 15:14:03'
date: '2010-02-27 23:29:12'
node_type: forum
title: Where do I get Neo Sans Font Family?

---
