---
author:
  name: A-type
body: 'I know, very open broad question. I guess I''m curious at the possibility of
  being able to create fonts and somewhat make a living of them. I''m going to leave
  it broad to keep the answers open. '
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Having a big hit can pay your rent for years, but those things are subjective.
    For every trendy display font selling a hundred licenses a month there are a lot
    of similar fonts nobody even notices. And the same goes for every other category
    of font. Being good and staying in the field a long time will help\u2014the designers
    making a living off retail fonts spent years getting there."
  created: '2010-02-28 01:43:28'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I hope I'm about to see. Heh.
  created: '2010-02-28 02:36:18'
- author:
    name: A-type
  body: Good points James. Are there anyone here currently selling and making money
    with their fonts? Care to enlighten us on the economics of it?
  created: '2010-03-01 05:35:42'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I second the ask. It would be interesting to have an idea about how many
    licenses are purchased from a best-selling, an average and a poor-selling single
    font and a family package. Not exact numbers, just an idea.\r\n\r\nAnother question:
    when a printer (say, a magazine editor) purchase licenses, they use to buy the
    correct amount (this is, the real number of CPUs using the font)?"
  created: '2010-03-01 05:52:58'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Very few seem to make real money out of it, perhaps Tomi and surely Jos B.
    count among them. Gratulations. For all others, that means, 99% of the folks offering
    fonts (from rubbish to high quality) that busines is a mess. Because the market
    is hopelessly glutted with fonts. \u2013 You can hardly say what might push your
    sales, apart from placing obvious seasonal crowd ticklers (which is not everyone\u2019s
    part). Even those: how long *will* they pay the rent? Nobody knows.\r\nI have
    fonts to offer from under $10 up to $300 (package); all do sell but I\u2019m far
    from earning a living from it. However, if you have spent about ten years on the
    development of a typeface, like I did, you won\u2019t just drop it because of
    bad sales.\r\n\r\nIf you think of earning money, don\u2019t think of making fonts.\r\nAnd
    vice versa.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 14:09:00'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: In my experience a good selling font sells around 1 or 2 items a week. But
    that can vary a lot. Some months sells are hot and some other colder. More expensive
    families sometimes sells one item a month but the amount can be higher that the
    monthly total of a good selling single font. I think it a good strategy  not to
    offer families in single weights but in small packages. If someone really want
    or need a font he will buy the pack.
  created: '2010-03-01 14:46:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Shinntype was founded 10 years ago, but I started 30 years ago, before digital.\r\nI'm
    sure a \"typical\" career path would be different today, for many many reasons.\r\nI
    started out as an art director with type design as a sideline, with fonts published
    by other \"foundries\" (FSI, Monotype) but that was before e-commerce, when direct
    mail was used to market fonts on floppies.\r\nI think you'd have to make a greater
    commitment today, what with the technical and linguistic demands of OpenType,
    and the role of Reading and KABK in raising the bar, more players in the game,
    and the greater sophistication of web design and online marketing -- you can't
    pick it up as you go along so easily, and the culture is not so \"Wild West\"
    as it used to be.\r\n\r\nEveryone's market is slightly different.\r\nI make a
    proportion of my income off commissioned work.\r\nI have around 10 distributors.\r\nMy
    philosophy is Long Tail, incremental -- a lot of fonts, mostly large families,
    a lot of distributors, over a long time. \r\nI don't follow trends, that way the
    fonts have durability. But it would be a slow way to get started now. Having a
    \"hit\" helps (mine was Fontesque), in fact that's what led me to believe that
    type design was a viable source of income.\r\nSo if you are starting out without
    a hit, it's a bigger commitment, a bigger leap of faith now.\r\n\r\nOne advantage
    of e-commerce is that you don't have to live downtown in an expensive city to
    service clients.\r\nI recently moved to a small town. People ask if I retired.\r\nActually,
    I read an article in Design Edge magazine that some hip young Toronto graphic
    designers are moving out anyway.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 15:37:11'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I'm selling fonts because I love making them. I would even make fonts if
    I couldn't sell any. OK, maybe not with all the CE characters, small caps, numeral
    sets and ligatures, but still... :)\r\n\r\nMuseo was my eye-opener (like Nick's
    Fontesque) to the fact that you actually <cite>can</cite> earn money from type
    design. Selling fonts together with a little bit of OEM licensing and custom work
    does pay for the bills and the peanut butter at the moment."
  created: '2010-03-01 23:39:04'
- author:
    name: A-type
  body: 'Some excellent info. I''m young, ambitious, and naive enough where I think
    this and supplemental work could actually make for a humble living. Its great
    to see some heavy hitters in the type industry on here, I should''ve been a consistent
    member a long time ago. '
  created: '2010-03-02 03:34:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Mark Simonson on the fonts business... "Who wants to be a thousandaire?" '
  created: '2010-03-02 03:42:04'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "I'm a bit leery to put my two cents in here because I've been fortunate to
    make a living at it. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure why though. I know that some of my fonts
    are popular, but I'm not sure what makes a font popular. I tend to create things
    that interest me, but since this is my livelihood, I also create things that I
    think other people would like to have. When I design what becomes a popular font,
    it tends to have a snow ball effect. The more people see it used, the more they
    want it.\r\n\r\nAnd the popularity of one font can lead to the sales of other
    less known fonts. The question is, \"What makes a font popular?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nLook
    at this example... I have done some work that frankly, I think is mediocre, but
    does well... while there are other things I've done that I am so much more proud
    of, from a creative point of view, and they seem to fall through the cracks. \r\n\r\nThe
    font that I've been updating lately (see the Polish \u0142 thread) is called Corinthia,
    and it's sales have done quite well. While I'm grateful that it's popular, I know
    it isn't my best work. In fact, I'm a bit horrified with some of the decisions
    I made when I first created it many  years ago. That's why I decided to update
    it recently. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, one of my favorite fonts is called Babylonica,
    and it's not well known at all and thus hasn't sold well.\r\n\r\n\r\nHaving said
    all of that... it's quite possible that the name of the font has a lot to do with
    its popularity, and so it sells. Another font that has done well for me is called
    \"Inspiration.\" Could it be the name? \r\n\r\nI'd be interested to hear other
    people's thoughts on the naming of fonts. The process by which one comes up with
    a name.\r\n\r\nRob\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sale_font_5204.png]"
  created: '2010-03-02 03:44:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The process by which one comes up with a name.</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter
    making the stupid mistake of naming a font \u201CDownturn\u201D after the crap
    economy I\u2019m trying to think more along Jonathan Hoefler\u2019s advice and
    give fonts names that show off the better characters in the font and don\u2019t
    contain any really ugly pairs. I\u2019m also trying to stick with interesting
    words; Armitage was picked because it\u2019s relevant to the name of my foundry,
    but also because it has some English bucolic charm (or at least it sounds like
    it does, I\u2019ve never been to Armitage)."
  created: '2010-03-02 04:19:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not bad, but Armita would have been better, on the Carter principle of three
    syllables ending in \"a\".\r\nBut I defer to all those Lovecraft-loving phont
    phreaks....\r\n\r\nYou could always re-release Downturn as Stimulus. Sorry, Stimula."
  created: '2010-03-02 11:39:34'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I actually think the marketing aspect of a typeface is most crucial. Granted,
    I haven't sold a typeface yet myself because I haven't finished a professional
    one yet. However, I've purchased typefaces and I've realized I ignore many typefaces
    simply because of the bad way it's marketed. For example, on myfonts.com the section
    where you can try out the type is brilliant to get a clear picture of what you
    get, but it doesn't show what you can actually do with it in terms of design (composition,
    color etc.), and in case the typeface has OpenType features, it can only show
    the very basic ligatures and nothing more, not to mention the errors some typefaces
    present with certain letters with punctiation (rare case though). The gallery
    section of myfonts.com is therefor essential to sell the typeface. Jos Buivenga
    seems to understand the impact of proper marketing, from his indvidual typeface
    presentations to the exljbris website itself. I'm sorry to say, but most of the
    people who posted in this thread - regardless of how many licenses you've sold
    already - haven't mastered that aspect yet. I really think it's the essential
    part.\r\n\r\nThe name of the typeface is secondary to the presentation, but still
    quite essential. I wouldn't recommend the use of double vowels (oo, aa etc.),
    but I do recommend the use of 2 or more different vowels whitout making the name
    unnecessarily long. Every vowel has a different psychological impact and association,
    so you might want to take that into consideration as well.\r\n\r\nAs for the process
    of coming up with a name, I can imagine it's very different for everyone. I often
    search for obscure words and change them to my liking. I generally think words
    that have no obvious meaning work better. A typeface I'm working on is called
    \"C\xE9lente\" . The use of an acute accent isn't a smart thing, so I might remove
    it before releasing it, although I'm a bit afraid the pronunciation wouldn't be
    as intended then. In any case, it's a combination of \"celeste\"/\"celestial\"
    and \"silentium\" from one of my favorite aphorisms \"silentium est aureum\" (silence
    is golden). It's also smart to choose a name that contains one or more letters
    of your font that you would consider best, or characteristic for your typeface."
  created: '2010-03-02 12:47:23'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>For example, on myfonts.com the section where you can try out the type
    is brilliant to get a clear picture of what you get, but it doesn't show what
    you can actually do with it in terms of design (composition, color etc.), and
    in case the typeface has OpenType features, it can only show the very basic ligatures
    and nothing more,</cite>\r\n\r\nNot every type tester is as limited as the myfonts
    model.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.terminaldesign.com/Fonts/#/TypeTester\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2010-03-02 13:11:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: For the record, the MyFonts type tester allows you to set the text and background
    colours from a colour wheel and using a variety of OpenType features including
    alternates, case-sensitive forms, small caps, different figure styles, swashes,
    stylistic sets and many more.
  created: '2010-03-02 13:58:52'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>in case the typeface has OpenType features, it can only show the very
    basic ligatures and nothing more,</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's just wrong. The MyFonts
    type samples show all of the font's OpenType features:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/M_3804.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-02 14:05:21'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I agree marketing is extremely important, with many \u2013and good\u2013
    distribution channels, a distinctive and appealing name and so on. But I have
    a question about PDF samples and specimens.\r\n\r\nAs a font buyer I make decisions
    based especially in PDF samples \u2013although on-line tests are also important.
    But as a font designer I'm afraid from these extracts some people do from PDFs.
    What is your experience/opinion?\r\n\r\nA 128-bit secured PDF does not avoid extraction?
    Text converted to outlines print a slight bolder, so this is not a good option?
    Or one could ignore this risk as extraction lost all spacing, kerning, hinting
    and OT features?\r\n\r\nBTW, I loved the Celeste promotional art FF produced.
    Their PDF specimens use to be insufficient to get a real fell about a font, but
    this illustration is outstanding."
  created: '2010-03-02 15:33:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I spent 45 years working as a graphic designer/manager for others. Now is
    my time to work for me and do something I am happy to do. Sometimes you just have
    to cast your bread on the waters to see which birds appear.
  created: '2010-03-02 15:59:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But as a font designer I'm afraid from these extracts some people do
    from PDFs.</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter I had a laptop stolen and found out my backups
    weren\u2019t working properly I had to recover a font in progress by extracting
    it from a PDF. It\u2019s a pain in the ass. It takes less time to download a torrent
    of every commercial font released in the last twenty years. Anyone putting that
    much effort into stealing a font isn\u2019t buying them to begin with."
  created: '2010-03-02 16:35:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I'm curious at the possibility of being able to create fonts and somewhat
    make a living of them.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know if you will be able to make
    a living making fonts. I have. Quite a good one actually. The type business is,
    well, a business, and a lot more complicated than most of you are aware of. When
    these threads came up in the past it always amused me that all the naysayers on
    earning a living in the type business were not in the type business. Thankfully
    this thread is taking a bit of a different track. \r\n\r\nWhat I find really interesting
    is that on Typophile the same dozen or so type designers names come up, as if
    they are the only ones whose work is of interest, but there are so many people
    in this business making a good go at it, whose names are hardly ever mentioned.\r\n\r\nAs
    to worrying about your pdf samples. Password protect them against content extraction
    and stop worrying, as Mr Puckett points out, anyone putting that much effort into
    hacking a font out of a pdf is not a customer you want, need or will ever get.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "<em>I\u2019m trying to think more along Jonathan Hoefler\u2019s advice and
    give fonts names that show off the better characters in the font and don\u2019t
    contain any really ugly pairs.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's something I <em>have</em> done.
    I've changed the name of a font I really liked because the <em>name</em> didn't
    show it off well enough.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I have a question about the
    ethical question of naming a font. I am presently working on a font that emulates
    a piece of Villu Toots' calligraphy. Since his work is the inspiration for the
    font, I'm considering naming it Villu, or Toots, or VilluToots. An Estonian calligrapher,
    Villu Toots passed away in the early nineties, so I don't have the opportunity
    to ask him if it's ok with him.\r\n\r\nI know other fonts are named after well
    known typographers... so my question is, would I be out of bounds naming this
    new font after Villu Toots? Would I be crossing any ethical boundries?\r\n\r\nP.S.
    I believe Jovica Veljovic may have known VIllu. Is there anyone here on Typophiles
    who knew him personally? "
  created: '2010-03-02 18:21:37'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "It's a business like anything else. \r\n\r\nOffer a solid product and you'll
    do well. Take it seriously, treat it like the form of art that is, and you'll
    get noticed. "
  created: '2010-03-02 19:51:35'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> After I had a laptop stolen and found out my backups weren\u2019t working
    properly I had to recover a font in progress by extracting it from a PDF. It\u2019s
    a pain in the ass. It takes less time to download a torrent of every commercial
    font released in the last twenty years. Anyone putting that much effort into stealing
    a font isn\u2019t buying them to begin with.\r\n\r\nThat would be okay if the
    b*gg*rs just kept the fonts to themselves. But they post them on BBs and warez
    sites, and then anyone can get them without problems.\r\n\r\nDon"
  created: '2010-03-02 20:02:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>That would be okay if the b*gg*rs just kept the fonts to themselves.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the people swapping them aren\u2019t sharing the versions they get by extracting
    them from PDFs. They use stolen credit card numbers to buy them and post the originals."
  created: '2010-03-02 20:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...would I be out of bounds naming this new font after Villu Toots?</em>\r\n\r\nIMO,
    script fonts should be named after the calligrapher's work on which they are based.\r\nI
    named Duffy Script after Amanda Duffy, and she likes the idea.\r\nThe worst thing
    you could do is name it something silly, like Hairspray instead of Steinweiss
    Script."
  created: '2010-03-02 21:32:53'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>For the record, the MyFonts type tester allows you to set the text and
    background colours from a colour wheel</em>\r\n\r\nHave you noticed how it is
    virtually impossible to set the color to either pure white or pure black?"
  created: '2010-03-02 22:30:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Have you noticed how it is virtually impossible to set the color to
    either pure white or pure black?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nWho cares!"
  created: '2010-03-03 02:26:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Who cares!\r\n\r\nThe eBayers and scrapbookers who use font testers to set
    text for use on eBay and scrapbooks. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a2e49239b1945d8b12c710b7461d5c_4327.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/583b061d6ac8192140f05d9cd93ce0_6104.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-03 02:46:30'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Since I got off track a bit with the naming fonts question... I've started
    a new topic. \r\n\r\nPlease see, \"In the name of Villu Toots\"\r\n\r\nRob"
  created: '2010-03-03 07:00:01'
date: '2010-02-28 01:29:56'
title: How well does selling fonts pay?

---
