---
author:
  name: apankrat
body: "In the light of [[http://typophile.com/node/67790|this thread]] I just remembered
  this piece of news from a year ago - [[http://www.shacknews.com/onearticle.x/57308|a
  half-price sale of a game resulted in 3000% increase in sales]].\r\n\r\n&lt;quote&gt;<em>\r\n
  \   * 10% sale = 35% increase in sales (real dollars, not units shipped)\r\n    *
  25% sale = 245% increase in sales\r\n    * 50% sale = 320% increase in sales\r\n
  \   * 75% sale = 1470% increase in sales\r\n</em>&lt;/quote&gt;\r\n\r\nSome strings
  attached of course, not exactly the same product type, but still I suspect that
  those of you guys open to licensing experiments may find it quite interesting."
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Discounts do result in extra font sales, but the numbers are very different
    from first-part discounts on Steam, and the Steam model is largely irrelevant
    in comparison to fonts. This is because:\r\n\u2022 There are literally tens of
    millions of people capable of buying and playing games using a service like steam.
    The number of graphic designers in a position to actually buy fonts is in the
    tens-of-thousands. So there\u2019s a hard limit in how big a font sales spike
    can be.\r\n\u2022 Because the market for fonts is so much smaller advertising
    budgets are also much smaller. Valve spends millions of dollars to promote its
    games. No type designer can do that\u2014most type designers are making less money
    in a year than Valve spends advertising a single game. When Valve has a sale thousands
    of people are waiting for it. Not many people are just waiting for that one font
    to go on sale.\r\n\u2022 Games are inexpensive entertainment items and there is
    a constant market for them as impulse buys. Even discounted, fonts are professional
    tools and usually purchased only as needed. This is why fonts discounts happen
    mostly during August and December when the design market slows down. Discounts
    during the rest of the year just eat away at profits on sales that would occur
    anyway.\r\n\u2022 Discounts should be irrelevant to serious designers as fonts
    are professional tools and their cost should be passed along to clients. Designers
    with serious fonts budgets aren\u2019t pikers working for clients who nickel-and-dime
    everything. Constantly experimenting with pricing and promotions to try and dredge
    up some extra sales from the bottom of the barrel eats up time that could be spent
    drawing more fonts to sell to serious designers."
  created: '2010-03-01 20:25:23'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Deep discounts is a way to scoop out all fence-sitters and everyone one else
    on a tight budget who is interested in a product. You seem to be sweeping these
    people aside and focusing exclusively on "serious designers". That's your choice.
  created: '2010-03-01 21:41:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There are not that many "fence sitters" and many of them are not interested
    in the work that goes into making a respectable font. Even if you achieved 100%
    of the type market with a 75% price cut, you would be nowhere near a 1470% increase
    in sales.
  created: '2010-03-01 21:43:13'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Chris, I can tell you that I have a wish list of about 20 typefaces at the
    moment. And even though I don't need any of them I would gladly buy a half of
    the list if it went on a 50% sale.\r\n\r\nWith regards to \"not that many fence
    sitters\" - if you have actual numbers, I would be very interested to look at
    them. Otherwise the only way to gauge them is to try.\r\n\r\nAlso, keep in mind
    that this is a short once-a-long-while event. Deep discounts cannot be permanent,
    because <em>that</em> will just kill the regular sales.\r\n\r\n(edit) PS. I am
    not advocating this approach by any means. It may or may not work. It may or may
    not be a lot of effort for too little benefit. But the reason I posted this in
    the first place was that I can see this working on me. I would buy some typefaces
    that I would have not ever purchased otherwise."
  created: '2010-03-01 22:04:19'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Buy 10 typefaces for 100% and make you and the designers happy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-01 22:19:44'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Alex\r\n\r\nAs others have mentioned, the type craving market is small, and
    while you might have a list of 10 fonts, 99.99% of the world does not.\r\n\r\nI
    used to sell newspaper advertising. It bothered me when people would put an ad
    in the paper, and then complain that it didn't boost sales. I tried to impress
    on them that ads work best when the message they have is noteworthy, like a significant
    sales deal.\r\n\r\nI think the other thing works just as well. You can cut prices
    75%, but there will be no reaction unless people are made aware of the discount,
    and it is something that is in demand. The problem is, as others have said, that
    fonts are not heavily advertised.\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting if one of the
    font retailers like FontShop or MyFonts was to run a weekly sale. I suspect that
    it would result in increased sales. The big question would be: how much?"
  created: '2010-03-02 13:58:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Chris, I can tell you that I have a wish list of about 20 typefaces
    at the moment.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo use them in 20 designs and charge them to your
    clients."
  created: '2010-03-02 15:23:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I don't buy fonts as often as I'd like to primarily because I do mostly web
    stuff these days. But I have made impulse purchases over the last couple of years...one
    being James' Recovery (it was at an easy 'impulse buy' price point) and several
    from Dino's DSType when they had a large sale. Granted, DSType's wares were getting
    a lot of awareness before the sale, which probably helped.\r\n\r\nSo, anyways,
    I am but one fence sitter.\r\n\r\nI think the 'non piker serious client' designer
    is a valid market just as much as the 'freelancer who has an eye on a few faces
    just because they really like them' market. I think one can market to both using
    the occasional discount model. Designer A needs a face when they need it. They
    have the budget to buy it at that point. Designer B doesn't need a particular
    face, but would like to have it if/when they see a discount. \r\n\r\nIt's sort
    of like airfare. M-F the airlines charge what they want as most business travelers
    will pay whatever because they have to get from point a to point b. Tourists can
    get a discount by flying weekends and waiting for that occasional discount on
    a non-full flight. "
  created: '2010-03-02 15:30:29'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>So use them in 20 designs and charge them to your clients.</em>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    that's not an option. I am my own client.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\n<em>It would be interesting
    if one of the font retailers like FontShop or MyFonts was to run a weekly sale.
    I suspect that it would result in increased sales. The big question would be:
    how much?</em>\r\n\r\nI assumed that MyFonts allowed for setting font discounts
    already, and I further assumed that pretty much every reasonably active foundry
    has a Twitter/Facebook/etc account. If they are in fact going to run a 3 day 50%
    sale event, the news <em>will</em> spread. The deeper the discount, the more the
    viral effect is going to be. \r\n\r\nI do however agree that it is likely to work
    much better for the pricier fonts that are already well-marketed and that are
    in demand."
  created: '2010-03-02 22:38:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I try to strike a balance between designing/making fonts, and marketing them.\r\nWith
    a little time left over for Typophile, which I find more interesting than Twitter
    or Facebook.\r\nMy business philosophy does not include discounting, for various
    reasons."
  created: '2010-03-02 22:52:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>It would be interesting if one of the font retailers like FontShop or
    MyFonts was to run a weekly sale. I suspect that it would result in increased
    sales. The big question would be: how much?</em>\r\n\r\nA few months back, MyFonts
    sent out a newsletter promoting ten fonts under ten dollars each\u2014not a sale,
    simply the regular retail price. Two of my $7.95 fonts were among the ten spotlighted.
    The result? For me, over $5,000 in gross sales for one week..."
  created: '2010-03-02 22:56:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, I wish they had included one of my fonts!\r\nParadigm Standard sells
    for $9, but not a lot of interest in it -- I conclude that it would have been
    better to make it a freebie, with the upgrade to the Pro version being the money-maker.
    Perhaps I don't publicize it enough."
  created: '2010-03-02 23:03:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nDon't be shy: let the folks at MyFonts know about this hidden
    gem. They were VERY pleased with the overall results of the promotion, and are
    likely to repeat it."
  created: '2010-03-02 23:13:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A few months back, MyFonts sent out a newsletter promoting ten fonts
    under ten dollars each\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe we should lobby MyFonts to let
    us plan our discounts far in advance to all coincide with a monthly discounts
    newsletter. The MyFonts mailing list is probably a much better option than hoping
    word will spread through designers, because MyFonts will hit a LOT of non-designers.
    I would be more interested in discounting with some serious promotion behind it."
  created: '2010-03-03 00:46:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"because MyFonts will hit a LOT of non-designers\"\r\n\r\nMaybe worthy of
    a separate thread, but out of curiosity, any idea how much of one's fonts that
    are sold go to working professional graphic/media designers vs. other fields? "
  created: '2010-03-03 02:39:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-04 16:53:31'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I'm a freelancer, for the moment, anyway, with a list of about 20 fonts I'ld
    like to buy for myself. I graduated 2 years ago, and perhaps unlike a lot of people
    out there my age, I DON'T think everything on the Internet should be free. But
    considering the current job market and my all around poorness, a good enough discount
    would probably be the tipping point to me buying a font that I just want to have.
    Some are simply way to expensive and a discount isn't going to help, but others...\r\n\r\nBtw
    Shinn you'll be pleased to know your Eunoia Reg. & Round are on my list."
  created: '2010-03-04 21:07:27'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Here's another take on the same idea - http://www.humblebundle.com - this
    one with the real-time numbers.\r\n\r\nOh, and at least two of these games - Braid
    and Machinarium - are really <em>really</em> good. Do check them out :)"
  created: '2010-12-15 19:06:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Who purchases typefaces?\r\n\r\nPeople who buy videogames buy them <em>with
    their own money</em>. So a discount makes a big difference to them, and impulse
    purchases are a normal phenomenon in that market - because a game is something
    one can have a lot of fun with.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to typefaces, the way I see
    it, the market is broken down into a number of segments.\r\n\r\nOne group is ordinary
    computer users who would like to have a selection of typefaces to use on their
    laser printer - other than the limited number that comes with their operating
    system, or the somewhat greater number that comes with Microsoft Office.\r\n\r\nIf
    they purchase Corel Draw, or their computer came with Corel Office, their font
    requirements would mostly be met, because they would have professional versions
    of pretty well all the old standbys - Garamond, Baskerville, Palatino, Optima,
    Cooper Black, Hobo, Papyrus - and would not see a need to obtain more.\r\n\r\nThe
    people who would consider spending even $20, never mind $200, for a typeface like
    Williams Caslon, Starling, Times Ten, Goodchild or even Stone... work for art
    departments and the like. They're not spending their own money, and they are purchasing
    typefaces for the specific requirements of a job. Yes, there is a possibility
    of buying a few typefaces on spec if it's anticipated they'll be useful multiple
    times in future work, adding to its perceived quality - but price elasticity is
    still far lower in this kind of market.\r\n\r\nThis situation may change in future,
    if typefaces somehow become perceived as more of a fun thing to play with. For
    example, I could see more ordinary people being in the market for fonts if they
    were:\r\n\r\na) more likely to be licensed for, and\r\nb) easier to be used in\r\n\r\nweb
    pages.\r\n\r\nThus, I think that font foundries are acting soundly by not perceiving
    the likely results of discounts to be anything like those which would apply in
    the video game field.\r\n\r\nThis is not to say that they're necessarily selling
    an awful lot at high prices either; it seems to me that there are a lot of commercial
    typefaces out there, only a limited portion of which will ever achieve any significant
    success. But since there are many typefoundries that appear to be thriving businesses,
    throwing up their hands and quitting the business doesn't appear to be the necessary
    solution. They're managing, and they will monitor market conditions and respond
    to them with due caution."
  created: '2010-12-15 23:47:51'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "You a painter? You buy paint. You a designer? You buy fonts.\r\nYou a poor
    painter? Make your own paint out of dirt and stuff. You a poor designer? Change
    careers. Or make your own fonts."
  created: '2010-12-16 00:02:13'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "\"You a poor designer? Change careers.\"\r\n\r\nThere would hardly be anyone
    left."
  created: '2010-12-16 04:46:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>There would hardly be anyone left.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m pretty sure
    there would be a lot of well-off people left if we could chase off all the people
    who work for table scraps. Ann Landers used to say that people can only take advantage
    of you if you let them, and designers should think about that when the clients
    are trying to nickel and dime every job down to a tiny sliver of a margin."
  created: '2010-12-16 05:41:00'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>Thus, I think that font foundries are acting soundly by not perceiving
    the likely results of discounts to be anything like those which would apply in
    the video game field.</em>\r\n\r\nIf I may direct you to <a href=http://typophile.com/node/67915#comment-398751>my
    own reply</a> to James back in March."
  created: '2010-12-16 08:03:08'
- author:
    name: RadioB
    picture: 120717
  body: "can someone send me a message if DTL fonts ever go on sale:>\r\n\r\nin my
    very humble opinion I don't think fonts should go on sale"
  created: '2010-12-16 08:05:08'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "James, you are right.\r\n\r\nI'm sometimes guilty of eating table scraps,
    yet I do manage to purchase fonts. And I don't always buy them for a specific
    job. For example Actium: I keep going back and looking at it and my consumerist
    impulses grow in proportion to my available credit."
  created: '2010-12-16 19:28:33'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "When I saw LiebeErika in this thread (http://typophile.com/node/75530), I
    really liked it but didn't buy it.\r\n\r\nWhen I saw LiebeErika @ 25% off, quite
    by chance, I bought it.\r\n\r\nI suggested a while ago that MyFonts put on sale
    the same fonts featured in their monthly newsletter. "
  created: '2010-12-17 19:01:41'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/CamelsandRubberDuckies.html\r\n\r\nA
    highly recommended read if you are trying to decide between $5 and $45 per weight."
  created: '2012-03-16 17:10:11'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: <a href="https://twitter.com/#!/Typophile/status/180721211708407808">Tweet
    tweet.</a>
  created: '2012-03-16 18:27:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{To Follow}'
  created: '2012-03-16 18:33:16'
- author:
    name: inkexit
  body: "As to selling our own work, I would just like to say that people will value
    cheap things cheaply, and expensive things expensively.\r\n\r\nThere are exceptions
    to this rule of course, but in general it holds up."
  created: '2012-03-17 11:42:29'
- author:
    name: zachhinkle
  body: "I think the way some of us think about the value and distribution of fonts
    is a bit draconian.\r\n\r\nWe all agree that people's hard work is valuable, and
    that good fonts are worth money. That isn't debatable.\r\n\r\nWhat Steam does
    for videogames is outstanding. Steam sells millions of games in an age of piracy
    and penny pinching. People happily spend their hard earned money on games because
    the games are good and the prices are amazing. Steam's christmas sale, for example,
    had games from 60-90% off. Good games too. I personally purchased dozens of games
    that I haven't even played yet just for the fact that they were great games and
    the prices would never be cheaper. \r\n\r\nDo video games take a lot of time,
    talent, and resources to create? Yes. Are good videogames worth money? Yes. Are
    the distributors, creators, developers, or game community the lesser for selling
    their games at a heavy discount? Absolutely not.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a great font like
    Bembo isn't something I would purchase. I have other nice serifs that do a fine
    job. Now, if the Bembo family went on say for say, $20 I would be extremely likely
    to purchase it because it becomes an incredible value for me.\r\n\r\nDiscounted
    sales on fonts would be huge and I support the idea 100%."
  created: '2012-03-17 14:15:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good observations and points.\r\n\r\nTo me the main problem with discounting
    is people\r\ncome to expect it, and wait for it. It's extremely hard\r\nto ever
    bring your prices back up (if you ever want to).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-17 14:34:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Discounting, as a business strategy, is always a numbers game. Is the decrease
    in margin made up for by the increase in volume?\r\n\r\nThis is never a simple
    question, except in hindsight."
  created: '2012-03-17 15:22:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The issue is the maximum size of the total market.  Example:\r\n\r\nItem
    1: Toilet paper; Max market: 99% of worlds population\r\n\r\nItem 2: Average Font;
    Max market: 0.001% of worlds population\r\n\r\nItem 3: Typical Computer Game;
    Max market: 15% of worlds population\r\n\r\n\r\nI am not saying my figures are
    very accurate,  I am just saying the orders of magnitude is reasonably close."
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: So maybe the right strategy is to repurpose some of my test specimens as
      toilet paper!
    created: '2012-03-17 17:30:57'
  created: '2012-03-17 16:42:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When FontFont released Ernestine* in mid-December they offered\r\nit at 75%
    off for two weeks. From what I can tell that was the first\r\ntime they tried
    this. I'm not permitted to share the numbers, but\r\napparently FF was happy with
    the results. Personally I'm waiting\r\nfor the 2012-Q1 numbers to see whether
    getting the publicity and\r\nan established base out there has had a domino effect
    (although it\r\nmight still be too early). In any case, to me it's much better
    to offer\r\na steep discount either at the very beginning of a typeface's life
    or\r\nafter it flatlines; the last thing you want is customers watching and\r\nwaiting
    for discounts...\r\n\r\n* http://ernestinefont.com/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-17 17:46:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It seems to me that there are about 4 kinds of type buyers:\r\n\r\n1. The
    big guys who buy lots of seats and often custom fonts.  They need more exclusivity
    to ensure brand imprint. They need broad worldwide language support and numerous
    weights along with support and back up. They frequently work with established
    houses that can come to them with options, do testing, and offer after sales service.\r\n\r\n2.
    Large publishers or advertising groups who may need some exclusivity but for a
    shorter time span and perhaps not quite in the custom market. but need a bit of
    hand-holding. Need good language support but perhaps only one script.\r\n\r\n3.
    Graphic designers, freelancers, smaller publishing shops, who need very little
    supplier input but have much price negotiation with their own clients.  They may
    not need exclusivity but they can make multiple uses out of one purchase for work
    after the initial use of the type. Some students edge in to this area who will
    shortly carry their catalogue of type to freelance usage. This group needs a broad
    range of things but not always.  They may need display faces with limited weights
    but book faces with a broader spectrum of choices.  They don't expect to pay for
    after purchase service but need rock-solid products which just plain work as expected.
    Reasonable price but with expectations for multiple use drive them but mostly,
    their client's needs.\r\n\r\n4. One timers, hobbyists, scrap bookers and some
    students who just like the stuff but may never be in a position to make money
    from it. These folks have limited language requirement and limited weight usage.
    \ They buy on a whim and assume type should be almost free. They make no money
    from type, it is more recreational for them. Quality is often not recognized by
    this group and the certainly make use of free type. They are the least technically
    savvy and may not even be sure how to load a font and determine if it is working
    properly. Cheap price and high novelty drive them.\r\n\r\nDoes one price fit all?
    \ No... But neither does value and quality and service.\r\n\r\nIf you want to
    make money on volume, design type for group 4. Make it cheap and don't dwell on
    it much.  Think of it as a consumable with little longevity and  no sense of quality.
    Release very often and batch bunches of your older faded stock with slash/cut
    sales. You don't need a sales force or much of a craftsman's sense of pride to
    sell here.\r\n\r\nFor number one, big guys, you need a core of operations that
    can handle these clients--in other words an investment in staff, and capital as
    well as a good base of connections and clients who \"know you\".  You can make
    money here too but you need a big investment to do well. The work must be quality
    work but not too leading edge to appeal to the market.  This is a collaborative
    approach. You need to understand business and be able to work with different sets
    of people.  This is not the place for someone who just wants to design nice type.
    \ This is a place for a business head and a process thinker who has access to
    all the other pieces of the puzzle.\r\n\r\nThe other two groups are tougher to
    pin down because boundaries get fuzzy quickly. These guys want great design because
    that is what they assume they do. They need a mix of both innovative and workhorse
    type. They need to be able to more than cover type costs with usage but do not
    have deep pockets.  They prize quality highly but can't afford boutique prices.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is the most lucrative market? Depends on who you are as supplier. Can you deliver
    the goods that are needed? Can you support the client segment? do you have access
    to the client segment in a usable way? What satisfies you? in the \"make money
    vs design great type for your own sense of pride\" continuum. You have to know
    who you are and what motivates you as well as who your market is and what motivates
    them.\r\n\r\nAlign yourself with the market that fits you.  Are you a big profit
    guy or a \"love of craft guy\"?  You need to go for the mix that you can live
    with as a person and live on as a human being. Mix and match if that is you but
    realize that every venture has some sort of price for some sort of reward.  The
    price and reward can be either monetary or pride, whatever floats your boat.  Just
    be able to accept what you wish and work for with all of its ramifications.\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-17 19:47:49'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Stop with Stream, just stop. Forget about the games. Don't anchor there,
    look at a larger picture.\r\n\r\nThere are different categories of buyers, <em>especially</em>
    for such a niche product as fonts. If you are pricing your fonts too high, you
    are aiming at agencies and missing out on individuals. If you are pricing your
    fonts too low, you are getting to the \"mass market\", but commoditizing the font,
    making it less appealing to the larger agencies. Why you guys are so resistant
    to the idea of scooping up low-budget buyers once a year with a deep discount
    sale (not 5-15%, but 50%... something that would make an impulsive purchase an
    <em>absolute</em> no-brainer) - that frankly I don't understand. $60 per weight
    should get you a flow of well-budgeted customers, and $5/weight would get you
    a burst of those who are ready to pay you less, but pay no less. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    this is an excellent opportunity to develop a mailing-list (or Twitter, or Facebook)
    following that can be further used to market new designs and what nots. Just put
    a small plug on a website saying \"we have a deep discount sale once a year, sign
    up if interested\". Guess how many of those who really like the font, but find
    it too pricey will <em>not</em> sign up? A rhetorical question."
  created: '2012-03-18 00:42:37'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: .
  created: '2012-03-18 03:38:22'
date: '2010-03-01 19:05:45'
title: 3000% Increase in Sales

---
