---
author:
  name: octoploid
  picture: 109535
body: "Is it just me or does Ubuntu's new logo font look almost identical to DTL-Prokyon?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4404309805_8a68ef1201_o_6559.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/4405062968_93c20bf7b4_o_4793.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: 'And your point is? As long as the design studio had a license for Prokyon,
    they can modify and use it as they like. '
  created: '2010-03-04 08:14:26'
- author:
    name: octoploid
    picture: 109535
  body: "My fear is that they do not have a license at all.\r\n\r\nOne of their developers
    said:\r\n\xBBWe will be providing the new font, images, colour specs, and a set
    of recommendations for creating branding for websites, t-shirts and the other
    needs of our community\xAB\r\nhttp://www.jonobacon.org/2010/03/03/refreshing-the-ubuntu-brand/\r\n\r\nI
    cannot imagine that DTL has agreed to open source Prokyon and to distribute it
    without restrictions. "
  created: '2010-03-04 08:25:12'
- author:
    name: kari.patila
    picture: 119161
  body: "There was a brief discussion on the subject at LWN.net, but it was quickly
    dismissed:\r\n\r\n<cite>Typefaces are not copyrightable. You can 'rip them off'
    all you feel like and it's completely and perfectly legal. There is a long history
    behind of this and it exists for good reason. (The modern concept of 'IP' is just
    flat-out insane.)</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Now the actual scalable font _implementation_,
    the *.ttf file or whatever, would be copyrightable (for good reasons) (but not
    bitmap fonts, maybe ironically). As long as you made your own fonts from scratch
    you'd be fine. You can copy whatever typeface you want, but the actual font is
    something you'd have to make on your own.</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://lwn.net/Articles/377120/"
  created: '2010-03-04 09:06:32'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Typefaces are not copyrightable</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is valid for the
    USA. Not so in Europe."
  created: '2010-03-04 09:44:13'
- author:
    name: moyogo
    picture: 111086
  body: The typeface used in the presented new Xubuntu logo is different from that
    in the new Ubuntu logo. The 't' and the 'n' are different. I guess they are still
    working on some things. This seems to be the modification of a Sans-Serif font
    to look like DTL Prokyon or Dax.
  created: '2010-03-04 12:02:54'
- author:
    name: octoploid
    picture: 109535
  body: "This is a direct comparison (blue DTL-Prokyon, black new Ubuntu logo).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/font_3992.png]"
  created: '2010-03-04 12:32:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: It is plagiarism (of an ugly typeface), but it will not have juridical consequences,
    especially not, if the judges have a sense of taste.
  created: '2010-03-04 13:02:51'
- author:
    name: Scott Thatcher
    picture: 111324
  body: "I was interested in the typeface similarities as well.  Here's a [[http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/03/03/refreshing-the-ubuntu-brand/comment-page-2/#comment-136105|response]]
    from Jono Bacon to a comment asking a similar question on his blog:\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    font will be openly licensed and is still in production and not expected to be
    fully completed until the end of March. The font designer, who is apparently one
    of the best font designers in the world, focused on the letters for the Ubuntu
    wordmark, hence things being a little different.</cite>\r\n\r\nst"
  created: '2010-03-04 21:55:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: now i'm curious as to who this mysterious designers is, who is 'apparently
    one of the best font designers in the world'.
  created: '2010-03-05 01:22:37'
- author:
    name: skoob
  body: "Apparently, [[http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/308|Dalton Maag]]
    (scroll down almost to the end of the post) are doing the work.\r\n\r\nNote that,
    as far as I can tell, the designs displayed are most certainly works in progress
    rather than finished designs. Ubuntu is after all supposed to be an open community
    project."
  created: '2010-03-05 02:19:35'
- author:
    name: davidmarshall
    picture: 117748
  body: "Apparently the secret is out now - yes, we're responsible for the design.
    And no, of course it's not plagiarized - like all of our custom designs it was
    drawn from scratch with no reference to any existing font.\r\n\r\nWhile there
    are superficial and coincidental similarities between the handful of characters
    you've seen, the rhythm, proportions, and details are completely different between
    the two fonts.\r\n\r\nReports that this is not the final version of the logo are
    correct - the final version depends on the typeface currently in development -
    but this is a good indication of the direction in which we're heading.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Marshall\r\nDalton Maag Ltd"
  created: '2010-03-05 09:46:47'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I have the impression that this is not plagiarism.\r\nTo be fair, these are
    just the kind of shapes you come up with on the basis of that concept.\r\nAs far
    as I am aware, this concept was first explored by [[Hans Reichel]] anyway, both
    Prokyon and the Ubuntu font seem to be inspired by his work (and its success).\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-05 10:15:51'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: We can discuss if making 'look alike' fonts is plagiarism or not. What is
    out of discussion is that it is not an original work. It is just playing (very
    little) around other people's ideas.
  created: '2010-03-05 10:24:36'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>It is just playing (very little) around other people's ideas.</cite>\r\nWhat
    I was trying to point out is that in this case \"other people\" is clearly Hans
    Reichel."
  created: '2010-03-05 10:24:59'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: If FOSS folks want their Free Font Movement to take off, it's about time they
    start <a href="http://kernest.com/ ">eating</a> <a href="http://www.openfontlibrary.org/">their</a>
    <a href="http://betatype.com/node/36">own</a> <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eating_one's_own_dog_food">dogfood</a>...
  created: '2010-03-05 10:29:52'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "I don't think it's accurate to say that \u201Cthis concept was first explored
    by Hans Reichel\u201D.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/fountaineer/278176955/in/set-72157594342848887/\">Semplicita</a>
    (pictured also in Fred Smeijers' \u201CType Now\u201D, page 37) and several Bauhaus
    alphabets explored the same sort of formal reduction long before."
  created: '2010-03-05 10:46:09'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: <a href="http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/berthold/gerstner-bq/">Gerstner Original,
    1987</a>
  created: '2010-03-05 11:07:38'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for these links, Gustavo, they are very iteresting indeed. It almost
    looks like this thread is turning from polemics to something useful.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    don't think it's accurate to say that \u201Cthis concept was first explored by
    Hans Reichel\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nLooks like you have proven me wrong. In my first
    post above I was cautious enough to say \"As far as I am aware\", should have
    stuck to that. Maybe we can agree that Reichel was the one who popularised that
    style?\r\n\r\nOther, even older examples would be Gill Sans, especially the italic,
    and Joanna."
  created: '2010-03-05 11:41:00'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "Sorry for missing your note of caution in my reply, Tim.\r\nI agree Dax has
    popularized this style.\r\nI think some of Unger's work hints in this direction
    too (Swift, Argo), but maybe that's just my eyes..."
  created: '2010-03-05 11:51:14'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skia_(typeface)">Skia, 1993</a>
  created: '2010-03-05 12:33:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'In a thread discussing Dax quite a few years ago Mike Yanega pointed out
    that the ''stemless'' or ''spurless'' style goes back at least to [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/elsnerflake/bernhard_gothic/|Bernhard
    Gothic]], from 1930.  '
  created: '2010-03-05 13:03:21'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "The somewhat generic joint of stem and shoulder can already be found in Rund
    Grotesk aka Kristall Grotesk. Its history is Grotesk (Wagner &amp; Schmidt, Leipzig,
    ca 1920) aka Universal (Staatsdruckerei Prag, since 1922) aka Polar Grotesk (J
    John S&ouml;hne, Hamburg, since 1930) aka Rund Grotesk (C E Weber, Stuttgart,
    since 1931) aka Kristall Grotesk (Norddeutsche Schriftgie&szlig;erei, Berlin,
    since 1937, and later also Johannes Wagner, Ingolstadt).*\r\nSee <a href=\"http://www.kltf.de/stuff/wagner_kristall_grotesk.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">this scan</a> of an undated but obviously rather 'new' Kristall
    Grotesk specimen by Johannes Wagner.** The generic joint seems to be the default
    'u' in all sizes. The 28p shows this in the 'n' too. Unfortunately I do not have
    specimens of the older versions of this typeface, so cannot check if this visual
    feature can be found there too, and in which letters.\r\n\r\nIf a logo relies
    on this visual feature alone, this does not necessarily constitute plagiarism,
    given that this feature has quite a history already. What disappoints me more
    is that not long after Prokyon's appearance, at least two other typefaces showed
    up which merely said, 'me too! me too!'\r\nDax predates Prokyon but due to its
    odd proportions and roundness is more of a fancy display face, as are Bernhard
    Gothic and Gerstner Original, while Prokyon is a 'serious' text face of quite
    a different character and quality.\r\n\r\n* Bertheau, Hanebutt-Benz, Reichardt:
    <em>Buchdruckschriften im 20. Jahrhundert</em>, Technische Hochschule Darmstadt,
    1995, captions on pp 191 and 281.\r\n\r\n** Lettern-Service Ingolstadt / Schriftgie&szlig;erei
    Joh[annes] Wagner: <em>Kristall Grotesk (Rund-Grotesk)</em>, n.d."
  created: '2010-03-05 13:49:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The reductionist approach had been going on since before World War I and
    is not news. It is just another way of looking at letterforms--fair game for use
    and abuse like any other construction. I began doing it in college in the 1960s
    and more recently, developed a family (yet to be released) in 2005 called \"Dez
    Superego\" I by no means claim to be the first. I also did not look at any other
    type when I was doing Superego so perhaps this is not such an impossible coincidence
    for Dalton Maag to have something similar as well?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/3157744858/in/set-72157611971349634/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ubuntu-in-Superego_6685.png]"
  created: '2010-03-05 15:05:56'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "FWIW, Stephen has compiled a list of <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/genres/stemless_sans_serif/\">Spurless
    Sans Serif typefaces</a>. Unsurprisingly, he didn\u2019t include <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/610294/aeonis-family.html\">Aeonis</a>,
    which I assume to be one of the \u2018Me too\u2019 faces Karsten has mentioned."
  created: '2010-03-05 18:21:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I know there was a reference here not long ago to some free font being plagiarized
    from (can't find the reference now; not Hermes, but has some letters like its
    lowercase u) but that font looks very similar to DIN. If every sans-serif font
    which looks squarish but has rounded corners is plagiarism, design space will
    shrink.
  created: '2010-03-05 18:42:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A lot depends on the taste, knowledge and discretion of clients and designers,
    to choose fonts which add more to the pot than they take.
  created: '2010-03-05 18:48:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Stephen's list include FF Signa, in which only the a and d are \u2018spurless\u2019.
    If this meets the criteria of selection, then Adobe's corporate <a href=\"http://www.labnol.org/software/adobe-corporate-font-clean/8663/\">Clean</a>
    type may be added to the list."
  created: '2010-03-05 19:30:26'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hi Florian, I did not know Aeonis before reading your comment.&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n\r\nMr
    Savard, when you say, <cite>if every sans-serif font which looks squarish but
    has rounded corners is plagiarism, design space will shrink</cite>, this is too
    much of a carricature.\r\nDoing something similar to something existing is not
    per se plagiarism. It is more about doing something too similar, which 'too' is
    defined by context -- the context of other typefaces. As long as there is only
    one crisp text face with said special stem-to-shoulder solution, then if someone
    else designs a crisp text face using said stem-to-shoulder solution too (even
    if a number of letters differ), then it is evident that this someone merely wanted
    to do \"something like this\". But once there are five or six typefaces sharing
    common characteristics, then you may speak of a genre, these typefaces constitute
    a new design space: The existence of many similar typefaces forces us to spot
    (and create) even finer differences <em>within</em> this design space which actually
    broadens this particular design space. For example, there are quite a number of
    typefaces of the AG genre, or of the DIN genre, and it seems still possible to
    come up with new facets within these genres or bridging two or more such genres."
  created: '2010-03-05 20:41:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A lot of the typefaces mentioned don't fit the category.\r\nWhat we're talking
    about is a sub-genre of \"pruned stem\" where the standard join between vertical
    stem and curve is around 70\u02DA- 80\u02DA. So types with 0\u02DA or 90\u02DA
    joins don't count.\r\nNeither do those where only the odd character has such a
    join."
  created: '2010-03-05 21:15:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: :)
  created: '2010-03-05 21:21:19'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "It\u2019s not piracy, but a genre. Sorry, but if this is a genre only, I
    prefer the honesty of pirates. Except from that I think, that Blackbeard would
    have kicked Prokyon and the whole genre over board."
  created: '2010-03-05 23:15:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: How can it be piracy if you have never seen the other fonts to copy?
  created: '2010-03-05 23:36:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nI doubt, that the designer of the Ubuntu typeface does not
    have Prokyon stored on his harddisk and did not have a deep look into it in FontLab."
  created: '2010-03-06 00:10:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I don't think so.
  created: '2010-03-06 00:32:38'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I doubt, that the designer of the Ubuntu typeface does not have Prokyon
    stored on his harddisk and did not have a deep look into it in FontLab.</cite>\r\n\r\nArno,
    is it really that difficult to believe that one could independently produce such
    letter shapes given even passing familiarity with the spurless look? I've looked
    at Prokyon only in passing a long time ago, but if someone asked me to draw a
    logo for Ubuntu in Prokyon's style, I would have no trouble producing these kinds
    of shapes. Even if I had never seen Prokyon but merely had some general exposure
    to other spurless sans serifs, it would be easy to duplicate them. They're really
    simple shapes!\r\n\r\nAs you can follow in the thread it isn't even easy to establish
    who came up with the idea first, probably because it's such a simple idea. All
    I know is that I see spurless sans serif faces everywhere; in advertisements in
    the Paris metro, for instance.\r\n\r\nA few years ago I started designing a slab
    serif with a spurless look in some letters. I think I took the idea from the Perpetua
    'd' and made it a recurring design feature. Then I posted it to the crit board
    here, and someone pointed out the striking similarities to FF Signa, which I hadn't
    seen before.\r\n\r\nSo I know from personal experience that the same set of simple
    design ideas can result in a typeface similar to an existing one even if one hasn't
    even seen the existing design. You can knock the failure to innovate, but you
    can't throw in accusations of piracy in those cases."
  created: '2010-03-06 00:38:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Arno, I had never seen Prokyon before this thread yet my font has similarities
    to it.
  created: '2010-03-06 00:38:46'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "When I saw this thread I thought you were talking about [[Christian Robertson]]'s
    Ubuntu titling font (open source). But it's clearly not. \r\n\r\nhttp://betatype.com/node/36"
  created: '2010-03-06 03:26:35'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "Typophile hypocrisy at its finest! If it was done by FOSS community, then
    its plagiarism, ripoff and forgery. Now, we know it is by an \"established\" type
    foundry, then it is OK, we all know that no type design is original and every
    one is copying some one else, we all also know that independent type designers
    can come with very similar designs without even seeing each others work, this
    all are well known facts we all agree with.\r\n\r\nI really love this \"community\"."
  created: '2010-03-06 05:59:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Who is 'we all', Mr Hosny, and what 'community' are you talking about? Your
    insinuation that I am defending DM's work makes me smile.\r\nIf you had read my
    comment more carefully, Herr 'Enslin', you would have noticed that this is reflection
    on the notion of 'plagiarism', in response to Mr (quadibloc) Savard's remark.
    No idea what made you think that this comment is about the Ubunto logo.\r\nUnfortunately,
    the title of this thread is misleading already. A <em>logo</em> can hardly be
    a ripoff of a <em>typeface</em>. And this discussion is but the logical consequence
    ..."
  created: '2010-03-06 10:33:47'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: 'I actually have no problem with imitating someone''s else idea, that used
    to be "inspiration" and "exchange of ideas" and was fine as long as one acknowledges
    this (I personally would be more than happy if some one finds my own work so valuable
    to "rip it off"). But if people here consider this "plagiarism" and "ripoff" that
    is fine with me, just be consistent about this. If it were some random FOSS project
    who is accused for "ripoff" here, the tone of this discussion would have been
    pretty much different. '
  created: '2010-03-06 11:44:05'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Karsten\r\n\r\n<cite>As long as there is only one crisp text face with
    said special stem-to-shoulder solution, then if someone else designs a crisp text
    face using said stem-to-shoulder solution too (even if a number of letters differ),
    then it is evident that this someone merely wanted to do \"something like this\".
    But once there are five or six typefaces sharing common characteristics, then
    you may speak of a genre [\u2026]</cite>\r\n\r\nI miss the logic there. There
    are two typefaces that look very similar. And in this case it is evident, that
    the earlier one was the pattern of the later one? But in the moment a third typeface
    is created that looks very similar to both of the later ones, the evidence gets
    lost? That is not logical. And the passage that I quoted is not logical independent
    from the context.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>If you had read my comment more carefully</cite>\r\nBut
    I admit, that you are right. I had not read your post very carefully.\r\n\r\n<cite>Unfortunately,
    the title of this thread is misleading already. A logo can hardly be a ripoff
    of a typeface. And this discussion is but the logical consequence ...</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I have understood, there will come a whole Ubuntu font or font family.
    So let\u2019s wait for the other outlines of the upright style and the italic.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, my main problem with that Ubuntu typeface and Prokyon is, that more than
    one person has the bad idea to create such an ugly font. On the other side humans
    have more bad ideas than good ones. So the probability, that two persons have
    the same bad idea is higher than the probability, that two persons have the same
    good idea. In my opinion the whole genre, to which Prokyon belongs, is damn ugly.
    But you probably did not forget, that I am not a professional. Maybe you can discover
    the beauty of Prokyon only, if you are a professional. (No offence, I have a deep
    respect for the talents [in combination with the extreme patience that typedesign
    requires] of many of you!)\r\n\r\nWith regard to the simplicity of the idea (@
    Chris), simplicity is not per se a symptom of quality. Even if I would get a free
    license of Prokyon, I would not use that font. The Ubuntu typeface is a ripoff
    of a rape of beauty. It does not have a constant aesthetic temperature, but looks
    like a walk through rooms with very different temperatures. If the typeface would
    be a house, I would get the gout. It looks like tube food, where the one end of
    the tube still was in liquid nitrogen, while the other was in bathwater.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    even in science two persons have sometimes exactly the same idea, independent
    from each other, when the time for that idea has come."
  created: '2010-03-06 11:52:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "@ Mr Hosny: As said, this is an odd discussion because a logo cannot be a
    ripoff of a typeface. At worst, someone uses a typeface without a proper license
    as Ralf Hermann has already pointed out in his first comment.\r\nPutting this
    aside for a moment and pretending this <em>were</em> a discussion about a typeface
    being a plagiate of another typeface (which it is not): I do not think that the
    \"if it were some random FOSS project\" part is true. Before writing my post I
    checked two earlier \"ripoff\" discussions, both about <em>foundries</em> being
    accused of plagiarism (no FOSS there), both pretty harsh as regards the tone."
  created: '2010-03-06 12:31:26'
- author:
    name: octoploid
    picture: 109535
  body: "@ k.l.: <cite> @ Mr Hosny: As said, this is an odd discussion because a logo
    cannot be a ripoff of a typeface. At worst, someone uses a typeface without a
    proper license as Ralf Hermann has already pointed out in his first comment.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    logo is created with a font that they intend to make publicly available under
    an open source licence at the end of March..."
  created: '2010-03-06 12:54:17'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Arno said:\r\n<cite>I miss the logic there.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo me, Karsten\u2019s
    argument makes a lot of sense. As long as you have a monopoly on something, you
    would, understandably, frown upon competitors who come up with something similar.
    As soon as you are just one out of many offering \u2018the same\u2019, you need
    to bring your customers to take a closer look, and set yourself apart from others
    on a finer level. Regardless if you originally had been the first or not. \r\nOnce,
    there has been a first sans-serif.\r\n\r\nMore spurless sans-serifs that you won\u2019t
    like, and that are not in Stephen\u2019s list:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/karbon_samples.php\">Karbon</a>
    by [[Kris Sowersby]]\r\n<a href=\"http://vllg.com/Constellation/Infinity#panel=usage-poster\">Infinity</a>
    by [[Chester Jenkins]] & [[Rick Valicenti]]"
  created: '2010-03-06 13:06:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "@ Octoploid: Please have a look at <a href=\"http://www.jonobacon.org/2010/03/03/refreshing-the-ubuntu-brand/\"
    target=\"_blank\">your earlier link</a> and <a href=\"https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Brand\"
    target=\"_target\">this link</a> which show what they call \"community logos\".
    These shows words in a typeface which differs from the ubuntu logo design. See
    \"brainstorm\" and \"forums\". Since all there is right now is a logo, I am surprised
    how anybody can have strong opinions about a typeface.\r\n\r\n@ Herr 'Enslin':
    Whether you or me <em>like</em> Prokyon and co or not is completely irrelevant
    when it comes to the question of plagiarism or not."
  created: '2010-03-06 13:09:29'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "@ Florian: Exactly. What I was describing was the normal course of invention
    becoming mainstream.\r\n(Infinity to me is another genre, even more radical, with
    its completely symmetrical 'n' etc.)"
  created: '2010-03-06 13:11:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>@ Herr 'Enslin': Whether you or me like Prokyon and co or not is completely
    irrelevant when it comes to the question of plagiarism or not.</cite>\r\n\r\nHehe,
    naturally! It just was a good opportunity to say, what I think about that damn
    ugly genre. In an ideal world only the ugly things would be pirated. But unfortunately
    thiefs have the same sense of taste and humor (!) than the other humans."
  created: '2010-03-07 11:55:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_4444.png]\r\n\r\nAdobe\u2019s
    new typeface borrows a few of these ideas too."
  created: '2010-03-07 20:41:02'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I have a question:\r\n\r\nWhen I was hired in HEL Media Lab, they already
    had Diesel as a client. They had the childrens clothes line, and came up with
    Protokid, a net community based marketing system. Something quite new at 1996.\r\n\r\nThey
    had already made a logo based on Barmeno, and my first job was to take the logo,
    finish it, and I ended up with this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo_5086.png]\r\nand
    then turn it into type family. This is what I came up with:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Proto_6058.png]\r\n\r\nSo,
    are these based on Barmeno? Or are these based on a logo? I've never used Barmeno;
    I'm not a fan."
  created: '2010-03-07 22:31:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Regarding Protokid Light: if you didn\u2019t mention Barmeno my first thought
    as to your \u201Cinspiration\u201D was Burin Sans."
  created: '2010-03-14 08:44:59'
date: '2010-03-04 07:51:10'
title: "Ubuntu\u2019s new logo a DTL-Prokyon ripoff?"

---
