---
author:
  name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
  picture: 119291
body: "So as a publications teacher, I obviously think teaching students typography
  is relevant. I mean, after all, these kids will someday be the ones designing our
  magazine headlines and advertisements. I thought, heck, this has to be supported
  in our state standards for technology, right? WRONG. I found these results when
  I did a general search for typography:\r\n\r\nArizona Department of Education: 0
  results\r\nAssociation of Career and Technical Education: 1 result\r\nAssociation
  of Career and Technical Education in Arizona: 0 results\r\nElectronic Journalism
  Academic Standards: 0 results\r\nAudio/Visual Technology Academic Standards: 0 results\r\n\r\nEven
  in the class where typography SHOULD be relevant, it is not even mentioned! \r\n\r\nWhat
  do you all think? Shouldn't we be TEACHING typography to our future designers?"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Typography does not get the attention that it deserves for a few reasons:\r\n\r\n\u2022Academic
    turf battles keep it in the design departments and out of the rest. If you get
    really lucky the book arts and/or printmaking department are on good terms with
    the graphic design teachers, but chances are that they\u2019ve never met. I\u2019m
    not dumping on art or design, this is just the nature of academia.\r\n\r\n\u2022Many
    people see designers as skilled tradesmen who aren\u2019t practicing an especially
    useful skills. Plumbers, mechanics, and electricians get more respect. \r\n\r\n\u2022Honestly,
    even crap typography done in MS Word still gets the point across, even if it does
    look like shit. \r\n\r\n\u2022Most people who should know about type will end
    up working with editors and designers who can worry about it for them."
  created: '2010-03-04 04:18:19'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Double-space your essays!\r\n\r\nTimes at 12 points!\r\n\r\nUgh . . . \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-04 04:29:12'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "\"\u2022Honestly, even crap typography done in MS Word still gets the point
    across, even if it does look like shit. \"\r\n\r\nHoly shit if I get one more
    essay with Word Art on the cover page... \r\n\r\nI spend an entire 2 weeks on
    typography in my class. I show examples, teach them about types of fonts, etc.
    My students WILL know what a serif is damn it! But now that I looked into standards
    I'm like, 'why?'."
  created: '2010-03-04 04:50:48'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "My professors rarely specify that essays should be set in 12 pt. double-spaced
    Times. If they do, I just ignore their restrictions and set my essays in Minion,
    or Meta Serif, or Arno, or Chaparral if I'm feeling frisky. I've only been called
    out once, and I casually explained that I prefer to use faces that are better-suited
    to text-setting, and she acquiesced.\r\n\r\nBut back to the original topic...\r\n\r\nThe
    only typography/graphic design class at my school is being cut next year because
    of the recession. This class is one of the reasons I'm pursuing graphic design
    as a career, and I recruit my newspaper design staff directly from that class.
    The class is offered as an elective through the humanities school, which is cutting
    all courses that aren't tied to a major. We do not have a design department, and
    the visual arts department sure as hell isn't going to pick it up. Now, Rice isn't
    exactly training future graphic designers, but I do think that part of a liberal
    arts education is exposing yourself to a wide variety of disciplines. I guess
    I should be glad that a type course even existed in the first place and that I
    was able to take it before it was cut, but it's still disappointing."
  created: '2010-03-04 05:23:38'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: God that is a depressing story! I know this may be totally cliche, but every
    time I open the feature article in ESPN The Magazine, I get goosebumps. They have
    some amazing stuff going on there, but I wonder if the person who designs their
    headlines even realizes that what he/she is doing is typography. Based on what
    we're all saying, it's unlikely he/she had any kind of training in type, which
    means he/she basically just things he is doing graphic design using letters. This
    is so frustrating!
  created: '2010-03-04 06:06:08'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "I have found that in higher-level undergraduate courses (especially if class
    sizes are small) instructors tend not to care, and some actually prefer typographically-sound
    work. The problem is that by this time it might be too late for the student: first
    year course instructors have already soured the milk and students move on to upper
    levels scarcely aware that there is more freedom to be had.\r\n\r\nSadly, very
    often it's a situation that neither the student nor the instructor really cares
    to be a part of the process: \"We pretend to teach them and they pretend to learn\"
    has become the reality of the student-teacher relationship in many academic institutions.
    The Top 20% of will always nurture these relationships, but it doesn't seem to
    be enough to stem the disappointment on both sides of the lectern.\r\n\r\nE.B.
    White's works (not just the little handbook he wrote with Strunk) should be required
    reading: One Man's Meat, Second Tree from the Corner, The Points of My Compass. "
  created: '2010-03-04 15:14:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the problem you are facing is part of a larger problem that design
    is not taught as part of our cultural heritage that every person should be aware
    of. People with ambitions to be cultured do generally learn something about music
    and art and literature, but not about design. The partial exception is architecture,
    where there is some awareness. But for object design and graphic design, the awareness
    is pretty near zero. \r\n\r\nBut the fact is that we live in a designed world,
    and if we are to appreciate and improve it, we need to understand design. I think
    that's the starting point of change, but of course that's a more ambitious notion.
    \  "
  created: '2010-03-04 15:37:01'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "William- can you elaborate? I'm not sure I understand what you mean by design
    as a part of cultural heritage. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone have a link to a sample syllabus
    where they ARE teaching typography?\r\n\r\nPalatine- Thanks for the suggestions
    on the texts. I have to rather shyly admit I have never heard of those titles,
    but I will promptly look into them. Especially if any of it is something I can
    give my kiddos to read. There is such a lack of good content to give about typography.
    Anything I teach I have had to completely develop myself."
  created: '2010-03-04 16:35:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jennie, are you familiar with Elements of Typographic Style, by Robert Bringhurst?
    Great book. \r\n\r\nA lot of courses apparently use [[http://www.designwritingresearch.org/index.php?s=bookstore|Thinking
    with Type]] as a text. Ellen Lupton I see has a new book on design generally.
    I don't know either, but they have been well spoken of. \r\n\r\nOn the heritage
    of design, Bringhurst will give you some of the history on typographic design
    and type design. The recent movies by Gary Hustwitt, Helvetica--which gives a
    history of graphic design over the past 50 years, and Objectified--which does
    the same for Object design, are very good. \r\n\r\nJust as there is a history
    of design and technique and materials in Architecture, there is the same in graphic
    and object design. "
  created: '2010-03-04 16:46:54'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Face it, most professional designers are terrible typographers. And they
    always were. With the advent of the personal computer and design applications,
    professional typographers were put out of business, and all of those craftspeople
    lost their jobs, and along with their jobs went the historical knowledge and experience
    to create great typography.\r\n\r\nI started my career working in a type shop
    setting headlines on a Typositor, and I remember getting layouts and specs from
    art directors and designers with the only spec on the ms. \"Set to Fit\" or \"Make
    it look great, like the last job\". \r\n\r\nSo the fact that typographic education
    is in the crapper doesn't surprise me.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm not going to start another
    war here, but Bringhust is only relevant to book typography.\r\n\r\nAs for a book
    about the nuts and bolts craft of typography, I think \"Type Rules\" by Ilene
    Strizver is excellent. "
  created: '2010-03-04 17:10:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James M., Bringhurst is indeed focused on book typography, and classical
    taste in book design at that. But I do think that many of the ideas are applicable
    outside that field. I haven''t yet had a look at ''Type Rules'', but it looks
    good. '
  created: '2010-03-04 17:24:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "We all have our opinions on Bringhurst, I don't happen to agree with yours.\r\n\r\nI
    know Ilene is working on a new edition of \"Type Rules\", Which should be out
    in a few months. "
  created: '2010-03-04 17:35:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, is there anything specialized on graphic design for magazines or advertising?
    I have Mitchel & Wightman''s Book Design, which I think is actually better than
    Bringhurst on book design in particular. But I don''t know of what is comparable,
    if anything, for other areas of print design.   '
  created: '2010-03-04 17:47:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I always thought \"Layout\" by Allen Hulbert was a great book. I know it
    helped me out a great deal when I was starting out:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Layout-Allen-Hulbert/dp/0823026566\r\n\r\nAs
    well as his \"The Grid\":\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Grid-Modular-Production-Newpapers-Magazines/dp/047128923X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1267725344&sr=1-1\r\n\r\nThen
    there is Willi Kunz:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Typography-Macro-Microaesthetics-Willi-Kunz/dp/3721203488/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1267725540&sr=8-1\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-04 18:01:01'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "So there ARE great resources out there! Thank you!! If I had asked my graphic
    design colleagues about this, they would have had no idea what to say. \r\n\r\nI
    should mention that when I reference my students- I am talking about HIGH SCHOOL
    students. And after reading all your comments, I feel like Teacher of the Year
    for forcing them to learn content they likely would not receive in a college classroom."
  created: '2010-03-04 18:20:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, James, I''ll check those out, as I didn''t know about them. '
  created: '2010-03-04 19:15:31'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: To be fair to your students, expecting them to pick up typography as incidental
    study in high school might be asking too much. Right now I am trying to distill
    the four semesters of typography classes I had into a single semester for liberal
    arts students, and it is NOT easy. Please let us know how it works and share you
    curricula down the road!
  created: '2010-03-04 19:52:13'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "James (Puckett), if you're teaching a single-semester course, I think the
    goal should not necessarily be to bestow all of the typographic knowledge you
    can upon your students, but rather to plant in them the desire to pursue further
    study themselves. You will not succeed with every student, but I think that \u2014
    especially in a liberal arts curriculum \u2014 it is a much worthier pursuit to
    spark interest among your students than to force knowledge upon them."
  created: '2010-03-05 00:32:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I am talking about HIGH SCHOOL students\"\r\n\r\nThe issue is that we simply
    don't really teach the arts in our primary and secondary schools in the US at
    a level that it deserves. And with the arts typically being the first cut at budget
    crunch times, it's not getting any better.\r\n\r\nI had no idea that graphic design
    was even a profession until I stumbled upon it in College. \r\n\r\nSo, anyways,
    any attempt at getting more art and design education and resources to your high
    school students is commendable. "
  created: '2010-03-05 02:22:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Being a former industrial arts teacher, I'm sad to see that most \"shop\"
    classes have been purged from general education. What got me turned on to type
    were the letterpress printing classes I took all throughout high school. I took
    more printing classes than I did math or science in grades 10 through 12.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2010-03-05 14:00:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ ASUPhD: Gave the thread a quick read. A few questions to help focus:\r\n\r\n1.
    What is the level of this program? (1st year undergrad, 3rd year masters\u2026)\r\n2.
    What is the average age of your students? \r\n3. How many are they?\r\n4. What
    is their general educational background?\r\n5. What do you mean by \"publications
    teacher?\" In my world, publication design refers to designing publications such
    as books, magazines &c, which is (virtually) impossible without even some basic
    (office-admin level even) type skills. Do you perhaps mean writers more than designers?
    Perhaps an link to a syllabus would help direct the discussion."
  created: '2010-03-05 15:17:15'
- author:
    name: SilasLevi
    picture: 116874
  body: "I would recommend that beside teaching simply typography, it would behoove
    you to also teach the history of graphic design. Then your student would understand
    a wider range of important works and styles, the evolution of printing and design
    technologies. I am confused by how you separate typography from graphic design.\r\n\r\nI
    mean, of course the term graphic design is a more recent development-courtesy
    of Dwiggins in the 1920s. I think that rather than teach high school students
    mostly from one or two practitioners or authors, teaching them the history of
    typography is paramount for them to be well-rounded designers of the future or
    least get them excited about it so perhaps they make it into college. I think
    you should definitely educate them about the differing opinions about type, especially
    in the regard to Aesthetics, function, and how these opinions relate to styles
    and eras of typography and design. \r\n\r\nI think of typography as a continuum,
    driven by the evolutions and changes in taste, training, and technology. The history
    of printing and typography that I got in high school was limited to only technology
    developments, not styles, manifestos, canonical works, commercial art history,
    design criticism. All of which are possible to share with your students to make
    them truly better designers. I think you should teach them the rules, the history
    of the rules, then let them find their own way to use them, to develop their own
    methodologies for typography.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-05 16:16:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have a feeling that with high school kids you are going to first need to
    raise awareness of the challenge of good design, and what it is. You can do this
    by having them design eg posters, fliers, stationary--anything they are actually
    like to have done, or want to do for practical purposes as a student. Then you
    can critique them, with \"before\" and \"after\" examples. The book Looking Good
    in Print has nice 'before' and 'after' stuff showing amateur mistakes. \r\n\r\nOnce
    kids are \"into it\" they will then be open to more formal study.  "
  created: '2010-03-05 16:21:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Lighten up guys. Plenty of time for all that later. Getting middle school
    and high school students to simply make stuff with their own hands will go a long
    way to instill interest. By all means let them make amateur mistakes. After all
    they are amateurs!
  created: '2010-03-05 17:52:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, I agree with you that making stuff with their own hands is the main
    thing. But don''t you think that also showing them better and worse work, and
    critiquing their stuff is appropriate for learning?  '
  created: '2010-03-05 17:57:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think you have to be very careful when critiquing work of young students.
    Showing good and not so good work is one thing, but a critique is a powerful thing
    that has to be approached very very carefully.
  created: '2010-03-05 19:04:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It is a challenge to set high standards for students to shoot for, but avoid
    discouraging students, which tragically all too often happens. I was impressed
    when I saw Pavarotti on TV doing a master class. He was very appreciative of the
    students, and then made positive suggestions for improvement, without any explicit
    criticism. I thought that was touching, and a good model. Of course those were
    advanced students. \r\n\r\nDo you have any guidelines you try to follow?"
  created: '2010-03-05 19:18:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Maestro Pavarotti understood. That is the model.
  created: '2010-03-05 20:00:51'
- author:
    name: creamdonut
    picture: 119140
  body: This is a great reference topic. I'd like to say that both Thinking With Type
    and Lettering & Type have some cool exercises that can easily raise typographical
    awareness to high schoolers.
  created: '2010-03-06 01:05:47'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "<em>I think you have to be very careful when critiquing work of young students.
    </em>\r\n\r\nMaybe little kids, yes, but learning critical thinking in High School
    is something that isn't emphasized enough. I know I wish I'd had more of it and
    I was in AP art classes where our work was often critiqued.\r\n\r\nI think the
    lack of design savvy is a big problem. For example, here in Denver the Art Museum
    has 2 rooms that feature design, one that is pre-20th Century and one that is
    20th Century. Not floors, but rooms. Out of 2 buildings that's the best they can
    do? Granted, it's not a design museum, but design is part of the arts. Not in
    it's execution, but in the results.\r\n\r\nNot to mention that there are people
    who are in the graphic design field who don't know the difference between serif
    and sans serif. I can understand someone outside of design being uneducated about
    typography, but not an actual designer!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-07 01:43:43'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Do you teach? \r\n\r\nI do, and regardless of the age one must alway understand
    how powerful a critique of someones work is. I never said anything about de-emphasizing
    critical thinking. I just want to stress how all of this must be done in a mindful
    way."
  created: '2010-03-07 02:36:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Socrates died many years ago but his method of engaging a student is a dialogue
    and asking them questions which systematically get the student to arrive at the
    answer out of his own mouth worked well for me in my teaching days years ago.\r\nBTW
    I met Willi Kunz years ago while I was in graduate school. He was teaching undergraduates
    and had a good method of dialogue in his critiques. I highly recommend both of
    his books--also Emil Ruder's \"Typography\".\r\nI also echo James M on Bringhurst,
    he does not demonstrate an understanding of advertising typography. His book is
    a nice style manual like \"Strunk and White\" but won't make you a typographer
    who uses type well, it will just makes you a typographer who sets type well. \"Strunk
    and White\" won't make you a good writer either, it will just keep the editors
    from getting on your case."
  created: '2010-03-07 04:31:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It might require a philanthropist to step forward and buy a wing for the
    local museum, dedicated to Graphic Design.\r\nAFAIK, there is no Warnock Collection
    at the Seattle Museum.\r\nThe Saatchi Gallery is dedicated to \"real\" art, not
    the cultural artefacts that made the Saatchi millions.\r\nPaul Arden, the genius
    behind the Saatchi's best creative, did set up a gallery, but devoted to photography,
    not advertisements.\r\nYou do get graphic design in art galleries, but it's not
    commercial. So, Barbara Kruger and Richard Hamilton prints, but not his Beatles
    album cover.\r\n\r\nYou are more likely to find design history exhibits in libraries.\r\n<a
    href=\"http://fisher.library.utoronto.ca/resources/projects-completed\">The Thomas
    Fisher Rare Book Library</a> in Toronto often has typographically-centred exhibitions
    of material from commercial culture.\r\n\r\nPosters are most at home in art galleries,
    for instance <a href=\"http://www.mfa.org/exhibitions/sub.asp?key=15&subkey=2147\">Victor
    Moscoso</a> at MFA Boston.\r\n\r\nOne day I will curate an exhibition of 1990s
    rave flyers. That would be a party :-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bonkers_5962.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-07 05:08:06'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-07 15:32:46'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I didn't even know what graphic design was until my..hmmm...sophomore year
    of college! Then I picked it up as my major after finding it more challenging
    than photography.\r\n\r\nI wish I had known such a thing existed a few years earlier.
    But at the Univ. level I had to read Lipton's Thinking with Type. The other we
    had was Carter, Day, Meggs: Typographic Design, Form and Communication."
  created: '2010-03-07 18:52:57'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: "@Terminal Design: \"Being a former industrial arts teacher, I'm sad to see
    that most \"shop\" classes have been purged from general education\" My mother
    is a Home Economics teacher. She is 1 year away from retiring, and they are keeping
    her program only until then. After that, they are turning her cooking labs into
    a science lab and doing away with the program. So sad. \r\n\r\n@Christopher Dean:\r\n1.
    What is the level of this program? (1st year undergrad, 3rd year masters\u2026)\r\nThese
    are freshmen through seniors in a High School program.\r\n\r\n2. What is the average
    age of your students?\r\n15-18\r\n\r\n3. How many are they?\r\n120+\r\n\r\n4.
    What is their general educational background?\r\nFor most of them, this is their
    first exposure to any type of digital design. I use InDesign and Photoshop, but
    have to spend about 6 weeks just 'teaching' the programs. I use teaching loosely
    because I believe in an exploratory pedagogy that allows them to learn by using
    the programs, not by sitting through lectures.\r\n\r\n5. What do you mean by \"publications
    teacher?\r\nBy Publications teacher, I mean my students create the high school
    yearbook and literary magazine, and also create the Varsity football program,
    school calendar, dance fliers, club t-shirts, school spirit items like mugs, posters,
    etc. \r\n\r\nObviously, the use of type is essential to these types of projects!"
  created: '2010-03-09 18:18:17'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: Wow, thank you so much for all your posts. I have a lot to think about! And
    a lot to read!
  created: '2010-03-09 18:19:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Fascinating. I am following this thread, as well as another one \u2014  <a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/67973\">A survey to discover what educational
    backgrounds we all have</a> \u2014 a thread on what to teach typography graduate
    students. I wonder what the overlap and outliers will be?"
  created: '2010-03-09 18:54:58'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: Just a thought.. how do you define typography?
  created: '2010-03-10 01:03:35'
date: '2010-03-04 03:41:51'
node_type: forum
title: My students WILL know what a serif is, darn iit!

---
