---
author:
  name: blank
body: "IMPORTANT UPDATE: Please do not construe this thread as evidence that I am
  a qualified historian writing a book about the history of digital typography. I
  am not a historian, and if I do develop this idea into a book, it won\u2019t happen
  any time soon. If you have a great essay, graduate thesis, etc. about this subject
  that you would like to see released, then publish it, digitally or otherwise. Please
  do not sent it to me expecting it to appear in a book at some point in the near
  future.\r\n*****\r\n\r\nI am considering writing an in-depth history of digital
  type, from the earliest CRT typesetters to contemporary OpenType. Before I start
  I want to be sure that someone else is not already halfway there\u2014is anybody
  out there already writing on this topic? If someone is doing this and trying to
  stay below the radar just drop me an email at james.puckett@gmail.com"
comments:
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: I for one will read what you write.
  created: '2010-03-04 17:28:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: It's a great idea and you'd do a great job at it.
  created: '2010-03-04 19:48:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "James, if you end up tackling this, be sure to pick up a copy of <em>Printer\u2019s
    Type in the Twentieth Century: Manufacturing and Design Methods</em> by Richard
    Southall [New Castle, DE: Oak Knoll, 2005] \u2014 if you don\u2019t already have
    a copy. The later chapters should provide a good resource."
  created: '2010-03-04 23:55:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, as well as Printer''s Type, there are sections in the big Frutiger
    book on "Printing Technology" which are really good: brief but well written, with
    good illustrations and in depth. '
  created: '2010-03-05 01:29:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '<em>Inside the Publishing Revolution: The Adobe Story</em> By Pamela Pfiffner
    is quite informative.'
  created: '2010-03-05 04:29:28'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "This does sound quite fascinating! I'm particularly interested by earlier
    systems that ended up not getting adopted by the mainstream. The influence of
    TeX can't be overstated, but for some of the others, see:\r\n\r\n@techreport{Ruggles83,\r\n
    \ author = \"Lynn Ruggles\",\r\n  title = \"Letterform Design Systems\",\r\n  year
    = 1983,\r\n  number = \"STAN-CS-83-971\",\r\n  institution = \"Stanford University\",\r\n
    \ url = \"ftp://reports.stanford.edu/pub/cstr/reports/cs/tr/83/971/CS-TR-83-971.pdf\"\r\n}\r\n\r\nI'm
    reluctant to commit time, but I might be able to review a draft for technical
    points - happily, I'm now able to use my 20% time at Google for font related projects
    now."
  created: '2010-03-05 04:50:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Inside the Publishing Revolution: The Adobe Story By Pamela Pfiffner is
    quite informative.\r\n\r\nI suppose works of fiction can be informative. ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    would go with chapter 11, \"the font wars\", in <A HREF=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/Accidental-Empires-Silicon-Millions-Competition/dp/toc/0140258264\">Accidental
    Empires</A>. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-05 05:13:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well yes, The Pfiffner work is published by Adobe, so some puffery is to be
    expected.
  created: '2010-03-05 05:23:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is an excellent idea, James. Fiona Ross' <em>The printed Bengali character
    and its evolution</em> has some good material on early digital type for non-Latin
    scripts, to which more attention should be paid than is generally the case. Just
    as the needs of \u2018complex scripts\u2019 drove the development of OpenType,
    one can argue that these scripts provided much of the impetus to intelligent layout
    via digital software in the earlier period."
  created: '2010-03-05 18:12:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>This is an excellent idea, James.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it <em>seems</em>
    like an excellent idea. But then I look at the list of interviewees I need to
    talk to just to scratch the surface and it seems like lunacy. But if I weren\u2019t
    crazy I wouldn\u2019t spend to many times nitpicking at beziers\u2026\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    thanks for the suggestions. Feel free to post or email suggestions about anything
    or anyone who deserves attention. I\u2019m especially interested in important
    stuff that got swept aside like computer-driven phototype, CRT type, and TrueType
    GX."
  created: '2010-03-06 04:49:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Some people to interview:\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow\r\nChuck Bigelow\r\nMatthew
    Carter\r\nGreg Hitchcock\r\nPeter Karow\r\nDonald Knuth\r\nDavid Lemon\r\nDave
    Opstad\r\nMike Parker\r\nFiona Ross\r\nRichard Southall\r\nSumner Stone\r\nGerard
    Unger"
  created: '2010-03-06 17:04:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Go for it, James!
  created: '2010-03-06 17:33:21'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Look for early editions of "Production for the Graphic Designer" by Craig
    as it contains material on early systems.
  created: '2010-03-06 18:57:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Thanks Bob! '
  created: '2010-03-06 22:58:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Some people to interview\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd this is why you were
    already on list of people to interview to find out who else I need to interview.
    Unfortunately that list is already two columns long\u2014I think I\u2019m going
    to have to get a video camera for Typecon and just schedule people for sittings
    or something."
  created: '2010-03-07 05:23:24'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: Also remember Veronika Elsner, who after some discussion introduced herself
    to me as 'the first woman to ever digitize type.'
  created: '2010-03-07 21:10:54'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I'd like to see screenshots of pre-Fontographer font development software.\r\nATF
    Type designer, Ikarus. I think vinyl-sign cutters used something called Flex .
    . . not sure."
  created: '2010-03-08 04:35:41'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Some people to interview</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is gonna getting interesting.
    \r\nWho is defining the Who\u2019s who list ;-) ?\r\n\r\nI find the sex of persons
    who \u2018first digitized type\u2019 a rather weak criterion. However, I recommend
    not to forget M. Everson for an interview."
  created: '2010-03-08 13:45:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Some people you may have not heard of to interview:)\r\n\r\nCherie Cone\r\nDan
    Mills\r\nLarry Oppenberg\r\nElizabeth Bond\r\nJonathan Seybold\r\nSampo Kassila\r\nKathryn
    Weisberg\r\nMike Reed\r\nEliezer & Beat\r\nand Robert Slimbach\r\n\r\nI wrote
    my experiences up to 1989 once, then a client or something happened, I forget.
    \r\n\r\nMy experience in reading Wikipedia entries on this period, as collected
    there, is that the real history has been overwritten by marketing firms, or fans.
    Good luck! \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-08 13:56:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I find the sex of persons who \u2018first digitized type\u2019 a rather
    weak criterion.</cite>\r\n\r\nI promise that I will avoid being one of those annoying
    design writers who treats Licko like a token female. But the story of the German
    housewives digitizing fonts is a very good one."
  created: '2010-03-08 14:26:04'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "On which perspective would you like to approach the subject?\r\nI assume
    it's mostly technical, anyway you should find also Eye magazine n.7, from 1992,
    and the other issue of Eye including the interview with Matthew Carter (n.7 already
    includes an interview with Rudy Vanderlans, besides the article by Robin Kinross
    which is the most interesting part).\r\nAlso, there is a book which deals mostly
    with graphic design, \"Designers on Mac\", which touches the subject in many interviews.
    And Neville Brody also speaks, partly touching technical issues, in the second
    of his two books.\r\n\r\nThese are mostly things less centered around the evolution
    of the type tecnology \"stricly speaking\", but they give a true perspective on
    how digital type was heavily influenced by its use, and cannot be separated from
    the avant-gardes of the early nineties, a perspective which was valued by Carter,
    the most intelligent designer which understood the true scope of the changes taking
    place."
  created: '2010-03-08 14:46:38'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Ah, and you *must* interview Sumner Stone.\r\nAnd in-depth\u2026 trying to
    grasp his deepest thoughts about OpenType. ;)"
  created: '2010-03-08 14:48:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>I find the sex of persons who \u2018first digitized type\u2019 a rather
    weak criterion.</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause you\u2019re male.\r\nHey, it\u2019s International
    Women\u2019s Day after all!"
  created: '2010-03-08 15:08:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>On which perspective would you like to approach the subject?</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably
    from the perspective of design professionals and students interested in understanding
    how all of this stuff connects. For example, I think that one reason many people
    have trouble with H&J settings is because many people don\u2019t even have a clue
    who created digital H&J, what is was supposed to do, and how it\u2019s changed
    in the years since. Or how some of the limits and capabilities of type formats
    have had a lot to do with non-Latin languages. And I expect I will need to work
    from the specialized perspective of designers just to keep the work manageable.
    If I start writing about every word processing app and low-end printer I\u2019ll
    never get done."
  created: '2010-03-08 15:51:09'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>But the story of the German housewives digitizing fonts is a very good
    one.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, while Ms. Elsner does have children, I think that she digitized
    her first typefaces about a decade before she became a mother. And I am not sure
    that someone who has run a business for 20+ years counts as a housewife. But perhaps
    you were talking about someone else\u2026\r\n\r\nDuring the 1980s, I think that
    many of the German drawing office employees were women. For instance, there is
    a 1986 film from Berthold (in German) long circulating on the Internet. Aside
    from GGL, most of the people in the drawing office seem to be young women. Perhaps
    some of these women became housewives later in their lives (although at least
    one of them went on to become a tenured professor of typography at a German university\u2026),
    but if they were working full-time digitizing type they were something else: type
    designers. Or at least font production specialists. But really, several of them
    should count as type designers by anybody's reckoning. Hopefully, they won't be
    overlooked in the History of Digital Type. We would not have so many digital fonts
    to set with without them.\r\n\r\nLook at photos of the Linotype UK drawing office
    staff from the 1980s\u2026 there are many women there. Adobe also had other women
    in the type group besides Carol Twombly. Then there are the various Monotype offices,
    and Compugraphic, too. I'm sure that I am leaving dozens of women off this list\u2026"
  created: '2010-03-08 17:25:34'
- author:
    name: ktinkel
  body: It was several years ago (probably over beers one evening at the Monotype
    conference in Cambridge in the 1990s), but Patricia Saunders and her husband David
    reminisced about her letter-drawing days at the Monotype Printing Works in Salford.
    I got the impression there were quite a few women there, most of them working
    somewhat anonymously. I think she retired a decade (or more) ago, but she worked
    with Robin Nicholas, who is still around.
  created: '2010-03-08 18:07:06'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 German housewives digitizing fonts </cite>\r\n\r\n\u2013 gorgeous
    phrase!! \r\n(has some groovy hitlerizing smack to it, doesn\u2019t it?)\r\n\r\nthink
    of:\r\n\u2013 Wall street brokers digitizing fonts\r\n\u2013 African peasants
    digitizing fonts\r\n\u2013 Japanese Geishas digitizing fonts\r\n\u2013 Italian
    Mamas \u2026\r\n!!!\r\nI will LOVE to read it.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026a rather weak
    criterion./ Because you\u2019re male.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. because it doesn\u2019t
    matter. \r\nI\u2019m the first male who ever produced gilded bookmark butterflies.
    \u2013 Where is the point?\r\n\r\nBy the way, I know V. Elsner and I appreciate
    her.  ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-08 18:17:11'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Ray Larabie,\r\n\r\nFlexi? As a font design package? Could be... \r\n\r\nThere
    is a sign design/manufacturing application today called FlexiSIGN. As I recall,
    Flexi was a product of either ScanVec or Amiable until those two companies amalgamated.
    One of the two companies made an rival signage CAD/CAM software called, Inspire,
    which was discontinued after many of it's features were incorporated into FlexiSIGN.
    \r\n\r\nI think that for early digital sign making equipment, fonts had to be
    produced with paths the plotters could follow. For example, on early Roland plotters
    and Gerber Scientific's IVB could not cut curves. A circle was made up of 100
    or so straight line segments. Fonts on the Gerber IVB were stored on cards which
    plugged into the machine's motherboard. One font per card.\r\n\r\nIn addition,
    Gerber's version of Helvetica was adjusted in some small ways to make it feel
    more familiar to sign painters (any skilled sign painter would have been able
    to paint commonly used fonts like Helvetica from memory)."
  created: '2010-03-08 18:42:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But perhaps you were talking about someone else\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    was referring to some history Veronika told me about at Typecon a few years ago,
    not about Veronika specifically."
  created: '2010-03-08 19:22:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Can't believe no one has mentioned Steve Jobs. Without Steve there would
    probably be no digital type on computers. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-08 19:38:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: or that wonderful Jobs-Warnock confrontation at Siebold years ago ;-)
  created: '2010-03-08 19:49:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '...that''s covered in the Accidental Empires chapter mentioned earlier, as
    well as Pamela Pfiffner''s screenplay. I think Ed Mendelson covered this a bit
    in his TypeCon talk.'
  created: '2010-03-08 20:27:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Susan Kare.
  created: '2010-03-08 20:38:39'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Don't forget to interview John Warnock and Fred Brady. I hope you don't rely
    strictly on TypeCon/ATypI interviews, as so many people involved in those early
    days are no longer involved in type. Carol Twombly, Dan Mills, and Fred have essentially
    "dropped out" of the type world, for example.
  created: '2010-03-08 21:45:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...or that wonderful Jobs-Warnock confrontation at Siebold years ago\"\r\n\r\n@Christopher:
    \ I was not referring to a TypeCon or AtypI interview. I was there at that Seybold
    and saw it myself.\r\n\r\nI do wish Carol Twombly and others would speak to their
    experience on the subject of digital type first-hand, though.\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Roger Black was also at that Seybold where he gave a presentation, partially on
    his frightening (to me)  practice called \"Jamming\" where he and his clients
    would all gather around his computer and collectively design a magazine cover!
    Jamming seems fine for jazz musicians but maddening for a work process ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-08 23:52:25'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: '@russell Flexi, that''s the one. Perhaps it''s not a font design tool, maybe
    just a method of digitizing/exporting. There might be some something worth investigating
    in the early development of vinyl sign cutting.'
  created: '2010-03-09 01:02:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can't believe no one has mentioned Steve Jobs.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat one
    is kind of obvious.\r\n\r\n<cite>I hope you don't rely strictly on TypeCon/ATypI
    interviews\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven how many interviews will be required to get
    the facts straight I expect most of the interviews will be done via email using
    a boilerplate interview with further interviews to corroborate everything.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    do wish Carol Twombly and others would speak to their experience on the subject
    of digital type first-hand, though.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not planning to write
    about the personal experiences of designers so much as to focus on events and
    products of historical significance.\r\n\r\n<cite>There might be some something
    worth investigating in the early development of vinyl sign cutting.</cite>\r\n\r\nDigital
    signage systems are on the list of topics because it was such a huge shift of
    how type could be used and the extent to which a company could apply brand standards.
    And of course it connects to highly legible signage type. Very important stuff."
  created: '2010-03-09 01:18:30'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   Hey, it\u2019s International Women\u2019s Day after all!\r\n\r\nyes it
    is!  let's hear it for the estrogen!  rock on, women!\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-09 03:27:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">or that wonderful Jobs-Warnock confrontation at Siebold years ago ;-)\r\n\r\n>
    I was there at that Seybold and saw it myself\r\n\r\nDez, the pepsi guy was president
    of apple then. The confrontation occurred in an apple conference room, and what
    you saw at Seybold was a shower after the storm. \r\n\r\n> Jamming seems fine
    for jazz musicians but maddening for a work process ;-)\r\noh. i'd tell him to
    stop, 'ept pdf did it for me... do you remember what is was like to PS publish
    before pdf?;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-09 13:02:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes! You had to worry that the PS output fit on a floppy disk--what monster
    files they were, eegads! And the photos were fpo's.
  created: '2010-03-09 13:09:15'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ James< <cite>Digital signage systems are on the list of topics because
    it was such a huge shift of how type could be used and the extent to which a company
    could apply brand standards. And of course it connects to highly legible signage
    type. Very important stuff.</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2026 And, since anyone who could afford
    a computer and a plotter could open up a sign shop, without the bother of learning
    anything about lettering and craft, it was the opening of a whole new world of
    cheap and ugly signs.  :o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-09 13:16:12'
- author:
    name: Jennie Wojtulewicz
    picture: 119291
  body: Tracking
  created: '2010-03-09 18:10:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. digital plotters and vinyl signs.\r\n\r\nMany years ago, c. 1996, a design
    journalist contacted me with a question he was asking numerous type designers
    and typographers: \u2018Is there any typeface for which you can conceive of no
    appropriate use?\u2019 I played along and responded \u2018Revue\u2019.\r\n\r\nThat
    same morning, walking to the office, I passed the \u2018church\u2019 of Scientology,
    and saw their new vinyl-on-board sidewalk sign, encouraging passersby to come
    in for a free personality test. It was set in Revue, alternately stretched and
    compressed to make all the lines the same length: a laughable typographic mess.
    Which just goes to show that there is no typeface for which there is not at least
    one appropriate use."
  created: '2010-03-09 18:28:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...a laughable typographic mess.\"\r\n\r\nNever overestimate the ability
    of an untrained type user, John :-)"
  created: '2010-03-09 18:37:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Off topic, but I wonder what are the most common fonts for shop signs. Souvenir,
    Revue, University Roman, Papyrus, Hobo, and of course Helvetica and Arial have
    to be up high on the list. Makes me wonder... '
  created: '2010-03-09 19:11:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Add Cooper Black to your list, Bill. Heavy fonts with all curves are easier
    on the plotter to cut out of vinyl.
  created: '2010-03-09 20:30:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">a laughable typographic mess\r\n\r\nare you talking about the use of the
    font or is this the analysis of your personality?    \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-09 20:47:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Si, ask Tom Cruise;-)
  created: '2010-03-09 21:36:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nComputer History Museum:\r\n\r\nhttp://ow.ly/1gzM2"
  created: '2010-03-11 22:00:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: How's it coming James, are you almost finished yet?
  created: '2010-03-11 22:44:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Brainerd and Gill! Paul and Tim respectively, respectfully.\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-12 13:14:20'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Chris: <cite>Add Cooper Black to your list, Bill. Heavy fonts with all curves
    are easier on the plotter to cut out of vinyl.</cite>\r\n\r\nan absence of sharp
    corners also makes the job of weeding away excess vinyl easier and faster.\r\n\r\nFF
    Info was designed with that in mind. \r\n\r\nErik Spiekermann said that it saved
    a ton of production time when Meta was working on the D\xFCsseldorf airport signage. "
  created: '2010-03-12 14:07:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>an absence of sharp corners also makes the job of weeding away excess
    vinyl easier and faster.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is almost a pangram, and reads like
    one. :-)"
  created: '2010-03-12 16:25:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>almost a pangram</em>\r\n\r\n\"A-Z with heft made stripping excess vinyl
    a quick job.\""
  created: '2010-03-12 16:35:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Almost?\r\n\r\nQuick! Someone fix the edit feature so I can ad a 'z'.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-13 01:58:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: You mean "Quick! Would somebody fix up the editing feature; I have a 'z' to
    join."
  created: '2010-03-13 03:44:29'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "yup.\r\n:o)"
  created: '2010-03-13 03:59:00'
date: '2010-03-04 16:41:15'
title: Is anybody working on a history of digital type?

---
