---
author:
  name: Igor Freiberger
  picture: 115255
body: "I was analyzing Unicode tables and some pro fonts to understand how it works.
  Even after navigate through the huge Unicode documentation, some doubts remains:\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong>
  Unicode tables does not includes variations for small caps, petite caps, swashes,
  beginnings, endings and alternates. So, all these glyphs will have no Unicode set
  while the font development. Correct?\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong> When the font is
  generated, these glyphs without Unicode are recorded on Private User Area and receive
  a Unicode assigned by the font generator program. Correct?\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong>
  Glyphs without a Unicode definition works correctly but are identified as NULL in
  InDesign glyph palette. Is there a way to replace this NULL name by a descriptive
  one?\r\n\r\n<strong>4.</strong> How could I control the order InDesign adopts in
  the Glyph palette? Illustrator shows exactly the same order I adopted in Index view
  under FontLab, but InDesign ignores it for the first 256 glyphs. \r\n\r\n<strong>5.</strong>
  A glyph that does not exists on Unicode table \u2013 as g with tilde, used in some
  Native American languages \u2013 could be added without problems to the font? I
  remember to read a recommendation not to add language variations in PUA. Which is
  the best practice to these situations?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Adobe does not add PUA Unicode points to characters anymore, that haven\u2019t
    an official Unicode point. It\u2019s your decision to record characters without
    an official Unicode point to the PUA. And have a look in the FontLab name table
    <em>Standard with PUA</em>: \u201CIn addition, a number of semi-standardized Private
    Use Area mappings have been included (in the range 0xE000-0xF8FF).\u201D So, if
    you want to use PUA Unicode points, you should use the ones, that are semi-standardized.\r\n\r\nAnd
    in my opinion you should generate Unicode, before you generate the font (Menu/
    Glyphs/ Glyph names/ generate Unicode). You can deactivate the FontLab option
    to generate Unicode, when the font is build. (You also should deactivate all hinting
    options, that only apply, when the font will be generated, because you loose control
    with these auto functions.)\r\n\r\nWith regard to 5: If you would not be allowed
    to give g.tilde (No official Unicode point?) a PUA point, what else point should
    you give it? Probably not an official Unicode point, that belongs to another character.
    I assume, that you can only choose between a PUA point and no point. It is the
    same as with the typographic variations, isn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nNote, that I am
    amateur."
  created: '2010-03-07 10:26:33'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "for 5, you have to resort to combining marks, it Unicode's policy now not
    to encode new accented characters, instead you have to use base character + combining
    accent, i.e. g+ \u0303 which results in g\u0303 (how this will look depends on
    the level of support in your system/font). Proper positioning is then achieved
    by OpenType mark anchors."
  created: '2010-03-07 11:17:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Khaled Hosny\r\n\r\nThanks! This seems to be explained here, right?: http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#6.d"
  created: '2010-03-07 11:43:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: You could also make it a <code>ccmp</code>. The glyph itself doesn't have
    to have a Unicode, but OTF aware programs (such as InDesign) will always replace
    a 'g' followed by a tilde with your g.tilde glyph.
  created: '2010-03-07 12:39:24'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ Arno Enslin\r\n\r\nYes, sort of. I usually use FontForge to do my OpenType
    work and thus I rarely use Adobe's font feature files, but it is a mutter of what
    tool to use but the concept is the same.\r\n\r\nAnd as Theunis said, one can also
    use ccmp to composite the g+tilde into g.tilde glyph, but I find this inflexible
    as now you need a separate glyph for each possible combination, which can be huge
    number, but it has the benefit of more strait forward kerning, as mark positioning
    and kerning interaction can be tricky."
  created: '2010-03-07 15:55:50'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks for all! I understood the possibility to achieve gtilde (or other
    combinations) through combining diacritics and ccmp feature. And also the way
    to build them using marks, although I believe the ccmp would be easier to handle
    due to kerning issues (as Khaled pointed).\r\n\r\nI'd like to have the proper
    glyph already in the font because this enables direct access. For example: people
    who do studies on Native American languages could use a keyboard layout where
    a simple shortcut (as AltGr + g) could result in the desired glyph. This is quite
    simple to do in Windows as Microsoft has a free tool to create keyboard layouts.
    But this solution is not possible when the desired glyph results from a combination.\r\n\r\nThese
    languages also uses some digraphs with may be treated as ligatures. Once more,
    Unicode has no room for them.\r\n\r\nObjectively, which is the problem to add
    accented glyphs to languages with no Unicode support? Besides the non-standardization
    this causes, is there any functional issue?\r\n\r\nIt's a pity to see no one South
    American native language is considered in Unicode. Even Samaritan, talked by less
    than 1,000 people, has Unicode support, while American native languages with more
    than one million of active speakers haven\u2019t. <em>(Of course, I know this
    evolves cultural questions, as Samaritan has historic relevance.)</em>\r\n\r\nAn
    example:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tupi_4645.PNG]"
  created: '2010-03-07 17:48:43'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I don't know if windows allows you to map a key to a sequence of two unicode
    characters -- if it does, you can map a key to U00670303. If not, you won't be
    able to map a key directly to a g+tilde (or any other accented character not present
    in unicode).\r\n\r\nThe way around this would be to have a key which maps to tildecmb
    (U0303) and a rule in your ccmp feature (which you'd need in any case) along the
    lines of:\r\n\r\n<code> sub g tildecmb by g_tildecmb </code>\r\n\r\n(n.b. I would
    not recommend using g.tilde as the name for your glyph as others have done above
    since applications which depend on glyph names will strip everything after the
    period when determining unicode values -- g_tildecmb will be treated as a ligature).\r\n\r\n<cite>
    It's a pity to see no one South American native language is considered in Unicode.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nThe issue here revolves around the underlying principles of unicode
    -- I think precomposed accented characters were initially included in unicode
    primarily to ensure round-trip compatibility with existing encodings. I suspect
    the unicode consortium had hoped that these characters would eventually fall out
    of use in favour of decomposed characters (e.g. using e (U0065) + acutecmb (U301)
    to represent the character \xE9 rather than the precomposed glyph), but this doesn't
    appear to be happening.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-07 18:26:56'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Even Samaritan, talked by less than 1,000 people, has Unicode support,
    while American native languages with more than one million of active speakers
    haven\u2019t.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut how many writers?"
  created: '2010-03-07 18:34:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I'd like to have the proper glyph already in the font because this enables
    direct access. For example: people who do studies on Native American languages
    could use a keyboard layout where a simple shortcut (as AltGr + g) could result
    in the desired glyph. This is quite simple to do in Windows as Microsoft has a
    free tool to create keyboard layouts. But this solution is not possible when the
    desired glyph results from a combination.</em>\r\n\r\nNote that a key in a keyboard
    layout may be assigned to input more than one character, so to input g + tilde
    you could either have separate keys for the g and the combining tilde or you could
    assign a sequence of two Unicode characters to a single key: 0067+0303.\r\n\r\nRemember,
    the relationship of number of keys to number of characters to number of glyphs
    is <em>n</em>-to-<em>n</em>-to-<em>n.</em> A single key may input multiple characters
    that are displayed as a single glyph. Multiple keys may input multiple characters
    that are displayed as a single glyph. Multiple keys may input a single character
    (a deadkey mechanism) that is displayed as multiple glyphs (ccmp decomposition).
    Etc. \r\n___\r\n\r\nThere is a lot of misunderstanding regarding Unicode encoding
    of diacritic characters and a persistent idea that Unicode somehow ignores or
    does not support many languages because it does not encode their diacritics as
    precomposed characters. Unicode's encoding principles have always favoured decomposed
    encodings; even when text is encoded using precomposed diacritics Unicode normalisation
    provides for decomposition as the cleanest way to handle search, sort and spellcheck
    operations. The only reason why any precomposed diacritic characters exist in
    Unicode is because of a secondary principle that provides for one-to-one roundtrip
    character compatibility with pre-existing standards. This is why most European
    languages have precomposed diacritics included in Unicode: because they existed
    as precomposed characters in earlier standards; note that all of them have canonical
    decompositions in Unicode to base plus combining mark sequences. Having multiple
    ways to encode the same diacritic is not a benefit, it is a software development
    cost and a potential security risk. This is why stability agreements with other
    standards prevent Unicode from adding any more characters with canonical decompositions.\r\n\r\nRather
    than thinking that Unicode somehow \u2018doesn't support\u2019 e.g. native American
    languages, consider that Unicode supports these languages in the way that Unicode
    is fundamentally designed to support all languages involving combining diacritics.
    It is the backwards compatibility encoding of precomposed European diacritics
    that is the anomaly."
  created: '2010-03-07 18:37:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In direct answer to the original questions:\r\n\r\n1. Glyphs that are display
    variants of other glyphs do not need to be encoded. So long as they is a path
    through the OpenType Layout tables from an encoded glyph (i.e. one that is directly
    mapped in the font cmap table) to the variant glyph, the latter can be accessed
    via layout features.\r\n\r\n2. PUA codepoints are best avoided. They should be
    reserved for things like logos and other idiosyncratic pseudo characters. Any
    glyph that represents a standard encoded character, even a variant glyph, should
    only be associated with that character, not with a PUA codepoint.\r\n\r\n3. No.
    In some situations the Unicode glyph pallette tries to associate an unencoded
    glyph variant with an underlying character plus layout feature, but I can't figure
    out how or why this sometimes works and sometimes doesn't.\r\n\r\n4. InDesign
    has the option to sort the glyph pallette by either Unicode or by Glyph ID order.
    I think the latter is preferable, but it is up to the user to set this.\r\n\r\n5.
    As others have suggested, either ccmp composition to a precomposed diacritic glyph
    or GPOS dynamic mark positioning. The former is best if you are targeting specific
    languages and you know exactly what diacritics are involved; the latter is best
    if you are making a font with widespread language support and need a flexible
    solution. As you realised, the mark positioning approach introduces kerning complexities
    that you may wish to avoid."
  created: '2010-03-07 18:45:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Rather than thinking that Unicode somehow \u2018doesn't support\u2019 e.g.
    native \r\n> American languages, consider that Unicode supports these languages
    in \r\n> the way that Unicode is fundamentally designed to support all languages
    \r\n> involving combining diacritics. \r\n\r\nIt's even better than that: fonts
    do not glyphs targeted for those specific languages to support them. A well-designed
    \"linguistic\" font with extensive mark-to-base and mark-to-mark positioning (such
    as Arial or Times New Roman that ship with Windows Vista) support arbitrary mark
    combinations, which makes them support those languages even without \"explicitly
    knowing about them\". \r\n\r\nIn fact, the situation of some languages that use
    less-common precomposed characters is worse because fonts need to be specifically
    developed to support each of these characters, and this rarely happens. "
  created: '2010-03-07 20:53:34'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "And more: beyond the Combining Diacriticals, the Spacing Modifiers need to
    be filled out in fonts. The raised comma character used to signal a glottal stop
    should come from the Spacing Modifiers, not from General Punctuation, even if
    it is the same glyph. And the acute as a spaced character should come from spacing
    modifiers, not from the legacy acute.\r\n\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThank God for EULA's
    that allow the end user to modify the font as needed."
  created: '2010-03-07 23:03:17'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>@ John Hudson, Agisaak, Twardoch</strong> and <strong>Charles:</strong>
    Thank you very much! This thread is a concise and excellent lesson on Unicode
    and OT building.\r\n\r\nI see that most good fonts released recently does not
    includes combining diacritics or space modifiers. Vesper Pro is one of the few
    with this support, largely present just on fonts bundled with Windows.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    my font project now includes these combining diacritics and modifiers."
  created: '2010-03-08 23:10:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Freiberger, \r\n\r\nI believe that one reason behind the lack of mark attachment
    support in the majority of shipping fonts is that the tools are not quite up to
    it. Microsoft VOLT is the pretty much only tool that has been used for that by
    professional foundries, and it is somewhat cumbersome to use, and only works on
    Windows. Also, InDesign only supports mark attachment since version CS3, which
    is still relatively recent. \r\n\r\nI would speculate that if FontLab Studio gets
    mark attachment support, the number of such fonts will increase significantly.
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-03-09 15:36:16'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>I would speculate that if FontLab Studio gets mark attachment support,
    the number of such fonts will increase significantly.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease tell
    me we won't have to wait much longer. :)"
  created: '2010-03-09 15:42:12'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I second Jongseong ask!  :-)\r\n\r\n<strong>Off-topic</strong>: Another improvement
    I want to see in FL 6 is about hinting.\r\n\r\nBy now, I do tests with PS autohinting,
    manual PS hinting and no hints at all. Curiously, some glyphs works much better
    without any hinting (especially the complex ones, like /g/\xDF/W/).\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't know if this is because I'm using alignment zones and default stems in
    a consistent way, or because almost all nodes/BCPs are aligned to a 4x4 grid,
    or it's simply a FL limitation when doing hints \u2013and later I may discover
    that to have some glyphs without hints is not a good idea."
  created: '2010-03-09 17:58:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Remember that unencoded glyphs achieve their encoding through substitutions
    in the feature code and classes. A smallcap N for example is substituted for either
    a cap or lowercase n depending on which feature comes into play. A variant does
    not require its own codepoint and when read back into a PDF, comes back as the
    referent's unicode point. In the case of our N smallcap, this could either be
    a cap N or lowercase n. A PUA codepoint would just confuse the issue. An N by
    any other name is still an N.
  created: '2010-03-09 18:33:14'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Brian: <em>Please tell me we won't have to wait much longer.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    can\u2019t speak for Adam, but in any case DTL and URW++ will present a new tool,
    which amongst other things will support mark attachment via a GUI, at the coming
    ATypI Conference in Dublin (and that is <strong>all</strong> I will reveal here).\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-09 19:20:50'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Freiberger\r\n\r\nUse the AFDKO autohint macro instead of the autohint
    function, that belongs to FontLab. And the quality of the hinting is dependent
    from <strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/59506\">the standard stem values</a></strong>.\r\n\r\n@
    Frank E. Blokland\r\n\r\nBut the new tool is obviously not OTMaster. But for sure
    you can get it for free. Cool!"
  created: '2010-03-09 19:36:09'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: And FontForge has been supporting an excellent GUI for mark attachments since
    eternity, oh well, "professionals" don't use free crap.
  created: '2010-03-09 21:03:09'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '[tracking]'
  created: '2010-03-10 11:57:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 most good fonts released recently does not includes combining
    diacritics or space modifiers</cite>\r\n\r\nText fonts to be labled \u201Cgood\u201D
    should include them.\r\n\r\nThe problem is rather, that there are no advanced
    encoding tables publicly available to schedule what scope of characters or glyphs
    a font shall contain if it is meant to serve a particular field of text composing.
    Who really knows what is actually required for a comprehensive coverage of south
    American native languages?! Who really knows what is actually required for a comprehensive
    coverage of medieval Latin? These things are more like best-kept-secrets \u2026\r\n\r\nFor
    my own part, I go with selfmade custom encoding schemes for nearly all of my font
    work, since neither UCS tables nor default encodings do tell you what is *actually*
    neccessary to cover. To make one step forward: could you supply us with a concise
    listing of characters needed in your field? Maybe, I would eventually volunteer
    to provide an encoding to fit.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-10 16:14:05'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> And FontForge has been supporting an excellent GUI for mark \r\n> attachments
    since eternity, oh well, \"professionals\" don't use free crap.\r\n\r\nI did not
    mention FontForge for a simple reason: I've tried installing it repeatedly, over
    time, on three different computers -- and never got it working properly. So I
    never learned much about it, even though I tried. \r\n\r\nCurrently, FontForge
    that is installed on my Mac OS X 10.5.8 crashes immediately after launching it.
    I've reinstalled, uninstalled, installed the released version as well as a fresh
    CVS copy, tried compiling it in various modes on several different systems. Something
    always fails. \r\n\r\nOf course I contacted the developer numerous times, but
    he was never able to help me. And I'm talking about _installation_. At some point
    (about a year ago), I did have a working version of FontForge running, but only
    until I installed some updates to my system. \r\n\r\nWhich is a pity. I personally
    would love to use FontForge for some specific technical tasks that it supposedly
    supports, while FontLab Studio doesn't (like generating AAT tables). But after
    hours and hours spent trying to install it, I've given up. \r\n\r\nWhile FontLab
    Studio is far from being perfectly stable, it usually does the job somehow. From
    my personal experience -- and I'm not saying it gladly -- FontForge is a tool
    that can be called \"experimental\", at most. I'm certain some users will be successful
    in using it, but they need bring some \"readiness to be challenged\" in their
    spirits. :) Which I think is a bit of a pity. I think there is a good spot for
    a free font editor that works well, simply because some people just cannot afford
    commercial software. \r\n\r\nKhaled, \r\n\r\nI personally use lots of free and
    opensource software packages, and I have contributed my own development to some.
    So when it comes to your sentence, \"professionals don't use free crap\", I can
    agree with it only if you remove the word \"free\" from it. \r\n\r\nFrank, \r\n\r\nI'm
    very excited about your announcement, and certainly look forward to seeing your
    new application. It's always very good to hear that someone's working on new font
    development software, and, as you know, I have great respect for both DTL and
    URW++ in that domain. DTL OTMaster rocks, and I've enjoyed using some of your
    other tools as well. \r\n\r\nA small list of font editing software is available
    on my page: http://www.font.org/software/\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-11 21:17:56'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "(Adam: laptop za 200$ i 5 minut pracy...) \r\nInstalling FF in 3 easy steps:\r\n1.
    go to http://www.geocities.jp/meir000/fontforge/ , download fontforge-mingw_2009_10_28.zip
    (ca 18 MB)\r\n2. unzip it somewere\r\n3. double click fontforge.bat\r\nFontforge
    has access only to the disk where \"somewere\" is. It could be even on memory
    card, no install process is necessary!\r\nEdit: tested win2000, winXP\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-11 21:42:51'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Janek, I've used FontForge through MinGW and can't but agree with Adam. I
    <em>got</em> it to work, but boy! every two or three minutes it crashed, sometimes
    requiring not just a restart from MinGW (which on occasion worked) but an entirely
    fresh restart of Windows. \"Unstable\", to say the least.\r\n\r\nIt may be FontForge
    itself, it may be MinGW, and it also may be my ill-fated Windows PC. I'm too wary
    to try it on my Mac, since trying to run it on Snow Leopard has been called \"a
    brave enterprise\" a few times :-P"
  created: '2010-03-11 22:40:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I work on Mac OS X, and I *did* get it to work: on a completely clean system,
    about 1.5 years ago. The moment I installed a dozen applications and some libraries,
    it stopped working, and never resumed. This happens on three computers, one with
    Mac OS X 10.4, one with 10.5, and one with 10.6. \r\n\r\nWhich is a pity, because,
    as I said, I would have some use for it. "
  created: '2010-03-14 16:00:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Firstly, let me thank all the info posted here. Very useful.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the hinting issue, a special thank to Arno. Now I'm using AFDKO autohint with
    excellent results.\r\n\r\nBack to original questions: I saw some fonts includes
    a few characters with no Unicode correspondence. For example: Greta Text has Ering
    and Newzald has Eacutedotbelow and Egravebotbelow. In Nezwald these glyphs even
    got given codepoints (in E1xx range).\r\n\r\nI understand this is not recommended,
    but as Greta and Newzald are widely acclaimed fonts, I'd know if these specific
    glyphs have some reason to be included even without a Unicode. And if the procedure
    of Newzald (to attribute a Unicode from the PUA range) is acceptable in any sense."
  created: '2010-03-30 01:32:44'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<strong>Giving a Unicode codepoint to each glyph</strong>\r\n\r\nPro: you
    can insert these characters in any program. Not every program can handle (all)
    feature sets or non-Unicode characters.\r\nCon: Your font *will* be incompatible
    with other fonts that have other glyphs on those same positions. Changing from
    your font to another will change the glyphs but not their UC.\r\n\r\n<strong>Inserting
    \"odd\" glyphs without a Unicode</strong>\r\nPro: they don't interfere with the
    general idea of Unicode.\r\nCon: Non-feature enabled apps will not have access
    to these characters.\r\n\r\nIt has been discussed before (with strong arguments
    both pro and con both methods), and I think the general idea was to put \"real\"
    glyphs which just don't happen to have a UC codepoint assigned (yet) in the PUA
    -- there are even a few \"informal\" ranges in the PUA with characters that ought
    to have a UC assigned -- and reserve the non-UC code points for glyphs that exclusively
    get used by features, such as ligatures and \"ccmp\" composited characters that
    don't have a UC code point. In the latter case, changing from your font to another
    would not be able to use your specific ligature combo's *anyway*.\r\n\r\nI can't
    find the relevant discussion right away; perhaps someone else remember what it
    was called."
  created: '2010-04-02 22:43:54'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Theunis. You put it in a very clear way.\r\n\r\nBy now, I'm including
    some glyphs which aren't in Unicode tables. My criteria is to include only those
    characters with diacritics also built into good fonts, as Minion Pro, Newzald
    or Greta Text. Actually, these are just a few.\r\n\r\nAlthough I found various
    fonts with given codepoints to glyphs outside the Unicode table (PUA range, E1XX
    and above), I chose not to give codepoints to them. Firstly, because the incompatibility
    you pointed. Secondly, because this is a large work without a very tangible advantage.\r\n\r\nAs
    I included many OT features, the font is huge (2300+ glyphs) even without Greek
    and Cyrillic support. Probably, I'll become crazy while making the italics."
  created: '2010-04-03 00:01:53'
date: '2010-03-07 09:07:12'
node_type: forum
title: Unicode Questions

---
