---
author:
  name: litera
  picture: 112575
body: "Haven't been here awhile.\r\n\r\nThis is the very beginning of a new logo.
  It has started on a piece of paper and this is the first digitized draft (and just
  a draft). I'm deliberately not providing any additional info on the logo, because
  I would like to hear from your:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>critique of this draft</li>\r\n<li>associations/emotions
  you get by looking at it</li>\r\n<li>what came to your mind when you first saw it</li>\r\n<li>what
  industry you think could be suitable for</li>\r\n<li>what other ideas may popped
  up your mind</li>\r\n<li>any suggestions you may have</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThank
  you very much.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado II_6541.jpg]\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: I'll provide additional info after I get few more opinions to make them a
    bit more measurable. Thanks for your input Paul. Always appreciated.
  created: '2010-03-09 00:32:55'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "<ul>\r\n<li>type seems pretty static\r\n<li>kinda restricted fun\r\n<li>Chemicals\r\n<li>Chemistry/Lab\r\n<li>bubbles\r\n<li>can't
    really make suggestions without knowing what it's for eh ;)\r\n</ul>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;\r\nPaul\r\n----------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-03-09 00:33:18'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-09 03:39:49'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@Jennifer: Does that mean <em>nothing pops to my mind</em>?'
  created: '2010-03-09 06:06:43'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The bubbles appear too crowded at the bottom (and maybe too near the wordmark),
    or, at least, the rhythm seems broken.\r\nToo many colours for a draft.\r\nIt
    will be difficult to place other elements around the logo."
  created: '2010-03-09 09:27:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Bubbles, water, aquatic sea creatures? Pharmaceuticals? The Pleiades are
    a group of stars, so maybe aerospace?\r\n\r\nThe colours make me think it could
    be something for children? Also Pleiado sounds like Play-Doh.\r\n\r\nI think I'd
    make the blue and pink bubbles smaller.\r\n\r\n>kinda restricted fun \r\n\r\nI
    agree. The bubbles look quite deliberately placed."
  created: '2010-03-09 10:33:34'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Looks like I'm a bit off. But the thing is when I look at logos from various
    companies they don't always tell you directly what the company/business is about.
    So first of all:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>this logo is for a company that's primarily
    in agile software development business but a part of it also in graphic design;
    that's why all the colors.</li>\r\n<li>Pleiado is derived out of Pleiades, seven
    stars, that are also related to <em>similar minded group of people</em>, which
    relates to team software development.</li>\r\n<li>circles represented as bubbles
    are just part of this draft; they may be replaced with anything; stars as well...</li>\r\n<li>bubbles
    start on top of the \"i\" to replace the dot on it.</li>\r\n<li>bubbles overlap
    to give a sense of dimension</li>\r\n<li>lifting shapes (in draft's case bubbles)
    give a sense of lightness that I can easily relate to Agile principles</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n@Bendy:
    I agree I could place bubbles (shapes) more sporadically to not pose an exact
    shape and make them more playful\r\n\r\n@ricardo: I thought to deliberately overlap
    shapes in the final version (possibly with a hint of transparency) to relate logo
    to visual aspect of company's business (graphic desing).\r\n\r\n<strong>@everyone</strong>
    I definitely didn't intend to relate this logo to pharmaceutical industry. The
    thing is <strong>I don't know how to relate agile software development</strong>
    with visual elements. I don't have a workable idea. Except growing/composing shapes/sizes/weights...
    but that's just growth. No agile-ness in it.\r\n\r\nI still want to make this
    logo professional but not bound to square/round shape.\r\n\r\nI thought I could
    place lifting smoke over type... It would make my logo design a bigger challenge
    (think of Silverlight logo), especially because I MUST make it work in BW as well.\r\n\r\n<strong>Now
    that you know much more, would you change your opinion or suggest new things or
    give some additional observations and directions?</strong> Please do.\r\n\r\nThank
    you very much and I hope you will all (at least the ones that did so far) reply
    again."
  created: '2010-03-09 10:59:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I don't have a clue what agile software entails, but I think the concept
    could work. This kind of logo works really well as it defines a palette that can
    be used on all different communications.\r\n\r\nAgile seems to include the idea
    of quick movement so give the bubbles/stars a bit more freedom. I'd lose the gradient
    fills and be really selective about the colours used. If you could invent a shape
    instead of bubbles or stars, that could be used on its own as a mark for other
    things. And don't you need seven bubbles to fit the reference properly?"
  created: '2010-03-09 11:38:11'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "@Bendy: Yes seven. In the way that these circles/bubbles are positioned now,
    seven would be too many, that's why I excluded one. But by placing them in a more
    random fashion I'll be able to put all seven of them.\r\n\r\nSeven was one of
    the main ideas to use in this logo. But my doodles with it were not useful."
  created: '2010-03-09 12:58:18'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: "@Robert\r\nSorry, Didn't have time to respond but wanted to follow the this
    thread.\r\nNice color, I too thought pharma company but get it could be software
    too. Why not 7 bubbles for the seven stars?"
  created: '2010-03-09 17:20:09'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>The thing is I don't know how to relate agile software development with
    visual elements.</em>\r\n\r\nI can tell you as a professional computer programmer
    - \"agile software development\" is a marketing speak of a fad variety. Meaning
    that the logo needs to work for the marketing people in the first place. It needs
    to be \"cool and hip\", but other than that it can be anything."
  created: '2010-03-09 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Keep the logo agile then...redrawing (potential) connecting lines between
    the stars depending on the usage.\r\n\r\nthe m6.4 is the magnitude of a particular
    star.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pleiado_4811.jpg]\r\n\r\nBit
    of a start anyway.\r\n\r\nSoftware...ology.\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n----------\r\nPaul\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-03-09 22:00:55'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "@ratbaggy: I didn't really get that part with <em>connecting lines depending
    on the usage</em> as well as <em>using magnitudes</em>... Otherwise your idea
    is visually more in direction that I'd like to take. Breaking the box of rigid
    logo that's encapsulated inside a visual square-ish box. Your constellation breaks
    it. You can't visually put it in a box.\r\n\r\nDon't you think that using direct
    constellation positions would imply on astronomy related business? I could of
    course position these \"stars\" in any way I would like."
  created: '2010-03-09 22:16:50'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "yeah the 'agile' nature relates to flexibility, so it seems like a perfect
    oppotunity to create something that is dynamic in its delivery, i.e, the overall
    concept and mark don't change, but the lines can connect any number of stars or
    point to one star, it's flexible without changing.\r\n\r\nAs random dots, they
    don't even have to be stars. Adding the m6.4 bit just brought some more scientific
    bent to the overll feel. Original thought after you mentioned stars was the softwareology,
    which could either be cheesy or effective. Ology = A combining form meaning \"the
    science or study of\".\r\n\r\nI literally threw it together in a minute, more
    as a \"could be something more in this\" rather than \"here's a fleshed out concept\".\r\n\r\n----------\r\nPaul\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.allthingsconsidered.com.au\">Design Studio Melbourne</a>"
  created: '2010-03-09 22:43:20'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I like Ratbaggy's logo. It looks brainy, scientific and programmery. It's
    memorable and just needs some decent colors.
  created: '2010-03-10 01:53:00'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "it'd also translate to a website pretty well.\r\n\r\nand other printed collateral
    ... thinked screen printed plastic with holes punched.\r\n\r\ninvoice is in the
    mail ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-10 03:16:10'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: Or... To relate the logo with graphic design as well I could use exact locations
    of pleaides constellation but use simple ink splatters. That could be really great.
    I'll make a draft of that. Seems like a good combination of both worlds.
  created: '2010-03-10 07:59:04'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: A pleasing dainty design suggesting cleanliness, hygiene, healthy living.  As
    a logo the bubbles will appear too small on a monitor screen if it is greatly
    reduced...perhaps less white margin will solve this. Do you know 7-up?   I counted
    the bubbles and there were six..reminded me of a silly old joke about 7-up.  An
    entrepreneur markets a drink called 4-up but it fails, then one called 5-up ,
    it fails, 6-up also fails so he gives up... and the punchline is "He never knew
    how near he got!". I hope your logo succeeds.
  created: '2010-03-10 08:55:43'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@Vladimir: I don''t know which 7up logo image you looked at, because there
    are quite a few of them. Some of them have lots of bubbles, but the one you''re
    talking about is probably the one that has 7up written on a huge bubble and 6
    small around them. So there are actually 7 of them. ;)'
  created: '2010-03-10 11:29:58'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Does NOT want to see ink splatters!\r\n\r\nheh.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-10 21:13:06'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: Didn't see if someone mentioned this but as far as the name...there's a potential
    for mispronunciation and confusion.
  created: '2010-03-10 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@evanbrog: Can you provide some more info about your statement? The thing
    is that this company is not in an English speaking territory. But just the same.
    It''s still going to be miswritten if not mispronounced. But I''m interested in
    what way do you think is problematic?'
  created: '2010-03-10 22:08:54'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Well perhaps in the native country things should just be fine.\r\n\r\nBut
    for me, the question is in the middle vowels. Obviously there's at least 2 ways
    to stress each vowel and there's three vowels in a row, which makes for a lot
    of possible combinations of how to pronounce the name.\r\n\r\nNow I don't expect
    you to be changing the name, but I also don't know how set in stone it is. My
    particular concern was that your audience can't say the name correctly. Personally,
    I would always want them to \"get it\" right away, just the same as I don't like
    people mispronouncing my own name.\r\n\r\nBut for the business, is it detrimental?
    Will people be likely to remember the name if they aren't sure of which way to
    pronounce it in the first place? Same goes for a recommendation of your business--will
    the person who is told, \"Play-ee-ah-do,\" (or whatever) \"does great work, you
    should go with them.\" Will they remember?\r\n\r\nPerhaps it's wont affect leads--that
    would be based on your business model and how and where you approach your marketing.\r\n\r\nSo
    litera I'm curious what you think, and if it's not a problem why--it's always
    fun for me to think through things and learn something in the process."
  created: '2010-03-11 18:17:12'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@evanbrog: This company has been up and running since last summer. It''s
    not a standard-as-you-know-em company, but rather works with individual clients
    on a case-by-case one-by-one basis. Company name isn''t really a brand and it
    probably never will be. So the name isn''t a problem in this regard, if you ask
    me. I do agree that this name is very well chosen, but I could be wrong. If there''s
    going to be an end product of some sort from this company, it''s going to bear
    its own brand.'
  created: '2010-03-11 19:54:10'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I've avoided using splatters but positioned <strong>seven</strong> shapes
    allaround the name. So here's #2:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    IV_4354.jpg]\r\n\r\n-\r\nAnd maybe. Just maybe. This is very development oriented
    version because it represents a self closing XML tag. I'm not so sure if it could
    be used as a logo, because it may be too generic and straightforward. So here's
    #3:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado III_6549.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-11 22:34:33'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I see 8 O's.    =)\r\n\r\nThe 6 shapes, the tittle, and the O in pleiado. "
  created: '2010-03-11 22:40:18'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@evanbrog: These curcles aren''t derived from the letter "o". If I''d make
    them more round, they probably wouldn''t complement type very well. And in this
    version the logo is pure BW. In colour version those circles would probably be
    more colourful and non-hollow.'
  created: '2010-03-11 23:09:59'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: 'Re: #3 - I have most certainly seen this exact concept used by some web development
    studio for their logo.'
  created: '2010-03-11 23:13:46'
- author:
    name: TKDesign
    picture: 119423
  body: 'I think you are closest with #2. How about taking one of the circles and
    making it big enough to go behind the "ple" (half way behind the e)?'
  created: '2010-03-12 03:25:01'
- author:
    name: careyj
  body: 'I like the revised b/w version with the bubbly stars. Did you already try
    playing with the "o" to add it to the constellation? Maybe too much, but just
    a thought. '
  created: '2010-03-13 00:38:45'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Hi - the 7up I remember is from my university days way back in the last century
    it had a red label on a green bottle with seven bubbles.  Anyway if you image
    google Pleiades you will see  photos of the constellation perhaps that will give
    you some ideas.  By the way the Pleiades are really beautiful stars and visible
    with the naked eye on a good clear night. With a telescope they look like this
    \r\nhttp://pessimisticidealist.files.wordpress.com/2009/04/pleiades_gendler_big.jpg
    \ \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-14 14:18:31'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>With a telescope they look like this</cite>\r\n\r\nThey seem to form
    a nice arrow shape.\r\nCould be a good visual clue for [agile] development."
  created: '2010-03-14 14:44:42'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "@ricard0: If you stretch your imagination you can see Pleiades as an arrow...
    Look up in the sky. They don't really look as an arrow at all. If it was Andromeda...
    Then I wouldn't argue. On Vladimir's link the do look like an arrow but they don't
    look like that to naked eye, because light is excessively emphasized on the image.
    Rather look at Ratbaggy's version of the logo that shows the constellation in
    more natural look and feel. I don't really see an arrow there.\r\n\r\nBut I would
    probably rather avoid using exact constellation positions, to separate the logo
    from astronomy, because the company has nothing to do with it. I tend to use number
    7 and keep the logo open and unboxed... In some way or another. Stretching the
    limits. Anyway.\r\n\r\nI will have to somehow replace those circles-wanna-be's
    with something else for them to not look as bubbles."
  created: '2010-03-15 10:18:55'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: '@litera  I agree that in the sky the stars look like a brilliant bracelet
    not at all like an arrow.  By the way why do you need to combine the logo with
    the name why not a separate graphic logo? The Pleiades photo shows cross-like
    diffraction pattern artifacts over each star, maybe extending those in an abstract
    way you get a sort of techno-graph look suitable for software.'
  created: '2010-03-15 13:21:21'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Putting a symbol separate from type would do something I would like to avoid.
    It would separate the whole logo in two parts. Probably making the whole logo
    visually contained inside a square-ish box. Keeping them separate leaves the whole
    logo more free an un-boxed. Basically agile development is about adaptability
    of the process and product functionality. So it's rather free but still connected
    to the whole end product.\r\n\r\nThe other idea I'm also willing to get across
    is the design aspect of the business. Design as an art is also rather free and
    unlimited.\r\n\r\nThese two are the main reasons why I'd like to have a bit different
    logo.\r\n\r\n<strong>EVERYBODY:</strong>\r\nDoes anyone know of any logo with
    a symbol and type that are not put inside a certain box? SO symbol is all around
    type and vice-a-versa...? I would be more than glad to check those out and how
    they work as a logo."
  created: '2010-03-15 19:20:57'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '@apankrat: was it the CodeFish (http://logofaves.com/2009/08/code-fish/)
    logo that reminded you of my #3?'
  created: '2010-03-16 06:43:54'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: No, it was something in the form of an HTML/XML tag - opening bracket, name,
    slash, closing bracket, i.e. exactly like yours except for the name. It was at
    least a year ago and I saw it in one of the web design galleries rather than on
    a logo-related site.
  created: '2010-03-16 07:14:40'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: If they are separate then you have the choice either of showing the design
    alone, like the Apple logo, or together with the lettering next to it.  That was
    the reason I mentioned the possibility.
  created: '2010-03-17 14:38:37'
- author:
    name: cfig
    picture: 114258
  body: apankrat, I remember seeing that too, it was very very similar.
  created: '2010-03-17 15:08:50'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: If they are separate then you have the choice either of showing the design
    alone, like the Apple logo, or together with the lettering next to it.  That was
    the reason I mentioned the possibility.
  created: '2010-03-17 21:27:21'
- author:
    name: ishbog
  body: "Definitely like the < /> end tag. DEFINITELY gives a LOT more meaning to
    the logo, and I think it would communicate decently with the audience (people
    needing programming). \r\n\r\nYou should consider involving vertical or horizontal
    lines to produce a more cutting edge or straightforward feel. I whipped up a little
    thing relating more to the stars just as a sketch:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pleiado_5620.png]"
  created: '2010-03-19 03:06:02'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "This is something completely off past versions and styles, but it is something.
    It combines 7, geometrics and artistics...\r\n\r\nJust doodling but I thought
    I might show it to you...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado VI_6236.jpg]\r\n\r\nSeven
    elements with seven corners. And you've probably guessed where hand is taken from..."
  created: '2010-03-24 22:57:31'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: '... or not... Anyway. This hand is stylised from Rembrand''s <em>The night
    watch<em>.'
  created: '2010-03-25 12:43:24'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "I'm not too sure.\r\n\r\nThere could totally be something in this direction.
    My initial reaction was \"it feels like a game of chance\".\r\n\r\nSo...to that
    end, if the concept were to work (in my opinion) there would need to be a feeling
    of 'control' or 'organisation'...without feeling like a magician (I don't think
    juggler is the right way to go, too fun?).\r\n\r\nMore geometric shapes/arrangement
    would help with this 'organisation'."
  created: '2010-03-25 21:51:34'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: Thanks Ratbaggy. Exactly the kind of comment I needed. I felt the same but
    couldn0t define the vague feeling inside of me. Cheers.
  created: '2010-03-25 21:59:13'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Pedantic geek issue:\r\n\r\n&lt;pleadido /&gt;\r\n\r\nin XML, when set as
    a self-closing tag = pleadido is empty and contains no value. \r\n\r\nNot sure
    if that's a good connotation.\r\n\r\nBut perhaps you could play with it:\r\n\r\n&lt;pleadido&gt;awesome
    talent&lt;/pleadido&gt;\r\n\r\nMore as a tagline.\r\n\r\nThat said, the 'bracketed
    code to imply this is a dev firm' has been used quite a bit in the past and may
    be overly cliche. "
  created: '2010-03-25 22:01:16'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Well I could as well convert it to server script bound to Asp.net. Which
    is exactly the platform that company provides development on.\r\n\r\n<%= pleiado
    %>\r\n\r\nbut this makes it a bit more complicated as a logo..."
  created: '2010-03-26 12:13:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: ^ nah. It makes the logo look as if it was designed by a programmer :)
  created: '2010-03-26 16:02:57'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I'm still puzzled with this logo. I just can't seem to decide what should
    I use. On one hand I like the logo that is boundless, but the problem it has is
    that it doesn't have a symbol. It always has to be together with type.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand I like a single symbol, that doesn't require type, but I can't
    seem to find something useful that would be mainly related to development. And
    I don't want to use any cliches (like monitor, key from a keyboard, globe with
    a swoosh etc. that are mainly used with IP development companies).\r\n\r\nI don't
    know what would be clever.\r\n\r\nI'm still leaning toward logo with circles (wannabe)
    around type, but I don't know if using circles is ok. They seem too basic. Sharp
    stars are not style compatible... I also have a great idea about business cards.
    type would be printed but circles around it would be punched out. Which would
    make for an unusual and interesting effect.\r\n\r\nThe only thing I'm sure of
    is type. I'd very much like the versatile style of <b>PF Square Sans Pro</b>...\r\n\r\nAnyway.
    Here's one more new path I took...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    VIII_3700.jpg]\r\n\r\nI know you may say that it reminds you of Mont Blanck...
    But I use seven stars on a squarish circle... Thinking of it... Just because of
    this fact it was probably a total waste of time..."
  created: '2010-03-28 22:14:43'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Maybe this logo has gone backwards.\r\n\r\nI liked the 11th of March direction
    with the <strong>seven</strong> shapes."
  created: '2010-03-29 01:49:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I like the last iteration. But the symbol need to be placed as far away from
    the o as possible.
  created: '2010-03-29 09:07:22'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "\r\n\r\nPLAY-DOO"
  created: '2010-03-29 10:08:13'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I started working from scratch. Paper, pencil... I'm preety sure that those
    dots don't work as expected anymore. I'm not really sure. I kinda don't like them,
    because they ALWAYS need wordmark as well.\r\n\r\n(Those 111 mean 7 in binary)\r\n(Those
    squares wanna-be's are negative 111)\r\n(Others mainly doodles...)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    Logo Iteration 3_5750.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-06 23:16:25'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Definitely not the pd ones (1st column 3rd and 4th down).\r\n\r\nThe dotted
    ones are not working for me either. I think dots need to form a meaningful shape
    for them to be usable without a wordmark. Perhaps try building a P out of them?\r\n\r\nI
    really like 4th down in 4th column. If it was meant to be a take on @, then it's
    spot on. Very Internet-ish.\r\n\r\nAnother observation, may or may not be helpful
    - there are seven letters in the name.\r\n\r\nThe idea with binary notation is
    probably going to be lost on a vast majority of viewers, programmers included.
    I would've not deciphered it, and I am a Comp Sci major. There is however something
    in the idea. Perhaps use 7 somethings in a row and shade 3 last of them differently?
    Though in this case 8 somethings would make more sense...\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-07 00:18:25'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I kinda like the \"p\" as @. It was meant to be similar to @ yes. And the
    other ones with similar shape represent a 7 with rounded shape around it (we write
    strike through 7 here in our country) so it's a 7 with circle around it that makes
    a shape of P.\r\n\r\nAnyway. These @-like signs have to be tweaked to complement
    the style and shape of letters. thanks for your comment @apankrat."
  created: '2010-04-07 21:54:31'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Ok. These are digitised versions of what I've been drawing on paper. The
    three ones I liked the most and found most interesting. Anyway. Here they are
    in type matching style:\r\n\r\n_________________________\r\nP as @:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    XII_4622.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado XII a_4879.jpg]\r\n_________________________\r\nOnes:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    X_4601.jpg]\r\n_________________________\r\n7 + P:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    XI_5379.jpg]\r\n_________________________\r\nA new digital P (unsketched):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    IX_4351.jpg]\r\n\r\n_________________________\r\nI must as well say that I'm sorry
    for posting so many indecisive versions of the logo. The main problem that I'm
    having is originality. The one with scattered dots/circles is not really useful
    as a logo I guess (because it doesn't really have a symbol even though there's
    graphic used in it). And I haven't found a good logo with similar approach that
    is clever and I could say: \"ok this is the way to go.\""
  created: '2010-04-11 23:06:09'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I couldn't really decide whether I should show this one or not, but here
    it is now. I've obviously made the decision. ;)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    XIII_5943.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-11 23:56:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: P as @.
  created: '2010-04-12 00:26:32'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: P as @.
  created: '2010-04-12 14:40:09'
- author:
    name: paluro
  body: "hi, sorry for my english but i follow your work since sky lark (beautifull
    logo!!)  and this time your logo is missing some story, some emotion side. I dont
    know why you show us the first logo. I think you did it because is the best one.
    Try to rework details with the first one. Maybe if this is a farmaceutical logo,
    the 3\xB0 logo is a very good option.\r\nI hope you undersatnd my poor english.\r\nbonne
    chance"
  created: '2010-04-12 23:17:35'
- author:
    name: paluro
  body: "Sorry I want say  the  #2 logo and not 3\xB0"
  created: '2010-04-12 23:21:55'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: I must say (having spent most of my creative career as a pen-and-paper designer,)
    that I find this modern way of sharing and working online interesting and yet
    strange.  OK do not mind me, but so far I like the digital P (unsketched) the
    best - it is slightly derivative from the XP logo concept of dots, but it is original
    enough, and has a dynamic energy, shows the stars in a stylized fashion, and is
    related to computers because of the digital aspect of full and empty pixels.
  created: '2010-04-13 05:14:54'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "<strong>@paluro:</strong> I don't really know which one is #2 or 3\xB0? I
    know which ones are \"P as @\", \"Ones\" etc... as I've labelled them... If non
    of them are, please refer to my designs with post time-stamp displayed.\r\n\r\n<strong>@Vladimir:</strong>
    I don't know to which XP logo are you referring. Can you provide a link to it?"
  created: '2010-04-13 21:11:46'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: I'm guessing Vladimir meant <a href=http://wordspacing.files.wordpress.com/2008/01/xerox_logo.jpg>old
    Xerox logo</a>.
  created: '2010-04-13 21:38:55'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "<strong>@apankrat:</strong> Could be. Thanks for the link.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a colour version of the last logo that I kinda like even though all it has is
    a \"7\". That's the most relation to Pleiades as I can think of with this symbol.
    This symbol is as close to type style as I can make it. So instead of making pure
    square I've rounded it, also making some vague relation to a computer monitor
    (duh)...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado XIII Colour_5467.jpg]\r\n\r\nwith
    some zoomed-in detail:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado XIII Colour
    (Detail)_6108.jpg]\r\n\r\nI must admit (against much liking from you guys) that
    my version of \"P as @\" is not really working, because it seems too busy. Maybe
    it would work if the curve around \"p\" would be a bit bigger so it wouldn't be
    too close to the letter, but unfortunately it would be quite hard to make the
    connection with it on the left side and still keeping it symmetric on the right
    side..."
  created: '2010-04-13 23:38:45'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: This last one, while good, says to me more TV network than programming venue.
  created: '2010-04-13 23:42:24'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "@Vladimir: I don't know to which XP logo are you referring.\r\n@I'm guessing
    Vladimir meant old Xerox logo.\r\n\r\nIt is an old Windows logo - sorry it may
    not have been XP but Win 98!   Here it is \r\nhttp://img474.imageshack.us/img474/1825/windows98od1.jpg"
  created: '2010-04-14 02:32:43'
- author:
    name: paluro
  body: "This is for me #2\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logo copy_3902.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-14 10:16:45'
- author:
    name: paluro
  body: "free elements an geometrical shapes are dinamic for this subjet.\r\nTha last
    logo work in your post of \"13.Apr.2010 3.38pm\" I like it too,\r\nvery good work
    but\"seven\" is it so important to communicate?\r\nGood work \r\npaluro\r\n\r\nPD:do
    you work inparing the concept with key word \"soft\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-14 10:32:23'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "<strong>@paluro</strong>: Seven is just as important as those seven shapes/bubbles
    are. Basically they're not important. Number seven relates to Pleiades greek mythology
    or broader meaning of pleiades (seven equally minded people)... So seven (in any
    way shape or form) is just a symbol that's related to pleiades.\r\n\r\nThe thing
    I don't understand in your post is: \"<cite>do you work inparing the concept with
    key word \"soft\"</cite>\". Can you elaborate a bit on this as well?"
  created: '2010-04-14 13:28:32'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Ok. This is slowly getting to the point when I become fed up with it and
    stop working on it for a while. To popular demand I've made a usable version of
    the logo <strong>P as @</strong>.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pleiado
    XII B_3815.jpg]\r\n\r\nI've tried putting type lower (a bit further away from
    the symbol), but they looked too disconnected. Anyway. I realised that I don't
    like this logo too much because I may have a problem with the local mobile provider
    <em>Mobitel</em> with this logo (brilliant in my opinion). It's not that company
    businesses compete for the same market, but this logo has a very strong brand...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Mobitel_5198.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    while looking at this latter logo I can only realise what a bad job I've done
    with my logo. :( Too busy... too much info... not memorable... I think that <strong>\"7\"
    logo</strong> is stronger in this regard."
  created: '2010-04-14 22:48:39'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: I like the way the "p" and the "i" merge in a figure and ground manner  in
    that last one.
  created: '2010-04-24 02:10:16'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "Anyway folks. For the time being the <strong>Seven Pleiado</strong> logo
    is what's used. For now. Until I get a breakthrough idea that would make it more
    software development and design with a twist... ;)\r\n\r\n\"p as @\" was way too
    busy, the \"scattered logo\" didn't actually work as a logo without an actual
    symbol. Those scattered dots were merely logo background.\r\n\r\nSo that's it...\r\n\r\n...for
    now..."
  created: '2010-04-29 10:59:23'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "again, I'd love to have over a month to develop a logo.\r\n\r\nwhat are you
    guys doing that I'm clearly missing?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-30 00:14:27'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "@Ratbaggy: I'm not sure I understand what you're asking? Would you like to
    say that:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>you <strong>always</strong> have to finish a logo in
    much less than a month or</li>\r\n<li>you're never able to finish a logo in less
    than few months...</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nIf your problem is the first one, than
    you'll have to convince your customers that a long-to-be-used-logo is a complex
    process that can't be done in a few sketches and digitised in a week. On some
    rare lightning-strikes occasions when you get a really great idea in the first
    second and also execute it perfectly.\r\n\r\nIn my case, meetings usually stretch
    on a longer time scale so even with a great idea I wouldn't be able to finish
    it in less than a month. Usually."
  created: '2010-05-01 14:18:18'
- author:
    name: TKDesign
    picture: 119423
  body: "I don't really know how to charge people for \"conceptualizing\" as a freelancer.
    Can I get your advice?\r\n\r\nAre you charging your client per hour for all the
    time you brainstorm? How many hours are you up to now and how do you justify it
    to your client if they question it? "
  created: '2010-05-05 18:02:33'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "#2 all the way.\r\n\r\nThis word is floating amongst the stars. It's engaging,
    deep, and meaningful.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/logo%20copy_3902.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    disagree entirely with the notion that the stars are merely a background to the
    logo. They ARE the logo.\r\n\r\nRefer to the Bahamas logo:\r\nhttp://sublimedesign.files.wordpress.com/2008/07/bahamas.png\r\n\r\nI
    know this is a little late, but I really feel that this direction is the strongest
    and most interesting. The stars only need to be stronger."
  created: '2010-05-16 05:57:26'
date: '2010-03-09 00:24:34'
title: Work in progress

---
