---
author:
  name: Jason Castle
  picture: 112306
body: "I know this has been discussed here once before. But, I just noticed that the
  circumflex of h-circumflex in Adobe's Minion Pro family is misplaced. It is aligned
  over the left stem; it should be aligned over the center of the entire letter, which
  means it may also need to be raised a bit, as well. As far as I know, Esperanto
  is the only language that uses this letter. I print Esperanto text quite frequently,
  and Minion Pro is the font I prefer to use. However, h-circumflex is by far the
  least used letter in Esperanto, so it's only while adding an OT feature to better
  support the language (for my own use, of course) that I happened to notice the misplaced
  circumflex.\r\n\r\nI've been reading (and writing/speaking) Esperanto since I was
  14, and in over 40 years of reading it, I've very rarely seen an h-circumflex designed
  with the accent over the stem, and when I do, it looks very strange. So, type designers,
  for what it's worth, please center the circumflex of h-circumflex over the entire
  letter. Also, in case anybody's interested, I just created a simple OT feature that
  supports the 2 common methods that many Esperantists use (unfortunately!) to type
  the Esperanto accented letters (\u0108 \u011C \u0124 \u0134 \u015C \u016C \u0109
  \u011D \u0125 \u0135 \u015D \u016D) when they don't have direct access to those
  characters: the x-method (Cx Gx ... cx gx ...) and the h-method (Ch Gh ... ch gh).
  For my own purposes, I've also created a keyboard layout (for Mac OS) that allows
  me to access those characters via option+letter."
comments:
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "Thanks for the input! :)\r\nI have always wondered about that letter, and
    I have tried a few different solutions myself...\r\n\r\nI admit to having placed
    the circumflex centered on the stem on a few occasions (sorry!), but mostly I
    have placed it so it \"hangs\" from the stem over the bowl of the h.\r\n\r\nBut
    I have also frequently placed it \"next to\" the stem, centered above the bowl
    in the same height as over an o (\xF4] - I think this often makes for a better
    balanced glyph, and it avoids the excessive height this glyph would get in fonts
    where the ascenders are taller than the Caps height.\r\nHow do you view this design
    choice - speaking as a native reader?"
  created: '2010-03-11 20:18:28'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Roger, that seems like a good solution, as long as the circumflex isn't bumping
    into the stem, of course. As for the height of the circumflex for lowercase 'h',
    I place it at the same height as the circumflex on caps. I think this looks best
    on a page of text: that is, either the circumflexes are above cap height, or above
    x-height; this is important for Esperanto, as there are a lot of circumflexes;
    having a 3rd height could look a bit ragged. Of course, if the ascender height
    is taller than the cap height, then your solution would probably be best, if there's
    room horizontally. In any case, don't worry too much about it; the \u0125 is being
    phased out over time in actual usage; but, there are still a few words that must
    have it."
  created: '2010-03-12 05:08:13'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Lowercase \u0125 is a character which always tempts me to leave out Esperanto
    support altogether. While it is certainly not the only language with problematic
    diacritics, since it is a *constructed* language I would think they would have
    been more sensible than to put a circumflex over a letter with an ascender, or
    at least be in a better position to change truly dumb decisions after the fact.\r\n\r\nIPA
    has a convention whereby a diacritic normally placed over a letter may be placed
    under a letter with an ascender where no confusion will arise. I wish Esperanto
    had adopted such an approach, giving us \u0109, \u011D, h\u032D, \u0135, \u015D,
    and \u016D as Esperanto's accented characters. Of course, as the use of these
    characters becomes less frequent, the point becomes rather moot.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-12 15:39:43'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Andr\xE9\u2014 Leaving out Esperanto support altogether might anger some
    in the Esperanto community, if the font were really popular. There was a recent
    controversy about a free font that ParaType released that supported many minority
    languages that use the Cyrillic alphabet, but for some reason they left out support
    for Esperanto. A Russian Esperantist was very unhappy about that and has blogged
    and tweeted quite a bit about it. Personally, I wouldn't want that sort of 'bad
    press'. (BTW, the Esperanto community is quite vocal and they tend to be polyglots
    as well as avid Internet users, so they post/blog/tweet in quite a few languages.)
    In any case, it's only 12 additional, easily created glyphs; and they're part
    of the standard Latin Extended-A codepage, so it doesn't make sense to me to only
    include part of that set. But, yes, there are a few glyphs I would rather not
    bother with ... (Eng comes to mind).\r\n\r\nAs for how Esperanto >should< have
    been designed, that is a contoversial and touchy subject, and this is not the
    place to discuss it. As someone who often prints text in Esperanto, there are
    many things that I wish were a bit different; but, I have yet to discover a perfect
    language in terms of typography. (Although, I must admit that text in Latin usually
    looks very nice. Ah, and then there's Arabic ...) The fact is, Esperanto has 12
    accented characters, and that will probably not change in our lifetimes. Only
    the h-circumflex (\u0124 \u0125) is being used less frequently these days; the
    others are all very frequently used. "
  created: '2010-03-12 18:15:25'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Jason\r\n\r\nThe operative word in my post was 'tempts'.\r\n\r\nI do agree
    with most of your points, though personally I find it strange that the omission
    of any language would inspire anger (disappointment yes, anger no) given that
    no font can reasonably be expected to support all languages (or even all Latin-based
    ones). Since ParaType is a Russian company, it does not seem surprising to me
    (let alone worthy of backlash) that they would be more concerned with Cyrillic
    than Latin support for a particular face.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-12 18:35:06'
- author:
    name: Roger S. Nelsson
    picture: 114302
  body: "@ Jason: so you would rather leave out the Eng, would you? ;)\r\n\r\nLet
    me assure you that many of my friends and neighbors appreciate fonts with a properly
    designed Eng - it is very much a part of the Saami languages used in my region.
    And the Eng is also part of the Latin Extended-A set you advocate to fully support.
    So you think it should be mandatory to support Esperanto from that set, but not
    Saami? Why? It just sounded a bit hypocritical...\r\n\r\nBut if you just mean
    that you DO include the Eng, but would rather not, I can understand that. It is
    not a fast and simple glyph to make - it is not just a combination of a base glyph
    and a diacritic, it has to be drawn. Personally I enjoy making Engs - they are
    a fun exercise in glyph design... But I also know a lot of the people who use
    them... :)"
  created: '2010-03-12 21:11:47'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "The \u0125 that is shown in the Unicode chart ([[http://unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0100.pdf]])
    has the circumflex not quite centred over the ascender but still noticeably left
    of the centre of the letter. If font designers are relying on the Unicode charts
    for rare diacritic combinations, they could easily conclude that the circumflex
    should be over the ascender.\r\n\r\nIf the Esperanto community is unanimous in
    finding this form incorrect, you might want to contact them about changing the
    reference glyph. Although Unicode's standard disclaimer is that the charts are
    for reference only and should not be taken to indicate the correct shape of the
    glyphs, there have been past cases of the reference glyphs used by Unicode being
    changed to reflect the preferred forms of the user community."
  created: '2010-03-13 10:10:42'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 given that no font can reasonably be expected to support all
    languages (or even all Latin-based ones)</cite>\r\n\r\nIn these days, I think
    one can reasonably expect Latin fonts of a certain kind supporting all Latin-related
    languages. Why shouldn\u2019t it?\r\n\r\nMaybe people from big countries/language
    communities are less aware of this than people who speak and type Saami or Lithuanian.
    But the ASCII days are gone and we\u2019re on Unicode now. For my own fonts I
    decided a time ago that comprehensive support for all European-Latin languages
    is the reasonable minimum target. Of course, supporting Vietnamese or African
    languages may be seen as another matter \u2026"
  created: '2010-03-13 12:22:08'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: African languages only get complex because of still-forming orthographies
    and still-developing preferences regarding letter forms.  That said, Vietnamese
    isn't too hard as its orthography is well-established and only requires one or
    two extra diacritics beyond that used for European languages (and of course doubling
    them, but that can be taken care of a number of different ways).
  created: '2010-03-13 13:25:49'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Andreas\r\n\r\n<cite> In these days, I think one can reasonably expect Latin
    fonts of a certain kind supporting all Latin-related languages. Why shouldn\u2019t
    it? </cite>\r\n\r\nCan you clarify what you mean by 'of a certain kind'?\r\n\r\nIf
    someone sets out to support *all* latin-based language, where exactly are they
    going to get information about the necessary glyph repetoire? While one might
    reasonably be able to assemble a list of all of the glyphs used in those languages
    which have official status in some nation or other, assembling information on
    minority languages, especially those with emerging orthographies would be IMHO
    very difficult.\r\n\r\nMoreover, since no designer is going to actually be familiar
    with more than a small handful of languages, they aren't going to be aware of
    design conventions which vary from language to language. For example, most European
    designers are likely familiar with the use of ogonek in Polish, but very few are
    likely aware of how ogonek placement in Navajo differs from that of Polish.\r\n\r\nOne
    can take it upon themselves to research these issues, but with ~4000 languages
    spoken on earth, no designer is going to be able to manage an even superficial
    investigation into more than a small proportion of these languages.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    For my own fonts I decided a time ago that comprehensive support for all European-Latin
    languages is the reasonable minimum target. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat strikes me as
    a perfectly reasonable position to take, but it still excludes a great many latin-based
    languages. My point is simply that designers must make some sort of decision of
    this type, and that decision will inevitably exclude some language which someone
    else might think should be part of that minimum target. For me, support for natural
    languages takes priority over support for constructed ones.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-13 16:24:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: That h-circumflex glyph in Georgia I keep wanting to read as an fi ligature.
  created: '2010-03-13 16:57:40'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "@Jason\r\n\r\nI'm curious about the OT feature you mentioned.  What winds
    up in the underlying code -- \u0109, cx, or ch?"
  created: '2010-03-13 18:39:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Would you rather have an h with the circumflex placed in a non-optimal position
    or no h circumflex at all?\r\n\r\nAnd given how long all of us have been making
    fonts with this character, is it only now that you comment on its preferred position?\r\n\r\nFurther,
    since you are someone who makes fonts, why not make a font with the proper h circumflex
    position rather than bitch about another font.\r\n\r\nRespectfully"
  created: '2010-03-14 02:12:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Hi Jason. Aligning the circumflex over the ascender in hcircumflex is very
    much the "house style" here at Adobe (not just Minion), so I appreciate the input.
  created: '2010-03-15 06:08:23'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/node/68413|about\u2026]]\r\n\r\n((why is this linking
    not working???))"
  created: '2010-03-15 12:20:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Selecting the best <em>default</em> positioning of marks relative to letters
    is tricky. Language-specific positioning preferences are possible via OpenType
    language system tags, but in some ways determining and implementing specific preferences
    is easier than deciding what the general case should be.
  created: '2010-03-15 18:10:00'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Wow, I never would have expected this to be a \"hot topic\", which I noticed
    as I logged in just now. Let me see if I can respond to everybody's comments.\r\n\r\nRoger:
    I would never leave out an Eng (or eng, for that matter). If I'm going to add
    Latin Ext-A, then I will include all the glyphs for that codepage. \r\n\r\nJongseong:
    Thanks for pointing that out on the Unicode chart; actually, I think that design
    isn't bad, although I would probably move the circumflex a bit to the right.\r\n\r\nAndreas:
    I agree with you. The minimum charset for me includes Basic Latin, Latin 1 Supplement,
    and Latin Ext-A. If/when I feel there's enough demand for it to warrant the extra
    work, I would consider adding Latin Ext-B, but have no plans to support Vietnamese
    in the near future, etc. You specifically said \"comprehensive support for all
    European-Latin languages is the reasonable minimum target.\" That, of course,
    does not include Native American languages, etc. One could easily spend a huge
    amount of time researching how to properly support >all< Latin-based languages.\r\n\r\nTom:
    Excellent question. As I have recently started editing (and writing) Wikipedia
    articles in Esperanto, as well as editing a major online Esperanto dictionary,
    I've noticed that the underlying character strings always use what is called the
    x-method, thanks to the convention that was developed before Unicode became available.
    So, for instance, instead of \xAB\u011D\xBB (g-circumflex) as seen by the user,
    the underlying character string is 'gx'. (Personally, I think the x-method is
    terribly ugly and difficult to read, but that's beside the point.) So, since I've
    implemented an OpenType feature to automatically convert cx, gx, hx, .... to \u0109,
    \u011D, \u0125, ...., respectively, the underlying text remains as it was input
    ... as with any OpenType feature (as far as I know). I hope that makes sense.
    My feature also supports the so-called h-method (ch, gh, hh, ...), as proposed
    by the author of Esperanto, at a time when the circumflexed letters were not readily
    available to printers. \r\n\r\nterminaldesign: I (and all Esperantists, I'm sure)
    would rather an imperfectly placed circumflex over the h than no circumflex at
    all (which of course would no longer be an h-circumflex). Certain words require
    the h-circumflex to distinguish them from words with just a plain h; for example,
    horo=hour; \u0125oro=choir. As for my timing, as I mentioned in my original post,
    it was only when I added an OT feature to Minion, that I happened to notice the
    placement of the circumflex over the h. (With my aging eyes, I'm not likely to
    notice the placement of the circumflex when reading at 10 or 12 point on the monitor,
    or even printed, for that matter.) I didn't think I was \"bitching\" about it,
    but posted mainly because I was hoping somebody from Adobe might read it and perhaps
    reconsider how they design that particular glyph. Which leads to ...\r\n\r\nChristopher:
    I'm delighted somebody from Adobe is paying attention!\r\n\r\nI hope I've responsed
    to all the comments that are directly related to my original post. If I've overlooked
    anything, my apologies. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 18:47:37'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Just a quick question regarding your opentype feature: Are you intending
    this to be a way for users to more easily <em> type </em> circumflexed characters,
    or as a way of <em> converting </em> pre-existing text using the Cx or Ch conventions
    (where C = base consonant)?\r\n\r\nIf the former, I'd say this is definitely more
    appropriate to implement as a keyboard layout than as an opentype feature (and
    you wouldn't need to use the option key as you state your current layout uses
    -- you could declare c, g, h, j, and s as dead keys and map (e.g.) c followed
    by x to \u0109 and c followed by any character C (where C \u2260 x) to cC.\r\n\r\nThis
    would be preferable since it would be useable in any application, including both
    applications which don't allow the user to specify Esperanto as a language (I'm
    assuming you've localised this to Esperanto) and those which don't support GSUB
    features.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-15 19:22:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Jason, sorry for my harsh choice of words, my apologies.
  created: '2010-03-15 19:44:19'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Andr\xE9: I already developed a keyboard layout for the former. The sad fact
    is, many Esperantists use the x-method for emails, forum messages, and many older
    texts are encoded that way. I find them very annoying and difficult to read. The
    advantage of the OT feature is that I can simply copy the text into InDesign (for
    example), set the stylist set to this feature, and voil\xE0! I used to have to
    do a series of search and replace. For Windows users, or others who cannot (or
    will not) use a keyboard layout, they can enter text using their habitual x-method,
    and with the stylistic set being on, the text will be automatically converted
    to the proper \"\u0109apelitaj\" letters.\r\n\r\nBTW, the keyboard convention
    you're suggesting (which is the method I originally used) causes a real problem
    with the combination \"ux\" (for \xAB\u016D\xBB, that is, u-breve) if you later
    want to type in French, \xABch\xE2teaux\xBB, for example. (Many, if not most,
    Esperantists are multilingual, so this is a real issue.) In addition to the OT
    feature that I just recently started adding to my fonts, I also have another OT
    feature that allows the user to use the ASCII circumflex as a trigger; this eliminates
    the problem with French (and other languages that use 'x' after 'u', etc.), and
    it is an alternate input method that most Esperantists are already familiar with.
    With the combination of the keyboard layout and the 2 OT features, I think I have
    most every input method covered. However, some Esperantists are pretty obstinate,
    and seem to think that a bunch of 'x's (which is not part of the Esperanto alphabet)
    makes Esperanto look more exotic, or something; others simply use Windows and
    don't seem to know how to install a keyboard layout, or don't want to use any
    of the other many utilities that are readily available. I continue to campain
    for proper orthography, but one can only do so much; but, I've had a few converts
    (thanks to my constant badgering on Twitter).\r\n\r\nterminaldesign: Apology accepted!
    ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 20:14:34'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Ah. I didn't realize that you were intending this as a multilingual rather
    than purely Esperanto layout. Yes, then I suspect it would be impossible to design
    something that conformed to simply typing according to the x-convention.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-15 20:21:45'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "It just occured to me (after an Esperantist on Twitter showed some curiosity
    about this whole issue and wanted to see the Minion Pro h-circumflex), that I
    could try pasting an image here. (I've never tried that before.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/h-circumflekso_5837.png]\r\n\r\nAdobe's
    version on the left, mine on the right.\r\n\r\nHa! That was easy. Maybe I'll start
    hanging out here more often, now that I see how easy it is to illustrate what
    I'm talking about.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9: I try to keep my life as simple as possible.
    I usually type in English, French, Spanish, and Esperanto fairly regularly; so,
    I prefer to just use one keyboard layout. (In all honesty, my Esperanto layout
    doesn't work perfectly for French because of the c-cedilla.) But, I still have
    to occasionally change for Cyrillic and Greek.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 21:59:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: There are basically two ways in which marks can be positioned relative to
    letters in a pleasing way, i.e. a way that looks natural, makes unambiguous to
    which letter a mark applies, and does not distract during reading. One way is
    to optically link the mark to a strong feature of the letter and the other way
    is to centre it optically on the whole letter. The key word in both cases is <em>optically,</em>
    which means taking into account the balance of weight in the letter + mark(s).
    [Jason, I think you have moved the circumflex just a bit too far to the right;
    it is beginning to drift off into space.] Some user communities may prefer a particular
    approach, and some writing systems might have quite specific rules (e.g. the positioning
    of vowels beneath Hebrew letters, which are optically centred on some letters
    and positioned relative to a vertical stem in others).
  created: '2010-03-15 23:16:42'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "<cite> Adobe's version on the left, mine on the right. </cite>\r\nJason,
    you mentioned your aging eyes. (And I resemble that remark.) Looking at your example,
    I still have the \"Georgia\" problem Craig Eliason cited: When I squint to approximate
    text resolution, I read it as a tall fi ligature. I'm curious whether you find
    you <strong> don't</strong> have this problem with the modified design in text
    settings. (Do you avoid ligatures in your text? Is the meaning that unambiguous
    from context?)\r\n\r\nI'd think making this glyph clear would require raising
    the circumflex higher, to create a clear separation between the ascender stem
    and the left end of the accent. This worries me because unlike the fonts you mention,
    most text fonts I'm familiar with have ascenders that are already taller than
    the capitals. (Helvetica is not a text face...)"
  created: '2010-03-16 00:59:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I see the fi ligature, too, but I would think that, in the context of text,
    the Esperanto reader would not see it that way. In context of text, readers have
    very little problem distinguishing other similar letters (l, I, 1, 0, o, O). If
    there were some word in Esperanto where either fi or \u0125 could fit, then it
    might be a problem. But even then, I bet the context of the sentence would sort
    it out."
  created: '2010-03-16 01:36:48'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "A comment on Twitter from a Japanese Esperantist (translated here): \"The
    Adobe version of the h-circumflex is very strange. It looks as though it's tipping
    its hat in greeting.\" Note: The affectionate name in Esperanto for the circumflex
    (and breve) is \"\u0109apelo\" or hat.\r\n\r\nA couple other Esperantists checked
    out this discussion and enjoyed the discussion, even though they're not designers
    (or native speakers of English, for that matter); one was pleasantly surprised
    that we have stayed on topic and are very civil, which evidently is somewhat uncommon
    on forums, from what she said.\r\n\r\nJohn: Thanks for the feedback. Your eye
    is certainly better than mine; but, I did that in a hurry, since it's just for
    my own use anyway. But, as I think is obvious from the example above, the h-circumflex
    on the right is much more legible, which is really the main concern, even though
    the circumflex itself is closer to the stem than the Adobe version. It's really
    mostly about legibility and >optical< balance, as you say."
  created: '2010-03-16 01:36:48'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '(Just to clarify: By "text" above I mean natural language text that one reads
    immersively, not programming code or license plates or whatever.)'
  created: '2010-03-16 01:44:37'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "David, Mark: Good point. But, I think Mark is right about context, etc. Besides,
    these days, the letter \xAB\u0125\xBB is only >necessary< in a few words; in many
    words, such as \xABar\u0125itekturo\xBB, more and more people are using the more
    modern spelling \xABarkitekturo\xBB, etc. In any case, I think raising the circumflex
    until it no longer looks like the fi ligature is a good idea. \r\n\r\nAs for height,
    I just got a comment from an Esperantist who cautions that the circumflex should
    not be too low, that is, at the level of the accents over vowels; definitely at
    the height of cap accents, or a bit higher.\r\n\r\nChristopher; I've only received
    4 responses so far to my informal survey about which \u0125 design the Esperantist
    community (on Twitter) prefers, but the response so far has unanimously been that
    the Adobe version looks strange. I agree, of course."
  created: '2010-03-16 01:50:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jason: <em>But, as I think is obvious from the example above, the h-circumflex
    on the right is much more legible...</em>\r\n\r\nAt least two contributors to
    this thread have suggested that they misrecognise this form as an \uFB01 ligature,
    so I don't think we can say that the legibility benefit is \u2018obvious\u2019.\r\n\r\nIt
    might also be misread as a hooked-h -- \u0266 --, although in real text situations
    that would be less common.\r\n\r\nOne of the things that always surprised me about
    Esperanto is that Zamenhof appears not to have considered that requiring diacritics
    not used in any other language would be a technical barrier to popularisation
    of the language."
  created: '2010-03-16 03:12:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I see the fi ligature, too, but I would think that, in the context of
    text, the Esperanto reader would not see it that way. In context of text, readers
    have very little problem distinguishing other similar letters (l, I, 1, 0, o,
    O). If there were some word in Esperanto where either fi or \u0125 could fit,
    then it might be a problem. But even then, I bet the context of the sentence would
    sort it out.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a fair point. But given that (if I understand
    its purpose correctly) Esperanto has aspirations to be easy to learn as a <em>second</em>
    language, many of its readers may have contextual expectations that are set up
    by their primary languages. "
  created: '2010-03-16 03:50:18'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite> Christopher; I've only received 4 responses so far to my informal
    survey about which \u0125 design the Esperantist community (on Twitter) prefers,
    but the response so far has unanimously been that the Adobe version looks strange.
    I agree, of course.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo noted, Jason. Thanks."
  created: '2010-03-16 04:59:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jason, can you post some samples of how it's written?\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-16 05:48:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite>For Windows users, or others who cannot (or will not) use a keyboard
    layout, they can enter text using their habitual x-method, and with the stylistic
    set being on, the text will be automatically converted to the proper \"\u0109apelitaj\"
    letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are assuming that these fellow Esperantists will all
    have upgraded to Office 2010 or have InDesign, yes? Is this a realistic expectation?\r\n\r\nOT
    stylistic sets are not widely supported yet, unfortunately."
  created: '2010-03-16 12:47:19'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "kentlew: <cite> Is this a realistic expectation? </cite>\r\n\r\nNo, it's
    not. But there are many utilities available that make it very easy to directly
    type the letters with '\u0109apelo' (circumflex and breve). As one of the examples
    on the blog above shows, there is even a utility available on the iPhone now that
    allows proper input of the Esperanto accented letters. The OT feature (stylistic
    set) that I've started adding to my fonts is simply a way of allowing those used
    to the x-method, to use that input method and have the letters substituted on
    the fly. Yes, unfortunately, not many people will be able to access the feature.
    But, I can, and it will save me from doing a lot of search and replace when I
    download pre-Unicode texts that, for me, are virtually illegible."
  created: '2010-03-16 13:57:58'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/h-circumflekso-enketo_4844.png]\r\n\r\nOk,
    now that I look at it again, I must admit that the circumflex on the second h
    above looks a bit far to the right (per John Hudson's observation) and perhaps
    it could be a bit higher to avoid any ambiguity with the 'fi' ligature. But, as
    of this morning, 17 out of 17 Esperantists from around the world (not including
    myself) have responded to my informal survey (using the above example and simply
    asking which design they prefer), and they unanimously prefer the one on the right.
    The one on the left is Adobe's version (from Minion Pro).\r\n\r\nNick: One Esperantist
    was kind enough to do some research and provided a set of historic examples on
    his blog of the h-circumflex from 1905 to the present: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ipernity.com/doc/kallekn/album/179452
    \ \r\n\r\nHe's included several thumbnails that can be enlarged to see the details
    of the designs. He points out that in some early books, the design is more or
    less like the Minion \xAB\u0125\xBB, but that the circumflex has moved to the
    right over the years, and that this is now the most common and preferred position.
    He concludes, however, that \"both designs are possible, and perhaps it's a matter
    of taste\". In any case, as I already mentioned, 17 out of 17 Esperantists prefer
    the design on the right, so I think that's worth noting. BTW, the blog author
    points out that a couple of the designs do indeed look a bit like the 'fi' ligature.
    Another design shows the arm of the 'h' has been shortened slightly to (presumably)
    avoid this problem.  (I'd be happy to translate the individual comments under
    the examples, if anyone is interested.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-16 14:09:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I would have never seen the 'fi' misreading just by looking at the graphic
    you showed: it was only in the Georgia in this thread (small, and inline with
    other letters) that I saw the confusion arising. So the way the question was asked
    may have affected the responses.\r\n\r\nNote: I have no idea if showing the alternatives
    in small text settings would have swung the balance of the Esperantist vote (or
    even budged it at all). But I thought I'd throw the idea out there that considering
    design alternatives in a context like they will actually be used makes for more
    useful testing, especially if the potential issue is character ambiguity."
  created: '2010-03-16 14:12:38'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "eliason <cite>... considering design alternatives in a context like they
    will actually be used makes for more useful testing, especially if the potential
    issue is character ambiguity.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, of course. I'm not going to take
    the time, however, to do a well-designed survey. I mainly used a large example
    so that users could easily see the difference. In any case, from my own expereince
    of reading Esperanto over a period of many years, and from the unanimous response
    from others, I think it's fair to say that the centered circumflex over the 'h'
    is the preferred design. If we type designers are so inclined, we can explore
    ways to make the design of the h-circumflex as unambiguous as possible. "
  created: '2010-03-16 14:18:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Sounds good. I'm grateful to know about both the preferred form for users
    and the risk of ambiguity. Thanks for starting the thread that introduced me to
    both!
  created: '2010-03-16 14:24:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I happen to know a fellow, Roy McCoy, who does typesetting for the head office
    of the international Esperanto Association (in Rotterdam), so I wrote him about
    this issue. He read this thread, consulted with the three professional Esperantists
    (apparently yes, that's a word) at head office, and came back to say that they
    concluded that there is no consensus or standard in this area, and they do not
    have a general preference for one form or the other.\r\n\r\nI am rather swamped
    right now, else I would try to reproduce his full email complete with images.
    Perhaps later.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-17 23:51:25'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "@Jason\r\n\r\nWhat happens if you try to search a text where the user sees
    \u0109, etc. but all the underlying strings are cx etc.?  No results?"
  created: '2010-03-18 22:45:18'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Jason,\r\n\r\nThere might be an underlying reason the circumflex shifted
    to the center -- isn't that the default position for a non-spacing diacritic?
    Perhaps it was just easier to leave it that way.\r\n\r\nI like Zamenhof's 1929
    one; it seems to slant ever so slightly to the right, so it's not as smack bang
    on top of the world as in Adobe's Minion. Perhaps it's a (lucky!) printing artifact
    -- compare with the \u0109's and \u011D's."
  created: '2010-03-18 23:27:38'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Thomas\u2014 Unfortunately, UEA (Universala Esperanto-Asocio) in Rotterdam
    doesn't always seem to be in tune with what the rest of us Esperantists are doing
    in the real world. (Please don't quote me on that!) In any case, 18 out of 18
    respondents in an informal survey I did on Twitter preferred the circumflex being
    centered. Ok, one young guy wavered back and forth (over several tweets), and
    a young woman on Facebook said she usually handwrites the circumflex over the
    arm of the 'h'. Obviously, type designers are free to design the glyph the way
    they think looks best. But, unless taste among Esperantists changes drastically,
    I will continue to design my '\u0125' with the circumflex centered ... a bit more
    precisely than I did in the example I included here. Of course, certain designs
    might require different solutions.  \u2014 Funny I would see your response today;
    I was just thinking about Laura earlier today.\r\n\r\nTom\u2014 <cite>What happens
    if you try to search a text where the user sees \u0109, etc. but all the underlying
    strings are cx etc.?</cite>\r\nGood question. I think it applies to similar OT
    features in any font, whether it's a ligature subsitution or any other. OpenType
    is all about subsitution, so I would imagine that things are set up to search
    and alphabetize properly. I'd have to do some experimenting to find out; but,
    I bet somebody on Typophile already knows the answer.\r\n\r\nTheunis\u2014 <cite>There
    might be an underlying reason the circumflex shifted to the center -- isn't that
    the default position for a non-spacing diacritic?</cite> \r\nI think it started
    shifting to the right before we had digital type, but I'd have to check the samples
    and dates.\r\n\r\n<cite>I like Zamenhof's 1929 one ...</cite>\r\nAs the language
    itself evolves, I imagine taste in how the h-circumflex should look might change
    also. I'll keep my eyes open for both.\r\n\r\neliason \u2014 You're welcome. I'm
    glad to see there's been some serious interest in the topic.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-19 03:04:01'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "@ Jason\r\n\r\nI'd be curious to try your special font if that's possible
    (tom at bluesky dot org)."
  created: '2010-03-19 04:24:54'
- author:
    name: Jason Castle
    picture: 112306
  body: "Tom\u2014 <cite>I'd be curious to try your special font if that's possible</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think I've only added the new OT feature to Adobe's Minion (for my own purposes),
    so obviously I can't send you that. But, I'll start adding it to my own fonts
    in a week or two, and will send you one then."
  created: '2010-03-19 20:47:50'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "I did a \"hcircumflex\" in my endeavour: http://typophile.com/node/73413\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic1_4494.png]\r\nand
    this is default result in FontForge. Quite nice, isn't it?"
  created: '2010-09-22 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A Russian Esperantist was very unhappy about that and has blogged and
    tweeted quite a bit about it. Personally, I wouldn't want that sort of 'bad press'.</cite>\r\n\r\nThreatening
    bad press from the Esperanto community is like threatening bad press from the
    Trekkie community for not kerning apostrophes to fully support the Klingon Hamlet."
  created: '2010-09-22 15:43:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: What about placing it at the same height as it would be for aeiousc etc.?  It
    seems to me if designed right, it would look okay there, and appear more or less
    centered as well as aligning with the others.  Is there any precedent in Esperanto
    for that?
  created: '2010-09-22 23:02:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: On a related note, /hdieresis/ can be found at U+7719. In which orthography
    is that used, and should the dieresis take a similar position to the /hcircumflex/?
  created: '2011-01-17 21:19:23'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: This is <em>really</em> rare; it's used to transliterate the Arabic letter
    Ha from Kurdish, but just for words which are borrowed from other languages to
    Kurdish. For its position, I think the dieresis would be centralized to total
    width.
  created: '2011-01-17 23:12:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Igor, you really know some obscure things! What references are you looking
    at?\r\n\r\nWould you put the dieresis above the ascender height, rather than at
    vowel-dieresis height?"
  created: '2011-01-18 00:01:46'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "While I was doing the survey to my font, I took notes about many unusual
    characters \u2013unhappily, not to all them. My sources are many sites about linguistics,
    Wikipedia, proposals presented to Unicode Consortium and also articles about minorities
    and their cultures.\r\n\r\nYes, I'd put dieresis above \u1E27 ascender. It would
    become very tight at the top of n-like curve."
  created: '2011-01-18 00:26:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Especially in heavier or more condensed fonts.
  created: '2011-01-19 06:25:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'One addition to an ancient discussion: If your ascenders are taller than
    the cap-height, ascending letters with accents may benefit from being lowered
    to align with the caps.'
  created: '2014-07-09 15:51:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I agree that Adobe's choice of putting the accent over the ascender is unfortunate.\r\n\r\nBut
    in common with accents over ordinary lower-case letters without ascenders, at
    least there is not a large amount of empty space under the accent.\r\n\r\nWhich
    leads me to ask why no one has mentioned a third possibility for h-circumflex
    in this thread; is it so obviously bad that it is clearly to be excluded from
    consideration - or is it in violation of a basic principle that accents must be
    outside the letter shape?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/esp_hcir_4498.jpg]\r\n\r\nThat
    is, the accent is clearly not outside the letter shape - but is there a rule that
    it must be?"
  created: '2014-07-09 16:37:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "It is not my intention to propose this as a model but since there appears
    to be no specification of what Esperanto is expecting, we may simply make a little
    experience with the type of equipment that was available when the alphabet came
    out, namely typewriters. When I started typing, typewriters were mechanical and
    we would first type the accent, the carriage would not move, and then we would
    type the letter. That way we could get an eacute by first typing the acute and
    then the letter e. \r\n\r\nThere is still an \"old\" Selectric typewriter in a
    locked room in my department (and it is still used once in a while, I am told).
    I just made the experiment, typing a circumflex and then the letter h. Here is
    the result\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hhat_5030.png]\r\nWithout a
    spec, I presume that this is roughly what the first esperantists were expecting
    to get as an h with a circumflex.\r\n\r\nAdded: it seems that this was also acceptable
    in printing since the 1905 edition of <a href=\"https://archive.org/stream/fundamentodeesp00zamegoog#page/n44/mode/2up\"><em>Fundamento
    de esperanto</em></a> contains the following specimens (page 27) \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/samples_5348.png]\r\nwhere
    the last occurrence is the name of the letter as printed in the text."
  created: '2014-07-09 20:12:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Looking at the <em>other</em> thread, I see you beat me to the suggestion
    I made! And, of course, we were both beaten in 1905 - although the other forms
    were also used then.
  created: '2014-07-09 21:26:47'
date: '2010-03-11 18:22:57'
title: h-circumflex for Esperanto

---
