---
author:
  name: fontsquirrel
  picture: 118486
body: "Would like to get some professional opinions on Cuf\xF3n. Specifically, I'm
  wondering if you see it in a similar light as WOFF. IE: It is a web-only format
  and can't be installed on a desktop machine. I'm starting to see some designers
  offering Cuf\xF3n support in their pro licenses. \r\n\r\nSo, would you equate the
  two to be similar? Can you see any downside to Cuf\xF3n from an IP perspective?
  \r\n\r\nThe only downside I can see, is that 1) It is a text format and therefore
  easy to edit out domain links. 2) It is easily downloaded and installed on your
  own website. But it is impossible (from what I can tell) to turn back into an OTF.
  \ I can already turn a WOFF back into an OTF.\r\n\r\nWhy or why don't you support
  Cuf\xF3n?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "As a maker of fonts and designer of websites, Cufon works for me. \r\n\r\n#1
    Convenient for designers \r\nEasy to set up and style. Cross-browser compatible.
    \r\n\r\n#2 Enough obfuscation \r\nIn other words, its not the naked font file.
    Yes it can be altered and re-used online. But their are at least enough steps
    that it's an annoyance to do the wrong thing, which clarifies it as \"the wrong
    thing\" imo.\r\n\r\nI've found it to be easier than sifr, but sometimes get a
    flash of unstyled content (so it's not ideal). Ultimately this is a work around,
    but a work-around Im comfortable with since Cufon is a right-now solution to a
    problem WOFF may solve in a year or two."
  created: '2010-03-11 19:41:34'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "One more possible downside: it requires JavaScript. And <a href=\"http://wiki.github.com/sorccu/cufon/known-bugs-and-issues\">other
    bugs & issues</a>.\r\n\r\nIf I was a type maker planning for the future I would
    steer my font production resources to a format that is bound to be the standard
    of the future. That format is WOFF."
  created: '2010-03-11 23:36:31'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "I think Ethan is more interested in the IP perspective. \r\n\r\nFrom the
    technical perspective Cufon delivers the best rendering quality between all other
    available options I tested. It also renders consistently between the browsers
    and OSes. If the Cufon is used sparingly, for headers and such, then the rendering
    quality is all that really matters, and so it's the best option at the moment
    if the licensing permits it."
  created: '2010-03-12 00:53:29'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Cuf\xF3n really isn't a format -- it's a system, or technique, or hack, or
    something.\r\n\r\nI've always thought it was a little weird that a font has to
    be uploaded to the Cuf\xF3n site in order to be transformed into the required
    JSON file. You are technically giving the font to someone else to do this, which
    has IP significance.\r\n\r\nOf course (and not IP related), WOFF (or EOT or raw
    web fonts) is much better for accessibility and text selection.\r\n\r\nAnd it
    all comes down to whether the foundry from which the font came allows either Cuf\xF3n
    embedding or WOFF. One or the other will not be useful at all if it's not allowed
    for the font you want to use."
  created: '2010-03-12 01:09:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@stephen coles\r\n\r\n<em>If I was a type maker planning for the future I
    would steer my font production resources to a format that is bound to be the standard
    of the future. That format is WOFF.</em>\r\n\r\nWOFF is not a font format. It's
    a transport wrapper for any sfnt font. It does not and never will require any
    type designer to \"steer \" their \"font production resources to one thing or
    another\". \r\nAt worst, that's a lie, at best, misleading.\r\nAnd outside of
    Firefox - whose own Jonathan Kew was one of the co-creators of WOFF - there is,
    as yet, no indication that WOFF will be the standard transport wrapper for sfnt
    fonts in the future. Tell me, Stephen, in what ways is the result to be had from
    WOFF superior to that of EOT? Tell me, please.\r\nAn email and blog post campaign
    expressing \"support\" for WOFF was launched as a stall tactic to provide some
    kind of plausible and defensible cover for delaying licensing for web use outside
    of hosted services. That's where we're at.\r\nThis has been made quite clear on
    this very forum.\r\nI'm just calling it the way it is, Stephen.\r\nI don't want
    *you* pissing on my leg and telling me it's raining, either.\r\nCut the crap,
    I'm tired of hearing it. (And I say this with the greatest respect.)\r\n\r\nThere
    is now cross-browser support for @font-face in all the major browsers today using
    TTF, OTF, and EOT.\r\nIf you don't want to play on the web, just say so. It's
    OK. But people aren't idiots, and as soon as they get around to checking out the
    facts they will know something is amiss. What you say just doesn't add up and
    people will figure out what's up.\r\n\r\nSorry for going OT but enough is enough.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-12 13:13:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>And outside of Firefox - whose own Jonathan Kew was one of the
    co-creators of WOFF - there is, as yet, no indication that WOFF will be the standard
    transport wrapper for sfnt fonts in the future.</em>\r\n\r\nAt worst, that's a
    lie, at best, misleading. :)\r\n\r\nIf -- and I recognise that it is if, not when
    -- a W3C working group on web fonts is convened according to the draft charter,
    \u2018The conformance requirement will be that WOFF must be supported and other
    formats may be supported.\u2019 [<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010JanMar/0026.html\">Chris
    Lilley, W3C</a>] I'm not suggesting that this implies that WOFF will necessarily
    be the standard transport wrapper for web fonts, but that it is disingenuous to
    suggest that Firefox provides the <em>only</em> indication that this will be the
    case.\r\n\r\n<em>There is now cross-browser support for @font-face in all the
    major browsers today using TTF, OTF, and EOT.</em>\r\n\r\nYou have a different
    concept of cross-browser support than most font developers, I think. That's like
    saying there was cross-platform font support c.1989 with Windows Type 1 PS fonts
    and Mac Type 1 PS fonts, despite the fact that these were actually entirely different,
    incompatible file structures. Serving different formats to different browsers
    is not what I call cross-browser support; it's multi-browser support, sure, but
    not cross-browser support.\r\n\r\nStop dumping on the font makers, Rich. If the
    non-IE browsers gave any indication at all of supporting an EOT-compatible format,
    font makers would follow that lead. As it is, those browser makers have made it
    very clear that they are not interested in CWT, whereas Microsoft are making it
    pretty clear that they are interested in WOFF.\r\n\r\nYou might legitimately berate
    font makers for lacking your sense of urgency about any of this, but perhaps if
    the web without web fonts were somehow not working it would be easier to get excited
    about what promises to be a lot of bad typography. Pass me a Verdana."
  created: '2010-03-12 18:32:15'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: I honestly don't get the excitement over WOFF. I can convert it to a desktop
    font easily. Its greatest strength is that it zip compresses the font. What does
    a little meta-data though do in real life? Just asking...
  created: '2010-03-12 20:54:07'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Rich, I'm with John. I'm perplexed by the tone of your last post, and it's
    misleading. As John said, the Fonts Working Group charter is a strong indication
    that WOFF is a <em>fait accompli.</em> And there simply isn't cross-browser support
    for @font-face -- in that there is no possible way to use it in a web page, by
    itself, and have complete interoperability among the major browsers.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    honestly don't get the excitement over WOFF. I can convert it to a desktop font
    easily. Its greatest strength is that it zip compresses the font. What does a
    little meta-data though do in real life?</cite>\r\n\r\nIMO, the best thing WOFF
    has going for it is that it's not a desktop format (yet). It gives foundries a
    legal foundation to prevent or prosecute abuse. The source of the \"excitement\"
    about it is likely that it is the best chance of having an interoperable font
    format to use with @font-face.\r\n\r\n(Yes, WOFF is not a \"format\", but that
    word is a reasonable stand-in for most people.)"
  created: '2010-03-12 22:07:59'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john hudson\r\n\r\nRe: future support of WOFF - \r\n<em> disingenuous to
    suggest that Firefox provides the only indication that this will be the case.</em>\r\nDidn't
    say that Firefox's support is the only indication. But there are counter-indications.
    Ralf Herrmann has done some looking into this and has reported that no other major
    browser maker is currently considering WOFF support.\r\nIf you think there is
    some urgency on the part of browser makers who already support TTF/OTF and in
    some cases SVG - why would there be? Do you think WOFF will be supported in IE9?
    If it isn't, that pushes ubiquitous WOFF support ten years down the road.\r\nIf
    the current draft charter is adopted, now, that would be a strong indication -
    a done deal, really, and ultimately all browsers would end up supporting it. But
    when? And how long will it take those browsers to propagate? It will take the
    working group a year just to make the recommendation.\r\nBut all of this is irrelevant.
    So what?\r\nWhat will have changed that would matter to me or any web developer
    today or for the foreseeable future?\r\n\r\n<em>Stop dumping on the font makers,
    Rich.</em>\r\nIf that's how you wish to paint me, that's your call. If you truly
    see me that way, I guess I'll have to live with it. Have I ever \"dumped\" on
    you? Or Christopher? Or Thomas Phinney? Or many, many others that I have crossed
    swords with here? Nothing I've ever said or done rates that statement. These are
    highly emotional times, and if you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen.\r\nBut
    I'm tired of being lied to, and I'm tired of staying silent. Coles has to be lying
    because he can't be so stupid as to actually believe what he is saying. It's like
    saying toy manufacturers should gear their Christmas production to the kind of
    wrapping paper people will be using. It's preposterous. It's a talking point,
    pure and simple. Sorry.\r\n(I do understand your intense empathy, though. It's
    an admirable quality, but in this case I feel it's misplaced. If Coles can't defend
    his own position maybe he should just keep quiet.)\r\nIf my tone seems to you
    out of line, sorry, but I'm tired of this BS about WOFF being a pivotal, critical,
    enabling technology that simply must be in place before things can proceed further.\r\nExcept
    in Firefox 3.6, it enables nothing but sloth, delay and, it would seem,  misrepresentation.\r\nIf
    you or anybody else doesn't want to sell fonts for use on the web, for the umpteenth
    time: it's perfectly OK with me. I do not mind one single bit. Your fonts, your
    choice.\r\n\r\n@christopher\r\n\r\n<em>As John said, the Fonts Working Group charter
    is a strong indication that WOFF is a fait accompli.</em>\r\nIt isn't approved
    yet. But again, so what? Converting an TTF or an OTF is still a simple after-step.
    It's basically a zip file, for heavens sake. A smart zip file geared towards font
    data but the same is true for EOT and we already have that in 60%+ of all the
    browsers out there.\r\n\r\ngotta go - but since the topic of Cufon has been totally
    ripped to shreds I'll come back and clarify \"cross-browser\". "
  created: '2010-03-13 02:02:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Didn't say that Firefox's support is the only indication.</em>\r\n\r\n???\r\n\r\nPreviously:
    <em>And outside of Firefox \u2026 there is, as yet, no indication that WOFF will
    be the standard transport wrapper for sfnt fonts in the future.</em> [My emphasis.]\r\n\r\nSorry
    to be such a close reader, but I don't know any other way to make sense of what
    people write.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-13 04:15:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If my tone seems to you out of line, sorry, but I'm tired of this BS
    about WOFF being a pivotal, critical, enabling technology that simply must be
    in place before things can proceed further.</em>\r\n\r\nIs anyone saying that
    WOFF must be in place before things can proceed further? What I hear people saying
    -- what I've also said myself -- is that WOFF seems to offer the best possibility
    of true cross-browser compatibility, based on what the browser makers are saying
    and doing. In other words, its the format we can reasonably expect to be supported
    in most if not all future browsers, and that's the kind of cross-browser compatibility
    we want. Perhaps this seems strange to you, but you didn't develop fonts through
    the pre-OpenType period when every format and platform required different binaries,
    a situation I think many font makers would like to avoid in web fonts. Sure, the
    actual making of different wrappers deliverables is relatively simple, but multiple
    delivery formats means multiple customer support scenarios. This is not to say
    that we won't suck it up in the short-term, making both WOFF and EOT-compatible
    fonts as customers request (which is, of course, exactly what FontShop are doing,
    so I'm not sure why you're beating up on Stewf). The point about WOFF is that
    it gives both font makers and browser makers a common goal to steer towards, and
    that is a Good Thing, much to be preferred to everyone running in different directions
    for years to come."
  created: '2010-03-13 04:29:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>You have a different concept of cross-browser support than most font
    developers, I think.</em>\r\n\r\nAfter a night's sleep this seems like more paint.
    Fink just doesn't have it right, poor fellow. \r\nLook, let's skip it because
    over the next eight weeks exactly what level of interoperability exists and what
    font designers need to provide to support @font-face cross-browser, as the implementations
    exists will be crystal clear.\r\n\r\n<em>Is anyone saying that WOFF must be in
    place before things can proceed further?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, what's been said by some
    is that WOFF *must* be in place before *they* will proceed further. Yes they are.
    And what WOFF actually is, is being misrepresented.\r\n\r\nThe history:\r\nWOFF
    came about because the retail font industry put up a stink about raw TTF/OTF files,
    turned to EOT, talks fell through on EOT. A wrapper similar in effect to EOT was
    designed that ultimately was named WOFF. The Firefox guys turned their back on
    EOT, and decided to implement WOFF as an alternative. We can consult the complete
    W3C fonts mailing list to see if that's an accurate summation. I believe it is.\r\nWOFF
    had nothing to do with cross-browser compatibility.\r\n\r\nWe already have that:\r\n\r\n@font-face{\r\nfont-family:'somefont';\r\nsrc:
    url(somefont.eot);\r\nsrc: url(somefont.eot);url(somefont.ttf);\r\n}\r\n\r\nWill
    deliver exactly the same font to Firefox, Chrome, Opera, Safari, IE 6, 7, 8 and,
    if the CSS3 spec is any guide, IE9 as well. You may not want to believe it, but
    it's so.\r\nIf OTFs remain problematical for the foreseeable future, that's just
    a fact. If type designers want to ignore it. OK by me. But it's the way it is
    and it has nothing to do with WOFF. It has to do with Windows and Internet Explorer.\r\n\r\nRE:
    Providing EOT and WOFF files:\r\n<em>(which is, of course, exactly what FontShop
    are doing, so I'm not sure why you're beating up on Stewf).</em>\r\n\r\nResponded
    to you on this here:http://typophile.com/node/66933?page=1#comment-401176\r\n
    \r\nLastly, and keeping with this, I think it's Stephen Coles turn to explain
    what he meant by:\r\n<em>If I was a type maker planning for the future I would
    steer my font production resources to a format that is bound to be the standard
    of the future. That format is WOFF.</em>\r\nWhat *did* you mean, Stephen?\r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-13 19:17:51'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Don't know whether or not to believe it, but have it on good authority that
    WOFF may become an installable format for Mac. Appears to be easier to implement
    system-wide than in-browser...\r\n\r\nStill curious about Cufon, but I think this
    thread is too far gone."
  created: '2010-03-13 20:01:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, your potted history is mostly correct. The part I take issue with is
    the characterisation that the \u2018retail font industry\u2019 first \u2018turned
    to EOT\u2019 before \u2018talks fell through\u2019 on that format. It would be
    easy to come to that view based on the W3C list discussion, but of course that
    wasn't the only discussion taking place at the time. The number of font vendors
    actively supporting an EOT-compatible solution was fairly small, and the .webfont
    spec development that became WOFF long preceded the evident failure of \u2018EOT-Lite\u2019
    to gain traction. Indeed, one could say that by providing a broadly acceptable
    alternative to EOT-Lite, the introduction of .webfont/WOFF provided the means
    by which the non-IE browsers, especially FireFox, could easily resist pressure
    to implement an EOT-compatible solution. As you know, I was one of the relatively
    few font makers vocally supporting an EOT-compatible option, and I don't think
    it is the case that \u2018talks fell through on EOT\u2019 but that the talks came
    to <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010JanMar/0032.html\">a
    different result than the one you wanted</a>.\r\n\r\n<em>.... Will deliver exactly
    the same font to Firefox, Chrome, Opera, Safari, IE 6, 7, 8 and, if the CSS3 spec
    is any guide, IE9 as well. You may not want to believe it, but it's so.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    never denied that it is so. Yes, if you serve two different files to different
    browsers, one of which is a naked desktop font, then you can get the same typeface
    displayed on all those different browsers. And two different files is better than,
    say, five different files, but since one of those files is something that most
    commercial font vendors are not licensing for web serving and are not going to
    license for web serving, this hardly seems to me like a solution. If you want,
    you can make the case that serving multiple file types constitutes some kind of
    cross-browser compatibility -- and I could even accept that case with the caveat
    that it isn't <em>ideal</em> cross-browser compatibility --, but if web font licenses
    won't permit one half of that compatibility then it's de facto incompatible.\r\n\r\nSo
    let's leave IE and EOT aside for a moment. As you do not tire of pointing out
    -- and nor should you --, this is something that already works and will continue
    to work. WOFF is what is needed on the non-IE browsers (which thankfully have
    faster and more widespread upgrade cycles than IE). WOFF is where the browser
    makers who refuse to support EOT and the font makers who refuse to license naked
    desktop fonts for the web can come together."
  created: '2010-03-13 20:08:38'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> *Still curious about Cufon...*\r\n\r\nYou may want to skim through this
    thread - http://typophile.com/node/66933"
  created: '2010-03-13 21:55:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n<em>but if web font licenses won't permit one half of
    that compatibility then it's de facto incompatible.</em>\r\nYou are redefining
    \"compatible\" to mean what's convenient for you to have it mean. Plus, your redefinition
    rests on a faulty assumption: that the only fonts that matter are the \"retail\"
    fonts that are currently unlicensed for web use.\r\nI can only speak for myself
    but I, personally, don't want to use the fonts that I think you have in mind -
    these fonts that are \"incompatible by license\". Even if support for WOFF were
    universal, I have absolutely no reason to believe they would be made available
    on terms that I could or would accept. The divides are very great. Plus, I've
    bought enough of them to know that they fall about as far short of looking good
    on screen as the freely licensed fonts. Sometimes moreso.\r\nI might not have
    any choice but to accept an unfavorable EULA when I need a program like Word or
    Photoshop - I'll have to wait for changes in the legal system for that - but that's
    not the case with fonts.\r\nThere are thousands of freely licensed fonts available.
    And there are now font designers who are offering licenses on terms that make
    sense for web designers.\r\nFor now, I will use what I can and what I can use
    will improve and there will be a greater variety over time.\r\nThe six to ten
    years that the \"Wait For WOFF\" philosophy entails is plenty of time to make
    the fonts you have in mind today, irrelevant. If you see any other outcome, well,
    just remember that the human capacity for self-delusion is truly infinite. In
    retrospect, I can't believe some of the stuff I was absolutely convinced would
    happen despite a huge amount of evidence indicating the opposite, right in front
    of my face.\r\n\r\n<em>WOFF is where the browser makers who refuse to support
    EOT and the font makers who refuse to license naked desktop fonts for the web
    can come together.</em>\r\nOnce again - come together about what? What are the
    price points? What are the terms? \r\nIt's so far down the road, who cares?\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 01:13:07'
- author:
    name: John Nagle
  body: "On April 10, 2010, Microsoft decided to support WOFF, and it will be in IE
    9.\r\n\r\nRight now, @font-face works in just about all current browsers. It works
    in IE back to at least IE 6. It works in Firefox 3.6, Opera, Chrome, and Safari.
    \ It works on the iPad. It works in obscure browsers like SeaMonkey and Avant.
    \  If you provide fonts in WOFF, EOT, SVG, and TrueType, and the few lines of
    CSS needed to link to all the font source files, it just works.\r\n\r\nMake up
    a page with all four file formats available (fontsquirrel.com has a generator
    for all the formats if necessary) and run it through a multiple-browser viewer
    (http://browsershots.org) to check this for yourself.  (Don't ask for too many
    browsers at once; there's a daily quota for free use.)\r\n\r\nYes, it doesn't
    work in a few browsers - Iceape, Epiphany, Konquerer, Seamonkey, Netscape, and
    Kazehakase.  You got a problem with that?"
  created: '2010-05-16 08:02:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@john nagle\r\n\r\n>On April 10, 2010, Microsoft decided to support WOFF,
    and it will be in IE 9.\r\n\r\nThis seems to be information that only you possess.
    Where did you read or hear it?\r\n\r\nInformation on the IE Blog, which is usually
    the authoritative source for information like this has been conspicuously noncommital
    about WOFF in IE9. There could be many reasons why they might want to postpone
    it to IE 10.\r\nIn addition, I pressed both Simon Daniels and Sylvain Galineau
    of Microsoft on the issue and got nothin', nada, bubkis.\r\n\r\nSo how do you
    know? (BTW - this was incorrectly reported in Wikipedia based on the same IE Blog
    post I alluded to earlier.)\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-05-17 03:22:00'
date: '2010-03-11 19:14:44'
node_type: forum
title: Cufon vs. WOFF

---
