---
author:
  name: TypeSETit
  picture: 119272
body: "I'm completing the font I've been working on, and I want to determine which
  nationalities will be able to use the font according to the characters represented
  in the font. Users in most of the European countries will have access to the characters
  they would need if they use the font. \r\n\r\nHowever, I discovered that the Swiss
  have four languages, but only the least used (about .5% of the population) uses
  the Romansh alphabet. My question, if anyone here knows the answer, is... \r\n\r\nAre
  there diacritics, or digraphs exclusive to the Romansh alphabet that do not appear
  in other encoding formats? \r\n\r\nFor example, I have added digraphs such as D\u017E
  (which is Polish I believe) to my font, but I can find no information that tells
  me there are unique digraphs or characters to the Romansh language. \r\n\r\nWindows
  Standard (Code Page 1252) alphabet includes characters for the following languages:\r\nAlbanian,
  Breton, Catalan, Danish, Dutch, English, Faroese, Finnish, French, Gaelic, German,
  Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish\r\n\r\nI can
  not find a character code format (is that what it's called) for the Swiss Language
  of Romansh. \r\n\r\nCan anyone help? I would like to be able to say that the font
  is compatible with the Swiss Languages, but without knowing for sure, I am reluctant.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nRob"
comments:
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Neither <cite>The World\u2019s Writing Systems</cite> nor <a href=\"http://www.ethnologue.com/show_language.asp?code=roh\"
    title=\"roh\">Ethnologue</a> tells me anything. I would not expect highly unusual
    characters. \r\n\r\nOne can feel dirty doing this, but the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romansh_language\">Wikipedia
    entry</a> on Romansch shows no accented letters at all. You could be more thorough
    by just downloading the entire <a href=\"http://rm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pagina_principala\"
    title=\"rm.wikipedia.org\">Romansch Wikipedia</a> and sorting all the characters
    (though this will be polluted by foreign-language entries).\r\n\r\nThe pretty
    amazing <a href=\"http://www.liarumantscha.ch/data/media/pdf/facts_figures/facts_figures_english.pdf\"
    title=\"PDF\">\u201CRomansch: Facts & Figures\u201D\_(PDF)</a> can tell you a
    lot about this and other European minority languages.\r\n\r\nAlso, ask the often
    unsympathetic Michael Everson."
  created: '2010-03-12 05:10:37'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "The alphabet chart in <em>Mia affonza. Fibla sursilvana</em>, a Romansch
    primer published by the Administraziun cantunala da mieds d\u2019instrucziun in
    Cuera [Chur] doesn\u2019t show any diacritics or digraphs. Quite the contrary,
    the spelling does without k, w and y.\r\nNote however that this primer is in Sursilvan,
    which is just one dialect within the Romansh family. The book was published in
    1965, before the Romansh language was standardized.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fibla-sursilvana_6150.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-12 08:11:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: Being part of the other 99.5% of the swiss population, i know embarrassingly
    little about the language. In addition to Rumantsch Grischun, its standardised
    version, several other variants are being used. A quick and dirty research revealed
    a diverting mixture of german, french and italian diacritics, but nothing beyond
    that.
  created: '2010-03-12 08:41:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Same here. I don't speak Rumantsch (although understanding it is easy with
    a knowledge of German and French), but whenever I've come across the language
    (which does happen in Switzerland), I've never seen any unusual diacritics beyond
    what is required for Italian, German, and French (grave, acute, dieresis \u2013
    and a bunch of hyphens and apostrophes). \r\nThere are some language samples in
    the very nice PDF that Joe linked to. BTW, the Declaration of Human Rights is
    also available in what I presume is Rumantsch Grischun, <a href=\"http://www.ohchr.org/EN/UDHR/Pages/Language.aspx?LangID=rhe\">here</a>.
    \r\nTo make 100% sure you could try emailing the Lia Rumantscha, an umbrella organization
    for all Romansh associations: http://www.liarumantscha.ch/sites/content/contact.html"
  created: '2010-03-12 11:56:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rob \u2014 While one should probably never trust any single resource on the
    Internet absolutely, this is one that I frequently consult on language/diacritic
    matters:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/index.htm\r\n\r\nThen reference
    against others, like maybe http://www.eki.ee/letter/, Wikipedia, and Ethnologue."
  created: '2010-03-12 13:13:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Following some links from Omniglot, the only accented letter that appears
    to be common in Romansh is an a with a grave accent, although Romansh texts would
    likely also include such things as German place names with umlauts. The Omniglot
    page itself notes that while there now is a "standardized" written form of Romansh,
    it is not very popular among speakers of the language... so <em>definitive</em>
    information may be hard to find.
  created: '2010-03-12 16:12:07'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "Kent, you suggested the Omniglot web site. Even there, there is no indication
    of a Swiss language and neither Romansh, nor Grischun is listed. \r\n\r\nI suppose
    it is for the .5% that Microsoft leaves Swiss out of the list of languages with
    which a font may be compatible. So, does that mean that when a Swiss citizen has
    a need for a font, they merely make sure that it has the diacritics and/or digraphs
    of French, German and Italian? \r\n\r\nDan,\r\nThere doesn't appear to be an indication
    that any font is compatible for use by the Swiss. When you or other Swiss folks
    purchase a font, and you need to know you'll be able to use it, do you simply
    make sure it has the Western encoding (1252)? If so, do those of the other .5%
    do the same? \r\n\r\nBottom line, \r\nWhy can't I put a little Swiss flag next
    to my font to show that people from Switzerland can use the font?  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-12 17:31:27'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "And while we're on the subject, I had a thought. \r\n\r\nIs Romansch similar
    to a dialect of another language? I don't speak French, but is not Cajun considered
    almost a separate language from French?\r\n\r\nAt what point does a dialect or
    derivative of a base language become a separate language? Who decides (maybe Microsoft--yikes)?
    It's almost biological classifications:  \r\n\r\nKingdom, Phylum, Class, Order,
    Family, Genus, Species.\r\n\r\nLatin, French, Acadian, Creole, American, Louisiana,
    New Orleans\r\n\r\nJust a thought."
  created: '2010-03-12 17:38:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Kent, you suggested the Omniglot web site. Even there, there is no indication
    of a Swiss language and neither Romansh, nor Grischun is listed. </em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/romansh.htm"
  created: '2010-03-12 18:04:18'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Is Romansch similar to a dialect of another language? I don't speak
    French, but is not Cajun considered almost a separate language from French?</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    question. Romansch is quite closely related to Ladin, which is spoken by about
    30,000 speakers in Northern Italy (Romansh itself has a comparable number of speakers).\r\n\r\nLinguists
    will tell you that Ladin, like Romansch, is a language in its own right, and will
    place the two (along with a number of other languages spoken in Italy) in a subdivision
    of the Romance languages that includes French and Catalan but not Italian. However,
    all of the speakers of Ladin are in Italy, and it is ultimately related to Italian,
    as are all Romance languages. So in popular consciousness Ladin will be incorrectly
    considered an Italian dialect.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, Romansch was granted the status
    of an official language of Switzerland, presumably so the Swiss could have their
    own distinct official language even if only 0.5% of the population spoke it. So
    everyone thinks of it as a language separate from Italian, which is also one of
    the Swiss official languages.\r\n\r\nNot surprisingly, \u2018dialect\u2019 classification
    does not correspond well to political borders . For example, there are some \u2018German
    dialects\u2019 which are actually languages that are more closely related to Dutch
    than to Standard German.\r\n\r\nCajun French is still considered a French dialect.
    It is not unusual for dialects of the same language to be so different as to be
    mutually unintelligible, but that doesn't automatically lead to them being considered
    separate languages. There are difficulties with this criterion; there are plenty
    of instances where dialect A is intelligible with dialect B and dialect B with
    dialect C, but dialect A is not intelligible with dialect C.\r\n\r\nSo a dialect
    acquiring the status of a separate language is sometimes quite arbitrary. Afrikaans
    is now considered a separate language, but it used to be considered a Dutch dialect.\r\n\r\nClassifying
    languages has been the domain of linguists for a long time, well before Microsoft
    came into existence. :)\r\n\r\nFor Romansch the classification goes (according
    to Wikipedia):\r\nIndo-European, Italic, Romance, Italo-Western Romance, Western
    Romance, Gallo-Iberian, Gallo-Romance, Gallo-Rhaetian, Rhaetian, Romansch\r\n\r\nFor
    comparison, Ladin is a Rhaetian language, French and Catalan are Gallo-Romance
    languages (but not Gallo-Rhaetian), Spanish and Portuguese are Gallo-Iberian languages
    (but not Gallo-Romance), and Italian is an Italo-Western Romance language (but
    not Western Romance)."
  created: '2010-03-12 18:45:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-12 19:37:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_language_is_a_dialect_with_an_army_and_navy"><em>A
    language is a dialect with an army and navy.</em></a>
  created: '2010-03-12 19:46:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: and an income tax :-)
  created: '2010-03-12 19:47:23'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: Although in all fairness there was never any chance whatsoever of something
    truly weird showing up in this language, like barred H or H hat or whatever.
  created: '2010-03-12 19:48:18'
- author:
    name: Dan Petter
    picture: 115186
  body: "<cite>There doesn't appear to be an indication that any font is compatible
    for use by the Swiss. When you or other Swiss folks purchase a font, and you need
    to know you'll be able to use it, do you simply make sure it has the Western encoding
    (1252)?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere's no such indication because nobody bothers.\r\n\r\nThe
    three <em>written</em> languages in Switzerland besides Rumantsch Grischun are
    Standard German, French and Italian \u2013 with numerous diverging rules, aberrant
    spelling and distinctive expressions, but no additional characters.\r\n\r\nI never
    ever had a language-related issue with any professional font.\r\n\r\nThe <em>spoken</em>
    languages and dialects on the other hand do deviate considerably. But we don't
    need fonts for those, do we?"
  created: '2010-03-12 20:15:19'
- author:
    name: vincent_morley
    picture: 109590
  body: "As far as I know, the only diacritic mark used in Rumantsch is the grave
    accent. For example, it distinguishes '\xE8' meaning 'is' from 'e' meaning 'and',
    and '\xE8n' meaning 'are' from 'en' meaning 'in'. The 'a grave' (\xE0) is also
    used."
  created: '2010-03-12 22:14:34'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "As long as we are talking about written languages in Switzerland, we could
    also consider the dialects actually used in daily life by the German speakers
    of Switzerland, which are Alemannic German dialects collectively termed Swiss
    German. Though they are considered German dialects, they differ so much from Standard
    German that German speakers from other countries will find them impossible to
    understand unless they speak an Alemannic dialect themselves.\r\n\r\nThe vast
    majority of German literature in Switzerland is in Standard German, but Swiss
    German has also been written down through the ages. The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss_illustrated_chronicles|Swiss
    Chronicles]] of the 15th and 16th centuries and Swiss Reformation leader Huldrych
    Zwingli's translation of the Bible were in Swiss German dialects. Martin Luther's
    variety of German subsequently took over as the standard literary dialect in the
    German speaking world, but even today you will sometimes see Swiss German written
    down, e.g. for song lyrics. You can also take a look at the [[http://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Houptsyte|High
    Alemannic Wikipedia]].\r\n\r\nThere is no official system for writing down Swiss
    German, which means that people will only use the letters and diacritics that
    are accessible from the keyboards common in Switzerland. That said, it appears
    that an attempt at a standardized orthography was developed by Eugen Dieth (I
    just found out about it now; it's the first time I've heard any of this). His
    <em>Schwyzert\xFCtschi Dial\xE4ktschrift</em> (1938) originally recommended the
    use of letters such as \u0283, \u01DC, and \xF6\u0300, and a subscript n to indicate
    nasalization. A 1986 revision of the system replaced \u0283 with sch and the subscript
    n with the the tilde as in \xE3\xE3 and \u0169. There is a [[http://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dieth-Schreibung|Wikipedia
    article]] about this written in Swiss German with the revised Dieth orthography.\r\n\r\nFrankly,
    I doubt it is common for Swiss German to be written following this orthography.
    Most Swiss German speakers are probably not familiar with it. But it might be
    a good idea anyway to include support for \u01DC and \xF6\u0300 at least for fonts
    targeting the Swiss (and make sure you have the grave and tilde accents with the
    common vowels)."
  created: '2010-03-13 09:56:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow \u2013 I'm no linguist, but I've been speaking Swiss German all my life
    and this is the first time I've heard about Dieth's system (or about a u-dieresis-grave
    or o-dieresis-grave used for Swiss German, and not the tilde either). So from
    a \xABuser's\xBB perspective I can say no, it's not commonly used. Maybe in specialized
    circles, that I wouldn't know.\r\n\r\nIt is rather uncommon for Swiss German to
    be written down. Of course the examples you cite, Brian, do exist; but we largely
    think of Swiss German as a spoken language, and most Swiss-German speakers I know
    (including myself) will not be able to <em>read</em> the language very well except
    out loud \u2013 certainly partly due to lack of familiarity/practice and partly
    due to the lack of a common orthography. Some people write emails or text messages
    in Swiss German; but writing in Swiss German per se has a strong \xABoral\xBB
    flavor: It tends to feel like something that wasn't originally intended to be
    written down but told orally, something more spontaneous, less formal, and of
    course, more localized. \r\n\r\nIt's not like Swiss German is taught at schools,
    it's what people just speak, out in the street. (School language in the German-speaking
    areas of Switzerland is High German.) Also, Swiss German is also far from being
    a standardized language. It's sort of a conglomerate of sometimes vastly different
    dialects \u2013 I personally speak Basel German and can have serious problems
    understanding the \xABmountain people\xBB e.g. from the Valais (in the South-West)
    or Graub\xFCnden (in the East). That, to me, makes the idea of a standardized
    orthography for Swiss German (or all Alemannic dialects) somewhat dubitable to
    begin with. I can read that Wikipedia, but it doesn't \xABfeel\xBB like \xABmy\xBB
    language, if that makes any sense.\r\n\r\nSo with this background, from the perspective
    of a speaker of Swiss German, I strongly believe that any attempt at an orthography
    for Swiss German should not depend on any diacritics or special characters not
    commonly available, because those would just never be used anyway. Perhaps more
    importantly, I can't recall seeing any special characters used in written Swiss
    German in \xABreal life\xBB, or myself missing any particular characters from
    the fonts I use in a specifically Swiss context; as long as they include diacritics
    for German, French, and Italian, plus maybe floating/combining acutes and graves
    to be on the safe side, it should totally be fine. I wouldn't really see a reason
    to include the special characters that Dieth proposed in any fonts I make."
  created: '2010-03-13 13:20:14'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Thanks for that perspective, Nina. Yes, it should really be stressed that
    Swiss German is rarely written down except in specialist contexts where you want
    to convey the form that is actually spoken. Sort of like no one writes in the
    Yorkshire dialect of English, except for documentary purposes or maybe to add
    local colour in a novel. As I said, the Dieth orthography is completely new to
    me as well, I only came across in doing some quick research for this thread (not
    that I am all that familiar with Swiss German; I only lived in the French-speaking
    part of Switzerland when I was young).\r\n\r\nSo any usage of the Dieth orthography
    will probably be in highly specialized, academic contexts; ordinary Swiss German
    speakers, on the rare occasions where they might decide to record something in
    Swiss German, would not use any of these rare letters, and in any case would record
    their own specific dialect of Swiss German and not any standardized form.\r\n\r\nI
    said it might be a good idea to add those letters for a Swiss audience since there
    are only two of them. But then I guess I wouldn't necessary suggest one add all
    the letters necessary for supporting all the indigenous languages for font targeting
    a US audience, for example, so I concede your point."
  created: '2010-03-13 13:32:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Why can't I put a little Swiss flag next to my font to show that people
    from Switzerland can use the font?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause flags are a very bad
    way to represent languages.\r\nWhat about the opposite case: are you going to
    put the flag of every English speaking country next to your fonts which support
    English orthography?"
  created: '2010-03-13 18:37:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>School language in the German-speaking areas of Switzerland is High German.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    written without \xDF, yes?"
  created: '2010-03-13 19:38:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "True \u2013 the orthography of High German as written in Switzerland differs
    from the original German most notably in our lack of \xDF. There are also some
    diverging typographical conventions BTW, for instance we use guillemets \xABthis
    way round\xBB while Germans use them \xBBthe other way round\xAB. But all of this
    is rather blurred for example in books, where German practices (mostly) dominate."
  created: '2010-03-13 20:16:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It may be that \"a language is a dialect with an army and a navy\".\r\n\r\nI
    do not accept the converse, and therefore conclude that Southern Min and Cantonese
    are dialects of Chinese. Since they are not mutually intelligible with Mandarin,
    from a linguistic point of view, they are separate languages, although related.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    Spanish and Portuguese are mutually intelligible, although it is possible, with
    careful choice of vocabulary or grammatical forms, to compose Portuguese sentences
    which are not comprehensible to a Spanish speaker. While many would defend Cantonese
    and Mandarin as two different languages, and refuse to accept that \"a dialect
    is a language without an army and a navy\", few would deny the statement in its
    original form and attempt to claim that Portuguese is a dialect of Spanish."
  created: '2010-03-15 13:35:17'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Oh boy. This kind of discussion is bound to generate a lot of heat and lead
    nowhere because no one agrees on the definitions while the dialect vs language
    distinction is heavily politicized. Human languages didn't develop to produce
    easily classifiable, discrete units. Even \u2018mutual intelligibility\u2019 is
    a very slippery criterion. For what it's worth, Cantonese and Southern Min are
    often called \u2018dialects\u2019 just because that is the traditional translation
    of the Chinese term <em>fangyan</em> (\u2018regional speech\u2019), which doesn't
    correspond neatly to the usual English definitions of \u2018dialect\u2019.\r\n\r\nHere
    we need only concern ourselves with how the different speech varieties are <em>written</em>
    using different orthographies, not whether to label them \u2018languages\u2019
    or \u2018dialects\u2019."
  created: '2010-03-15 14:27:28'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ">> School language in the German-speaking areas of Switzerland is High German.\r\n\r\n>
    But written without \xDF, yes?\r\n\r\nJohn, I suspect that the Swiss definition
    and the German definition of \"High German\" are probably slightly different.
    My colleagues tell me \u2013 jokingly, at least most of the time \u2013 that proper
    High German is only that which is spoken (and written?) in Hannover. I suspect
    that Hannovarian is not the Swiss education system's definition of high-anything
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-15 16:44:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John (quadibloc), I think you are missing the point of the famous \u2018army
    and navy\u2019 statement, which is not intended as a serious criterion but to
    point out the very politicisation of the language/dialect distinction to which
    Brian refers."
  created: '2010-03-15 17:44:47'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "What they probably mean colloquially by \"High German\" is Standard German,
    and this is going to be slightly different between the German-speaking countries,
    just like Standard English is going to have some slight differences in spelling
    and punctuation between different English-speaking countries.\r\n\r\nConfusingly,
    when linguists refer to \"High German\", they probably mean a broad group of Germanic
    languages; the \"high\" refers to these languages being spoken mostly in the upland
    areas of Central and Southern Germany, Switzerland, and Austria, as opposed to
    \"Low German\" or \"Low Saxon\" which is spoken in the low coastal regions. Standard
    German is High German in this broad sense, but doubly confusingly, so is Swiss
    German."
  created: '2010-03-15 17:46:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think you are missing the point of the famous \u2018army and navy\u2019
    statement, which is not intended as a serious criterion but to point out the very
    politicisation of the language/dialect distinction to which Brian refers.\"\r\n\r\nI
    get it, John. It seemed obvious and quite humorous to me. Linguists can debate
    about the \"proper\" definition but might makes right to politicians :-)"
  created: '2010-03-15 17:57:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Confusingly, when linguists refer to \"High German\", they probably
    mean a broad group of Germanic languages</cite>\r\n\r\nWouldn\u2019t that be \u2018Upper
    German\u2019 [oberdeutsch]?"
  created: '2010-03-15 17:59:08'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Wouldn\u2019t that be \u2018Upper German\u2019 [oberdeutsch]?</cite>\r\n\r\nUpper
    German (Oberdeutsch) and Central German (Mitteldeutsch) are actually two subdivisions
    of High German (Hochdeutsch) in the sense used by linguists.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-15 18:02:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Harvey
  body: "According to M. Everson\u2019s \u201CAlphabets of Europe\u201D Romansch uses:
    \xE0 \xE8 \xE9 \xEC \xEE \xF2 \xF9. \r\nhttp://www.evertype.com/alphabets/romansch.pdf"
  created: '2010-03-15 18:14:20'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Thanks, Brian. Interesting.
  created: '2010-03-15 18:32:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Aw, sorry bout the \"High German\" confusion, I wasn't aware of the different
    terms. Yes, I just meant Standard German, which we call \"High German\" (Hochdeutsch).\r\nBTW,
    note that e.g. InDesign has different dictionaries for \"German (Swiss)\" and
    just German. That of course doesn't refer to Swiss German, but rather Standard
    German as used in Switzerland. And that is definitely the same language, minus
    some regionally differing vocabulary, and some spelling/typographic conventions."
  created: '2010-03-15 22:10:05'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> Confusingly, when linguists refer to \"High German\", they probably
    mean a broad group of Germanic languages; the \"high\" refers to these languages
    being spoken mostly in the upland areas of Central and Southern Germany, Switzerland,
    and Austria, as opposed to \"Low German\" or \"Low Saxon\" which is spoken in
    the low coastal regions. Standard German is High German in this broad sense, but
    doubly confusingly, so is Swiss German. </cite>\r\n\r\nThis is a good illustration
    of the Army-and-Navy concept.\r\n\r\nThe dialects in Germany referred to as 'Low
    German' are (from a phylogenetic standpoint) more closely related to Dutch and
    English than they are to the 'High German' dialects, which are in turn more closely
    related to Yiddish than they are to the Low German dialects. Yet people commonly
    consider 'Low German' and 'High German' as dialects of a language which excludes
    both Dutch and Yiddish simply because they are spoken within (though not restricted
    to) a single country.\r\n\r\nFrom a purely linguistic standpoint, the distinction
    between 'language' and 'dialect' is fairly meaningless. Arguments about this type
    of thing can become rather vehement between peoples and politicians, particularly
    in regions where new national boundries are being established, but aren't of much
    concern to linguists since the answers are entirely arbitary (the existence of
    the debates *is* of interest, but not because the questions being debated are
    actually of interest).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-15 23:19:58'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: "<em>\"...are you going to put the flag of every English speaking country
    next to your fonts / \r\nA language is a dialect with an army and navy.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    clever use of flags!  no Flag, No Language...\r\n\r\nReminds me of Eddie Izzard\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uEx5G-GOS1k]]\r\n\r\n(I
    know  I'm getting off topic, but I couldn't resist the humor)."
  created: '2010-04-04 16:32:49'
date: '2010-03-12 04:34:29'
node_type: forum
title: Swiss (Romansh) Language Compatibility

---
