---
author:
  name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
  picture: 112329
body: "Starting from questions in [[http://typophile.com/node/68302|this thread]]
  I\u2019d like to continue this issue seperately.\r\n\r\n<cite> 1\u201CIn these days,
  I think one can reasonably expect Latin fonts of a certain kind supporting all Latin-related
  languages. Why shouldn\u2019t it?\u201D\r\n\r\n2\u201CCan you clarify what you mean
  by 'of a certain kind'?\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nI mean fonts which obviously come and
  appear as being text fonts, typefaces for setting body text.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026
  where exactly (\u2026) to get information about the necessary glyph repetoire?</cite>\r\n\r\n*That*
  is the point. I think: nowhere. For myself, I know nothing of relying on my own
  research. I started whith default codepages. Then I took the impressive UDHR-in-Unicode
  text samples for testing the coverage of my fonts. Not an absolutely safe tester,
  but quite a useful one.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 especially those with emerging orthographies
  would be IMHO very difficult.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes of course they are. You can\u2019t
  set up a fixed schedule for an orthography still evolving. But such cases hardly
  matter here, i.m.h.o.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 but with ~4000 languages spoken on earth,
  no designer is going to be able </cite>\r\n\r\nSlowly, slowly. We talked about the
  field of Latin-written languages. After all, that field is quite comfortably mapped,
  with few risk of omitting essentials.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 a perfectly reasonable
  position to take, but it still excludes a great many latin-based languages. My point
  is simply that designers must make some sort of decision of this type, and that
  decision will inevitably exclude some language which someone else might think should
  be part of that minimum target.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, it\u2019s up to you to exclude
  or to include. It is not so difficult to set up a scheme that comprises, let\u2019s
  say, all Germanic, Romanic, Celtic, Slavonic, Baltic, Finno-Ugric, Turk languages
  alongside with some others to complete the (European) map of Latin writing. And
  it\u2019s not so tricky to decide upon wether to include or exclude the Vietnamese
  and/or African/Latin-B blocks \u2026 Maybe information about (native) American orthographies
  are more rare, but it should be possible to assemble this as well.\r\n\r\nHowever,
  what I think you are thinking about, is actually a question for a kind of standard.
  A kind which neither UC tables nor default codepages represent. So it\u2019s up
  to ourselves \u2013 a great chance (i.m.h.o.). "
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: For the most part I just trust Tiro/Fontlab and use character sets based on
    the Fontlab on Steroids character sets minus aringacute.
  created: '2010-03-15 12:30:57'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "In my view, for practical reasons, you do need to decide on a rather specific
    group of target languages and/or specialist needs, not just to determine the characters
    to cover but the appropriate forms.\r\n\r\nI might, for example, decide to make
    a Latin font specifically for an Asian Studies department at a university. This
    will mean Vietnamese as well as letters needed for major transliteration systems
    of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Sanskrit, Pali, Tibetan, etc. That is already a
    huge collection of special characters, ill supported by most fonts out there on
    the market.\r\n\r\nIn particular, the some characters will require different glyphs
    depending on the use. The preferred form of the capital Eng will be different
    depending on whether it is used for S\xE1mi or for African orthographies. The
    uk should probably be designed differently for Native American orthographies (where
    it will resemble an 8) than for transitional Romanian (where it will be confined
    to the x-height and resemble a v and an o stacked vertically). Characters used
    for the International Phonetic Alphabet will require some unusual treatment (italic
    double-storey a, a latinized beta). Theoretically, you can provide all possible
    alternates and hope language tags can be relied upon to choose the appropriate
    forms, but it's best to have a primary use in mind that you want to support by
    default.\r\n\r\nBy the way, to my mind, supporting the current Latin-based orthographies
    of all living languages of Europe already is quite a specific goal that nevertheless
    requires extensive character coverage. Thankfully, this is the portion of Latin-based
    scripts that is comfortably mapped; it also represents all the needs of 99% of
    likely users of Latin fonts. But you can't just go ahead and claim that this represents
    \"all Latin-based languages\".\r\n\r\nOne important thing to point out: Unicode
    doesn't try to encode all letter-and-diacritics combinations in used, but encodes
    them as base letter plus combining diacritics. The precomposed letters with diacritics
    with Unicode points are those inherited from earlier standards (and are thus heavily
    biased toward those used in European languages). So it would be incorrect to conclude
    that the precomposed letters in the Unicode charts represent all documented combinations."
  created: '2010-03-15 13:11:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Anyone have a working link for Fontlab on Steroids?
  created: '2010-03-15 15:23:37'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Andreas,\r\n\r\nI think our disagreement stems from the fact that in my
    original remark (\"no font can reasonably be expected to support all [Latin-based]
    languages\") I was using the word *all* in a much more literal sense than I think
    you are.\r\n\r\nTo me, supporting *all* latin-based languages would necessarily
    include not only established, national languages, but also:\r\n\r\n\u2022 minority
    languages, including those which have several competing orthographic conventions
    in use.\r\n\u2022 languages which are dead or moribund.\r\n\u2022 transcriptional
    systems used for languages written primarily in non-Latin alphabets, including
    both those in common use and the more obscure.\r\n\r\nNote also that by claiming
    that we cannot reasonably expect a font to support all of the above I am not disputing
    that this isn't a worthwhile goal. As a linguist, I am certainly in favour of
    providing the broadest language support which one can, but I don't think that
    supporting all latin-based languages is really an attainable goal; the point which
    I was making was simply that I don't think it is fair to be critical of a design
    which fails to provide support for some particular language (though omitting major
    European languages would likely be a bad marketing decision).\r\n\r\nVery few
    fonts on the market currently include obsolete characters such a yogh and wynn.
    If I were to criticize designers for this omission and they were to acquiesce
    to my demands and include such characters, I could then criticize them for omitting
    the various special characters used in Anglo-Saxon abbreviations, or the characters
    needed for pre-reform Irish, or the characters needed to transcribe Aramaic, or
    the diacritics needed to represent some language with only seven speakers remaining,
    none of whom are even literate in the language in question, &c. At some point
    a designer must declare their character set to be done, despite the knowledge
    that there are many omissions.\r\n\r\n<cite> However, what I think you are thinking
    about, is actually a question for a kind of standard. </cite>\r\n\r\nThere are
    many standards out there already. I don't see a need for establishing new ones.
    I think that the question of which minimal character one wants to adopt is a decision
    for individual designers to make.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-15 19:04:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '*Tracking*'
  created: '2010-03-15 19:28:04'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Thomas Phinney wrote up a very useful summary of Adobe's plans on this a
    couple of years ago:\r\n<a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html\">http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html</a>\r\n\r\nFrom
    my own experience, I can echo what Brian and Andr\xE9 have already said: What
    is needed depends on the intended use. I've had occasion to add precomposed dot-under
    letters for Semitic transliteration to Latin fonts before, and on one occasion
    also the denarius and sestertius signs (needed for Latin support, in the literal
    sense), but none of these are used in any present European language. On the other
    hand, I really don't expect these characters to be supported by most font designers,
    since their use is rather specialized."
  created: '2010-03-16 04:38:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Since I have been making OpenType fonts, I have included the Unicode blocks
    that cover all the present-day European Latin script languages, plus the cap German
    double S. That's quite enough characters, if one is including typographic features
    such as small caps and alternate figure styles, and several weights with italics.\r\n\r\nI
    did produce some much larger fonts, with support for Greek, Cyrillic, and some
    older languages. For instance, I included the characters from the Unicode block
    for Old English, but I don't think having merely yogh and wynn (even if in bold
    italic small caps) in an expensive commercial font makes any sense. If a foundry
    is going to the trouble of producing characters for a minority user group, then
    it also has to market to that group, or it's a waste of time, and it may be a
    waste of time anyway.\r\n\r\nWhat with Adobe and Microsoft creating free fonts
    for minority users, and educational publishers doing likewise, and members of
    the academic user groups as well...\r\n\r\nIs there a corporate branding market
    that will support commercial fonts for minority users? (Other than, say, addressing
    the needs of a corporation operating in the European Union.)"
  created: '2010-03-16 05:45:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My character sets usually  run over 800 glyphs without non-latin scripts.
    Part of this is figure sets and small caps. Drawing the line is hard for me as
    well. I try to think about the amount of work it might take and problems it might
    entail vs the number of potential buyers it may bring. I don't look at historic
    languages that are not used today because none of the fonts I have started seem
    suitable for those languages. The Latin scripted language that tips the scale
    for me is Vietnamese. The large number of stacking diacritics causes me nightmares.
    I would be at a loss for proper testing of the language and don't feel confident
    enough in the attempt. I have done Greek and Cyrillic and at my age, don't feel
    I have the years left to go beyond those 2 scripts. I greatly enjoyed my Cyrillic
    Weekend with Maxim a couple of years ago and spoke Greek as a child so I have
    at least some confidence in pursuing those 2 scripts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-03-16 15:07:16'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ jongseong:\r\n\r\n<cite>I might, for example, decide to make a Latin font
    specifically for an Asian Studies department [\u2026] a huge collection of special
    characters, ill supported by most fonts out there on the market.</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2013
    Why?!\r\nSad to say so, but experience with intersted parties often reveals: they
    tend to mourn about anything missing \u201CYOUR FONT IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH FOR US
    B\xC6\xC4\xC4\xC4H :-( \u201D \u2013 yet they are stubborn enough to complain
    if some IPA-beta bears the serif on the wrong side (and *they* know it better,
    of course); however, they stick to lousy laymen\u2019s fonts of poor quality (\u201Cfree\u201D!),
    producing awful typography, rather than getting (and paying) a professional for
    doing it right. \r\nThat\u2019s reality, but few lucky exceptions at least give
    proof of another kind of practice. \u2013 As it happens, I met both types of fellows\u2026
    ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 some characters will require different glyphs depending
    on the use. The preferred form of the capital Eng will be different depending
    on whether it is used for S\xE1mi or for African orthographies \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWell
    put, but your overal approach seems rather depressive to me. What will you do
    with the Eng when a user steps in and requires both S\xE1mi and African usability
    of your font \u2013? In my humble opinion, that kind of old-fashioned fractioned
    thinking ought to get overcome. I understand that we cannot reach a breakthrough
    solution for such cases on our own at once, but doing fonts *today* has something
    of a universal aspect, for which we should take care of.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 it's
    best to have a primary use in mind \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYes ok ok but here again
    you\u2019re confining fontmaker\u2019s target preliminarily to very tight boundaries.
    That is NOT the future.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 you can't just go ahead and claim
    that this represents \"all Latin-based languages\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI can. And all
    Cyrillic  ;-)\r\nIf a user of my font(s) happens to spot any essential gap, I\u2019ll
    fix it within a few month\u2019s time, or faster.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 The precomposed
    letters with diacritics with Unicode points are those inherited from earlier standards
    \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nyes yes we are already aware of this. It is not the point
    here.  o o o o o o o o\r\n\r\n_ _ _ _ \r\n@ agisaak:\r\n<cite>I am certainly in
    favour of providing the broadest language support which one can \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree that it is an issue to differentiate\r\n\u2013 current languages\r\n\u2013
    older variant orthographies\r\n\u2013 extinct languages\r\n\u2013 extinct or specialist
    writing systems\r\n\u2013 special transcriptional systems\r\n\u2013 local glyph
    variant preferences\r\na.s.o.\r\n\r\nAnd yet, where is the problem? \u2013 It
    is just about sorting it out and compile it to the best possible degree, performing
    improvements on occasion of the next due version upgrade. A bit of thinking, collecting
    and organisation.\r\n\u2013 Should we not be able to manage it?\r\n\r\n<cite>Very
    few fonts on the market currently include obsolete characters such a yogh and
    wynn. </cite>\r\n\r\nNot that few I suppose, but very few provide such ch.s in
    a proper design.\r\n\u2013 There it is again: the complaint about \u201Csomething
    that fails to give me what I want\u201D. But it is a *market* (as you put it),
    so you\u2019re likely to get what you want, perhaps within 48 hours. There are
    more people around here in stand-by-mood to await your commissions. It is entirely
    up to YOU getting a yogh or whatsoever in Semibold-Italics \u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    could then criticize them for omitting the various special characters used in
    Anglo-Saxon abbreviations, or the characters needed for pre-reform Irish, or the
    characters needed to transcribe Aramaic, or the diacritics needed to represent
    some language with only seven speakers remaining \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nOK, than
    let\u2019s volunteer to sort out what is needed in which field of study and set
    up a glyph coverage schedule which serves as a usefull guideline. I\u2019d go
    for it. But don\u2019t forget: it\u2019s work involved.\r\n\r\n<cite>There are
    many standards out there already.</cite>\r\n\r\nCould you be a bit more precisely
    upon this? What kind of standards are you referring to?\r\n\r\n\u2013 \u2013 \u2013
    \u2013 \u2013 \u2013 \u2013 \u2013\r\n@ archaica:\r\n<cite>What is needed depends
    on the intended use.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe use I intend to provide my fonts for is
    \u201Ctext\u201D. That\u2019s my target.\r\n\r\n_ _ _ _ _ _ _\r\n@ Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>If
    a foundry is going to the trouble of producing characters for a minority user
    group, then it also has to market to that group, or it's a waste of time \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    certainly right with this. However: *everyone* belongs to a minority user group.
    I refuse to give up the dream of fonting to serve as a universal means to bring
    those minoritans together \u2026 anyway."
  created: '2010-03-17 14:56:26'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Me, earlier: <cite>I might, for example, decide to make a Latin font specifically
    for an Asian Studies department [\u2026] a huge collection of special characters,
    ill supported by most fonts out there on the market.</cite>\r\n\r\nAndreas: <cite>\u2013
    Why?!</cite>\r\n\r\nAndreas, are you asking why I would want to make a font for
    this specific purpose, or why these characters are ill supported by most fonts
    out there on the market?\r\n\r\nAs for having a specific purpose, I think it makes
    sense to try to serve a well-defined set of needs, which makes it easier to manage.
    One has time to be thorough and address the user community's needs. If one just
    chooses a set of special characters to design, but leaves out some characters
    that will also be required by anyone using these or otherwise fails to address
    the needs of the user community, then the resulting font will be unusable for
    the intended purpose and all the effort will have been pointless. \r\n\r\nThe
    characters I was talking about are those used for transliterating Asian languages.
    These are letters with macrons, dots, and breves, and you wouldn't deny that it
    is rare to find fonts that support them. How many fonts support Vietnamese, even?
    And that is a living language with millions of potential users. Characters needed
    for scholarly transliteration are quite \r\n\r\n<cite>Sad to say so, but experience
    with intersted parties often reveals: they tend to mourn about anything missing
    \u201CYOUR FONT IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH FOR US B\xC6\xC4\xC4\xC4H :-( \u201D \u2013
    yet they are stubborn enough to complain if some IPA-beta bears the serif on the
    wrong side (and *they* know it better, of course); however, they stick to lousy
    laymen\u2019s fonts of poor quality (\u201Cfree\u201D!), producing awful typography,
    rather than getting (and paying) a professional for doing it right.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    are things that the user sees and there are things the type designers sees, and
    they can be rather different. The type designer will see the inconsistent stem
    widths, ugly curves, uneven colour, and faulty spacing that the user can't. However,
    the user will have an 'eye' for the correct shape of the letter\u2014certain expectations
    about normative letter forms\u2014that one who has never used the character doesn't
    have. In many cases, there is some existing typographic or fine writing tradition
    that has trained 'native' users to expect certain normative shapes, ducti, and
    modulation, and type designers need to listen to user input to see these.\r\n\r\nA
    glyph, however well designed from the type designer's point of view, will be a
    failed design if it looks wrong from the user's point of view. This is more demonstrably
    illustrated when designing for foreign writing systems. Or let me try a different
    analogy. You might be a great singer, but when you sing in a foreign language
    the speakers of the language complain about the pronunciation and incorrect phrasing.
    They prefer the same song performed by a native speaker, who sings out of tune
    and with horrible technique. You and the audience both have demanding ears, but
    are listening for different things; you have a better musical ear, but the audience
    has a better ear for the language. You should be careful not to dismiss such criticism
    so easily.\r\n\r\n<cite>What will you do with the Eng when a user steps in and
    requires both S\xE1mi and African usability of your font \u2013?</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    can provide alternate glyphs, as the SIL fonts do. With OpenType and language
    tags, appropriate forms can be automatically chosen. But you can't always count
    on software support or correct language tags being present, and you have to decide
    which variant to put as the default. Right now, the best method is to provide
    alternate versions of fonts and let the user choose the one that suits them. SIL's
    [[http://scripts.sil.org/cms/SCRIPTs/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=typetuner|TypeTuner]]
    is a great solution which lets users choose default glyphs and behaviours in selected
    fonts of theirs.\r\n\r\nMe, earlier: <cite>\u2026 you can't just go ahead and
    claim that this represents \"all Latin-based languages\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAndreas:
    <cite>I can. And all Cyrillic ;-)\r\nIf a user of my font(s) happens to spot any
    essential gap, I\u2019ll fix it within a few month\u2019s time, or faster.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    misunderstood me. What I said, in full, was that the characters required to support
    the current Latin-based orthographies of all living languages of Europe, as numerous
    as they are, do not represent \"all Latin-based languages\".\r\n\r\nWhen you talk
    about \"essential\" gaps, you are talking about making judgement calls about what
    characters can be considered inessential. There are always characters for highly
    specialized uses that will seem inessential until a publisher suddenly has to
    set a book on that esoteric subject.\r\n\r\nI admire your commitment to cover
    as many Greek-Latin-Cyrillic characters as possible with your Andron Mega. I must
    admit I have had similar aspirations. But one also has to be wary of the limitations
    of a one-size-fits-all approach to type design. Typeface design may be a series
    of compromises one after another at the best of times, but trying to harmonize
    characters that have wildly different historic provenances and that have never
    been used together into a single font may not always produce the results everyone
    prefers. For a particular purpose (say, Vietnamese) it may be preferable to fine-tune
    the diacritics placement, vertical metrics, and other details with only that use
    in mind without having to worry about what the decisions will mean for all the
    other characters one could conceivably support with the font."
  created: '2010-03-17 16:40:15'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I think you're making a mountain out of a molehill here -- all I'm really
    taking issue with here is your use of the term 'all'.\r\n\r\nFrom your comments
    (correct me if I am wrong), it seems that what you really want is to include support
    for all modern latin-based languages which have stable, established orthographies.
    That's not quite the same as 'all'. In fact, languages with stable, established
    orthographies are very much in the minority (in terms of numbers of languages,
    not number of speakers) and the conventions in use by minority languages are not
    always documented (at least not in places where they would be obtainable without
    doing actual fieldwork -- and if we don't restrict ourselves to extant languages
    many have no surviving documentation at all).\r\n\r\nMy original statement was
    that one couldn't reasonably expect any font to support *all* Latin languages.
    Let me revise this statement in light of your idiosynractic use of the word 'all':
    No font can be reasonably expected to support all Latin languages *unless* that
    is the goal which the designer explicitly set out to do.\r\n\r\nPut differently,
    if someone designs a font which targets only a particular set of languages, it
    would be reasonable to request that the designer incorporate additional languages
    into future versions (a request which the designer is of course free to ignore),
    but it isn't really reasonably to chastise the designer for an omission if they
    never claimed that comprehensive coverage was their intention.\r\n\r\nMe: <cite>
    There are many standards out there already. </cite>\r\n\r\nAndreas: <cite> Could
    you be a bit more precisely upon this? What kind of standards are you referring
    to? </cite>\r\n\r\nYou were the one who brought up the issue of standards. What
    I was thinking of, however, were the ISO/IEC 8859-n character sets, unicode blocks,
    the various Adobe Glyph sets, WGL4, etc.\r\n\r\nEach of these groups languages
    together in ways which are at least partially arbitrary and which may or may not
    be appropriate for a particular typeface.\r\n\r\nThis whole thread started with
    my somewhat facetious claim that the hcircumflex character sometimes makes me
    want to drop Esperanto support.\r\n\r\nWere I to design a face which specifically
    targeted Esperanto, I'd probably want to design it such that the ascender height
    is very nearly equal to the cap height, a property which not all faces have. If
    the ascender height differs radically from the caps height, its rather difficult
    to place the circumflex in a way which doesn't muck with one's vertical metrics.\r\n\r\nSo
    the question I'd like to raise is: if a face is *really* inappropriate for (e.g.)
    esperanto, does it make sense to include characters necessary for esperanto simply
    because the face includes other characters from the Latin Extended-A block? I'd
    say that letting the way that unicode (or any other set of standards) dictate
    your character set based on how it groups languages together will inevitably lead
    fonts to include some characters which just don't fit with the design.\r\n\r\nIf
    one's goal is to design a face which is intended for near-universal support, that's
    going to constrain certain design choices, so such a goal really isn't appropriate
    for the majority of faces.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-17 16:46:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So the question I'd like to raise is: if a face is *really* inappropriate
    for (e.g.) esperanto, does it make sense to include characters necessary for esperanto
    simply because the face includes other characters from the Latin Extended-A block?
    I'd say that letting the way that unicode (or any other set of standards) dictate
    your character set based on how it groups languages together will inevitably lead
    fonts to include some characters which just don't fit with the design.</em>\r\n\r\nEspecially
    since Unicode does not group languages in any systematic or consistent way. If
    characters needed for a particular language were proposed for inclusion in Unicode,
    or inherited from some earlier standard, as a group, then it is likely that they
    will appear together in the same Unicode block, but it is just as common, or more
    so, that characters for a particular language will be located across multiple
    blocks.\r\n\r\nI do have a client who prefer to support complete Unicode blocks,
    but they're software developers and being able to claim such support is convenient
    for them. Even so, just because they support one or two characters from a block
    doesn't mean that they want to support that particular block: they target specific
    blocks, but will admit strays from other blocks (e.g. the currency symbol block)
    if it makes sense to include these characters based on the language coverage they
    have arrived at through supporting the targeted blocks.\r\n\r\nFor the most part,
    I try to be more selective and target specific languages when planning glyph sets
    in consultation with clients, since I don't like wasting my time designing glyphs
    that will never be used (especially since the rarer, weirder characters are often
    the most difficult and time-consuming to design). Of course, this means a lot
    of research into language character sets and usage, but I'd rather spend my time
    doing research once than designing unnecessary glyphs multiple times.\r\n\r\nSometimes,
    I'm hired to consult on character sets, and I usually take a \u2018Chinese box\u2019
    or \u2018Russian doll\u2019 approach, designing a series of expandable sets with
    different levels of language support. The lowest level generally conforms to individual
    8-bit character sets plus variant glyphs and any stray characters that improve
    support for the covered languages; the next level(s) increase language support
    on a regional basis; and the upper level involves complete Unicode block support,
    albeit sometimes still omitting certain characters (e.g. the Old Church Slavonic
    characters in the Cyrillic block or the Coptic characters in the Greek block).\r\n\r\n<em>If
    one's goal is to design a face which is intended for near-universal support, that's
    going to constrain certain design choices, so such a goal really isn't appropriate
    for the majority of faces.</em>\r\n\r\nI entirely agree."
  created: '2010-03-17 18:26:13'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ agisaak:\r\n<cite>\u2026 ISO/IEC 8859-n character sets, unicode blocks,
    the various Adobe Glyph sets, \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2026 a bunch of unmatching
    standards each of which to cover the very same subject differently. Really funny.\r\nTo
    be serious about it: all these do help in making decisions upon coverage. But
    *none* of them is suitable as a definite plot for my final font layout. And as
    for the ISO-8859-n series: it belongs to the museum. It may make sense to check
    if a font matches some 8859-n layout, but, honestly, who is going to offer a font
    today which \u201Cmeets ISO 8859-x standard\u201D. Would be rediculous.\r\n\r\n<cite>WGL4</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is that? "
  created: '2010-03-18 08:25:15'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> To be serious about it: all these do help in making decisions upon
    coverage. But *none* of them is suitable as a definite plot for my final font
    layout. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat's exactly my point. And whatever character set you
    eventually arrive at isn't necessarily going to be useful to anyone else unless
    their goals are identical to your own. That's why I suggest we don't *need* additional
    standards -- the existence of such character sets tend to constrain designers
    in artificial ways.\r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, you are proposing developing
    some sort of resource which identifies which glyphs are used in particular languages,
    then I would wholeheartedly support such an endeavour.\r\n\r\nNote, though, that
    even for specific languages it generally won't be possible to easily specify some
    list of required glyphs without referencing the basic purpose of the font. Is
    gtilde, for example, required for Tagalog? It's no longer used, but appears in
    printed material much more recently than one finds (e.g.) long s in English. How
    much time must pass before a particular character becomes entirely obsolete? Will
    characters which appear only in loan words be considered part of the language?
    Does it matter how common those loans are? What about materials found only in
    lexicographic materials?\r\n\r\nEven if you clearly specify the set of languages
    which you intend to support, there's still going to be a lot of fuzziness in terms
    of which glyphs will be necessary, and this will depend largely on the fonts intended
    use.\r\n\r\nWGL4 = Windows Glyph List 4.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-18 11:04:46'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 whatever character set you eventually arrive at isn't necessarily
    going to be useful to anyone else unless their goals are identical to your own.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 some sort of resource which identifies which glyphs
    are used in particular languages</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is what I meant. For instance,
    a scheme collecting \u201Call Latin ch.s neccessary for rendering European (and
    neighbouring) languages in current orthographies\u201D would make sense in my
    opinion. Additional sets, e.g. long-s usage for older German or English, may be
    dealt with as add-ons. Same for other scripts.\r\n\r\n<cite>What about materials
    found only in lexicographic materials? </cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s getting the more
    delicate, of course, when it comes to more specific usage. A wide field, but one
    might be able to master this as well, to a certain extend at least.\r\nA good
    example for this is the [[http://gandalf.aksis.uib.no/mufi/|MUFI]], giving specialists
    a comprehensive and concise character repertoire applicable in one particular
    subject. Works quite well."
  created: '2010-03-18 16:33:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My approach for Adobe was a lot like John's: nested sets of increasing language
    support, each a superset of the previous.\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html
    has the Adobe extended Latin character set definitions.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-18 20:25:28'
date: '2010-03-15 12:13:31'
node_type: forum
title: 'Fontmakers: How do you decide upon character coverage?'

---
