---
author:
  name: Nick Cooke
  picture: 109834
body: "In a bid to attract new members The Type Directors Club in New York have produced
  a Veer sponsored booklet entitled \"How to Make Love to Your Type.\" \r\n\r\nDesign
  is by Brazilian master designer Roberto De Vicq De Cumptich. It's a bit of fun,
  but is all a bit rude from the 'female' front cover - (not quite a Brazilian, ;^),
  to the male back cover, so if you're a bit prudish or easily shocked don't open
  the pdf.\r\n\r\nI'm very proud that Roberto chose Houschka Pro as the text face
  using style set 2, and I must admit it looks pretty damn sexy!\r\n\r\nEnjoy!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Not one joke about tittles?
  created: '2010-03-16 12:55:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Haha. Nicely done. And Houschka looks great, Nick!
  created: '2010-03-16 13:22:18'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: I would be interested in what the women think about this brochure. It seemed
    to carry a great deal of female figures, and very few males. And, since there
    are a lot of gay typographers, do they also feel left out by this piece?
  created: '2010-03-16 14:05:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Dunno if I can speak for \xABthe women\xBB, but I for one can't say it appeals
    to me \u2013 I'm not offended or anything (and I really don't think I'm \xABprudish\xBB),
    I'm probably just totally outside the target audience. Not only in terms of the
    male/female dynamics (which does make it feel like this can't be targeted at me
    \u2013 I know there are many more type guys than type girls, but maybe this isn't
    the best way to change that), to me it also feels too \xAByoung\xBB, more cheap
    than witty, and too much like an iPod ad. Sorry to be so negative, just being
    honest."
  created: '2010-03-17 22:35:00'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Tittle jokes aside, I agree that the booklet is pretty tacky and sexist.
    Every time I see it I wonder how this one got past Carol's desk. And Nina makes
    a good point about the number of women in the type design field\u2014in the rest
    of design women often seem to be at least equal in numbers, and among young designers
    they dominate. I do wonder if the board was thinking about them when it approved
    this design."
  created: '2010-03-17 23:05:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: sometimes sex doesn't sell...
  created: '2010-03-17 23:15:36'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: '!!!!Not to mention the type on the back cover !!!?'
  created: '2010-03-17 23:25:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I had to take off my glasses to notice the back cover. Good to see that they
    managed to stuff in a cock!
  created: '2010-03-18 00:18:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I find it embarrassing and downright ugly. I don't mean the type, Nick. The
    type looks great. I mean the concept. It feels like the target audience is middle
    school diesel truck mechanic wannabees who lost their life-sized inflatable women
    dolls. We are pandering to putz-pounders instead of elevating our profession.
  created: '2010-03-18 00:31:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Every time I see it I wonder how this one got past Carol's desk. \r\n\r\nCarol
    claims she was visiting her brother's dairy farm the week it went to press. In
    my opinion that's a Cock and Bull story. ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:41:26'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: I think embarrassing is a perfect word for this.
  created: '2010-03-18 00:43:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '@Si--LOL!!!'
  created: '2010-03-18 00:44:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "How to make love to your type? Damn, I was expecting <em>The Story of O</em>.\r\nYeah,
    there's an erection, but where's the money shot?\r\nI fear this polite fluffing
    of the metaphor, quaint and sexist in a kinda sixties way, will leave potential
    members limp."
  created: '2010-03-18 02:56:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "a typo error (back cover):  BECOME AN OUTSTANDING MEMBER\r\n\r\nBECOME AN
    OUTSTANDick MEMBER :)\r\n\r\n----------\r\n\r\nAnd Corey is right: embarrassing;
    and couple drawings are bad\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 03:32:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Nick - LOL\r\n\r\nWell that went down like a sack of shit. But Roberto is
    Brazilian after all, they have a more 'relaxed' attitude to sex, not so PC. \r\n\r\nType
    must be taken seriously, but it is all about curves. When I first met my wife
    I showed her Penguin which I was working on at the time. She took one look at
    it and said 'You must be thinking about tits and arses all day long'. Quite perceptive,
    I thought, but maybe not ALL day long."
  created: '2010-03-18 10:35:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Nick, like I said, I don't think the problem is anyone here being PC. To
    me it's more a question of what level one chooses to communicate on. This is heavy-handedly
    overt in a way we already see more than enough of every day, and that I think
    fails to connect to the kind of sexiness and magic that working in-depth with
    type has. Yes, of course there are voluptuous curves in type. But it's deeper
    than that. \r\nThere's so much culture, so much depth in type; precision and sophistication
    and sensitivity. So much in type is about perception and about insinuation; so
    much of it is about the <em>un</em>spoken, the <em>in</em>visible. THAT to me
    is where type and eroticism connect.* And sorry, but this brochure has the precision,
    sophistication, sensitivity, and, yes, sexiness of a sledge hammer.\r\nIt's not
    about being prude; it's about missing the magic. That of type and that of sex.
    Maybe that's just me, and maybe I am really just not the target audience.\r\n\r\n(*
    I'm wondering if that might be a male/female rift right there?)"
  created: '2010-03-18 11:25:47'
- author:
    name: steve.mackley
    picture: 116356
  body: "\"It's not about being prude; it's about missing the magic. That of type
    and that of sex. Maybe that's just me, and maybe I am really just not the target
    audience.\"\r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more Nina. Well said."
  created: '2010-03-18 13:05:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Dead on, Nina, about everything you said except the male/female rift part.
    That isn''t it. That thing is just a failure no-matter how you look at it. '
  created: '2010-03-18 13:10:37'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Silhouettes of sexy women?! Jeez... I think that the TDC board (or whoever
    who runs that place) would be a better place if there were more women involved.
    Honestly.
  created: '2010-03-18 14:09:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Isn\u2019t there a sexy women silhouette font out there? "
  created: '2010-03-18 14:31:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Frode, that is the font the truckers use to put silhouettes on their mudflaps
    :-)
  created: '2010-03-18 14:34:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Isn\u2019t there a sexy women silhouette font out there?\r\n\r\nYep it's
    posted here... http://www.somethingawful.com/fakesa/fontsite/ "
  created: '2010-03-18 14:42:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I love the descriptions on that site. It makes you wonder why people go to
    all the time and effort of producing that rubbish.
  created: '2010-03-18 15:01:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "\"Another Great Concept\"\r\nIs this font on fire? Has it been gripped by
    tentacles? All we know is that it's another great font concept!\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2010-03-18 15:15:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '"Honest Fonts"'
  created: '2010-03-18 15:28:17'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "I just want to add...\r\n\r\nThe TDC is an excellent organization. It's dirt-cheap
    to become a member.\r\nAnd they have a lot of good (and free) lectures. Tonight
    is actually the eighth Type Salon they've had in the last ten weeks(!). \r\n\r\nIt's
    also great because, unlike other professional organizations, it's not overrun
    with half-interested students who just want to milk you for job connections. I've
    met some awesome type people and made a few real friends there. "
  created: '2010-03-18 17:19:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: TDC is a great organization, that is why I hate seeing it stoop to such undignified
    tactics.
  created: '2010-03-18 17:24:14'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "Jackson\r\n\r\nI don't think we are trashing the TDC here. We are trashing
    a TDC project.\r\n\r\nIt made me smile, but then I'm a male chauvinist pig. But
    even I know that it would not be seen as politically correct.\r\n\r\nI had not
    considered that the designer was Brazilian ... cultural differences may come into
    effect. But someone at the TDC offices should have reined this one in."
  created: '2010-03-18 17:26:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The client is not Brazil. The target audience is not only Brazilians or just
    men, it is worldwide. The objective is to increase membership of those with typographic
    interests regardless of gender or sexual preference. The Hustler Magazine approach
    does not succeed in that.
  created: '2010-03-18 17:35:32'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'I know no one was trashing the TDC, I just wanted to put something positive
    about them into the discussion. For the lurkers. '
  created: '2010-03-18 17:48:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Nina, you nailed it. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 18:15:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I do have to second Jackson\u2014we only gripe because we all know that TDC
    is way cooler than AIGA and don\u2019t want to see it slip."
  created: '2010-03-18 18:44:30'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: this is so clever, and yes, sometimes sex don't sells, for me it's just to
    get massive attention.
  created: '2010-03-19 05:22:21'
- author:
    name: RobRepta
  body: There's a difference between sexy and trashy, and this was plain trashy, not
    to mention kind of amateur.
  created: '2010-03-19 05:40:52'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lazygoddes_contents_3922.jpg]\r\n\r\nI've
    made fonts out of my photographs of Hannah Sandling for her book the 'Lazy Goddess'
    and they used it throughout the book and my real shots of her on the cover. \r\n\r\nMuch
    better than their chosen typefaces in the book is way less sexy than the photographs
    and silhouettes. \r\n\r\nAnd my silhouettes scale to A2. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC_0029_3518.jpg]\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hannahsandling.com/"
  created: '2010-03-19 10:29:22'
- author:
    name: nora g
    picture: 113099
  body: I'm with Nina and others here. And in my opinion it's in so far kind of stylish,
    but trivial and unimportant, that it seems to be part of the roll backward-trend,
    we all can see in various fields.
  created: '2010-03-19 11:11:35'
- author:
    name: DougBartow
    picture: 113264
  body: It's difficult to take those silhouetted shapes and make people NOT want to
    look at them. They've accomplished that in this case.
  created: '2010-03-19 11:36:51'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I'm embarrassed that I tweeted this out from the @Typophile account without
    reading this thread. I thought the thread title was surely a metaphor, not a poorly
    conceived bit of typographic self-indulgence. \r\n\r\nDisappointed in the TDC."
  created: '2010-03-19 20:06:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Joe, since you (i.e. @Typophile) retweeted my link to this thread, apologies
    if my wording was misleading.
  created: '2010-03-19 20:48:30'
- author:
    name: luxuryluke
    picture: 112078
  body: "omg\r\n*rollseyes*"
  created: '2010-03-20 00:29:03'
- author:
    name: mmc
    picture: 110633
  body: 'Well, I''m Brazilian and I can honestly say that I agree to what has been
    said here so far, especially Nina''s comment. There''s no way we have such a different
    culture that this is more acceptable. It is embarrassing, again, agreed. '
  created: '2010-03-20 06:07:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "\"I'm beginning to think I made a mistake posting this\" is an understatement.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    not one for the portfolio \u2013 'You'll never work in this town again!'\r\n\r\nCan
    we drop it now?"
  created: '2010-03-20 09:00:58'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "What is the difference between disrobing and exposing oneself?\r\n\r\nThis
    design is ugly, affected, uninspired, and inappropriate.\r\n\r\nOn one hand, I
    am surprised that the TDC would allow such a distasteful design to be used for
    a (global reaching) type education campaign and so many type \u201Cheads of state\u201D
    are connected with their organization. One the other hand, it\u2019s very obvious
    the TDC needs to take its own typographic medicine with its increasingly ugly
    web presence with its atrocious navigation.\r\n\r\n:-|\r\n\r\nPS... I will not
    preface my unacceptance of this type of blatantly unnecessary sexuality with \u201CI
    don\u2019t want to sound like a prude\u201D or \u201CPC\u201D and similar wording.
    The 20% of new yorkers that have genital herpes probably won\u2019t find me being
    unprogressive."
  created: '2010-03-20 09:15:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I'm beginning to think I made a mistake posting this\r\n\r\nWhy? Every
    cloud has a silver lining :)"
  created: '2010-03-20 16:10:18'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'The printed piece showed up in the mail today, looks like they fixed the
    missing commas. '
  created: '2010-03-20 16:28:57'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: "Wow\u2014perhaps it's spending too much time outside the US, but...er...
    \r\n\r\nThat brochure might have been uninspired in execution, perhaps infantile,
    and not ironic enough for some in it's use of objectified, impossibly proportioned
    male/female silhouettes. But it <em>wasn't even close</em> to distasteful. (Distasteful
    would have required a few spreads involving some type, Eric Gill, an English hunting
    dog, and sev\u2014well, I won't go on).\r\n\r\nIf anything raised my cockles,
    it was the cover (and no, not for the concept): I mean, did anybody else immediately
    think \"Marian Bantjes rip-off\"?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-20 16:58:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: <a href="http://nvelt.com/blog/2010/02/20/durex-ad/">New Durex adds</a>. Now
    <strong>that's</strong> making love to type!
  created: '2010-03-20 17:24:19'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>New Durex ads. Now that's making love to type!</cite>\r\n\r\nWith Hobo?!?!"
  created: '2010-03-20 17:56:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The printed piece showed up in the mail today\"\r\nToo bad they wasted
    money on printing."
  created: '2010-03-21 00:25:17'
- author:
    name: TypeSETit
    picture: 119272
  body: What's the problem... you people don't like magenta and black?
  created: '2010-03-21 03:06:58'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "That's not the problem.\r\n\r\nI just don't see any connection with that
    brochure and Type Directors Club."
  created: '2010-03-21 03:13:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Perhaps a connection to a Playboy club?
  created: '2010-03-21 15:38:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.behance.net/Gallery/Effing-Typeface/430218\">The Effing
    Typeface</a>.\r\n\r\n(PG 13)"
  created: '2010-03-21 15:52:33'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HB301S870___901_______3871.jpg]\r\n\r\nSomething
    from the Italians.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSC_0124_5786.jpg]\r\n\r\nstriking
    a pose with Star and OK magazine boys. "
  created: '2010-03-21 23:23:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/authors/emily_king\">King, E</a>. (2005).
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Robert-Brownjohn-Typography-Emily-King/dp/1568985509\"><em>Robert
    Brownjohn: Sex and typography</em></a>. <a href =\"http://www.papress.com/html/our.home.page.tpl?cart=1269221477186446\">Princeton
    Architectural Press</a>. New York.\r\n\r\n(this book was bound to come up)\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-22 01:57:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't get the connection beyond the title, Christopher.\r\n\r\nI have the
    Brownjohn book and it is hardly a kin to the TDC piece. Have you read the book?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Your links often don't work as this one and may need a tag inserted. "
  created: '2010-03-22 01:59:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Not much to get really. Just a light hearted post. \r\n\r\nRegarding the
    links, I noticed that they were not working so I re-edited the html until they
    did (I missed an \" somewhere). As it stands, they appear to work on my end now.
    Let me know if they are still broken.\r\n\r\n(No, I have not read the book, I
    just came across it randomly and it sprang to mind when I saw this thread. Is
    it a good read/worth buying?"
  created: '2010-03-22 03:04:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It is not that great of a book, actually.  He was the guy who did the Goldfinger
    anf From Russia With Love James Bond titles among others. The title is more about
    the publisher getting attention paid to book for sales than any real steamy content.
    Most of his stuff was straight forward advertising design and his life story with
    associations with big names like Maholy Nagi and Chermayeff & Geismar.
  created: '2010-03-22 03:19:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I just got my copy of the booklet in the mail. In print it really looks tacky.
    An unfortunate sour note for an otherwise great organization. '
  created: '2010-03-23 13:17:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I have to disagree Bill. \r\n\r\nI received my copy in the mail and it looks
    a thousand times better than the pdf."
  created: '2010-03-23 19:38:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "So... my copy arrived and apparently I have to to a meeting with HR*\r\n\r\n*not
    really ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-23 19:49:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '"...it looks a thousand times better than the pdf." but not enough better
    to stop me from trashing the "keep-sake" in a heart-beat.'
  created: '2010-03-23 20:46:03'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I know I\u2019m coming late to the party, but I just looked at the thing
    and I think it\u2019s OK. Display advertisements in typical homosexualist publications
    aim for that level of camp and overshoot embarrassingly half the time. Just as
    a comparison."
  created: '2010-03-26 20:16:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Geez, I was googling \"putz-pounding\" and imagine my surprise when it brought
    me here.\r\nHi everybody!\r\nBTW -  Joe, is \"homosexualist\" a Canadianism? I
    mean, what's the \"ist\" for?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-28 18:59:22'
- author:
    name: MrMoto
  body: At least -- and this is very rare in advertising -- this brochure acknowledges
    that many women have different-sized breasts!
  created: '2010-03-28 21:32:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...imagine my surprise when it brought me here.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!"
  created: '2010-03-28 21:56:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Geez, I was googling \"putz-pounding\" and imagine my surprise when it brought
    me here.\r\n\r\nSo you're a White Sox fan? When he was Seattle's closer we called
    this pitching fastballs. \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JJ_Putz  "
  created: '2010-03-29 03:56:04'
date: '2010-03-16 11:59:34'
files:
- filename: TDC_brochure_final_1_28_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/TDC_brochure_final_1_28_0.pdf
node_type: forum
title: TDC does sexy type education

---
