---
author:
  name: Greenpig
body: "I understand the logic behind the \"Th\" ligature, of course, and I've tried
  my best to get used to it, but frankly, I can't stand it. Not only is it typographically
  unidiomatic (so that it always looks a little like a mistake -- and indeed, people
  often say, \"something's wrong with your printer!\" when they see it), but it's
  also just ugly. In the \"f\" ligatures, the f's curve flows neatly into the following
  letter, but the rectilinear collision of T and h doesn't create a natural join:
  it usually looks like they've just been tightly tracked to overlap. The net effect
  for me is oddly runic, and I'd rather not have it in the books I'm setting.\r\n\r\nMoreover,
  it's a PITA to work around: you have to do a find and replace and deal with any
  reflow that arises, which pretty much necessitates doing the F&R on a case-by-case
  basis. In a 250-page book, that's a whole lot of clicking the Change/Find button.\r\n\r\nHow
  do you work around this? Or am I the only one who hates this ligature?"
comments:
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "The 'Th' ligature in which font? It makes no sense to make a blanket claim
    about any ligature.\r\n\r\nJust do a global search and replace which finds 'Th'
    and applies 'ligatures off' to it. In InDesign, you'd do this by putting 'Th'
    in the 'find what' field, leaving the 'change to' field blank, and setting the
    'change format' options appropriately.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-03-17 18:49:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think he means the Th ligature that Adobe puts in a lot of their fonts.
    I'm rather dubious of it myself. It's an interesting idea, but I don't think it
    should be enabled by default.
  created: '2010-03-17 18:56:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I agree with you, and have never included it in any of my fonts.\r\nMark
    is right, it should be a discretionary ligature."
  created: '2010-03-17 18:57:36'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "It's a designer decision, plain and simple. By and large, it's the choice
    of designer Robert Slimbach -- but to a great extent, Robert guides the style
    of Adobe Originals in general, so it has evolved into a common ligature for most/all
    of our fonts. If another Originals designer doesn't want it in their fonts, we
    don't put it in.\r\n\r\nWe have noted opinions, both for and against, ever since
    it first appeared (which I think was in the first Adobe OpenType fonts).\r\n\r\nI
    agree that it's helpful to cite specific typeface designs, since its success (IMO)
    does vary depending on the design. On one hand, I'd say there is very little chance
    of it going away in Adobe fonts, since, like I said, it is Robert's preference.
    On the other hand, we are interested in customer feedback and do take note of
    it. Opinion is mixed; it is not universally despised by any means.\r\n\r\nFor
    InDesign users, one technique for turning it off: Make a GREP style that finds
    'Th' and applies a character style with ligatures disabled."
  created: '2010-03-17 19:10:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Mark is always right :) '
  created: '2010-03-17 19:12:32'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Christopher beat me to it (a GREP style is the fire-and-forget solution you're
    looking for), but I have to say I was pleasantly surprised by the Th's in Minion
    and Garamond Premier. First time I ever saw Th ligs (being used to manually using
    Type 1 fonts for "ff" and "fj") -- and boy, doesn't my name look classy now!
  created: '2010-03-17 20:29:59'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "As a designer of titling fonts the \"Th\" is often necessary and blanket
    comments like that are just that. I edited it so as not to sound mean.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Th_5845.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes TdJ you look good now :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-17 21:39:15'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Woops.
  created: '2010-03-17 21:46:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That one looks sweet, Michael!
  created: '2010-03-17 22:05:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I have no problem with Th ligatures per se, and yours is a beauty, Michael.
    It's just a bit odd to see one in a traditional text face like Garamond, especially
    as a default.
  created: '2010-03-17 22:13:12'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: 'I agree Mark, but isn''t that what the bells and whistles of revisionist
    design is all about? Nothing creative, just new and improved! Mo money :-) '
  created: '2010-03-17 23:19:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "When I was doing Hypatia Sans, nobody said \"you must have a Th ligature\"
    but I was happy to include it, and have it on by default. I'm very fond of the
    \"Th\" ligature, and I like seeing my name with it on. I totally understand that
    it's a matter of taste, however.\r\n\r\nI agree that it's unfortunate that applications
    don't offer any global controls for turning on or off specific ligatures, but
    such is life. Search and replace works okay, though one must be careful to do
    it at the end of the typesetting process.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-17 23:41:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"though one must be careful to do it at the end of the typesetting process.\"\r\n\r\nbecause
    we all know, we NEVER have revisions to contend with :-)"
  created: '2010-03-17 23:47:18'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: "Hmm, I like it. I even used it for a logo for myself:\r\nwww.officeforlostobjects.com\r\n\r\nOf
    course, you can see an intentional embracing of ligatures there."
  created: '2010-03-18 02:59:20'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "There seem to be many lines to read between  in Christopher\u2019s response.
    Somebody high up wants them in, and you\u2019ve got to scream bloody murder to
    keep them out. And when they\u2019re in, you can\u2019t turn them off individually.
    (Any solution involving regular expressions is really no better than programming
    your own output directly in PostScript. Or using Windows.)"
  created: '2010-03-18 04:50:39'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: The Th lig. used by National Geographic for their body serif font grated on
    when I noticed it. But not until then.
  created: '2010-03-18 10:55:22'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "I think having \"Th\" appear somewhere in your name must bias you toward
    liking this ligature. Like Thomas and Theunis it appears in my name (middle &
    last). I find it distracting when I see the \"Th\" in Georgia. I always want it
    to connect like a ligature.\r\n\r\nNow that I'm thinking about it, are there any
    sans serifs with a \"Th\" ligature? Now those would probably look bad..."
  created: '2010-03-18 12:11:18'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Thesing and Thomas, let's join up forming a "Thigature apprethiation club"!
  created: '2010-03-18 12:24:22'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: I have never liked it either.
  created: '2010-03-18 13:58:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Now, if only [[http://www.behance.net/kirill26|Kirill Tkachov]] or [[http://new.myfonts.com/person/Sergiy_Tkachenko/|Sergiy
    Tkachenko]] would show up to offer their thoughts on the Tk ligature...
  created: '2010-03-18 20:22:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: :-)
  created: '2010-03-18 21:12:10'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Though actually I find the <cite>Th</cite> ligature a readily detectable
    marker of InDesign all-ligatures book composition. Tons of sentences begin with
    <cite>Th</cite>, many at the beginning of paragraphs, whereas you have to flip
    through many pages just to find and <cite>\uFB01</cite>. Why would one do this?
    Because one is sick to death of 21st-century books with MS Word\u2013like \u201Ctypesetting\u201D
    and these can be more readily boycotted this way."
  created: '2010-03-18 23:17:07'
- author:
    name: mattaron
    picture: 109755
  body: 'I think you''ve summarized this issue fairly well, Joe. We used to experience
    books with occasional ugliness in their typesetting (or opportunities for improvement)
    where the <em>fi</em> and <em>fl</em> ligatures were omitted. Now with InDesign
    defaults and the (very nice) book faces Adobe ships with the various flavors of
    Creative Suite, we have an excessive of <em>Th</em> ligs included, particularly
    at the beginning of sentences and paragraphs. Over the length of a whole novel
    (see <em>The Magicians</em> by Lev Grossman from last year) the <em>Th</em> ligatures
    are incredibly distracting. '
  created: '2010-03-19 00:28:01'
- author:
    name: Greenpig
  body: "I suppose I should have been more specific about what fonts I meant. I thought
    everyone would know (and I think most did) that I meant the Adobe Originals faces,
    progenitors of this ligature: specifically Arno and the Garamonds. And I was also
    talking about standard, garden-variety text setting. Titling and lettering are
    a different ballgame.\r\n\r\nReally the only solution is to allow ligatures to
    be chosen individually. Making \"Th\" discretionary isn't the answer, because
    those who do like to use it are unlikely to want a text full of \"ct\" or \"st\"
    ligatures. (Maybe there should be three categories: standard ligatures, controversial
    ones, and those that will only rarely be used. Better yet: let users define their
    own sets.)\r\n\r\nI'm curious: What's the advantage of using GREP over a plain,
    case-sensitive search for \"Th\"? In my experience, using find and replace to
    apply a \"no ligatures\" character style globally doesn't work, because this replaces
    any previously applied character style, and that's a problem if \"no ligs\" style
    isn't based on the replaced one.\r\n\r\nYou can use find and replace to turn off
    ligatures as local formatting, but the wider set of the non-ligature combination
    can and will cause reflow if, like me, you make the avoidance of loose, gappy
    lines a priority.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-19 20:33:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>What's the advantage of using GREP over a plain, case-sensitive search
    for \"Th\"?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe advantage is that you create it as part of a paragraph
    style, and the substitutions happen automatically. There's no need to worry about
    doing it as the very last step (and maybe forgetting to). You just set up a GREP
    style at the beginning, and forget about it."
  created: '2010-03-19 21:47:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Note: Christopher and Theunis aare suggesting a GREP *style*, not a GREP
    find & replace. Which I believe is only available in CS4.'
  created: '2010-03-20 12:30:54'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Yes, thanks for clarifying, Kent.
  created: '2010-03-20 17:07:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@Aaron Thesing : <cite> Now that I'm thinking about it, are there any sans
    serifs with a \"Th\" ligature? Now those would probably look bad... </cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    revisited and harmonized ITC Franklin family has a default \u201CTh\u201D ligature
    in its standard {liga} feature.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ThomasTheunisThesing_5188.png]"
  created: '2010-03-21 21:36:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: And as mentioned earlier, I put one in Hypatia Sans.
  created: '2010-03-21 22:27:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not to be outdone in silliness and vanity:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shinn_5195.png]"
  created: '2010-03-21 23:10:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>Now, if only Kirill Tkachov or Sergiy Tkachenko would show up
    to offer their thoughts on the Tk ligature...</em>\r\n\r\nOoh, good ones. And
    let's not forget Tblisi and Tlalocatepetl (the latter being one of those words
    that you just want to wandering around saying for the sheer pleasure of the sounds)."
  created: '2010-03-22 02:49:38'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "For those who still see Adobe's role in the propagation of the 'Th' ligature
    as some kind of evil plot to destroy the universe, I can tell an anecdote: During
    the development of Adobe Clean (Adobe's new corporate sans serif typeface), there
    was a joined Th ligature. Robert and I were discussing design details one day,
    and I said that I thought that letter pair might look better unjoined. Not long
    after that, he rolled out a revision without the ligature, and said he had tried
    it out and agreed that it looked better without it. (In fact, there is a ligature
    glyph, but it's virtually the same as the regular unjoined letter pair.)\r\n\r\nRobert
    might very well have gotten feedback from others in the Type group; it's not like
    I have some fantastic history of telling him how to improve his designs. The point
    is that Robert listens to others, considers the options, and does what he thinks
    is right for the design -- just like many <em>many</em> other type designers out
    there."
  created: '2010-03-22 03:11:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...some kind of evil plot to destroy the universe\"\r\n\r\nWell, maybe
    not quite THAT evil :-)"
  created: '2010-03-22 03:22:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Immagine-1_5041.png]'
  created: '2010-03-22 09:34:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Ricardo gets it :-)
  created: '2010-03-22 12:56:16'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Nick... the kerning is a bit tight between the N's :-)
  created: '2010-03-23 02:06:59'
- author:
    name: Typical
    picture: 112513
  body: "Speaking of asymmetrical Ts, and out of curiosity, has there ever been a
    Ti ligature? In fonts that have tighter than average kerning for Ta-To-Te, Ti
    looks a little spacey... \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ti2_5116.png]"
  created: '2010-03-24 09:51:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No need for a ligature, when typographers can set dotless i if they want
    to.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-24 14:59:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: or have a calt feature to do it in a stylistic set.
  created: '2010-03-24 15:03:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: but not in Turkish.
  created: '2010-03-24 17:19:15'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Setting a dotless <cite>i</cite> alters the source text. The word <cite>Title</cite>
    is not the word <cite>T\u0131tle</cite> any more than it is the word <cite>Tjtle</cite>."
  created: '2010-03-24 17:25:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right.\r\nSo the appropriate feature would be Discretionary Ligature:\r\n\r\n<code>
    sub T i' by dotlessi.alt ; </code>\r\n\r\n(dotlessi.alt being the same glyph as
    dotlessi, renamed.)\r\n\r\nThe trouble with putting that in the feature is that
    if someone selected it to get e.g. \"ffi\" ligature, they would also get the \"T\u0131\"
    ligature, which they might not be expecting.\r\n\r\nBut as with the Th ligature,
    it's a foundry peccadillo."
  created: '2010-03-24 17:52:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, that would best be a glyph named \"i.alt\" (which still happens to
    look like a dotless i).\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-24 23:36:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK.\r\nI'll get it right eventually."
  created: '2010-03-25 02:39:25'
- author:
    name: 4thfebruary
    picture: 114255
  body: "The -Th- and -Tk- ligatures available in typeface -faistra- :)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typographyserved.com/Gallery/typeface-AfaistraA-%28preview%29/456949"
  created: '2010-04-05 12:15:04'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "@kentlew I like the way the \"Th\" works in that Franklin Gothic sample.
    I stand corrected. Of course, my name <em>is</em> set in it...\r\n\r\n@Thomas
    Phinney I missed your mention of Hypatia Sans earlier. I went from CS to CS4 and
    so I missed out on that face. I glanced at its [[http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/landing/hypatia/hypatia.html|web
    page]] again today and noticed that it is now over three years since the debut.
    When can we buy it?"
  created: '2010-04-05 18:38:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Supposedly in a couple of months. The italics are all done at last, only three
    years after the upright faces.
  created: '2010-04-08 00:10:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "><cite>I hate the 'th' ligature </cite>\r\n\r\nthat reminds me\u2026 I need
    to put two of them in this font.\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 02:58:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "In general, if the alphabet is not primarily decorative, I find appropriate
    to use (or design) ligatures when they arise from the written form.\r\nAnd if
    Eric Gill got away in designing an [I], [l] and [1] without relevant features
    of distinction, well, I guess we can see this proliferation of non-decorative,
    unnatural ligatures as a \"zeitgeist\" of our time.\r\nLive fast, love hard, die
    with your mask on. :)"
  created: '2010-11-05 21:32:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I wasn't aware of Th ligatures in normal printing faces. As noted, they may
    serve a purpose in script faces.\r\n\r\nI know I once saw a manual <em>typewriter</em>
    with the letters \"th\" as a single character on one of the keys - if it was a
    superscript \"th\" for numbers, that might have made sense, but simply as a way
    to make typing quicker by saving a keystroke, I thought it was a horrible idea.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"ct\" and \"st\" ligatures are mannered items used for self-consciously antique
    faces. For a run-of-the-mill roman, they would not be appropriate. If Adobe is
    producing faces like Times Roman, Century Expanded, or even Garamond, with a \"Th\"
    ligature, I would be predisposed to think it a very bad idea, although I might
    change my mind when I actually see the ligature in question. (It doesn't even
    seem to be a necessary kerning combination, let alone a potential ligature.) But
    if it's just script faces, or fancy swash italic faces, that's different.\r\n\r\nEDIT:
    Having seen it in Adobe Garamond on MyFonts, and in Franklin Gothic in this thread,
    I concur with the original poster's opinion. It is out of place in ordinary text
    faces, and should not be inflicted on people who might use it with word processing
    programs that don't provide the opportunity to turn it off.\r\n\r\nIt is a disaster
    from an aesthetic point of view, and I cannot but wonder what those responsible
    could have been thinking."
  created: '2010-11-06 00:39:29'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@quadibloc: Yes, the problem does not seem simple design choices per se,
    which involve the addition of ligatures that I personally see as a lack of economy,
    but the automatic substitution set by default on software. There are also text-intensive
    faces with an [f] form which makes the need of [f_i] and [f\u2013l] an optional."
  created: '2010-11-13 13:00:34'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Would you like [f] this way?:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/th_f_4503.png]\r\nFirst
    two [f] are f.alternate, last \"ordinary\"\r\nAnd NN as an icing on the cake ;)\r\n[this
    font is a traditional text face http://typophile.com/node/73413 ]"
  created: '2010-11-13 14:36:25'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: So, if you do a Th and a Tk and Tb ligature, why not do a Tl ligature? Would
    it be correct to to do the others and leave l out?
  created: '2010-11-17 20:38:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just curious. Everyone is talking about a letter pair, and not about words.
    I would have thought the original reason for the ligature is that what usually
    follows the Th (in English, anyway) is a lower-case letter, usually a vowel, frequently
    an \"e.\" \r\n\r\nThe problem is one of spacing. Easy enough to avoid spacing
    problems with T and h -- change the design of the \"T\", or change the spacing
    of the font. Oh. Consequences. T's with very short crossbars don't look quite
    right. The modern aesthetic is for tight spacing of letters.\r\n\r\nI've seen
    any number of fonts where kerning with the capital T created a rather ugly blob.
    Admittedly, this is most common with the \"i\" as opposed to the \"h\", but you
    can find \"h\" examples too.\r\n\r\nAs with most problems, solutions involve compromises.
    I prefer the Th ligature to the \"kern into an ugly blob\" solution. The \"let
    the extra space fall where it may\" solution has proponents, and does make life
    easier -- editors, who often have the final say, won't mark it \"P.E. touching\"
    because it is a ligature. But this is offset by the query from designers (graphic
    designers) who write \"Can't you do something about this?\"\r\n\r\nCompositors
    understand compromises, it's their business. A lonely business, it seems . . .\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nIt
    just occurred to me, If you do Nick's last name with a lowercase double-n ligature,
    it becomes \"Shim.\" Just what you need when things are a bit too loose . . . "
  created: '2010-11-19 22:45:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "However, be wary of too much keming \u2026"
  created: '2010-11-19 22:57:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Thanks for an interesting thread. Funnily enough it's reminded me to keep
    such ligatures discretionary \u2014 at least in a sans face which seems to need
    more 'separation' between characters..."
  created: '2010-11-20 01:41:56'
date: '2010-03-17 18:12:18'
node_type: forum
title: I hate the "Th" ligature!

---
