---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I recently received my membership renewal from SoTA. It is hard to support
  a phantom organization.\r\nHas SoTA ceased to exist? It seems they do nothing anymore.
  Other than the wonderful Ampersands for Haiti project, they seem to be in a coma.
  \ Last year, the somewhat ho-hum TypeCon program was barely posted before the event
  and this year is no better. By now, everyone should know who the speakers are and
  what the conference will cost. A Professional organization should be run, well,
  professionally.\r\n\r\nIt takes a lot to get me to bitch on a public forum but sometimes
  only the squeaky wheel gets oiled.\r\n\r\nChris\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: You go girl!
  created: '2010-03-17 23:03:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Was there even a call for submissions for Typecon 2010?
  created: '2010-03-17 23:07:53'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: I feel a bit bad to complain after the wonderful Haiti project; but I'd appreciate
    some reasonably timely information about TypeCon too. For those considering to
    fly in from further away, it might not be easy to deal with spontaneous/late information.
    (And I didn't see a call for submissions either.)
  created: '2010-03-17 23:44:19'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: 'SoTA is far from defunct, and we''ve been working hard to make this the best
    TypeCon ever. Granted managing the Haiti project took a lot of the board''s time,
    but it was worth it. Watch your in boxes in the next week. There will be worthy
    news about TypeCon and calls for papers. '
  created: '2010-03-17 23:48:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Delegation is a wonderful management tool.
  created: '2010-03-17 23:56:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The schedule of events and speakers last time was made public so near the
    time of the conference that I'm sure the attendance was reduced by the lateness
    of the notices.\r\n\r\nIt also gave the impression of SoTA not having its act
    together. \r\n\r\nI really enjoyed the conference, though, as I have every one
    I've gone to. "
  created: '2010-03-18 00:00:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "SoTA has always had web site troubles - late opening of registration etc.,
    So I would share Chis' concerns if this wasn't the same every year. They still
    seem to pull off a good conference even in troubling economic times. \r\n\r\nI
    think it's really a case of having volunteers running the site who also have day
    jobs. Personally seeing the work put in by Michelle on the Haiti project and being
    hit up continuously (okay twice) for sponsorship by Jimmy-G SoTA seems to be as
    active as ever.   "
  created: '2010-03-18 00:09:19'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "I'm also a board member. There is a lot going on behind the scenes. I actually
    spent part of my afternoon proofreading email blasts that are scheduled to go
    out next week. The call for submissions and venue information was included in
    these.\r\n\r\nThe conference itself is being held a little later than normal this
    year. It will be held a the end of August in Los Angeles, California. We're really
    excited about the location. LA has a great design community and so many good schools.
    We're working hard to re-vamp the education forum and to make this the best conference
    ever. \r\n\r\nAt the end of January, the Font Aid project distracted us quite
    a bit. We made an effort to put the project together quickly. We still plan to
    post the PDF speciman book to Lulu.com for people to print-on-demand. \r\n\r\nNow
    that the Font Aid project is wrapping up, we're more focused on conference logistics
    and we plan to get more details to everyone very soon. We appreciate people being
    patient. The board members are all volunteers with busy day jobs, but we all care
    very much about SoTA and Typecon and want to see the organization thrive for many
    years to come.\r\n\r\nMichelle"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:13:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Delegation is a wonderful management tool.\r\n\r\nReminds me of the scene
    in the homeless shelter in the classic movie Scrooged...\r\n\r\nClaire - fire
    these people!\r\nFire them?\r\nThey're volunteers. They're here out of kindness.\r\nBecause
    no one will PAY them!\r\nIt's Christmas Eve.\r\nThey're like this every day, I
    guarantee it!\r\n\r\nSo as Bill Murray would say \"SoTA - They're like this every
    day, I guarantee it!\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:14:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Personally seeing the work put in by Michelle on the Haiti project\"\r\n\r\nAs
    I said before, this was a sterling effort showing what SoTA CAN do.\r\n\r\nI still
    am convinced that TypeCons prior to last year were much better publicized and
    sooner publicized than Atlanta and this year so far.\r\nI am sure they can make
    a liar out of me for this this year and I hope that they do!\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:18:26'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Delegation? Never heard of it.\r\n\r\nSounds something like MS Project.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 00:40:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "TypeCon is always a little late getting going, but it always comes through!\r\n\r\nBear
    in mind the degree to which the local community is involved.\r\nThat keeps things
    fresh each year, although it would no doubt be more efficient to trot out a standard
    package.\r\n\r\n[I was a SOTA board member for several years, and one of the local
    organizers of TypeCon 2002 in Toronto.] \r\n\r\nI have my speaker submission ready..."
  created: '2010-03-18 01:05:44'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "This year, I am one of the n00b members of the SoTA board.\r\n\r\nI absolutely
    agree with the comments that communication and timeliness have been areas where
    SoTA has needed to improve. This year will mark my eighth TypeCon. From my own
    experience, any delay which prevents getting important information out to the
    community can often be a source of frustration. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of delegation,
    one of my goals as a board member is to increase the number and the quality of
    these communications, particularly related to email blasts. We will be getting
    more information out to the community much faster and on a more regular basis
    as we move forward. I am dedicating a fair amount of my time specifically to this
    task.\r\n\r\nI would also like to echo Juliet and Michelle\u2019s statements that
    SoTA is actively working on several TypeCon-related announcements and updates.
    The general call for speakers (along with a call for the education forum) will
    be posted and delivered within the next week or so.\r\n\r\nNaturally, any additional
    suggestions are always welcome.\r\n\r\n(Thanks for squeaking Chris.)\r\n\r\nGrant"
  created: '2010-03-18 01:40:11'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "And though the official call for speakers hasn't gone out, the program is
    already being discussed. Each year we make an effort to find interesting speakers
    in the local community. LA is providing us with countless interesting possibilities.
    Sometimes speakers approach us and sometimes we approach them. We've had several
    people already approach us this year who are well known in the Typographic community,
    but who have never spoken at Typecon. We're excited to have fresh faces on the
    program, but I don't think we can announce any names yet. I know that's a tease,
    but I don't want to make announcements until proposals are approved and people
    are 100% committed.\r\n\r\nWe're also putting together some great panel discussions
    including one Juliet is working on about post-graduate Typographic education in
    the US.\r\n\r\nFeedback on our previous conferences is always welcome. After each
    conference we spend many hours discussing the conference, what worked and what
    didn't. As far as content we try to keep a delicate balance between history and
    technology, academia and industry. We're always curious how people feel about
    this balance and how we can improve.\r\n\r\nMichelle"
  created: '2010-03-18 02:24:47'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> LA is providing us....\r\n\r\nLouisiana? Los Angeles?...."
  created: '2010-03-18 02:46:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bravo, Grant!
  created: '2010-03-18 03:08:29'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: Los Angeles
  created: '2010-03-18 03:09:25'
- author:
    name: pgariepy
    picture: 110327
  body: "Hi Michelle, I hope its not too late in August to interfere with the start
    of the fall semester. I would like to volunteer again. The Buffalo conference
    was great. I couldn't make it to Atlanta. Looking forward to improvements to the
    education forum. Tell Michael Clark I'll drive him to California and be his assistant
    if he will do a workshop.\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nPeter Gariepy"
  created: '2010-03-18 03:59:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I hope its not too late in August to interfere with the start of the fall
    semester.\r\n\r\nDetails... http://www.typecon.com/ \r\n\r\nTypeCon2010 announced
    for Los Angeles\r\nSunday, July 19 1:28 pm by tamye\r\nSOTA is super excited to
    be bringing TypeCon2010 to the great city of Los Angeles. Conference hotel and
    headquarters is the Century Plaza Hyatt Regency. Mark your calendars for August
    17-22, 2010! \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 04:24:05'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: Peter, we'd love to have you involved again. I'll talk to you offline about
    the details. Hopefully it will work with your schedule.
  created: '2010-03-18 16:51:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Si! I see there has been a burst of activity!
  created: '2010-03-18 16:57:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Suggestion for TypeCon: Waive the conference fee for graduate students who
    are presenting in exchange for their chairing sessions.\r\n\r\nRegarding fee's,
    if you go to <a href =\"http://www.typecon.com/tc2008static/\">TypeCon's 2008
    site</a> you can see conference fees range from $125 \u2013 $375 USD depending
    on your status, including a $50 half day pass (a nice touch)."
  created: '2010-03-18 17:08:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Too much formalization of quid pro quo bogs things down: the technique is,
    just volunteer and don''t register :-)'
  created: '2010-03-18 17:36:01'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Each year we have about 20 students who volunteer at the conference in exchange
    for free admission. Usually these are local students, but we sometimes have out-of-town
    students and a few professionals. It's a lot of work, but a great experience.
    We generally require that volunteers commit to 3 days of volunteering. The main
    conference sessions always start on Friday and we generally need the most volunteer
    help on the Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday before that. I've been the volunteer
    coordinator for the last 3 years. We formalized the process a bit last year and
    required volunteers to submit an application. I haven't updated the application
    for Typecon 2010, but hope to get it out soon. With students, it's sometimes hard
    to pin them down too far in advance.\r\n\r\nFor students who aren't able to volunteer,
    we offer discounted rates. In the next week, we'll also be announcing a new student
    award that we're really excited about."
  created: '2010-03-18 17:58:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Los Angeles\r\n\r\nWowww. So... maybe... this is going to be my... first
    time :)"
  created: '2010-03-18 20:47:53'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: Chris, are you going? I m planning to attend this year!
  created: '2010-03-18 21:05:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, Ale, I will be there! Hope to see you again!
  created: '2010-03-18 21:10:52'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Based on these posts, the bottleneck seems to be the outdated (also dangerous
    and standards-noncompliant) practice of \u201CE-mail blasts.\u201D Can\u2019t
    you just run a blog, with updates every now and then saying \u201CWe\u2019re not
    dead. We\u2019ve got a big announcement coming up,\u201D then run the big announcement?
    RSS (and the twit\u2019s RSS, Twitter) will get the word out.\r\n\r\nEssentially,
    nobody\u2019s asking you to typeset a brochure in InDesign just to tell us what\u2019s
    coming up in the next conference. This seems to be the comparable level of pluperfection
    that is holding you back."
  created: '2010-03-18 23:14:51'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Believe it or don\u2018t, not everyone will actively bookmark and read a
    blog on a regular basis. Nor will they subscribe to RSS feeds or actively engage
    via Twitter or Facebook. Yes, we should be more regularly \u2018vocal\u2019 through
    these other avenues (as described) \u2026 I\u2019m not dismissing that at all.
    It\u2019s just that email remains the single most reliable (and common) method
    of distributing (read: broadcasting) information in digital form.\r\n\r\nThe society
    has thousands of individuals signed up to receive information via their inbox
    (with more being added each week). We would be remiss to ignore this particularly
    powerful venue of communication. However, I promise that we will be spreading
    the word through Facebook and Twitter and other social channels. Honest."
  created: '2010-03-19 04:32:43'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Oh, and here\u2019s a teaser of some of the conference identity that [[http://coreyholms.com/|Corey
    Holms]] has been working on for us. The typeface is the solid [[http://typetrust.com/font/heroiccondensed|Heroic
    Condensed]] family by [[http://typetrust.com/designer/silasdilworth|Silas Dilworth]].\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TC_10_Blog_Full_Type_Edit_6229.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-19 04:40:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Looks like a Towering Smash so far, Grant! :-)
  created: '2010-03-19 04:45:04'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Boom, baby.
  created: '2010-03-19 06:33:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Big Badda Baby Babel Boom!
  created: '2010-03-19 16:13:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It's ironic, given the conference title, that I'm proposing to talk about
    something other than multilingual type design for the first time in over a decade.
  created: '2010-03-19 17:55:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> I'm proposing to talk about something other than multilingual type design
    \r\n\r\nComing down from your ivory TOWER? :-)"
  created: '2010-03-19 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "All the pre-TypeCon stuff that the public sees is often pretty late, nothing
    new or shocking here. No big change in the organization or impending downfall
    needs to be predicted. It's still five months before the conference, as well.\r\n\r\nLast
    year's TypeCon was poorly attended, it's true, but I always assumed that was mostly
    due to the economy, and perhaps secondarily due to being in Atlanta in summer."
  created: '2010-03-20 01:05:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Another reason for the poor attendance might be not knowing anything about
    the conference in a timely manner to decide to make the necessary arrangements
    to get there.
  created: '2010-03-20 02:15:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: James, I heard a lot of comments along those lines myself. Hopefully, this
    year will be better.
  created: '2010-03-20 04:21:43'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  I heard a lot of comments along those lines\r\n\r\nWhose Line Is It Anyway?
    :)"
  created: '2010-03-20 04:31:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Deep down, everybody knows LA is going to rule.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-21 01:10:20'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I personally wait for Dublin; I used to live there. And Montjoy Square: I
    lived a block away. In 1990 two dealers were shoot dead by the gard\xE1, and during
    St Patrick's day someone got kneekapped there.\r\n\r\nThat was in the early '90s.
    Since then that place has changed incredibelly: houses on blocks rebuilt and everything.
    I just hope the spirit of Barrytown and the Commitments still lives on\u2026"
  created: '2010-03-21 01:50:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Did S{o}TA just lose their domain?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typesociety.org/"
  created: '2010-03-21 15:46:55'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: We just renewed it last month. We're looking into the problem.
  created: '2010-03-21 16:26:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "My problem from the beginning with Sota is that it tries to make it's Typecon
    conference be all things to all people. And it fails. \r\n\r\nEveryone who registers
    for a Typecon conference sight unseen, without knowing who is speaking is essentially
    enabling a dysfunctional organization. If that continues, it will never change.\r\n\r\nJust
    my opinion."
  created: '2010-03-22 01:58:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You leave no room for faith?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-22 02:08:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>My problem from the beginning with Sota is that it tries to make
    it's Typecon conference be all things to all people. And it fails.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think that would have been a fair criticism of the first TypeCon I attended, in
    Minneapolis (and the reason why I missed the next few). But I thought that last
    three were excellent and that the conference has found its own focus and balance."
  created: '2010-03-22 02:44:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>My problem from the beginning with Sota is that it tries to make it's
    Typecon conference be all things to all people. And it fails.</cite>\r\n\r\nFive
    days of nerds getting bombed and talking about type isn't a narrow enough demographic?"
  created: '2010-03-22 03:34:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think the problem comes in \"be all things to all people\" combined with
    a single track of programming, so if you're not interested in something, your
    other options are limited. At least during the main conference, anyway.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, I think TypeCon is awesome and always look forward to attending. I
    was really bummed at missing the Buffalo conference due to family medical issues.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-22 06:21:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I love the single track.
  created: '2010-03-22 14:00:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I also like the single track, I don't feel I am missing anything.
  created: '2010-03-22 14:05:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A single track does have its good side though: belonging, immersion. Something
    BTW that was especially evident at the ATypI conference in Mexico City, due to
    that amazing cocoon of a presentation hall. And at the original TypeCon in 1998,
    it really became like some kind of family bonding experience!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-22 14:15:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I much prefer the single-track to multi-track conferences, at which I always
    end up having to make difficult decisions and miss things I really want to hear.
    Sure, there are always a few presentations at TypeCon in which I'm not interested,
    but this generally means that people with similar interests are likely to be hanging
    out in the lobby or the bar at the same time.
  created: '2010-03-22 17:45:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hmmm. Sounds like I am outnumbered on that one! Well, the great thing is
    that with TypeCon you have a single-track conference, and often with ATypI you
    have a two-track conference, so folks of both persuasions can be accommodated.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-23 05:52:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The situation could be summed up with some slightly edited Robert Palmer
    lyrics... \r\n\r\nYou see the font, but you can't read\r\nYou're runnin' at a
    different speed\r\nYour heart beats in double time\r\nAnother TypeCon and you'll
    be mine, a one track mind\r\n\r\nYou can't be saved\r\nATypI is all you crave\r\nIf
    there's some tracks for you\r\nYou don't mind if there are two\r\n\r\nWhoa, you
    like to think that you're immune to the stuff, oh yeah\r\nIt's closer to the truth
    to say you can't get enough\r\nYou know you're gonna have to face it, you're addicted
    to type \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-23 17:05:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: LOL!!! Another great Si Daniels creation :-)
  created: '2010-03-23 17:29:20'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '"its so fine, there''s no telling where the money went."'
  created: '2010-03-23 17:54:35'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Yes, but, Grant, just send out a plain-text E-mail. Send one saying \u201CNo,
    we aren\u2019t dead. Big announcement coming up\u201D; later, send the big announcement.
    No HTML mail, without which phishing wouldn\u2019t exist. If you still want to
    use E-mail, simpler works better <em>in every case</em> and has the added advantage
    of quick turnaround."
  created: '2010-03-24 17:36:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Any news on conference fees, registration or speakers yet?
  created: '2010-03-31 14:53:23'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Registration hasn't been set-up yet, but prices were voted on at yesterday's
    board meeting.\r\n\r\nEarly bird prices (through June 1st):\r\nProfessional (member)
    $295\r\nProfessional (non-member) $250\r\n\r\nStudent (non-member) $165\r\nStudent
    (member) $145"
  created: '2010-04-01 04:08:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: how do I cancel my membership to take advantage of the non-member discount?
    :-)
  created: '2010-04-01 05:46:53'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: ">>In 1990 two dealers were shoot dead by the gard\xE1, and during St Patrick's
    day someone got kneekapped there.\r\n\r\ndont let this put anyone off coming to
    Dublin, kneec(k)apping has been outlawed now. ;-)"
  created: '2010-04-01 11:33:09'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: 'Oops. As Simon noticed, the member and non-member rates for professionals
    should be reversed. I was tired when I posted last night. Sorry. '
  created: '2010-04-01 15:55:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I noticed that too, but was thinking it was an April Fools thing :-)
  created: '2010-04-01 15:59:50'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: I'm looking forward to this year's conference in LA - especially if the registration
    process happens early on enough so that I can get my employer to cover costs.
  created: '2010-04-01 18:19:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"especially if the registration process happens early on enough so that
    I can get my employer to cover costs.\"\r\n\r\nThat is exactly why I started this
    thread. I wanted the SoTA folks to realize the real needs of their constituents.
    I also wanted to emphasize that last years reduced turnout was not mostly due
    to the economy but it was mostly due to tardy registration announcement and proceedings.
    If you have to talk your boss into sending you on his dime, he wants to know in
    time for his budgeting and for someone to cover your work while you are at the
    conference. Bosses want to know, Who, What, Where, and When, How Much and Why
    is it worth the time and money? Simple business decision?, yes but an answer like
    \"it will be great\" but we don't know what \"it\" will be yet does not help sell
    it to the boss. Bosses just think, \"What kind of a Mickey Mouse outfit expects
    me to commit time and money to \"Guess what is behind curtain number 3\""
  created: '2010-04-01 18:36:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Things are picking up:\r\nhttp://typecon.com/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 18:08:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not on the committee, so I'm not privy to any dates.\r\nJust one small
    correction: it's in the second half of August.\r\n\r\nIn any case, I hope you
    can make it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-10 16:10:58'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I guess \"picking up\" is in the eye of the beholder.\r\n\r\nA May 10 deadline
    for submissions for a mid August conference.\r\n\r\nBy the time the program is
    finalized it will be when? Sometime in June?\r\n\r\nDoesn't leave much time to
    plan a summer excursion does it?"
  created: '2010-04-10 16:31:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And why do you hope that?
  created: '2010-04-11 02:00:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know this sounds trite, but: I believe you can add to the conference, even
    as an attendee; and I think you're likely to find it useful and enjoyable. Just
    because you don't like me doesn't mean I don't want you to come; that would be
    very weak and petty of me. All that said, whether it will be \"cost-effective\"
    for you or not, I can't know.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 02:11:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: How do you know I don't like you? We have never met.
  created: '2010-04-11 02:14:11'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "James-\r\n\r\nPlease try to be nice. Your comments are like you're picking
    a fight."
  created: '2010-04-11 02:19:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, sorry if I've misread you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 02:37:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I offer my opinions on what I see as Sota's poor management and Tomi thinks
    I'm trying to pick a fight.\r\n\r\nYou guys gotta get out more."
  created: '2010-04-11 14:02:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...and Tomi thinks I'm trying to pick a fight.\r\n\r\nMe too!\r\n\r\nI mean
    you are after all, criticizing the speed at which volunteers can work for a non-profit
    organization on a conference you would not attend unless invited to speak, even
    if they'd hustled to your schedule and published the full proceedings back in
    January or something. :)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 17:07:59'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I only spoke at one and attended many others. I paid support as a sponsor,
    and was a sustaining member for quite a while.\r\n\r\nCheers to you!"
  created: '2010-04-11 20:19:43'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "\"And why do you hope that?\"\r\n\r\nSounds like picking a fight to me. Not
    sure how else to read that."
  created: '2010-05-24 18:35:29'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "No. \r\n\r\nI don't think It sounds like picking a fight.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-25 01:55:29'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Hey JLT, picking up an old thread, maybe you are the one trying to pick a
    fight, huh?\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-25 03:34:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'First rule of font fight club... '
  created: '2010-05-25 05:13:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "None of this is worth wasting energy on.\r\n\r\nGood luck to all of you."
  created: '2010-05-25 14:23:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Does anyone know who is speaking at TypeCon 2010? If I had a link/list I can
    not find it.
  created: '2010-05-25 15:23:17'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Information is gradually being added to the website:\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/calendar.php"
  created: '2010-05-25 18:06:36'
date: '2010-03-17 22:51:53'
title: Will SoTA soon be defunct?

---
