---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: '.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ae_4838.png] '
comments:
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: the right one.
  created: '2010-03-18 08:34:27'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I too would decidedly prefer the rightmost one. But, of course, there will
    be need to check the angle of the stroke against the rest of the letters.
  created: '2010-03-18 09:19:16'
- author:
    name: olander
  body: "Being a native reader of <em>\xE6</em>, I definitely agree that the right
    one is the best one. After all, from a synchronic point of view, <em>\xE6</em>
    is not a ligature but a single letter."
  created: '2010-03-18 09:50:30'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Nick, go for the right one! That's the version I do the most myself.\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2010-03-18 10:12:39'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Thank you for this.
  created: '2010-03-18 12:55:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I wrestled with a similar question in working on [[http://www.typophile.com/node/50618|Emi]],
    except it has a middle part of /a/ that heads downwards into the stem. FWIW, I
    found similar downward /a/s that forewent the connection to the /e/ crossbar in
    Proxima Nova\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/proximanova_4694.gif]\r\nand
    Wilke\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wilke2_4711.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-18 13:52:36'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Nick... I gotta tell ya I like the left one. The right one, and this is coming
    from a lettering artist, begins to take on the tone of a \"wide\"  or swashy x.
    That was the first thing I saw.\r\n\r\nEdit: It is pretty though."
  created: '2010-03-18 14:14:09'
- author:
    name: begsini
    picture: 110929
  body: Is there no consideration for something in the middle?
  created: '2010-03-18 14:31:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Craig: I\u2019m not a fan of Proxima Nova\u2019s a either, but it\u2019s
    \xE6 is really horrible. \r\n\r\n@Nick: As a Norwegian I\u2019d say the right
    one, at least in a relatively monoline sans (Craig\u2019s example from Wilke does
    indeed work quite well). I second Jarrod\u2019s suggestion of experimenting with
    something inbetween."
  created: '2010-03-18 14:39:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The diagonal crossbar works well in the example shown but may seem odd in
    other typefaces. I don't know if there is only one solution for all typefaces.
  created: '2010-03-18 15:35:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Since legibility is not an issue (as is often the case with a single-story
    a), \xE6sthetics should rule. The rendering on the right flows beautifully and
    naturally."
  created: '2010-03-18 17:21:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I didn't bother with \"something in between\", on the assumption that the
    bowls would be too big. I will try it, though.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThis should probably
    be considered in text, rather than looking at glyphs in isolation.\r\nFrode, can
    you provide us with some \xE6-laden Norwegian text (with plenty of a's and e's
    as well) that would be a suitable testing ground?"
  created: '2010-03-18 17:45:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "There's a whole encyclopedia full of Norwegian text here!\r\nhttp://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/\r\nDanish
    if you'd prefer!\r\nhttp://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/"
  created: '2010-03-18 18:26:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I was hoping for a compact typographic showpiece such as "If five truffles
    offer sufficient flavour."
  created: '2010-03-19 07:02:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The written shape of \u201C\xE6\u201D is drawn in one unabrupted movement,
    thus the crossbar is never broken. Keeping the relationship between \u201Ca\u201D
    and \u201Ce\u201D balanced is also important. Ideally neither should take up more
    space (visually) than the other.\r\n\r\n@Nick: How about: \u201CKj\xE6re vene,
    hvor skal de \xE6rverdige \xE6rfuglene og skj\xE6rene holde hus n\xE5?\u201D?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-19 09:44:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: " \u201CKj\xE6re vene, hvor skal de \xE6rverdige \xE6rfuglene og skj\xE6rene
    holde hus n\xE5?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is a beauty, Frode!"
  created: '2010-03-19 13:32:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>The written shape of \u201C\xE6\u201D is drawn in one unabrupted movement,
    thus the crossbar is never broken. Keeping the relationship between \u201Ca\u201D
    and \u201Ce\u201D balanced is also important. Ideally neither should take up more
    space (visually) than the other.</cite>\r\n\r\nYet in the the other AE thread,
    it seemed the conclusion was that the crossbar of the A and E need not align.\r\n\r\nDifferent
    rules for UC and lc? Or is this just some personal preference?"
  created: '2010-03-19 15:50:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>The written shape of \u201C\xE6\u201D is drawn in one unabrupted movement,
    thus the crossbar is never broken.</em> I\u2019m just saying it\u2019s never broken
    in handwriting. "
  created: '2010-03-19 15:55:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: I would suspect the left one would read quicker in context. Although the right
    one looks more fun and clever, the left one is less distracting to see in a sequence
    of text and so your eye doesn't get stuck there so to speak. I suppose you could
    still keep both if you wanted though. The right one would be perfect for short
    display settings.
  created: '2010-03-19 16:21:33'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "My impression is that the crossbar of \u201C\xC6\u201D also isn't broken
    in most native handwriting. So the handwritten forms are just a guide, and for
    typographic forms different considerations come into play.\r\n\r\nTo risk pointing
    out the obvious, the crossbars of the uppercase letters A and E are almost always
    simple horizontal lines, while this is not the case for the lowercase a and e.
    So it makes sense to me that different rules may be used for the uppercase and
    the lowercase.\r\n\r\nSpeaking as a non-native and not having actually tested
    this, I think I would find both forms of \u201C\xE6\u201D equally readable."
  created: '2010-03-19 16:23:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I like the right one, but it might be more challenging than the left when
    you get into the heaviest weights of the typeface (assuming it has a range of
    weights).\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-19 16:42:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Feel free to question my expertise:) I really have none, apart from nationality
    and type interest.
  created: '2010-03-19 16:58:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Kj\xE6re vene, hvor skal de \xE6rverdige \xE6rfuglene og skj\xE6rene
    holde hus n\xE5?</em>\r\n\r\nNot bad Frode, can you throw in an o-slash? :-)"
  created: '2010-03-19 17:40:21'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Kj\xE6re vene, hva skal de r\xF8de \xE6rverdige \xE6rfuglene og s\xF8te skj\xE6rene
    gj\xF8re p\xE5 \xF8ya n\xE5? :)"
  created: '2010-03-19 18:08:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Excellent, Brian. Where do a South Korean guy in France learn Norwegian?
  created: '2010-03-19 18:17:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, can we see the two options in text? It really isn't possible to judge
    like this, without being able to see how the long diagonal stroke looks in situ.\r\n\r\nMy
    inclination would be to make both the a and e parts narrower, reducing the overall
    width, and then compensate for the reduced counter width by raising the top of
    the bowl of the a and lowering the crossbar of the b. I wouldn't try to make them
    colinear, only closer, such that the counters have a similar area to those in
    the individual letters."
  created: '2010-03-19 18:25:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Kj\xE6re vene, hva skal de r\xF8de \xE6rverdige \xE6rfuglene og s\xF8te
    skj\xE6rene gj\xF8re p\xE5 \xF8ya n\xE5?\"\r\n\r\nand what does it mean?"
  created: '2010-03-19 19:07:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">My inclination would be to make both the a and e parts narrower\r\n\r\nThat
    was going to be my next question ;)\r\n\r\nHere's one I'm working on with narrowed
    a and e:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ae-Mixteca_6285.gif]\r\nHow do
    the proportions seem?"
  created: '2010-03-19 19:22:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The e parts seems a bit wider or more open than the a half, Bendy.
  created: '2010-03-19 19:31:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bendy, your e is optically falling backwards. I'd reconsider that before
    working on the \xE6."
  created: '2010-03-19 19:56:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Frode, I don't speak Norwegian, but I speak some Swedish, and so can make
    some sense of Norwegian text. Coincidentally, I was asked to decipher some Norwegian
    documents at work yesterday, so I had just looked at some online Norwegian-Swedish
    dictionaries. I just randomly inserted some basic words with \xF8 (corresponding
    to Swedish words with \xF6) to your sentence in a way I knew would still probably
    make sense.\r\n\r\nHonestly, I can't tell for sure exactly what the sentence means.
    What does \"vene\" mean? Is it a form of \"venn\" (friend)?\r\n\r\nBendy, I agree
    with Chris and John above; the overall width itself looks okay."
  created: '2010-03-19 22:56:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Chris: It translates to \u201CMy dear, what will the red honourable Common
    Eiders and the cute European Magpies do on the island now?\u201D. I guess those
    birds usually don\u2019t go by their full Wikipedia names :)\r\n\r\n@Brian: \u201CVene\u201D
    comes from \u201Cven\u201D which is an old word for beauty."
  created: '2010-03-20 00:41:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Do Norwegian typographers prefer Venetian old-styles (with the angled crossbar
    of \"e\"), because it makes for a more harmonious \xE6?\r\n\r\nIf there really
    is a problem with just jamming a and e together, then Bembo would not be as popular
    in Norway and Denmark as elsewhere. I wonder if that is the case.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bembo_4104.png]"
  created: '2010-03-20 01:16:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Frode, I can see that sentence is used as commonly in your country as "The
    pen of my aunt, is on the bureau of my uncle" is in France :-)
  created: '2010-03-20 01:27:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aefinal_5260.png]\r\n\r\nHere's a comparison
    of \xE6 treatments in a humanist sans with small bowls in a and e, and horizontal
    crossbars in those characters.\r\n\r\n(1) repeats the shapes of a and e, with
    two crossbars of different heights.\r\n\r\n(2) has a single, angled crossbar,
    and is a narrower, unique character rather than a composite -- but with similar-sized
    bowls (enclosed counters) as a and e.\r\n\r\nWhich do you prefer?\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-20 05:05:33'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Nick, no doubt (at least for me) that the second form is far better, and
    \"more scandinavian\".\r\nIt creates nice flow in the text (which corresponds
    with r by the way).\r\nI am not sure, but maybe you should make the counters a
    bit bigger - since your \xE6 is narrower then it's components? This would change
    the angle a bit... I don't know.\r\nI wonder if the slash in \xF8 could try to
    repeat the angle of v optically (is it possible at all?), because now, the text
    seems to \"get nervous\"."
  created: '2010-03-20 08:58:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Nick: I\u2019m under the impression that there are only a handful typographers/designers
    in Norway that care about such detailed typography. For example: Bembo Book\u2019s
    \u201Cf\u201D is crashing into it\u2019s \u201C\xE5\u201D (it happens a lot),
    and I\u2019ve never seen anyone care about it but me. \r\nI can only answer for
    myself, and I think Bembo\u2019s \u201C\xE6\u201D looks wierd.\r\n\r\nI prefer
    the second example. The sans looks great btw."
  created: '2010-03-20 17:21:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, I think that part of the issue here is that the bowl of your a -- at
    least as rendered in this comparison -- is very small.
  created: '2010-03-20 18:32:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '@Nick: are the counterspaces in your oslash purposefully unequal, or are
    my eyes deceiving me?'
  created: '2010-03-20 18:35:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Marcin, the \xE6 is deliberately narrower than its components. If it were
    wider (and I have tried it that way), then it looks too much like a compromise,
    and not enough like a distinct character. Also, larger bowls make it look too
    \"big\" for the style of the face. \r\n\r\nI don't think it's a good idea to make
    the angle of the o slash slash correspond to that of v, because it makes the bar
    stick out too much at top and bottom, protruding into the extender area.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    the small bowls of a and e are an important part of the design of the typeface,
    and why I posted this thread.\r\n\r\nCraig, your eyes aren't deceiving you, but
    the halves are equal. This is a screen grab from FontLab, so it's not particularly
    accurate."
  created: '2010-03-20 20:57:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The \xE6 can also be problematic in italic, as it can be easily confused
    with \u0153. So some typeface families actually use a two-story 'a' for the \xE6,
    even though the 'a' itself is single-story. Below is Swift.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/swift_italic_3976.png]"
  created: '2010-03-21 07:41:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Nick: To me the second attempt is the better way to do the \xE6 and I also
    prefer the italic \xE6 above showed by Miguel Sousa. "
  created: '2010-03-21 11:04:05'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > The \xE6 can also be problematic in italic, as it can be easily
    confused with \u0153. So some typeface families actually use a two-story 'a' for
    the \xE6, even though the 'a' itself is single-story.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne would
    think this would be desirable. But when I consulted a Danish type designer about
    this very matter some time ago, I was told that the \u201Ctrue italic\u201D form
    was preferred.\r\n\r\nThere are only a few languages where both \xE6 and \u0153
    occur, and I think one usually vastly predominates, so I don\u2019t know how much
    of an actual problem the similarity is.\r\n\r\nI would be interested to hear a
    Finn\u2019s opinion."
  created: '2010-03-21 13:04:36'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>But when I consulted a Danish type designer about this very matter
    some time ago, I was told that the \u201Ctrue italic\u201D form was preferred.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    question is then what should be expected a \"true italic\" to look like. I was
    surprised by the models for handwriting I found in this pdf of the \"Nordisk Id\xE9grupp
    f\xF6r Handskrift\" (<a href=\"http://www.edu.fi/julkaisut/kasialasv.pdf\">pdf</a>
    268K) and in particular by this example:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/handskrift_5468.jpg]\r\nI
    then had the idea to look at Ensched\xE9's Trinit\xE9 italic and here is what
    I saw for \xE6 and \u0153\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/trinite_3651.gif]\r\nNo
    confusion possible!\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-03-21 15:00:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Aha! The single-stroke ae italic!
  created: '2010-03-21 15:33:41'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Both versions are customary:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/letters/lig_ae.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-21 15:37:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>No confusion possible!</em>\r\n\r\nUnless viewed in text matter..."
  created: '2010-03-21 17:53:01'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Unless viewed in text matter...</cite>\r\nYou mean that the blunder
    of writing \"\xE6ufs b\xE9n\xE9dictine\" instead of \"\u0153ufs b\xE9n\xE9dictine\"
    as follows (Arno Pro)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oeufs_4344.jpg]\r\nin
    a menu might pass unnoticed? That needs to be checked.\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-21 19:23:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Dagbladet, one of Norway\u2019s largest newspapers, have at several occations
    used \u201C\u0153\u201D where there should have been an \u201C\xE6\u201D, though
    probably not because they look too similar (they use Whitney from HF&J): That\u2019s
    just how lazy Norwegians are :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-21 20:25:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Frode, It was probably just too cold in Norway that day for accurate proof
    reading :-)
  created: '2010-03-21 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Does Dagbladet use \u201C\u0153\u201D  for \u201C\xE6\u201D in roman or just
    in italics?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-22 11:52:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Roman.
  created: '2010-03-22 12:25:10'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-23 16:38:19'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: "as  Frode says, it's most scandinavian to align the \xE6 strokes, I'm currently
    working on a typeface aimed to scandinavian languages, and I considered this form
    the beginning, so the design of the \"a\" and \"e\" was pretty close."
  created: '2010-03-28 21:15:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm not so sure as I might have seemed.
  created: '2010-03-28 23:27:27'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>My inclination would be to make both the a and e parts narrower,
    reducing the overall width, and then compensate for the</em>[\u2026]</li></ul>\r\nThis
    is more or less standard practice in designing the \u2018double-width\u2019 Cyrillic
    glyphs, e.g.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cyr_Double-Width_Glyphs_6594.png]\r\n(from
    the semantic standpoint no real \u2018doubling\u2019 is taking place in those
    letters\u2014of the kind similar to the <strong>v</strong>/<strong>w</strong>
    relationship; a better analogy in Latin would be the <strong>n</strong>/<strong>m</strong>
    correlation). Speaking of Cyrillic, the problems of designing a credible <strong>\u045A</strong>
    are even worse than with the <strong>\xE6</strong>."
  created: '2010-03-29 00:11:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You mean that the blunder of writing \"\xE6ufs b\xE9n\xE9dictine\" instead
    of \"\u0153ufs b\xE9n\xE9dictine\" as follows (Arno Pro) in a menu might pass
    unnoticed? </em>\r\n\r\nI would think so.\r\nPeople generally read what they expect
    to read.\r\nA Google search of Odsmobile will return healthy numbers.\r\nThe famous
    Wayne Gretkzy jersey is in the Hockey Hall of Fame, and most visitors don't notice
    anything amiss until they read the description.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ept_sports_nhl_experts-721453150-1233844914_6155.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 16:47:29'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>People generally read what they expect to read.</cite>\r\n\r\nI know
    and it took me some time to see the trouble with \"Gretkzy\". On the other hand,
    if someone writes Montr\xE8al instead of Montr\xE9al, I see the mistake right
    away and in general I find mistyped French accents in English publications quite
    disturbing. With diacritics, we don't seem to see what we are expected to read,
    and we can in fact be quite demanding, though they tend to be relatively small.
    \r\n\r\nWith \u0153 there is an additional difficulty that makes the question
    more interesting. Contrary to \xE6 where it seems that students are taught to
    write the character in a single stroke, I was never taught to write \u0153 in
    any special way, as a single character. I don't think that students neither in
    Qu\xE9bec, nor in France, are taught to write \u0153 differently than oe, i.e.
    as two separate letters. The distinction is, so far as I know, introduced only
    in carefully edited texts; it is typographical. When you receive a file filled
    with \u0153, you can almost be sure they were put there by Word or some other
    text editor, while typing. There is no \u0153 character on the keyboard. As a
    consequence, we are not trained to recognize that character, and it is thus not
    obvious  that the Arno Pro Italic \"\xE6uf\" would not be judged acceptable by
    many customers.  I would thus feel like experimenting and establishing statistics
    to see what percentage of people would see no problem with \xE6ufs in Arno Pro
    Italic. I don't think we use the same mechanism as when we read \"Gretzky\" when
    it is written \"Gretkzy\"."
  created: '2010-03-29 21:16:35'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "For a non trained reader, the Hebrew letters \u05DB and \u05D1 may look alike;
    similarly for \u05D3 and \u05E8 . I wonder how many Israelis  see no mistake if
    one letter in those pairs is replaced by the other.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 22:02:02'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I think you should ask this someone who actually has to read this glyph because
    of his language and since olander already did so, I'd say your done. Could you
    start a topic on that first sans-serif? I really like it. Gives me the same feeling
    as The Sans by Lucasfonts, which is one my all-time favourites.
  created: '2010-07-19 21:54:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Back on topic: I think I might have changed my mind (at least to some extent)
    on the \xE6. Disconnected could work, but I would advice against it in display
    faces."
  created: '2010-07-19 22:28:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Could you start a topic on that first sans-serif? I really like it.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\nIt's
    <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/globenews.html\">one of the faces</a> I designed
    for <em>The Globe and Mail</em> in 2007. I'll be releasing it commercially very
    soon, so will post an announcement in the Release forum, and probably make it
    a Featured Face too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 22:37:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And I'd like to add that a venetian \xE6 might benefit from a diagonal connection
    from low left to high right."
  created: '2010-07-19 22:54:29'
date: '2010-03-18 07:31:21'
node_type: forum
title: "\xE6"

---
