---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "Foundries and designers: In the aftermath of Web Fontfonts and Typekit, are
  you planning to release your typefaces for licensing as EOT/WOFF? If so \u2014 when?
  Which licensing path will you follow (an annual fee, or a one-time payment) and
  to what extent will the fonts be hinted? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm in no rush.\r\nStill haven't converted all my back catalog to OpenType
    yet."
  created: '2010-03-21 23:12:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "That\u2019s a shame, Nick. I\u2019d love to be able to specify Bodoni Egyptian
    in my font stacks."
  created: '2010-03-21 23:30:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: For the time being, I am relying on FontSpring as a distributor to handle
    production and distribution of webfonts. I see no reason why licensing should
    be handled any differently from the way "regular" fonts are; and, given the low-res
    environment in which webfonts will be displayed, I don't see any need for special
    or additional hinting.
  created: '2010-03-21 23:35:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry Frode, I'm half way through updating Bodoni Egyptian to OpenType (and
    have been for several years).\r\nThat means small caps and alternate figures (osf,
    lining, superiors & inferiors) for all styles.\r\nAdding Light Italic, and filling
    out the Latin character set.\r\nPerhaps it would make more sense to scrap that
    and webbify the basic legacy fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-21 23:52:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Nick Shinn: \r\nWhy scrap it? \r\n\r\n@Nick Curtis: \r\n\u201C [\u2026]
    given the low-res environment in which webfonts will be displayed, I don't see
    any need for special or additional hinting.\u201D \r\nI can\u2019t make heads
    or tails of this."
  created: '2010-03-22 00:42:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why scrap it?</em>\r\n\r\nI would rather work on adding typographic features
    than hinting.\r\nHowever, from a business perspective, it may make more sense
    to not bother with small caps and alternate figures, etc., and work on hinting
    basic fonts for web use."
  created: '2010-03-22 01:43:51'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>and to what extent will the fonts be hinted?</cite>\r\n\r\nHow much
    are you willing to pay? \r\n\r\nAs long as the browser and OS manufacturers keep
    placing the hinting burden on the type designer, this whole web fonts thing is
    going to take a very long time."
  created: '2010-03-22 01:45:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As long as the browser and OS manufacturers keep placing the hinting
    burden on the type designer, this whole web fonts thing is going to take a very
    long time.</em>\r\n\r\nI think for a lot of foundries, largescale offerings of
    webfont licenses won't make sense until the major browsers provide decent rendering
    for CFF OpenType fonts. The good news is that both IE9 and an unspecified upcoming
    FireFox release (already in testing) will use DirectWrite rendering on Windows
    instead of the old, crap GDI PS rasteriser. Of course, the availability of browsers
    that display CFF fonts well on Windows won't automatically translate into the
    majority of users upgrading to these browsers, but the lack of such display in
    current browsers causes a major bottleneck for webfont licensing. Simply put,
    most foundries don't have the resources to convert entire libraries to TTFs. So
    as we've seen with FontShop, foundries might initially offer only a limited selection
    of fonts for web licensing: meaning, of course, making guesses or conducting customer
    surveys to find out which fonts have a market for web use."
  created: '2010-03-22 02:40:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John H wrote: <cite>Simply put, most foundries don't have the resources to
    convert entire libraries to TTFs.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wonder if what he actually meant
    was, \"most foundries don't have the resources to convert entire libraries to
    TTFs <em>with manual hinting</em>\"?\r\n\r\nConverting to TTF isn't hard and can
    be completely automated, though testing would be a bit time-consuming. Getting
    better hinting than auto-hinting is the hard thing to do and makes the timeline
    much worse.\r\n\r\nDirectWrite does a pretty fabulous job of rendering auto-hinted
    TTFs as well as CFF. I think auto-hinted TTFs will be more common than CFFs for
    online use in the next five years, because they will render about as well as CFFs
    in near-future Windows browsers, and they won't suck nearly so much as CFFs in
    old Windows browsers.\r\n\r\nEverything looks quite passable (though never fabulous,
    IMO), on the Mac, btw.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-03-22 06:18:22'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I'm waiting for font distributors to support the formats. One time payment.
    I'm more of a headline type outfit so no manual hinting but I may get into it
    for some text families.
  created: '2010-03-22 07:56:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Thomas Phinney and all:\r\n\r\nI spent considerable time with the IE9 Preview
    over the past few days. The future of text rendering on Windows can be seen easily
    by anybody who downloads it AND is using nothing earlier than Vista SP2. (And
    therein lies the rub. XP users are 66% of Windows users. Reduced to marginality
    in five years? I don't think so.)\r\nI will be posting some screenshots on my
    <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">blog</a>.\r\nI'm very impressed with DirectWrite.
    If it looks good, it is good. And it looks damned good. I'm \"profoundly wowed\"
    - as Tim Gunn puts it on Project Runway.\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney wrote: <em>I think
    auto-hinted TTFs will be more common than CFFs for online use in the next five
    years, because they will render about as well as CFFs in near-future Windows browsers,
    and they won't suck nearly so much as CFFs in old Windows browsers.</em>\r\nMore
    common? Does a choice really exist?\r\n\r\nAlso on my blog, today, is a makeover
    of a <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/fontface/tenfree/tengreat.htm\">page</a>
    - with the fonts converted to TTFs and viewable in IE - called Ten Great Free
    Fonts that was originally published using <em>only</em> OTF CFF fonts (by Ralf
    Herrmann).\r\nThe conversions were done using TypeTool 3. I also added autohinting
    using TypeTool 3.($99). It takes me about 3 minutes to convert and autohint a
    font. (That's not rhetorical, I timed it - 3 minutes, tops.)\r\nResults vary from
    font to font. But it is a one-click operation. I'm training one of my Yorkshire
    Terriers to assist me. And for some fonts, the results are quite acceptable overall.
    Of course a professional grade tool like Fontlab offers more finely-graded options
    for auto-hinting. I'm not yet proficient enough to get a handle on how long an
    acceptable job would take in FontLab but maybe you could help me out with a estimation.\r\n(During
    the brouhaha over Boing Boing's experience with <a href=\"http://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/10/boing-boing-redesign-uncovers-web-font-ignorance/\">web
    fonts</a>, concerning the problems with the font BPreplay, regarding possible
    solutions you posted:\r\n<em>Somebody who knows what they\u2019re doing could
    spend ten minutes and either fix the font\u2019s hinting...</em>\r\nSo, I guess
    the question is, how long would it take on average? Is the requisite facility
    with auto-hinting a part of most type designer's skill set?\r\nIs there a step-by-step
    procedure that one could document that would lead, in most cases, to an acceptably
    hinted TTF?\r\nFontlab's documentation is helpful, but more all-purpose, untargeted.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-03-22 15:22:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > But it is a one-click operation. I'm training one of my Yorkshire
    Terriers to assist me.</cite>\r\n\r\nRich, wouldn\u2019t they be better suited
    to generating WOFFs? ;-)"
  created: '2010-03-22 16:51:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I'm very disappointed. Could you <a href=\"http://www.walmart.com/ip/Pigs-Ears-Natural-Dog-Chews-100-Count-Dogs/3635736?sourceid=1500000000000003260550&ci_src=14110944&ci_sku=3635736\">
    change </a> their diet?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-22 17:03:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, showing fonts at giant sizes is hardly a good indicator of how well
    they render on screen. Of course, most of the \u2018Ten Great Free Fonts\u2019
    are display types, so might be expected to be used at larger sizes, but to me
    this simply means that they are ignorable. If the goal is \u2018readable web\u2019,
    then text fonts at text sizes need to be the focus of attention. So let's reduce
    the size of your examples, cut out all but those fonts that might conceivably
    be used at text sizes, and see what we're left with [FireFox 3.6; Windows Vista
    SP2]:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/10gff_4259.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe convenient
    failure of Vollkorn and its replacement by Verdana makes the comparison all the
    more telling."
  created: '2010-03-22 17:31:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "PS. On the subject of \u2018readable web\u2019, I was highly amused by Richard
    Rutter's syntax showcasing Fertigo Pro. What if I don't want to be grabbed with
    both hands?"
  created: '2010-03-22 17:37:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-22 17:40:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Nick: \r\nHave you considered just releasing the core weights (reg, italic,
    bold, bold italic)? That\u2019s probably what most people would buy anyway. It
    won\u2019t be such a big investment, leaving financial room for an upgrade later.\r\n\r\n@James:
    \r\n<em>How much are you willing to pay?</em>\r\nI just realized the Web Fontfonts
    must be licensed per domain/business. I understand the additional payment for
    large scale corporations, but depriving the designer of the possibility to fund
    fonts over multiple projects is \u2013 IMHO \u2013 a bad idea. \r\n\r\nI personally
    think the price range should be about 3/4 the price of print fonts, or 1/2 the
    price if you\u2019ve already licensed the print fonts. "
  created: '2010-03-23 09:14:53'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I just realized the Web Fontfonts must be licensed per domain/business.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    just by page-views. You can use them for multiple projects - just like a stock
    image from iStockphoto. \r\n"
  created: '2010-03-23 12:29:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Ralf: From the <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/blog/?p=1661&utm_source=NewsletterFeb2410&utm_medium=web&utm_content=LearnMore&utm_term=em&utm_campaign=FF52Web\">Fontblog</a>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Question:</strong>
    I\u2019m not clear about the licensing. Does this mean that the licences are only
    sold to organisations that own/operate a website? As a freelance designer, does
    that mean that every one of my clients has to buy a separate licence to use for
    their websites? Or does the licence somehow allow me to set up websites for a
    number of clients under my own licence?\r\n\r\n<em><strong>Answer:</strong> The
    Web FontFont license applies to the the organization whose websites will be implementing
    the fonts. Your first question is correct: each of your clients will need their
    own licensing for use on their websites, depending on their number of monthly
    pageviews. The \u201CUser\u201D would be your client, even if you as the designer
    are the one writing the CSS.</em>"
  created: '2010-03-23 14:17:13'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I am very interested into this discussion. But not as a developer like you
    guys, but as a user and owner of web sites. Yesterday I started a discussion about
    it on my own blog.\r\n\r\nSome questions, please:\r\n\r\n\u2014 What about the
    security? As I understand, right now its very easy to copy the font, which is
    used with font face.\r\n\r\n\u2014 Do you expect web versions of all (new and
    existing) fonts as a kind of general feature within the next years?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    Do you see your new options to earn money with font face technology? E.g. I am
    using Futura book for all printed material of my company. And I'ld love to see
    Paul Renners Futura on my websites, too. Yes, I'ld be willing to pay for it.\r\nHow
    much more will it be interesting for larger companies with their own fonts?\r\n\r\n\u2014
    Could it be, that the foundries itself are not too interested into this feature?
    As I understand, IE is theoretically offering this feature since 1999 with IE
    5.0. Why did not see someone this big choice?\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-23 17:59:21'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "@Frode\r\nI was told differently from the head of marketing at FSI itself.
    I don\u2019t know how this should work. If I wan\u2019t to suggest a couple of
    webfonts to a client I can\u2019t license them all in the client\u2019s name first.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n@Georg\r\nYou are new to this topic. But your question aren\u2019t.
    Check Typophile for \"@font-face\" and \xBBwebfonts\xAB. All your questions will
    be answered.  "
  created: '2010-03-24 07:14:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019d love to get some clear answers on this one."
  created: '2010-03-24 09:13:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Regarding FontFonts, the licensing situation was discussed/explained in this
    thread: http://typophile.com/node/67790\r\n\r\nIf I understood Ivo's explanation
    over there correctly (scroll down to his second post of March 1), the deal is
    that the fonts be licensed in the client's name, who can then use them for all
    their web sites. So given that you as the designer originally license them when
    you start working on a web site, once you hand over the code to the client the
    font license (along with the cost) can be transferred to the client as well, which
    of course means that you then don't have the fonts anymore. (I'll gladly stand
    corrected if I've mixed up things again.)"
  created: '2010-03-24 11:56:56'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "I guess that makes sense. There are no domain limitation, as long as all
    of them belong to the license owner. \r\nStill, it\u2019s not quite clear: who
    \xBBowns\xAB a website anyway?"
  created: '2010-03-24 16:05:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Sadly that means you\u2019ll need to license a new typeface for each project
    (unless you do multiple websites for one client). Essentially what you get for
    the money is much less than with print fonts."
  created: '2010-03-24 22:10:33'
- author:
    name: designpuck
  body: '[following]'
  created: '2010-03-24 23:22:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode, no, what this means is that it is your client who is licensing the
    webfonts, not you. They, after all, are the ones who are serving the font to readers
    of their online content. You're just writing code for them.\r\n\r\nI suspect that
    if you were offering multiple clients a full service that includes web hosting
    and serving, then you could make the case that you only need a single license,
    just as you would to create print material for multiple clients. But FontShop's
    model appears to be licensing on the basis of who owns the website not who serves
    the font displayed on that website."
  created: '2010-03-25 02:15:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Essentially what you get for the money is much less than with print fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    design/development of a site does end however, with the writing of the code that
    defines the web site. \r\nSo, unlike in print, all the production, manufacture
    and delivery of the typography is done by the foundry. \r\nHow much would that
    cost in print?\r\n\r\n>Still, it\u2019s not quite clear: who \xBBowns\xAB a website
    anyway?\r\nIt is difficult not to wonder, having considered the purchase of more
    than 100 domain names in the last 4 years, what kind of question this is.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-25 11:12:40'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>FontShop's model appears to be licensing on the basis of who owns the
    website not who serves the font displayed on that website.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain:
    Who is that? Admin-C? Tech-C?\r\nWe usually design and host our client\u2019s
    websites. Do we need one license for all of them or one for every client?\r\nWhat
    if I use one domain to host all of the fonts for several clients?"
  created: '2010-03-25 12:25:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@John: The cost of fonts will always be transfered down to my clients anyhow,
    but the fact that one license covers only one client (website owner) means what
    you get for the money is way less.\r\n\r\n@David: I\u2019m not sure if I understand
    what you\u2019re saying here. Both print fonts and web fonts are manufactured,
    produced and delivered to the person buying the license in virtually the same
    manner. "
  created: '2010-03-25 12:54:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Again: Who is that?</em>\r\n\r\nYou'll have to ask FontShop how <em>they</em>
    define ownership. I'd say that a website is owned by the entity that claims the
    domain and the content as a direct asset.\r\n\r\nI suppose there will be cases
    in which it isn't obvious to a casual observer who owns what, but that is one
    reason why contracts exist: to clarify who owns what. In some situations, much
    will depend on the corporate structure of the client and who exactly within that
    structure is contracting the licensing of a webfont and then where that webfont
    is used. Let's say a corporation has a number of independently operating subsidiaries.
    If the client is one of those subsidiaries, and that is the entity licensing the
    webfont, then only sites owned by that subsidiary may use the font. Now, let's
    say the parent company licenses the webfont; does that mean that it can be used
    on all the websites of all the subsidiary companies? Not necessarily -- and in
    fact probably not --, because those websites are direct assets of the subsidiaries
    and only indirect assets of the parent company.\r\n\r\n<em>Both print fonts and
    web fonts are manufactured, produced and delivered to the person buying the license
    in virtually the same manner.</em>\r\n\r\nI think what David is pointing out is
    that in print media the designer determines the typography of a fixed text; whereas
    on the web a font determines the typography of a dynamic text in a way that a)
    is only partially determined by the designer and b) relies on the presence of
    the font not as a layed out display of glyphs but as a functioning piece of software
    in the hypertext delivery mechanism. In print, the typography is done long before
    the job actually hits the presses. On the web, the typography is being done on-the-fly.
    Put another way, a web designer isn't doing typography at all, except at the most
    macro level: he or she is defining the framework within which typography happens.\r\n\r\nI'm
    following the CSS3 spec development quite closely, and although it puts a *lot*
    more typographic tools in the hands of web designers, I think the basic distinction
    between print/static typography and web/dynamic typography remains. It is a distinction
    of when and where the laying out of text happens."
  created: '2010-03-25 19:23:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "What\u2019s with all this nitpicking? You deliver the fonts in just the same
    fashion, there\u2019s just a bit more technical work needed. Do you expect Microsoft
    Word users to pay more as well, just because they don\u2019t threat the text like
    a professional typographer would? \r\n\r\nThe bottom line is: If you license a
    typeface you expect to be able to use it for any project you\u2019d like, without
    extra payment."
  created: '2010-03-25 20:31:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Forgive me. I guess I\u2019m digging my own pit here, getting all worked
    up over this stuff. I don\u2019t mean to come across this aggressive."
  created: '2010-03-25 20:34:21'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "? I don't see the problem. It's not like you (as the typographer) are paying
    for the font and then poof, it's gone. The idea is the <em>client</em> licenses
    the font (and pays for it), which I guess makes sense since as the font is served
    from their web site, they're technically the ones \"using\" it. I think this was
    the point that John was making: As a web designer, you don't actually \"use\"
    the fonts, you just install them and then they're rendered in the technical environment
    that the client runs / pays for / is responsible for. So ideally you end up spending
    zero on fonts, which sounds pretty good to me.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The cost of fonts
    will always be transfered down to my clients anyhow, but the fact that one license
    covers only one client (website owner) means what you get for the money is way
    less.\"</cite>\r\nDoes this mean that if you license, say, a $250 family and use
    it in 3 projects (in print work I mean), you calculate the full $250 for each
    of these 3 clients? If so, wow."
  created: '2010-03-25 21:36:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What if I use one domain to host all of the fonts for several clients?\r\nTypekit
    happens.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-25 21:50:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The bottom line is: If you license a typeface you expect to be able
    to use it for any project you\u2019d like, without extra payment</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    what? Your expectations are not what determines how type is licensed. Type designers
    decide how type is licensed. If you don\u2019t feel that web fonts are not worth
    licensing on the terms type designers offer then you\u2019re free to keep using
    Georgia, Verdana, Arial, Times, etc.. But I think you\u2019ll quickly find it
    easier to convince the clients to spend a little on web font licenses than it
    is to convince them that a web site built with system fonts is going to look great
    in 2012."
  created: '2010-03-25 22:12:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">As a web designer, you don't actually \"use\" the fonts, you just install
    them...\r\n\r\nNot to be exclusively contrary... but the designer doesn't install
    them, and does actually use them. \r\n\r\n>You deliver the fonts in just the same
    fashion, there\u2019s just a bit more technical work needed.\r\n\r\nI just said
    no, that's not the case. John explained well as well. \r\n\r\n>So what? \r\nI
    would say: \"Say What!!?\" \r\n\r\n>The bottom line is: If you license a typeface
    you expect to be able to use it for any project you\u2019d like, without extra
    payment.\r\n\r\nObviously Frank doesn't mean that if \"you\" are Jumbo MacroMedia
    International, when you license a typeface (1 cpu, $40), that you expect to be
    able to bundle it with hardware x, or software y and ship it to 100s of 1,000s
    of x product users without further payment. \r\n\r\nBut this is for sure: I, and
    many many others, spent a good decade helping to ensure that the design of fonts
    was not some scary or exclusive province of wizards with million-dollar machines.
    So, I think <em>my</em> bottom line is staying on: if you <strong>design</strong>
    a typeface, you will to be able to use it for any project you\u2019d like. \r\n\r\nBeside
    the facts that I am aware of regarding format, glyph repertoire, sizing, scaling,
    rendering, permitting and recommending, I am aware that there are also issues
    in defining owner, user, designer, licensee, white and black. So, in delivering
    our lively and dynamic products to potentially millions of users for long periods
    of time, and at costs fair in the market for serving web assets, I enjoy this
    conversation.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-25 22:53:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>\u201CDoes this mean that if you license, say, a $250 family and use
    it in 3 projects (in print work I mean), you calculate the full $250 for each
    of these 3 clients? If so, wow.\u201D</em>\r\nIf I license a $250 family the price
    over three projects is roughly $83 per project. A $250 Web Font Font family is
    $250 per project \u2014 and in that manner more expensive (for the client, yes,
    but still).\r\n\r\n@David & James: I\u2019m generalizing. I don\u2019t expect
    to be able to do <em>everything</em> with a typeface I\u2019ve licensed. I suspect
    my expectations are shared with many other designers, something font sellers should
    consider. "
  created: '2010-03-26 10:32:01'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "Frank, it seems the issue that you're struggling with is in who owns & pays
    for the license. \r\n\r\nWhen a designer buys a print license, they own the license
    to use for any print project. Now, they may choose to charge that fee to a client
    (or not), but ultimately the licensee is the designer.\r\n\r\nHowever, when it
    comes to webfonts, the owner of the license is the client. They are the ones using
    it and who need the ongoing usage of that typeface. Thus, the fee is paid completely
    by the client and while a designer (or developer) may use the typeface for development
    purposes, the license is transfered over at the conclusion of the project. In
    this case, it seems that the designer <strong>cannot</strong> use the font for
    any future projects because they no longer own the license. \r\n\r\nAt the end
    of the day, clients are forced to pay more, but they are also the ones using the
    webfonts, so it makes sense?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-26 19:47:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I suspect my expectations are shared with many other designers, something
    font sellers should consider.</cite>\r\n\r\nI am sure that you are correct about
    that. But designers will get over it."
  created: '2010-03-26 20:09:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Aaron: I understand how it works, I just think maybe it would be better if
    it worked differently :) '
  created: '2010-03-26 20:44:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I suspect my expectations are shared with many other designers, something
    font sellers should consider.\r\n\r\nI agree Frank. But I'm having trouble figuring
    out how it's more expensive for anyone. I mean, it's more expensive than using
    Verdana and Times, but it's not more expensive than having X-number of copies
    of a commercial font in a multi-cpu enterprise, using that asset to develop print
    materials that then need tons of physical assets and labor to get to market, is
    it?\r\n\r\nWith regards to the process, in many of these schemes the web designer
    has the ability to register at any or all of the forthcoming web font hot spots,
    and when a client calls, the designer can spring into action and test license
    some fonts that meet the clients needs, direct the client to the designer's development
    site where the client can make or not make a preliminary decision before the trial
    period ends, but at any time, the client can extend the trial period by test licensing
    the same font themselves. \r\n\r\nOnce the decision's been made, the client can
    decide how to license the font for their web use, to self-serve or not, as the
    font licensor offers, and the designer can either continue with the client's needs,
    using the client's links to the fonts, or go on to the next client via the exact
    same process. At any time during the trial period, the designer and client can
    take screen captures of the work, and they themselves or trial users can examine
    the site in as many live environments as they wish.\r\n\r\nAt no time in this
    process does the designer, client or user need to worry about html, font formats,
    sub-setting, serving, or keeping track of possibly hundreds of font files.\r\n\r\nSo,
    what exactly do you wish worked differently?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-26 22:44:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "A lot of corporations never license the typeface they use in their print
    material \u2013 the designer does all the work and he/she is the one licensing
    it.\r\n\r\nLook, the only thing I\u2019m trying to point out is that the web font
    licensing scheme removes the possibility to fund fonts over multiple projects.
    I think that\u2019s a bad idea! \r\nHow many times haven\u2019t young designers
    and students scared off by the price tag been pointed out to that a purchase pays
    off over time in these forums?\r\n\r\nA trial definitely sounds like a great thing,
    btw."
  created: '2010-03-27 14:42:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "But Frode, you're apparently still missing the fact that it is not the designer
    but the client who is licensing the webfont. There is no issue of paying off a
    font license over multiple projects (unless they are for the same client), because
    the webfont is part of the project deliverables, not something used to make the
    project that stays with the designer.\r\n\r\nOf course, this is something that
    designers are going to need to explain to their clients, and hopefully this is
    an area in which webfont vendors can cooperate and help designers by e.g. providing
    materials that help make it easy for designers to explain webfont licensing to
    clients.\r\n\r\nThere's going to be a lot of web design client presentations sounding
    like this: \u2018This is what your website looks like using the served webfonts
    we selected, at <em>x</em> cost to you in licensing fees. And here is what your
    website looks like in Verdana.\u2019"
  created: '2010-03-27 17:49:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I do understand :) I just think maybe we shouldn't think of web fonts like
    that. Sending a pdf document using a font to my clients is not very different
    from uploading the files for a website to some server. The main difference is
    that there's an actual transfer of font files, but they cannot be used for anything
    but a website anyway (hence the WOFF-format).\r\n\r\nWhat if a designer hosts
    fonts on their own server, sort of like how Typekit works?"
  created: '2010-03-27 18:28:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Sending a pdf document using a font to my clients is not very different
    from uploading the files for a website to some server.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo what?
    What matters is not how designers would like to think about fonts. What matters
    is how font designers can profit from licensing fonts. Your arguments all come
    the the perspective of web designers who are too lazy or cheap to want to deal
    with web fonts that do not offer unlimited use. That\u2019s not a client worth
    the time of most font vendors to entertain. We need to focus on ways to derive
    income from the clients who understand how small the cost of web fonts will be
    in almost any web project and pay up without whining about it."
  created: '2010-03-27 19:35:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode: <em>Sending a pdf document using a font to my clients is not very
    different from uploading the files for a website to some server.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    about as different a situation as I can conceive of involving the same font: in
    a PDF, an embedded font is a carrier format for a bunch of glyphs layed out in
    static, pre-typeset text; in a website, a served webfont is a piece of software
    actively typesetting dynamic text.\r\n\r\n<em>What if a designer hosts fonts on
    their own server, sort of like how Typekit works?</em>\r\n\r\nGo ask the individual
    foundry. You might be able to make a deal on these grounds, or they might refer
    you to use an existing service (such as Typekit), or they might insist that you
    use their own service (such as Typotheque)."
  created: '2010-03-27 20:09:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What if a designer hosts fonts on their own server, sort of like how Typekit
    works?\r\n\r\nThe way web hosting works is that either everything is free or,
    industrial-strength serving's required for just one successful site, and sans
    expansion, there are only a very few hosts capable of serving multiple-to-hundreds
    of successful sites.\r\n\r\nSo, if a web design entity wishes to host what no
    browser company, OS-maker, web-based googleplex or foundry has determined to be
    time-wise for the user or business-prudent... be my guest: what you're saying,
    is all you'd need according to your plan is fonts and Fink's thing and the world
    would be at your feet. Beat your feet more likely.\r\n\r\n>[pdf] It's about as
    different a situation as I can conceive of [from e.g. eot] involving the same
    font  \r\nwelcome to my witness list!:) \r\n\r\nand in contrasting pdf and web
    fonts, don't forget the vastly more familiar user experience of pdf, with whose
    zoom you become, simply and effectively, the cameraperson? while in the browser's
    'zoom' the users become The Unwilling Typographer? how did those two things ever
    be construed as the same?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-27 23:40:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>while in the browser's 'zoom' the users become The Unwilling Typographer</em>\r\n\r\nOh
    surely it isn't as good as that. Given that a) different browsers zoom differently
    and b) different websites zoom differently even in the same browser, the user
    is more like the person standing at the table while the roulette wheel goes round
    and round, wondering if it makes any sense at all to make a bet."
  created: '2010-03-28 04:07:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>\"Your arguments all come from the perspective of web designers who are
    too lazy or cheap to want to deal with web fonts that do not offer unlimited use.\"</em>\r\nI
    should be able to suggest a different solution without someone telling me I'm
    lazy and cheap. \r\n\r\nTo the rest of you: Those are good arguments. Perhaps
    this thread will contribute to make the reasons behind the web font licensing
    models more clear."
  created: '2010-03-28 23:42:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "It's not about you, Frode. \r\nThat's actually the entire point. The licensing
    model is made, it's here, \r\nwhether or not you personally would have done it
    this way. And there are\r\nreasons for it. What gives?\r\nI mean it should be
    more constructive to start discussing, for example, how web designers can fit
    this into their workflow, how we can \"sell\" the idea of licensing fonts to our
    clients, etc., than to keep debating whether the whole thing wouldn't have to
    be done entirely differently, a debate that has indeed been going on for quite
    a while\u2026 and is finally coming to a conclusion."
  created: '2010-03-28 23:44:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Sorry Nina, I edited my post just before you posted. The FontFont EULA wasn't
    very clear to me at first, and that's partially why I posted this thread. The
    other, and biggest, reason was that I want to know if type designers are following
    up the new technology, and also how they'll do it. The whole thread went off topic
    with all the aggressive replies.
  created: '2010-03-28 23:49:50'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: If you guys do go WOFF/EOT, don't skimp on the charsets. Some of you designers
    only include rudimentary charsets for your WOFF typefaces, even to the point where
    its less than half of the glyphs included in the OTF version. Don't be a cheapass.
  created: '2010-03-29 06:34:06'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "(^ I suspect this user is abusing Typophile badge \u2014 note for moderators.)"
  created: '2010-03-29 07:55:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Surely full char-sets would make for slower page downloads. What could your
    motivation be in asking for larger character sets? \r\n\r\n>Occupation\r\n>Font
    Pirate\r\n\r\nOh, I see...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-29 19:25:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'VBM - The reason WOFF/EOT files have a limited character set isn''t to be
    cheap - it is to be fast. On the web you have two things - the quick, and the
    dead. You can often get special versions with extra glyphs if you ask for them.
    But it is assumed, correctly I think, that when you use a font of a GIF or a PNG
    on the web it had better be as absolutely fast as possible. '
  created: '2010-03-29 22:43:22'
date: '2010-03-21 21:34:22'
node_type: forum
title: Are you planning EOT/WOFF releases?

---
