---
author:
  name: russellm
  picture: 111614
body: "Is 'w' a ligature.\r\n\r\n:o)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: If not how about the VW logo?
  created: '2010-03-22 20:30:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: No, but it used to be.
  created: '2010-03-22 20:59:06'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "\"The earliest form of the letter W was a doubled V used in the 5th century
    by the earliest writers of Old English; it is from this [uu] digraph that the
    modern name \"double U\" comes.\"\r\n\r\nWhich doesn't really explain the \"double
    <strong>U</strong>\", does it?\r\n\r\nThis, and more interesting facts, on <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W\">Wikipedia:W</a>."
  created: '2010-03-22 21:11:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: FWIW, I think all the romance languages call it a "double v."
  created: '2010-03-22 21:22:16'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> FWIW, I think all the romance languages call it a \"double v.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    Real Academia Espa\xF1ola\u2019s dictionary gives these names: \u201Cuve doble\u201D,
    \u201Cve doble\u201D, \u201Cdoble ve\u201D. \r\nIn Mexico, the preferred name
    is \u201Cdoble u\u201D."
  created: '2010-03-22 21:54:35'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "In French it's double v\r\nThing is V doubled as a U before the U was invented\r\n[[http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/mOd87HI02Dn_B6IMh2h8aA?authkey=Gv1sRgCKuz0NPTgcajRA]]\r\nThis
    reads: TOULOUSE A DEDIE A DEODAT DE SEVERAC CE JARDIN OU IL AIMA"
  created: '2010-03-22 22:36:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Forget Wiki: here's the OED's take:\r\n\r\n\"the twenty-third letter of the
    modern Eng. alphabet, originating from a <strong>ligature</strong> [emphasis added]
    of the Roman letter represented by <em>U</em> and <em>V</em>...The sound was at
    first represented by <em>uu</em>, but in OE [Old English] and early ME [Middle
    English] the runic character wen [&#447;]was widely used, this in turn being replaced
    in ME by the ligature <em>w</em>."
  created: '2010-03-22 22:40:00'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "So is it a <em>digraph</em> -- a unique character of its own, composed of
    two individually existing characters (I'm making this definition up right now)
    -- or a <em>ligature</em> -- an aesthetically pleasing way of representing two
    or more characters, without touching their meaning?\r\n\r\n\xC6 and \u0153 (and
    perhaps the modern Interrobang \u203D and -- discussed before -- Dutch \u0133)
    are digraphs. \uFB01, \uFB04, and \uFB06 are ligatures in some fonts, and not
    in others (and in the case of \uFB06, only in some circumstances).\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    this difference is just semantics, in case all forms predate the use of these
    terms..."
  created: '2010-03-22 23:10:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Digraph or ligature? Could also be a <em>diphthong</em>...
  created: '2010-03-22 23:13:59'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: It's not a diphthong, but it has, in succession, been a digraph, then a ligature,
    and now a single character.
  created: '2010-03-22 23:39:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It actually appears in the 1rst century. Re: Humez, ABC ETC.\r\n\r\nTake
    a look at the \"Trajan\" column and that should give you some clues!"
  created: '2010-03-23 00:21:12'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Let's clear up the terminology. There are established definitions for these
    terms that are quite precise.\r\n\r\n<em>Digraph</em> has a more usual meaning
    of two characters that as a pair are used for something more than one would expect
    from a simple sequence of those two characters. For example, in the English word
    'sheath' the pairs 'sh', 'ea', and 'th' are all digraphs. Digraphs, trigraphs,
    etc. are strategies used by orthographies to represent more sounds and distinctions
    than are possible using a limited inventory of single letters. Digraphs may sometimes
    be considered single characters, like the Dutch ij, but most are considered a
    sequence of two letters. However, visually, digraphs are usually indistinguishable
    from a normal sequence of the component glyphs.\r\n\r\nWhen a pair of glyphs are
    actually modified in their forms as to be distinguished from a normal sequence
    (so that they touch, for example), then we have a <em>ligature</em>. This criterion
    has nothing to do with aesthetics. There are typographic ligatures like \uFB01,
    which is semantically just the sequence of characters f and i (just tweaked so
    that they don't clash horribly), but there are also ligatures like \xE6 which
    in several modern languages is considered an independent character (Note that
    fi is not a digraph since it behaves no differently from how you would expect
    the sequence f and i to behave). In modern representations of Classical Latin,
    \xE6 may represent the digraph ae that would later merge with e. So w represents
    a ligature in origin that replaced an older digraph uu.\r\n\r\nA <em>diphthong</em>
    is something else entirely. It deals with certain types of vowel <em>sounds</em>,
    namely when vowel quality changes over the course of a single unit of sound. It
    so happens that when diphthongs are represented in orthography, they are often
    written as digraphs (as in English 'loud' or 'show', but not 'hi'), and very rarely
    there are ligatures that represent diphthongs (like \xE6 in Classical Latin and
    Modern Icelandic, though not for Late Latin nor for Danish and Norwegian), but
    that's about it.\r\n\r\nSo the important distinction is that <em>digraph</em>
    is concerned with characters, <em>ligature</em> with glyphs, and <em>diphthong</em>
    with sounds. These terms deal with completely separate levels. A ligature may
    be a digraph or it may not be one. A digraph is sometimes represented with a ligature,
    but most of the time it isn't. Either of these may or may not correspond to a
    diphthong, sometimes even within the same language. A diphthong is a diphthong
    even if it has never been represented in writing."
  created: '2010-03-23 00:27:09'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "And for the sake of clarity, when Wikipedia says\r\n\r\n<cite>doubled V used
    in the 5th century by the earliest writers of Old English</cite>\r\n\r\nit can't
    be right. There is no Latin-script Old English from the fifth century. There may
    be \"uu\" digraphs found in Latin representations of other Germanic languages
    on the Continent around that time or a bit later, and there are some futhorc inscriptions
    (using wynn rather than uu) of that date in what appears to be a precursor of
    Old English (but not yet differentiated enough to be called such), but so far
    as I know, the earliest genuine representations by native speakers of Old English
    in Latin script are from the seventh century."
  created: '2010-03-23 01:18:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "I stand by my research!\r\n\r\nIt appears in the first century A.D. in Roman
    inscriptions bearing Germanic names (e.g., VVITILDES)\r\nPage 227. The Life and
    Times of the Roman Alphabet. Alexander & Nicholas Humez"
  created: '2010-03-23 01:47:06'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: It wouldn't surprise me if that's the case. I'm just saying that's not Old
    English.
  created: '2010-03-23 02:28:21'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: I never said it was.
  created: '2010-03-23 02:35:46'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Right. I was objecting to Wikipedia's error, not to what you said.
  created: '2010-03-23 14:04:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: The quote from the OED I cited makes it pretty clear that uu was first a diphthong
    ("The <strong>sound</strong> was at first represented by <em>uu</em>"), then eventually
    a ligature.
  created: '2010-03-23 16:28:25'
- author:
    name: croppie
    picture: 117074
  body: <A HREF="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q7jDHL2Idwc">Love W?</A>
  created: '2010-03-23 16:44:19'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>The quote from the OED I cited makes it pretty clear that uu was first
    a diphthong (\"The sound was at first represented by uu\"), then eventually a
    ligature.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, you misunderstand the definition of <em>diphthong</em>.
    The sound represented by uu/\u01BF/w is the voiced labio-velar approximant [w]
    or something close to it. In lay terms, it is a semivowel corresponding to /u/,
    although in English it usually behaves as a consonant so it is more appropriate
    to call it an approximant rather than a semivowel. \r\n\r\nA diphthong is a special
    kind of full vowel sound that changes in quality from beginning to end. The English
    word 'eye' starts with a vowel quality like 'ah' and glides into a vowel quality
    like the vowel in 'bit'. By contrast, the vowel sound 'ah' maintains the same
    vowel quality from beginning to end in most dialects, so is called a monophthong.
    English is quite rich in diphthongs. Here are some words featuring diphthongs:
    lie, lay, lure, lair, low, leer, loud. For comparison, here are some words featuring
    monophthongs: lap, lot, let, lit, loot, lean, law.\r\n\r\nThe sound [w] doesn't
    represent a full vowel so it is neither a monophthong or a diphthong, but as a
    semivowel it can be the component of a diphthong, as in 'low' and 'loud'. You
    can see that sometimes this is represented in spelling, as in 'low', but not always,
    and a word like 'law' looks like it ought to have a diphthong that ends in [w]
    but is actually pronounced with a monophthong. This is because pronunciation is
    always changing and English orthography doesn't represent today's pronunciation
    very well (but Chaucer probably pronounced 'law' with a diphthong ending in [w],
    like that in 'loud').\r\n\r\nSorry for being picky, but I think it's important
    to keep the distinctions clear."
  created: '2010-03-23 18:18:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>it usually behaves as a consonant so it is more appropriate to call it
    an approximant rather than a semivowel. </em>\r\n\r\nWow...QED, semivowel in spades."
  created: '2010-03-23 19:26:22'
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: "The quotation from the OED (\"the twenty-third letter of the modern Eng.
    alphabet, originating from a ligature [emphasis added] of the Roman letter represented
    by U and V...The sound was at first represented by uu, but in OE [Old English]
    and early ME [Middle English] the runic character wen [\u01BF]was widely used,
    this in turn being replaced in ME by the ligature w.\")is only a small part of
    what the OED 2nd ed. has to say on the subject, which is much to much to quote
    in full here, but is pretty exhaustive\u2014and exhausting. "
  created: '2010-03-24 16:56:56'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I don\u2019t think I agree with Jongseong\u2019s definitions of digraph and
    ligature. Ligatures are a stylistic attribute and not a fundamental feature of
    spelling, can we not agree? Nor are separated letters digraphs (QED). If you can\u2019t
    decompose a character (like <cite>\u0152</cite> or <cite>\xC6</cite>) without
    causing an error, what you\u2019ve got is a digraph, I contend. \r\n\r\n(Then
    you get cases where people have put up with typographically incapable machines,
    like manual typewriters, for so long they have come to accept that <cite lang=\"fr\">COEUR</cite>
    and <cite lang=\"fr\">C\u0152UR</cite> are interchangeable  in every respect <em>even
    though they aren\u2019t</em>. See also: Pervasive American myth that French upper
    case doesn\u2019t need accents.)"
  created: '2010-03-24 17:31:37'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "The definitions I supplied are not meant to reflect some whimsical personal
    preferences but actual usage of these terms in the wider world; they correspond
    to the 1st definition of digraph and the 4th definition of ligature in MW:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/digraph]]\r\n[[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ligature]]\r\n\r\nMW
    also has a broad definition of digraph as any group of two successive letters,
    and if you look at the 3rd definition, 'digraph' is also used in the sense of
    'ligature'. So there is a confusion of these terms that MW documents, but I prefer
    to use them in their specific senses.\r\n\r\nIn typography one doesn't really
    need to talk about digraphs, so when one does use the word it may often be as
    an alternative term for 'ligature', and this might be fine if we never had to
    use 'digraph' in its original sense. But when one talks about orthographies of
    different writing systems (another area of interest of mine), the term 'digraph'
    in its primary sense is quite indispensable, so I would like to keep the two terms
    separate.\r\n\r\nJoe, you seem to be describing what I would call 'stylistic ligature',
    ligatures employed for stylistic reasons. But any joined letters including \u0152,
    \xC6, and originally W are ligatures, as MW and the OED passage quoted above demonstrates.
    Again, in typography we mostly talk about stylistic ligatures, but that's only
    one specific subset of ligatures."
  created: '2010-03-24 21:31:50'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: Mm, no, I think digraphs and ligatures are two separate things. I do not think
    they are both ligatures, one of them stylistic.
  created: '2010-03-25 01:36:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian, I think there is only one useful definition of ligature as a noun
    in the context of typography, and that is a single glyph representing more than
    one character (whether the glyph in question is a chunk of metal, a cell in a
    phototype matrix, or a GID in an sfnt font). That is, a ligature is a particular
    technical solution to the display of multiple characters as a single typeform
    (the latter is a useful, technology-independent term to refer to the visual units
    of typographic output, recognising that when we see typeforms displayed on a screen
    or printed on a page we can't tell how many glyphs are involved).\r\n\r\nJoe:
    <em>Ligatures are a stylistic attribute and not a fundamental feature of spelling,
    can we not agree? Nor are separated letters digraphs (QED). If you can\u2019t
    decompose a character (like \u0152 or \xC6) without causing an error, what you\u2019ve
    got is a digraph, I contend.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you can't decompose a character such
    as \u0152 or \xC6, then what you are looking at are single letters, not digraphs.
    This is language-specific: AE in ecclesiastical Latin is a digraph (I believe
    in classical Latin it was probably a diphthong), and is sometimes written in ligated
    form \xC6 and sometimes not; \xC6 in Norwegian is a single letter and must always
    be written in this ligated form. Ligation is neither always semantic nor always
    stylistic: it is the joining of what may be recognisable as separate letters into
    a single typeform, which may represent, in that form, either the same thing as
    the separate letters (stylistic ligation) or a distinct letter (semantic ligation).\r\n\r\nOf
    course separated letters may be digraphs; indeed, the majority of digraphs in
    the majority of alphabets are written in separated form. Ligation of digraphs
    is actually quite rare, and more non-digraphs are ligated than are digraphs. There
    are also examples of (separated) trigraphs, tetragraphs, pentagraphs and, yes,
    hexagraphs (that's the most I've counted). As Brian wrote above, a digraph is
    any two letters that, in combination, are used to represent a different phoneme
    than the same letters represent in isolation or in combination with other letters.
    In English, of course, our use of letters as digraphs is as phonetically inconsistent
    as the rest of our spelling, so we get pairs of letters that sometimes function
    as digraphs and sometimes not, and even the same pair used as different digraphs,
    e.g. CHain vs eCHo."
  created: '2010-03-25 02:08:16'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Maybe it's a Digature or a Ligathong? :D\r\n\r\nI agree that COEUR and C\u0152UR
    or OEUIL and \u0152UIL are not interchangeable but although we're not there yet
    it is very possible that the norm becomes writing the O and the E separately.
    That's because changes in spelling is not necessarily something that happens overnight
    and not always backed by an authority, it can simply stem from an overwhelming
    \"misspelling\" from the masses. I am willing to accept changes in spelling if
    they originate from a sincere progressive desire, but it is unfortunate to \"amend\"
    an orthography for a silly technical reason (e.g. QWERTY keyboard)\r\nJoe:<cite>Pervasive
    American myth that French upper case doesn\u2019t need accents.</cite>\r\nThat's
    not really an American propaganda, I heard a debate on French TV about omitting
    diacritics on capital letters in the beginning of a sentence, opponents to the
    idea argued about the inconsistency between U&lc and All Caps if this was to be
    done but no one dismissed it as an \"American myth\". I mean there's always two
    sides to an argument for example \"reformers\" in France have argued about dropping
    the circumflex, but proponents of the circumflex stress its importance in the
    etymology of a word."
  created: '2010-03-25 04:45:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It is also possible to have a (typographic) ligature within a single character,
    i, as Jeremy Dooley has just demonstrated in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/68635\">Sildetas</a>.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there is Auriol, full of c\xE6sur\xE6.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aecaes_3846.png]"
  created: '2010-03-25 05:16:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>It is also possible to have a (typographic) ligature within a single
    character, i, as Jeremy Dooley has just demonstrated in Sildetas.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean the way the dot of the i is connected to the stem with a flourish? That's
    a kind of ligating in the general, non-type-specific sense of joining, but it
    isn't a ligature, it's just a fancy letter. Again, the only practically useful
    definition of ligature in typography is a single glyph representing two or more
    characters.\r\n\r\nThis, for instance, is <em>not</em> a ligature:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brillffk_4296.gif]\r\n\r\nIt's
    three separate glyphs that have been designed to contextually produce a connected
    typeform. [The fact that, looking at this, the viewer cannot tell how many glyphs
    are involved, is what makes the term typeform useful.]"
  created: '2010-03-25 07:02:56'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "John: <cite>I think there is only one useful definition of ligature as a
    noun in the context of typography, and that is a single glyph representing more
    than one character (whether the glyph in question is a chunk of metal, a cell
    in a phototype matrix, or a GID in an sfnt font).</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree that such
    a definition would be useful in the context of typography, because in type design
    we operate at the level of glyphs, not characters. One could design an 'fi ligature'
    with a shortened f so that the components don't connect, and put it as a single
    glyph in the slot assigned to the fi ligature. Then it isn't a ligature according
    to the definition I presented, but for our purposes, it makes sense to call it
    one. Or in a typeface representing connected handwriting, it wouldn't be efficient
    to call every word a ligature because the letters are all joined, unless it is
    actually designed as a single glyph.\r\n\r\nAgain, I tried to present definitions
    that are not typography specific, but as they are understood in the wider world.
    <em>Digraph</em> and <em>diphthong</em> are not typography terms except tangentially,
    but <em>ligature</em> is, so I guess it would make sense to refine the definition
    as to be more useful to the practitioners.\r\n\r\nJoe: <cite>Pervasive American
    myth that French upper case doesn\u2019t need accents.</cite>\r\n\r\nLike Johnny,
    I can confirm that this is not just an American myth. The French themselves very
    often omit accents in capital letters, even if the official position is that these
    are not optional should always be included. This is not helped by the fact that
    the French keyboard provides no way of inputting \xC7, \xC9, or \u0152 (or \u0153
    for that matter). Other accented capitals such as \xC0 and \xC8 can only be typed
    using dead keys, while lowercase \xE0 and \xE8 can be typed with a single key.
    By contrast, I think all the accented capitals of French except \u0152 are accessible
    with the Canadian French keyboard."
  created: '2010-03-25 10:17:49'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Right. I was objecting to Wikipedia's error, not to what you said\r\n\r\nDon't
    object to a Wikipedia error. Fix it."
  created: '2010-03-25 14:46:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-03-25 14:49:29'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>Don't object to a Wikipedia error. Fix it.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, I've
    given up on Wikipedia editing. It's best left to those who think that dealing
    with ignorant yet deranged monomaniacs is fun."
  created: '2010-03-25 15:17:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Sorry, I've given up on Wikipedia editing. It's best left to those who
    think that dealing with ignorant yet deranged monomaniacs is fun.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nReminds
    me of a cartoon I saw recently, another take on seeking words of wisdom from a
    mountaintop guru. The guru told the seeker, \"Arguing with idiots makes you an
    idiot.\" When asked later by a friend what the guru's advice was, the seeker said
    \"Don't go into politics and stay off the internet...\""
  created: '2010-03-25 16:02:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Brian: <em>Digraph and diphthong are not typography terms except tangentially</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    A digraph is a grammatological concept, part of the description of a writing system
    as applied to particular languages. A diphthong is a phonological concept, part
    of the description of vowel sounds in spoken language. A ligature is a typographical
    concept, part of the description of how text is displayed.\r\n\r\nThe word ligature
    is also used sometimes in description of manuscript text, but I think this is
    almost always erroneous. There are ligatures in writing, but they are not what
    we think of as ligatures in type, they are joining <em>strokes</em> that do not
    form part of letters as alphabetic units.\r\n\r\nTom Milo has a distinctive use
    of ligature in the description of Arabic text: a connection between letters that
    normatively do <em>not</em> connect, e.g. a touching connection between a letter
    at the end of one fusion (letter group) and another at the start of the next."
  created: '2010-03-25 17:25:42'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I do not agree with John\u2019s contention that <cite>\xC6</cite> is just
    a separate letter. In Norwegian it may be thus, but it is <em>also</em> quite
    plainly a <em>digraph</em> of <cite>A</cite> and <cite>E</cite>. Perhaps only
    historically. John restates my working definition: If you decompose the suspect
    character and the result is an error, what you\u2019ve got is a digraph, not a
    ligature. "
  created: '2010-03-25 17:57:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe, I didn't say that \xAD\xC6 was just a separate letter. I said that in
    some orthographies it is a separate letter. In other orthographies it representes
    a digraph, but this statement is incorrect:\r\n\r\n<em>If you decompose the suspect
    character and the result is an error, what you\u2019ve got is a digraph</em>\r\n\r\nbecause
    a digraph by definition is two <em>letters</em> representing a distinct sound*
    -- a grammatological, not typographical, role -- , and it doesn't matter whether
    those letters are written separately or ligated. Indeed, the fact is the opposite
    of what you write: if you decompose the suspect typeform and the result is <em>not</em>
    an error, what you've got is a digraph. If the result is an error, as it would
    be in e.g. Norwegian, then what you've got is a separate letter.\r\n\r\nWhat we
    do with digraphs in typography has no bearing on whether or not they are digraphs,
    because it is their relationship to phonology not their appearance that defines
    them as digraphs. Here's a simple example: in ecclesiastical Latin the two-letter
    sequence AE is always a digraph representing a single vowel sound, but AE and
    \xC6 are equally valid ways of displaying this digraph and mean exactly the same
    thing.\r\n\r\nIt's worth noting that many (most?) digraphs, trigraphs, tetragraphs
    and pentagraphs represent consonant phonemes, not vowels. [The only hexagraphs
    I know of represent vowel sounds, but interestingly they include what we normally
    think of as consonant letters. Irish spelling is a hoot.] And again it makes no
    difference whether the letters involved are separate or ligated.\r\n\r\n___\r\n*
    To a add a nuance, and perhaps more confusion, digraphs etc. are best identified
    on the basis of representing sounds other than those represented by the individual
    letters, <em>not necessarily single phonemes.</em> In other words, a digraph etc.
    may represent a combination of sounds, but different from the combination that
    the individual letters read independently would suggest. Hence, in classical Latin,
    the digraph AE/\xC6 represented a diphthong [ai\u032F], not a single phoneme,
    and the Irish hexagraph <em>eidhea</em> also represents a diphthong [\u0259i\u032F].\r\n\r\nFinally,
    confusion-upon-confusion, in some orthographies a digraph etc. only functions
    as such in particular preceding and/or following contexts."
  created: '2010-03-25 19:07:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So, how'd w end up? per language? so that in Latin, no? in German, yes? in
    English no?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-25 23:05:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In English, W began life as a digraph VV with the interesting status of a
    variant spelling replacing the single letter \u01F7 (<em>wynn</em>), but which
    gradually became the preferred spelling and morphed, through ligation, into a
    single letter, in much the same way that an AE digraph morphed into a single \xC6
    letter in Norwegian and other alphabets.\r\n\r\nYes, it's per language, and not
    surprisingly because phonology is language-specific and alphabets tend to make
    common use of letters to represent the same phonemes only if direct transfer of
    an alphabet or portions of an alphabet have happened, especially within a language
    family. When no such direct relationship exists, only fluke will result in the
    same phonemes being represented by the same letter. Hence, for example, in Polish,
    the voiced rounded labiovelar approximant phoneme that is the most common signified
    of W in English spelling is represented by the letter \u0141, while the letter
    W represents the voiced labiodental fricative that we write in English as V. Meanwhile,
    in Polish, the letter V isn't used at all, so an analysis if W as a VV digraph
    makes no sense at all in this particular language context. And so it goes.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, W is an English contribution to the modern Latin alphabet, and
    occurs in European alphabets in a west-east band across the middle of Europe from
    England to Poland. But the use of the letter varies as it moves east because of
    differences in phonology, first between the different Germanic languages and then
    all bets are off when it hits a Slavic language."
  created: '2010-03-26 00:50:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">W is an English contribution to the modern Latin alphabet\r\nIf you mean
    it was contributed to users by English, the language I understand, and I know
    it appeared long before in Europe, but I thought it appeared first listed in the
    alphabet, in the 1820's, here in America? And then, phonologically it was contributed
    by English, but someone said it was appearing in Trajan's Column, which sounded
    odd because 10 was never spelled vv, was it?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-03-26 16:14:19'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "1820's  ?  Really?  How was the Wild West won without a W? \r\n\r\n\r\nthank
    you everyone.\r\n\r\nfascinating. So, next question: Why haven't ch, gh sh and
    th become digraphs or standard ligatures?\r\n\r\nHas the alphabet stopped evolving
    since spelling was standardized. Maybe that's a question fop an other thread.\r\n\r\nI
    used to tell my kids a bed time story about an old king  trying to write a poem.
    He can't think of a rhyme for Double U so he calls in all his minsters and advisers.
    They try and fail, so in the end he admits defeat and says \"Sorry to trouble
    you.\" :o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-26 16:36:37'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Why haven't ch, gh sh and th become digraphs or standard ligatures?</cite>\r\n\r\nThese
    <em>are</em> digraphs in English orthography! Read the definitions above; being
    digraphs has nothing to do with whether these are written as ligatures or not.\r\n\r\nEnglish
    has been written with the letter W at least since the period of Middle English,
    so I'm not sure where the 1820s bit comes from. Perhaps David is talking about
    W becoming part of a standardized recited alphabet? I don't know anything about
    that particular subject."
  created: '2010-03-26 18:07:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "http://whatreallyhappened.com/RANCHO/POLITICS/DOCUMENTS/DECLARATION/us_declarationE.jpg\r\n\r\nA
    rather conspicuous instance of W in advance of 1820, if you read the first line..."
  created: '2010-03-26 19:37:42'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Even as someone with a linguistics degree I think it is unwise to link digraph
    status to phonological underpinning. Not every letter is pronounced, is it not?
    Nor is a single pronunciation mapped 1:1 to a character or characters.\r\n\r\nI
    restate one of my contentions: Norwegian <cite>\xC6</cite> may be a letter, but
    it is also a digraph. I understand the reason John disagrees. I disagree with
    his disagreement.\r\n\r\nNow, why hasn\u2019t anyone brought up Spanish <cite>Ch</cite>
    and <cite>Ll</cite>?"
  created: '2010-03-26 20:03:50'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Nor is a single pronunciation mapped 1:1 to a character or characters.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    that's precisely the reason we have the usual definition of digraph. Many languages
    use pairs of characters to represent certain sounds. This is because the letters
    in a given alphabet almost always won't be enough to represent the full phonemic
    inventory of a language. When one discusses orthography and the relation between
    spelling and sound, it is quite essential to be able to discuss this phenomenon.
    Again, I emphasize that this is standard terminology in that field.\r\n\r\nBy
    this definition, Norwegian \xC6 is not a digraph. I personally haven't seen the
    definition you are using anywhere else; could you tell us where your definition
    is taken from or show us where the term is used according to your definition?\r\n\r\n<cite>Now,
    why hasn\u2019t anyone brought up Spanish Ch and Ll?</cite>\r\n\r\nThese are interesting
    in that they are digraphs that were traditionally considered letters in their
    own right."
  created: '2010-03-27 02:57:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "We have not touched yet on the sorting issue and how it relates to the way
    in which people think about what constitutes a \u2018letter\u2019 in their alphabet.
    The popular example -- discussed here many times -- is the Dutch <em>ij,</em>
    which has an identical role in native Dutch words regardless of whether it is
    written as separate or ligated letters, and which represents a phoneme different
    from that suggested by the individual prounciation of <em>i</em> and <em>j</em>,
    and hence meets the standard definition of a digraph. [And Brian is right, this
    is the standard definition.] But it is traditionally considered a distinct letter
    of the Dutch alphabet because of the way in which it sorts and how it traditionally
    behaves in e.g. vertical or letterspaced text."
  created: '2010-03-27 03:09:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe: <em>Even as someone with a linguistics degree I think it is unwise to
    link digraph status to phonological underpinning. Not every letter is pronounced,
    is it not? Nor is a single pronunciation mapped 1:1 to a character or characters.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a whole range of phenomena in the relationship of alphabetical characters to
    phonemes, especially in languages with borrowed alphabets or with etymological
    spelling conservation and dynamic pronunciation change (of which English is a
    splendid example). [The constructed orthographies of many African and Amerindian
    languages tend to be much more systematic, with a monovalent relationship of signs
    and sounds.] Yes, there are silent letters, and there are letters which represent
    multiple phonemes depending on context, etymology etc.. And there are pairs of
    letters that represent a single sound, and this phenomenon is called a digraph.
    Just because the phenomena are numerous, complex, and may in places overlap, does
    not mean that they cannot be systematically described with an appropriate terminology.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    restate one of my contentions: Norwegian \xC6 may be a letter, but it is also
    a digraph.</em>\r\n\r\nBut what do you gain from such a contention? You lose,
    or at least pointlessly blur, the distinction between the <em>\xE6</em> letter
    and actual digraphs in Norwegian such as <em>gj, kj, kk, rn, rs, sj, sk, tj.</em> "
  created: '2010-03-27 03:25:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Russ,\r\nSee what kind of a sticky-wicket you can get into with a \"simple
    dumb question\"? :-)"
  created: '2010-03-27 03:28:58'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "The \u2018w\u2019-sound, peculiar to Germanic languages, was originally written
    as two successive <strong>u</strong>s. In the twelfth century, however, it was
    already being written as a ligature of two <strong>v</strong>s in Germany and
    this form remained in use in German-, Dutch-, Danish- and Swedish-speaking countries
    till the end of the Middle Ages.\r\n\r\nFrom <em>The Pal\xE6ography of Gothic
    Manuscripts Books \u2014 from the Twelfth to the Early Sixteenth Century</em>
    \u2014 Albert Derolez, p. 94 (In reference to Northern Textualis)."
  created: '2010-03-27 11:38:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">1820's ? Really? How was the Wild West won without a W?\r\n\r\nIt wasn't.
    Back then they drooled a lot and called it the viled vest.\r\n\r\n\r\ncheers!"
  created: '2010-03-27 11:39:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...called it the viled vest.\"\r\n\r\n\"Blazing Saddles\" Madeleine Kahn?"
  created: '2010-03-27 13:04:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>How was the Wild West won without a W?</em>\r\n\r\nBy Anglo-Saxons:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wynnwest_4210.gif]"
  created: '2010-03-27 18:16:03'
date: '2010-03-22 20:28:25'
title: simple dumb question. (about 'w')

---
