---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "We are all too familiar with the ongoing discourse surrounding the re-definition
  of the role of the typographer. Food for thought:\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>A scientist approaches
  a problem by carefully designing its parameters, seeking out relevant information,
  and subjecting proposed solutions to rigorous testing. The scientific view of the
  world leads a person to be skeptical about what he or she reads or hears in popular
  media. Having a scientific outlook leads a person to question the validity of provocative
  statements made in the media and to find out what scientific studies say about those
  statements. In short, and individual with a scientific outlook does not accept everything
  at face value</em>.\u201D (Bordens & Abbott, 2008).\r\n\r\nReplace the word scientist
  with typographer. As such, is there a potential for typographers to become applied
  scientists?\r\n\r\nBordens, K. S. & Abbott, B. B., (2008). <em>Research Design and
  Methods. 7th ed. p 3</em>. McGraw Hill, New York."
comments:
- author:
    name: WeAreLoa
    picture: 128775
  body: "Can't typographers be typographers? \r\n\r\nThis sounds like the designer/artist/professional
    discourse that has been going on for years and years and years."
  created: '2010-03-24 00:49:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: 'And the $100 question: What is a typographer?'
  created: '2010-03-24 00:53:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> As such, is there a potential for typographers to become applied scientists?\r\n\r\nNo!"
  created: '2010-03-24 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What is a typographer?</em>\r\n\r\nSomeone who sets type, fixing the
    variables of typeface, size, leading, measure, etc., usually in a document layout.\r\nThis
    is a narrower definition than that of typography, which also covers the machinery
    of type; but people who make type machines, and even, perhaps, type designers,
    are not necessarily typographers.\r\n\r\nBy the same token, not all people who
    work in the music business are musicians."
  created: '2010-03-24 04:26:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "><cite>The scientific view of the world leads a person to be skeptical about
    what he or she reads or hears in popular media.</cite>\r\n\r\nLike the original
    post for example.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-03-24 04:35:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Inter scientias non minima est typographica</em> -- Johann Jakob von
    Weingarten, 17th Century.\r\n\r\nChris, the text you quote from Bordens & Abbott
    seems to me to describe someone with critical thinking and analytical skills,
    and not everyone who has such skills is a scientist nor is every use of such skills
    scientific. Science implies, to me, particular approaches to theory construction
    and experimental testing, whereas critical and analytical skills and methodologies
    are more general in nature and not limited to fields of science. So, yes, there
    is a potential for typographers to be applied scientists, but also for typographers
    to be philosophers, literary critics, philologists, and poets, among other things."
  created: '2010-03-24 06:30:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ Paul Cutler: Precisely (I updated the reference in the original post to
    include the page number).'
  created: '2010-03-24 13:10:49'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I don\u2019t feel strongly a typographer who designs *with* type is kind
    of scientist.\r\nBut as a fontist, I would say this is a trias of art, craft and
    science. Though not neccessarily in any case."
  created: '2010-03-24 17:02:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Andreas St\xF6tzner: Is this an accurate definition of a <a href=\"http://www.crickart.com/fontist/index.html\">Fontist</a>?"
  created: '2010-03-24 17:31:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "In Germany, design at the higher education level is often* taught at former
    polytechnic institutes called <em>Fachhochschulen</em>. The official English translation
    in Germany for <em>Fachhochschule</em> is \"University of Applied Sciences.\"
    So there are plenty of typographers in Germany who come from an \"applied sciences\"
    background, at least on paper. I always thought that \"University of Applied Sciences\"
    was kind of a stupid translation, though.\r\n\r\n* There are other sorts of places
    one can study design in Germany, including universities and a number of art academies
    with university-level status."
  created: '2010-03-24 18:06:16'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ Christopher: the linked definition is wonderful. Though I lean towards
    naming that particular approach rather \u201CFontology\u201D which is supposed
    to be a kind of church  ;-)\r\n\r\nHowever, for my own part I used \u201Cfontist\u201D
    just in the sense of \u201Csomeone making fonts\u201D. (Could be *fontographer*,
    actually, but that gets ambiguous.) I like \u2018fontist\u2019 more than \u2018font
    designer\u2019 because a) it\u2019s more brief; b) it comprises the other aspects
    (apart from designing) as well. Fonting today is not just design. It\u2019s design,
    craft, science, technology and business.\r\nWhere have we arrived \u2013!"
  created: '2010-03-25 07:13:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm puzzled.\r\n\r\nIs this an effort to dignify type design by calling it
    a science?\r\n\r\nI think if you define too narrow a box to put yourself in, then
    you are in a box that is too narrow.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-25 12:47:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When I was a graduate student at Ohio State, the degree that they granted
    undergraduate students of Visual Communication Design was a BS, Bachelors of Science.
    Students had to take some social science courses. The school was modeled on the
    Royal College in the UK of years ago with a great emphasis on design methodology.
    It made more sense with product design though.
  created: '2010-03-25 13:10:28'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: "A typographer is a person trained in the use of appropriate type in conjunction
    with illustration. As a typographer I had learned to make aesthetic decisions
    based on the text, printing surface and color. The mechanical part of typesetting
    is incidental. The typographer in the old days was also the agency type director.\r\nwww.dr-type.net "
  created: '2010-03-26 03:01:35'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "I really believe that attempting to redefine Typography as an applied science
    is a severe overextension of the idea of Science. \r\n\r\nInsofar as a Typographer
    is a tradesman who sets type and handles all matters related to type setting,
    he is no more of an applied scientists than a carpenter or a mechanic. The level
    of expertise and artisanship that may be required or called for in the context
    of these various trades, has nothing to do with science per se; with the scientific
    method, or with the careful application of scientific methodologies and scrutiny.
    A pseudo-scientific approach does not qualify as science, and the fact that there
    might be some elements of the work that may shares a superficial resemblance to
    a scientific methodology, cannot be used to qualify one's work or profession as
    scientific.\r\n\r\n@ dezcom: the fact that Ohio State had granted undergraduates
    of \"Visual Communication Design\" a Bachelor of Science, may very well be irrelevant.
    I have a feeling that it has nothing to do with science, and everything to do
    with marketing (with perhaps a dash of internal politics). A Bachelor of Science
    is still considered to be a slightly greater status that the more common Bachelor
    of Arts, offering such a degree to graphic designers is probably intended to act
    as a draw for the Ohio State program.\r\n\r\nOne last note (and one that hopefully
    would not annoy too many people here), is that most of the Social Sciences are
    NOT sciences in the traditional or even common conception of the word. Having
    the word science attached to something does not render it scientific, and taking
    social science courses in university does not make one a scientist.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-27 13:31:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Shubinsky, I think we need to be sensitive to different uses of the word
    'science'. While I generally agree with your point that (most) typography is not
    scientific in the common modern use of the term, when Johann Jakob von Weingarten
    wrote, in the late 17th Century, \u2018Inter scientias non minima est typographica\u2019
    -- typography is not the least among the sciences --, he was using the term both
    accurately and in the broad sense that is has been used throughout most of European
    history. Science in this sense means simply a knowledge-based practice -- contra
    the modern usage, which implies particular kinds of knowledge and methodologies
    --, and in this sense typography may certainly be conducted in a way that qualifies
    it as a science and, indeed, recognising this permits a useful distinction to
    be made between knowledge-based typography and what might be termed intuitive
    or even expressive typography.\r\n\r\nFurther, if typography is conducted in such
    a way that it responds directly to e.g. empirical research in the study of reading
    -- which is Chris' interest --, then I think it would be hard to deny that such
    typography is scientific even in the modern sense."
  created: '2010-03-27 20:23:45'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "This discussion touched a topic I am dealing with for a few weeks in preparation
    for my ICTVC talk. Prove me wrong, but I see no reason why there cannot be a science
    _about_ typeface design (shifting the topic here a bit, from typography to typeface
    design). As much as there is a science about language (and linguistics is considered
    a science, right?). The use of language is not science, neither is typography
    nor actual typeface design process, but there seems to be a great potential to
    systhematically-built knowledge base about letters and typefaces (their appearance
    as well as the process of their creation).\r\n\r\nAssessing typefaces from such
    perspective is certainly not limiting. You can still do whatever you want. However,
    systematic approach and reasoning might bring deeper understanding, easier to
    to transfer (to students) and develop (that is the main point of science, I guess,
    to maintain and extend the knowledge base).\r\n\r\nHere are few (trimmed) definitions
    from Wikipedia:\r\n\r\n<strong>Science:</strong> (in narrower sense) a system
    of acquiring knowledge based on scientific method, and to the organized body of
    knowledge gained through such research\r\n\r\n<strong>Scientific method:</strong>
    a body of techniques for investigating phenomena, acquiring new knowledge, or
    correcting and integrating previous knowledge. To be termed scientific, a method
    of inquiry must be based on gathering observable, empirical and measurable evidence
    subject to specific principles of reasoning. A scientific method consists of the
    collection of data through observation and experimentation, and the formulation
    and testing of hypotheses.\r\n\r\nMy bit again:\r\n\r\nKnowledge base: (not yet
    systematic) theories of how to construct typefaces, which features affect readability
    and how, \u2026\r\nScientific method: structural-functional analysis of the designs,
    psychological researches of reading, \u2026\r\n\r\nThe evidence is certainly observable
    and measurable (you can count the serifs, stem thickness, you can measure eye
    movements, \u2026). And can you consider typeface design empirical? Not sure yet,
    but can you consider an actual \u201Cuse of a typeface\u201D as an empirical test?\r\n\r\nNoordzij,
    Unger, Knuth, and other some to mind.\r\n\r\nI know I mixing the readability/functional
    aspect with the structural study of typeface design, but that is just for the
    sake of being brief. I might be just embarassing myself here, prove me wrong please,
    but I cannot not ask the question:\r\nIf we can study one of the most important
    inventions we have, the language, how come we do not study the \u201Csecond most
    important\u201D, the written language, the same way? Or are we?"
  created: '2010-03-28 12:03:43'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Mr Hudson, it appears that we may be confounding some concepts here, namely
    Knowledge based practices versus the modern idea of Science, and Typography versus
    Type Design. \r\n\r\nChoosing to use the term science in it's archaic sense of
    \"knowledge\", renders the idea of typography as an applied science, empty of
    any coherent meaning. What is \"knowledge\"? How do we define it? Knowledge in
    such a wide sense, is too abstract to be meaningful. One could argue for instance
    that an Astrologist, in this archaic sense of science, is in fact an applied scientist
    (since he or she could argue that they are engaging in a knowledge based pursuit
    of \"truth\"), and I have no doubt that there are some Astrologists out there
    that would indeed see themselves as applied \"scientists\" of sorts. The idea
    of knowledge may have been different and more limited during  Johann Jakob von
    Weingarten's period, when knowledge was more restricted and its distribution highly
    censured. Our modern society though has knowledge bursting at its seems\u2014it
    is a knowledge based culture, and as such using the term \"Science\" to represent
    this abundant commodity may not contribute to our understanding of Science or
    of the typographic craft. \r\n\r\nIt is also worth noting though, that in the
    context of his time von Weingarten may have had just cause to consider typography
    as a science. First the idea of science had not been operationalised yet into
    its modern use. Second, the craft of typography practiced at the time was quite
    different from the way it is often practiced today. I have no doubt that von Weingarten
    had to possess a considerable knowledge and experience base to facilitate his
    craft, and one that went well beyond the ability to use page layout software.
    Third, at a time when the print medium had become the sine qua non to the spread
    of enlightenment, one could presume that some of the typographers of the time
    may had come to identify themselves with the same enlightened reason that was
    propagated through their presses, and through which the modern sciences had began
    to emerge. Alas, the craft of Typography has changed profoundly from von Weingarten's
    time, and many of its modern day practitioners, can scarcely lay a claim for an
    affiliation with science\u2014neither in the archaic or modern sense of the term.
    \r\n\r\nThe term science, as it is employed today, and as I had understood it
    in my previous post, is associated specifically with the \"pursuit of knowledge
    covering general truths or the operations of fundamental laws\", and with a specific
    methodology that \"entails unbiased observations and systematic experimentation\"
    (Encyclop\xE6dia Britannica). Thus defined, modern typography is not and cannot
    be considered a science of any sort or form.\r\n\r\nI do agree, though for the
    most part, with Mr Brezina's remarks, and I believe that the discussion takes
    a turn when one moves from talk of Typography to talk of Type Design. In the world
    of designing type there is room for the scientific method, for empirical driven
    experimentation, and for the uncovering of fundamental laws (viz. the laws concerning
    human reading processes). Not all type designers have a scientific approach to
    their subject matter, but some do, and I believe that a strong case can be made
    that designers such as Noordzij and Unger are in fact applied scientists at times.
    Furthermore, I would like to propose that science needs to collaborate with type
    designers, to enable for a more complete understanding of the reading process.
    A great deal of the scientific empirical research conducted hitherto into reading
    has suffered from logical and conceptual errors that owe, in part, to a lack of
    understanding of the nature of the stimulus in question. Such a research based
    collaborative effort would no doubt enrich both our scientific understanding of
    reading processes, and enhance and elevate the craft of type design."
  created: '2010-03-28 17:43:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sure, you could have a science of typography.\r\nBut it would be too much
    like the science of marketing to have any greater scope than market research.\r\nPeople
    have been trying to turn advertising into a science for a century.\r\nThe premise
    is appealing, because so much in the way of marketing economics and demographics
    can be measured.\r\nThe same illusion exists towards typography, because type
    is (now) apparently \"only\" simple bytes of information, systematically organized.\r\nBut
    ultimately, the effect of even a line of type in an advertisement cannot be predicted,
    only measured after the fact of its reading.\r\n\r\nThe same is true of music.\r\nMore
    so than anything in the visual typographic realm (where it is not even possible
    to measure the x-height of a typeface), music can be accurately described scientifically,
    in terms of pitch, timbre, rhythm, etc., but that gives no indication on whether
    it will move the listener, only that it may be heard.\r\n\r\nThose who would apply
    the precepts of science to typography have great expectations that it will enable
    us to produce better reading through science. That's a misunderstanding of the
    way that science, culture, and typography work."
  created: '2010-03-28 17:52:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Anyone who has witnessed a Linotype casting machine in action\u2014a scene
    not unlike the one which Toto pulls back the curtain and reveals the man to whom
    which Dorothy is commanded to pay no attention\u2014has seen applied science in
    action..."
  created: '2010-03-28 18:19:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam (please call me John), I don't disagree with anything that you have
    written, except to note that typography, and not just type design, <em>can</em>
    be conducted in accord with the scientific method, taking into account, for instance,
    empirical study of document structure and layout, including microtypographic decisions,
    and their impact on reading speed and comprehension. Such study is being conducted
    by cognitive scientists, but if it feeds back into a practice of typography, then
    one can say that such typography is scientific in the sense of science-based.
    Does that make the typographer an applied scientist? Perhaps not, but it makes
    him a science applier, but then the same could be said of a chemist who spends
    his days making shampoo: is he really doing science, or is he just applying science?
    Further, something happens in the application of science that changes it somewhat,
    just as the applied arts colour the understanding of what art is.\r\n\r\nRe. the
    historical use of \u2018science\u2019: I spend a lot of time mentally inhabiting
    earlier centuries, in reading, singing and in an effort to understand how people
    thought at various times and places, so I tend to be accomodating to \u2018archaic\u2019
    uses of language, noting also that in many cases such uses represent a much longer
    record of human thought than the relative novelties of modern usage.\r\n\r\nI'll
    also note that the quote in Christopher's original post framed \u2018science\u2019
    in terms almost as broad and general as the traditional usage: a kind of critical
    thinking. I happen to disagree with that, but it did seem to me to give the discussion
    wide parameters."
  created: '2010-03-28 18:54:03'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "As far as the reading process goes, I actually do believe that reading could
    be understood in purely scientific terms. The stimulus (i.e. letters and words)
    is determinable and fixed, the input pathways (e.g. the eyes, magno and parvocellular
    pathways, etc.) can be studied in detail. Our cognitive processing can be determined
    and accurately assessed in theory, and as imaging technologies improve so will
    our ability to peer into the brain and understand how neurological phenomena correlate
    with perception. \r\n\r\nAll this makes for a theoretical ability to obtain a
    comprehensive and detailed scientific description of the reading process. Such
    a description should in turn enable us to produce a better reading experience,
    probably influencing future type design. It may also in the process provide typography
    with a scientific framework.\r\n\r\nAnd by the way, the fact that it is not possible
    to even measure the x-height of a typeface, is because \"x-height\" is not a proper
    measurement to begin with. Typography had chosen overly complex measurement benchmarks
    that do not lend themselves easily to fixed and objective assessments."
  created: '2010-03-28 19:09:30'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "John, the problem with typography is that there is a scarce body of research
    that is directly applicable to it, and on top of that one often finds that existing
    research tends to be flawed in one way or another. \r\n\r\nBut even if typographers
    apply certain standards that were determined initially through empirical research,
    does that entail that they could be considered applied scientists? If an internal
    decorator chooses a certain layout or configuration, and he or she base it on
    some research into ergonomics done by a scientist X, does that make that internal
    decorator an applied scientist? I would argue that that is not the case.\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    the comparison to the Chemist, is not entirely fair, since the Chemist is a trained
    scientist to begin with, who may apply his scientific know how to the mundane
    world of shampoo making, yet his endeavour is still nonetheless scientific\u2014both
    in that it is based directly on his scientific knowledge and experience, and in
    that the task he is engaging in is still in essence one of pure science.\r\n\r\nAs
    for mentally inhabiting previous centuries, I have to admit that I would love
    to be able to grind some lens with Spinoza, have a cup of tea with Adam Smith,
    or print some pamphlets with Thomas Paine..."
  created: '2010-03-28 19:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No, the reason that the x-height of a typeface cannot be measured is because
    a typeface is a scalable design.\r\nSo the x-height of, for instance, Futura,
    is not an absolute value, but whatever percentage of the em-square a foundry chooses
    to make it.\r\nAnd in terms of the reading process, the x-height of a typeface
    is not merely the height of its x.\r\nThen there is the question, where do you
    put the ends of the tape-measure?  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/abxie_5538.png]"
  created: '2010-03-28 20:17:35'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Nick: are not you confounding x-height with appearing height (visual height,
    \u2026)? x-height is certainly a measure \u2013 it is defined that way. The way
    letters relate to it is a different aspect. And of course, x-height is a design
    tool. It does not help much when assesing the appearance of typeface in text (and
    its visual height). Maybe just different nomenclature?"
  created: '2010-03-28 21:41:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...x-height is certainly a measure \u2013 it is defined that way.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    particular definition is accurate? \r\n- percentage x is of cap height\r\n- percentage
    x is of vertical span \r\n- percentage x is of ascender height\r\n- percentage
    x is of em\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nIn answer to the original question: of course typographers
    are scientists, if they went to design school and studied in a computer lab!"
  created: '2010-04-06 21:03:31'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: Not sure what you are trying to say here. Are you implying that percentage
    is not a measure?
  created: '2010-04-06 22:32:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Only \"percentage x is of em\" is a measure. (The others are recursive if
    one is comparing typefaces, unless there is a benchmark typeface which all others
    are referenced against, proportionally.)\r\n\r\nHowever, \"percentage of em\"
    is arbitrary, as it is at the discretion of the foundry.\r\nFor instance, different
    foundries have versions of Futura scaled differently in relation to the em.\r\nSo
    what is the absolute size of a Futura dimension, set at a given point size?\r\nThere
    is no such thing, because \"Futura\" is a scalable typeface design."
  created: '2010-04-06 22:52:24'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I still want to know why typographers \u2026 or type designers for the matter,
    want to be applied scientists.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-07 04:13:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Science has the potential to support our claims with objective measure of
    human performance and empirical data (in addition to tradition, convention, aesthetics
    and intuition). In a struggling economy and environment is it of paramount importance
    that we guarantee our clients good return on investment and efficient consumption
    of resources. By employing scientific method we can not only validate and reproduce
    our claims, years of combined research will allow us to make more informed decisions
    in a more efficient manner. Look at how medicine has evolved.\r\n\r\nIn addition,
    by breaking type into clearly defined independent variables (size, weight, font,
    &c) and dependent variables (time, comprehension, visual search &c) we can determine
    which factors have more influence.\r\n\r\nIt may well be that we discover a lot
    of what we do has a significantly smaller effect on things such as reading comprehension
    than we assumed. What does this mean for typographers in general? Less work for
    one, or a perhaps a need for re-training. There will always be someone who wants
    to look cool though. Sex will always sell.\r\n\r\nHowever, it would allow us to
    direct our energies as practitioners into areas of greatest importance and to
    similarly re-direct our clients resources.\r\n\r\nFor example: Hypothetically,
    100 research scientists spend 100 years conducting hundreds of studies all of
    which show that hinting makes no significant difference on reading performance.
    What does this mean? That we stop spending hundreds of hours hinting fonts and
    do something else, like grow vegetables.\r\n\r\nIt would also allow us to say
    to our clients \"I understand that you want a perfectly hinted font, and I can
    do that, however, there has been a lot of research in this area that suggests
    it is of little value in terms of human performance and subjective response. As
    such, I cannot ethically take your money. I recommend you spend your budget on
    energy efficient light bulbs and solar panels instead.\"\r\n\r\nThe end result?
    We have fresh local produce for diner, our clients have a smaller carbon footprint
    and we send a few troops home to stop fighting over gasoline. Granted this is
    profoundly political at this point, but I believe it essential that all designers,
    typographers, citizens even, begin thinking this way in an effort to move towards
    a more sustainable future. Imagine if it all started with fonts\u2026"
  created: '2010-04-07 14:58:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Hypothetically, 100 research scientists spend 100 years conducting hundreds
    of studies all of which show that hinting makes no significant difference on reading
    performance. What does this mean?  \r\n\r\nThey used iPads for the study.\r\n\r\n>That
    we stop spending hundreds of hours hinting fonts and do something else, like grow
    vegetables\r\n\r\nMy plan exactly from 1999 until 2009. \r\n\r\n>The end result?\r\n\r\nPoor
    font technology remains in the hands of billions of users creating a huge drag
    on comprehension and communications globally. I hired someone else to tend the
    vegetables who doesn't want to hint, so now I can do both. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-07 15:13:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Hey David \u2014 Do you think if we hinted our vegetables, we\u2019d get
    a better yield? \r\n\r\nI\u2019ll have to see what my wife is planting this year.
    I mean, I don\u2019t know if I\u2019d spend the time on the root vegetables, but
    maybe we could hint the stems on the celery. \r\n\r\nAnd you know what they say
    about minding your peas and cukes.\r\n\r\nWhaddaya think? ;-)"
  created: '2010-04-07 16:21:37'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I understand what you are saying Christopher, but there are different things
    going on here. \r\n\r\n<cite>Science has the potential to support our claims</cite>\u2026\r\nYes.
    Of course. Science can also explain how a soccer ball finds its way into a net,
    but there is very little science on the mind of the person who kicks the ball.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-07 17:02:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...clearly defined independent variables (size, weight, font, &c)</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    it's not possible to clearly define or accurately measure any of those."
  created: '2010-04-07 18:35:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qSAK0N1Tgrs\r\n\r\nTinker, Miles A. (1965).
    <em>Bases for effective reading</em>. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota press."
  created: '2010-04-07 19:02:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2007/01/bend_it_like_bi.html
  created: '2010-04-07 19:14:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Christopher, I'm serious, how do scientists measure the size of a typeface?\r\nHow
    do they weigh a font? "
  created: '2010-04-07 19:20:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I don't want to generalize, but from first hand my experience, scientists
    go by point size to measure the size of typefaces they are comparing, and the
    effort it can take to explain why that is useless is really quite remarkable\u2026
    If good for a funny story over a beer. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 02:51:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Russ & Nick,\r\n\r\nlet's go have that beer!"
  created: '2010-04-08 04:05:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: As a manufacturer-determined dimension, type size may be compared to dress
    pattern size or the nominal size of timber, neither of which are empirically accurate.
  created: '2010-04-08 04:15:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bigger than a bread box and smaller than a suitcase :-)
  created: '2010-04-08 13:49:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, what measure you use depends on what scientific question you are asking,
    what you are testing for. That there is no single measure for all tests doesn't
    jeopardize the viability of scientific testing at all. \r\n\r\nWith latin fonts,
    one of the most important measures is the span of the visual arc taken up by the
    x-height at reading distance, as below a threshold for the visual arc legibility
    declines sharply. If I remember correctly from Kevin Larson the usual minimum
    for the arc is .3 degrees. "
  created: '2010-04-08 14:31:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In that case, what is \"reading distance\"?\r\nAnd how is x-height defined?\r\nDo
    readers tend to settle at a standard x-height : degree-of-arc ratio?\r\nOr are
    other typographic variable parameters involved?\r\n\r\nDo tests actually measure
    the \"normal\" eye-to-image distance of each participant?\r\nI was under the assumption
    that reading distance is fixed in most tests.\r\nAnd does everyone always read
    documents at a standard distance?\r\nDon't readers hold larger pages further away?\r\nAnd
    what of line length?\r\nIs there some relationship between optimum horizontal
    \"degree of arc\" scanning and vertical arc?\r\nHow much does \"normal\" vary?\r\nAre
    visual ergonomics as variable in people as other comfort factors? I suspect so.\r\n\r\n<em>That
    there is no single measure for all tests doesn't jeopardize the viability of scientific
    testing at all.</em>\r\n\r\nThat principle is not what I'm contesting.\r\nIMO,
    scientific testing is not viable because:\r\n- there are too many variables (demographic,
    typographic, physical media) to draw meaningful conclusions relating to generally
    predictable typographic practice\r\n- accurate measurement of most, if not all,
    variables, is not possible (the philosophical \"how big is the x-height\" problem)\r\n-
    speed/fluency of reading is not the sole criteria by which typography should be
    judged.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 17:33:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, all of your arguments, especially \"too many variables\" could have
    been made about the paths of the planets in the heavens before Newton--which wander
    all over the sky viewed from earth, according to no simple geometry. The theory-in
    this case Copernicus and then Newton's theory--is what enabled seeing a simple
    story behind the complex data. The number of variables is no barrier to doing
    science. Look at the number of variables in human blood. But when they identified
    that the one variable of insulin caused diabetes, they really had something. In
    other cases many variables may be involved, such as genes and chemical products
    of cells, but if you get theory of relationship between the variables right--like
    the relation between force, mass, and motion--you get tremendous insight and predictive
    power. \r\n\r\nThe .3 degree arc is defined in relation to the distance of the
    viewer from the text.  That's an example of how one variable is taken care of
    by the way you set up the test. You calculate the arc, given a distance from the
    screen or card. See, the extra variable of distance from the reading material
    poses no barrier to testing the theory. The point is that when you go below that
    threshold people have start to have greater and greater difficulty in reading
    the text. That's a law of reading, if I've got it right, and it's an example of
    the kind of thing that is impossible according to your flawed analysis. And it
    relates, I'm sure, to the closeness of the receptors in the fovea, which is a
    physical fact. \r\n\r\nThe fact that reading theory is in its beginning stages
    is no reason to throw up our hands and say \"too many variables!\" \"impossible!\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 17:58:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The theory-in this case Copernicus and then Newton's theory--is what enabled
    seeing a simple story behind the complex data\r\n\r\nBut I submit, nonetheless,
    that it is easier to leave an earthly perspective behind and view the solar system
    (literally), than it is to know what someone else just experienced for the first
    time. Even the simplest thing. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-08 19:52:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'David, I heard on the "brain" series on Charlie Rose that the human brain
    has more synapses than there are stars in the milky way. So yes, when it comes
    to the brain, you have awesome complexity. But I think some of the aspects of
    perception involved in reading promise to be easier to crack. '
  created: '2010-04-08 20:02:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, my \"too many variables\" is a parameter of cultural artefacts and
    human behaviour.\r\nThe belief that science is about to \"crack\" how we read
    and turn typography into a hard science is naive.\r\n\r\n<em>That's a law of reading,
    if I've got it right, and it's an example of the kind of thing that is impossible
    according to your flawed analysis.</em>\r\n\r\nI hardly think it's a law of reading
    that it helps to have the text at the right distance, not too small, not too big.\r\nThe
    cruciality of x-height has long been known to typographers.\r\n\r\n<em>...reading
    theory is in its beginning stages...</em>\r\n\r\nReading theory has been around
    a long time without making much progress.\r\n\r\nBut never mind vague generalizations
    about the scope of science, I am asking hard, practical questions axiomatic to
    the nature of the research. \r\n\r\nOnce again: how can a theory that, say, involves
    foveal density, arc of vision, and type size, be properly scientific if a variable
    such as the x-height of a typeface is impossible to measure accurately?\r\n\r\nNot
    everything can be simply measured: the question \"how long is the coast line of
    Britain\", which sparked fractal geometry, is of the same difficulty as the x-height
    problem. The present system of type measurement is not sufficient for the expectations
    that many people have that science will solve the reading puzzle.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 21:08:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The cruciality of x-height has long been known to typographers.\r\n\r\nSo
    what? Does that make the specific claim about the arc--which I don't think typographers
    had long ago--any less scientific?\r\n\r\n>if a variable such as the x-height
    of a typeface is impossible to measure accurately\r\n\r\nBut it is possible to
    measure it with sufficient accuracy. The topmost point of the x is good enough
    for almost every latin text font. Or you can take the definition in the software,
    or the average of flat height of vwxyz. It really doesn't matter because you are
    only going to get a variation of maybe 3% even with the overshoot height. The
    claim is with the x height that at .3 degrees relative to the viewer's eye, you
    have readability, and below that it starts falling off. The .3 degrees you could
    specify as plus or minus 10% (.03) and it would still be true. \r\n\r\nYou seem
    to think that problems that can easily be dealt with mathematically--such as by
    specifying a range or interval rather than a single number--are somehow insuperable
    obstacles to science, whereas they are no barrier at all.    \r\n\r\nI get the
    feeling that you think a scientific claim like that about the visual degrees is
    some way a threat to the legitimacy of art, which it isn't in the least. \r\n\r\nAnd
    the thing about the arc could be useful to sign makers. If you want to know how
    big your letters have to be on a yet-to-be-built building, figuring the distance
    of the viewer and the needed arc would give you useful information. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not saying that this is any earth shaking new information, but it is a scientific,
    and I think valid claim about reading that is useful. I don't see why there can't
    be lots more. "
  created: '2010-04-08 21:55:16'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Graphic1_6111.png]\r\nChimpanzees and
    bonobos have been taught to read Yerkish, an artificial language composed of lexigrams
    constructed from nine basic elements, with nuance added with color. Is there any
    particular reason why the lexigram on the left should be more comprehensible than
    the one on the right? They both say exactly the same thing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 22:06:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill this has nothing to do with art vs. science.\r\nI am all for science,
    which is why I object to the bad science that is generally involved with reading
    research.\r\n\r\nYou are right, arc of vision is indeed a legitimate measure of
    the height of the lower case x glyph in a piece of typography.\r\nIn that case,
    why is most reading research done using manufacturer's point size? \r\nAnd unless
    a font size standard based on \"x-height in degrees of arc of vision\" is implemented,
    of what practical use can such research be?\r\n\r\nCompare Adobe Futura with URW
    Futura: Adobe's x-height is 15% larger than URW's at any given point size.\r\nCompare
    Adobe Futura with Century Gothic: again, the difference in x-height is 15%.\r\nThese
    are not insignificant amounts.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, when people speak of x-height
    in relation to readability -- both typographers and scientists -- they generally
    understand it to mean proportion of cap or ascender height. Degree-of-arc research
    doesn't address that issue at all.\r\n\r\nI am also concerned that scientific
    research is a threat to good typographers and to the business of type design.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, the CNIB (Canadian Institute for the Blind) recommends Arial and Verdana
    as the go-to faces for accessible typography (which is being legislated by government).
    Joe Clark took them to task over this in 2006, but it is still recommending those
    faces, backed up by its 2007 literature review of readability studies in which
    Arial usually manages to outperform Times Roman, often in RSVP (Rapid Sequential
    Visual Presentation) set-ups!\r\n\r\nIt would be responsible for all readability
    researchers to NOT name the faces they are using.\r\nWhat we have is product testing
    of a minuscule sample of the entire font population.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 23:44:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">In that case, why is most reading research done using manufacturer's point
    size?\r\n\r\nIf you ask me, there is a lot of pretty poor methodology going on
    in psychological research into reading, particularly as concerns typography. There
    is too little development of good theory, and as a result experiments that don't
    tell you much. \r\n\r\n>I am also concerned that scientific research is a threat
    to good typographers and to the business of type design.\r\n\r\nIf you qualify
    that as \"poor\" scientific research we would be in agreement. There has been
    a lot of work claiming to prove, eg. the superiority of Arial that is typographically
    naive--meaning that it doesn't even have the understanding of type of sophisticated
    typographers, much less shed new light. As a result false conclusions are supported
    with slapdash experiments that don't prove what is claimed to be proved.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem isn't science, but fake science and poor science. Unfortunately, there
    have been a lot of claims, eg about sans vs serif that is not supported by evidence.
    \r\n\r\nWhile at Atlanta's TypeCon, I talked with my friend and fellow philosopher
    of science, Nancy Nersessian. She is at Georgia Tech, and has been Chair of the
    Cognitive Science Society, and is currently on the board of the Cognitive Science
    Journal. When I talked with her, she shared my concern about the state methodology
    in the field, and the need for more effort to build good theories and models.
    Good experiments come from good ideas. Without good ideas, the experiments tell
    little or are misleading. \r\n\r\nSo I share your concern about the baneful influence
    of poor research. But the prescription should be better research, not no research.
    \ "
  created: '2010-04-09 01:12:07'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "I've been reading this thread over the past few days to see how the discussion
    has evolved. As a former engineer, I'm used to the idea of using measurements
    and data, and Bill and Nick have been very eloquent about the potential and pitfalls
    of undertaking a scientific approach to typography, but what I am curious about
    is whether such a science can do much to change the way we use type. \r\n\r\nIf
    choosing type was only about finding alphabets that we could comfortably and accurately
    read on various surfaces, and at various sizes, then I am sure we could have stopped
    long ago. A handful of typefaces could surely satisfy such a simple set of requirements.
    \r\n\r\nThat would be like saying that simple one-celled organisms meet the criteria
    for life once they could reproduce themselves, so let's stop there. This planet
    has myriads of opportunities for doing more than that and it has taken them, in
    wonderful, bewildering and probably countless ways. \r\n\r\nThe idea of using
    symbols for communicating is like the single-celled organism with a planet to
    fill. You'll no doubt recall that Latin glyphs are not the only way we have done
    this, and that in the 'natural selection' of the evolution of type there have
    been many successful branches on the 'Tree of Type', and there will probably be
    more of them in the future. The 'ecological niches' for type keep expanding and
    changing, in cycles of tastes, technologies and understandings about what succeeds.
    At the root of both the living world and of the type world is the need to compete.
    You can play with the analogies all day, but the idea that there are various successful
    strategies (readability is just one of them), almost to the point of infinity,
    is why I don't think typographers, or type designers will ever need to worry that
    they will run out of work."
  created: '2010-04-09 16:19:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Mike, I agree with you that science will not hamper the business of typographers
    and type designers. Those businesses are more subject to the winds of technological
    change and the state of the economy. \r\n\r\nI do think that good science can
    potentially be helpful to getting good typography. For example, if we had a chart
    plotting reading fatigue of say Times New Roman as currently hinted on the screen
    against screen resolution, that might tell us something interesting. For example,
    if there is a threshold at, say 200 dpi where fatigue declines precipitously,
    that would get screens that are better for reading. \r\n\r\nThere are a lot of
    other question of course, and it may be that they say that, for example Arial
    is worse for readability, within a fixed paper area and text length, than Times
    New Roman for print text. But if so, such information will just give designers
    better guidelines for producing readable text type. Will it hurt the popularity
    of Arial--or Times New Roman? Yes, but then the reader will be the beneficiary,
    so I don't think designers will have the right to complain. They will just need
    to reflect the new and correct knowledge in their designs. \r\n  "
  created: '2010-04-09 17:06:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It is not JUST an issue of good or bad science, it is also good or bad interpretation
    of results which can do more harm than good. See all the "Arial is the best..."
    stuff.
  created: '2010-04-09 17:08:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Good or bad interpretation of results by scientists IS good or bad science.
    And that has been some of the problem. Journalists also often mess it up further,
    and often more egregiously. But I still think the basic thing is the lack of good
    theory and clear experimental results. '
  created: '2010-04-09 17:19:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Will it hurt the popularity of Arial--or Times New Roman? Yes, but then
    the reader will be the beneficiary, so I don't think designers will have the right
    to complain. </em>\r\n\r\nSorry Bill, are we talking about scientific research
    or Consumer Reports?\r\nThis practice of naming proprietary typefaces in reading
    research has got to stop.\r\nIt robs the work of credibility, and is harmful to
    type culture and the font industry in general.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 17:30:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, you have a point. It would be better to characterize a class of design,
    and relate to that. But the reality is that they are going to have to use specific
    typefaces for tests, and have to report what they are. Their experimental design
    and conclusions will hopefully be able to be more general. '
  created: '2010-04-09 18:08:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the reader will be the beneficiary,\"\r\n\r\nThe reader is likely to be
    THE bad interpreter of scientific research results.\r\n\r\nIf a study which compared
    Arial, TNR, Curlz, Comic Sans, and Papyrus has a conclusion that Arial was the
    readability winner, all the READER remembers out of it is \"best results come
    from using Arial\". If that reader is also an editor who then demands that his
    graphic designer or typesetter use Arial, because \"Scientists say 'best results
    come from using Arial' and scientists are always right.\"\r\n\r\nLater, if People
    Magazine, TIME Magazine, or Educators Monthly, quotes results of the study proving
    \"best results come from using Arial\" then school teachers, CEOs, and PTA Boards
    have THE answer to readability which we all CERTAINLY know (say it with me now)
    \"best results come from using Arial\".\r\n\r\nIf well intentioned research yields
    negative actions from naive readers, that research has done more HARM than good.
    Ergo, \"no research causes less harm than bad research.\""
  created: '2010-04-09 18:23:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kent: <em>Do you think if we hinted our vegetables, we\u2019d get a better
    yield?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. We <a href=\"http://www.squarefootgardening.com/\">grid-fitted</a>
    our garden last year, and the results have been excellent."
  created: '2010-04-09 19:12:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But the reality is that they are going to have to use specific typefaces
    for tests, and have to report what they are. </em>\r\n\r\nNo, they don't have
    to.\r\nYager et al (Vision Research, 1998) compared \"Swiss\" with \"Dutch\"."
  created: '2010-04-09 19:33:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I meant the readers would benefit through improved typography, not
    by their direct judgments. \r\n\r\nNick, I think if they can deal with classes
    it's definitely better, but from the point of view of reproducibility, I think
    it is best if they have precise info available in some way. "
  created: '2010-04-09 20:04:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">We grid-fitted our garden last year, and the results have been excellent.\r\n\r\nBut
    as you can see, the plants themselves do not grow and remain grid-fit, just the
    plots they are in. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-10 15:50:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...from the point of view of reproducibility, I think it is best if they
    have precise info available in some way.</em>\r\n\r\nExact typeface is unnecessary,
    one might just as well require that the same readers be used.\r\nI doubt that
    any test would be able to discern a speed difference between the \"Swiss\" types,
    Arial, Helvetica, Akzidenz, Folio, Mercator, Chalet, &c. &c. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-13 04:38:53'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "can applied scientists be typographers?\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201CA scientist approaches
    a problem by carefully designing its parameters, seeking out relevant information,
    and subjecting proposed solutions to rigorous testing. The scientific view of
    the world leads a person to be skeptical about what he or she reads or hears in
    popular media. Having a scientific outlook leads a person to question the validity
    of provocative statements made in the media and to find out what scientific studies
    say about those statements. In short, and individual with a scientific outlook
    does not accept everything at face value.\u201D (Bordens & Abbott, 2008).</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is how most people think when they go shopping. "
  created: '2010-04-13 17:35:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"<em>This is how most people think when they go shopping</em>.\"\r\n\r\n<a
    href =\"http://wallmart.com/\">Doubtfull</a>."
  created: '2010-04-13 22:17:45'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: No, actually.  Walmart is a really good example. This is all about "the cost
    of everything and the value of nothing," in a sense.
  created: '2010-04-14 00:44:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Allrighty then, how about <strong><a href =\"http://mcdonalds.com/\">this</a></strong>!\r\n\r\n(I'm
    pretty sure they aren't reading the ingredients \u2014 aka making informed decisions)"
  created: '2010-04-14 02:03:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I have seen <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_angle\">visual
    angle</a> used to describe typesize.\r\n\r\nAnother example:\r\n\r\n<cite>Times
    Roman 13 point was used for the roman typeface and Helvetica 12 point for the
    sans serif typeface in this experiment. Type size, weight, line and letter spacing
    of the two faces were matched closely by means of computer software. The heights
    of the lower case letter x of Helvetica and Times Roman were respectively 2.30
    mm and 2.25 mm. The height of the Times Roman capitals was 3.3 mm, and those of
    Helvetica 3.0 mm. (De Lange et al. 1993, p 244)</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 16:28:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "IMO Visual Angle is the most scientific measurement of type size.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the 13 pt Times vs 12 pt Helvetica experiment: an interesting comparison of single
    vs. double-bowl \"g\" :-)\r\nBut seriously, why didn't they just use a superfamily
    that already has matched proportions and letterforms, if the purpose of the test
    is to compare serif vs. sans? Or would that involve too much common sense, not
    to mention the expense of actually licensing fonts?"
  created: '2010-04-26 17:29:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Re visual angle: Agreed. \r\n\r\nAnd the corporate conflict of interest regarding
    mentioning the names of the typefaces versus the ability to reproduce results
    is also a very interesting debate (for a future thread)."
  created: '2010-04-26 17:39:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Is visual angle accounting for lateral dimensions as well as vertical?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 17:49:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Visual angle can be used on any axis. In type studies it is most often is
    used vertically to describe x height and type size. Off the top of my head I can't
    recall anyone using visual angle to describe horizontal measures, be they character,
    word, line or page.
  created: '2010-04-26 19:30:35'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "be it up & down or left & right, size matters, does it not? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That would be the long and the short of it, Russ :-)
  created: '2010-04-26 22:03:53'
date: '2010-03-23 23:32:46'
title: Can typographers be applied scientists?

---
