---
author:
  name: julesstirling
body: "Hi all probably going to make a total hash of this.\r\nim in urgent need of
  finding this font , its used on the front cover of the uk release of the 2009 film
  \"Dead Snow\" , i would guess its a ww2 german font. just wondered if anyone could
  find what it is or something very  close?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dvdtimes.co.uk/protectedimage.php?image=CoverArt/deadsnow_r2front.jpg_22072009\r\n\r\ni
  hope that works , it probably doesnt as i am technologically retarded.\r\nif not
  a seacrch of \"dead snow uk\" on google images brings it it.\r\n\r\nmany thanks
  \r\nJules"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "I don\u2019t think it\u2019s a font.\r\nBut looks like a fun movie.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dead-Snow-DVD-Cover_6509.jpg]"
  created: '2010-03-29 22:57:31'
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: 'You can get near with <a href="http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/steffmann/samples/t/tannenbg.htm">Tannenberg</a>
    plus some modifications. '
  created: '2010-03-30 12:00:41'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Or try the pre-distressed Adhesive Nr. Seven:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/phospho/adhesive-nr-seven/"
  created: '2010-03-30 17:26:54'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "The use of the item \"Schaftstiefelgrotesk\" is unprofessional, I think.\r\nWe
    had this discussion more than once.\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-31 21:53:55'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Why do you think so, Georg? And who - other than professionals - do use (or
    have used) this term?
  created: '2010-04-01 13:55:53'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "EIN! ZWEI! COMIC SANS? \r\n\r\ntrailer:\r\nhttp://www.deadsnow.com/"
  created: '2010-04-01 14:08:01'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ Florian\r\n\r\n\"Schaftstiefel Grotesk\" is a political statement. Which
    was used first from the mostly socialdemocratic or socialistic workers in the
    printer's industry in Germany. I do not have a problem with these guys, it was
    their opinion and that's all. \r\n\r\nBut we as typographic pros should not give
    a political statement about a font. Call it a good one or a bad one, a beauty
    or ugly. But you would not call a font a democratic one or a socialist one, do
    you? It says nothing about a font, but more about the political thinking of the
    speaker. And this does not belong to a statement of a font (from pro side). Otherwise
    we should include an option to check all fonts in general if it is political correct
    or not.\r\n\r\nThat's what I think. \r\nPlease take it as a constructive suggestion
    to your excellent work, Florian.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-02 08:49:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm away from my library at the moment, but didn't the late Hans Peter Willberg
    refer to these sorts of typefaces as <em>Schaftstiefel Grotesks</em> in his book
    <em>Typolemik</em> ?\r\n\r\nIf the term was good enough for Willberg, then it
    is good enough for me. Yes, I realize that even this is a political statement\u2026
    but it is one that I am quite comfortable in making."
  created: '2010-04-02 14:15:30'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Did he? So what?\r\nBut of course its on you, to follow a wrong opinion by
    seing a font from a political standpoint, Dan, like Willberg did.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-02 21:06:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Being able to find good, reliable sources in print is an excellent thing.
    It helps one form better judgement. When one is defining one's own beliefs and
    practices, it is helpful to see who had held similar standpoints before, and why.
    Sources are strengthened by the other things that they did, wrote, and made in
    their careers, in parallel to this. So, quoting Willberg alone is not necessarily
    enough. But, I consider Willberg's writings to be an excellent source for many
    matters of book design and German-language typesetting. I regularly consult Willberg's
    texts on a number of matters. But I also consult a number of other texts by other
    authors, and I consult with living, breathing designers, too (although admittedly,
    some of these designers are Willberg students\u2026)\r\n\r\nThat aside, I would
    call these nasty designs <em>Schaftstiefel Grotesks</em>, whether Willberg did
    or not, because I think that this term puts their design in a helpful political
    context (to assume that design is not political seems quite a silly notion to
    me\u2026 design is political, history is even more political, and interpretations
    of history are even more political than that). But having Willberg in my corner
    on this is just a bonus."
  created: '2010-04-03 08:33:16'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "This discussion has been interesting, in a way, but for a non-German speaker
    like me, I have no idea what \"Schaftstiefel\" means, or implies, although from
    what Georg says I can guess. Can either Dan or Georg please explain the context
    for those of us who are not aware of this particular expression?\r\n\r\n- Mike
    Yanega"
  created: '2010-04-03 16:31:42'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Schaftstiefel are basically boots without laces. They were worn by German
    soldiers in both WWs. The soldiers called them Knobelbecher (dice cup).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Knobelbecher_4330.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-03 19:58:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: " [[http://dictionary.reverso.net/german-english/Schaftstiefel|This internet
    translator]]  gives \"schlaftstiefel\" as \"jackboot.\" That's probably the right
    translation as according to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackboot|wikipedia
    article on jackboots]] the term is strongly associated with fascism and Nazism
    in English. \r\n\r\nSo \"jackboot blackletter\" looks like a good translation.
    Whether it is a bad or good idea to call this style fonts with that name that
    I leave to others, as I don't plan on designing any of this style very soon :)
    \  "
  created: '2010-04-03 20:34:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Mike, William hits the nail exactly. In English, I would say "Jackboot Grotesk".
    This is exactly the kind of political message I associate with these typefaces
    when I see them.
  created: '2010-04-03 21:36:44'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Dan, this is the point.\r\nYou say, you see font (font or fonts?) as a kind
    of political message. This is your point of view. \r\n\r\nI say, that this is
    a wrong, unprofessional way of seing fonts.\r\n\r\nCan you please show me a democratic
    font? Or a republic font? Are there any royal fonts? What about stalinistic fonts?
    Were their in use after Stalin died? And if... why? Does it mean, the post-stalinistic
    fonts used after his dead show... well... what would it show?\r\n\r\nTannenberg
    was used after WWII, e.g. from the protestant church in Germany:\r\nhttp://de.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Datei:Tannenberg_sample.png&filetimestamp=20060112134721\r\n\r\nWere
    these christians going the same way like \"Schaftstiefel\" = Nazi? Uh, uhhh...\r\n\r\nTo
    see fonts in a political matter, is a first step to classify human beings by using
    of the fonts, they use for their prints. I think its wrong.\r\n\r\nOf course I
    respect Willberg. But going away fromt the world of typography, he is not longer
    \"god\", he fails as everyone does. He does not have more authority everybody
    has.\r\n\r\nCall these fonts ugly or whatever. But do not call them with an item,
    which is like... what means \"Faschismus Keule\" in english, please?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 22:25:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, I don't believe in heroes. But Willberg does has authority, or more
    authority than many do. He has\u2014for example\u2014more authority than I do.
    He has written books that have been published, and have gone through peer review.
    This means that his opinions are not voices from the wilderness, but are statements
    that others are willing to go behind. I agree with them.\r\n\r\nBut I do not call
    these fonts by this name because Willberg did. I call them that because I find
    the term appropriate. That Willberg might have viewed them similarly is just cream
    on top of this. But even if Willberg hadn't thought this, I would still find these
    font distasteful.\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of fonts with political messages. There
    are typefaces that are definitely Royal, and that I associate with Monarchy as
    a form of government (Romain du Roi, but also the Petrine Cyrillic reforms, and
    any typeface ever used by an Imprimerie Royal, a Reichsdruckerei, or Her Majesty's
    Stationery Office.\r\n\r\nAs for imperialistic fonts\u2026 well, Trajan! I've
    seen Soviet memorials with very Roman-like capitals. It fits perfectly, I think.\r\n\r\n><em>You
    say, you see font (font or fonts?) as a kind of political message. This is your
    point of view.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's right, it is my point of view. When I write,
    I gladly speak my own point of view. It is a free country (and a free Internet)
    after all. And I think that the \"Schaftstiefelgrotesks\" are fascist. I don't
    believe in banning them (I don't believe in banning any speech). But I think that
    their use today\u2014outside of certain historical applications\u2014is just distasteful.\r\n\r\nAs
    for horror movies where the bad guys are zombie Nazi solidiers\u2026 but all means!
    I think that the Schaftstiefelgrotesks & Co. are great in this sort of thing.
    Also for museum pieces about the 1930s. But probably not for much else\u2026"
  created: '2010-04-03 22:41:20'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"And I think that the \"Schaftstiefelgrotesks\" are fascist.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    make me tired, Dan.\r\n\r\nLet's stop it right here and let's come back to all
    the wonderful fonts of the Free World.\r\nGod bless America. Let's burn the fascist
    bitches of the world. Don't care about details, just burn them. And take care
    of everyone, who's giving protest. Or, better, burn him, too. \r\n\r\nYes to the
    freedom of the real democratic way of life. \r\nWhat fonts do the Taliban use?
    Nuke 'em.\r\n\r\nAmerican follow-puritism at its best.\r\n\r\nAmen.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-04 10:12:25'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Call it a good one or a bad one, a beauty or ugly. But you would not
    call a font a democratic one or a socialist one, do you?</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd that
    is not only true for fonts. Thinking, that everything, which a slaughterman of
    humans makes, is bad, is a limited world view. With regard to aesthetics or functionality
    even the person behind a piece of art or any invention, is totally unimportant!
    Just read the prologue of Oscar Wilde\u2019s <em>Dorian Gray</em>. If George Bush,
    Dick Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld or Sarah Palin had written good poems, I would not
    less appreciate their poems than the good poems of authors that are not criminal,
    fascistic or simple-minded. Yes, even a simple minded person can create a great
    piece of art. It may be, that it was not intended, but that is unimportant. It
    is not important, what the author wants to say, but it is important, what the
    piece of art is saying. Things work or they don\u2019t work or they are half-baked.
    They are ugly or beautiful or boring. That\u2019s all.\r\n\r\nNevertheless a font
    like Tannenberg can be the best choice for the poster of such a splatter film.
    It is not good for the rehabilitation of that typeface, because it forces prejudices
    again, but you cannot expect not to use that typeface in such a context only,
    because you want to see that typeface unshackled from the prejudices.\r\n\r\n<em>Ein
    [sic!], zwei, die</em> is even wrong German orthography."
  created: '2010-04-04 12:29:29'
- author:
    name: bowfinpw
    picture: 110174
  body: "This has been very interesting to read, and many of you have made good points,
    in my opinion. If this term has a special (negative) meaning to Germans, I suppose
    I would respect that. For me, I thought perhaps this would a way of time-tagging
    a font, the way we say Art Nouveau, Art Deco, Bauhaus, Seventies, or Techno (Futuristic).
    The Nazi-era is certainly a time period of German (and World) history. Perhaps
    saying \"WWII German style\" would raise fewer objections, or unpleasant meanings
    to people. I suppose if there were a font, or style, that represented American
    racism I too would be sensitive, and object, if someone called something a (N-word)
    font. Maybe that is a way for me to understand this argument. Some terms are too
    charged, perhaps, to be used without causing offense, or misunderstanding. It
    seems like a good idea to avoid such names, if you realize the effect they may
    have.\r\n\r\n- Mike Yanega "
  created: '2010-04-04 14:36:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bleisetzer, your ad hominem criticism of Dan and all Americans seems to indicate
    that you don't have any other argument. \r\n\r\nThe heavy, angular style of Tannenberg
    is well suited to conveying a brutal message. That's why, out of the many typefaces
    used by the Nazis, it keeps being associated with them. And evidently why the
    name Schlaftstiefel or Jackboot grotesk has stuck to this style. It's not going
    to stop\u2014neither the association nor the name. \r\n\r\nPersonally I hope writers
    keep using the Nazis as the quintessential bad guys, with swastika, jackboots,
    heavy black letter and all. Never forget. "
  created: '2010-04-04 14:37:45'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\nThe Swastika has a history of thousands of years. It is
    a very important artifact of the human culture. And it should be rehabilitated
    even in Israel. The form variations of the Swastika are enormous. And personally
    I love the Swastika. I even consider submitting an online-petition to the Bundestag,
    the German parliament. As far as I know, it fortunately was refused to forbid
    the Swastika in whole Europe, when this was a topic in the discussion of the European
    parliament. Really, it is simple-minded to forbid it. That are symbol politics.
    Tolerance does not mean to do everything just for satisfying simple minds.\r\n\r\nAnother
    example:\r\n\r\nThe explosion of a nuclear bomb is an extremely aesthetic event!
    Pure beauty! But saying that does not mean, that the speaker wants, that nuclear
    bombs explode. The one is a movie or an image or seen from a big distance, the
    other is naked reality. That is the meaning of \"Ceci n\u2019est pas une pipe\"!
    And in contradiction to a nuclear bomb, a symbol, even the sharpest drawn two-dimensional
    sign, is softer than warm butter and cannot hurt anyone."
  created: '2010-04-04 17:33:59'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "I agree with Mike Y. This is exactly, what I mean.\r\n\r\nTo call a font
    (Tannenberg) \"Schaftstiefel\" font (what means, with Dan's words: facism font),
    means to call Erich Meyer, the developer, a fascist or a supporter of fascists.
    It means to call D. Stempel AG in 1934, where they went into the market with Tannenberg,
    a facistic company or a support company of fascists. And what about the huge number
    of typographists, which used it within the next years? Fascists? \r\n\r\n@ William
    Berkson\r\nI do not critizise Dan. I critizise his way of thinking about Tannenberg
    as a fascism font. This is a very other thing. And what I think about US (not
    the americans), is not forbidden. Yet. But wait some more years... but this would
    be another thread.\r\nLots of not professional people worldwide think about Blackletters
    \"Nazi fonts\". And you know that. And although you know, that its wrong. \r\nIt
    must be possible for me (or others), to critizise someone, speaking about Tannenberg
    as a fasicsm font, without to have the duty to explain my personal politician
    view of things. And without a *) foodnote, which says \"I am no Nazi\". This is
    exactly where things are going to if someone does not agree with the liberal anti-fascism
    opinion. Its the result of the american puritanism, which became the political
    correctness of today. So stop with it, please.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-04 18:14:56'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In Germany, of course, Swastika are forbidden striktly. You go into jail,
    if you use it. If they announce the increasing numbers of criminals, coming from
    Neo-Nazi side in Germany, like she did two weeks ago, they add kids, spraying
    Swastika anywhere.\r\n\r\nSome years ago we were in Fuerteventura, Spain, for
    vacation and had dinner in a chinese restaurant. Because it was windy, the waiter
    brought the bill with a piece of heavy plastic to us after dinner. It looked like
    a keyholder. I took it and saw a large Nazi Swastika on it. (Yes, I know of course
    the story of Swastika). I was _very_ surprised. He offered it to me to take it
    with me as a souvenir. But this would mean to get a realistic chance to get a
    lot of trouble in Germany with the custom or later on. "
  created: '2010-04-04 18:26:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Georg, you wrote, implying that this is *the* American attitude: \"Let's
    burn the fascist bitches of the world. Don't care about details, just burn them.
    And take care of everyone, who's giving protest. Or, better, burn him, too.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is thoughtless, insulting and untrue anti-Americanism. \r\n\r\nYes we have far
    too many intolerant people\u2014and so do German-speaking countries. We have recently
    elected our first American of partly African ancestry to President\u2014in my
    opinion our best in a long time\u2014by a substantial majority. This is not the
    act of a bunch of intolerant and ignorant people. True, we have recently had a
    frightening backlash, including some violence. But this indicates that every society
    has to fight intolerance and ignorance in itself. No society has ever been free
    of these forces. \r\n\r\nWhen you use such inflammatory language it just stirs
    up the \"us against them\" attitudes that breed intolerance. "
  created: '2010-04-04 19:04:41'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, William, this is my sarcastic and/or ironic kind of humor. I know that
    \"the\" americans do not longer burn bitches, black people or whomever.\r\n\r\nNot
    your americans are intolerant. I've been in the US and worked there. But your
    system is it to others. But this has nothing to do with you and Dan and me and
    Tannenberg.\r\n\r\nWhat font does the US army use in Afghanistan? Is it a imperialistic
    font, because the US take care for a strong strategic position in this area and
    seeks for oil and place for pipelines and whatever? Or is it a Peace Keeping font,
    because - sorry, I forgot it before, the US is fighting terrorism over there?
    Dan says, lots of fonts are politician ones. So, tell me.\r\n\r\nIf I hurt you
    with my opinion about US, I want to say sorry - seriously. I am german, patriotic
    with national thinking. I know, what it means to hear defamations about his country."
  created: '2010-04-04 20:33:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Georg, I'm a patriot, but patriotism is a dangerous emotion, often appealed
    to for very bad reasons. I'm not offended by your attack on the US, but I don't
    like to let anti-American bigotry pass without comment. \r\n\r\nYes we are fighting
    enemies who use terror tactics in Afghanistan. Have you forgotten about the attacks
    on New York and Washington by Al Qaeda? They not only attacked us violently but
    continue to declare that they will do everything to attack us further. We are
    not in Afghanistan for capricious reasons or for oil\u2014if they even have any.
    The question of how wisely we have been fighting Al Qaeda is another question,
    on which a lot can be said, but not on this forum.  \r\n\r\nDo you think that
    self-defense is illegitimate?  "
  created: '2010-04-04 21:14:39'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Yes, they brought the war back to its roots. That's right.\r\nI think: If
    you want to discuss it with me, send me an email, and we can do it.\r\nBut not
    here. \r\n\r\nThis should be a place were we discuss e.g. if a font is facistic
    or not.\r\nYou forgot to answer my question about the font, the US army uses.
    Sorry.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-04 21:19:57'
- author:
    name: showboy1080
    picture: 119655
  body: "It seems hand-drawn. \r\nI want the font...if it exists, though."
  created: '2010-04-04 22:22:34'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I cannot resist. It already is political! I am not a patriot and I cannot
    comprehend, how one can be a patriot. I think it is normal, when you are shaped
    by the country, in which you were born and in which you have spent the most time
    of your life. But there is something, in which Germans are really different from
    US-Americans: When we are in war, and actually we are in war, we don\u2019t necessarily
    support our government in its decision.\r\n\r\n@ William\r\n\r\n<cite>We are not
    in Afghanistan for capricious reasons or for oil\u2014if they even have any. The
    question of how wisely we have been fighting Al Qaeda is another question, on
    which a lot can be said, but not on this forum.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s just
    what I mean. Your criticism is so limited, although you probably have a higher
    IQ than the average. You are in Afghanistan for strategic reasons. Naturally you
    begin (!) wars because of oil and because of some weapon lobbyists, that have
    their feet in the door of US-American politics.\r\n\r\nAnd under Obama the waterboarders
    are not punished yet. Guantanamo is not closed yet. And the US-Marines have scopes
    with embossed Bibel codes on their guns. The US-American attitude in contact with
    many other peoples is fascism. And the fight against the terror in the USA, namely
    things like the patriot act, is a fight against the own population. For me the
    USA are not a democracy and my own country, Germany, neither. And the US-American
    frequently invoked freedom is just a cage. Not other countries are a danger for
    US-American interests but the USA are a danger for themselves. There are a thousand
    times more US-American victims of the US-American capitalism than there are victims
    of Al Qaeda.\r\n\r\nIn a democracy no CIA had started a war against <a href=http://wikileaks.org/>WikiLeaks</a>.
    WikiLeaks would even not be needed. "
  created: '2010-04-05 00:03:27'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "If there\u2019s one thing the Nazis were good at it\u2019s branding and propaganda.
    The bizarre and fascinating imagery they left behind has served as the perfect
    clich\xE9 for \u201Cthe bad guys\u201D ever since (as William proved). And yes,
    Tannenberg surely is part of that. It was named after the battle of Tannenberg,
    a strong reference to nationalism. It reminds me a lot of the germanic runes the
    Nazis liked so much (SS-logo), more than the New Typography of the 20s that\u2019s
    being mentioned as an influence (Grotesk/monoline). I think it perfectly fitted
    the Nazi\u2019s idea of what they considered modern. There\u2019s no way of seeing
    Tannenberg out of context."
  created: '2010-04-05 00:18:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "So far as I know, the US army uses the same fonts as everybody else in the
    US and Europe. So better stop using Verdana and Georgia. They just smell of oil-imperialism
    :)\r\n\r\nI'm not going to continue this, because everyone has aired their views,
    and from the tone so far, further discussion is not likely to be productive.   \r\n\r\nAs
    far as the association of Tannenberg with Nazism, I think Jan put it very well\u2014thanks.
    Of course there is no logically necessary association, but there is a strong historical
    and aesthetic one, and probably it's never going to go away. It's not what you
    or I like, it's just reality. "
  created: '2010-04-05 03:11:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 04:34:22'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, but \"It was named after the battle of Tannenberg, a strong reference
    to nationalism.\" is wrong. It is part of the re-eduction program (see Google),
    built up from the US government, continued still today from the Germany Satellite
    system.\r\n\r\nSome facts:\r\nIn 1914 around Germany was the so called Triple
    Entente, UK, France, Russia. Germany had to fight in the west and in the east.
    Most of the troops were sent to the east of Germany, were Russian troops attacked
    Germany. And the \"wonder of Tannenberg\" happened. The german generals Hindenburg
    and Ludendorff beat the russian troops. So they could move the troops to the western
    front. From military sight this was a big success, a strategic master piece.\r\n\r\nAll
    nations in 1914 were imperialistic and nationalistic. See UK and its \"Imperium\"
    with all the colonies. France was in the same situation. See Lusitania, which
    was bombed by german submarine in 1915 with 128 americans, who died. The british
    marine sent lots of ammunition with the ship. They did it in the hope, that the
    US would join the war. What they did in 1917.\r\n\r\nDon't believe re-education
    and history of the winners, without looking for objective informations before.\r\n\r\nAfghanistan
    is the new Vietnam of the US. I am waiting for a new protest movement like we
    had in 1968. A worldwide movement to stop these wars. Afghanistan is not our war
    in Germany. Its an US war, and we give troops to support it. That is wrong. Let
    these people live in their own way in Afghanistan.\r\n\r\n\"So better stop using
    Verdana and Georgia. They just smell of oil-imperialism :)\"\r\n\r\nI totally
    agree with you. So do not call Tannenberg a \"Schaftstiefel\" = Nazi font. Or
    call Verdana and Georgia an oil-imperialistic font. Its up to you to show a professional
    attitude to fonts or not.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-05 08:49:55'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I wish that the German army had lost that battle against the Russians in
    1914. Maybe the 20th century would have been a more peaceful time if they had
    not won the battle. Who knows? That is the thing with history. In any event, I
    certainly wouldn't refer to that battle as a a \"miracle.\"\r\n\r\n><em>If there\u2019s
    one thing the Nazis were good at it\u2019s branding and propaganda. The bizarre
    and fascinating imagery they left behind has served as the perfect clich\xE9 for
    \u201Cthe bad guys\u201D ever since (as William proved). And yes, Tannenberg surely
    is part of that. It was named after the battle of Tannenberg, a strong reference
    to nationalism. It reminds me a lot of the germanic runes the Nazis liked so much
    (SS-logo), more than the New Typography of the 20s that\u2019s being mentioned
    as an influence (Grotesk/monoline). I think it perfectly fitted the Nazi\u2019s
    idea of what they considered modern. There\u2019s no way of seeing Tannenberg
    out of context.</em>\r\n\r\nOnce again, Jan has hit the nail on the head for me.
    He has summed up the point better than I can, and with far fewer words. This is
    a good summary of how I view the Tannenberg typeface. I don't think that I have
    anything further that I can add to this conversation."
  created: '2010-04-05 10:44:34'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If there\u2019s one thing the Nazis were good at it\u2019s branding
    and propaganda.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t own that book, but the publishing house
    is almost a guarantee for quality: <strong><a href=\"http://www.typografie.de/Our-Books/Graphic-design/Andreas-Koop/NSCI::670.html\">NSCI.</a></strong>\r\n\r\n-------------\r\n\r\nStill
    one of my favorites of the <strong><a href=\"http://www.csszengarden.com/\">CSS
    Zen Garden</a>: <a href=\"http://www.csszengarden.com/?cssfile=199/199.css\">Zen
    Army</a>.<strong>\r\n\r\nWell, in case of text that is set in stencil typefaces
    I think, the reason for the use in the US military context is the way, in which
    they were branded in the wood/material."
  created: '2010-04-05 11:10:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just checking on Tannenberg. According to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Tannenberg_%281914%29|Wikipedia
    article]]: \r\n\r\n\"Although the battle took place near Allenstein, Ludendorff's
    aide Max Hoffmann suggested to name it after Tannenberg  in an attempt to erase
    the defeat in the medieval Battle of Grunwald (Tannenberg) of 1410 in which the
    Teutonic forces were defeated by the Poles and Lithuanians.[2][3]  As pointed
    out by Christopher Clark, the actual Tannenberg is some thirty kilometres to the
    west, and there was no intrinsic reason - other than the historical battle and
    its emotive resonance in the narrative of German Nationalism - to name for it
    the 1914 battle.\" \r\n\r\nThis information confirms that Jan is quite correct
    that the name \"Tannenberg\" is a \"strong reference to German nationalism\"\u2014and
    a militaristic nationalism at that. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/europe/de-kaiserliche-militarism.htm|This
    article]] explains the connection of the 1410 Battle of Tannenberg (Grunwald)
    to Prussian \"chauvinistic militarism.\" \r\n\r\nGeorg, I keep getting the impression
    that the Prussian chauvinist militarism of the past is something you really admire. "
  created: '2010-04-05 15:59:42'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "<dl><dt>For what it's worth, here's Judith Schalansky's take:</dt>\r\n<dd><em>An
    abudance of new Blackletter types were created around 1900 with the intention
    of adapting the historic forms to the new era and its new demands. Some of the
    most beautiful Blackletter types appeared, incorporating artistic trends of the
    first half of the twentieth century. [...] Here we also find some of the doubtful,
    so-called \u203AJackboot Grotesques,\u2039 such as Tannenberg. These simple Gothics,
    like many contemporaneous faces, reflect the affinities among abstraction, avant-garde,
    and totalitarianism.</em></dd></dl>\r\n\r\nThere you have it. Her use of scare
    quotes is justified by the academic context.\r\n\r\nAmong the samples of \"Modern\"
    Blackletter that Schalansky has compiled, I do note a similarity in the one design
    of Erich Meyer already noted, with other equally geometric faces appearing in
    the early 1930s by Robert Golpon, Max Bittrof and others.\r\n\r\nI see no problem
    in holding up some of these as great designs.\r\n\r\nThe type on the film poster
    is graceless."
  created: '2010-04-05 16:09:33'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "The name is fu***** equal! As a man of the letters \u2013 how can you be
    so superficial, William? It is a typeface. It is well or worse made, but it cannot
    be evil. That is impossible! You nevertheless may be right with regard to Georg\u2019s
    chauvinism, because as far as I remember he is proud of the military foretime
    of the guys in his family. Weren\u2019t they officers, Georg? Please correct me,
    if I am wrong. I don\u2019t want to spread rumors. I cannot understand, how anybody
    can be proud of a kinsman, that was voluntary in a war (even not if they were
    on the opposite side, because you are not your kinsmen \u2013 you can be proud
    of yourself only and even there I have doubts, because I believe in the omnipotence
    of the laws of nature, independent from the question, whether humans know all
    the laws of nature). In the moment, in which you are a soldier in a war, it is
    not your fight anymore. You have to shoot, when you get a command. And that is
    fu***** stupid. This means, I am not a pacifist, but I never would fight for my
    country, just because it is my country."
  created: '2010-04-05 16:25:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When you are really in a war, you fight for survival of yourself and your
    immediate comrades. Nationalism is something others may choose to consider before
    or afterwards. Those in a war are too busy trying to live another day to think
    of pride.
  created: '2010-04-05 17:09:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arno, you are using \"equal\" as an equivalent to the German \"egal\" and
    it's not. Your sentence doesn't work in English, though I get what you mean because
    of my alas poor German. \r\n\r\nI didn't say that Tannenberg is an inherently
    evil typeface, and I don't believe it is. I said that the style is, like it or
    not, associated with militarism and Nazism. Lots of other people corroborate this
    fact, as others have mentioned and quoted above. \r\n\r\nTannenberg is a deliberately
    aggressive style, with its heaviness and sharp angularity. Can you use it successfully
    in another context, without the baggage of history? I don't know--and I don't
    know why anyone would bother to try when you have tens of thousands of other choices,
    including many beautiful black letter styles.  "
  created: '2010-04-05 17:27:03'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Arno, you are using \"equal\" as an equivalent to the German \"egal\"
    and it's not.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks. Corrections of my English are always welcome.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t like the italic style of Tannenberg. But maybe you, Georg, can provide
    an example, in which Tannenberg was used out off Nazi context. I mean a well made
    example, in which Tannenberg is used not in a context, that could rub off on the
    typeface.\r\n\r\n@ William and anyone who is interested\r\n\r\nHere is a kind
    of video about US-American engagement in Iraq, that you don\u2019t see in the
    news on TV, because Vietnam also was a war of information, that the USA lost.
    So the US-American wars after Vietnam were censored. This is fascism. It is terror.
    And it is craven. A game. An unfair fight. It is not better than flying with aeroplanes
    into buildings. Terror from a nation, that should know it better. Civilization
    does mean technological progress in the USA, but not much more. The contradictions,
    in which US-Americans live, are a disease.\r\n\r\nHere the video: http://www.collateralmurder.com/"
  created: '2010-04-06 09:01:40'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "\u2026 but what can you aspect, when those people \u201Cvote\u201D?: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pargon/sets/72157623594187379/show/\r\n\r\nAnd
    Tannenberg looks better \u2026\r\n\r\nMy  favorite is THANKYOUFOXNEWSFORKEEPINGUSINFROMED."
  created: '2010-04-06 10:10:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">that you don\u2019t see in the news on TV\r\n\r\nI saw this on the news
    on TV in the U.S. yesterday."
  created: '2010-04-06 14:09:02'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\nSorry for being late with my answer. I've a lot to do in
    my magazine.\r\n\r\n\"This information confirms that Jan is quite correct that
    the name \"Tannenberg\" is a \"strong reference to German nationalism\"\u2014and
    a militaristic nationalism at that.\r\n\r\nThis article explains the connection
    of the 1410 Battle of Tannenberg (Grunwald) to Prussian \"chauvinistic militarism.\"\r\n\r\nGeorg,
    I keep getting the impression that the Prussian chauvinist militarism of the past
    is something you really admire.\"\r\n\r\nWilliam, militaristic imperialismus (what
    else can it be than militaristic - with exception of the peacekeepin missions
    of the US?) was a general attitude of the nations. See \"the Empire\" (sic) of
    Britain. On the 12th of April 1977 they invaded the free Republic of Transvaal
    in the south of Africa. And what about your US wars?\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_wars_involving_the_United_States\r\n\r\nThe
    Deutsches Reich, what we call Germany, was founded in 1871. Before, it was Prussia.
    Both were as chauvinistic and imperialistic as every european country, plus US,
    plus Russia.\r\n\r\nTo call the Battle of Tannenberg, which in real happened at
    another place nearby, is, what you americans call marketing. It was a better historic
    background to compare it with another battle nearby some hundreds of years ago,
    which was lost. Clever guys. Not only in US, but, as you see, although in Germany.
    Worse thins with bigger lies happened in this epoche. In Prussia, in England and
    France and in the US, too.\r\n\r\n\"Georg, I keep getting the impression that
    the Prussian chauvinist militarism of the past is something you really admire.\"\r\n\r\nThis,
    William, is a very intersting sentence. I understand exactly what you say. And
    I understand, what you mean. You are showing me the instruments of torture, like
    the churches did in the very past, before they burned the bitches. You mean \"Are
    you sure to continue admireing the militaristic chauvinism of Prussia? It's very
    close to a border. It's similiar with... you know, what I mean.\"\r\n\r\nWilliam:
    Yes, I am feeling a deep admiration for the history of my country, for Germany,
    for Prussia. This is one of the reasons, I call my company \"Prussian lead letter
    magazine\". I know that the history of german lead letters are not a prussian
    one, but it says something about its owner, me. Back to your \"question\": so
    what? Before you think about my political conviction, just think a little bit
    about your own one. But don't tell me. It's your private thing. As it is mine.
    More questions?\r\n\r\nI want to stop here - if there are no more questions to
    me about whatever.\r\n\r\nI think, I brought enough good arguments to show, that
    calling Tannenberg a so called schaftstiefel-grotesk = nazi font is a political
    statement, but no professional critic of from prepress specialist. But everybody
    should feel free to decice, if he wants to mix politics and his view of it and
    facts.\r\n\r\nThank you for being so patient with me. My english is not good enough
    to find the correct words sometimes.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 11:27:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Georg, my problem is with an all-or-nothing attitude towards one's country
    or towards its history. \r\n\r\nContrary to what you and Arno wrongly assume,
    I reject and am angrily critical of many US actions, including the Iraq war.\r\n\r\nBlack
    and white are fine for type, but thinking in black and white, in polar opposites
    only is simplistic thinking that is extremely dangerous. \r\n\r\nThere is much
    to study and admire in Prussian history. For example, Bismark started the welfare
    state, or \"government safety net,\" which we only completed--imperfectly--a few
    weeks ago in the US. Here Prussia was ahead of us in America by over a century,
    if you ask me. \r\n\r\nHowever, Prussian militarism and the German nationalism
    of the 19th century is part of the ancestry of Nazism, and it is important in
    my opinion to recognize that, and to critically assess it, and condemn the bad
    aspects of it. It is only one of many conflicting strands in German history, many
    very admirable. But illustration of the strength of militarism in Germany is that
    Einstein was so revolted by it that he renounced his German citizenship--before
    WWI--and took Swiss citizenship. And by the way, the Swiss have never been imperialists
    to my knowledge, so not every country had an imperialist phase. In any case \"everybody
    does it\" is no excuse for wrong actions.  \r\n\r\nThe question of honoring soldiers
    who fought bravely in a bad cause has come up again this month in the state where
    I live, in Virginia, where the Governor declared as [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/06/AR2010040604416.html|Confederate
    History Month]]. Gov. McDonnell left out any mention of slavery. Further, he at
    first said that slavery wasn't that important, and that honoring the fight of
    Confederates for \"freedom\" was the main thing. He was forced to back down and
    apologize by huge numbers of people who expressed outrage against this. \r\n\r\nI
    have no problem with Southerners in the US honoring their ancestors who fought
    with great bravery for the Confederacy. But I do have a big problem with saying
    their fight was in a good cause.  \r\n\r\nPersonally I find Gov. McDonnell's actions
    and words disgusting and inexcusable. I would feel the same way about any history
    of the US that left out its monstrous injustice to the American Indians. \r\n\r\nSo
    I have no problem with your admiring much in Prussian history. But I do have a
    big problem with *uncritical* admiration, because it means admiring what is bad,
    sometimes even evil in the past of one's nation or group. And uncritical all-or-nothing
    defense allows those evils to be revived and perpetuated in the name of patriotism.
    \r\n\r\nTo me self-criticism of one's nation is a profound ethical obligation.
    \ "
  created: '2010-04-11 16:44:29'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes we are fighting enemies who use terror tactics
    in Afghanistan. Have you forgotten about the attacks on New York and Washington
    by Al Qaeda? They not only attacked us violently but continue to declare that
    they will do everything to attack us further. We are not in Afghanistan for capricious
    reasons or for oil\u2014if they even have any.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut have you ever
    asked, who has profit the most of the attacks against the WTC and the Pentagon?
    Cui bono? I assume, that you know about the very deep entanglements of common
    interests between the Saudi Arabic rulers and some US-American interest groups,
    namely the oil industry, which is connected with the Bush family. (The Bush family
    also has best connections to the armament industry and both share personal interests.)
    You hopefully know, that USA and Saudi Arabian had contracted after the Iraqi
    attack against Kuwait, that the USA leave Saudi Arabian after the war. But the
    USA are still there. Their presence is a permanent provocation. You hopefully
    know, who has paid the first war against the Iraq? Yes, Saudi Arabian. Do you
    know about the financial situation of Saudi Arabian? It is bad. Who has profit?
    The USA disrespect the Arabian culture with their pure presence in Saudi Arabian.
    You should not wonder, that this behavior creates the enemies of the USA. From
    their point of view they defend themselves against US-American imperialism. What
    you say about the way, in which the USA engage, is also true for the Islamic terrorists.
    Both parties are idiots, the Christian and the Islamic extremists! The point is,
    that the USA should know it better, because one could assume, that the technological
    progress proceeds parallel to the progress of enlightenment. If the USA will not
    take care, they will choke themselves in an unbelievable big tangle of inner contradictions.\r\n\r\nComing
    back to Afghanistan, I would say, that the USA only try to distract themselves
    from the psychic disease, which they suffer. And without the attack against the
    WTC Bush had lost the votes! Who has profit?"
  created: '2010-04-12 08:37:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arno, you seem interested only constructing a narrative that feeds your hatred
    of the US, no matter what the facts and reality. \r\n\r\nAs I mentioned above,
    the video that you said is unavailable in the US I saw, both on CNN and MSNBC,
    if I remember rightly. [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/meast/04/06/iraq.journalists.killed/index.html?iref=allsearch|You
    can see it now on \r\nCNN on line if you want]]. It was also discussed extensively
    in the US press. The fact that your assumptions about the US are completely wrong
    in this case doesn't seem to you worth commenting on. \r\n\r\n\r\nAlso the US
    troops are not in Saudi Arabia. They left in 2003, as you can see [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_withdrawal_from_Saudi_Arabia|from
    this historical article.]] Again distorting reality because it doesn't fit your
    narrative. \r\n\r\nNo doubt, you will post another hate filled note, but I won't
    respond further, as I don't see any point."
  created: '2010-04-12 16:02:06'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\nWith regard to the military presence of the USA in Saudi
    Arabia you are right. But the USA were present there at the point of time, when
    the USA were attacked by the terrorists.\r\n\r\nAnd with regard to the video of
    Wikileaks the point is, that Wikileaks has done the job of TV and news papers
    one more time. The video was not sent to one of the US TV-stations or news papers,
    but to Wikileaks. The classic media are under the pressure of politics. Not in
    the USA only."
  created: '2010-04-12 17:42:38'
date: '2010-03-29 22:16:39'
title: (x) Blackletter "Dead Snow" Font Help please / Schaftstiefelgrotesk - custom,
  similar to  Tannenberg {Rainer}

---
