---
author:
  name: Richard Fink
  picture: 117375
body: "I've noticed that some fonts contain the following [[space|spacing]] characters
  (presented with various encodings for them) and some don't:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacingglyphs_5535.png]\r\n\r\n1)
  I am wondering why some fonts have them and some fonts don't.\r\n2) I'd like to
  know what the deciding factors might be for either including them or not including
  them.\r\n3) Is there a script for Fontlab or another tool that will add these automatically?"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Fixed spaces are handy if you're doing a lot of complex tabular work; otherwise,
    most folks can live without such a dizzying array of options.
  created: '2010-03-31 21:36:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "These were never in any of the standard character sets, and only became interesting
    when the Web \"embraced\" Unicode. We added them to the core fonts for that reason...\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/arialspace_3859.PNG]"
  created: '2010-03-31 22:08:43'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rich \u2014 Since these spaces are relative to font size and easily calculable,
    most professional layout and typesetting applications provide for [many of] these
    spaces without the need for their presence within a font. (The possible exceptions
    are <em>figurespace</em> and <em>punctuationspace</em>, but even these are often
    fudged by the software.)\r\n\r\nThis has historically been the case, that the
    typesetting mechanism provides for these, not the specific font, such that I don\u2019t
    think that most font makers give it any consideration.\r\n\r\nSo, as Si implies,
    until Unicode encoded these, it was a non-issue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 00:29:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Ok, so now that we know why they\u2019re rarities, does anyone actually use
    them? And has anyone ever wanted to use them but been unable to because they\u2019re
    not usually in a font?"
  created: '2010-04-01 01:35:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''ve seen them in real-world HTML markup - we had bugs related to "square
    boxes" logged against various fonts. '
  created: '2010-04-01 01:39:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 01:56:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ditto what Si and Kent said.\r\n\r\nThe principal benefit I can think of
    to handling set-width spaces at the glyph level in fonts, rather than in distance
    offsets in layout software, is that these glyphs are then available for inclusion
    in OpenType Layout lookups. I can think of situations in which it might be appropriate,
    for example, for a contextual substitution that takes places across a standard
    word space to also be triggered across other kinds of spaces."
  created: '2010-04-01 02:00:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I suppose if you take the view that the comp is just lucky to have your type
    at all, you can ask this question. If, on the other hand, you take the comp's
    point of view -- that the type designer's job is to furnish tools -- you should
    include them.\r\n\r\nPut rather pointedly, I'll allow.\r\n\r\nFor many years I
    was use to a typesetting program (TeX) where the comp could specify any needed
    space on the fly. InDesign doesn't provide for this; I find I miss it. I do use
    the figure space and punctuation space routinely when setting tables. Yes, I know
    you can use ID's decimal alignment, but fairly often you get a longish column
    where only one or two numbers need \"padding\" with white space, and it is just
    easier to add them & center the whole thing with the column head.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    there is a bug, apparently in InDesign CS4, Windows only, where if nine of these
    spaces (uni 2000-200B) occur on a line, and if \"show hidden characters\" is switched
    on, the program crashes. Miguel has tested this, and assures us it will not occur
    in the CS5. Got to be one of the worlds oddest bugs. "
  created: '2010-04-01 02:47:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "sii -- <cite>I've seen them in real-world HTML markup</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly
    recently I read in a blog that these spaces should be used for fine-tuning spacing.
    I find it odd that different-width spaces have been encoded as characters, and
    even worse that people would solve design issues with help these pseudo characters
    ...\r\n\r\nIn future I will use REAL CAPS TEXT on the web.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 03:09:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>I find it odd that different-width spaces have been encoded
    as characters.</em.\r\n\r\nIf one can make a strong enough case that there are
    circumstances in which an entity needs to be distinguished in plain text, such
    that the distinction will not be lost in text interchange, then it will probably
    end up encoded as a character. But those circumstances may be quite precise and
    limited, sometimes to specialist usage, and the use of that character for some
    other more general purpose -- e.g. using particular width space characters as
    design elements -- is often inadvisable."
  created: '2010-04-01 04:47:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The logic for encoding them as characters is clear. Type designers have to
    then either assume that reasonable applications will support them (the Adobe position),
    or decide that a really sophisticated font should include glyphs for these characters,
    to enable their use in less savvy applications.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I have long
    been of the latter POV, but I don't think the people who want to omit them are
    crazy, either. So I didn't argue the point too strenuously when over-ruled on
    this question at Adobe.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-01 06:49:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > For many years I was use to a typesetting program (TeX) where the
    comp could specify any needed space on the fly. InDesign doesn't provide for this;
    I find I miss it.</cite>\r\n\r\nCharles \u2014 I\u2019m not sure I know what you
    mean when you say \u201Con the fly\u201D and \u201CInDesign doesn\u2019t provide
    for this.\u201D\r\n\r\nLooks like all of the spaces listed above for the u2000\u2013200B
    block are here (except zero-width space):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/InDD-spaces_5437.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\nYou
    can customize the app to apply keyboard shortcuts to any of these.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it looks like you can specify them in InDD-tagged text using the form &lt;0x200#&gt;\r\n\r\nBTW,
    can anyone tell us what the difference is supposed to be between enquad/emquad
    and enspace/emspace? I haven\u2019t been able to find an explanation yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 12:55:37'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Also: I\u2019m not necessarily arguing that fonts *shouldn\u2019t* include
    these encoded glyphs. \r\n\r\nIn my first reply, I was trying to explain why most
    font makers have not generally done so. I don\u2019t think it has been a matter
    of incompetence, insolence, or arrogance.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 13:08:11'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> Charles \u2014 I\u2019m not sure I know what you mean when you say \u201Con
    the fly\u201D and \u201CInDesign doesn\u2019t provide for this.\u201D\r\n\r\nTeX
    has/had the ability to define any size of space, so if you need a 3/5 em space,
    you can create one. Perhaps this is what Charles meant."
  created: '2010-04-01 14:38:14'
- author:
    name: Mathieu Christe
    picture: 110654
  body: "I was a Quark XPress user and I miss the possibility to set a percentage
    of the em, available as a custom space. In French we place thin spaces (espaces
    fines) between some punctuation signs and words.\r\nIn InDesign, you can only
    use predefined spaces. Unfortunately with some fonts, you won't find the right
    space, it'll be either too much or not enough. Reason why I'd like to be able
    to set a value, which could be available as \"Custom Space\" in the \"Insert White
    Space\" menu.\r\nAnyone knows why this option doesn't exist in InDesign, or shall
    I study the manual closely, if it is?"
  created: '2010-04-01 15:15:07'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Mathieu, you can change the horizontal scale of anything in ID -- either
    manually (it's in the Character panel) or with a character style. So 81.67% of
    an em space can be defined -- just make sure you only apply it to em spaces and
    not to your text.\r\n\r\n(I admit, at that point it's not really \"a predefined
    space\" anymore, and if you export to an XML format the formatting will be lost.)"
  created: '2010-04-01 15:37:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If you think about metal type, incremental spaces were not part of the font.
    The type setter would add variation spaces as needed. I don't think the onus should
    be on the typeface designer to supply such things.
  created: '2010-04-01 16:04:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@Don: <cite> TeX has/had the ability to define any size of space, so if you
    need a 3/5 em space, you can create one. Perhaps this is what Charles meant.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Don. I\u2019ll bet you\u2019re right. That sounds useful, and exactly like the
    kind of thing Charles would love.\r\n\r\nOf course, this is a completely separate
    issue from the presence of myriad encoded spaces within a font."
  created: '2010-04-01 16:11:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Sii wrote:\r\n>I've seen them in real-world HTML markup - we had bugs related
    to \"square boxes\"\r\n>logged against various fonts.\r\n\r\nYeah, this is what
    prompted the question. \"On the fly\" seems to be an issue.\r\nI'll be back with
    details...\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-01 16:18:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kent: <em>BTW, can anyone tell us what the difference is supposed to be between
    enquad/emquad and enspace/emspace? I haven\u2019t been able to find an explanation
    yet.</em>\r\n\r\nI think the difference is that a font is allowed to \u2018lie\u2019
    about one set, but not about the other. For example, in a very narrow compressed
    or very wide expanded font, the nominally en/em characters might actually be proportionally
    narrower or wider than actual width relative to body height.\r\n\r\nI <em>think</em>
    the en/em quad characters are the ones that should be fixed relative to the body
    height, but am not 100% sure about that."
  created: '2010-04-01 18:19:47'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: Well, what can I say? I use them and have advocated for them.
  created: '2010-04-01 18:29:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[Going back to John's post:] Unicode is not very specific here ...\r\n\r\nProblem
    is that encoding these spaces creates expectation that they should be present
    in fonts. (Complaint: Missing!) And type designers who add them likely interpret
    the use and thus width of these spaces differently, so that hair space might be
    visibly different in different fonts.* (Complaint: Not the width I expected!)
    They more \"encouragement\" for end users to modify fonts.**\r\n\r\nWorse, they
    obscure the idea of what encoding characters means. The Unicode 5 book, p.205,
    suggests that\r\n<cite>U+2009 THIN SPACE and U+200A HAIR SPACE are successively
    smaller-width spaces used for narrow word gaps and for justification of type\r\n\r\nwhere,
    in my understanding, \"narrow word gaps\" refer to the text level while \"justification
    of type\" (things like adjusting uppercase spacing?) is not a matter of text encoding
    but of design. Inviting to produce ambiguous data: when is thin/hair space a real
    space, when does it serve as design hack?\r\n\r\n* Unicode 5, p.205, says:\r\n<cite>where
    they</cite> [u-2000..U+200A except sometimes U+2009] <cite>are used (for example,
    in typesetting mathematical formulae), their width is generally font-specific</cite>\r\n\r\n**
    See initial post:\r\n<cite>3) Is there a script for Fontlab or another tool that
    will add these automatically?</cite>"
  created: '2010-04-01 18:38:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Well said, Karsten!
  created: '2010-04-01 18:42:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>Problem is that encoding these spaces creates expectation that
    they should be present in fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nI've never accepted the argument
    that just because something is in Unicode it should be in any font, let alone
    all fonts. Glyph sets are determined by font makers. Unless you are claiming support
    for a character set that includes characters that you don't in fact support, those
    characters can't be considered missing.\r\n\r\nI do put these space characters
    into my fonts, but that's because I know they are useful for scholars dealing
    with manuscript transcription in which capturing different widths of spaces in
    plain text can be important, and my clients tend to request them.\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    these are the space widths I use in fonts (most are obvious):\r\n\r\nU+2000 |enquad|
    1/2em\r\nU+2001 |emquad| 1em\r\nU+2002 |enspace| 1/2em\r\nU+2003 |emspace| 1em\r\nU+2004
    |thirdemspace| 1/3em\r\nU+2005 |quarteremspace| 1/4em\r\nU+2006 |sixthemspace|
    1/6em\r\nU+2007 |figurespace| tabular numeral width\r\nU+2008 |punctuationspace/
    comma width\r\nU+2009 |thinspace| 1/5em *or* 2/3wordspace (whichever is narrower)\r\nU+200A
    |hairspace| 1/18em\r\nU+202F |NBSPnarrow| 1/5em (or 1/3em for Mongolian fonts)\r\nU+205F
    |mathspacemedium| 1/4em"
  created: '2010-04-01 19:59:48'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "FWIW, it looks like InDesign\u2019s default values for some of those spaces
    which are subject to interpretation, when not encoded in the font, are as follows:\r\n\r\n<strong>hair
    space</strong> = 0.042 em (don\u2019t ask me why; that\u2019s what I measured)\r\n<strong>thin
    space</strong> = 0.125 em (1/8 em)\r\n<strong>punctuation space</strong> = width
    of a period\r\n<strong>figure space</strong> = width of zero (does not change
    with OT figure features, so unless figs are tabular by default or an encoded figurespace
    is included, this will not be a tabular space)\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-01 20:59:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Kent, this is why I fill in those Unicode characters. The *figure space*
    gets the width of a tabular figure, the *punctuation space* the width of a tabular
    comma, which I sometimes make up & switch with the regular comma -- Minion needs
    one, for example. When I need one of these spaces, I enter the Unicode from the
    keyboard rather than counting on InDesign to figure it out.\r\n\r\nNot that it
    matters, but I use a 155 unit space for a thin, and a 55 unit space for the hair
    space -- same as John with the hair, & real close with the thin. \r\n\r\nThere
    is some precedent for varying hair space values; what a comp setting metal actually
    used for a hair space was \"whatever suited.\" The thin space is a different matter;
    in Linotype is was the spaceband, unexpanded (you could switch in different spacebands).
    For systems using the em, I'd imagine it varied as well.\r\n\r\nBTW, not all fonts
    have the same width for lining tabular figures as for oldstyle tabular figures.
    Well, it's not ideal, but you can live with that. What you can't live with are
    those fonts where the setwidth for roman tabular figures is different than for
    italic tabular figures. Ah, font designers. Why end users have to modify fonts."
  created: '2010-04-01 22:12:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's a good job we have you to set us right, Charles!\r\n\r\nHowever, I should
    point out that some of your ideas about what is correct are matters of taste (for
    instance, your preference for the slash to extend to descender depth), and/or
    geared to your own field of work, whereas comps in other parts of the graphics
    industry might have different standards and expectations.\r\n\r\nFWIW, I have
    included the extra space characters in my mega-fonts (and Goodchild Pro, which
    will see the light of day eventually), but otherwise don't consider them necessary."
  created: '2010-04-02 05:52:34'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I'm disappointed not to see a unicode value for a copper and a brass. Certainly
    just as important as a thin and hair space when composing hand set foundry type.
  created: '2010-04-02 12:00:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Well, copper = U2640. Brass would be a ligature of U2640 and possibly U2643.
    Or I suppose in a universe without bromine you could use a Br ligature.\r\n\r\nThese,
    of course, can be further ligated with any other unicode character if you need
    to specify the composition of your foundry type.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-02 12:45:06'
- author:
    name: Mathieu Christe
    picture: 110654
  body: "@Theunis: Thank you for your answer but it doesn't appear to be the solution
    has you concluded.\r\nI'm curious to hear from Thomas Phinney about this typographic
    setting \u201Cmissing\u201D from InDesign, thanks."
  created: '2010-04-02 14:32:08'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "It's present in InDesign CS3. I'd be surprised therefore if it's absent from
    CS4 or CS5.\r\n\r\nIn CS3 it's under type->insert white space.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-02 14:51:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">my clients tend to request them.\r\n\r\nFor custom type, if you charge your
    clients by the glyph, recommending the inclusion of these would seem sensible.
    :-) "
  created: '2010-04-02 15:48:17'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Sorry -- I missed your earlier post. It's not clear, though, why what you
    are suggesting couldn't be accomplished with manual kerning rather than custom
    spaces.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-02 16:23:08'
- author:
    name: Mathieu Christe
    picture: 110654
  body: "@Andr\xE9, I know it's possible to insert a white space in InDesign (CS3,
    CX4). \r\n\r\nWhat I'd like to have is a \"Custom space\", which for the width
    can be define in a percentage of the em in the Preferences. For more details about
    my question, please read my first post, thanks."
  created: '2010-04-02 16:26:32'
- author:
    name: Mathieu Christe
    picture: 110654
  body: You search/replace, then you have control on the amount of space everywhere
    you've placed this "Custom space" by simply changing the perrcentage of the em
    space. Theunis de Jong  suggested horizontally scaling a white space, which can
    be done with a style sheet and basically equals the Quark XPress function. This
    solution has limitations, see his post.
  created: '2010-04-02 16:34:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: But it doesn't have to be a apace from the same font. You can create a set
    of spaces that you can use for all.
  created: '2010-04-02 17:04:12'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Richard\r\n\r\nI just thought, that it would be handy to have an embedded
    font in the css stack, that contains only different spacing characters. Up till
    now I used the span-tag in cases, in which the spacing was very bad, but this
    soils the markup more than having a font just for such extra spaces."
  created: '2010-04-02 17:12:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A space font.\r\nVery conceptual Chris.\r\nYou shoulda published it yesterday!"
  created: '2010-04-02 17:16:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Shoulda? You didn't see his great [[http://www.blank.org/|online specimen]]?
  created: '2010-04-02 17:23:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\nOh. Was this already proposed? I would have been the second
    one, if I would not have wasted time with translating. And I swear, I did not
    read the thread thoroughly."
  created: '2010-04-02 17:24:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "But I have another idea:\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know, if the problem is already
    solved in Firefox, but if you change the leading with the help of CSS with a relative
    value, it can happen, that one line is one pixel higher than the following one.
    I found this very bothering, because one pixel more or less is visible. So it
    would be possible to provide a font in the first place of the stack with a higher
    space for long lines for the case that Mozilla will not fix this bug (caused by
    too strictly following the specification). In the Internet Explorer the leading
    is even."
  created: '2010-04-02 17:54:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You shoulda published it yesterday!\r\n\r\ntoo late...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.p22.com/lanston/products/spacing_sorts.html\r\n\r\nAm
    I really the only person who remembers this trivia? :-) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-02 17:55:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh, god, I am so unworthy of you guys :-)\r\n\r\nIsn't it still April 1st
    some where on the planet?"
  created: '2010-04-02 18:50:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I might have known Kegler would have already excogitated that idea!\r\n\r\n<em>Am
    I really the only person who remembers this trivia? :-)</em>\r\n\r\nUntil you
    have won the TypeCon quiz, not by a long shot :-)\r\nRight Kent?"
  created: '2010-04-02 19:01:53'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<quote>.. [Em space with a horizontal scaling applied --] just make sure
    you only apply it to em spaces and not to your text.</quote>\r\n\r\nI should've
    thought of it earlier -- since InDesign CS4 you can use a GREP style to apply
    the horizontal scale to em-spaces <em>only</em>. A GREP style only can apply character
    styles, which is sometimes annoying (just a little!), but in this case it's an
    advantage because you can change the scale in that style, and it'll be changed
    all over your document.\r\n\r\nSounds interesting? Create a new GREP style. In
    the Apply Style list, choose \"New Character Style\". Select this and name it
    \"em width\".\r\nIn the To Text box put \"~m\" (<em>sans</em> quotes, of course).
    Insert a number of ems into your document -- you don't have to apply the style
    manually --, then change the horizontal scale in the \"em width\" character style
    to 50% and 200% to see what happens."
  created: '2010-04-02 20:43:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Until you have won the TypeCon quiz, not by a long shot :-)\r\n> Right
    Kent?\r\n\r\nI better start studying those Dwiggins books then :-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-02 21:26:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Si, study alot about LA as well :-)
  created: '2010-04-02 21:32:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Got it, studying taco truck menus and Oscar ceremony typography - I should
    be good if Hrant and Mark Simonson don't team up.
  created: '2010-04-02 21:39:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Don't worry, Si, I hear Hrant is teaming up with John Downer ;-)
  created: '2010-04-02 22:50:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Just don't team up with me, Si. I have as much chance of winning the TypeCon
    Quiz as I do of winning the New York Marathon. There, instead of a stop-watch,
    you would need a perpetual calendar to see me cross the finish line.
  created: '2010-04-02 22:54:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Until you have won the TypeCon quiz\r\n\r\nTo cop William Buckley's famous
    line from 1965's New York Mayoralty campaign - if I were to win, the first thing
    I would do is demand a recount.\r\n\r\nSpacing glyphs, spacing glyphs...\r\n\r\n1)
    As a Beta tester, I <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/ie8-bug-html-spacer-entities-create-one-pixel-jog-in-line-height/\">reported
    a bug</a> in IE8 on Windows XP (only XP) that caused a 1 pixel \"jog\" in line
    height when the author used one of the <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/sgml/entities.html\">HTML
    character entities</a> like &amp;thinsp; or &amp;emsp;\r\nHowever, if the font
    contained the character corresponding to those entities, the bug went away. It
    was a problem related to whatever way IE8 was synthesizing the character - at
    least on XP.\r\nBut it was filed too late in the game and perhaps not deemed critical
    enough and IE8 shipped with it.\r\nThis was one clue that including spacing characters
    in the font was, perhaps, a good idea. After all, why rely on UA synthesis if
    you don't have to?\r\n\r\n2) Joe Clark stopped by Readable Web to make a snide
    <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/ie8-bug-html-spacer-entities-create-one-pixel-jog-in-line-height/#comment-14\">comment</a>
    about my using HTML Character Entities for spacing.\r\nWhich read:\r\n<em>You
    mean you\u2019re using \u201Cspacer entities\u201D (fun neologism, BTW) just like
    spacer GIFs? Because they\u2019re easier than CSS?\r\nYou\u2019re so 2009 you\u2019re
    1997!</em>\r\nI replied with an apt example and, credit to Joe for re-thinking
    when re-thinking is due, he seems to have come around to the wisdom of using spacing
    characters in certain situations:\r\n<a href=\"http://blog.fawny.org/2009/10/24/thinspace/\">Talking
    With The Taxman About Thin Spaces</a>\r\nThese entities are part of the specs
    - both HTML and Unicode - and they do effortlessly what, in some situations, could
    take many lines of fitful CSS and added HTML span elements. (And, without going
    into a lot of detail and explaining why it's important, I can tell you firsthand
    that if you want to get decent H&J text out of a browser, these glyphs are indispensable.)\r\n\r\nNow,
    if the glyph is not in the font, there's a disconnect with the CSS spec. If you
    read the spec carefully, you see that the \"proper\" behavior for a browser -
    if it cannot find the corresponding glyph in any of the fonts in the font stack
    - is to display the rectangular \"character not found\" box. This is what Opera
    does. IE and some other browsers, more practically, will attempt to synthesize
    the space. But Opera's unsightly behavior is actually correct.\r\n\r\nAnd, as
    you can see from Kent's analysis of InDesign's behavior, even a high-end app can
    be weird about the math, let alone a browser you get for free.\r\n\r\nIn line
    with Phinney: why not add certainty when it \"costs\" nothing?\r\nIncluding these
    glyphs should be de rigeur.\r\n\r\nWhere they don't exist, I add them.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-03 15:22:13'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I was always in favour of using space <em>characters</em> once they failed
    to produce ugly rectangles in standards-noncompliant browsers. (The spec is wrong,
    incidentally, and is being ignored for good reason.) There was no Damascene conversion.\r\n\r\nOur
    dear friend Richard does still need to learn what an HTML entity is."
  created: '2010-04-03 18:32:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>However, if the font contained the character corresponding to those
    entities, the bug went away. It was a problem related to whatever way IE8 was
    synthesizing the character - at least on XP.</em>\r\n\r\nMy guess is that IE was
    using font swapping (if I recall correctly, a function of RichEdit) as do a lot
    of other MS apps. So instead of displaying a .notdef glyph for the unsupported
    character, a different font is used to display the character (typically an MS
    core font). The reason for the linegap jump is that the substituted font has larger
    vertical metrics than the other font."
  created: '2010-04-04 05:17:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > And, as you can see from Kent's analysis of InDesign's behavior,
    even a high-end app can be weird about the math </cite>\r\n\r\nWith regard to
    the thin and hair spaces, at least, this isn\u2019t really a fair accusation.
    There is no standard width for these. So, I\u2019m not sure that you\u2019re going
    to be a whole lot more satisfied having the type designer define these willy-nilly
    either. (We all know how capricious they can be ;-) \r\n\r\nUnlike the objective,
    relative, nominal spaces (3-to-em, 4-to-em, et al.), there is no objective definition
    for a thin space. I believe the Unicode spec says \u201Ca fifth of an em (or sometimes
    a sixth)\u201D \u2014 well, which is it? And some comps might say, Neither. (I
    happen to like 8-to-em thin spaces.) If the intention was to encode a 5-to-em
    space, then it should have been called as such.\r\n\r\nBack in the day, there
    may have been a generally shared understanding within certain typesetting shops
    of what one meant by a thin space, but the truth of the matter is that this will
    have varied between shops and typesetters.\r\n\r\nIn fact, the term <em>thin space</em>
    was also used generically, as in \u201Cone of the thin spaces,\u201D referring
    to several different spaces up to about a fifth of an em \u2014 spaces such as
    a copper or a brass (which James facetiously referred to above) or even a hair
    space. \r\n\r\nAnd a <em>hair space</em> usually just meant \u201Csome small amount
    of space to make it look good.\u201D Often a comp might just use a scrap of card
    stock or a piece or two of cigarette paper.\r\n\r\nSo, I wonder at the wisdom
    of encoding these subjective spaces. Might just as well encode a <em>tad</em>
    \u2014 \u201CHey, would you space that out a tad, please?\u201D \u201CI think
    that could use a tad less space.\u201D\r\n\r\nAt least a copper and a brass had
    definite measurements. But these were absolute spaces, not relative. A <em>copper</em>
    referred to a half-point space, and a <em>brass</em> referred to a one-point space.
    (These were provided in the different metals to make them easily distinguishable
    at a glance.)\r\n\r\nThe reason James\u2019s reference above is amusing is that
    you can\u2019t realistically provide for these in a digital font. A \u201Cbrass\u201D
    in a 12-point font would have a value of 83 em units; but set in an 8-point font,
    it should be 125 em units; etc. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-04-04 19:51:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "\u201CHey, would you space that out a tad, please?\u201D\r\n\r\nColin Brignall's
    preferred unit of measurement when suggesting minute changes to designs was  a
    gnat's bollock."
  created: '2010-04-04 22:33:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The reason James\u2019s reference above is amusing is that you can\u2019t
    realistically provide for these in a digital font.</cite>\r\n\r\nCouldn\u2019t
    we just use OpenType to sub them in appropriately sized coppers and brasses if
    software just supported that feature?"
  created: '2010-04-04 23:38:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@joeclark\r\n\r\nI was wondering when you were going to catch up with me.
    ;)\r\n\r\n@kent and all who are capricious:\r\n\r\nThanks for all the valuable
    info.\r\nSo, what's the answer? Yay or nay to including these spaces?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-06 17:05:14'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Oh, you and Joe have made compelling arguments for including them in any
    font destined for web use, certainly.\r\n\r\nBeyond that, I don\u2019t see the
    harm (or that much extra work) to including them, but I also wouldn\u2019t be
    inclined to fault the designer who doesn\u2019t. I guess it depend on the nature
    of the font.\r\n\r\nIt does seem to me that as type designers and font producers
    attempt to become more and more comprehensive, I would expect more future fonts
    to include them. \r\n\r\nWill they become \u201Cstandard\u201D? \u2014 Time will
    tell."
  created: '2010-04-06 23:04:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "In full scale font production, it's the kind of thing one would expect to
    throw in near the end, by running a script. As the glyph has no outlines, it would
    not add noticeably to the file size, so not much to object to on that score (\"font
    bloat\").\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-09 04:59:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kent\r\n\r\n<em>Oh, you and Joe have made compelling arguments for including
    them in any font destined for web use, certainly.</em>\r\n\r\nMe, Joe and, apparently,
    Microsoft.\r\nAs sii posted:\r\n<em>we had bugs related to \"square boxes\" logged
    against various fonts</em>\r\n\r\nSo my question now is: if one of these characters
    have been added to a font, does an app like InDesign use them? Or does it continue
    to just do the math and synthesize?\r\n(BTW - in my previous life I spent quite
    a bit of time with tool-and-die guys. Apropos of \"hair space\" - do typographers
    ever use the term politely abbreviated as CH? And if so, is there any distinction
    made between a red CH and a blonde CH? [Lascivious giggling allowed.]\r\nDidn't
    hear \"tad\" used at all in any shop - too imprecise.)\r\nInterestingly, steel
    rule cutting dies use the point system for the width of the steel - like type.
    Never found out the history of it, though.\r\n\r\n@thomas phinney\r\n<em>it's
    the kind of thing one would expect to throw in near the end</em>\r\nAbsolutely.
    And as you say - there's no glyph data - it adds next to nothing to the file size.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-12 15:51:19'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Rich -- me no native speaker, but I got <em>that</em>! Wotcher, buddy, there
    are ladies around!\r\n\r\n<cite>So my question now is: if one of these characters
    have been added to a font, does an app like InDesign use them? Or does it continue
    to just do the math and synthesize?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere was a thread on this a
    while ago where it was mentioned someone had made a special \"non-breaking space\"
    glyph. In one of the older CSes, the glyph was invisible and ID substituted its
    own: a regular space with software-supported non breaking properties. After a
    wee bit o' complainin', the next major release featured the logical way: use the
    font's own glyph (whether or not it has \"ink\" on it) if it's there -- and presumably
    its width as well --, synthesize if it's not in there.\r\n\r\nIf you have a recent
    InDesign and a program to quickly draw some glyphs, you could try if that holds
    for all spacing glyphs. (And it'd better! Would Adobe fall for the same trick
    twice?)\r\n\r\nThree glyphs that are not mentioned so far are a bit of a mystery
    to me: The En and Em Quads (U+2000, U+2001), and the NEL (Next Line) character
    U+0085. Are these deprecated? [*]\r\n\r\nA mean thing to stress-test InDesign
    with would be to proffer it a font with glyphs for the Zero Width Space (U+200B),
    Zero Width Non-Joiner (U+200C) and Zero Width Joiner (U+200D) -- all of course
    <em>with</em> a width. &#91;Imagine Devilish Grin Here&#93;\r\n\r\n[*] Okay, I
    see <em>you</em> listed the quads. :-P"
  created: '2010-04-12 20:17:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Rich \u2014 \r\n\r\nIf any of the subjective spaces I mentioned (hairspace,
    thinspace, punctuationspace, figurespace) is present and properly encoded in the
    font, it appears that InDesign will respect and use them. I don\u2019t know about
    the nominal spaces. I\u2019d have to rig a font with incorrect widths and see
    whether they showed up right or wrong. I\u2019d expect that InDesign will respect
    any encoded space, that the calculated spaces are just fall-backs, but I haven\u2019t
    tried.\r\n\r\nOh, but when I entered the nominal spaces in an earlier test and
    exported the result, they were encoded, so that\u2019s further indication that
    Indd will probably respect the font.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-13 00:32:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">there are ladies around!\r\n\r\nThe funny thing is, the person who used
    the phrase the most was a young woman whose expertise was in making patterns for
    the die-cutters used in various trades like the cutting of leather for shoes and
    handbags. Working in a very, very male dominated, blue collar environment, she
    just went with the flow.\r\nA cunning linguist, I guess you could say. ;)"
  created: '2010-04-14 20:02:28'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Sloppy work for a tool & die shop. I can usually set up a lathe to .0002 TIR
    (inches). There are no hairs that small. (& I wouldn't claim toolroom expertise,
    either.)
  created: '2010-04-14 20:56:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@charles_e\r\n\r\n<em>Sloppy work for a tool & die shop.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree,
    but a CH more or less is, as they say, \"Good enough for government work.\" (Another
    great expression I remember from those days.)\r\n\r\nBut enough of the frat-house
    stuff...\r\n\r\n@theonis\r\n\r\n<em>A mean thing to stress-test InDesign with
    would be to proffer it a font with glyphs for the Zero Width Space (U+200B), Zero
    Width Non-Joiner (U+200C) and Zero Width Joiner (U+200D) -- all of course with
    a width.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm still a little fuzzy about what these zero width chars
    are meant to accomplish, exactly. I do know that 8203 will signal to the browser
    where, in an unbroken string, the string is to be wrapped to a new line. Handy
    for URLs and the like. It can prevent unsightly overflow or large gaps at the
    ends of lines.\r\nPlus, it seems to be well-supported by browsers, generally.
    Although I haven't done extensive tests of all the major browsers.\r\n\r\n@kent\r\n\r\nThanks
    for checking it out. What you found was what I expected - first, it looks for
    a corresponding glyph and if not found, it synthesizes one based on, I assume,
    the UPM.\r\nOf course, with browsers, we have the fallback font to contend with.\r\nBased
    on what Sii is saying, it looks like, as of Win 7, in Windows the browser will
    always find a corresponding glyph because it will keeping looking down the font
    stack until it hits the final built in fallbacks: serif or sans-serif or monospace.\r\n\r\nHey,
    want to see something? Remember my thread about duplicate font names?\r\nTake
    a funky looking font, rename it \"inherit\" and install it.\r\nIt won't happen
    on every site, but sooner or later you'll see that font pop up unexpectedly because
    nearly all browsers still don't make the distinction between:\r\nfont-family:
    'inherit';\r\nand\r\nfont-family:inherit;\r\n(Inherit is CSS for \"apply the same
    font-family to this HTML element as is being applied to its parent element\".)\r\nThey
    are supposed to make this distinction, of course. If quoted it's a legit font
    name, unquoted it's the CSS value.\r\nOops.\r\nI'm afraid to see what happens
    if I name a font <em>serif</em> or <em>sans-serif</em>!\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-15 15:42:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > it synthesizes one based on, I assume, the UPM.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    for InDesign anyway, it\u2019s not necessary to reference the UPM. Remember, the
    em is relative to point size, which is being declared at the layout level, not
    the font level.\r\n\r\nSo, only in the case of punctuationspace and figurespace
    does it need to give any deeper consideration to the specifics of the font. To
    synthesize, it would need to read out the specific width value of the period (for
    punctuationspace) or zero (for figurespace), and then factor in UPM. Something
    like that."
  created: '2010-04-15 23:05:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kent\r\n\r\n<em>Remember, the em is relative to point size, which is being
    declared at the layout level, not the font level.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah. What I meant
    was - say a four-per-em space - would have a width in the font that's 25% of the
    UPM. If 1000, then 250, if 2048, then 512. And, of course, that's going to scale
    up and down (or more like out and in) depending upon the point size.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    no sooner do we speak, but look at my previous comment with the italic <em>f</em>
    bumping into the exclamation point at the sentence ending with <em>serif</em>!\r\n(Should
    I have italicized the exclamation point also? What would you do?)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    that's what Joe C's been carping about. If the needed space doesn't exist in the
    font, then the browser should try to synthesize. But stupidly, the CSS spec actually
    reads that if it can't be found in any font in the stack, the notdef black box
    is what gets displayed.\r\nActually, I really should take a look and see what
    the status is on that in the current flurry of revisions at the W3C. Maybe make
    the suggestion. In the case of spacing characters, notdef just doesn't make any
    sense.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-04-16 15:34:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "We\u2019re basically on the same page, so it may just be semantics; but my
    understanding is that, for any given character, the app has to calculate width
    \xF7 UPM * point-size to figure out how big to render. I believe points are the
    base units for the type handling at the app level, not UPM em units. \r\n\r\nSo
    my point is, if the space is not encoded in the font and it has to synthesize,
    why would it go all the way back to reading the UPM to then determine how many
    em units will yield one-quarter, and then turn around and divide by the UPM to
    return 0.25 in order to multiply by the point size to then render the four-to-em
    space. See what I mean? \r\n\r\nAnyway, no matter . . . \r\n\r\n<cite> > If the
    needed space doesn't exist in the font, then the browser should try to synthesize.
    [.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.] In the case of spacing characters, notdef just doesn't make
    any sense.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly. I agree. That\u2019s the way it should be. \r\n\r\nAnd
    so, back to where we started, re: your initial question \u2014 Since the onus
    in the past has been generally on the typesetting system or software, most font
    makers have probably just figured that\u2019s what was already happening and haven\u2019t
    been in the habit of encoding those spaces.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-16 18:28:33'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I have been thinking about this. Perhaps one tracking of the history could
    go like this:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li><kbd>Option-space</kbd> becomes near-universal
    Macintosh keystroke for nonbreaking space \u2013 an actual character, not a movement
    of a writing pen with visible effect</li>\r\n<li>Unicode attempts to encode existing
    computer character sets, several of which included space characters</li>\r\n<li>\r\nUnicode
    contributors with typographic knowledge (viz Everson) generalize from nonbreaking-space
    case and include all known space characters of yore</li>\r\n<li>\r\nApplications
    are built with Unicode support, giving them access to Unicode space characters
    but creating ambiguous cases for DTP software that had its own interpretation
    of such characters\r\n</li></ol>\r\n\r\nIn this timeline, the deciding factor
    was the creation of an easy keystroke for a visible space character other than
    the one that expands, contracts, and sometimes disappears, i.e., normal wordspace."
  created: '2010-04-23 20:10:34'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: The zero-width-joiner and -non-joiner characters are adequately explicated
    in <cite>Unicode Explained</cite> by Jukka Korpela (<a href="http://blog.fawny.org/2006/09/21/unicode-explained/"
    title="My review">review</a>; <a href="http://books.google.ca/books?id=lxndiWaFMvMC&printsec=frontcover&dq=korpela+unicode+explained&source=bl&ots=Nays1GW7IB&sig=3ml945bT2oncSmmEc7uJUhAVMbU&hl=en&ei=1vDRS9bcNoOC8gau5NDMDw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CAUQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=%22zero-width%20non-joiner%22&f=false"
    title="Google Books search">at Google Books</a>).
  created: '2010-04-23 20:13:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@joeclark\r\n\r\nThanks for the historical perspective. And the link to <em>Unicode
    Explained</em>.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-25 16:44:45'
date: '2010-03-31 21:00:31'
node_type: forum
title: General Puncuation - Spacing Glyphs - Why do some fonts but not others have
  them?

---
