---
author:
  name: Ken W
  picture: 115766
body: "A friend of mine gave me set of typefaces. When I try to download it, every
  single typeface is called \"regular\", even though in finder they are all titled
  differently. Is there anyway I can change the name of these typefaces?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_3531.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Your friend violated the terms of his licensing agreement, and you are a font
    thief. Don't expect any help here.
  created: '2010-04-06 23:47:27'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: You've got the [[http://helveticons.ch/|Helveticons.]] Nice. (Hope you paid
    for them.)
  created: '2010-04-06 23:55:33'
- author:
    name: Ken W
    picture: 115766
  body: "My friend purchased them. we're both working on a project for school and
    he just let me borrow the typefaces to me. I have no intensions of using the gotham
    typefaces for anything but the project. Im no art thief; I just cant afford the
    typeface so my friend offered to let me borrow the typeface. I wouldn't make that
    kind of statement oldnick, you have no idea what your talking about.\r\n\r\nand
    yes, I do have the helveticons, I got it as a gift from my father. Im exited to
    use them!"
  created: '2010-04-06 23:59:38'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "Thumbs up for your dad. I've had my eye on them for some time, but haven't
    had a project that justified the expense yet.\r\n\r\nIn defense of Nick, your
    (ambiguous) wording is at fault. I'm not an expert, but I don't think the EULA
    would allow for borrowing."
  created: '2010-04-07 00:03:40'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: To actually contribute something that's helpful to this thread, here's [[http://typography.com/home/eula.php|H&FJ's
    EULA.]]
  created: '2010-04-07 00:06:40'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "And that EULA's first clause begins:\r\n\r\n\"1. Grant of License. H&FJ hereby
    grants you a limited, non-exclusive, <em>non-transferable<em> license\"...\r\n\r\n(Emphasis
    added)\r\n\r\nWelcome to the world of EULA's. To stay on the straight and narrow
    one really must read them."
  created: '2010-04-07 00:47:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Obviously, if you own a license, you should contact the technical support
    of the font foundry that made the font: \r\nhttp://www.typography.com/ask/faq.php#Ft_9\r\nsection
    \"45. Technical support\". They will be happy to answer your questions. \r\n\r\nIf
    you don't own a license, you're getting involved in illegal activities, and I'm
    afraid you won't find much help here. "
  created: '2010-04-07 23:21:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Ken:\r\n\r\nYou wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>My friend purchased them. we're both
    working on a project for school and he just let me borrow the typefaces to me.
    I have no intensions of using the gotham typefaces for anything but the project.
    Im no art thief; I just cant afford the typeface so my friend offered to let me
    borrow the typeface. I wouldn't make that kind of statement oldnick, you have
    no idea what your talking about.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, it's clear that you're
    the one who has no idea what you're talking about. I'll blame your school for
    not teaching you this stuff, I guess. It's great that your friend LICENSED the
    fonts (he did not purchase them). You are indeed breaking the law in \"borrowing\"
    the font software, just as you would be if your friend gave you the install disks
    for some other piece of software with a non-transferable, single-user license.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're so sure what you're doing is legal, go right ahead and call Hoefler & Frere-Jones
    for tech support. Be sure to explain your situation and see what they say.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-07 23:59:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>you have no idea what your talking about.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, that
    would be \"you have no idea what <strong>you're</strong> talking about\"..."
  created: '2010-04-08 01:45:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>My friend purchased them. we're both working on a project for school
    and he just let me borrow the typefaces to me. I have no intensions of using the
    gotham typefaces for anything but the project.</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm. Your bio says
    your profession is \"art director.\"\r\n\r\nStill, if you are a student, one lesson
    that must be learned is to work with materials available, even if \"availability\"
    is a matter of money. I assure you this won't be the only time this comes up."
  created: '2010-04-08 13:25:22'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-08 14:52:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The nonchalance of piracy never ceases to amaze.
  created: '2010-04-08 15:07:49'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "The craziness the software industry always amazes me! So lending your friend
    some thing you bought with your own many is a theft, how sweet! That why I'll
    never ever give my money to such insane people with flawed logic. An industry
    where you call your own baying customer thieves and pirates is an industry that
    lost its compass.\r\n\r\nI'd rather build my own fonts, or keep using ugly fonts
    than giving may money to such zealots who rip me off thousands of dollars then
    claim ownership of my own property!"
  created: '2010-04-08 15:54:24'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Khaled Hosny: I think the point is that you own a license to use the font.
    The ownership of said font still rests with the creator and/or foundry. So, the
    font isn't actually your property to loan, share, trade, etc. Personally, I find
    some of the EULA's so restrictive ([[http://www.houseind.com/fonts/licensing/eula|House
    Indstries]] as an example) that I won't buy their fonts reguardless of the quality.
    \r\n\r\nKen W: You might consider contacting the foundry in question. Some folks
    have discounts for students - albeit sometimes limited to non-commercial applications.
    Then they might be able to solve your technical problem.\r\n\r\n\r\n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\r\n\r\n[[http://thefontry.com/|<em>from
    the Fontry...</em>]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 16:33:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Khaled,\r\n\r\nAs a user of type, I'm not entirely unsympathetic your position.
    The problem has more to do with what all this new technology has brought. \r\n\r\nSuppose,
    for example, you had bought Linotype mats for a linecaster. You'd need 8 point,
    9-point, and at least one of 10, 11, or 12-point. Plus some display sizes. Roman
    and italic (though most were duplexed). That's for \"one font,\" say Janson. The
    purchase price was about $2,000 in the early 1960s -- about the price of a new
    car.\r\n\r\nOK, you own them. But you own a shop with more than one casting machine.
    If you want run the magazines on more than one machine at a time, you'd have to
    buy another set of mats -- another new car.\r\n\r\nToday, fonts are software,
    not physical objects. So, what is sold is a license, not a physical object. Copying
    is easy; policing copying is difficult. And the price doesn't let the font designer
    buy a car with each purchase -- a good lunch is more like it.\r\n\r\nThe model
    of \"owning fonts\" is difficult with software, esp. to a collection of people
    use to viewing something as a physical object. But as has so often been pointed
    out to me, I'm old. For the younger crowd, the notion of type as a physical object
    is passing strange. It will take a while for all this to settle down.\r\n\r\nToday,
    I'm going to skip purchasing a font, so off to lunch.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 16:33:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>So lending your friend some thing you bought with your own many is
    a theft, how sweet!</cite>\r\n\r\nI seriously doubt, that the friend licensed
    the fonts in the first place. If they came from the original source, they wouln't
    have the problems described in the first post. These are typical problems of fonts
    that are extracted from PDFs or other documents. \r\nAlso: If you copy digital
    goods, you don't LEND them. Lending means you give away something, you don't have
    then anymore. If you want to do that with fonts, no problem! You can transfer
    a license from one user to another. Just ask the font foundry. "
  created: '2010-04-08 16:57:23'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@phrostbyte64 \r\nI find the ownership vs. licensing a complete non-sense
    spread by software industry that I don't agree with. I bought something and I
    possess it, then it is my property and I'm free to do whatever with it. If eulas
    say otherwise, then I'm not paying for it."
  created: '2010-04-08 17:05:54'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@charles_e\r\nBut producing physical copies did cost money and time for every
    single copy, which is not the case for digital type. You do the work once and
    want to keep profiting from it for a whole life! I work as a physician and I've
    to work 6-12 hours a day to earn money, I don't write a prescription once and
    give soft copies of it to my other patients and expect to keep making money out
    of it, why type people think they are different?"
  created: '2010-04-08 17:13:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If a type designer works 800 hours to produce a typeface, how many copies
    does he have to sell at $30 each to equal what a doctor would earn doing 800 hours
    of work?
  created: '2010-04-08 17:25:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I find the ownership vs. licensing a complete non-sense spread by software
    industry that I don't agree with. I bought something and I possess it, then it
    is my property and I'm free to do whatever with it. If eulas say otherwise, then
    I'm not paying for it.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you steal a music CD from a store and are
    caught, you will be arrested. It is unlikely that you will be caught stealing
    software, but a crime occurs nonetheless. In the first instance, you did not steal
    the physical object--the disk--for the object itself, but for its content. The
    fact that, in the instance of software theft, there may be no physical product
    stolen does not mean that the two kinds of theft are intrinsically different.
    In either case, you intentionally deprive the creator of the work of any compensation
    for his or her efforts, which is theft, plain and simple.\r\n\r\nAs to your second
    point: if you buy a gun and possess, are you free to do whatever you want with
    it?"
  created: '2010-04-08 17:29:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Great, when this argument comes up everyone always states that the immateriality
    of the font is something that disadvantages the author \u2013 let's not forget
    that the long-tail distribution of the data usually costs zero or is at least
    substantially less than the manufacture (once designed) and distribution of material
    type, and this is therefore in the favor of the author.\r\n\r\nI think it's a
    fair point that is usually neglected. Just sayin'."
  created: '2010-04-08 17:53:35'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: PS before I get hammered I agree for the most part with protecting the font
    designer. I just tire of the comparisons to other products that don't wash. </rant>
  created: '2010-04-08 18:02:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I think it's a fair point that is usually neglected. Just sayin'.</em>\r\n\r\nSo,
    what's your solution to \"balance\" the transaction so as not to \"favor the author\"?"
  created: '2010-04-08 18:02:35'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: And again, a typeface is clearly not interchangeable with a gun. Clearly Khaled
    can't go around doing what he wants with it, so that's moot. If you want to make
    a sensible comparison between a gun and a typeface you might note that the gun
    owner expects to be allowed to take the gun apart, look inside it or customize
    it for the job in hand, which most type EULAs prohibit. I think that is more akin
    to what Khaled is implying, so address his point sensibly.
  created: '2010-04-08 18:06:45'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Not at the expense of the customer.
  created: '2010-04-08 18:07:20'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: By this I mean charging a huge sum for a product that the author can reproduce
    endlessly. It does happen.
  created: '2010-04-08 18:08:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>By this I mean charging a huge sum for a product that the author can
    reproduce endlessly. It does happen.</em>\r\n\r\nFont purchases are not compulsory:
    if the customer doesn't like the price, he or she can simply not purchase the
    font..."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:15:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: You could say the same about any product, but usually manufacturers are held
    to account about how much profit they make. For example in the UK phone companies
    are currently being held to account over the price of a text.
  created: '2010-04-08 18:18:59'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Perhaps I am starting to make poor comparisons myself.\r\n\r\n(At least the
    comparison was with another immaterial product.)"
  created: '2010-04-08 18:26:58'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>For example in the UK phone companies are currently being held to account
    over the price of a text.\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nText messages aren't compulsory, either.
    In fact, until relatively recently, they were non-existent. Consumers have choices
    about HOW they spend their money..."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:28:31'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Font purchases are not compulsory: if the customer doesn't like the price,
    he or she can simply not purchase the font...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat if huge vendors
    like MyFonts, FontShop etc. decide to charge whatever they like for fonts? I don't
    think you would advocate not buying in this instance."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:28:52'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>What if huge vendors like MyFonts, FontShop etc. decide to charge whatever
    they like for fonts? I don't think you would advocate not buying in this instance.<.em>\r\n\r\nIndividual
    foundries, not MyFonts, set the licensing fee for their products. I can't speak
    for anyone else but, over the past year, I <strong>decreased</strong> my licensing
    fees, and my net revenue has increased. Find a new dead horse to flog..."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:37:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "You could happily argue that the majority of products are not necessary.
    But that is ridiculous, and many, many products beyond food and water <em>are</em>
    are necessary in society. Good luck on being socially included (in geographic
    terms) if you can't afford the phone.\r\n\r\nTypical capitalism."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:37:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Typical capitalism.</em>\r\n\r\nWhose fruits you enjoy. No, it's not
    perfect: far from it but, by its graces, you have a range of choices available
    to you utterly undreamed of a hundred years ago. Please do continue to bite the
    hand that feeds you..."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:41:44'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Nick, my point is that major <em>vendors</em> such as MyFonts could place
    a reckless surcharge on the transaction. This is not some ad hominem attack against
    your foundry!
  created: '2010-04-08 18:43:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: With all respect, Nick, you don't know anything about what I do and don't
    enjoy. I enjoy this though, a good discussion! I think I have made my points fairly
    and clearly. Shame I ruined it with jibe about capitalism. Shake? As I said before,
    I side with the designer, but would like to see things discussed in full complexity.
  created: '2010-04-08 18:48:18'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Nick, my point is that major vendors such as MyFonts could place a reckless
    surcharge on the transaction. This is not some ad hominem attack against your
    foundry!</em>\r\n\r\nI don't take your comments as a personal affront, so an apology
    is unnecessary. Yes, font retailers could place reckless surcharges on the products
    they peddle, just as people can choose to commit suicide. In either case, the
    results would be the same. If vendors maintain pricing levels which their customers
    find acceptable, they will continue to have paying customers. If vendors charge
    outrageous fees, they will discourage buyers and encourage pirates and thieves.
    It's that simple..."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:49:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm sure most of the type designers won't like my solution, but it is simple.
    Don't buy all those fonts, but do buy what you need. In my area of type use (bookwork)
    you can easily get your work done with 4-5 families for the various texts, and
    perhaps the same again for display. Wanting more fonts is a matter of graphic
    designer boredom, not necessity. We all wind up paying for this boredom -- in
    more ways than just money.\r\n\r\nIf you have to have it, pay for it. If you don't
    want to pay for it, don't whine. Khaled has found his way, more power to him."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:50:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What if huge vendors like MyFonts, FontShop etc. decide to charge whatever
    they like for fonts? </em>\r\n\r\nFoundries stipulate an MSRP (Manufacturer Suggested
    Retail Price) in their contracts with distributors.\r\nSo that isn't going to
    happen."
  created: '2010-04-08 18:59:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Khaled has found his way, more power to him.</em>\r\n\r\n...which is
    to compare apples and oranges. Type foundries provide a product, doctors provide
    a service. Why not call for an end to automobile manufacturing, and bring back
    rickshaw drivers? Chances are, there would be around 40,000 fewer deaths each
    year in the U.S."
  created: '2010-04-08 19:00:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Khaled, I'm sure you have a more nuanced approach to the issue of generic
    vs. brand-name drugs.\r\nOr do you believe that generic drug manufacturers should
    be able to start copying brand-name drugs immediately, regardless of patent protection?
    After, all, if they bought a sample of the brand name drug and figured out how
    to mimic it, why should they wait 20 years to put their clone on the market?"
  created: '2010-04-08 19:06:54'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@Nick Shinn\r\n<cite>\r\nOr do you believe that generic drug manufacturers
    should be able to start copying brand-name drugs immediately, regardless of patent
    protection? After, all, if they bought a sample of the brand name drug and figured
    out how to mimic it, why should they wait 20 years to put their clone on the market?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I do support ending drug patents too, because history tells us that drug manufacturers
    Mafia are happy with thousands (if not millions) of people dying as they can't
    offered their overpriced drugs. Patents are state granted monopolies and initially
    aimed for the good of people, if it is rather causing harm then it should die."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:05:37'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>I'm sure most of the type designers won't like my solution, but it is
    simple. Don't buy all those fonts, but do buy what you need.</em>\r\n\r\nCharles
    that would be a fine solution if we Typophiles didn't moan so much about ubiquity\u2026\r\n\r\nNick
    Shinn, I think the drug comparison is, again, way off the mark. My interpretation
    of what Khaled is saying is that he does 6 or 12 hours work and that is what he
    gets paid for, every time he works 6 or 12 hours. The fact he is a physician is
    not the point. He is talking about the value of labour - that he makes the prescription
    each time not once thereafter duplicating it.\r\n\r\nAlso Nick, I don't think
    it is useful to bring <em>profiteering from the availability of medicine</em>
    into the commercial type equation. It has far greater ethical ramifications than
    any debate about the luxury business of contemporary type design (oldnick already
    confessed it is not a compulsory purchase). In short the importance of available
    medicine trumps contemporary type design. \r\n\r\nIf you think that this <em>is</em>
    a safe comparison, then this industry clearly has no sense of itself, or it's
    place in the world, and as Khaled said earlier, has lost it's compass.\r\n\r\nShoot
    me."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:19:42'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@oldnick\r\n<cite>\r\nIf you steal a music CD from a store and are caught,
    you will be arrested. It is unlikely that you will be caught stealing software,
    but a crime occurs nonetheless. In the first instance, you did not steal the physical
    object--the disk--for the object itself, but for its content. The fact that, in
    the instance of software theft, there may be no physical product stolen does not
    mean that the two kinds of theft are intrinsically different. In either case,
    you intentionally deprive the creator of the work of any compensation for his
    or her efforts, which is theft, plain and simple.\r\n\r\nAs to your second point:
    if you buy a gun and possess, are you free to do whatever you want with it?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I don't support violating license agreements (even if I find a certain license
    immoral), I rather avoid it completely. Second, stealing a physical object is
    not like copying a piece of software; when I steal an object I deprive it of you,
    a real loss. But when I copy a piece of software I deprive you nothing as you
    still have it, there is no real loss. There is however an expected loss, based
    on an unproven hypothesis that the \"pirate\" would have purchased a copy if he
    didn't get it for free, which I have never seen and evidence that support it (to
    the contrary, several studies fond that people who download music from file sharing
    services are the one who purchase music most!).\r\n\r\nAs for second point, I
    think it was clear that I was talking about ownership rights."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:20:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Yes, I do support ending drug patents too, because history tells us that
    drug manufacturers Mafia are happy with thousands (if not millions) of people
    dying as they can't offered their overpriced drugs. Patents are state granted
    monopolies and initially aimed for the good of people, if it is rather causing
    harm then it should die.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd as a somebody with a serious illness
    I agree with that."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:22:10'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: I think this thread officially needs to be renamed.
  created: '2010-04-08 20:24:42'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Issue with</em> is a good start\u2026 "
  created: '2010-04-08 20:30:51'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>First, I don't support violating license agreements (even if I find a
    certain license immoral), I rather avoid it completely. Second, stealing a physical
    object is not like copying a piece of software; when I steal an object I deprive
    it of you, a real loss. But when I copy a piece of software I deprive you nothing
    as you still have it, there is no real loss.</em>\r\n\r\nThere is a very real
    loss in both instances: that is, compensation for the labor required to produce
    the product, intangible or not. Or do you see patients for free because, in the
    end, they receive NO THING and you still retain your medical knowledge?"
  created: '2010-04-08 20:33:58'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Eh, this is madness. You are just ignoring the existence of long tail distribution
    model. THAT is your compensation.
  created: '2010-04-08 20:38:18'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Or do you see patients for free because, in the end, they receive NO
    THING and you still retain your medical knowledge?</em>\r\n\r\nAlso, some doctors
    <em>do</em> see patients in free clinics, on top of their paid hours, especially
    in America. Doctors are often obliged to act outside of paid hours when the need
    arises, for example responding to an accident outside of work, without compensation."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:48:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>long tail distribution model</em>\r\n\r\nAssumes facts not in evidence.\r\n\r\n<em>Doctors
    are often obliged to act outside of paid hours when the need arises, for example
    responding to an accident outside of work, without compensation.</em>\r\n\r\nLargely
    irrelevant. The basic fact remains that doctors perform a service for which they
    expect to be paid; doctors do not work \"on spec.\" Type designers develop products
    in hopes that they will be paid. For the most part, the work they do is entirely
    speculative. There is no hard guarantee that x amount of effort will yield y amount
    of income nor, for that matter, any income at all."
  created: '2010-04-08 20:56:23'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: You even compared something to suicide, which I did not understand at all.
  created: '2010-04-08 21:25:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: (Edit)
  created: '2010-04-08 21:26:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Well, exactly. It's not a very good comparison is it which is my consistent
    point (I didn't originate the idea of comparing it to medicine, Nick did). So
    stop making bizarre comparisons to guns, CDs, pharmaceuticals. Type is type. It
    is consumed very specifically and it's distribution is changing. To preserve the
    profit margins of material type based on material manufacture and distribution
    whilst refusing to acknowledge duplicate sales is not a very strong position and
    it is something that people are skeptical of, hence this discussion.\r\n\r\nAs
    for following up the medical thread, I just wanted to point out that not everything
    is about money, and not everything should be a business, simply to answer Nick."
  created: '2010-04-08 21:27:31'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "oldnick: <em> \u201CThere is no hard guarantee that x amount of effort will
    yield y amount of income nor, for that matter, any income at all.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nAmen.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-08 21:28:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I agree you are right though, that the speculative aspect might cause the
    enterprise to fall through, but then as you said earlier, if you don't like type
    don't buy it, if you don't like type design, don't do it. Surely.
  created: '2010-04-08 21:29:29'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>You even compared something to suicide, which I did not understand at
    all.</em>\r\n\r\nI said...<em>font retailers could place reckless surcharges on
    the products they peddle, just as people can choose to commit suicide. In either
    case, the results would be the same.</em> What's incomprehensible about that?
    Pricing one's products out of the market is commercial hara-kiri. And, please
    be so good as describe what a reasonable profit margin is, taking into account
    the overhead, labor involved, specialized skills, etc., necessary to produce a
    workmanlike commercial font."
  created: '2010-04-08 21:37:36'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Consider the amount of labour needed to extract a font from a PDF and put
    it into a reasonable format, fit for free distribution ... Those pirates are actually
    paragons of goodness!\r\n\r\nPerhaps if <em>every</em> font had an incredibly
    high price tag, its buyers might say \"Hey I'm not gonna share it!\".\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to know from Ken W., Khaled, and Andrew (\"1985\"): given that creating a
    font <em>is</em> a major task -- I suppose we can fairly agree it is -- but 'distributing'
    it is as easy as putting it on the web and into torrents, which is as good as
    gratis, how ought the creator be compensated for his work? Surely you are not
    suggesting they ought to only make free fonts, from the kindness of their hearts?"
  created: '2010-04-08 22:45:28'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Right, now I follow you! In other words tantamount to suicide. Everything
    just seemed very dramatic with guns and drugs and then\u2026 suicide ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    have spent a little while trying to compose a response to your question but I
    honestly don't know. I hope you can forgive me for not having the answer of a
    chancellor.\r\n\r\nI will say though that the value of a tool is often determined
    by how useful it is, not how many hours were spent inventing it, which seems to
    be the common justification of price argument here in the Typophile forum. As
    you said people can take it or leave it. It's probably better for everyone (designers/world
    in general) if they do take it, and that they are encouraged to do so legitimately.
    Customers know that the font license they buy is potentially one of thousands,
    maybe more, they are right to question the value of the product, and also the
    license. Many products are assessed also on availability. Usefulness and availability,
    that is how consumers are used to assessing worth. Probably if you are businesslike
    you have more exacting terms. So the consumer is right to have questions, it is
    only natural, and they deserve to have them answered respectfully, and without
    condescending analogies found here and regularly replayed across Typophile. Either
    way seems to be a pertinent issue."
  created: '2010-04-08 23:04:33'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>I'd like to know from Ken W., Khaled, and Andrew (\"1985\"): given that
    creating a font is a major task -- I suppose we can fairly agree it is -- but
    'distributing' it is as easy as putting it on the web and into torrents, which
    is as good as gratis, how ought the creator be compensated for his work? Surely
    you are not suggesting they ought to only make free fonts, from the kindness of
    their hearts?</em>\r\n\r\nYou and I certainly can agree on the difficulty of the
    task, many jobs are difficult, most are underpaid. Do you want to be compensated
    though or to be paid? Sounds always as though type designers are at always at
    a loss, which is odd given that we have established some low cost aspects of the
    enterprise (it's not all lose lose). The word compensate has come up several times
    through the thread. Compensation implies loss, are you always at the mercy of
    these pirates? If so, it's quite a romantic vision of your own labour. Which business
    does not have some loss?"
  created: '2010-04-08 23:19:31'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "You've all forgotten to talk about music. Services and medicine (or guns
    and suicide) do not really compare to font licensing. Online music does.\r\n\r\n(just
    to keep things lively.)"
  created: '2010-04-08 23:23:12'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Thanks Tomi, music did come up in the form of CDs and online streaming I think.
  created: '2010-04-08 23:25:26'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "But not as stuff people feel it's ok and, if not legal, then at least a slap
    on the wrist, to download for free. \r\n\r\n\"It's just on the internet.\""
  created: '2010-04-08 23:30:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "So, finally, we get back to the heart of the matter. Most EULAs begin \"By
    using or installing this font data, you (or you on behalf of your employer) agree
    to be bound by the terms of this Agreement,\" or words to that effect. My initial
    response to Ken W was that he and his friend violated the terms of the Gotham
    EULA from the get-go. Everything else is persiflage. Khaled seems resentful that
    he has to work for a living and, somehow or another\u2014as he sees it\u2014software
    developers of every stripe don't; this only goes to prove that he is abysmally
    ignorant of the amount of effort that goes into producing these \"intangible\"
    products. If a particular font meets your needs, you get what you pay for, regardless
    of what you pay for it..."
  created: '2010-04-08 23:36:44'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Persiflage, that's one for the scrabble board! It's a good summary of my intent
    probably, the banter I mean.
  created: '2010-04-08 23:42:35'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Very well put, mister Curtis.
  created: '2010-04-08 23:42:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If you think that this is a safe comparison, then this industry clearly
    has no sense of itself, or it's place in the world,</em>\r\n\r\nI think it's a
    fair comparison to make to a physician, who deals professionally with the politics
    of intellectual property with regards to the generic drug issue. \r\n\r\nI don't
    represent this industry. I don't even believe it is a single industry, the business
    interests of participants being so different:\r\n1. Monotype-Linotype, Berthold,
    legacy publishers\r\n2. Apple, Microsoft, Adobe: Billion dollar enterprises that
    bundle fonts\r\n3. Designer-owned foundries\r\n4. FSI: publisher and retailer\r\n5.
    Bitstream: publisher and retailer\r\n\r\n<em>If a particular font meets your needs,
    you get what you pay for, regardless of what you pay for it...</em>\r\n\r\nLong
    tail indeed!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 00:10:11'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "But from an EU (that's End User) point of view it is difficult to see where
    these \"fonts\" come from. To an EU, \"fonts\" just are there, and you buy one
    when you need one. You do not think about \"designer of the font\". You just buy
    it and use it. You see that \"EULA\", but you've already installed the font, so
    some text file just sits there; not your concern. This is from my ad days.\r\n\r\nOn
    another note: is there any comprehensive studies of who buys fonts, quantative
    and qualitive? My quess is advertising agencies, publishers, design firms and
    graphic designers in this order.\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to see how the
    old classics compare with our newcomers.\r\n\r\nThis could be information some
    companies rahter not give out."
  created: '2010-04-09 00:33:41'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I'm curious as to why those font names are screwed up. It reminds me of something
    TransType Pro would do when converting from TTF to OTF with the default settings.
  created: '2010-04-09 03:52:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@1985:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"but usually manufacturers are held to account about
    how much profit they make.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Usually\"? Hardly. Only if they are
    a monopoly, cartel, or price-fixing oligopoly. One or more of which may be the
    case with text messaging on cell phones.\r\n\r\nBesides which, companies are usually
    only harassed about their profits if they are actually making obscene profits
    in toto, not just marginal profits. Despite the cries of outrage expressed here
    over font pricing, prices of fonts have declined in the last 20 years*, and so
    have the number of people employed in said industry.\r\n\r\n* Arguably with OpenType
    prices have gone back up slightly, but not at all in proportion to the increased
    work and value going into the fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-09 04:46:33'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "To be honest, the prices of typefaces aren't actually <em>that</em> high,
    across the board, are they? At least, I don't think so. I could afford to buy
    typefaces when I was a student - and I did - and I wasn't particularly rich. Just
    skip the pub a few times, and you can buy yourself several typefaces. ;)\r\n\r\nAnd
    besides... I don't think the price of a product has much to do with if it gets
    pirated or not."
  created: '2010-04-09 06:39:16'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@Thomas Phinney\r\n<cite>Despite the cries of outrage expressed here over
    font pricing, prices of fonts have declined in the last 20 years*, and so have
    the number of people employed in said industry.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy concern is not
    the prices of the font, but the freedoms its EULAs take from me, the rights of
    ownership that I should have on what I paid for. When I buy a car I get full ownership
    rights on it, I can sell it (most EULAs will say you can't), I can lend it to
    my friends, share it with them, take it apart, when it does not work as I want
    I can take to whatever mechanic I want. Most proprietary software vendors, including
    most type foundries take away my rights, my freedoms and if I want my freedoms
    back they call me a pirate and a thief. Also comparing digital copying to physical
    theft is moot, like comparing manufacturing physical goods to selling digital
    copies.\r\n\r\nBecause we are humans with morals and cultures, when I friend needs
    my help I ought to help him, but software vendors say no, by helping your friend
    you are a pirate, sorry software vendors but I'll follow my morals regardless
    of whatever you say."
  created: '2010-04-09 08:28:31'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@oldnick\r\n<cite>So, finally, we get back to the heart of the matter. Most
    EULAs begin \"By using or installing this font data, you (or you on behalf of
    your employer) agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement,\" or words to
    that effect. My initial response to Ken W was that he and his friend violated
    the terms of the Gotham EULA from the get-go./cite>\r\n\r\nJust because it is
    in the EULA doesn't make it moral or even legal, however I propose that every
    one who don't agree with an EULA to avoid the subjected font completely as a way
    to protest against it.\r\n\r\n<cite>Khaled seems resentful that he has to work
    for a living and, somehow or another\u2014as he sees it\u2014software developers
    of every stripe don't; this only goes to prove that he is abysmally ignorant of
    the amount of effort that goes into producing these \"intangible\" products.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I made the comparison to point that in every other profession (not only medicine,
    but I picked that because it is mine), one have to do a work that adds a new value
    to get paid, but type designers seems to think that it is inherited right to keep
    profiting from work that they did only once years ago and still enforce illogical
    and immoral licensing rights on their customers, which is unique to software world.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I know what does it take to to build type, I'm actually working on a three font
    projects right now, one of which involves modernisation of one of Hermann Zapf
    old typefaces in collaboration with him.\r\n\r\n<cite>If a particular font meets
    your needs, you get what you pay for, regardless of what you pay for it...</cite>\r\nPeople
    have morals, we are not typesetting machines."
  created: '2010-04-09 08:44:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Your rights of ownership end where copyright and contract law begin.\r\n\r\nIf
    you buy a book, you don't have the right to scan it and distribute PDFs of it
    to your friends. Or even to photocopy the entire thing and send hard copies to
    your friends. \r\n\r\nContrariwise, if you want to BUY a font, then you need to
    commission somebody to make one for you, or ask them how much you have to pay
    for a license that allows you to do those things you want.\r\n\r\nNobody is taking
    your freedoms away. You are voluntarily entering into a license contract with
    the software (and font) vendors. If you don't want to enter that kind of license
    contract, choose open source software and fonts! If you can't find open source
    fonts that you like for your purposes, well, perhaps that points to the fact that
    retail font licensing with at least somewhat restrictive license terms has in
    the past been a lot more effective way of getting fonts created. I think open
    source fonts are gaining some ground, but the dominance of retail fonts in high-end
    design isn't ending any time soon.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-09 08:45:10'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "One more time an unbelievable boring discussion. My opinion: If you don\u2019t
    have much money (and students have a tendency not to have much money) <em>and</em>
    if you don\u2019t earn money with the work, for which you have used a font, <em>and</em>
    if you don\u2019t brag about the work of others, you can use commercial fonts
    without doing anything that is immoral. The comparisons to material things are
    absurd. Just accept, what the internet is, because you cannot have freedom on
    the one and full control on the other side.\r\n\r\nThe only thing, that I have
    to criticize with regard to Ken, is, that he is claiming his friend has purchased
    the font. I doubt, that the Hoefler Type Foundry releases fonts in such a condition
    of the internal font names. So, either you don\u2019t know, who your friends are,
    because they are lying, or you are lying or I am totally wrong and have to apologise.
    Well, there is another thing: Are you student (pupil) or art director, Ken?\r\n\r\nHehe,
    and not to forget: I don\u2019t like vain young white and sporty guys with sun
    glasses and Macs. No, that\u2019s a joke. Pure envy. Except from the Mac."
  created: '2010-04-09 09:14:30'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>If you buy a book, you don't have the right to scan it and distribute
    PDFs of it to your friends. Or even to photocopy the entire thing and send hard
    copies to your friends.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, comparison to a material thing does
    not really work as books do not have licenses that prohibit lending them? Which
    is I guess what Khaled initially took umbrage with (not the initial theft but
    the continued theft via lending) Even if he had legitimately purchased a font,
    he could not lend it, anymore than the person who stole it. Shock! I know you
    are all up in arms, how can you lend a digital file? Well of course you are right
    you can't, but that does go against a very natural human tendency. People are
    not used to paying for something they have little ownership of, that's all. Perhaps
    this is the trend of some digital technology, to become more closed. Look at the
    history of Apple computers, I think they originally came with circuit diagrams
    and now you can't even change your own battery in many products. Despite this
    I don't think Apple's position would be take it or leave it, which seems to be
    the common response to any probing here, in fact this is not the position of most
    industries, which eventually have to court the customer. Why not here with fonts?
    Khaled says that he is working on some fairly credible font projects yet he has
    received all the usual patronising reprise about how long fonts take to make etc.
    To me that is a shame.\r\n\r\nBut yes I take your point about monopoly and pricing,
    my mistake getting carried away probably. Though I got distracted by pricing I
    don't think I have said anything outrageous, certainly not a cry of outrage as
    you say.\r\n\r\nHowever I was outraged by Nick Shinn's dubious red herring comparison
    to the availability of medicine, though that was an aside (persiflage) as we all
    know.\r\n\r\n<em>I think it's a fair comparison to make to a physician, who deals
    professionally with the politics of intellectual property with regards to the
    generic drug issue.</em>\r\n\r\nI still don't think this is fair but never mind,
    it's not the debate in hand."
  created: '2010-04-09 10:47:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: To put things back in real font terms, I can foresee many situations whereby
    'lending' a legitimate font purchase would arise. For example, as a passing freelancer
    in a studio that owns a font. The studio may be small, three regular employers
    people, one or two occasional freelancers. Still within 5 machines stipulated
    by the licenses for the original purchase. If the font is deleted upon leaving,
    have all licenses been used up? The freelancer is not part of the business, therefore
    they are not on the agreement document for the font, but to criminalize everyone
    in the situation as pirates and thieves seems draconian. Of course the font probably
    won't be deleted, fair enough for your concern, but according to many here, by
    this point the EULA has already been compromised and everyone is now on CIA hit
    list ;-)
  created: '2010-04-09 11:16:01'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Ray:\r\n\r\n<cite>I'm curious as to why those font names are screwed up.
    It reminds me of something TransType Pro would do when converting from TTF to
    OTF with the default settings.</cite>\r\n\r\nCounting the \"regulars\" and \"italics\",
    it adds up to the standard list of Gothams from H&FJ: Thin, Extra Light, Light,
    Book, Medium, Bold, Black and Ultra. Probably Book or Medium account for \"Bold\"
    and \"Bold Italic\", the rest appear all once as Regular and once as Italic.\r\nThe
    exact style name seems to be omitted -- that's the OP's <em>real</em> problem
    --, and your suggestion of a dumb conversion might be right.\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    \"only\" converting the font from one type to another is <em>also</em> forbidden
    by most EULAs. Some allow it <em>for personal use</em>, and that's clearly not
    the case here :-) (Is one allowed with the Larabie fonts?)"
  created: '2010-04-09 12:35:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "The discussion is still stuck around the difference of licensing vs. buying.
    An EULA doesn't take away any rights. With a user license agreement a vendor and
    a user AGREE on a price under certain conditions (as stated in the EULA). What
    some people here seem to forget: The regular price of fonts is directly based
    on these conditions! If you want to spread the font in your company: fine! We
    will set up a multi-user license. If you want to put the font on a server: fine!
    We set up a server license. If you want a I-can-do-whatever-I-want-license: Okay!
    But then we will probably end up with a price like those 1500 bucks for a photo
    lettering disc of one one font style, that you actually owned in the 1970s. \r\nBut
    if you want my font for 30 bucks, you need to agree to the terms of my standard
    license. If you can't do that, you can't use my fonts. If you break the conditions
    of my EULA you break a legal contract. If you use my font without a license, that's
    illegal. This is the law in almost all countries of the world. Nothing to argue
    with that. \r\nI agree that the word \"stealing\" might not be appropriate in
    this context, but EULAs are still legal contracts and the users are bound to it,
    whether you like it or not. There is no general \"right\" to do whatever you want
    with my creative work. \r\n\r\nConcerning \"loss\":\r\nYes there are font collectors
    out there, which would never buy a font anyway. So there is no real financial
    loss for the software vendor. And there are design studios who purchase a license
    for every font they use. But in reality: Many users fall inbetween. They look
    if they can find a font they want on their hard drive or the internet, and only
    buy it, if they can't find it there. (It's natural\u2014they want to increase
    their profit.) And so, there is a very real financial loss here for the foundries.
    Even if their is nothing \"physically stolen\".  That's why some foundries don't
    even put specimen PDFs of their fonts on the web or limit the character set. Because
    they know, the minute they do it, they will decrease their sales of this font.
    So please don't try to give the impression that illegal font copies do no harm,
    because nothing is \"stolen\".\r\n\r\nConcerning \"poor\" students:\r\nIt's funny
    that every design student I know has a shining new MacBook Pro for 2000 bucks,
    but no 30 for a font license. Oh yes, the fonts are only for \"academic purpose\".
    So illegal copies are okay then. They are not. Design students should respect
    the value of creative work as soon as possible in their career. What if one student
    copies the design of another student? The latter would be furious. What if the
    first student said it was only for \"academic purpose\"? Would it help? Probably
    not. So this argument is nonsense. \r\nBut I would say that vendors can still
    do more for academic users. There are foundries with academic discounts, but this
    is often well hidden somewhere on the website. We clearly offer student discounts
    of around 30% and a lot of students buy them. It's a full license that is still
    valid even if you are no student anymore. So you really get a benefit here. And
    the fonts do work, not like those ripped Gotham-Fonts of Ken W.  \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 12:59:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: t's just reminiscent of the way the families show up in Font Book after converting
    from Win TTF to OTF with TransType Pro. They tend to show up fine in Adobe apps
    but in Font Book they're displayed pretty much like this, at least when I use
    it on my own large font families.
  created: '2010-04-09 13:00:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Hi Khaled \r\n\r\n<em>And I know what does it take to to build type, I'm
    actually working on a three font projects right now, one of which involves modernisation
    of one of Hermann Zapf old typefaces in collaboration with him.</em>\r\n\r\nWould
    you be willing to share your plans for pricing/sales/licensing/distribution on
    those projects?"
  created: '2010-04-09 13:01:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Ralf can you answer my above point, not because I think you or anyone else
    can't but I'd genuinely like to know, thanks. What happens in the situation I
    described, where the license is for 5 machines?
  created: '2010-04-09 13:26:19'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "@1985  Freelancers are not covered by a standard license agreement \u2013\_the
    license is limited to the machines of one company. Freelancers act on their own
    account and need a separate license. They might charge the company for the expenses. "
  created: '2010-04-09 13:45:51'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Regarding price of laptop and being a student, I bought my own as you said,
    and I bought CS2, I also bought FontLab, full price I think (is their an academic
    discount?), whilst still a student. Now the price of CS4 academic is half what
    CS2 academic was and FontLab costs a little more than the entire CS4 sweet at
    student rate\u2026 so I <em>am</em> confused by the value of software.\r\n\r\nStudents
    seem to get very easily stereotyped on this website. Also, many of the fonts I
    used as a student were from the college system library of fonts, many fonts all
    bought at once that had a fold out page with all 1000 samples on. I don't know
    what the license was like with that but it seemed to be full of ropey clones(?),
    Zurich, Swiss (has particularly poor quality of outlines), etc. which some consider
    legitimate data, not exactly a bold example to students."
  created: '2010-04-09 13:59:41'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: '... How big a discount does a student jewel smith get on his gold & diamonds?'
  created: '2010-04-09 14:05:25'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>I don't know what the license was like with that but it seemed to be
    full of ropey clones(?), Zurich, Swiss (has particularly poor quality of outlines),
    etc. which some consider legitimate data, not exactly a bold example to students.</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably
    a Bitstream collection and those dopey names are absolutely legal on account of
    the US copyright laws, which cover trademarks/names/brands, but not the appearance
    of typefaces\u2026 BT-fonts used to be of very high quality. Don't know if that
    is still the case, because I haven't bought one in ages. (I am all for small foundries!)"
  created: '2010-04-09 14:09:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>@1985 Freelancers are not covered by a standard license agreement \u2013
    the license is limited to the machines of one company. Freelancers act on their
    own account and need a separate license. They might charge the company for the
    expenses.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Ralf, can't ever imagine it happening that way though\u2026
    I understand all points made in this thread but EULAs don't seem to correspond
    to the nature of the coal face. It seems strange making end user agreements whilst
    ignoring what many end users want and in fact do. Perhaps EULAs could be more
    sensitive to this particular situation (I guess wording would have to remain as
    is, perhaps just see in different light), as not to criminalize those who had
    paid, essentially to reward them with better rights than those who don't pay at
    all? I think that is the point that ignited the thread. I guess people will just
    say, if you want more rights, pay more for them and stick by their guns, well
    I can't argue with that.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2010-04-09 14:10:58'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>... How big a discount does a student jewel smith get on his gold & diamonds?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know but if they figured out how to clone it then that would change the
    value of gold, right?"
  created: '2010-04-09 14:19:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Perhaps EULAs could be more sensitive to this particular situation
    </cite>\r\nThere is no particular situation. This is what freelancing is about.
    You pay your own bills and have your own income. You need to charge your clients
    in a way so you cover your expenses and still make your living. Why should you
    be eligible for THEIR software licenses if you work as an independent designer/businessman?
    \r\n\r\nBTW: For FontLab there is a 45% discount for students. "
  created: '2010-04-09 14:24:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Well, I think there *is* one issue regarding students, worth considering:
    \r\n\r\n1. Many colleges or universities that teach design require students to
    produce interesting/compelling/fresh/whatever projects. \r\n\r\n2. Students are
    in competition with each other, and the grading is typically defined by the average/overall
    level of the projects in the class. \r\n\r\n3. If one student uses a \"fresh cool\"
    pirated font, and the other uses a licensed font, but one that he already has
    because it's, say, a part of a standard font library, bundled with some applications
    -- then unfortunately, in many cases, the *first* student gets a better grade.
    \r\n\r\n4. Many design colleges and universities do not require licensing proof
    from students that the assets (fonts, images etc.) they used are legally acquired.
    \r\n\r\n5. Many design colleges and universities do not educate their students
    about licensing issues, and are rather mean with money when it comes to licensing
    assets (say, fonts) for use in class. \r\n\r\n6. The students behave primarily
    by the rules set by the SCHOOL. If the school condones piracy, students will pirate.
    \r\n\r\n7. It is the school's obligation to educate and enforce ethical behavior
    in design among students. \r\n\r\n8. We should primarily report our objections
    to the schools and teachers, not to the students. The student will do *anything*
    that is permitted or condoned by the school to get the credit -- especially if
    his fellow students do so. It must be the school that defines the boundaries.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 14:56:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>There is no particular situation. This is what freelancing is about.
    You pay your own bills and have your own income. You need to charge your clients
    in a way so you cover your expenses and still make your living. Why should you
    be eligible for THEIR software licenses if you work as an independent designer/businessman?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know, it's all good on paper but that is not how it goes down. If I tried to charge
    a studio for a font on a one day job, that they had already paid for I'd be laughed
    out the door and you know it! What about a half day job? I might as well just
    work for free too! After all that's what your beef is about way up the food chain.
    Therefore there <em>is</em> such a situation.\r\n\r\nWhat about two freelancers
    collaborating on a project and buying a font between them? Do they have to set
    up a company just for that one project, then dissolve it afterwards and then who
    gets the rights to the font afterwards?! I am pointing out that the EULA can discriminate
    against well meaning people in this situation."
  created: '2010-04-09 15:09:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Khaled, what you don't address is that all software products are legally
    in the same situation as fonts: they are generally licensed rather than sold,
    and can be easily shared. \r\n\r\nDo you think that it is horrible that if you
    buy a copy of MS Windows or Adobe Photoshop that you are not legally permitted
    to give it away to a thousand people\u2014and they to another thousand?\r\n\r\nThe
    whole software industry rests on this licensing model, so if you object to it,
    I think you should explain how software creators can be paid for their work under
    another model.\r\n\r\nIf you object only to fonts being licensed rather than sold,
    and not to other software being licensed, then why? "
  created: '2010-04-09 15:12:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nIf you are limited to the fonts, that you have licensed, this
    does not necessarily limit your creativity, but it can limit the quality of the
    result of your work. And the aim should not only be doing your best in the limits
    of what you have licensed. Learning GIMP on the Volkshochschule is not the same
    as learning Photoshop wherever. A university, which would control, that all fonts
    and each software, that students use, are licensed, would be a joke. Even if it
    is a university specialized on theology. You expect three times more morality
    than it is taught at the medical faculty of almost all universities."
  created: '2010-04-09 15:21:41'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Hi Ken,\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you have any questions about whether or not you have
    licensed this software, please call the the sales desk at my office, 212 777 6640
    ext. 208. They'll be happy to clarify anything for you, and can put you in touch
    with tech support.\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\n\r\nJonathan Hoefler\r\nPresident,
    Hoefler & Frere-Jones\r\nhttp://www.typography.com"
  created: '2010-04-09 15:37:01'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>(me) ... How big a discount does a student jewel smith get on his gold
    & diamonds?\r\n\r\n(1985) I don't know but if they figured out how to clone it
    then that would change the value of gold, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay -- today <em>I</em>
    figgered that out. Want to buy some gold, half price? It's <em>just like</em>
    the real thing -- only thing missing is the certificate stating it <em>is</em>
    actually gold (you're not getting a copy of that because my name is on it).\r\n\r\nBut
    honestly, it's exactly like the real thing -- a bargain!"
  created: '2010-04-09 16:10:06'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'You can compare IP laws and ethics to many, many different things. In the
    end, though, IP law and ethics is its own weird, murky beast of a thing. '
  created: '2010-04-09 16:21:40'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "By the way, if Ken would be the kind of person, that is searching for pirated
    fonts, he probably already would have discovered, that Gotham belongs to the most
    pirated fonts. And a simple Google search would have shown him, that there are
    a dozens of unprotected directories, in which Gotham is stored in authentic condition.
    Gotham is so easily to get, that a request on a warez forum probably would be
    a joke.\r\n\r\nSome of you seem to believe, they could protect their fonts by
    not providing specimens in PDF format. It is just the other way around. If you
    provide specimens, three from four pirates share the PDF extract. If you don\u2019t
    provide them, it needs a bit longer until one of your fonts is pirated, but then
    four of four pirates share the original, except you still provide your fonts in
    Type 1 only, because then you can be sure, that someone damages the fonts in a
    conversion process and your fonts float around in a damaged condition, which can
    harm your reputation likewise, if potential customers think, that the damaged
    fonts are the real deal.\r\n\r\nSome of your EULA are simply counterproductive.
    If the only way not to violate EULA is to pirate the font (because you can violate
    only contracts, in which you have agreed), then you should not wonder, if potential
    customers don\u2019t license your fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd if those discussions always
    start just because such a young sun glassed guy is asking a simple question, you
    make yourself \tunsympathetic. And being sympathetic is also important in that
    business."
  created: '2010-04-09 16:54:55'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>And if those discussions always start just because such a young sun glassed
    guy is asking a simple question, you make yourself unsympathetic. And being sympathetic
    is also important in that business.</em>\r\n\r\nHaha, that made me laugh. So much
    jibe about his sun glasses.\r\n\r\nTheunis, perhaps you can license me the alchemy
    method you discovered? Then everyone can be happy. That is truly my wish."
  created: '2010-04-09 17:31:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>No, I made the comparison to point that in every other profession (not
    only medicine, but I picked that because it is mine), one have to do a work that
    adds a new value to get paid, but type designers seems to think that it is inherited
    right to keep profiting from work that they did only once years ago and still
    enforce illogical and immoral licensing rights on their customers, which is unique
    to software world.</em>\r\n\r\nBooks authors continue to receive royalties long
    after their work is done. Film actors continue to receive residuals from films
    or television programs long after their work is done. Pharmaceutical manufacturers
    continue to receive payment for their products long after the research which developed
    the drugs is done."
  created: '2010-04-09 17:37:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Haha, that made me laugh. So much jibe about his sun glasses.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly
    because I can\u2019t find this in the Typophile CSS:\r\n\r\n<code>#wrapper {\r\nwidth:840px;\r\nbackground-image:url(/sites/all/themes/MiamiVice/images/FloridaSun.png);\r\nbackground-repeat:repeat-y-chromosom;\r\n}</code>"
  created: '2010-04-09 18:04:11'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: "@Jonathan Hoefler...that made my day. Brilliant!\r\n\r\nBack the EULA...
    I understand it but I too wish there was some way around certain situations like
    the aforementioned \"freelancer in an office for a day\" situation. I watched
    a company shrink from 7 people to 5 to 2...they legally purchased licenses for
    all the computers but at the end of the day they can't recoup those costs. They
    can sell the computers but can't sell the fonts. I get it. I just wish there was
    a realistic way of protecting fonts so they COULD be resold. I know, I know, it's
    not going to happen but a girl can dream.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 20:12:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Jennifer\r\n\r\n<cite>I just wish there was a realistic way of protecting
    fonts so they COULD be resold.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn Germany software can be resold.
    I am relatively sure. An EULA, that forbids that, is not legal in that point.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    know, I know, it's not going to happen but a girl can dream.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    long as the girl does not dream of sporty sun glassed young shiny macbooked helveticonned
    iphoned and -padded guys. Otherwise the girl would violate my EULA."
  created: '2010-04-09 20:38:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Most EULAs have something like this (mine):\r\n\r\n<em>Transfer. You may
    not rent, lease, sublicense, distribute,\r\ndisseminate, give away or lend the
    Fonts. You may permanently\r\ntransfer the Fonts provided the recipient accepts
    the terms of\r\nthis EULA, and if you trash all your copies of the Fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    may not be able to get the price you paid, \r\nbut that's generally the case with
    2nd-hand merchandise."
  created: '2010-04-09 20:51:16'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "EULAs...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eula_3896.png]\r\nIt's the
    issue with typeface."
  created: '2010-04-09 21:52:17'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ Thomas Phinney\r\n<cite>If you buy a book, you don't have the right to
    scan it and distribute PDFs of it to your friends. Or even to photocopy the entire
    thing and send hard copies to your friends.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor around 7000 years
    of human civilization, this was not the case. As one with Islamic background,
    I know for sure that you were allowed to copy, distribute, cite, write commentaries
    on books without asking original author for permissions. There are even cases
    of authors dying before finishing their books and some one else picking it, completing
    the work and releasing it with both names on it. Actually, the model for publishing
    books never involved paying the original author, unless they were the ones making
    and selling the copies, even in this case any one can make and sell other copies.
    And this was the case even with the introduction of printing, and it only changed
    in the last century or so.\r\n\r\nThis is how human civilization was built, Newton
    one said: <cite>If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants</cite>."
  created: '2010-04-09 23:20:06'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ eliason\r\n<cite>Would you be willing to share your plans for pricing/sales/licensing/distribution
    on those projects?</cite>\r\n\r\nAll the three projects are free software, two
    are already under Open Font License (I'm not the only contributor), namely a renewal
    of Zapf and Kunth's Euler mathematical font (With OpenType MATH etc.), and an
    OpenType enriched version of STIX fonts (my work in not affiliated with STIX project,
    though), the other font is a revival of a famous Arabic typeface and I'm yet to
    decide about the license, but most probably it'll be dual licensed under OFL and
    GPLv3."
  created: '2010-04-09 23:28:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Khaled, the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Worshipful_Company_of_Stationers_and_Newspaper_Makers\">Company
    of Stationers</a> held a monopoly on printing and copyright in England for hundreds
    of years.\r\nIn many countries, governments restricted printing (and copyrights)
    because of the seditious power of the printed word.\r\nSo the history of copyrights
    is intimately connected with politics and technology.\r\n\r\nI don't know what
    the situation was with regards to controlling manuscript production prior to the
    invention of printing.\r\n\r\nFor those interested in the history of intellectual
    property, I can recommend <a href=\"http://www.cambridge.org/uk/catalogue/catalogue.asp?isbn=052181006X\">The
    Reading Nation in the Romantic Period</a>, by William St Clair.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-09 23:33:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Khaled, you didn''t address my point above that fonts follow the same model
    as all software sales, so your argument implies all software should be freely
    copyable. '
  created: '2010-04-09 23:36:25'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ William Berkson\r\n<cite>Khaled, what you don't address is that all software
    products are legally in the same situation as fonts: they are generally licensed
    rather than sold, and can be easily shared.\r\n\r\nDo you think that it is horrible
    that if you buy a copy of MS Windows or Adobe Photoshop that you are not legally
    permitted to give it away to a thousand people\u2014and they to another thousand?\r\n\r\nThe
    whole software industry rests on this licensing model, so if you object to it,
    I think you should explain how software creators can be paid for their work under
    another model.\r\n\r\nIf you object only to fonts being licensed rather than sold,
    and not to other software being licensed, then why?</cite>\r\n\r\nI never said
    my concerns are only about type and fonts, but the whole proprietary software
    industry. And yes, to me the whole business model is flowed and immoral. There
    is a vibrant business around free software and it is profiting, and companies
    like Redhat are profiting even in depression years. Free software companies might
    not be multi billion dollar gorillas, but I think it is all agreed that giant
    corporations with near complete monopolies aren't for the best of our interest.\r\n\r\nPS.
    this very forum is running a free CMS on top of a free web server on top of a
    free OS."
  created: '2010-04-09 23:40:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Khaled, \r\n\r\ntwo aspects are in some opposition: the freedom and rights
    of creation against the freedom and rights of use/consumption. Another way to
    look at it is an opposition of the values of an individual vs. the values of the
    public. \r\n\r\nThe freedom and the rights of creation indicate that I should
    be free to create anything and to control what others can do with my creation.
    Philosophically, it's an extension of my personal rights and freedom. If I should
    be free to and have the rights to decide what may and ma not happen with my body
    or my property, by extension this should apply also to things I create. This value
    protects the individual. It defines the liberties of the individual and the duties
    of the public (to respect those liberties). \r\n\r\nThe freedom and the rights
    of use/consumption are values that protect the public. The basis of this paradigm
    is that no individual can acquire property or produce creation in complete isolation,
    so the individual carries some debt towards the public (past, present and future
    generations). Therefore, the public should have some way to \"cash in\" on an
    individual's creations, since those were likely to have been facilitated by the
    public somehow. This defines the liberties of the public and the duties of the
    individual. \r\n\r\nThe entire human life is based on the constant struggle to
    find an optimal balance between those two values. Different political and economic
    systems propose to shift the balance more to the left or more to the right. Liberals
    give more priority to the values of the individual, socialists give more priority
    to the values of the public. There are extremists on both sides, and there are
    lots of people who are somewhere in the middle, trying to find a compromise. \r\n\r\nYou're
    free to have a concern about one model or another, but you should be aware that
    this is simply your *opinion*, as valid as any. Depending on the political and
    economic balance of the world, your country or your community, you may have more
    or less chances to have things done \"your way\" vs. you needing to adopt to things
    being done \"their way\". \r\n\r\nSurely there are opensource models that are
    profitable, and this is why I will always advocate the RIGHT for people to set
    up businesses that operate under an opensource model. But no OBLIGATION. I.e.
    I believe everyone should have a choice to manufacture, create, use, modify etc.
    opensource products, or to produce and use closed-soource products. \r\n\r\nAnd
    this is, in fact, reality: you and I have a choice whether we use Windows, Mac
    OS X or Linux, whether we use Internet Explorer or Firefox or Safari, whether
    we use FontForge or FontLab Studio, whether we use Gotham or Gentium. And we have
    a choice what we want to do with the fruits of our work. You're free to publish
    your fonts under an opensource license, and Hoefler & Frere-Jones are free to
    publish their fonts under a license of their liking. \r\n\r\nThree things I'd
    like to ask you though are: \r\n\r\n1. How come there are so little typographically
    valuable typefaces published under opensource licenses? Most opensource fonts
    are mediocre, or they are knock-offs, or they are drawn by people who obviously
    cannot draw type. \r\n\r\nThere is Nimbus Roman, Tempora LGC, TeX Gyre Termes,
    GNU FreeFont Serif, Doulos SIL and probably a number of other opensource knockoffs
    of Times. There is Nimbus Sans, TeX Gyre Heros, GNU FreeFont Sans and probably
    some more opensource knockoffs of Helvetica. There are at least three opensource
    knockoffs of Palatino (Palladio, TeX Gyre Pagella, FPL Neu). But why are there
    so few good original designs? \r\n\r\n2. You do realize that Hermann Zapf could
    afford to make Euler mostly because he had very successful deals with *commercial*
    font foundries (D. Stempel and later Linotype, Bitstream, URW) which paid his
    bills, so he could *spend* some money (essentially) to design some type that would
    be published under a liberal license. You know that, right? \r\n\r\n3. How do
    you explain the fact that opensource versions of the same designs are far less
    frequently used than commercial versions? Pagella or FPL Neu are less used than
    Palatino or Zapf Calligraphic, Doulos, Tempora or Termes are less used than Times,
    and Charis is less used than ITC Charter. So it seems that people tend to pay
    for closed-source fonts even if free opensource versions with the same design
    exist. Why? \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-10 00:48:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Khaled,\r\nIf instead of it only taking a few seconds of your time to copy
    a font and give to a friend, it would take a years worth of all your time each
    time you did it? Would you still give it away for free to 1,000 friends? or would
    you become far more judicious in your donation of your life to them?"
  created: '2010-04-10 00:55:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Very nice analysis, Adam. Thanks!
  created: '2010-04-10 01:07:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, in some countries such as Germany, restrictions in mass contracts such
    as \"non-transferable licenses\" are invalid (they can only exist in individually
    negotiated contracts). In Germany, the value of business is protected by the law.
    \r\n\r\nThat is, if my company spends $200,000 for software licenses, and the
    licenses are non-transferable, it means that I cannot sell it, which means that
    it has no monetary value. So I cannot include those font licenses in my company's
    assets. In other words, my company just burned $200,000. A high German court ruled
    that such restrictions are invalid.* If I purchase software (or font) licenses,
    I can always sell them. This means that they actually have a value for me. This
    gives me confidence that I don't risk my entire money, that I can get some of
    my investment back if it does not work out for me. \r\n\r\nI would like to encourage
    font vendors to DROP the \"non-transferable\" clause from their EULAs. I don't
    see the vast advantages that they would gain for keeping it, but it undermines
    their credibility, creates distrust in the customers, and actually raises the
    possibility of piracy. I think it is a fair and justifiable question from a client:
    \"Why should I pay so much money for a font license if it has no monetary value
    because I cannot sell it?\" \r\n\r\nI would, however, be very interested in hearing
    from foundries who have included a \"non-transferable\" clause in their EULA why
    they have done so, what rationale is behind it, and how they explain it to their
    users. \r\n\r\nA comparison: if I buy a book, I cannot redistribute the copies
    I make, but I can sell that very book. \r\n\r\nA market of discounted second-hand
    font licenses would have its value. If students or smaller studios can buy second-hand
    font licenses cheaper, it's more likely that they will actually buy one rather
    than pirating it. The \"non-transferable\" clause really sends the wrong message.
    (In fact, in Germany, such market does exist and is doing well.)\r\n\r\nOf course,
    font vendors are free to put any clauses in their EULAs they want, and in many
    countries, their entire EULA will be effective. In some countries, parts of their
    EULA will not be valid. The \"non-transferable\" clause is legal in the U.S. but
    has no effect in Germany. Why would font vendors want to \"punish\" their U.S.
    customers and sell them fonts under worse conditions than to those that their
    German clients get? \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n* Specifically, on one occasion,
    the German courts ruled that a clause in the EULA for System Builder versions
    of Microsoft Windows, which prohibited distributors from selling those versions
    of Microsoft Windows without accompanying hardware, was invalid. The System Builder
    or OEM versions of Microsoft software was much cheaper than the \"normal retail\"
    versions, came without a fancy box with just a serial number, and Microsoft's
    intention was that they should be only sold with new computers. But many distributors
    were selling them to customers without new computers, i.e. \"unbundled\". The
    court said that Microsoft was not allowed to prevent distributors from \"unbundling\"
    those versions of their software, and that such a method of price discrimination
    was illegal. Therefore, in Germany, those versions are being sold legally at a
    fraction of the price of the fancy boxed editions (which are also being sold,
    and are doing very well). \r\n\r\nOn another occasion, the German courts ruled
    that a clause that prohibited reselling of a retail software product was invalid,
    because such clause was \"against public policy\" (\"sittenwidrig\"). \r\n\r\nIn
    both those cases, the German courts clearly favored the public value over the
    individual's value (the individual in those cases would be the software publisher).
    \r\n\r\nThose kinds of decisions are being made all the time. It is completely
    natural for the individual to try to maximize his own rights and liberties, and
    it is the task for the political and judiciary system to restrict and control
    those, and weigh the individual's values against the values of the public. It's
    a constant battle, and in fact, it is the very core of politics (at least, it
    should be), and the core reason why public institutions and governments exist
    (or, should be). "
  created: '2010-04-10 01:46:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nI don't think the university needs to CONTROL it. But it should
    require the students to sign a declaration that they have used legal assets. \r\n\r\nAt
    my university (in Germany, business administration and later cultural anthropology),
    people who wrote essays or diploma theses were required to include a declaration
    that they have produced the text themselves, and that they did not quote any unreferenced
    sources. This requirement was introduced half-way through my course and I remember
    that my fellow students were then more aware of the moral and possible legal implications
    of IP theft. \r\n\r\nI think when teaching design, teaching design ethics should
    actually be an essential, core element of any curriculum. This is EXACTLY what
    a university is for. "
  created: '2010-04-10 01:51:05'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>I think when teaching design, teaching design ethics
    should actually be an essential, core element of any curriculum. This is EXACTLY
    what a university is for.</cite>\r\n\r\nTotally unimportant in case of artistic
    creative professions. Have a look at the latest discussion about Tannenberg on
    the Type ID Board. Even if the NAZIS had set the tattooed number of the people,
    that they have murdered, in Tannenberg, it would not say anything about the quality
    and artificial worth of the font. There are two and only \r\ntwo thing, that are
    immorally in art: If the artist misuses people or animals. (There is an <strong><a
    href=\"http://blogphotos.cybertranslator.idv.tw/kaleidoscope/2008/09/tattooed-pigs.jpg\">artist,
    Wim Delvoye</a></strong>, who tattoos Disney images [I once saw a documentation
    about him on TV.] on the skin of living pigs. I like that project, but I must
    admit, it is immorally.) The second and almost more important thing is, not to
    boast about the creative work of anybody else. So pirating a font or any other
    piece of art or design and changing the copyright info to his own name, that is
    the most immoral thing one can do.\r\n\r\nA person, that needs to be taught, that
    he should not boast about the creative work of others, will never create fine
    art, because he is a mental alga and the best profession for him would be photosynthesis.
    \r\n\r\nBut EULA freaks can trust in the incompetence of politicians:\r\nhttp://www.boingboing.net/2010/04/08/minister-for-digital.html\r\n\r\nI
    am out off topic (as almost all except from Ken), but here a link to another project
    of Wim Delvoye: http://www.wimdelvoye.be/cloacafactory.php#"
  created: '2010-04-10 10:23:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Khaled, you have the merit of consistency. \r\n\r\nThe problem with having
    no legal protection for software becomes particularly clear when we consider music
    and movies. There the usual up-front costs of production are from a hundred thousand,
    for a music album, to tens or even hundreds of millions for a commercial movie.
    Without the money from sales of digital copies of these most probably would never
    get made at all. Also, as others have pointed out before, a lot of production
    of the freely sharable software is subsidized by salaries from universities and
    private industry. These subsidized activities are really special cases, and cannot,
    IMHO, be taken as a general model for everything digital. "
  created: '2010-04-10 12:12:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I like Adam's analysis. In many ways, it parallels the difference between
    \"freedom from\" and \"freedom to\" that confuses so many in the States when the
    topic of \"freedom\" come up.\r\n\r\nAnd I suppose eventually the marketplace
    may sort things out. For example, in the States, there are several university
    presses that have adopted a policy that only Adobe fonts can be used. The usual
    reason given is the generous Adobe EULA, and ease of further licensing for other,
    non-print purposes.\r\n\r\nBut the marketplace is slow, and it could be easy to
    get seriously disadvantaged during this sorting process. For example, there are
    a number of university pressses that require the typesetter to supply them, in
    addition to the PDF used for printing the book, with both the applications files
    and the fonts used. The later breaks the typesetter's EULA. One of our occasional
    customers is such a press, and I have resisted, agreeing to send the application
    files, but not the fonts. This may cost us a customer. \r\n\r\nI am told that
    another large university press -- for whom we do no work, so this is second-hand
    information -- has licenses for all the Adobe fonts and all Monotype fonts. They
    require all designs to use only these fonts. Additionally, typesetter is required
    to include the fonts used as a part of the data sent the publisher at the end
    of the job. Again, technically, even though the press has licensed copies of the
    fonts, this breaks the typesetters EULA (number of copies of fonts allowed).\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to that technical violation, there is another issue. I do work on most
    of our typefaces. For example, our Minion has a number of characters not included
    in the Foundry fonts. There are also extra features and kerning beyond what is
    in the foundry fonts. My belief, perhaps in error, is that one of the reason publishers
    use us is the extra work that has gone into many of our fonts. If I then give
    the publisher the fonts, they could send them to another, less expensive composition
    shop, and a competitive edge we worked quite hard for will be lost.\r\n\r\nI suppose
    we might have some legal recourse, but we are small, and have neither the time
    nor resources for lawsuits. And we still would have broken the EULA, so who knows
    what the courts would decide.\r\n\r\nThe purpose of the EULA should be to protect
    the designer and/or publisher of the fonts. The two things I see that need protection
    are financial compensation, and reputation. As is so often the case, the legal
    language used to try and achieve this creates additional problems. Secondly, the
    information needed by a publisher (how much will it cost) is not readily available
    from many foundries. Thirdly, what is technically feasible with multiple uses
    of data (say, a book in electronic format) keeps outstripping the language of
    the license.\r\n\r\nI don't see obvious solutions. But what font designers have
    to understand is (1) there are legitimate concerns beyond their own, and (2) an
    insistence on stringent protection can result in the marketplace refusing to use
    their products.\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson"
  created: '2010-04-10 15:30:10'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> 4. Many design colleges and universities do not require licensing\r\n>
    proof from students that the assets (fonts, images etc.) they used are \r\n> legally
    acquired.\r\n\r\n???\r\n\r\n\r\n'Many design colleges and universities do not
    require licensing\r\nproof from students that the assets (pens, food, notebooks
    etc.) they used are \r\nlegally acquired.'"
  created: '2010-04-11 01:54:29'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nI've no problem with people expressing their own rights on
    their own \"creations\", but when they want to exchange those \"creations\" with
    my money, their rights stop and my rights begin. They are not doing me a favour,
    they are selling me a product and I, as a customer, have the very right to be
    concerned about my freedom.\r\n\r\nI also have no problem with people doing non-free
    software (and type), though I've my own ethical concerns, but it is still there
    very right to do so, and when it comes to work of artistic value, I can tolerate
    a bit of extra restrictions. What I'm really concerned about is the draconian
    rules most EULA's have, you talked about non-transferable licenses but there are
    also other unbelievable restrictions like number of computers or processors, or
    number of page views (my first reaction reading things like that was WTF), or
    no modification even for personal use (WTF, even a \"viral\" license like GPL
    which requires all modification to be released under GPL, says if you don't distribute
    the modified versions you are not required to release your modifications), or
    other similar draconian rules.\r\n\r\n<cite>There is Nimbus Roman, Tempora LGC,
    TeX Gyre Termes, GNU FreeFont Serif, Doulos SIL and probably a number of other
    opensource knockoffs of Times. There is Nimbus Sans, TeX Gyre Heros, GNU FreeFont
    Sans and probably some more opensource knockoffs of Helvetica. There are at least
    three opensource knockoffs of Palatino (Palladio, TeX Gyre Pagella, FPL Neu).
    But why are there so few good original designs?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd not used the
    word \"knockoff\", all aforementioned fonts are legitimately released under free
    licenses by their copyright holders (Pagella for example based on Palatino version
    Zapf did for URW who later released it under GPL etc.)\r\n\r\nBack to the main
    question, apparently artists, unlike software developers, are not so interested
    in the idea of sharing and free software; you can see many talented programmers
    contributing to free software (and many end up being paid for doing that), but
    you can hardly find any artists, yet the very talented ones. Why is that, I don't
    know and I sincerely wish to know.\r\n\r\n<cite>2. You do realize that Hermann
    Zapf could afford to make Euler mostly because he had very successful deals with
    *commercial* font foundries (D. Stempel and later Linotype, Bitstream, URW) which
    paid his bills, so he could *spend* some money (essentially) to design some type
    that would be published under a liberal license. You know that, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nAFAIK,
    Hermann Zapf were commissioned by AMS to design Euler (Knuth and his students
    did the digitization) and AMS released it under free license (last year they re-licensed
    all their fonts, including Euler under OFL.)"
  created: '2010-04-11 11:42:36'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ dezcom\r\n<cite>If instead of it only taking a few seconds of your time
    to copy a font and give to a friend, it would take a years worth of all your time
    each time you did it? Would you still give it away for free to 1,000 friends?
    or would you become far more judicious in your donation of your life to them?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    was never the point, I can give a book to friend who would hand copy it, and I've
    seen this happening (because the friend didn't even have enough money to photocopy
    it), the point is that that I've the right and the freedom to share it."
  created: '2010-04-11 11:46:45'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ William Berkson\r\n<cite>The problem with having no legal protection for
    software becomes particularly clear when we consider music and movies. There the
    usual up-front costs of production are from a hundred thousand, for a music album,
    to tens or even hundreds of millions for a commercial movie. Without the money
    from sales of digital copies of these most probably would never get made at all.
    Also, as others have pointed out before, a lot of production of the freely sharable
    software is subsidized by salaries from universities and private industry. These
    subsidized activities are really special cases, and cannot, IMHO, be taken as
    a general model for everything digital.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is all based on the
    assumption that giving free copies or allowing people to share their copies will
    hinder sales, but no one took the very basic effort to prove that.\r\n\r\nTo the
    contrary, there are well known occasions of free sharing increasing sales. For
    example the Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho is known for <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paulo_Coelho#File_Sharing\">\"pirating\"
    his own books and spreading it through per-to-pear networks</a> which increased
    not decreased book sales.\r\n\r\nThere is also that Norwegian study finding that
    <a href=\"http://www.guardian.co.uk/music/2009/apr/21/study-finds-pirates-buy-more-music\"><cite>those
    who downloaded \"free\" music \u2013 whether from lawful or seedy sources \u2013
    were also 10 times more likely to pay for music.</cite></a>"
  created: '2010-04-11 12:02:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>  To the contrary, there are well known occasions of free sharing increasing
    sales. For example the Brazilian novelist Paulo Coelho is known for \"pirating\"
    his own books and spreading it through per-to-pear networks which increased not
    decreased book sales. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not familiar with this case, but it seems
    that an important point here is that it was the author's own choice to take this
    particular action. Most instances of piracy are done *against* the wishes of the
    author/designer, so this instance hardly can be used as part of an ethical comparison.\r\n\r\nI'm
    dubious of claims that piracy as a general rule increases sales, but even if this
    turns out to be the case, one can't use this as a justification for theft of intellectual
    property -- after all, it is well within one's rights to choose a marketing or
    sales strategy which may be less than optimal.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-11 15:14:19'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: ">>when they want to exchange those \"creations\" with my money, their rights
    stop and my rights begin.\r\n\r\nThat's just plain wrong. If you purchase a font
    license you enter a legal contract. The vendor offers a product under certain
    conditions and the moment you purchase the license you agree to these conditions
    and you enter the contract. It's not any different from signing a contract for
    renting an apartment, where you are bound to certain rules and will be legally
    held responsible if you break them. \r\nYou have no \"right\" to exceed the number
    of CPUs/page views or whatever. You have voluntarily agreed to these restrictions.
    And as I have explained before: These are not \"draconian rules\": The price of
    the fonts is directly based on these restrictions (\u2013 calculated in a way
    to make a living for the designer and foundry from the expected sales). If you
    want a font license with no limitations, you can have that \u2013\_but for a very
    different price. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 15:33:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I'm dubious of claims that piracy as a general rule increases sales,
    but even if this turns out to be the case, one can't use this as a justification
    for theft of intellectual property</cite>\r\n\r\nOh man, 99.9% percent of all
    pirates neither change the name of the font nor the name of the designer stored
    in the copyright info. It can be a theft of intellectual property only, if another
    person claims, that he is the designer.\r\n\r\n@ Ralf Hermann\r\n\r\nAs I already
    said,you cannot break contracts, in which you have not agreed. And if your EULA
    has absurd limitations, you should not wonder, if potential customers don\u2019t
    agree, because they have to fear, that they loose their license. So at least you
    should guarantee, that those ones, that violate your EULA in your opinion, get
    their money back, if they loose their license. Do you guarantee that? I assume,
    you don\u2019t. As long as the pirates don\u2019t steal all of the backups of
    your fonts, they cannot steal your fonts."
  created: '2010-04-11 15:51:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "And please don\u2019t compare the piracy of fonts with the piracy of music.
    If you confederate with the music industry, you really loose sympathy. If you
    claim, that you have the same problem as the music industry, people think, that
    you are in a comparable financial situation."
  created: '2010-04-11 16:05:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Khaled, \r\n\r\nThere is every strong evidence that [[http://asne.org/article_view/articleid/12/u-s-newsroom-employment-declines-12.aspx|employment
    of journalists has declined]], because of decline in newspaper sales, on account
    of free internet news. This is the subject of very widespread discussion and concern
    in the US. \r\n\r\n>There is also that Norwegian study finding that those who
    downloaded \"free\" music \u2013 whether from lawful or seedy sources \u2013 were
    also 10 times more likely to pay for music.\r\n\r\nYou are missing the fact that
    people are moved to buy because they want to be legal. Under your rules, it would
    not be illegal to share all music, videos, software applications, or fonts. All
    digital files would be \"shareware,\" in the sense of free, fully functional files
    for which producers could only ask for contributions. While there is a still some
    niche market for such software, the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shareware|Wikipedia
    article on Shareware]] makes clear that the once widespread practice of shareware
    in Games, for example, contracted to a small part of the market because by paying
    programmers and writers, commercial firms were able to produce superior games.
    \r\n\r\nI think that recent history shows that under the free shareware + contribution
    model, the great majority of the fantastic software we have available would not
    exist. \r\n\r\nFurther, it seems your position is against any kind of intellectual
    property rights. This would go back to the time when publishers could print a
    new edition of a book by an author without paying the author. \r\n\r\nWhether
    something is just or not depends on whether there is another way to organize society
    that will get the same benefits in a way that is fairer. It seems to me that your
    proposal--all shareware--is proven not viable as getting the same benefits, both
    in fonts and in other digital products such as games, music, and movies. Therefore,
    I think you cannot legitimately argue that anything but free shareware is unethical.
    \r\n\r\nIf producers don't get paid, you will get fewer quality products. Therefore,
    if you want a realistic alternative, it has to include a realistic way for producers
    to get an income. "
  created: '2010-04-11 16:08:39'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "@Arno Enslin \r\n>>you cannot break contracts, in which you have not agreed.
    \r\n\r\nSure. But I was referring to customers who bought the font license, but
    think they are not bound to the EULA. If you are talking about pirated commercial
    fonts, then obtaining the fonts is already illegal. Breaking the EULA or downloaded
    fonts illegally \u2013\_it doesn't make a difference.  \r\n(I already agreed that
    \"stealing\" is not the right word in this context.)\r\n\r\nBTW: Our EULA allows
    to modify the fonts and you are free to sell the fonts again, if you agree to
    let us know, so we can file the change of the licensee in our database. Not so
    draconian after all, is it?"
  created: '2010-04-11 16:20:42'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>you should guarantee, that those ones, that violate your EULA in your
    opinion, get their money back, if they loose their license. Do you guarantee that?
    </cite>\r\n\r\nIs this a serious question? \r\nThen every user could just use
    the font (to set a brochure/logo or whatever), break the license voluntarily and
    ask for the money back. Software is a non-returnable good once it was used or
    unsealed \u2013\_according to the law \u2013\_for example here in Germany. "
  created: '2010-04-11 16:44:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Ralf Herrmann\r\n\r\nYou mean I can get a single user license and then
    I am allowed to sell the font? Cool. Probably you are talking about an all user
    license for a custom font. Anything like this. But I will have a look at your
    EULA.\r\n\r\n<cite>If you are talking about pirated commercial fonts, then obtaining
    the fonts is already illegal.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs far as I know, downloading commercial
    software, music and so on is allowed (not punishable) in Germany. (You are not
    allowed to use it in your company. And you are not allowed to upload it.)\r\n\r\nEdited\r\n\r\nWhich
    EULA do you mean? The one from FDI fonts?"
  created: '2010-04-11 17:01:13'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>You mean I can get a single user license and then I am allowed to sell
    the font? </cite>\r\n\r\nIt means that you can transfer the standard user license
    of any font you bought to another user/company. If you do this for free or charge
    for it, is up to you. You need to delete all fonts and the new user will henceforth
    be treated as if he had purchased the license. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 17:03:13'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ agisaak\r\n<cite>I'm not familiar with this case, but it seems that an
    important point here is that it was the author's own choice to take this particular
    action. Most instances of piracy are done *against* the wishes of the author/designer,
    so this instance hardly can be used as part of an ethical comparison.</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    said just above the paragraph you cited:<cite>That is all based on the assumption
    that giving free copies or allowing people to share their copies will hinder sales.</cite>"
  created: '2010-04-11 17:07:45'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Ralf\r\n\r\nYes, sure it is a serious question. Who is in the burden of
    proof, if you claim, that your EULA was violated?\r\n\r\nI just saw, that your
    EULA does not include the permission to create a PDF for commercial purposes.
    You have to get an extra license, if you want to do that. So, if I have a comercial
    website, on which I publish a PDF, for which I have used one of your fonts, you
    could say, that this already is a violation of your EULA, because it may be, that
    I earn more money with my website, because I have published the nice PDF with
    your font there, although the PDF can be downloaded for free."
  created: '2010-04-11 17:09:14'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ William Berkson\r\n<cite>There is every strong evidence that employment
    of journalists has declined, because of decline in newspaper sales, on account
    of free internet news. This is the subject of very widespread discussion and concern
    in the US.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is because journalists fail to provide a kind of service
    that people want, when was it last time you read anything interesting a newspaper?
    Here in my country, newspaper do \"steal\" stories from bolgs! You don't keep
    your business by locking-in you customers, but providing the service they are
    looking for.\r\n\r\n<cite>You are missing the fact that people are moved to buy
    because they want to be legal.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, you are telling me that people
    were buying Coelho books because they are afraid that he, who pirated his own
    books, would sue them?\r\n\r\n<cite>All digital files would be \"shareware,\"
    in the sense of free, fully functional files for which producers could only ask
    for contributions.</cite>\r\n\r\nI never talked about shareware, I'm talking and
    advocating free software; a software model in which you can make money in many
    different ways other than over charging your users or forcing draconian licensing
    rules on them.\r\n\r\n<cite>Further, it seems your position is against any kind
    of intellectual property rights.</cite>\r\nThat is your own interpretation. To
    me, intellectual rights is your right for your own work to be attributed to you,
    and doing otherwise is a theft of your intellectual \"property\" (though I don't
    agree with the term \"property\" here, but lets not get into this now).\r\n\r\n<cite>This
    would go back to the time when publishers could print a new edition of a book
    by an author without paying the author.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd this is a bad thing?"
  created: '2010-04-11 17:12:34'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Who is in the burden of proof, if you claim, that your EULA was violated?</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably
    we are. Backed up by a decision of a court. \r\n\r\n<cite>I just saw, that your
    EULA does not include the permission to create a PDF for commercial purposes.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nYou read wrong. You only need an additional license if you sell
    each copy of this PDF. "
  created: '2010-04-11 17:14:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Ralf\r\n\r\nYes, you are right. The paragraph above the one, to which I
    was regarding, excludes another interpretation. But what is with websites, on
    which the membership costs anything? If I publish PDF with hardcore and Graublau
    on my xxx website? Is the PDF free of charge then or do my customers pay partly
    for the PDF, although I only take money for the membership from them? I mean,
    you don\u2019t belong to the bad guys, but my question is not wayward."
  created: '2010-04-11 17:38:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Khaled, \r\n\r\n> I'm talking and advocating free software; a software model
    in which you can \r\n> make money in many different ways other than over charging
    your users or \r\n> forcing draconian licensing rules on them.\r\n\r\nWhat do
    you mean by \"over charging\"? There are tens of thousands of fonts on the market.
    If people decide to buy certain fonts, they agree to the price. If the price is
    too high for them, they just buy a cheaper font. And they do with a \"free\" font.
    \r\n\r\nDraconian licensing rules are not exclusive to closed-source software.
    GPL licensing rules are draconian. And there are many licenses, both opensource
    and closed-source, that cannot be called \"draconian\". \r\n\r\nYou seem to be
    viewing everything that is not \"white\" by your own rules as \"black\". That's
    a naive view, in my opinion. \r\n\r\nOne can dispute certain aspects of any model
    \u2014 such as I have done above in the case of the \"non-transferable\" rule
    in some font EULAs, or as I frequently do in case of GPL or the abuse (privatization)
    of the word \"free\" by some opensource advocates \u2014 but I think completely
    dismissing one model and blindly advocating another is somewhat immature, I think.
    \r\n\r\nThe world would not be a better place if all software were opensource
    overnight. It's more refined than that. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 18:49:48'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> AFAIK, Hermann Zapf were commissioned by AMS to design Euler \r\n> (Knuth
    and his students did the digitization) and AMS released \r\n> it under free license
    (last year they re-licensed all their \r\n> fonts, including Euler under OFL.)\r\n\r\nSo
    what you're saying is that the opensourcing process of Euler was paid by students
    of Stanford University, whose tuition money was used to pay for Knuth's and his
    students' time, or by the members of the American Mathematical Society, whose
    annual membership fees were used to pay for Zapf's, Knuth's and the students'
    time? \r\n\r\nWell, that's a model just as OK as anything else. I don't see how
    it would be any better or worse from me paying directly the price for the fonts
    I use. Some people can advocate that it's better, others can advocate that it's
    worse. If I'm a student at Stanford University, I pay my tuition but I have no
    control how this money is spent. This also happens with taxes. I need to trust
    the institution that distributes the money (the university, the state) to use
    my money wisely and somehow use my or someone else's money to produce goods or
    deliver services that somehow will also be beneficial to myself. Otherwise, there's
    no sense in paying tuitions or taxes. \r\n\r\nIt's not like opensource fonts or
    software \"magically get paid for themselves\", or that the opensource models
    use some \"other ways\" to make money that are inherently better than straight
    licensing fees. Lots of opensource projects are financed by educational and research
    institutions that get the money from, among others, me. So *I pay*. Sometimes
    for stuff that is useful to me, sometimes for stuff that is useless to me. \r\n\r\nBut
    I pay because I subscribe to the system of tax-funded investments since some projects
    are better done that way. But I also subscribe to the system or private payments
    because other projects are better realized that way. Looking for an optimal mixture
    is the big goal. \r\n\r\nWhat you're advocating, i.e. opensourcing everything,
    means that everything will be state-funded from my taxes. Everything is \"common
    goods\". It's a nice system. \r\n\r\nWait... I actually grew up and lived in such
    system. The country was called People's Republic of Poland, it existed from 1945
    to 1989. The system was called \"socialism\" or \"real socialism\" by its proponents
    (who liked very much to talk about \"freedom\" in the sense that they defined
    for their own purpose), and \"communism\" by everyone else. \r\n\r\nThere is general
    consensus among the people who actually lived in that system that they're better
    up when the system is now gone. I agree with them. But good luck in your effort
    to set up Communism 2.0. Perhaps it'll be better than Communism 1.0. \r\n\r\nBut
    please, count me out from your experiments. I prefer to live the way I live now.
    That's *real* freedom. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 19:05:20'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "What precisely are the mechanics and technicalities of a \"transfer\" of
    a valid license of a font? Given the finding that such a right is ethically and
    legally sound (<em>pace</em> any EULA to the contrary), how does it bear out in
    practice?\r\n\r\nA traditional criterion might be the transfer of the physical
    media (i.e., disk) on which said font software was sold. Now that most fonts are
    sold via direct download, one might specify the original software file (customarily
    a .zip file containing font files, license, and supporting documentation). Personally,
    I do not see why anyone would pay for such a transfer (of a \"used\" font) in
    the absence of receiving these originating documents.\r\n\r\nWould anyone like
    to share an anecdote regarding the transfer of font licenses?\r\n\r\nAdditionally,
    since some of the more savvy font vendors maintain records of purchased fonts,
    why couldn't a customer elect to transfer ownership to a different user within
    the system, after which the font would no longer be available for download by
    the original customer?"
  created: '2010-04-11 19:32:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nHehe, you don\u2019t seem to be a lost vote for my comrades.
    No experiments! Thank you Fox News for keeping us infromed!"
  created: '2010-04-11 19:57:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Khaled, what is wrong with \"creative\" individuals being able to capitalize
    digital products?\r\nI reject the idea that intellectual property should not be
    productized, because it restricts me to generating income from fees or accessories
    (merchandise such as T-shirts). \r\nWhy should the mass digital market not be
    open to individual content creators, and only to Big Silicon, with its hardware,
    major applications, and internet service provision? Micro-payment seems like an
    idea whose time will come.\r\n\r\nThis talk about \"fonts should be free\" (type
    designers, please find another way to make a living) occurs because it is easy
    to pirate fonts, and otherwise righteous folk who have done so feel called upon
    to justify their actions. There is also the Marxist critique. And the \"work is
    not art, only ideas are\" conceptual/curatorial perspective. And the \"all typefaces
    are just copies of other typefaces anyway\" camp. What all these have in common
    is those who don't get what my form of \"creative\" is, and/or don't value it,
    would like me to work for less, preferably for nothing. Thanks, but I prefer not
    to be a ragged-trousered philanthropist.\r\n\r\nSure, a certain amount of \"free\"
    (from piracy, free/share-ware, and bundling) is built into the font market presently
    and does to an extent catalyze and grease it. But it exists in balance with the
    typical font EULA. That is the nature of marketplaces, as Thomas and Nick have
    pointed out. Complex, homeostatic.\r\n\r\nIdeally, I would like to live in a world
    where property is theft, but that doesn't appear to be practical. Please don't
    pick on type designers as your scapegoat for this shortcoming. This is a fledgling
    creative industry that should be encouraged."
  created: '2010-04-11 20:04:51'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>pace any EULA to the contrary</cite>\r\n\r\nThe usual \"non-transferrable\"
    clause just means you can't transfer the license without the foundry. I a pretty
    sure that many foundries will agree to transfer a license on request. \r\n\r\n<cite>Personally,
    I do not see why anyone would pay for such a transfer (of a \"used\" font) in
    the absence of receiving these originating documents.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's why
    you need the foundry. They will send the original licensee a form where they agree
    to the transfer and agree to delete all the files. The new licensee will be treated
    as if they had bought the license directly from the vendor. \r\n\r\nA good example
    would be the new webfonts. A webdesign studio might buy licenses of a couple of
    webfonts from FSI and suggest them to a client. Once the client chooses one, this
    font license would then be transfered to the client with aproval from FSI. "
  created: '2010-04-11 20:19:05'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I want to see an example of this fictional business model where, I as the
    designer, can make more money giving away fonts than I can make selling them.
    I've given away over 100,000 free for personal use license fonts on various sites
    and haven't made a plug nickle. Now, I'm not stupid enough to think that these
    fonts are not ending up on commercial layouts. I'm also not stupid enough to think
    that these designers aren't getting paid while using my fonts. So, where are my
    big profits. I've got an electrric bill due soon.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I find some
    of the EULAs draconian (gotta love that word.) Simple solution, don't buy from
    those designers/foundries and choose a different font. On the other hand, I wish
    that I could come up with a font or family that I could sell for such prices and
    folks would grumble about my EULAs.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-12 16:42:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>As I already said,you cannot break contracts, in which you have not
    agreed. And if your EULA has absurd limitations, you should not wonder, if potential
    customers don\u2019t agree</em>\r\n\r\nTo which you have not agreed? Actually,
    you <strong>have agreed</strong> to it at the moment you purchase a license to
    the fonts, that is how most EULA's work. The act of purchasing it, is agreeing
    to the contract.\r\n\r\n> <em>Back to the main question, apparently artists, unlike
    software developers, are not so interested in the idea of sharing and free software;
    you can see many talented programmers contributing to free software (and many
    end up being paid for doing that), but you can hardly find any artists, yet the
    very talented ones. Why is that, I don't know and I sincerely wish to know.</em>\r\n\r\nBecause
    those \"artists\" have a business to run, a house to pay and food to buy. You
    can't do that by sharing or giving your goods away for free, even if there could
    be a potential fee at some point down the line. You have to realise a lot of type
    designers are a one-man-business, they earn their living with selling their typefaces.
    Please explain how you imagine a type designer earning a living by open-sourcing
    their typefaces if those typefaces are their only source of income?\r\n\r\n> <em>I've
    no problem with people expressing their own rights on their own \"creations\",
    but when they want to exchange those \"creations\" with my money, their rights
    stop and my rights begin. They are not doing me a favour, they are selling me
    a product and I, as a customer, have the very right to be concerned about my freedom.</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    they are not selling you a product, but licensing it to you. Basically, you are
    <em>renting</em> it. As with any rented goods, you are never free to do what you
    want with it. If you want to <em>buy</em> a typeface to be able do everything
    you want with it, you could always try to acquire the rights to the design, but
    that would obviously cost you thousands if not tens of thousands of dollars/euros.
    :)\r\n\r\n<em>That was never the point, I can give a book to friend who would
    hand copy it, and I've seen this happening (because the friend didn't even have
    enough money to photocopy it), the point is that that I've the right and the freedom
    to share it.</em>\r\n\r\nNot really actually, as most books contain a disclaimer
    in the colophon stating something like this: \"No part of this book may be reproduced
    in any form by any electronic or mechanical means (including photocopying, recording,
    or information storage and retrieval) without permission in writing from the publisher\".
    Whenever it says something like that, you do not have the right and freedom to
    share it in the way you describe.\r\n\r\n> <em>I'm talking and advocating free
    software; a software model in which you can make money in many different ways
    other than over charging your users or forcing draconian licensing rules on them.</em>\r\n\r\nOvercharging?
    If you can't afford a particular product, then you find an alternative that you
    can afford! This is true for every product, including typefaces. I really can't
    see why typefaces or software in general should be any different.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-12 17:10:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>To which you have not agreed? Actually, you have agreed  to it at the
    moment you purchase a license to the fonts, that is how most EULA's work. The
    act of purchasing it, is agreeing to the contract.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure. But if
    you don\u2019t license a font, you cannot violate the EULA, because you have not
    agreed in it. You cannot loose a license, if you have none. "
  created: '2010-04-12 18:20:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There are very, very few type designers who can charge higher than market
    prices and still make money. Those few make much, much more than the typical typeface
    designer. They are a combination of very good, very famous, and very well marketed.
    There are enough people who are willing to pay their asking price that they have
    no need to worry about selling to "starving minimally employed graphic designers"
    and students. I don't see this as any more of a problem than buying a Ferrari.
    Sure, I would like to have one of the hideously expensive cars but I cannot even
    afford to dream about it so I don't. I buy the typically priced car and drive
    it until it dies. Is the new Ferrari worth 50 times more than my 10 year old Volkswagon
    Jetta? Probably not. Would it be sensible for me to buy one anyway? Surely not.
    Does that amount of head-turning appeal, cache, gloat-ability,  wrongly perceived
    Babe-Magnetism or studly penis-envy make the car justifiable for theft? Not to
    me. I know I can't have all the toys that look amusing in the world. Like most
    people, I know the rich kids get the most expensive toys, and I could care less.
    Would I like it if my fonts sold at high prices? Sure I would. oh well, such is
    life. My VW gets me there and back just the same and I don't have to worry about
    where I park it.
  created: '2010-04-12 18:36:33'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Sure. But if you don\u2019t license a font, you cannot violate the
    EULA, because you have not agreed in it. You cannot loose a license, if you have
    none.</em>\r\n\r\nA license is a document that tells you what you can and cannot
    do with a product. If you have not agreed to the licence (i.e. by downloading
    the product) you don't have any rights to use the product at all, because those
    haven't been granted to you."
  created: '2010-04-13 14:07:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Quincunx, \r\n\r\nthat is very true. General copyright legislation works
    so that unless you haven't been granted any rights, you don't have any rights.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-04-13 18:35:56'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Sure; again. But I only try not to be a bad man, which means, that I have
    not agreed in the laws. In other words, I don\u2019t respect laws, just because
    they are laws and therefore, as some people seem to think, moral instances. So
    at least in case of me, the argument, that I would violate laws, does not work.
    But for clarification: Having unlicensed fonts stored on my harddisk for testing
    purposes and private use is absolute okay. Earning money with the help of these
    fonts would be absolute not okay.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion especially the comment
    with the Helveticons in the beginning of the thread was really embarrassing and
    abhorrent, especially because at that point of time nobody could know, that the
    topic starter of this topic is the son of a rich man. If I would be Ken, I would
    not have justified for using the Helveticons. I simply had said \"**** you!\"
    or I had ignored that comment."
  created: '2010-04-13 20:39:46'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em>Sure; again. But I only try not to be a bad man, which means, that
    I have not agreed in the laws. In other words, I don\u2019t respect laws, just
    because they are laws and therefore, as some people seem to think, moral instances.
    So at least in case of me, the argument, that I would violate laws, does not work.</em>\r\n\r\nSo,
    basically you just pick and choose which laws you like and which laws you don't
    like. Firstly, that is a very weak argument. Secondly, how is depriving a type
    designer of their income by downloading their work for free moral? And lastly,
    we should be glad that not everybody picks and chooses which laws they like to
    follow."
  created: '2010-04-13 21:35:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>So, basically you just pick and choose which laws you like and which
    laws you don't like.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf a law is absurd and if the risk is low,
    naturally! I don\u2019t have a contract with the rulers.\r\n\r\n<cite>Secondly,
    how is depriving a type designer of their income by downloading their work for
    free moral?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou don\u2019t get it. In your imagination there seem
    to be small men riding through cables or on electromagnetic waves. And each of
    them has a big bag, in which he puts all the robbed peas, carrots, Audi A3s, Porsches
    and Ferraris. You even don\u2019t know, that a Jaguar is the only acceptable car
    for a man. (I don\u2019t have a car that I could have bought from the win of the
    sold peas which the small men have carried to me.) Downloading does not hurt anyone.
    Earning money with unlicensed fonts hurts. I am really nerved by all this paranoia."
  created: '2010-04-13 22:01:16'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> You don\u2019t get it. In your imagination there seem to be small
    men riding through cables or on electromagnetic waves. And each of them has a
    big bag, in which he puts all the robbed peas, carrots, Audi A3s, Porsches and
    Ferraris. You even don\u2019t know, that a Jaguar is the only acceptable car for
    a man. (I don\u2019t have a car that I could have bought from the win of the sold
    peas which the small men have carried to me.) Downloading does not hurt anyone.
    Earning money with unlicensed fonts hurts. I am really nerved by all this paranoia.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nCopyright isn't exclusively concerned with money (though remedies
    for copyright violations frequently are). Copyright asserts the designer\u2019s
    right to control the distribution of their intellectual property. If a designer
    has opted to only distribute their font to people who have purchased a license,
    what gives you the right to flout these terms and make use of their font against
    their express wishes? The fact that you are using it for 'private use' doesn't
    seem morally relevant to me.\r\n\r\nI don't equate unlicensed use of a font with
    stealing a ferrari anymore than I equate stealing a ferrari with killing babies,
    but this has no ethical relevance. The fact that action X isn't the same as action
    Y where action Y is clearly bad has no bearing on the defensibility of action
    X.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-04-13 22:42:08'
date: '2010-04-06 23:37:34'
node_type: forum
title: Issue with Typeface

---
