---
author:
  name: Evie
body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\ni'm hoping for some help as i'm still learning to work
  properly in Indesign. Hope i'm not sounding to stupid but  I'm making a litl 10
  page booklet and i'm having some trouble with making a perfect pdf for print.\r\n\r\na
  few questions:\r\n\r\n- I took all the pictures myself and they are all jpeg format(150dpi),
  do i import them into Indesign as an RGB or CMYK for print, and how do i actually
  convert them correctly is it simply opening the image in photoshop, image / mode
  / RGB or CMYK and save it?\r\n\r\n- for importing the images in indesign i do the
  following: i use the rectangle frame tool to draw a box, go to \"file / place and
  then select the image. if for example my image is bigger than the frame i just use
  the direct selection tool (white arrow), select the picture and just scale it down.
  is this the trick or does this mess up the quality of the eventual printed document.\r\n\r\nReason
  why i'm asking these questions is because lots of times my pictures don't look sharp
  after printing them, sometimes pixeled.\r\n\r\nhere's how i make the printable pdf:
  when the document is finished i got to \"file / adobe pdf presets\" and choose \"high
  quality print\" basically that's it. \r\n\r\nmost of the time i end up with poor
  quality prints for the images and i don't know what i'm doing wrong so i would really
  appreciate it loads if you could help a beginner out.\r\n\r\nthank you so much in
  advance\r\n\r\nEvie\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: "Hello, Evie!\r\n\r\nFirst of all, you have to decide in your InDesign layout
    how big your image has to be (width/height of the image box in mm or in).\r\n\r\nAfter
    that you open your image in Photoshop and select the crop tool (shortcut: C).
    In the upper horizontal bar you will see some fields for setting the crop tool.
    You set up there the width and height of the picture box from InDesign and, in
    the last field, set the resolution to 300 dpi (not 150). This makes the crop tool
    to constrain proportionally to these settings. After you crop it how you see fit,
    you convertit to CMYK (Image>Mode>CMYK) and then save it as a tif file.\r\n\r\nNow
    you have an image with the metric dimensions as it will appear on the printed
    brochure at 300 dpi (standard for print). If at 100% zoom setting in Photoshop
    this image appears of low quality, then you need an initial larger image to work
    with - otherwise it will print poorly. If it's OK, you simply place it in InDesign,
    as you described.\r\n\r\nWhen you export your PDF for print from InDesign, you
    go to File>Export>PDF. A panel will appear with settings categorized in the left
    column. Somewhere there you will find settings for dealing with raster files.
    You select from the drop-down menu \"no compression\" and \"do not downsample\"
    CMYK files. This should export you a PDF ready for print."
  created: '2010-04-11 18:55:20'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Also, you could select the "pre-press" or "press ready" (don''t remember
    the exact English phrasing) setting exporting option for the PDFs. '
  created: '2010-04-11 19:02:19'
- author:
    name: Kristians Sics
    picture: 118465
  body: First of all you have to decide where, how and on what type of paper you will
    print it. The resolution of your photo depends of the raster the typography will
    use to print your document. The size of raster depends from the paper. On the
    glossy paper you can use 175 lpi or even denser raster, so accordingly you need
    your pictures 300 - 340 dpi. If you use the offset paper (for example Arctic Paper
    design range like Munken Lynx) you have to increase the dot size to 133 - 150
    lpi otherwise the fibres of paper will stick to the press form and the result
    will look like mud. Then the picture of 240 dpi will do. Just when you convert
    RGB to CMYK use the correct profile or ask the printers if they have any preferences.
    Usually for the glossy paper I convert everything to Euroscale version2, but by
    the method of trial and error fine lingerie photos I submit in Euroscale v.1.
    Offset paper manufacturers usually have their profiles for each paper for download
    in their webpages. And for the best results do the final sharpening when you have
    resized your picture to 100% in the needed resolution just before converting to
    CMYK.
  created: '2010-04-11 19:59:11'
- author:
    name: Evie
  body: "wow, thank you SO much for explaining and taking your time to help me out
    here, trying it as we speak, only one more small question just to make sure i'm
    doing it ok.\r\n\r\n\"Somewhere there you will find settings for dealing with
    raster files. You select from the drop-down menu \"no compression\" and \"do not
    downsample\" CMYK files.\"\r\n\r\ni'm asuming this is under the \"compression\"
    tab?...there i have different possibility's to choose \"no compression\" and \"do
    not downsample\" under: colour images, grayscale images or monochrome images.
    in this case i'm using black and white pictures as well as colour pictures in
    the booklet, so i just do this with both \"colour images and grayscale images
    wright? \r\n\r\nand do i save black & white pictures also best as .tif file?\r\n\r\nagain
    thank you so much for all your help, really helped me out a great deal!!"
  created: '2010-04-11 20:08:19'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: Now that's expert advice ^ !
  created: '2010-04-11 20:11:11'
- author:
    name: Evie
  body: "hey Kristians,\r\n\r\nto be honost with you i don't think i'm there yet to
    know what resolutions to use for what particular kind of paper. non the less very
    useful to know!\r\n\r\nmost of the time i will be printing on pretty regular,
    the not so expensive book paper but i need to get some more education about paper
    types and stuff\r\n\r\nexactly where/how do i chose the profile when converting
    to CMYK ?"
  created: '2010-04-11 20:24:08'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: "Ha, we cross-posted. Kristians Sics describes some really advanced methods.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    Evie, the answer is yes. Save both the grayscale and CMYK files as tif files.
    The simple fact that they look black-and-white doesn't mean anything. They could
    be either RGB, CMYK or grayscale. To be sure, convert the BW images to grayscale
    (if your BW images do not contain hues of gray and depict only hard black shapes,
    you could try to use a rich black in CMYK mode - that is assigning percentages
    of cyan, magenta and yellow to the 100% Black or K - just be sure not to go above
    240% total ink coverage).\r\n\r\nTo Kristians: does it make any difference if
    you sharpen the image after resizing while in RGB or CMYK mode?"
  created: '2010-04-11 20:26:40'
- author:
    name: Kristians Sics
    picture: 118465
  body: "1) Books (I mean literature) usually are printed on offset paper SO BE CAREFUL!!!
    Picture books are printed on glossy paper so there is nothing to worry. Euroscale
    will be ok. \r\n2) \"do not downsample\" mean in pdf the resolution will not change.
    If you prepare pictures at 100% may it not worry you.\r\n3) \"no compression\"
    means the tiff will be ziped (so you'll get a big file size) I always make with
    JPG with quality \"Maximum\". Your linked file will remain tiff if you want to
    work with it but in pdf a high quality jpg will be embedded - it is ok for printing.\r\n4)
    about sharpening - I try to edit my photos in Adobe RGB mode not to loose any
    of colour information. I just made it to me a habit. To get perfect cmyk conversions
    so I can be sure than there are no excessive ink coverage. But I may be wrong.
    There are other designers retouching already cmyked pictures and getting good
    results."
  created: '2010-04-11 21:27:57'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: Also, to change the color settings in Photoshop, you go to "Edit>Color Settings"
    and select "Euroscale coated v2" from the dropdown menu of CMYK if you can't find
    it, just click on the "More Options" button on the right. You also do this in
    InDesign.
  created: '2010-04-11 21:45:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Re: the proper color profile. If you''re having the booklet printed, it''s
    best to check with your printer about what works best for them. For instance,
    at the last printing company I worked for, they used a 200 lpi screen setting
    for all their jobs, which required ratcheting down the magenta about 20% and implementing
    GCR (Gray Component Removal), per recommendations from a GATF technician.'
  created: '2010-04-11 22:29:21'
- author:
    name: Evie
  body: hey thnx for all the help everyone. much appreciated
  created: '2010-04-11 22:58:07'
- author:
    name: klickverbot
  body: 'I am just a DTP layman being curious: On the few publication that went through
    my hands, I have always embedded the original full-size RGB images (with embedded
    profiles, mostly Adobe RGB and ProPhoto RGB) and let InDesign take care of converting
    them to the target color space on exporting the PDF. What are the downsides to
    this approach?'
  created: '2010-04-11 23:01:27'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: "<cite> What are the downsides to this approach? </cite>\r\n\r\nErratic results."
  created: '2010-04-11 23:13:52'
- author:
    name: Evie
  body: "heyhey i'm trying everything out, when i save as a .tiff file i get to choose
    the tiff image compression options (CS3, do i just choose \"jpeg\" here? or \"none\".
    when choosing non in the tiff options i get like a 49mb image :D so i guess i
    choose jpeg wright?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-11 23:49:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>i get to choose the tiff image compression options</cite>\r\n\r\nUse
    LZW."
  created: '2010-04-12 00:24:14'
- author:
    name: klickverbot
  body: "Sorry for hijacking this thread again, but what exactly can cause \xBBerratic
    results\xAB?\r\nI am just trying to understand which possible mistakes I could
    make this way (so far, my approach has worked well enough, but I am not very proficient
    when it comes to professional printing)."
  created: '2010-04-12 00:30:39'
- author:
    name: Evie
  body: "@riccardo\r\n\r\nwhats actually the big difference between LZW and JPEG or
    reason as to why take LZW. When choosing LZW, do i select \"interleaved (rgbrgb)\"
    or \"per channel (rrggbb).\r\n\r\nthere's lots to know on how to make a good pdf
    for print. "
  created: '2010-04-12 01:24:25'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "LZW is lossless.\r\nUse the default."
  created: '2010-04-12 01:31:07'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: 'Ah, and another thing: is your brochure spiral-bounded? Because if not, you
    will have to have pages in a multiple of 4. Therefore you cannot have 10 pages,
    but 8 or 12. The reason is simple: if you make let''s say - an A5 brochure, you
    will have series of A4 printed sheets which will be folded in half. Such an A4
    sheet will contain 4 pages.'
  created: '2010-04-12 08:12:58'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: 'klickverbot (about the erratic results): CMYK has a lower range of colors
    than RGB mode. If, for example, you have a picture with sea water in very bright
    blue hues in RGB mode, when converting it to CMYK you may find that a lot of the
    details (such as water ripples) are lost. So you have to color balance and tweak
    the curves/levels of the image to get some of the detail back. Therefore, it''s
    better to convert it yourself to CMYK and see more or less how it will look on
    the printed page and make final adjustments, rather than letting InDesign deal
    with the conversion.'
  created: '2010-04-12 10:25:47'
- author:
    name: klickverbot
  body: "@Boros: Ah, okay. I just used the soft proof feature of Photoshop/InDesign
    for that. The photo guys (most of my DTP work was related to school projects)
    could work in their familiar RGB space \u2013 most of them didn't know what a
    color space is in the first place, but that's an entirely different story \u2013,
    and I just had to \xBBUpdate Link\xAB instead of converting modified images again
    (I guess most student papers are vastly different from professional publications
    workflow-wise).\r\n\r\nAnd because most of the pictures were in large-gamut 16bit
    RGB (at least all of the critical, i.e. very saturated, ones), there weren't any
    color clipping problems either."
  created: '2010-04-12 12:12:47'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-12 15:01:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> lots of times my pictures don't look sharp \r\n\r\nEvie, lots of good advice
    has been given, but I just want to emphasize that if you're making a high-quality
    PDF and yet the pictures still look fuzzy or pixelated, then you probably need
    to start with higher-quality original photos, or else print them in smaller sizes.
    \ \r\n\r\nAs a simple test, take a photo that's been looking pixelated and try
    printing it in several different sizes, and you'll probably see it looks sharper
    when smaller. \r\n\r\nOther factors (like paper, PDF settings, etc. ) will obvious
    affect results too, but even if those are optimal there are still limits to how
    big you can make a particular photo before it starts looking fuzzy.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-13 06:29:20'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "You are pretty safe when you always make your images 300dpi. When you have
    an image open in Photoshop, set to 300dpi, you can see what the printing size
    is by going to Image -> Image size -> Document size - the values you see there
    is the size it will be.\r\n\r\nIf you increase the resolution from 72dpi/150dpi
    to 300dpi via Image -> Image size -> Resolution, make sure 'Resample Image' is
    <em>unticked</em> before pressing ok. This will keep the pixel dimensions unchanged,
    and only adjust the printing size.\r\n\r\nAfter that, when you place the image
    in InDesign, you can see its effective resolution by opening the Info Palette
    and selecting the photo. There you will see 'Actual ppi', which will be 300dpi,
    and 'Effective ppi', which will also be 300dpi if you do not resize the image.
    If you make the image larger in InDesign, the Effective ppi will show a lower
    value, if you make it smaller the value will rise. With a good image, you can
    usually safely increase in size until the Effective ppi rises to about 240ppi.
    Sizing up until its 150ppi is the max, after that the image will very noticeably
    degrade in quality.\r\n\r\nTo make a good printable PDF, you go to File -> Export
    -> and choose pdf and give it a name -> there you can choose an Adobe PDF Preset
    from the drop down menu, for example 'Press Quality'. If you want easy results,
    you can then pick 'PDF/X-1a:2001' from the Standard drop down menu. Of course,
    you can also set everything manually (for example if you want crop-marks and such).\r\n\r\nHowever,
    you'll also want to set the color management options to both InDesign and Photoshop
    to the same settings. You can do this manually, or with Bridge. RGB to Adobe RGB
    (1998), and CMYK to whatever default CMYK profile is generally used in your area/country.
    Choosing 'PDF/X-a1:2001' as PDF preset, no color profile will be included. If
    you want one to be included, change it manually in the PDF export settings."
  created: '2010-04-13 17:07:48'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "Couldn't help but notice that you said you're working on a \"10-page booklet.\"
    If you're making a booklet (unless it will be perfect bound or ring-bound), it
    needs to have pages divisible by four. Why? Usually a booklet is made of multiple
    nested folded sheets of paper. Take a piece of paper, fold it in half, count your
    panels: four.\r\n\r\nHope this alleviates any printer headaches!\r\n\r\nGood luck
    with your project."
  created: '2010-04-14 03:33:12'
- author:
    name: Boros
    picture: 115991
  body: My point exaclty ^
  created: '2010-04-14 13:08:03'
- author:
    name: Stickley
    picture: 117189
  body: "A related question I've had for a while: I understand printers are also moving
    over to RIPs that take RGB source files and print them CMYK. The whole file is
    set up as RGB, all parts. They won't take CMYK files.\r\n\r\nThis leaves me baffled
    as to how are blacks handled (or 100% C, M, or Y). 100% K doesn't exist in RGB
    accurately when converted to CMYK.\r\n\r\n100K is 35R 31G 32B; input 35 31 32
    as your RGB values and you get 70C 68M 64Y 74K (in Photoshop, 70C 70M 64Y 78K
    in InDesign for example). \r\n\r\nHow does the RIP know what % K to use? 70C 68M
    64Y 74K is heavier than a rich-black, wouldn't that pose a problem for making
    a mess on the press with too much ink, or registration issues? Or if you just
    want 100K black text? I think the RIP is supposed to know what to do with text
    as a font, but what if your text isn't embedded as a font, just an outline? Or
    you want a 100K black box?\r\n\r\nCurious..."
  created: '2010-04-15 04:47:00'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Where did you hear that printers are moving to RIPs that take RGB? I think
    that is very unlikely, as a color-calibrated workflow would become impossible.
  created: '2010-04-15 16:18:53'
- author:
    name: Stickley
    picture: 117189
  body: "It sounds like heresy/lunacy to me too - I don't understand how the conversion
    process works either, the numbers just don't match in my tests, so clearly I'm
    missing some information. \r\n\r\nThere is a local printer (of photography and
    books) whose uses an HP Indigo Digital Press that takes only RGB sources to print
    CMYK; also, my wife works in publishing and some of her printers are talking about
    asking for sources to be delivered this way, so I've been left wondering what
    is happening to get the numbers/colors to match correctly on the fly at printing
    time.\r\n\r\nAnyone have any other info about this?\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-15 18:52:16'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: The RIP might have an internal conversion table, and thus produce the highest
    possible quality conversion, given that they know what paper it's being print
    on, with what dot density, and how much *exactly* their ink (toner?) deviates
    from ideally colored Cs, Ms, Ys, and Ks. That combination is hard to beat by general
    conversion profiles.
  created: '2010-04-15 22:22:04'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "Working in RGB is still going to be problematic, even if the RIP makes the
    highest possible quality conversion, as the CMYK color range remains much smaller
    than RGB. So you will have this funky orange in a RGB file, which will then come
    out like a murky brown orange regardless of the conversion quality.\r\n\r\nI'd
    say a color-calibrated workflow is still a much better way to obtain optimal CMYK
    reproduction. Especially since it will be wysiwyg, as you're working in the limited
    color range all the time."
  created: '2010-04-15 23:24:57'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "The final output from sending RGB to your average printer would be terrible.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, it is good if you can get print profiles from your printer, along
    with some idea of how much sharpening works best with their press and paper.\r\n\r\nTo
    the original poster:\r\nI have found this book quite handy for questions about
    production:\r\nMastering InDesign CS3 for Print Design and Production\r\nhttp://ca.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470114568.html\r\n\r\nIt's
    for CS3, but everything still applies. It also has good notes if you are in the
    unfortunate situation of having to use inCopy with a remote editor."
  created: '2010-04-16 02:43:39'
date: '2010-04-11 18:06:07'
node_type: forum
title: images for print (indesign)...

---
