---
author:
  name: omar
body: "Adobe has released its creative suite 5 today, as for me I'll be playing around
  with my good ol' CS3\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/nl/products/creativesuite/?sdid=GLWRJ&"
comments:
- author:
    name: Northbay
    picture: 111583
  body: "Participate in the online launch here:\r\nhttp://cs5launch.adobe.com/?promoid=FDKBR"
  created: '2010-04-12 14:16:38'
- author:
    name: pw
    picture: 118352
  body: Anyone heard anything about which fonts that are included in CS5?
  created: '2010-04-12 14:43:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I will give Adobe credit; the new features in CS5 are far more exciting than
    CS4. But not compelling enough to justify those high upgrade costs. If they want
    to keep releasing software at this pace the upgrade prices need to come down and
    they need to stop bundling junk like Bridge and Acrobat into the suites!
  created: '2010-04-12 15:21:53'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nThat's the thing about the Suite- it covers so many different
    workflows, and not all of them will be relevant to you.\r\nI use Since CS3 I use
    bridge constantly for organizing and adding metadata to my resources.\r\nAcrobat
    too. Nearly every project I work on, I rely on Acrobat for communicating with
    clients and off-site co-workers.\r\nOn the other hand, I've never even opened
    up Fireworks."
  created: '2010-04-12 16:10:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Any reports on new typographic features, other than the column-splitting
    paragraphs? Em-based linespacing? <a href=http://typophile.com/node/62693>Contextual
    paragraph styles</a>? Glyph palette in Photoshop? Maybe even a consistent set
    of palettes / controls across all apps?\r\n\r\nI didn't see anything right away
    featured on the Adobe site, but I admittedly didn't look very hard."
  created: '2010-04-12 17:12:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>That's the thing about the Suite- it covers so many different workflows,
    and not all of them will be relevant to you.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is 2010. We have
    digital distribution channels. Adobe should be utilizing all that awesome technology
    to let me cook up a downloadable suite that\u2019s relevant to my workflow. Especially
    if they want me to upgrade every other year (which comes with costs that go beyond
    the software itself)."
  created: '2010-04-12 17:22:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Unless the UI features a bit red "LAZY" button, I''m not interested in upgrading.
    :-) '
  created: '2010-04-12 17:34:06'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: I'm interested in typographical features, too -- in fact I asked that question
    when InDesign CS4 was coming out. Back then, a few people from Adobe were willing
    and able to provide, I hope this time, too.
  created: '2010-04-12 19:51:59'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>This is 2010. We have digital distribution channels. Adobe should be
    utilizing all that awesome technology to let me cook up a downloadable suite that\u2019s
    relevant to my workflow.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's an excellent suggestion, James.
    InDesign is built around a 'system kernel', and almost everything else you see
    -- interface, mouse handling, panels, text flow, import and export caps -- is
    handled by a separate plugin.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if it's possible at present
    to simply <em>remove</em> any plugin whose features you don't need -- perhaps
    the program won't start, or crash -- but surely they could have the start-up be
    a bit more intelligent and \"use\" only the plugins you require -- and <strong>bought</strong>:\r\n\r\n\"Can
    I order one ID, bookies suite -- hold the Flash Export and Animation Timeline.\""
  created: '2010-04-12 20:23:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "For what it's worth, there's a pretty in-depth <a href=http://www.printmag.com/Article/Everything-You-Need-To-Know-About-Adobe-Creative-Suite-5>review</a>
    on the Print blog.\r\n\r\nThey mention Flash's new type rendering engine that
    can handle OpenType layout, but there doesn't seem to be much new in the way of
    improvements for typography otherwise.\r\n\r\nHopefully more encouraging reports
    will come out over the following weeks. I'm growing tired of superfluous new features,
    like the the fact that \"you can now manage .MP3 files in InDesign\"."
  created: '2010-04-12 20:28:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Ha! Good one! MP3s in InDesign. ;o)\r\n\r\nOh...wait...that *is* a new feature.
    \r\n\r\nUmm, yea, that sounds like scraping the barrel of New Feature Bullet Points.
    \r\n\r\nI don't think I want MP3s in my InDesign!"
  created: '2010-04-12 21:50:01'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Umm, yea, that sounds like scraping the barrel of New Feature Bullet
    Points.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe sound/interactive/etc. features in Indesign could be
    quite cool. I could actually enjoy doing layout for interactive digital magazines
    for tablets if I didn\u2019t have to deal with the Flash interface, actionscript,
    etc. But this all depends on PC makers finally getting it together in the tablet
    space, and right now we have something like ten years of evidence to suggest that
    they haven\u2019t got a clue how to pull off a usable tablet. If the PC makers
    can\u2019t keep Flash relevant it won\u2019t matter, because something else we
    have pretty clear evidence of is that Adobe\u2019s executives don\u2019t know
    how to beat Steve Jobs in a software war. I won\u2019t be at all surprised if
    the feature set for Indesign CS6 revolves around building that stuff for HTML5/CSS3."
  created: '2010-04-12 22:26:39'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "MP3s? Sure -- but only if you can print them in a high enough quality for
    offset printing. It won't work on your laser printer.\r\n\r\nOh wait -- they must
    have read on Typophile about that Sound Font that was made from sound waves! (Can't
    locate it anymore -- sorry.)"
  created: '2010-04-12 22:33:04'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "I <em>just</em> upgraded to CS4 in July.\r\nI'm holding out until I know
    if there is a nifty new pro opticals font, and if there is a registration incentive
    font.\r\nFingers crossed for Hypatia Sans."
  created: '2010-04-13 00:42:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Surely, ID CS5 is lacking some important and much needed improvements, as
    endnotes, better footnotes, named stylistic sets, sidebar texts \u2013to name
    a few. But the animation features are very interesting \u2013and <strong>not</strong>
    just for tablets.\r\n\r\nI can remember a dozen newspapers and publications which
    went online with page transitions after ID CS4 included this feature. A small
    newspaper from a small city in my country used this and increased its ad income
    (as any ad also gets web dissemination).\r\n\r\nNow, it's possible to build whole
    web articles inside ID, including zoomed in/out photos and captures. I consider
    this extremely useful for instructional and technical materials. And the SWFs
    maintain high typographical quality.\r\n\r\nAn example: I know two printed technical
    reviews with huge financial problems. They would like to go online and survive.
    But to publish PDFs on the web causes some problems: it's less atractive to most
    people, the Reader bars takes part of browser view and a PDF could be shared easily,
    makng piracy very easy. To publish through SWF in an subscription-based site is
    a great idea to them.\r\n\r\nBesides the animation features, the span/split columns
    is really great. And the vertically justified text in non-rectangular frames is
    also very welcome. For me, it's a well worth upgrade, although Adobe's prices
    are intimidating."
  created: '2010-04-13 02:10:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Aaron, will you buy my fonts if I throw in a Th lig?
  created: '2010-04-13 02:10:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: How about if I also include a free page layout application?
  created: '2010-04-13 02:17:49'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "The \"Th\" lig is not a deal-breaker, and at least once a month I gaze longingly
    at Paradigm Pro..I could just spend that $600 on other fonts...\r\n\r\nFirst things
    first: I must get $600."
  created: '2010-04-13 02:34:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'This is interesting: Wired is reporting that CS5 has some capability to convert
    Flash animations to canvas elements. Way cool.'
  created: '2010-04-13 04:40:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "My biggest complaint is that we get new, expensive releases of InDesign,
    but old bugs remain. There are bugs we reported -- and were acknowledged -- with
    CS2, particularly the dictionary -- that are still present in CS4. Hyphenation,
    after all, is one part of H&J, and good H&J is pretty basic to any layout program.\r\n\r\n<cite>I'm
    not sure if it's possible at present to simply remove any plugin whose features
    you don't need -- perhaps the program won't start, or crash</cite> Yup. Crash
    to the point where you have to reinstall the program. I'll grant that it is a
    chore to test the program with the various operating systems, but Jeez, that's
    a part of selling software.\r\n\r\nYou aren't supposed to use obscenities. Should
    I say I'm miffed? & I'll allow I'm being a curmudgeon, but aren't bug-fixes to
    basic functions more important than new features?"
  created: '2010-04-13 13:45:24'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  old bugs remain...particularly the dictionary\r\n\r\nJust curious, what
    dictionary bugs are you referring to?"
  created: '2010-04-13 14:29:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Should I say I'm miffed? & I'll allow I'm being a curmudgeon, but aren't
    bug-fixes to basic functions more important than new features?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    and from what I can tell, improving the functionality of existing features that
    barely work isn\u2019t, either. How cool would it be if the optical margin feature
    actually offered some options to make it usable with the vast majority of type
    that look like crap when A and T start hanging out into the margin?"
  created: '2010-04-13 14:56:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\" but aren't bug-fixes to basic functions more important than new features?\"\r\n\r\nThey
    are more important to consumers. Not at all important to Adobe's marketing department. "
  created: '2010-04-13 15:09:41'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"How cool would it be if the optical margin feature actually offered
    some options to make it usable with the vast majority of type that look like crap
    when A and T start hanging out into the margin?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAmen.\r\nThings
    like this to me would be infinitely more interesting than the vast majority of
    the \"new\" and \"hot\" and \"exciting\" stuff they've been adding. The hype is
    so tiring."
  created: '2010-04-13 15:20:58'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: It looks like Illustrator has the 'Live Pen'. (They call it Variable Stroke).
    That will be great for drawing glyphs. Or playing around with ideas for scripts.
  created: '2010-04-13 17:07:49'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> aren't bug-fixes to basic functions \r\n> more important than new features?\r\n\r\nI
    once heard the lead programmer for a major application talk about this. He said
    that in a perfect world they'd always fix every bug, but in the real world there's
    always more work to do than time and budgets permit, so everything gets prioritized.
    \r\n\r\nFor some bugs it becomes an equation like \"should we add new feature
    X which will help increase sales, or should we spend that time fixing several
    bugs which are annoying but aren't bad enough to affect sales much?\".  And the
    new feature wins."
  created: '2010-04-13 17:13:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: " \"should we add new feature X which will help increase sales, or should
    we spend that time fixing several bugs which are annoying but aren't bad enough
    to affect sales much?\"\r\n\r\nTo me, they affect purchases by me. Adobe should
    fix the stuff that is really used and forget adding useless bloat--they could
    at least make opentype equally usable in all their so-called \"Suite\"."
  created: '2010-04-13 18:02:46'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026they could at least make opentype equally usable in all their
    so-called \"Suite\".</cite>\r\n\r\nTo make that worthwhile they would actually
    have to evangelize OpenType to the huge number of designers who don\u2019t even
    know what it is. "
  created: '2010-04-13 18:05:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: if you build it, they will come
  created: '2010-04-13 19:58:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Just curious, what dictionary bugs are you referring to?</cite>\r\n\r\nWe've
    reported several over the years. The ones that are currently driving us nuts (who
    knows what tomorrow will bring!) are:\r\n\r\n1. You can't directly enter a word
    with an apostrophe (the PREFERRED apostrophe, U+2019) in the exception dictionary.
    No matter what you do, the apostrophe winds up U+0027. So, when a word with an
    apostrophe (U+2019) is encountered in the text, the word isn't found in the exception
    dictionary, and the basic Proximity UDC patters are followed. You can enter words
    with U+2019 using a script, but what a nuisance!\r\n\r\n2. There is a bug in the
    Paragraph > Hyphenation panel when you use the document dictionary. Specifically,
    you have to say \"3\" in the \"After First\" box, to get ID to allow a hyphen
    after 2 letters. The inverse for the \"Before Last.\" If you want to require three
    letters to come down, you have have to enter a \"2\". That is, to require two
    letters to remain on a line and three letters to come down, the First/Last setting
    has to be 3/2. BUT: Should you encounter a word not in the document dictionary,
    ID revers to the Proximity UDC dictionary, which does honor exactly what is in
    the Paragraph>Hyphenation setting. So, if you don't have \"because\" in your document
    dictionary, and if you set the Hyphenation panel for 3/2, \"because\" won't be
    hyphenated.\r\n\r\nEtc. Discovering bugs is no fun, documenting them to report
    them even less fun -- esp. when they are never fixed!"
  created: '2010-04-13 21:10:00'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nI'm using ID since version 1.0 (both English and Portuguese
    versions, always on Windows) and these bugs you described never occurred with
    me.\r\n\r\nID accepts and differentiates apostrophe (U0027) and single right quote
    (U2019) in the Ignored Words option without any problem. And in Portuguese we
    use justified text with hyphenation most of the time, and ID always did exactly
    what I set up in Hyphenation settings.\r\n\r\nI did capture the screens:\r\n\r\nDictionary
    > Ignored Words\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IgnoreWords_5924.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\nHyphenation
    options for a paragraph\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hyphen_6192.gif]\r\n\r\n.\r\nI
    thought this would be a problem related to another language version of ID, but
    for CS4 this is hardly true as any ID installation has <em>all language versions</em>
    internally included (you can change the UI language simply editing a Windows registry
    line).\r\n\r\nMaybe this would be a Mac-only issue?"
  created: '2010-04-13 23:33:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Igor, it is possibler that everything works with the Mac -- we've been using
    Windows since CS2 (Windows XP & now Vista). We have had trouble with hyphenation
    all along. Some of it was due to our utilities, but some was Adobe bugs, written
    up, submitted, and acknowledged. With possessives I don't have an example at hand,
    but it does happened. Still, with your input, I will check again tomorrow to see
    if we can get a word with U+2019, entered by hand, in the exception dictionary\r\n\r\nAs
    to the number of hyphens -- are you using the document dictionary (one that is
    embedded in the file), or just the Proximity UDC? It is only when both are at
    play that the conflict rears it's head, though the \"lie\" is always needed with
    the document dictionary.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nWith CS2, we used to change the UDC
    with every job. It was a pain, but it did work. We extracted every word over five
    letters in a book's text, hyphenated them to taste, put them in the exception
    dictionary, then wrote off a new UDC. With that system, we could usually tell
    when ID went to the basic Proximity patterns. The downside was that if you forgot
    to install the different UDC's with their proper job, and if any recomposing occurred
    with another job's dictionary, you obviously got errors. Another downside was
    you couldn't give the files to anyone else -- say, the publisher -- because the
    hyphenation was dependent on that UDC. You could give them that too, but good
    luck teaching them how to install it. Use of a document dictionary solves this
    problem."
  created: '2010-04-14 02:18:05'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Your enviroment is distinct than mine. I never use embedded dictionaries
    because I'm always adding words to my UDCs \u2013so the embedded one becomes outdated
    very quickly and may conflict with the UDC when there are words with different
    hyphenations in each one.\r\n\r\nSurely, to get the UDC installed in third-party
    IDs would be a problem. Maybe you can create a simple batch (DOS) to copy the
    UDC file directly to the proper ID folder. It will not work if the user installs
    ID in a different path, but this is unusual. Another possibility is to send the
    UDC in a txt file and instruct the user to import it (CS3+ feature).\r\n\r\nAlthough
    these ways will demand a user procedure, both are easier than manually copy the
    UDC files.\r\n\r\nWhy do you produce a new UDC for each job? There are different
    hyphenation criteria to each one?  \r\n\r\nI input the apostrophe through the
    keyboard and the single right quote with Alt+code."
  created: '2010-04-14 02:55:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I input the apostrophe through the keyboard and the single right quote
    with Alt+code.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, this has always worked fine AS LONG AS you're
    working with the UDC. It is the *document dictionary* that changes 2019 to 0027.
    In fact, you can enter 2019 in a target word, when you hit \"ADD,\" nothing happens.
    But if you close the panel, then open it back up, the word is there, but with
    0027. Again, document dictionary exceptions only, sorry I was unclear.\r\n\r\nAs
    to simply using only the UDC instead of the document dictionary, we have what
    we feel valid reasons for using the document dictionary. But it is buggy."
  created: '2010-04-14 20:48:41'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "As far as PC's having usable, wanted tablets--\r\n\r\nI was actually much
    more excited when I came across this...:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.techeblog.com/index.php/tech-gadget/microsoft-courier-tablet-pictures-and-video-leaked\r\n\r\n...than
    I am about the iPad. "
  created: '2010-04-14 22:15:03'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: ">   I was actually much more excited when I came across this..\r\n>   ...than
    I am about the iPad.\r\n\r\nexcept things have to be _real_ for me to get excited
    by them.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-15 03:08:22'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "That's neither here nor there...who knows. I don't, you don't.\r\n\r\nBut
    you don't get excited by concepts???????"
  created: '2010-04-15 04:36:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>But you don't get excited by concepts???????</cite>\r\n\r\nNot Microsoft\u2019s
    concepts. They\u2019ve had a lot of interesting concepts over the years that have
    been big disappointments. Tablet PCs, Cleartype, Windows Vista, Windows for Smartphones,
    the Zune, I could go on. I would love to see Microsoft develop really great tablet
    hardware/OS to compete with Steve Job\u2019s walled garden approach, but experience
    suggests holding my breath waiting would be deadly."
  created: '2010-04-15 05:21:25'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "evanbrog said:\r\n>   That's neither here nor there...who knows. I don't,
    you don't.\r\n\r\ni _know_ that that's just a little video.  it _looks_ interesting,\r\nat
    least it _would_, if it were a _reality_, but it's just a video.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  But you don't get excited by concepts???????\r\n\r\nconcepts are very cool,
    yes...  and even videos are cool...\r\nas videos.  so yes, that was a cool video.
    \ as a tool demo.\r\n\r\nbut that tool doesn't exist right now.  it might never
    exist.\r\n\r\nyet you're comparing it to the ipad, which _does_ exist...\r\nright
    now.  and is available for sale, right down the street.\r\n\r\nmoreover, if the
    tool shown in that video ever _does_ come\r\nto exist, it will probably have lots
    and lots of offsetting flaws\r\n-- because microsoft's products usually have lots
    of flaws --\r\nwhich were not even _hinted_ at in that clever little video...\r\n\r\nso
    no, i don't get excited by \"videos\", or even \"concepts\",\r\nwhen they are
    being compared to a real, existing product.\r\nthere is no comparison between
    a video and a real product.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-15 23:13:10'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "That may all be true. I'm not starting a PC-MAC battle!!!\r\n\r\nThere's
    no reason it can't be done better than what Apple just did. Obv. the real thing
    is better..in philosophy, the old \"the thing than which there can be no greater,\"
    was the thing that actually existed.\r\n\r\nI wont be getting an iPad anytime
    soon. But maybe I would consider something that used the stylus over the finger
    (that strikes the right cord for me as a creative). It would also be really interesting
    to see hand-writing recognition being translated in real-time into existing fonts.
    \r\n\r\nThat probably exists somewhere--anyone ever seen that? I imagine the experience
    of <em>writing</em> Frutiger (or any favorite font) would be such a great way
    to enjoy typography."
  created: '2010-04-16 02:18:40'
- author:
    name: darkwolf29a1
    picture: 119576
  body: "There have been a few nice features that I have seen for CS5. I am not sure
    that I would want to pay full price for them though. My only advantage there is
    that I do get the educational discount.\r\n\r\nAs for the whole tablet/PC/Mac
    thing... I own two Macs (Desktop and laptop) and as sooon as I can afford to upgrade
    my current one (3 years old) to a new desktop....I will. Why? Honestly, I have
    had WAY less problems with my Mac than I have ever had with a PC. I had enough
    issues that they forced me to buy a Mac, really. And now that I made that transition...I
    don't ever want to go back. Will I buy an iPad? Not likely. At least not until
    they make it function more like a laptop computer, i.e. I can install CS5 on it.
    :) Until then...it's just a big iPhone that I can't make phone calls on. LOL"
  created: '2010-04-16 18:42:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I do every other upgrade, it keeps the costs more manageable. \r\n\r\nOh
    and agree totally on the iPad. I am sure if I had one I'd find uses for it but
    I absolutely cannot justify spending the money. I also need to replace my iMac
    (it's pre-intel, the clock ticks) and upgrade CS."
  created: '2010-04-17 05:16:19'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "microsoft announced today the cancellation of the \"courier\",\r\ntheir version
    of a tablet that they'd never actually promised.\r\n\r\nit's hard to even get
    up any juice saying \"i told you so\"\r\nwhen it comes to microsoft failing to
    live up to things.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-30 09:55:34'
date: '2010-04-12 11:37:12'
title: to whom it may concern....CS5 released

---
