---
author:
  name: Tim Ahrens
  picture: 109692
body: "I would like to examine the instructions of some TrueType fonts in FontLab
  in order to learn from it.\r\n\r\nThe FL manual shows this example:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FL-hinting_5165.png]\r\n
  \r\n&nbsp; \r\nWhat do I have to do to see the TT hints like this? It doesn't work
  for me."
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Open the Program Panel from the popup when in TT hinting mode in the Glyph
    window:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/programpanel_5865.jpg]"
  created: '2010-04-16 13:56:10'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: The Program panel is also empty when I open a TTF. I opened times.ttf and
    expected to see something like in the above image but there is absolutely no TT
    hinting there at all.
  created: '2010-04-16 14:09:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Hmm. I guess the Program Panel only shows you the instructions that you create
    in FontLab (in the VFB). Perhaps it can't show you what's in an already-generated
    TTF.
  created: '2010-04-16 15:36:27'
- author:
    name: eigi
    picture: 111862
  body: "Hello Tim,\r\n\r\nFontLab can't decompile TT instructions from generated
    TTF fonts. If you do TrueType hinting in FontLab you destroy the existing (binary)
    instructions. If you want to see something like the picture above you have to
    apply (PostScript) autohinting and convert this to TT instructions.\r\n\r\nThe
    kind of TT instructions is indicated as icon in the font window. If you see a
    blue 'T' in the lower left corner you have binary instructions which can't be
    edited. A yellow 'T' indicates visible and editable TT instructions.\r\n\r\nEigi"
  created: '2010-04-16 15:36:51'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: track
  created: '2010-04-16 15:57:06'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "Let me add to what Eigi wrote that there are probably two reasons why existing
    TT instructions cannot be imported and edited in FLS:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>FontLab
    Studio supports only a subset of the TT instruction set</li>\r\n<li>It's not trivial
    (or possible at all) to decompile TT instruction programs and find out which value,
    e.g. in the cvt table, stands for what, because it's all just numbers ;)</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nYou
    can however decompile TT instructions using ttx on a font, but then you would
    see the raw instruction code and not a visual representation like in FLS."
  created: '2010-04-16 16:01:16'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for your help, Eigi.\r\n\r\nThis means that the manual is rather misleading
    there \u2013 to me, the image suggests that this is the original hinting in the
    official Times TTF and that you just need to open it so see the hinting."
  created: '2010-04-16 16:02:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...this is the original hinting in the official Times TTF...\r\n\r\nThat
    would be 20 year-old hinting.\r\n\r\n>...it's all just numbers\r\n\r\nTrue, but
    there is no choice in a binary program;) \r\n\r\nThe tricks are really to know
    first how the tables interact, technically, that you are looking at a well-maintained
    graphics state and a good stack of glyph instructions, and finally knowing what
    the instructions are trying generally to do typographically. That helps a lot
    to make the numbers go away.\r\n\r\nYou can decompile TT and find out which value,
    e.g. in the cvt table, stands for what, if you have a font that you know works,
    as opposed perhaps to absolutely, like if you gave it garbage to figure out.\r\n\r\nCheers!
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-16 20:53:42'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "> That would be 20 year-old hinting.\r\n\r\nIsn't that roughly when the manual
    was written?"
  created: '2010-04-16 22:11:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Isn't that roughly when the manual was written?\r\n\r\nActually if you only
    need Y hints, that's fine. What manual?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-16 22:58:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The visual TrueType instructions in FontLab Studio (or VTT) are kind of like
    source code, while the binary TrueType instructions in a TTF font are, well, like
    binary code. You can decompile the binary into assembly code (e.g. using TTX)
    but it's not at all trivial to decompile into the visual source code, especially
    since the source code in FontLab Studio provides a particular set of functions
    that does not necessarily represent all of situations that you can code using
    the TrueType assembly. \r\n\r\nUnlike, say, the syntax that is used in OpenType
    Layout tables (GPOS, GSUB) -- which is a very simple language and is actually
    more like data than like programming code -- the TrueType assembly language is
    a real programming language in which, for example, you have GOTO-like jumps. \r\n\r\nFontForge
    has a TrueType instruction debugger that lets you step through the native TrueType
    instructions and watch how the outline gets modified by the TT instruction code. "
  created: '2010-04-17 03:34:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "\r\n@twardoch\r\n<em>FontForge has a TrueType instruction debugger that lets
    you step through the native TrueType instructions and watch how the outline gets
    modified by the TT instruction code.</em>\r\n\r\nMeaning that I <strong>can</strong>,
    in FontForge, manipulate and edit the existing TT instruction code?"
  created: '2010-04-18 14:28:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "If you look at the <a href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/charview.html#Debugging\"><strong>relevant
    Fontforge Doc</strong></a>, on top of the question whether you can, it appears
    there is also the question whether you <strong>may</strong>. \r\n\r\nEdit ...
    or may have a version of FontForge that can (?)"
  created: '2010-04-18 15:21:42'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Looks like you are able to edit...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hint2_3967.png]\r\nI
    don't know what and how to change, so can't help.\r\nEdit: I am not living in
    the US, Canada, France, the UK, Germany and Japan"
  created: '2010-04-18 23:14:39'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "According to the <a href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/pfaeditchangelog.html\"><strong>PfaEdit
    \ (prececessor to FontForge) changelog file</strong></a> (with date 10-Mar-2003),
    the TrueType instruction debugger is actually an interface to the FreeType truetype
    bytecode interpreter. To have access to the debugger, you need to compile FreeType
    with the byte code interpreter enabled. That would infringe patents in the US,
    Canada, France, the UK, Germany and Japan as described in this link of the FreeType
    project: <a href=\"http://freetype.sourceforge.net/patents.html\"><strong>FreeType
    &amp; Patents</strong></a>. Here is an extract:\r\n\r\n<cite>However, the source
    code for the bytecode interpreter is still available and can be toggled on at
    compile time, for those that want to use it anyway (because they purchased a license
    from Apple, or because they are in a country where the patents do not apply, etc.).
    For details please check the documentation that comes with your FreeType source
    package (it normally involves changing one configuration macro).</cite>\r\n[...]\r\n<cite>Licensing:\r\nIn
    the case where you need a patent license from Apple, please contact directly their
    <a href=\"mailto:iplaw@apple.com\"><strong>legal department</strong></a>. We are
    unable to give you any pricing information, so please do not ask us about it.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nMichel\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-18 23:16:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...on top of the question whether you can, it appears there is also the
    question whether you may.\r\n\r\nAcademic myth. \r\n\r\nProfessionally, I have
    never licensed anything from Apple and I've written any kind of instruction for
    anyone I've wanted, and that situation just turned 21.  \r\n\r\nThis does not
    mean I can understand what Fontforge of Fontlab write, but that's another issue.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-19 13:00:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@janekz, boyer, and db:\r\n\r\nThanks. I've always been a Windows user, but
    I'm buying a Mac in a week and I want to install FontForge - I'm assuming I won't
    have to jump through as many hoops as in Windows.\r\nDo I have that one right?
    Or do I have to set up a Linux box for this?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-19 14:27:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Note that while FontForge gives you a visual representation of what's happening
    due to hinting, it is still decompiling into assembly code. Those MIRPs and MDAPs
    are the native TrueType instructions.\r\n\r\nOf the people in the world who do
    serious, high-end TrueType hinting, I'll bet less than 10% are at all fluent in
    TT assembly code. Sure, folks like Rickner or Bosma are, but most... not so much.\r\n\r\nI
    would expect that learning TT assembly code is likely easier if one starts with
    a tool that works in a higher-level language, and compiles that to TT assembly
    which you can then inspect. Microsoft's Visual TrueType, for example, will show
    you those MIRPs and MDAPs, but allows you to work at a higher level as well. Maybe
    it's because I already know a couple of higher-level TT hinting tools, but it
    seems to me that would be a much easier approach to learning the low level stuff.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-19 16:21:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I have never licensed anything from Apple and I've written any
    kind of instruction for anyone I've wanted</em>\r\n\r\nBut, as far as I know,
    you have not written a TrueType rasteriser. As I understand it, the concern about
    the Apple patents relates to the FreeType rasteriser, not to fonts."
  created: '2010-04-19 17:00:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> But, as far as I know, you have not written a TrueType rasteriser.
    . . \r\n\r\nThere are no patents or legal issues stopping me from writing a TrueType
    rasteriser, which I'm not saying I've done or not done. \r\n\r\nRich> I'm assuming
    I won't have to jump through as many hoops as in Windows.\r\n\r\nNo, you just
    plug in the Mac and everything works fine, you don't need glasses anymore, and
    if you couldn't walk you can now. \r\n\r\nDon't spill any water on the keyboard
    though unless you like wine. \r\n\r\nThomas> Of the people in the world who do
    serious, high-end TrueType hinting, I'll bet less than 10%...\r\n\r\nYou're getting
    into population too small to divide like that, or are there more than 10 now?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-19 21:08:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, I'm basing my comments on the statements made by the FreeType developers
    <a href="http://www.freetype.org/patents.html">here</a>. FreeType 1 implemented
    a full set of hint interpretation routines. FreeType was then contacted by Apple's
    legal department and informed of some patents relating to specific hint types.
    FreeType 2 disabled support for interpretation of these hints (not all hints,
    just a subset).
  created: '2010-04-20 03:33:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Ring around the rosie\r\nA pocket full of posie\r\nAshes, Ashes\r\nWe all
    fall down."
  created: '2010-04-20 03:56:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "The TT instructions you are looking at is just like a stack crawl. \r\n\r\nThe
    numbers you see are the point numbers, cvts, or other numeric values that are
    pushed onto the stack first then what follows are the instructions that use (or
    pop) these values. The MDAP is what is commonly called an Anchor and the MIRP
    is what could be called a link. \r\n\r\n\r\nIf the MDAP is the first instruction
    that pops values it will take the first value (which is probably a 1 for 'round
    the value'). It also pops the next value which will be the outline point number.
    It does not push anything back on the stack so the third value is now at the top
    of the stack.\r\n\r\nThe TrueType specification (originally from Apple) explains
    what each instructions does and what the Boolean values are for. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-20 11:16:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John Hudson, \r\n\r\nI have read Freetype's wail several times now. It says
    incorrectly among many misrepresentations, \"It is important to understand that
    the patents do not prevent anyone from reading, converting or generating TrueType
    fonts. <strong>As they only concern the subtle art of hinting TrueType glyphs.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I said: Academic myth. Professionally, I have never licensed anything from Apple
    and I've written any kind of instruction for anyone I've wanted, and that situation
    just turned 21.\r\n\r\nThen you said: \"As I understand it, the concern about
    the Apple patents relates to the FreeType rasteriser, not to fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThen
    I said: \"There are no patents or legal issues stopping me from writing a TrueType
    rasteriser, which I'm not saying I've done or not done.\"\r\n\r\nThen you pointed
    back to the BS myth making at Freetype. \r\n\r\nThere, the image of the ugly diagonals
    in a font hinted by mistake, according to legend, gets trotted out to scare the
    bejeezus out of anyone wanting to make web fonts that swing. It's myth. \r\n\r\nThen
    TerminalDesign came and sang the plague song. Then Vinnie came to save us all
    from darkness.\r\n\r\nAnd now the future happened.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-20 12:47:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: So the FreeType folk were not contacted by Apple's legal department? Somehow
    they autogenerated a myth that then compelled them to disable features of their
    own software? Weird.
  created: '2010-04-20 18:28:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I had noticed that odd wording on the FreeType side before, and I always
    figured the source of the confusion might be this:\r\n\r\nI wonder if perhaps
    the FreeType folks are using the word \"hinting\" to mean \"rasterization based
    on hint code that is in a font.\" Of course, those of us on the type design side
    use \"hinting\" to mean \"adding hint code to fonts.\"\r\n\r\nPlausible?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-20 19:04:54'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@Richard Fink\r\n\r\nThe Fontforge executable from the <a href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\"><strong>Fontforge
    site</strong></a> installed in seconds on my mini with OS X 10.6 but it is without
    the truetype debugger. \r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.geocities.jp/meir000/fontforge/\"><strong>Unofficial
    FontForge-mingw</strong></a> also installed in seconds on a version of Windows
    without frills (no cygwin, nothing) and <strong>has</strong> the debugger.\r\n\r\nTo
    get a mac version with the debugger, you need to compile from the Fontforge and
    Freetype sources. For the freetype sources, you follow the instructions in the
    file <code>freetype-2.3.12/docs/TRUETYPE</code>, compile and install. Then you
    <a href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/source-build.html\"><strong>build from
    the FontForge sources</strong></a> (better use the --with-freetype-src=dir configure
    option, else configure wastes a lot of time searching for the freetype sources)
    and install. That takes about fifteen minutes, provided pango, cairo etc are already
    installed. So, for someone that just wants to look at the debugger, fontforge-mingw
    looks like the best choice.\r\n\r\nAs for the more general question concerning
    the \"Linux box\", to avoid disturbing too much the mood of this thread I started
    a new one <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/69653\"><strong>here</strong></a>.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-04-20 19:33:10'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "With <a href=\"http://www.macports.org/\"><strong>Macports</strong></a> you
    can install a version of fontforge with the truetype instruction debugger by typing
    the following commands in a terminal window (the % being the prompt, they are
    not part of the command)\r\n\r\n<code>% sudo port install freetype +bytecode\r\n%
    sudo port install fontforge +with_freetype_bytecode</code>\r\n\r\nThe installation
    took about 8 minutes on my MacBook pro since I already have all the libraries
    on which fontforge depends. Else those libraries will be fetched, compiled and
    installed, and  that requires much more time (and patience).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 02:24:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "First and most important \u2014 as it has been pointed out e.g. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/57993\">here
    on Typophile</a> \u2014 the two main Apple patents on TrueType hinting expired
    six months ago. \r\n\r\nThe U.S. patent <a href=\"http://www.google.com/patents/about?id=B58bAAAAEBAJ\"><b>5155805</b></a>
    (\u201CMethod and apparatus for moving control points in displaying digital typeface
    on raster output devices\u201D) was filed on May 8, 1989 and issued on October
    13, 1992, and it expired on October 13, 2009. \r\n\r\nThe U.S. patent <a href=\"http://www.google.com/patents/about?id=lk4hAAAAEBAJ\"><b>5159668</b></a>
    (same title) was filed on May 8, 1989 and issued on October 27, 1992, and it expired
    on October 27, 2009. \r\n\r\nThe U.S. patent <a href=\"http://www.google.com/patents/about?id=rTEhAAAAEBAJ\"><b>5325479</b></a>
    was filed on May 28, 1992 and issued on June 28, 1994. It is likely to expire
    on May 28, 2012. However, this was the second filing of the same patent as 5155805,
    and the first one was granted only after the second filing was done. As far as
    I understand, the term of expiration of the very first (oldest) filing counts.
    \r\n\r\nSo it can be assumed that all the relevant patents have expired now. \r\n\r\nSecond,
    patents typically describe a \u201Cmethod and apparatus for something\u201D. The
    patents in question did not describe a particular arrangement of software programming
    instructions that would be the \u201Cmethod and apparatus\u201D. The patented
    \u201Cmethod and apparatus\u201D was, simply speaking, the TrueType instructions
    programming language (or aspects of how it works). In other words, the interpreter,
    not any particular code that should be interpreted, was patented. \r\n\r\nWriting
    instructions for the interpreter did not infringe the patents. Writing an interpreter
    that would execute those instructions did. \r\n\r\nBut as I said, those patents
    expired now, so the discussion about myths is kind of moot :)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 05:37:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">... so the discussion about myths is kind of moot :)\r\n\r\nOh good, then
    the myths must be lies. John, why is it important to you that the use of Apple
    TrueType hints be legally dangerous for developers?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 12:22:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, it isn't important to me at all. I just like to know what is the case
    of a thing. So when one set of people are saying 'We were contacted by Apple's
    legal department' and as a result of that contact have disabled aspects of their
    own software because of legal concerns about patent licenses, and someone else
    is saying its all a myth/lie, I'd like to know what is the truth of the thing.
    Either the FreeType people are wrong or you are wrong, or you are both in some
    way wrong, but since your statements are incompatible you can't both be right.
    As Adam points out, this is now an historical question, not because \u2018the
    myths must be lies\u2019 but because the patents in question have expired. But
    historical questions are still questions."
  created: '2010-04-21 19:03:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">... the patents in question have expired. \r\n\r\n I though everybody knew
    that. C'mon, your kidding right?\r\n\r\n>FreeType folk ... autogenerated a myth
    that then compelled them to disable features of their own software? Weird.\r\n\r\nThat's
    what I've always thought. Weird with a capitol D. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 19:56:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Of course I knew that the patents had expired. Since I thought the patents
    meant something -- whereas you apparently thought they meant nothing --, I made
    a note of their expiration date.
  created: '2010-04-22 02:54:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">-- whereas you apparently thought they meant nothing --\r\n\r\nYes, for
    21 years, I've not only thought, but acted and documented to others that the patented
    instructions meant nothing. Use absence of this duo was never a problem for any
    user I ever heard of, despite the continued trotting out  the main icon of this
    myth, the same unattributed font that's diagonally challenged without one of the
    patented instructions. The TT hinting language is complete and practical for hinting
    without a license to the once patented duo, and interpreters can skip those instructions
    to this day, if they ever find them, and no one will be the less readable. \r\n\r\nSo
    now that that's solved,) should we go on to the ClearType patents?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-22 23:03:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@michel boyer\r\n\r\nRe: The ins and outs of installing FontForge on various
    platforms\r\nThanks a lot.\r\nDownloaded the unofficial Windows version yesterday
    and today I might actually take a deep breath and click the installation batch
    file today.\r\nOr, I might try installing it on an older XP machine I have in
    a few days. (Just being cautious.)\r\n\r\nThanks again for the explanation. Greatly
    appreciated.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-27 16:00:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "@ Richard Fink\r\n\r\nGreat. I tried the unofficial Windows version under
    VMWare Fusion on a mac and it seemed to work well. Good luck. "
  created: '2010-04-28 00:33:38'
date: '2010-04-16 13:50:04'
title: Showing TTF hinting in FontLab?

---
