---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "I would like to compile a list (perhaps eventually resulting in a wiki) of
  notable efforts in collaborative type design. Team77 comes to mind as a very good
  example. A more contemporary instance would be Majoor and Buivenga.\r\n\r\nThe distribution
  of work can be anything: glyph design versus spacing versus hinting, Latin versus
  Arabic versus Cyrillic, conceptualizing versus sketching versus digitizing, etc.
  However I would like to exclude cases where the collaboration was inescapable -
  for example the yesteryear collaboration between a type designer and a punchcutter.
  I'm looking for cases of collaboration where the typeface <em>could</em> have been
  done by one person, but people elected to collaborate anyway.\r\n\r\nWe can flesh
  the list out with details, but please don't hold back if all you'd like to contribute
  is names (of fonts or people).\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Well, I probably list more than a dozen instances from the Font Bureau bullpen.
    Where do you want to start? \r\n\r\nMiller : Matthew Carter, Tobias Frere-Jones,
    Cyrus Highsmith (maybe others)\r\nPostoni : Matthew Carter, Richard Lipton, Dyana
    Weissman\r\nBenton Sans : Tobias Frere-Jones, Richard Lipton, Cyrus Highsmith,
    Jill Pichotta (maybe others)\r\nFB Californian : David Berlow, Jane Patterson,
    Richard Lipton, Jill Pichotta (Carol Twombly started it)\r\nBureau Grot : David
    Berlow, Jill Pichotta, Christian Schwartz, Richard Lipton (probably others)\r\n\r\n.
    . . Okay, I\u2019m not really going to go for a dozen. You get the idea.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-17 00:50:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'There are now teams: Underware, Type together, Type jockeys. Spiekermann
    always has collaborators, a whole list including Lucas de Groot, and more recently
    Christian Schwartz, Kris Sowersby. Frutiger describes how he had a series of collaborators,
    some of whom became designers in their own right; lately it''s been with Kobayshi.
    Now Frere-Jones and Hoefler collaborate, and they have others helping them. Slimbach
    has a bunch of people at Adobe. Wow, it does go on and on.  '
  created: '2010-04-17 01:51:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A significant number of our non-European types -- Adobe Arabic, Adobe Devanagari,
    Adobe Thai, Vodafone Hindi, to name a few -- are collaborations between Tim Holloway,
    Fiona Ross and me. I try to credit the individual types to represent the balance
    of contribution to the overall design, which doesn't always represent the amount
    of work an individual contributes in terms of kerning, mark positioning, OTL table
    work, etc.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nThere are also, of course, instances of typefaces designed
    by multiple people, sometimes over an extended period of time, that are not the
    product of collaborative effort in the sense that the people worked together."
  created: '2010-04-17 03:14:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Although Robert Slimbach certainly gets production assistance from other
    folks, with the exception of Myriad I think of every typeface bearing his name
    as being a Slimbach design rather than a collaboration (though I don't mean to
    minimize the amount of work involved in production assistance). Though the folks
    doing that work or who have done that work might be even better equipped to comment.\r\n\r\nRobert
    contributed quite a lot to the design of Hypatia Sans, however. Then Paul Hunt
    took over the daily work on the italics when I left Adobe, though I think I had
    established the direction fairly firmly in the first year or so I worked on them
    on and off.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-17 03:42:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great stuff so far - thank you.\r\n\r\nKent, in the case of Font Bureau,
    I assume there's some sort of\r\npattern/hierarchy/method. If so, do you think
    you could elaborate?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-17 04:51:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\nAs someone who's been thinking, lately, about font production
    as a manufacturing process like any other. (Oh, boy, I can hear the guns being
    cocked.)\r\nDo you mind if I ask what the impetus is for your question?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-04-17 13:54:31'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "DB would be better qualified to talk about any *method* at FB. I\u2019m not
    directly involved; I just have a good seat in the front row. ;-)\r\n\r\nFrom what
    I observe, there\u2019s quite a variety. Seems like a fair bit of it comes down
    to What Works in order to Get the Job Done. \r\n\r\nBut I think the basic patterns
    are pretty common-sense:\r\n\r\n\xBB Someone starts a design and develops a modest
    family. Later it gets expanded and someone else takes over interpretation of the
    extensions. (e.g. Benton Gothic/Sans, Bureau Grotesque/Grot)\r\n\r\n\xBB Someone
    designs the basic characters (~ascii), and someone else gets to play it out to
    all the rest of the char set, and maybe refine the fitting. \r\n\r\n\xBB Someone
    might work on the roman styles, while someone else develops the italics. (I think
    Benton Modern Display went like this, for example.)\r\n\r\n\xBB Someone designs
    a display family, then someone else works up the text versions. Or vice versa.
    (FB Californian, among others, I believe)\r\n\r\n\xBB Someone designs the basic
    styles, and someone else gets to develop all the grades. (Most of the Readability
    Series)\r\n\r\n\xBB Someone designs the family, and later someone else gets to
    do a lot of customization for a client \u2014 could be stylistic adjustments,
    char set extensions, revised fitting, etc. (Various custom bread-and-butter jobs)\r\n\r\n\xBB
    And Dyana seems to like doing everyone\u2019s kerning ;-)\r\n\r\nAny particular
    project might entail a combination of these possibilities. And of course, any
    \u201Clead\u201D designer would get final review of everything. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    know; is this collaborative design, or just pragmatic production? I\u2019m not
    exactly sure what you\u2019re after in terms of \u201Cnotable efforts.\u201D"
  created: '2010-04-17 13:59:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > font production as a manufacturing process like any other</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    The one-person-does-it-all has been the more exceptional case until very recently,
    or unless you go way back in history. It is, after all, pretty much an industrial
    art. Or at least it used to be."
  created: '2010-04-17 14:07:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Richard, mostly I've gradually become more interested in the potential and
    dynamics of group creativity. A wiki would be nice (it's high time I help out
    by authoring one here). Most practically, I'm writing a conference proposal.\r\n\r\nKent,
    that elaboration is highly useful - thanks.\r\n\r\n> The one-person-does-it-all
    has been the more exceptional case\r\n> until very recently, or unless you go
    way back in history.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I think there's a difference between
    resorting to help because you have no choice, and then stifling the contribution
    of your \"collaborator\" (I'm thinking of designer versus punchcutter in the metal
    age) versus happily collaborating for economic or creative reasons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-17 15:13:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting thread.\r\nI wonder, might a differentiation be useful between
    the form of division of labor that is apparently pretty much the normal course
    of events inside [at least some] foundries; and individual designers who usually
    work alone (or even across different foundries*) deciding to join up for a given
    project?\r\n\r\n* Things like <a href=\"http://metaserif.com/story/\">Meta Serif</a>
    come to mind. "
  created: '2010-04-17 15:25:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'It sounds to me like there are at least three significantly different kinds
    of collaboration. 1. People trade tentative glyph designs back and forth until
    everyone is happy. 2. One person has the design idea and does the design in one
    weight and style and has others expand, with feedback from the designer. 3. One
    person does the drawing of glyphs, but much of the rest of the process is left
    to others. How much the "design" aspect is really shared thus seems to vary a
    lot.  '
  created: '2010-04-17 18:22:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I generally do everything myself, although I did collaborate with Amanda
    Duffy on the Duffy Script face. She didn't do any digital work, but provided many
    samples of lettering that were conducive to typographic interpretation, as well
    as pen and ink renderings of typographic characters that she would never be called
    upon to use in her work as an illustrator. So she was involved in the design process
    to some degree.\r\n\r\nI have also had clients of commissioned work who have provided
    a very strong direction, quite specific on details (with constructive recommendations,
    rather than just saying, \"I don't like that\"), although this is not usually
    the case. But it was for the design of Pratt, so much so that I felt it quite
    appropriate to name the face after David Pratt, the design director of the paper,
    <em>The Globe and Mail</em>, for which it was commissioned. Mr Pratt was a collaborator,
    although he is not formally listed as co-designer."
  created: '2010-04-17 19:45:55'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "ITC Bodoni comes to mind.\r\n\r\nIt was designed by Jim Parkinson, Sumner
    Stone, Holly Goldsmith, Janice Fishman under the art direction of Sumner Stone"
  created: '2010-04-19 08:36:13'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: If decisions on character coverage would meet your criteria, Andron is a work
    of collaboration, too. Though the actual graphic design is entirely my own part,
    a Hundreds of specialized characters were incorporated on grounds of assembled
    research results of the MUFI colleagues.
  created: '2010-04-19 09:34:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>It was designed by Jim Parkinson, Sumner Stone, Holly Goldsmith, Janice
    Fishman under the art direction of Sumner Stone.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd suppose Giambattista
    deserves a little credit, too! ;-)"
  created: '2010-04-19 12:08:48'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@hrant\r\n\r\n>Most practically, I'm writing a conference proposal.\r\nFor
    where? It's got my vote.\r\n\r\nI'm signed on as a speaker/facilitator at <a href=\"http://fontconf.com/\">fontConf</a>
    in St. Paul, Minnesota on June 19\r\n[<strong>Attention all type and graphic designers
    in the Minneapolis/St.Paul area: Please attend!</strong>]\r\nIt should be a lot
    of fun.\r\n\r\nIn line with this thread: Font designer Chank Deisel is facilitating
    a collaborative workshop session called, \"Let\u2019s Design an Open Source Font
    Together\" and I'm doing a session with the mysterious title of \"Font Fixing:
    Piercing The Veil Of OpenType Technology\".\r\nMy premise being that there's an
    awful lot of raw material with licensing that permits derivative work but that
    just needs fixing. Spacing, kerning, hinting, miscellaneous tweaking. A much easier
    path than designing from scratch, it seems to me.\r\n\r\nAnd the result need not
    necessarily be offered free of charge, either. (Check out Ascender's repackaging
    and pricing of the Droid families - they <em>claim</em> they've added glyphs to
    the original free set - originally sponsored by Google and released under the
    Apache 2.0 license - but they don't go so far as to say what glyphs they've added.
    Hmmm...)\r\n\r\nIlluminatin'.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-19 14:18:45'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Sorry I'm late to the ball but I couldn't help but notice the topic . . .\r\n\r\nI
    guess you could say I'm a serial collaborator at this point, initially having
    performed several collaborations with Brian Bonislawsky of Astigmatic for the
    Bitstream BTN fonts - 500 fonts in 90 days :D - As well as the Casino Buffet Font
    Set and the upcoming Viva Las Buffets Font Set . . .\r\n\r\nOtherwise the Sideshow
    type foundry is nearly 100% based on collaborations I've done with lettering artists
    as well as my collaboration with Crystal Kluge as the Tart Workshop foundry .
    . .\r\n\r\nFurther, the Filmotype Junto is literally a group of 10+ type designers
    all reviving analog filmstrip fonts into modern OpenType digital fonts and we've
    had to as a group define the parameters of what is acceptable in the manner we
    revive the faces from how they are scanned to how they are built and expanded
    where characters weren't previously drawn.\r\n\r\nEvery one of these collaborations
    has been very successful for all parties both professionally and creatively.\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-04-20 14:53:14'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "All of the work we do at H&FJ is collaborative, which is why the studio,
    rather than any single contributor, is always credited as the designer of a typeface.\r\n\r\nIt's
    never been very easy to describe the division of labor that goes into a typeface,
    and as our studio grows (there are now eleven of us, not including outside contractors)
    this only gets thornier. It's sometimes the case that one person is the originator
    of an idea, and another serves as its editor, and that individual designers are
    specifically tasked with different aspects of the project that can be neatly segregated.
    But most of the time the process is more integrated and iterative.\r\n\r\nRight
    now we're working on a family of fonts whose central styles are a roman that I
    drew twenty-one years ago, and an italic that I began sketching in the late nineties.
    When we had occasion to revisit the design a few years ago, Tobias and I began
    discussing what opportunities there were for improvement, and what we hoped might
    be a light dusting ultimately turned into a gut renovation. Andy Clymer took some
    of the weight explorations I'd begun, and developed them into a four-square prototype,
    and when the three of us discussed this work we agreed to make some substantial
    changes to the central designs. Andy's fuller development of the italic also introduced
    some fantastic new ideas that I was eager to employ in the romans as well, so
    we revisited parts of the character set with these in mind. Ksenya Samarskaya
    has been working on some of the more esoteric parts of the character set, and
    her work with the tabular figures has begun to call into question our decisions
    about the design of the lining figures. As recently as this winter, when the font
    was \"done\" (a word now banned from the office) we were tinkering with the font's
    x-height. Finally, I think this is one of the families in which what remains of
    my original drawings now lives \"off grid,\" somewhere between the Book and Medium
    weights, where this work exists only to spawn the interpolations.\r\n\r\nI realize
    as I write this account that what makes this an especially rare project for us
    is that Sara Soskolne, our senior designer, hasn't been involved in it yet. Sara
    has contributed to most of our powerhouse type families in recent years \u2014
    Chronicle, Verlag, and the new Gothams are just a few \u2014 and I've yet to see
    a project that hasn't required some cleverer thinking from her than from whoever
    at H&FJ she's most closely working with. Right now Sara's working on a family
    of fonts for which she drew the principal styles, and I'm certain that as this
    project develops it will certainly benefit from artistic and editorial contributions
    from the rest of the team.\r\n\r\nThough I started my career as a one-man band,
    I've come to think of type design as an inherently collaborative act. Part of
    this is certainly a matter of complexity \u2014 a typeface with 800 glyphs in
    each of 106 styles simply needs more hands on deck \u2014 but mostly I think that
    as a process, type design is just improved by the kind of rigorous review that
    requires two or more people. Every conversation between designers at H&FJ involves
    articulating our decisions, and sometimes we find that our inability to explain
    a particular choice marks it as a bad one. But just as often, someone finds an
    unexpected way of articulating (or questioning) something that someone else has
    done, which can inspire a new way of looking at things, or a new strategy that's
    useful to the project \u2014 or another project. It's hard to have such a productive
    conversation with yourself.\r\n\r\nYears ago, I read a witheringly funny short
    story in a magazine, and was moved to buy the compilation from which it was excerpted.
    I was shocked to find that the 20,000-word original was a such a mess: overwrought,
    poorly organized, and lacking the sharp turns and taut rhythms that made what
    I'd first read so marvelous. I realized more than ever just how crucial a good
    editor is to the process, and how vastly improved a work of art can be when it
    benefits from a colleague who understands you, sometimes even better than you
    understand yourself, and is indisputably on your side. That's how H&FJ makes fonts."
  created: '2010-04-21 14:52:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I've come to think of type design as an inherently collaborative act.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    has worked well for you Jonathan, but I don't believe it's the only modus operandi.\r\nThere
    are trade-offs in comparing solo with division of labor.\r\nI long ago decided
    to remain solo (as a graphic designer, before I had produced any digital fonts).\r\nThat
    was a decision to remain hands-on with the tools, more craft than industrial.
    Most immediately, I didn't want to be the old geezer standing behind the kid at
    the computer, saying \"move that a bit to the left\".\r\n\r\nOn the down side,
    it's always a struggle to stay au fait with the technical demands of font production,
    but on the up side I've found that getting inside the technicalities of a task
    can lead to new design directions; for instance, the possibilites of OpenType
    substitution codes for making more \"natural\"-looking scripts, and pseudo-randomization,
    has provided me with an ongoing theme to develop in a succession of typefaces,
    and I don't think you can really nail your contextual glyph shapes unless you
    are working hands on, because the relationship between glyph shape and substitution
    classes is so motile.\r\n\r\nI also like to do my own manual kerning, because
    I consider the relationship between sidebearings, kerning, and glyph shape to
    be a holistic matter of personal taste: so I opt more for the subjective judgement
    of the designer during the creative process, rather than the objective eye of
    the editor post facto--although I don't see why team work can't be just as effective
    when the \"editor\" is brought into the feedback loop.\r\n\r\nI must admit I haven't
    found the process of hinting to be at all stimulating, so was buoyed this morning
    to read that the new iPhone will have a superfine screen resolution with invisible
    pixels. No more hinting?!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 20:02:07'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\u201CI realized more than ever just how crucial a good editor is to the
    process, and how vastly improved a work of art can be when it benefits from a
    colleague who understands you, sometimes even better than you understand yourself,
    and is indisputably on your side.\u201D\r\n\r\nAfter a few collaborations with
    Christian, I have come to understand exactly the same thing. I am pretty certain
    that it's precisely a lack of editing and outside viewpoints that lead to the
    slew of badly executed fonts these days. Even for my \u2018own\u2019 releases,
    I make sure that I get input from a select group of trusted confidants. I also
    consider commissions & custom type as a collaborative effort. For example, there
    is no way that I would have come up with Hardys or Serrano if it wasn\u2019t for
    specific client requests & feedback during the design process.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://vllg.com/Incubator\">The
    Incubator at Village</a> is an interesting concept. It functions essentially as
    a collaboration between a young designer & Chester. \r\n\r\nI imagine that the
    majority of professional releases these days are collaborations. It would seem
    to be the norm rather than the exception. "
  created: '2010-04-21 20:24:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Mention should be made of FontFont (FSI), which regularly publishes type
    designs by many designers. \r\nMy first digital designs were FontFonts, before
    I started Shinntype.\r\nI've recently collaborated with FSI, and several people
    at its in-house studio, in up-dating those legacy format fonts to OpenType \"Pro\"
    status."
  created: '2010-04-21 20:56:21'
- author:
    name: mrschwartz
  body: "To build on what Jonathan and Kris have stated above, every release we\u2019ve
    put out through Commercial Type has been a collaboration of one kind or another,
    even where the typefaces are credited to an individual designer. Since working
    on the Guardian typefaces together, Paul Barnes and I usually conceptualize and
    draw our work together, passing files back and forth and discussing everything
    until we\u2019re both happy and nobody can remember who drew what. Our staff type
    designer Berton Hasebe is always actively involved in the ongoing discussion of
    each project as well. Even when one of us has taken the lead on a project, at
    one point that designer is bound to get stuck on something, and it usually takes
    the editorial eye of the others to get him out of the rut because we each bring
    a different sensibility to the table \u2014 Paul has an encyclopedic knowledge
    of type history and has spent years as an art director, typographer and graphic
    designer, and is British; I have the most experience as a working type designer,
    and I\u2019ve spent my career on the east coast of the US; and Berton was educated
    and worked on the west coast and in Holland.\r\n\r\nI learn something new from
    each collaborator, whether it\u2019s another type designer, like Kris or Erik
    Spiekermann, or a client (we have been very lucky to work with some really smart
    and interesting creative directors), and each collaborative project. I think my
    work would have become stale a long time ago if I had kept working on my own.
    It's easy to fall into bad habits and make excuses for things being \"good enough\"."
  created: '2010-04-21 22:06:09'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: I'm still waiting for you.
  created: '2010-04-21 23:59:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I'm still waiting for you.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo much time, so few collaborators
    :("
  created: '2010-04-22 03:19:12'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: I very much enjoyed collaborating with illustrator Kevin Cornell on Phaeton.
    The best part was seeing ideas from his pen that would never enter my mind to
    even consider. The challenge for me was taking his exceptional lettering and making
    it work as a font, without killing it's soul. We had such fun, we're pressing
    on with another collaboration (albeit slooowly).
  created: '2010-04-22 06:16:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-22 16:10:35'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "There are sooooo many different ways to collaborate, and so many degrees
    of collaboration, that I believe such a list or wiki would have to be incomplete
    by definition. We see this all the time here at FontFont. There are classic cases
    where designers get other designers to help expand on existing families for instance
    (e.g. <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/super_families/ff_milo_ff_milo_serif/\">FF
    Milo & FF Milo Serif</a>). Others do fine on their own, but require help from
    their foundries mainly for publication and marketing (does this also count as
    a collaboration? ;). Plenty of designers request help from our TypeDepartment
    in many different areas, ranging from technical or design issues to very elementary
    questions. There are even cases where our in-house designers contribute heavily
    to the creation of a FontFont (e.g. <a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/archives/new-fontfonts-ff-dagny-from-tabloid-to-desktop/\">FF
    Dagny</a>). Since every typeface is as individual as its creator, we contribute
    as flexibly as possible on all different levels as needed. So I\u2019d second
    Kris on this: <em>\u201EI imagine that the majority of professional releases these
    days are collaborations. It would seem to be the norm rather than the exception.\u201C</em>\r\n\r\n(BTW,
    <a href=\"http://www.metaserif.com\">FF Meta Serif</a> wasn\u2019t a cross-foundry
    collaboration, it was a collaboration of individual designers.)"
  created: '2010-04-23 12:37:49'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'the ClearType collection of fonts including Meiryo was a pretty hefty collaboration
    of experts for : Original design, Hinting, OpenType, consultation on Greek and
    Cyrillic design. It is all described in the ClearType book Now Read this. I doubt
    any one person could have tackled the lot for any one typeface, maybe Luc(as)
    :)'
  created: '2010-04-23 16:13:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: In type, collaboration is good. The reason is type-blindness, the affliction
    type designers suffer from where they can't see what is wrong with their type.
    There is probably no typeface that has lasted more than a decade that did not
    have some collaboration. Even designers known for doing everything themselves
    (such as Type Gods A, B, C, and D) have usually, in an unpublic and uncredited
    manner, sought outside advice. One problem with collaborators is that unless there
    is an economic motive to put a lot of work into the font, the collaborative input
    is likely to be shallower than it could be. Hence the advantage of the 'studio
    system' -- when it works. It doesn't always work, as van Krimpen noted ... often.
    At least not to everyone's satisfaction. But that is implicit in the design and
    manufacture of a font which is a mere intermediary function in the creation of
    printed matter (or displayed matter). Nor can one overlook the limitations of
    technology. For example, in how many PostScript versions of Frutiger is the z
    raised, slightly, above the baseline, as it is supposed to be? Who makes the decision
    that a unit is probably too coarse? Is the error corrected in TrueType, where
    it could be? At what size and resolution could it possibly be desirable to have
    this degree of refinement? Is Frutiger interested in how his anonymous collaborators
    things work these things out? How many collaborators and cloners even notice that
    this influential font has been designed with this level of sophistication?
  created: '2010-04-23 22:37:03'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "The Fonrty was started as a collaborative effort. We remain so for all of
    the reasons mentioned in previous posts. That and my numbers are always more cool
    than Mike's. \r\n\r\nDid you mean noteworthy designers? ;)"
  created: '2010-04-29 16:06:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Don't forget the collaboration that occurs at Typophile.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    in lieu of hiring specialist consultants in Greek and Cyrillic for the Modern
    Suite, I was able to proceed with my own research (much of it on the Internet),
    and with assistance here from people such as John Hudson and native Cyrillic/Greek
    speakers. The discussion of Bulgarian alternates was fascinating -- useful for
    providing a cultural perspective on the Cyrillic script, more so than making font
    sales in Bulgaria! \r\n\r\nThe Critique forum provides the editing function that
    Jonathan Hoefler mentioned."
  created: '2010-04-30 02:54:09'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: The Arabic font Basim Marah "was designed and drawn by Basim Salem Al Mahdi
    from Iraq and then digitalized as a typeface by Hasan Abu Afash from Palestine."  http://www.winsoft-international.com/en/products/tasmeem-fonts-basimmarah.html
  created: '2010-05-13 11:14:38'
date: '2010-04-16 23:23:51'
title: 'In Search Of: Instances of Collaborative Type Design'

---
