---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "In the latest development of web served typography, the World Wide Web Consortium
  today accepted and published the Web Open Font Format specification. This is an
  important step in the standardisation of this format, as set out in the charter
  of the recently establish W3C web font working group.\r\n\r\nThe most notable and
  exciting thing about this is that WOFF was jointly submitted to the W3C by the Mozilla
  Foundation (whose Jonathan Kew developed the format along with Erik van Blokland
  and Tal Lemming), Opera Software ASA, <em><strong>and Microsoft Corporation.</strong></em>
  And it isn't often that I use bold italics.\r\n\r\nLinks:\r\n1. <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/2010/03/\">The
  submission documentation.</a>\r\n2. <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/2010/03/Comment/\">W3C
  staff comment on acceptance of submission.</a>\r\n3. <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Submission/WOFF/\">The
  WOFF 1.0 File Format specification</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "I think the bold italic has been waiting for this day.\r\nCongratulations."
  created: '2010-04-20 04:17:31'
- author:
    name: colinmford
    picture: 128165
  body: So far my hope to have WOFFs accepted by the end of the year is coming true!
    Compressed, protected font files... good for the web and for typeface designers!
  created: '2010-04-20 06:16:06'
- author:
    name: aaronbell
    picture: 117132
  body: "Brilliant. This is all very exciting! Big congrats to Jonathan Kew, Erik
    van Blokland, Tal Lemming and everyone else for their work to get the format prepared.
    \r\n\r\nAnd yes, the bold caps are definitely appropriate.\r\n\r\nHuzzah!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-20 09:08:39'
- author:
    name: fonthead
    picture: 116475
  body: '@colinmford - I  guess you could argue they are safe from casual theft, but
    WOFF files aren''t exactly protected. Fontforge and woff2sfnt can both convert
    a WOFF back to a "normal" font. Just sayin.'
  created: '2010-04-20 14:55:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\nThanks for the news flash. This raises many questions
    in my mind about IE9, but I guess I'll have answers soon enough.\r\n\r\n@colinmford
    and all:\r\n<em>Compressed, protected font files</em>\r\nCompressed, yes. Protected,
    no. Yes, it's a good thing to have a standardized, compressed wrapper for sfnt
    fonts. But don't look to them for protection, they won't give you any. If anything,
    the quick adoption of WOFF presents a dilemma. You got what you asked for, now
    what? Where's the product? What's the price?\r\n\r\nOutside of a few simple things
    that can be done to make fonts less usable to someone who's downloaded a font
    from a web site using @font-face - there is and always has been only two options:
    1) avoid the web like the plague 2) take your chances like everybody else who
    sells resources for web sites.\r\nIf the browser can \"see\" it, I can take it,
    shake it, bake it, and, if I so choose - install it. WOFF, EOT, TTF, OTF - all
    the same. Easy.\r\nBut this does not necessarily mean you have lost a sale or
    that you won't make money from your efforts. And new, unimagined opportunities
    might emerge.\r\nIMHO the type design community is in a far better position than
    most others to profit from the web.\r\nAnd then again, maybe I'm wrong and your
    income will plummet. There are worse things in the world than having to change
    careers. You can move to New Orleans and help them rebuild. Or Detroit, maybe.\r\nTwo
    last things:\r\nWOFF is certainly an ego stroke to the font design community so
    by all means take a victory lap and enjoy it. Being accomodated <em>should</em>
    feel good. And an unexpected show of support from the mother ship (MSFT) an added
    bonus.\r\nContrary to what you might think, there is a tremendous amount of good
    will towards font designers in the web design community. There really is. And
    in the long term, without common consent, you are screwed. It's a fragile thing,
    but my hope is that it remains intact.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-20 15:05:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">This raises many questions in my mind about IE9\r\n\r\nThe IE team are woking
    on a blog post."
  created: '2010-04-20 15:36:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\nIf it can be passed along...\r\n\r\n1) IE9 preview
    works with EOT\u2019s in IE9 standards mode so can I safely assume that EOT will
    be supported in IE9 standards mode?\r\n2) Will EOT be \u201Ctweaked\u201D to support
    OTF CFF files?\r\n3) Will linking to \"raw\" TTF or OTF fonts be supported with
    with the caveat that the embedding bits are zero?\r\n4) Will WOFF be supported
    in IE9? And, if so, will the embedding bits in the decompressed/reassembled font
    be enforced in any way?\r\n\r\nThem the questions.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-20 15:44:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks, I'll pass these questions along. Now to fix my \"r\" key. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si "
  created: '2010-04-20 16:30:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Regarding protection, it's certainly the case that WOFF does <em>not</em>
    provide any technical measures to protect font IP, i.e. no DRM-like features.
    What WOFF does for font developers is to draw a line between existing TTF/OTF
    fonts not licensed for use in web served typography and a new, compressed format
    that is licensed for use in web served typography. I see this as a kind of protection
    against casual or unconscious misuse of TTF/OTF fonts, which is what we were seeking
    in our objections to naked font linking. At the same time, a new format gives
    us the opportunity to build delivery systems that incorporate font copy serialisation,
    embedded EULA abstracts, permissions and recommendations, and other metadata.
    There's no obligation in the format on browsers to do anything with such metadata
    in terms of policing licensing, but it makes it easier for font developers and
    their clients to manage license use and protect their investment.
  created: '2010-04-20 18:01:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, with regard to embedding bits and WOFF, I think it would be precipitous
    for any browser maker to make a statement about this at this stage, because that
    is certain to be a question the working group looks at. As discussed on Typophile
    earlier, between Microsoft's original EOT spec, which linked embedding bits to
    web font linking permissions, and the present circumstances, those bits developed
    a much broader use in terms of PDF embedding, and as such don't represent any
    EULA I am aware of with regard to web font linking. The situation is such that
    for both CWT (EOT-Lite) and WOFF some of us have considered expressly disassociating
    web font linking from embedding permissions.\r\n\r\nSee also:\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009OctDec/0027.html\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009OctDec/0032.html\r\n\r\nRemoving
    ambiguity about the relevance of embedding bits to web font linking seems to me
    desirable for everyone involved, and the cleanest way to do that is to say that
    they are not relevant, at least for WOFF. They would, of course, become relevant
    again the moment someone took a WOFF font and embedded it in something. :)"
  created: '2010-04-20 19:12:30'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-20 19:37:51'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Will EOT be \u201Ctweaked\u201D to support OTF CFF files?</cite>\r\n\r\nEOT
    doesn't really need to be tweaked to support CFF. In fact, CFF-in-EOT works in
    IE8 (but not earlier versions of IE). The problem is getting that EOT built --
    Microsoft's WEFT doesn't work with anything but TTF, so that's what needs the
    tweaking."
  created: '2010-04-21 06:33:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Removing ambiguity about the relevance of embedding bits to web font linking
    seems to me desirable for everyone involved...\r\n\r\nAnything that helps disambiguate
    embedding bits from web font linking is welcome, but not at <em>any</em> price.
    But instilling certainty just by format is uncertainty veiled. \r\n\r\n>What WOFF
    does for font developers is to draw a line between existing TTF/OTF fonts not
    licensed for use in web served typography and a new, compressed format that is
    licensed for use in web served typography. \r\n\r\nIt draws quite a different
    'line' for font envelopers in a new \"Web Font Management Business\", as you see.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 15:10:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 15:58:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Anything that helps disambiguate embedding bits from web font
    linking is welcome, but not at any price.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree, on the general
    principle that nothing should be done \u2018at any price\u2019, but I'd like to
    know what you would consider acceptable/unacceptable means of disambiguating embedding
    bits from web font linking.\r\n\r\nAs I see it, formally disambiguating them in
    the text of the WOFF standard makes sense, and this rightly puts the focus for
    permissions on the WOFF metadata and on whatever other license data the font maker
    puts in the font, e.g. in an epar table.\r\n\r\nWould it also be nice to see this
    disambiquated in the OT/OFF spec and in the EOT spec? Yes, I think so, but that
    would be a different battle on a different battlefield. The new W3C working group
    has a specific remit, and I'm interested in figuring out what might be done and
    what should be done within that context. So the question for today is what, if
    anything, the WOFF standard should have to say about embedding bits?"
  created: '2010-04-21 18:21:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Personally I think the embedding permissions should be treated like the other
    metadata in the WOFF. Purely informational, optionally presented via a font information
    panel.\r\n\r\n\"The presence (or absence) and content of the metadata block MUST
    NOT affect font loading or rendering behavior of user agents; it is intended to
    be purely informative. However, if user agents provide a means for users to view
    information about fonts (such as a \"Font Information\" panel) then they SHOULD
    treat the metadata block as the primary source, falling back on the font's name
    table entries when relevant extended metadata elements are not present.\" \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 18:32:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sorry, I was commenting on WOFF (subject of this thread) not EOT, PDF or
    other forms of embedding that conform to the OpenType Spec's definition of document
    embedding. \r\n\r\nIn those cases my personal opinion (which hasn\u2019t changed
    in the past ten years) is that the embedding permissions should be considered
    alongside any additional restrictions in the written EULA. I do not think the
    OT spec\u2019s wording should be changed. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 21:43:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si, the question is not whether the embedding bits should be treated informationally
    (if relevant at all, then that is surely how they will be treated), but what information
    those bits present -- if any -- relating to font linking. The issue for font makers
    is that, thanks to Acrobat, most fonts made over the past decade have embedding
    permissions set to permit embedding (most often print/preview, sometimes editable,
    only occasionally installable), but that these settings do not relate in any way
    to licensing for web font linking. Hence, it becomes important to clarify the
    relationship of the embedding bits to font linking to avoid confusion over their
    meaning.\r\n\r\nIn EOT, the embedding bits were explicitly associated with web
    font linking, in terms of embedding fonts within an EOT, both in the spec and
    as implemented in the WEFT tool. That is one approach to clarification, but obviously
    one that some font makers find problematic for the reasons stated: a font might
    have the embedding bits set appropriately for Acrobat embedding, but should not
    be embedded in an EOT. Simply stated, the embedding bits provide insufficient
    information, and so are ambiguous in their meaning related to different embedding/linking
    technologies. Hence the need for other metadata, but rather than having multiple
    permissions information in different locations, with the attendant risk of conflicting
    or ambiguous information, it seems to me a good idea to remove this particular
    set of permissions (that do not directly and solely relate to web font linking)
    from the equation for web fonts."
  created: '2010-04-22 02:31:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>...conform to the OpenType Spec's definition of document embedding.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes
    the OpenType spec have a definition of document embedding? I've looked and failed
    to find anything that looks to me like such a definition. The closest thing is
    the statement \u2018Embeddable fonts may be stored in a document\u2019, but this
    is very vague and not what I would consider a definition. There is no statement
    of what constitutes 'storing in' or of what constitutes a document for this purpose.\r\n\r\nLet's
    ask the question as plainly as possible: <strong>Does linking to a served font
    in a CSS file constitute embedding of a font in a document?</strong>\r\n\r\nIt
    is because I expect positive and negative responses to this question from different
    people that I think the issue needs to be clarified."
  created: '2010-04-22 02:44:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Does linking to a served font in a CSS file constitute embedding of a font
    in a document?\r\n\r\nIMHO No. Unless a mechanism like URL binding is in place."
  created: '2010-04-22 03:09:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Also I know there are gray areas... definition of "document" and definition
    of "in", but EULAs and licensing FAQs can and do address these questions, as well
    as deal with issues of distribution (eg. workflow PDFs vs public PDFs). But plain
    linking (with no access control) certainly falls outside the OT spec definition. '
  created: '2010-04-22 03:41:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Si. This is the kind of clarification I'm hoping to move toward, preferably
    with consensus.
  created: '2010-04-22 05:52:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">So the question for today is what, if anything, the WOFF standard should
    have to say about embedding bits?\r\n\r\nI know it\u2019s tomorrow, but the WOFF
    wrapper should have to say everything the OT font says about embedding, and more,
    as in EPAR. There are documents with embedding, there are applications with embedding,
    and devices and OS embedding font, fonts fonts. There are all kinds of linkings
    desired, and though WOFF is not the place to define new ones, (I mean our OT fonts
    need to have all the informative metadata our WOFF fonts have), first, or how
    would anyone know our OT are not licensed for web linking of any kind?, go right
    ahead.;)\r\n\r\nSii on Scope>\"The presence (or absence) and content of the metadata
    block MUST NOT affect font loading or rendering behavior of user agents; it is
    intended to be purely informative.\"\r\n\r\nWhat kind of publishing system is
    it... doesn't allow people the freedom to publish to whom they want? But that\u2019s
    my problem, we\u2019ll leave w3c out of it until it\u2019s clearer.\r\n\r\nAlso
    I think the scope of this WG is primarily to slay formats, so let\u2019s close
    this <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2000AprJun/0000.html\">epic</a>
    for Ash?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-22 13:19:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-22 15:56:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, David.
  created: '2010-04-22 18:21:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"It appears that we have decided to implement WOFF in Chromium\"\r\n\r\n...and
    then there was one.\r\n\r\nvia http://news.cnet.com/8301-30685_3-20003277-264.html"
  created: '2010-04-23 21:40:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Also IE Blog - http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2010/04/23/meet-woff-the-standard-web-font-format.aspx
    \r\n\r\nSorry Richard, this doesn't cover the questions you raised. It's more
    of an announcement. "
  created: '2010-04-23 22:22:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@christopher slye\r\n\r\n>EOT doesn't really need to be tweaked to support
    CFF.\r\n\r\nThanks. So I was informed some days ago. But I was told it was platform
    specific, not browser specific.\r\nWill seek clarifications. This sounds like
    a new job for the <a href=\"http://eotfast.com\">cheetah</em>.\r\n\r\n@db\r\n>I
    know it\u2019s tomorrow, but the WOFF wrapper should have to say everything\r\n>the
    OT font says about embedding.\r\nThe wrapper or the font contained within?\r\nSequence:\r\nPack
    up the font with WOFF, font has, within it, the embedding bits. Send WOFF to browser.
    Browser unpacks WOFF, looks at font, sees bits, does what it does whatever that
    may be.\r\nFirefox does nothing one way or the other.\r\nAre you expecting something
    different?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 17:48:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The wrapper or the font contained within?\r\n\r\nAssuming a correct font
    format UAs do and will do nothing based on either the WOFF wrapper or the wrapped
    content. That's why I'm confused at this WG's discussion of what this next accepted
    format is supposed to do/contain other than what the OT format can contain. I
    thought WOFF was designed and accepted, and now the WG are supposed to slay the
    rest of the litter. If not, I think little will have been gained.\r\n\r\n>Sequence:\r\n\r\n>Pack
    up the font in a WOFF, font has, within it, the embedding bits. \r\nThe current
    OT font format is converted to WOFF. Within it, there is no explicit and standard
    information about font linking. Embedding information, as hacked into the standard,
    is not relevant to web use. \r\n\r\n>Send WOFF to browser. \r\nThe browser calls
    and the server sends and existing WOFF or creates one on the fly. \r\nThis WOFF
    is downloaded to the CPU of the user\r\n\r\n>Browser unpacks WOFF, \r\nBrowser
    uses the CPU of the user to convert the WOFF to OT and 'enumerate' it to the OS.\r\n\r\n>looks
    at font, sees bits, does what it does whatever that may be.\r\nNot as far as I
    know. There are no seeing-bit browsers, only format-seeing ones.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 22:48:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I thought WOFF was designed and accepted, and now the WG are supposed
    to slay the rest of the litter.</em>\r\n\r\nSlaying the rest of the litter is
    what happened <em>before</em> the working groups was established.\r\n\r\nIf you're
    confused about what the working group is doing, <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/2009/08/WebFonts/charter.html\">read
    the charter</a>. It includes delivery of a conformance specification for dead
    cats.\r\n\r\n<em>Embedding information, as hacked into the standard, is not relevant
    to web use.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is exactly what the WG is seeking to formally clarify,
    since David Berlow and John Hudson saying it repeatedly does not a standard make.
    There seems general agreement about two things:\r\n\r\n1. All but fsType bit 1
    (restricted license embedding) are not relevant to WOFF and this should be clearly
    stated;\r\n\r\n2. User agents, e.g. browsers, will ignore all fsType embedding
    bits including bit 1.\r\n\r\nWhat isn't agreed yet is whether that bit 1 \u2014
    regarding which the OT spec says\r\n\r\n<em>Fonts that have <strong>only</strong>
    this bit set <strong>must not be modified, embedded or exchanged in any manner</strong>
    without first obtaining permission of the legal owner.</em>\r\n\r\n\u2014 should
    be interpreted as meaning that WOFF <em>creation tools</em> must not convert such
    fonts to WOFF format.\r\n\r\nI suspect the outcome will be that this bit too will
    be deemed irrelevant to WOFF, but the language of the OT spec -- \u2018modified,
    embedded or exchanged in any manner\u2019 -- is such that its worth looking at
    carefully.\r\n___\r\n\r\nAnother possibility is that a new fsType table version
    could be defined in the OT spec with a specific 'Don't convert to WOFF' bit added.
    I like this idea, because it has no impact on existing fonts, but would provide
    a means to restrict new desktop fonts from being converted to WOFF by end users,
    if that were a font maker's desire."
  created: '2010-05-12 07:20:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Slaying the rest of the litter is what happened before the working groups
    was established.\r\n\r\nIntellifont? TrueDoc? Gone but not unremembered?\r\n\r\nAnd
    if EOT is dead, John Hudson repeatedly saying 'twas fatally flawed in its handling
    of embedding bits, does a standard help. This format had \"overwhelming\" support
    from The Foundries, and it was my pleasure to lend my voice to yours. \r\n\r\n>Another
    possibility is that a new fsType table version could be defined in the OT spec
    >with a specific 'Don't convert to WOFF' bit added. \r\n\r\nA new fsType. Wow.
    Is that really in the scope? Can it have a \"do not convert to SVG\" too? How
    about \"don't convert from WOFF\"? ...from SVG?\r\n\r\n...then there's the intermediate
    problem of OT being used by some browsers: Assuming that all browsers use only
    WOFF by 2012, we still all have to express our rights in OT for all exchanges
    in any manner, including those that are not expressed, being forbidden \u2014
    because OT is being used by browsers and format converters, and will be used by
    WOFF converters. Or do people think the WOFF conversion tools are the right place
    to add permissions? Do You think the WOFF conversion tools are the right place
    to add permissions? Do The Foundries think the WOFF conversion tools are the right
    place to add permissions? Were the EOT conversion tools are the right place to
    add permissions?\r\n\r\nSomewhere along this line, it's going to occur to enough
    of The Foundries that 500,000-per-style 1992 $'s made Verdana. Maybe this group
    should add \"OFF for Web\" to its title, add another scope, and binoculate this
    super-extraordinary situation to resolution. Or should we all just wait for more
    resolution?;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-13 12:45:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">A new fsType. Wow. Is that really in the scope?\r\n\r\nI don't think so,
    given the history in this area. But OpenType is an open standard, so you could
    give it a try. \r\n\r\n>Assuming that all browsers use only WOFF by 2012\r\n\r\nI
    think browser makers have declared that they will not deprecate raw font support.
    Microsoft is not planning to deprecate EOT.\r\n\r\n>and will be used by WOFF converters.\r\n\r\nI
    have a feeling most vendors will provide WOFF fonts alongside other formats or
    via a service model. They\u2019ll likely prohibit end-user conversion (as most
    EULAs currently do) and police any misuse. However, now would probably be a good
    time to talk to the people producing conversion tools if you want to influence
    the landscape. \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-13 22:17:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii>...to talk to the people producing conversion tools if you want to influence
    the landscape.\r\n\r\nWhatever you say! Ohhhh too late. Now we have to wait until
    October, and intersection with some lunar phase of ISO appearing in Andromeda
    to get one more bit, no.... wait, Phinney wants TWO Bits! Let\u2019s all mob together
    \u2018nd get an SVG bit or two! I bid FOUR bits, and a bit for one format and
    then the other \u2014 and bit by bit we\u2019ll figure out the landscape is a
    lot of bits without <em>my</em> help?\r\n\r\nThen, if we\u2019re lucky, we\u2019ll
    see how serious is the intent to define and protect font IP, not by mechanism
    or garden fence format, but by a table of stated, legally unambiguous permissions.
    One other interesting way to look at the landscape is to track the desires of
    parties in the \u201Cweb font business\u201D with absolutely none-to-little font
    IP of their own. What landscape do they want? is a pretty cool spectator sport.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-14 00:25:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Ohhhh too late.\r\n\r\nYep, you're probably right. You're about two years
    too late."
  created: '2010-05-14 01:11:28'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Haha. The train has left the station fellas.
  created: '2010-05-14 03:15:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Oh nuts!
  created: '2010-05-14 03:55:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Then, if we\u2019re lucky, we\u2019ll see how serious is the intent
    to define and protect font IP, not by mechanism or garden fence format, but by
    a table of stated, legally unambiguous permissions.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's the thought
    that crossed my mind as I typed out the suggestion re. WOFF-specific fsType bit.
    But a table of 'legally unambiguous permissions' is by definition an abstract
    of the EULA, and is itself dependent on the EULA to give it any legal weight.
    Since browser makers are already adamant that the EULA constitutes the source
    of permissions or prohibitions and that they will not be responsible for any policing
    of these through technical methods, I'm left with my old question: What is such
    a table supposed to do that the EULA doesn't already do? How does it work?\r\n\r\nfsType
    embedding bits, on the other hand, are a conventionally established technical
    mechanism for restricting certain kinds of use of fonts. If one is interested
    in a <em>technical mechanism</em> for preventing use of fonts as WOFF files, they're
    the obvious place to look first.\r\n\r\n<em>Or do people think the WOFF conversion
    tools are the right place to add permissions?</em>\r\n\r\nA very valid question:
    one that I'd like to see answered. The makers of WEFT apparently thought that
    an EOT conversion tool was the right place to add permissions. Someone thought
    they would be interested in a technical mechanism (using existing embedding bits)
    to prevent a font from being converted to an EOT file, so I'm inquring whether
    a parallel in WOFF creation would make sense. I'm not wedded to the idea, but
    I'd like to know whether font makers are interested in a technical mechanism to
    prevent a font from being converted to a WOFF file?"
  created: '2010-05-14 05:27:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Yep, you're probably right. You're about two years too late.\r\n\r\nNo...
    I started this more than 2 years ago. What's not too late is that the courts are
    still gonna be around when this is done. \r\n\r\n>The train has left the station
    fellas.\r\n\r\nBut do Your tracks end in paradise or a James Cameron finale?\r\n\r\n>If
    one is interested in a technical mechanism for preventing use of fonts as WOFF
    files[...]\r\n\r\nBut we are not interested in a technical mechanism for preventing
    use. That's decided. \r\n\r\n>What is such a table supposed to do that the EULA
    doesn't already do? How does it work?\r\n\r\n1. Be readable in a standard sort
    of way.\r\n\r\n2. and writable, in a standard sort of way.\r\n\r\n3. be expandable
    in a standard sort of way.\r\n\r\nGo ahead, I dare the entire industry to try
    and write EULAs. You first John, then we'll see how Adobe and MS fare, if ever.
    Then you can go through the whole WG and see what they have in mind for EULAs,
    if any web fonts ever come to their minds. \r\n\r\n>...whether font makers are
    interested in a technical mechanism to prevent a font from being converted to
    a WOFF file?\r\n\r\nNot interested. I am only interested in making plain in our
    fonts, that if a user or software developer wants to move their exposed little
    asses across the line from a simple licensing issue, to a much more complex copyright/trademark
    issue, we will be there with the proper 'paperwork'.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-14 13:00:51'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: '@David - Depends who you ask. A fair number of font designers I''m working
    with agree that the old Garden Fence Train #9 leads right to paradise.'
  created: '2010-05-14 13:25:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "ED>A fair number of font designers I'm working with...\r\n\r\nThat's fair,
    and think broadly of what you support. \r\n\r\nED>...agree that the old Garden
    Fence Train #9 leads right to paradise.\r\n\r\nYour  train is still to prove itself
    when the full load of customers hits the fair number of font designers. Unrecommended,
    unserved, unpermitted, autohinted libraries with limited linquistic coverage are
    going to take more than a little love to get their makers to paradise. But what's
    your definition of paradise?\r\n\r\nTry this...http://www.fontspring.com/search?q=text,
    is a search for \"text\". 120 families are returned, (a feat unto itself, IMHO).
    Then poke on the \"2\" to get to the second page. \r\n\r\nI see \"Search on '50'\"...
    and two questionable text faces... what do you see?\r\n\r\nJH>...browser makers
    are already adamant that the EULA constitutes the source of permissions or prohibitions
    and that they will not be responsible\r\n\r\nSo I'm not sure why you're asking
    about woff restrictions at all. I think, it would be best to say something like:\r\n\r\nWeb
    authors are expected to make adequate efforts to ensure that the font license
    corresponds to the intended web use. It SHOULD NOT be assumed that embedding permissions
    in the font\u2019s OS/2 table, fsType field, (generally for PDF document embedding
    permissions), correspond to permission for use of the font on the web. A font\u2019s
    fsType, which may be contained in a WOFF file, will not affect load behavior in
    user agents and will not affect whether tools produce a WOFF file from an OpenType
    font. \r\n\r\nThat seems clear to me, and from a journalistic point of view, puts
    the main point first.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-14 14:07:10'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: David- Thank you... you just found a bug in my search code. Appreciate the
    poking.
  created: '2010-05-14 14:48:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "You are welcome. Now how much do your fonts cost? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-14 16:48:05'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: "@dberlow\r\n> A new fsType. Wow. Is that really in the scope? Can it have
    a \"do not convert to SVG\" too? How about \"don't convert from WOFF\"? ...from
    SVG?\r\n\r\nThe charter is explicit that modifications to OFF/OT/TT are not in
    scope. The WebFonts WG cannot and will not modify those specifications.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-14 22:06:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: As Chris points out, modifications to the OT/OFF spec are not within the scope
    of the WOFF working group charter. On the other hand, they're within scope of
    people who make fonts.
  created: '2010-05-15 00:11:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\r\nCL> The WebFonts WG cannot and will not modify those [OFF/OT/TT] specifications.\r\n\r\nThus
    if as John says is done, the other formats are slain, what's left for the WG?
    \r\n\r\nAfter all, if the WOFF has meta data added to it, the WebFonts WG will
    either be; modifying those specifications by edict, or demanding that WOFF conversion
    tools do it.\r\n\r\nJH>...they're within scope of people who make fonts.\r\n\r\nThat's
    not very encouraging. Most people who make fonts for the web are not on the WG.\r\n\r\nSii>You're
    about two years too late\r\n\r\nLol... You think! \r\n\r\nThis I wrote in September
    of 2008 to a W3C member who queried \"What Do You Want!?\":\r\n\r\nI want a well-thought-out
    plan from where we are to where we need to be, executed in stages of advancement
    that make sense for the user community. As a repurposed piece of ignored technology
    made originally to compete with PDF, EOT is not a stage of advancement...\r\n\r\nI
    want LINKING bits in the Open Font Format, before web font linking goes any further.
    I can't believe people are just trying to repurpose embedding bits, which, from
    a licensing and end user licensing point of view, is a big deal, I think. [this
    evolved shortly after Sept 08 into EPAR]\r\n\r\nI want to be able to license url-to-site,
    pointing to fonts by their trademarked or custom names, with web linking permissions
    specially for the purpose. I want to be able to establish a cascade of licensing
    possibilities from a link of a single font to a single page on a single computer,
    to a blanket license for a series of web-proofed families for all-time use in
    all-web space. [this evolved shortly after Sept 08 into EPAR]\r\n\r\nI want the
    web designer to be able to query the user's device and OS environment as part
    of CSS, like Media Query, but including the rendering method. This, 'Chase Query'
    would provide detailed enough information so that letters, coming from fonts,
    linked by url, could get back to being things (optimized for a user's environment
    if possible and desired), and not pictures of things, (one digital outline font
    for all and any user's linking to said 'font'...\r\n\r\nI want browsers to concentrate
    on user agent-ing, (cookies, bookmarks, avatars, font preferences and passwords),
    and leave network agent-ing, (like font technology filtering) alone, and leave
    typography up to the user in a consistent way from browser-to-browser. We users,
    do not need browser wars over font linking/use, I think.\r\n\r\n...not all of
    this is W3C territory, I know.\r\n\r\n(End Quote) \r\n\r\nI've learned a lot more
    about the web since then, but not much has changed. \r\n\r\nAnd Simon, I recognized
    then that deprecation of OT and EOT support was not going to happen soon, which
    also supports the need for meta data in the OT font format, as OT is a web standard
    until everyone says otherwise, and must contain WOFF of EOT-containable permission
    data.\r\n\r\nBut instead of fixing this before rushing OFF off to ISO for the
    web, MS clearly showed it wanted otherwise. So now, the W3C is trying to change
    the OT specification.\r\n\r\nI don't think it should be entirely unclear to everyone
    by now, that there is a problem with not enough change to the input and too much
    change to the output from 1994 to now.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-15 13:53:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, the W3C is *not* trying to change the OT specification. As Chris Lilley
    and I have both pointed out, changing the OT or OFF specs is outside the scope
    of the W3C webfonts working group.\r\n\r\nMy point about it being within the scope
    of the people who make fonts is that the OT/OFF specs can be changed independently
    of the W3C webfonts standard. They can be changed to add new embedding bits; they
    can be changed to add an epar table. Or they can be left just as they are. The
    standardisation of WOFF provides a new point of reference that needs to be taken
    into account when considering such changes in future.\r\n\r\nWhat the webfonts
    working group is doing is formalising the WOFF spec -- a process that involves
    Erik and Tal and Jonathan K. --, and writing a conformance specification. In other
    words, making a formal standard out of this file format. Part of the function
    of the conformance specification is to state how WOFF implementations may, should
    or must relate to other standards, including OFF. It is within this context that
    I've argued that clarification needs to be made that the existing fsType embedding
    bits do not constitute permission to use a font on the web. I've argued this because
    of you, David: because you made a good case that EOT's repurposing of the embedding
    bits was a bad idea that muddied the distinction between document embedding and
    web serving. I agree with you.\r\n\r\nI threw out the idea of a new, WOFF creation
    bit after Vlad suggested that existing embedding bit 1 might relate to WOFF creation,
    and would hence provide a means for a font maker to signal that a given font should
    not be converted to WOFF. I only suggested that a new bit would be better because
    there would be issues with using the existing bit at the intersection of a web
    served font and document embedding, i.e. when someone prints a web page to a PDF.
    If there isn't any interest from font makers in having a technical mechanism to
    prevent creation of a WOFF file from a given font, that's fine. The WOFF conformance
    clarification can simply state that all the existing fsType embedding bits are
    irrelevant to WOFF.\r\n\r\nHow's the epar table spec coming along?"
  created: '2010-05-15 17:39:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">How's the epar table spec coming along?\r\n\r\nIt needs more input at least.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-18 12:32:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "From http://www.w3.org/Submission/WOFF/\r\n\r\n\"Any TrueType/OpenType/Open
    Font Format file can be losslessly converted to WOFF for Web use (subject to licensing
    of the font data);...\" \r\n\r\nUnderstood. \r\n\r\n\"...once decoded by a user
    agent, the WOFF font will display identically to the original desktop font from
    which it was created.\"\r\n\r\nNot understood. What is trying to be conveyed here?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-19 11:25:16'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "<em>\"...once decoded by a user agent, the WOFF font will display identically
    to the original desktop font from which it was created.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Not
    understood. What is trying to be conveyed here?</em>\r\n\r\nThat converting a
    font to WOFF format does alter the underlying font data, so the font reconstituted
    by browsers will render the same way the initial font would.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 14:50:24'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "Argh.  Typing at strange hours:\r\n\r\n<em>That converting a font to WOFF
    format does <strong>not</strong> alter the underlying font data...</em>"
  created: '2010-05-19 15:39:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So the way it's written should reflect that. There is no single \"display\"
    to be associated with a \"desktop font\", except perhaps arguably where a 1:1
    correspondence of pixels-to-units per em is reached. This will rarely if ever
    be reached in web use, so it's quite misleading to suggest that the two fonts
    will display identically. In addition, this assumes that unlike EOT and Cufon
    toolers, WOFF toolers will be constrained from scaling fonts during conversion.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps...\"once decoded by a user agent, the WOFF font will behave identically
    to the input font from which it was created\" might be clearer?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-19 21:31:27'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Perhaps...\"once decoded by a user agent, the WOFF font will behave
    identically to the input font from which it was created\" might be clearer?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's an improvement. I think you could just as adequately say, \"... will <strong>display</strong>
    identically to the input font from which it was created,\" since I think the point
    is that it will look the same."
  created: '2010-05-19 22:15:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...so it's quite misleading to suggest that the two fonts will
    display identically. In addition, this assumes that unlike EOT and Cufon toolers,
    WOFF toolers will be constrained from scaling fonts during conversion.</em>\r\n\r\nA
    WOFF file is a container for a font, so in terms of WOFF we're talking about identical
    display between the font that goes into the container and the font that comes
    out of the container. If a tool is performing some scaling or other conversion
    on a font <em>before</em> putting that font into the container, then that's independent
    of the WOFF standard, which only cares about the container and what is in it,
    not what happened to the contents before they were put into the container.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that using the term 'input font' would be make this clearer and avoid confusion
    over the possible relationship of a modified input font to some upstream 'original
    desktop font'."
  created: '2010-05-19 22:52:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. I'm really enjoying the Tangier headlines.
  created: '2010-05-19 22:54:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "A fascinating read 8 months later.MS and Apple beat WOFF senseless with their
    decisions, and I got blamed last week? Beginning next week, we'll all be able
    to write font stacks with but 2 formats, ttf and eot! The epar is waaaaay more
    useful  than a WOFF. And despite the fact that the fonts WG has no charter to
    chage OT, never did, the WOFF FAQ is approximately 87% dependent of OT for it's
    reasons for being, and there's movement afoot to push that to 90%? .\r\n\r\nP.S.
    I'll pass the Tangiers compliment on John, bet you can't wait for Tangiers RE!"
  created: '2011-02-06 17:55:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Say-Whutt? \r\nWhat-you talkin' 'bout, David?"
  created: '2011-02-06 18:08:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Beginning next week, we'll all be able to write font stacks with but 2 formats,
    ttf and eot!\r\n\r\nLike Chris, I'm not sure what else you're referring to but
    the above is true. WOFF is just a kind of sanctioned substitute for EOT. It's
    useful for it's native compression - if you don't have gzip as an option - but
    nothing else that I'm aware of.\r\nTTF is more universally supported."
  created: '2011-02-06 18:40:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think that David believes that web designers only need to link to TTF (for
    all recent browsers) and EOT (for the only old ones that matters) so there''s
    no point to WOFF? '
  created: '2011-02-06 20:08:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Fascinating read, this thread, 8 hours later...\r\n\r\nSii, the \"David believes\"
    stuff,<em><strong> has gotten really old.</em></strong>"
  created: '2011-02-06 20:43:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The truth is out there...\r\r[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CaptureBelieve_3677.PNG]\r\r:-)"
  created: '2011-02-06 21:33:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wow! Corporate enthusiasm of the fourth kind, part 5,423.\r\n\r\nWhat DB
    wants to believe next, is that MS does not want CSS font stacks to explode in
    complexity. Can you even think that far?"
  created: '2011-02-06 23:24:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Beginning next week, we'll all be able to write font stacks with
    but 2 formats, ttf and eot</em>\r\n\r\nAnd -- IE backwards compatibility aside
    -- in the not too distant future you will be able to write font stacks with only
    one format, WOFF, which is the only format on which the TTF and EOT browser camps
    were able to agree and, hence, the only available basis for interoperability.
    That WOFF also provides in-format compression, is the preferred licensing format
    for most of your colleagues, and in no way interferes with EPAR or any other custom
    font table (indeed, EPAR content could also be included in the WOFF private metadata),
    is either icing or cake depending on one's priorities. Either way, it's the right
    thing to do and a tasty way to do it."
  created: '2011-02-07 04:01:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "This is neither here nor there, but Opera announced that the most recent
    release supports WOFF. What's confusing me is that on Win7, XP, and on Mac, I
    cannot get it to work. I've built the WOFF using three different tools. And they
    all work fine on other user agents.\r\n\r\nI'm beginning to suspect it's a hoax
    - an in-joke, and that they're waiting to see who notices! (This part is pertinent
    to the discussion.) Because unless you're specifically testing for it, nobody
    would even notice that the WOFF file is not the file being displayed in the browser.
    In the font stack, it's almost always alongside a TTF of the same typeface. (In
    my tests, Opera skips the WOFF and takes the TTF or SVG. And it will not take
    the WOFF, even if it's the only font in the stack.)\r\n\r\nFrom the point of view
    of some implementers and authors, WOFF is seen as nothing more than a pain in
    the butt and an intrusion: things are complicated enough and EOT and TTF cover
    all the bases.\r\n\r\nI don't know what effect this will have over the long haul,
    but once web authors get used to something - in this case, serving TTF files,
    it's a very long time before practices change - if ever.\r\n\r\nApple sure hasn't
    rushed to get on the bandwagon."
  created: '2011-02-07 17:09:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> indeed, EPAR content could also be included in the WOFF private metadata),
    is either icing or cake depending on one's priorities. Either way, it's the right
    thing to do and a tasty way to do it.\r\n\r\nJohn, it sounds good, but with the
    spread and permanence of ttf, it was never a great idea to add md anywhere but
    there. Never was, never will be."
  created: '2011-02-07 17:50:32'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'Regarding Opera: WOFF is said to be supported by <a href="http://www.opera.com/docs/specs/presto27/"
    target="_blank">Presto 2.7 Milestone 81</a>. The current Opera 11.01 is using
    the older "Presto/2.7.62". (Thanks to Ralf Herrmann.)'
  created: '2011-02-07 18:26:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kl\r\n\r\nAhhh, vaporware! Thanks, Cool Hand. Thanks Ralf.\r\nI think the
    hoax angle would have been more fun, though!\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-02-07 18:47:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...WOFF is seen as nothing more than a pain in the butt and an intrusion...\r\n\r\nGood
    point, but not quite a 'pain'! It's much more like \"baby windows made a doo doo
    in it's pants trying to render text?\" don't worry we will fix it. Then, \"baby
    windows made a doo doo in it's pants on a font format?\" don't worry, we will
    have a nice long WG and baby windows will be happy. Then \"baby windows made a
    doo doo in it's pants trying to do companion styles consistently?\" we can fix
    it in the CSS. Soon \"baby windows will make a doo doo in it's pants trying to
    do kernig?\" Then  \"baby windows makes a doo doo in it's pants trying to do small
    caps?\" how hairy should one build web sites just to dam the doo doo, is becoming
    less interesting with each passing iPad app. but still we try;)\r\n\r\nWindows
    is trying to make doo doo on our gasps now so I have to go find out, no more play
    with baby windows, it's changing time;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-09 22:49:34'
date: '2010-04-20 01:42:09'
node_type: forum
title: WOFF submission accepted/published by W3C

---
