---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: Does Win XP have font smoothing (not standard greyscale, neither cleartype)
  turned off by default? Every computer running Win XP I've seen have had it turned
  off, and the owners usually don't even know you can change the settings. The rendering
  samples from Typekit and likes are quite misleading if this is the default setting.
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "On XP, the usual default setting is 'Standard' font smoothing. What this
    means is that the rasteriser applies font smoothing as specified in the font gasp
    table. Typically, this results in aliased text sizes at which main stems are fitted
    to a single pixel thickness, and greyscale antialiasing kicking in at the size
    at which those stems jump to two pixels. Often, greyscaling will also be turned
    on at very small sizes e.g. <9 ppem, for which hints are not provided. A typical
    text face will have gasp table settings something like this:\r\n\r\n<9 ppem =
    antialiasing only\r\n9\u201318 ppem = hinting only (aliased)\r\n>19 = hinting
    and antialiasing\r\n\r\nNote that this applies specifically to TrueType fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    say \u2018usual default\u2019 because it is possible for an OEM distributor, such
    as a computer manufacturer shipping a machine with Windows pre-installed, to set
    different defaults."
  created: '2010-04-21 20:29:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Also IE7 and IE8 force on CT on Windows XP. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-21 21:39:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The computers I have seen have been running Firefox and Google Chrome, but
    I guess IE applies to the general mass.\r\n\r\nJohn: I googled it before I posted
    and a few blogs claimed XP have font smoothing off by default, but I don\u2019t
    necessary trust them. Do you have another source?"
  created: '2010-04-22 07:31:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Every XP system I ever had came with Standard font smoothing on by default.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    one thing you need to be aware of when reading e.g. support forum questions about
    this is that if users are looking at typical text sizes with Standard font smoothing
    turned on, they're not going to see any smoothing in most cases because the typical
    font gasp table turns off smoothing at those sizes. This is confusing for a lot
    of users, who don't understand that smoothing is size specific in the Standard
    mode; whereas in ClearType mode it applies to all sizes."
  created: '2010-04-22 18:32:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Does Win XP have font smoothing (not standard greyscale, neither cleartype)
    turned off by default? \r\n\r\nYes for text.\r\n\r\n>Every computer running Win
    XP I've seen have had it turned off...\r\n\r\nAt most common text type sizes most
    XP users have aliased type by default.\r\n\r\n>Also IE7 and IE8 force on CT on
    Windows XP.\r\n\r\nApplications forcing the user into ClearType, is this regular
    XP or only after Service Pack upgrades? \r\nAnd also, with the SP upgrades does
    the rendering ever change or is it always the \"first\" ClearType for XP users?\r\n\r\n>Every
    XP system I ever had came with Standard font smoothing on by default.\r\n\r\nBut
    for text, there's really no difference between Standard and None to the user.
    Maybe that's why it's confusing. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-22 23:13:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But for text, there's really no difference between Standard and None
    to the user. Maybe that's why it's confusing.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly so."
  created: '2010-04-23 03:03:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Yeah. This is really confusing. I just saw FF Tisa at text size (14 px) on
    the computer in question. OS: Win XP, browser: Firefox. It looked horrible. Some
    stems were 2 px wide, some only 1, and it had lots of black spots all over. Meanwhile
    Georgia/Verdana were sharp(pixelated), but didn\u2019t have any of the wierd artifacts
    Tisa had. Why is that? I thought the real difference with Georgia/Verdana was
    the hinting, but Tisa is hinted as well isn\u2019t it?"
  created: '2010-04-23 09:18:46'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "its likely that Tisa has hinting, but may not have x-direction hints to control
    the stem weights under black and white conditions. That would explain the different
    stroke weights. \r\n\r\nsee\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/TrueTypeHintingWhy.mspx\r\n\r\nWhen
    I look at FF Tisa Web Pro on Typekit, it appears to be rendered in Greyscale under
    Firefox on Win XP, which would suggest that the GASP table is set to use greyscale
    at smaller sizes. There may be a difference between Tisa and Tisa Web Pro?"
  created: '2010-04-23 12:19:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The site I looked at used FF Tisa Web Pro from Typekit, just to be clear about
    that.
  created: '2010-04-23 12:51:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I thought the real difference with Georgia/Verdana was the hinting\r\n\r\nActually
    not, as their popularity on the Mac attests. Fortunately, Tisa will always look
    pretty good on the Mac at 14 regardless of what Windows does, (so far). \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    the difference between a $20,000 hinting job and a $500 hinting job, is not likely
    to end up on a font name anywhere, unless we start giving radically long font
    names. \r\n\r\nEPAR anyone?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-23 13:00:53'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "What is the difference, David? And a typeface called \u201CXxx Web Pro\u201D
    should IMHO work on the web."
  created: '2010-04-23 14:31:07'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "Frank, can you tell me how your XP system is set? If you do the following\r\n\r\nTo
    activate ClearType in Windows XP right click on the desktop and select 'Properties',
    select the 'Appearance' tab and press the 'Effects\u2026' button. Check the tick
    box next to the words 'Use the following method to smooth edges of screen fonts;'
    and select 'ClearType' from the drop down box. Close the Effects dialog by clicking
    Okay and click 'Apply' to complete the process.\r\n\r\nif 'Use the following method
    to smooth edges of screen fonts button is not selected, you will most likely see
    the uneven stem widths. if you choose 'Use the following method to smooth edges
    of screen fonts, then choose 'standard' you will see Greyscale, and if you choose
    ClearType, you will see ClearType. \r\n\r\nthe uneven stem widths, is a lack of
    x-direction hints to control stams, so it looks like the font is not otimised
    for black and white. "
  created: '2010-04-23 15:38:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Frank, can you tell me how your XP system is set? \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    we can't do that for the web in html. Can you find out why? \r\nI mean, You can
    find out how Frank is Set, but that doesn't really help with \"the web.\"\r\n\r\n>And
    a typeface called \u201CXxx Web Pro\u201D should IMHO work on the web.\r\nAgreed,
    we'll keep the word \"web\" our of your font names ;)\r\n\r\nAnd then there's
    this...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TisaSize_3835]\r\n...which has
    me scratching my head.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-23 15:51:01'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: the fontshop website for ff tisa, is displaying prerendered bitmaps, probably
    generated in photoshop, hense the greyscale. you can stop scratching now, unless
    its nits ;-0
  created: '2010-04-23 15:59:23'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "Who is using black and white rendering nowadays? Those who use a system that\u2019s
    older than Windows XP (which came out in 2001!) or manually deactived smoothing.
    Do you expect that a foundry will invest thousands of <em>$20,000 hinting jobs</em>
    for prehistoric environments? Not even Microsoft \u2018C\u2019 fonts are targeted
    for this rendering method. Georgia and Verdana are, of course, since it was the
    standard when they were released."
  created: '2010-04-23 16:17:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Mike, I know how to change the settings. That\u2019s not why I\u2019m asking."
  created: '2010-04-23 16:35:27'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'ok well the only answer I have then is what Ivo says above, that the cost
    is too high to target black and white, and thats why you are seeing the uneven
    stems. I think your setting, if its set to no smoothing at all on XP is unusual. '
  created: '2010-04-23 16:48:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Ivo: According to David\u2019s post XP does have smoothing off by default
    at text sizes, and XP is pretty big still, isn\u2019t it? 57.8% in March this
    year according to W3Schools.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t expect anything. I\u2019m just
    trying to figure out how to work with web fonts as a designer."
  created: '2010-04-23 16:56:43'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: Actually, font smoothing is enabled on XP by default. It is up to the designer
    of the font to set the GASP table to tell the system when to enable Greyscale
    for a particular font. In the case of Verdana and Georgia, the GASP is set to
    disable greyscale at reading sizes, as John mentioned above. You can set the fonts
    GASP table to always render in greyscale, when standard font smoothing is enabled,
    if that is what you consider best.
  created: '2010-04-23 17:10:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank: <em>According to David\u2019s post XP does have smoothing off by default
    at text sizes</em>\r\n\r\nCorrection: by default, XP allows the font to determine
    the size at which greyscale antialiasing is turned on, so while in practice this
    most often means that text sizes are aliased in fact it is font-specific."
  created: '2010-04-23 19:16:15'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: could have sworn I just said that. :-!
  created: '2010-04-23 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">XP is pretty big still....57.8% in March this year...\r\n\r\nBut Simon says
    it's really only 20%. \r\n\r\n...which has me Scratching My Head II.\r\n\r\nBut
    back in Scratching My Head I:\r\nVerdana is as big as one can make a font, and
    set solid \"j\" just about crashes into itself, ya see.\r\nIt composes 6 lines
    in an inch, as any font should at 12 point on 12 points, ya see.\r\n\r\nOne could
    not compose 6 lines of Tisa (as these 2 websites show 12 point), in an inch. ya
    see.\r\n\r\nSomeone's changed the sizing somewhere? So, I can't find out what
    Frank means by 14 point, that's all.;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-23 20:38:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think 20% was with respect to IE6. '
  created: '2010-04-23 21:05:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@David: \r\nI\u2019m Scratching My Head III. The website were I saw FF Tisa
    in use (a different website than www.typekit.com) had the text set a 14 px size.
    That\u2019s really nothing to worry about though, I\u2019m more interested in
    knowing if I can trust \u201Cweb fonts\u201D to look like they should, and moreover:
    to look like the reseller claims it does. I\u2019ve seen three XP computers in
    just a couple of weeks with very different rendering than what Typekit shows.
    \r\n\r\nLet\u2019s break it down:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Font smoothing is either off
    or on in the OS (I have to count from XP and up, where it\u2019s \u201Con\u201D
    by default). <em>Can we get a clear answer regarding XP, something official?</em></li>\r\n\r\n<li>Some
    users turn this off, but I guess I shouldn\u2019t worry to much about them.</li>\r\n\r\n<li>Some
    web browsers override the OS settings (Safari on Win).</li>\r\n\r\n<li>The font
    has a GASP table that may disable smoothing at some sizes. <em>Why?</em></li>\r\n\r\n<li>The
    font might be (should be) hinted. <em>Will these hints be used at all sizes regardless
    of the GASP table?</em></li>\r\n\r\n<li>A selected few fonts (Verdana/Georgia)
    are hinted more extensively. <em>What is the difference between this and basic
    hinting (other than the price tag)?</em></li>\r\n</ol>"
  created: '2010-04-24 10:30:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>4. The font has a GASP table that may disable smoothing at some sizes.
    Why?</em>\r\n\r\nLegibility studies reliably indicate that stroke density is important
    to reading and that making some strokes grey instead of black undermines letter
    recognition. None of which should be surprising. When a stem is being represented
    by a single pixel width, black and white aliased rendering (presuming a well hinted
    producing legible bitmaps) performs better than greyscale antialiased text because
    it maintains stroke density. This is why the GASP table exists and why it is typically
    set as it is. Compare (aliased top, antialiased below):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a2aa_6344.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    contrast, ClearType antialiasing does a much better job of retaining stroke density
    due to its colour filtering technique, and of representing the true weight of
    stems in the x-direction due to its subpixel rasterisation:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/timesct_3534.png]\r\n\r\nWhich
    is why ClearType rendering ignores the GASP table settings and applies its anti-aliasing
    at all sizes.\r\n\r\nOf course, ClearType has other issues that are evident at
    lower resolutions, notably colour fringing. Which is why some users will still
    prefer 'Standard' rendering.\r\n\r\n<em>5. The font might be (should be) hinted.
    Will these hints be used at all sizes regardless of the GASP table?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    GASP table has three settings:\r\n\r\nantialiasing only\r\nhinting only (aliased)\r\nhinting
    and antialiasing\r\n\r\nGenerally speaking, the antialiasing only setting is used
    only for very small sizes, e.g. <9 ppem, or occasionally for very large sizes;
    that is, for sizes too small to produce legible b/w bitmaps and for sizes too
    large for hints to have much effect anyway.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m more interested
    in knowing if I can trust \u201Cweb fonts\u201D to look like they should...</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    should they look?"
  created: '2010-04-24 18:56:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wrote \u2018The GASP table has three settings\u2019. Actually, I suppose
    it technically has four settings, because it is also possible to turn <em>off</em>
    both antialiasing and hinting, but I can't think of a good reason why anyone would
    do that."
  created: '2010-04-24 18:59:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Of course, ClearType has other issues that are evident at lower resolutions,
    notably colour fringing. Which is why some users will still prefer 'Standard'
    rendering.\r\n\r\nWith the implication, of course, that an alternative solution
    to the all-or-nothing of ClearType might help many aliased users over the hump
    into anti-aliiasing.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m more interested in knowing if I can trust
    \u201Cweb fonts\u201D to look like they should...\r\n\r\nI can <em>see</em> \u201Cweb
    fonts\u201D only with great effort. And I can only speak for myself, but I know
    I cannot trust \u201Cweb fonts\u201D to look like they should everywhere. \r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec150/gasp.htm\">Here</a>, you
    read \"At intermediate sizes, [which is between too small to read and too big
    to need,] hinting and monochrome rendering will usually produce the best appearance\"
    \r\n\r\nBut then there is ClearType ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-25 17:44:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>With the implication, of course, that an alternative solution
    to the all-or-nothing of ClearType might help many aliased users over the hump
    into anti-aliiasing.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced that's the implication. From
    a readability perspective, I suspect a lot of users are better off with well-hinted
    aliased text than they would be with any antialiasing model that reduces stroke
    density, and that includes e.g. Apple's Quartz rendering. ClearType is the only
    antialiasing technology that does a good job of maintaining stroke density. In
    another thread recently, you suggested at \u2018to be safe, one would want a font
    where all the main stems have become 2-pixels-worth of the em\u2019, but that's
    cheating: once one is up to that kind of weight, stroke density is guaranteed
    for such stems regardless of AA method, but a) I don't think setting everything
    in Bold is the answer to screen readability and b) with anything other than ClearType
    horizontal hairlines will still turn a paler shade of readable.\r\n\r\n[There's
    a syntax error in your link to the gasp table spec, David: a trailing \" at the
    end of the URL.]"
  created: '2010-04-25 19:48:19'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: 'There is just one way to get consistent rendering accross different plattforms,
    browsers and settings today: pixel fonts.'
  created: '2010-04-26 08:53:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > [There's a syntax error in your link to the gasp table spec, David:
    a trailing \" at the end of the URL.]</cite>\r\n\r\nFixed."
  created: '2010-04-26 12:26:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> [There's a syntax error...\r\n\r\nSeems to work fine to me. \r\n\r\n>
    you suggested [] \u2018to be safe, one would want... cheating: \r\n\r\nYou must
    be trying to appeal to my NE ea' and in truth on my speed to answah, meaning I'm
    a chetah. \r\n\r\nBut then again, there's a certain sort of humorless, raw naked
    forum savagery, to snipe extra-contextually \u2014 that I suggested setting everything
    in Bold as the answer to screen readability. \r\n\r\nWhat I said on the <em><strong><a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/6981\">other thread</a></em></strong> stands,
    as advice to the question there asked. If anyone disagrees, please do so there,
    as any gentleperson might.\r\n \r\n>ClearType is the only antialiasing technology
    that does a good job of maintaining stroke density.\r\n\r\nTruth? ClearType is
    the only antialiasing technology that does a Good to Great job in y with effort
    and an Average job in x with none. By Average, I mean somewhere 1/2 way in between
    un-hinted aliased fonts and what the next guy and I are talking about. (Quartz?
    just a different kind of Average with no effort in x or y.)\r\n\r\ngferreira>
    There is just one way..: pixel fonts.\r\n\r\nWell you and I, we have 3 ways for
    any user who chooses aliased and <em>really</em> means \"high quality\" through
    color and spacing both having fidelity to the basic principles of readability:\r\na.
    pixel fonts\r\nb. fitted contours\r\nc. uncompressed hinted TT\r\n\r\nOne does
    not easily cross the color barrier with bitmaps, but if you are just to serve
    XP users B&W bitmaps, good luck! Fitted contours I can only demonstrate (Franky),
    the implications have been discussed. The third alternative for XP users is what
    Greg Hitchcock has suggested, which implies larger fonts for All Windows Users
    as, if one is determined to provide quality through uncompressed TT hints to XP
    users in aliased mode, why not for CT users as well? \r\n\r\nIt's sort of not
    completely unlike Type3 vs Type1 fonts all over again with a \"proprietary technique\"
    of no particular skill barring the way to higher quality via a compression issue,
    of all things.\r\n\r\nAnd thanks Kent! :)\r\n\r\nCheers.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 14:50:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Fitted counters?
  created: '2010-04-26 15:17:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I didn't mean to be ungentlemanly, nor humourlessly savage: it seemed
    to me that your comments in the other thread did pertain to the general issue
    of stroke density. I didn't read anything in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/69815\">this
    thread</a> that suggested that what was \u2018safe\u2019 in that context -- type
    that jumps to 2-pixel stems at reading size -- didn't apply to this discussion
    too. Sorry if I misinterpreted your comments."
  created: '2010-04-26 16:54:29'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "@Frank:\r\nLet\u2019s break it down:\r\n\r\n>>Font smoothing is either off
    or on in the OS (I have to count from XP and up, where it\u2019s \u201Con\u201D
    by default). Can we get a clear answer regarding XP, something official? \r\n\r\nJohn
    touched on this at the beginning of the thread. OEMs could set the default setting
    on their shipping machines with Windows preinstalled, in the XP timeframe.\r\n\r\n>>Some
    web browsers override the OS settings (Safari on Win). \r\nI believe that Safari
    on Windows now defaults to Windows Rendering.\r\n \r\nThe font might be (should
    be) hinted. Will these hints be used at all sizes regardless of the GASP table?
    \r\nYes\r\n\r\n>>A selected few fonts (Verdana/Georgia) are hinted more extensively.
    What is the difference between this and basic hinting (other than the price tag)?
    \r\n\r\nthe difference is in the details, as alway in high quality type design.
    Spacing is highly controlled in Verdana and Georgia, and details for example serifs
    in Georgia,are hinted in a consistent manner. Basic hinting may be good enought
    to clean up a font for screen display, but may miss out on some details that will
    ultimalty let the font down, some hinting control missing on a serif, or a crossbar
    somewhere, and this detail becomes obvious. "
  created: '2010-04-27 12:55:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Fitted counters? </cite>\r\n\r\nFrode \u2014 Fitted <em>contours,</em>
    not counters. What David means is separate drawings for each size, making specific
    individual adjustments to fit the outlines (contours) to the underlying pixel
    grid. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 13:23:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks Kent!\r\n\r\n>Basic hinting may be good enought to clean up a font
    for screen display, but may miss out on some details that will ultimalty let the
    font down, some hinting control missing on a serif, or a crossbar somewhere, and
    this detail becomes obvious.\r\n\r\nBut beyond controlling all the serifs and
    crossbars, (which I consider to be basic hinting), hints for CT require more than
    simply writing perfect instructions. It also requires testing them against the
    actual scaling and rendering to see how CT has interpreted those instructions,
    and then fiddling to make up for this non-standard interpretation. This is new
    to the process.\r\n\r\nIf one looks e.g., closely at the instructions and results
    of GS vs CT on a 12 pixel Verdana l.c. m, the issue is clearer, perhaps. The GC
    rendering shows an m that's 9 pixels wide, the CT rendering is a whopping 13 pixels!?
    Same instructions!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 13:50:14'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: 'In compatible widths ClearType the m @ 12 px is narrower as it had to match
    the black and white hinted width. I think you mean gridfitted Greyscale showing
    the m @ 9 pixels wide. In gridfit mode, the m is hinted to be narrower than the
    outline, to maintain symmetry @ 12px = m is 9 pixels in total width from left
    stem to right, with a 3 pixel white space for interior, left and right. If you
    disable hinting and just show Greyscale, you will see the m is wider. the Greyscale
    mode you are referring to, which is hinted, will never be seen at this size as
    the GASP will disable Greyscale, and only show the black and white bitmap. '
  created: '2010-04-27 14:46:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Si! But the point is that the answer to the question:\r\n\r\n> Will these
    hints be used at all sizes regardless of the GASP table?\r\n\r\n...is usually
    no. \r\n\r\nClearType makes up it's own \"mind\" according to patented secrets,
    not our instructions. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 19:21:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Si! \r\n\r\nMike? David?"
  created: '2010-04-28 05:26:41'
date: '2010-04-21 20:20:12'
node_type: forum
title: Win XP and font smoothing

---
