---
author:
  name: Adam Shubinsky
  picture: 117628
body: "I noticed that the Adobe Typblography, has announced the new font bundling
  scheme for CS5.\r\n\r\nThe details are available here:\r\n\r\n[[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2010/04/useful_details.html]]\r\n\r\nIt
  appears though that there is a new Robert Slimbach font that Adobe intends to release
  (as a registration incentive), called Adobe Text.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have any additional
  information available regarding this particular family. From the little information
  available on the Adobe type blog, it would appear to support Latin, Greek, and Cyrillic,
  and I assume that it would contain the full Adobe range of optical sizes. Nonetheless,
  it would be nice to have someone (possibly from the Adobe team) provide us with
  some insights into what else we may expect."
comments:
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Seems Yves needs to extend his epic <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/13249\">Big
    Fleischmann Bake-Off</a> \u2026 ;)"
  created: '2010-04-24 14:20:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes. I'm surprised by the statement \u2018Adobe Text can be classified as
    a Transitional design\u2019: this is very clearly a baroque typeface, so even
    in the crude classification that includes \u2018transitional\u2019 this would
    be considered oldstyle."
  created: '2010-04-24 19:21:15'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Roman seems a Minion with higher x-heigh, more counterspace and less calligraphic
    influence (especially the straight serifs). Italic resembles very much Utopia.
    Anyway, it seems to be another good work from Slimbach.
  created: '2010-04-24 21:19:52'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "I think that it would be a stretch to think of it as a Fleischmann revival\u2014it
    seems at this point to be an interpretation of sorts at best. \r\n\r\nJohn though
    is spot on, it does appear to be a Baroque typeface, and as such it should become
    a fine counterpoint to Slimbach's prior Renaissance work.\r\n\r\nAs for the \"Transitional\"
    label that adobe attached to it, I suspect that it owes more to Marketing strategies
    than to correct taxonomy. "
  created: '2010-04-25 00:02:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \"especially for longer passages of text\"\r\n\r\nNope, sorry. The x-height
    is too big.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday, learn about the Armenian Genocide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 00:24:27'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nA side-by-side comparison of Adobe Text and Minion.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdobeText_versus_Minion_4435.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 05:11:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK. And?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 05:21:58'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "\"Adobe Text\" is such a generic and overreaching name. Why not at least
    call it \"Adobe Serif\", so the sans-serif counterpart -- the \"successor\" of
    Myriad, which I now blind assume Slimbach has also started working on -- can be
    named \"Adobe Sans\"?\r\n\r\n\"Adobe Text\" suggests that this will instantly
    replace Minion as Adobe's own CI serif typeface -- possibly for the eternity?
    InDesign CS5 has reportedly changed its default font from Times New Roman to Minion
    -- why not Adobe Text?\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 11:37:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...so the sans-serif counterpart -- the \"successor\" of Myriad ... can
    be named \"Adobe Sans\"?</em>\r\n\r\nI would imagine that will be named \"Adobe
    Font\" :-)\r\nNot to be confused with Neville Brody's Typeface One, &c."
  created: '2010-04-25 12:13:37'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I see more Kis styling than Fleischmann, myself. But yes, I agree with John,
    classification-wise, this would be late oldstyle (perhaps Dutch oldstyle or Baroque
    oldstyle, depending upon one\u2019s chosen taxonomy).\r\n\r\nLooks solid. I\u2019ll
    be interested to see better and more extensive samples.\r\n\r\nI do predict some
    potential confusion from the unfortunately generic name. \r\n\r\n<em>\u201CWhat\u2019s
    that text set in?\u201D</em>  \r\n\r\n\u201CThe text is text in in design.\u201D
    \r\n\r\n<em>\u201CWhat?\u201D</em> \r\n\r\n\u201CI said, the text is set in Text
    in InDesign.\u201D \r\n\r\n<em>\u201COh.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nAnd can we look forward
    to a full range of optical sizes \u2014 Text Caption, Text Text, Text Subhead,
    and Text Display?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 13:00:09'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI guess that my point was that I am not sure if the typeface's
    x-height is a problem. I don't believe that the x-height variable alone is a good
    enough indicator to determine extended-text suitability. \r\n\r\nThere are a few
    typefaces with a rather large x-height, that work very well (when used correctly)
    in extended text settings. Iowan is one example that comes to mind.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 14:00:31'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I was not aware that a large x-height makes the font inadequate for long
    texts. Surely, very large x-height may cause this \u2013but it seems that any
    \"very\" measure in type design causes the same.\r\n\r\nSome fonts with a x-height
    higher than Minion are very good for long texts, in my opinion \u2013Utopia, Iowan,
    Lyon, Publico and Glosa, for example.\r\n\r\nMaybe am I missing some obvious point
    in this matter?"
  created: '2010-04-25 15:16:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In my view it depends on the point size. Something like Utopia is best for
    newspapers, and was in fact designed as such. But a newspaper face is not a \"versatile
    workhorse\".\r\n\r\nA large x-height takes away from the extenders, which are
    much more important to readability than might seem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 15:48:43'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks, hrant. I'm developing a [[http://typophile.com/node/67787|font]] for
    technical texts (scientific, legal and so on). As it has a large x-height maybe
    it will be better suited for magazines and newspapers and less for books.
  created: '2010-04-25 17:02:36'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant, I am curious, is this extender importance due to the word shape (Bouma)
    theory of reading? \r\n\r\nBy word shape I mean the idea the the external outline
    (envelope) of the words assists us in achieving swift word recognition during
    the reading process."
  created: '2010-04-25 17:26:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Igor, you might want to consider just what is meant by "large x-height". The
    Computer Modern typeface, for instance, is considered to have a large x-height.
    It also has very prominent serifs on its extenders, which can go some way to remedying
    any problem that may be associated with "short" extenders.
  created: '2010-04-25 17:27:53'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks, Nick. My project uses somewhat short extenders, so I guess it falls
    into the not-so-legible-for-long-texts group \u2013although this was not my initial
    purpose. :)"
  created: '2010-04-25 17:43:23'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Based on the minute snippet here, I''d say this could be by far Robert''s
    best work yet, and the modest name to me denotes the very serious attitude I think
    I detect, especially knowing Robert''s great difficulties with font naming. Robert
    (with whom I have not spoken in a decade!) told me over a hundred times that Times
    was his favorite typeface. I''m guessing that this is his mature effort to come
    to grips with it, philosophically if not literally. This could be very intriguing. '
  created: '2010-04-25 18:01:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Maybe it would be better named "Adobe Encyclopedia." I agree with Hrant that
    a large x-height makes straight text not set at a small size harder to read. It
    also makes caps-small caps a bit awkward, and the old style numbers (aka text
    figures) harder to draw -- not that Slimbach isn't up to that task.
  created: '2010-04-25 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, pretty much. Just like how all-caps is harder to read (except, tellingly,
    when the point size is extremely small).\r\n\r\nIgor: Palimpsest is handsome (reminding
    me of Slimbach's early work) but I would indeed classify it as a magazine face.
    BTW, I think the descenders should be relatively a bit shorter than the ascenders.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 19:44:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Yes. I would imagine that ''Text'' is intended for relatively small text.
    And I remember that Robert admired the metal era use of Times by the Encylopaedia
    Britannica. And who knows? Maybe the x-height will change on the optical axis?
    I belong to the Mono metal school of thought, which suggests that x-height increases
    as size of the design gets smaller. But there is the postwar Lino theory that
    display faces should have very high x-height and that small text faces need a
    low x-height -- handily illustrated by the Palatino/Aldus/etc. group of fonts.
    I''ve never known what to make of that. Perhaps it was Zapf''s influence? '
  created: '2010-04-25 20:21:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Are you sure Lino thought that? In the case of Palatino vs Aldus, the former
    was not supposed to be a text face at all (and in reality only really works well
    small and tracked looser). And when it comes to display, choice of proportions
    moves firmly into the realm of style only.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 20:27:57'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant, I have a slight problem with the assertion that x-height bears any
    relevance to the readability of text. Perhaps we subjectively believe that we
    read typefaces of modest x-height better, because those are the typefaces that
    we are most accustomed to. \r\n\r\nIf extenders were important in facilitating
    the reading process, would it not follow that alphabetic systems that have no
    extenders or very few extenders (e.g. square Hebrew), would inherently be less
    readable?\r\n\r\nAs for the argument that all-caps are harder to read, that may
    be true for the modern reader who is not accustomed to reading text in all caps
    to begin with. I doubt though that the Romans were slow readers, and it would
    seem logically reasonable to expect that training someone for a certain period
    of time, to read in all caps could, in theory, yield reading speeds similar or
    identical to lowercase reading, for that individual. Although I will check the
    research literature later today to see if there was any empirical research done
    on this particular subject.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, I have just finished a book
    set in Plantin (which isn't shy on x-height), and found it to be very readable
    and inviting."
  created: '2010-04-25 21:37:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Precisely my point, Hrant. Aldus, the low x-height typeface, was thought
    best for text, and Palatino, the higher x-height typeface, was thought best for
    larger sizes. The Hunt Roman has an even higher x-height than Palatino, and it
    is only available in 14, 18, and 24 points. '
  created: '2010-04-25 21:43:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I think the relative proportions of Palatino to Aldus have more to
    do with fashions in display typography than what was \u2018thought best for larger
    sizes\u2019.\r\n\r\nThe steps necessary to achieve optimal readability at various
    smaller sizes are to a large extent determined by optics and output medium. At
    display sizes, what one does is more a matter of style. The lighter, smaller x-height
    display types to which are refer are a particular, elegant or classical style
    of display typography. Palatino is something more rugged and when used as intended
    -- not least in Zapf's own books -- always manages to evoke the 1950s for me.
    And then, of course, there are Koch's display types, which demolish any notion
    of linear relationship of proportions across increasing sizes."
  created: '2010-04-25 23:12:15'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, John, when I say 'thought best' that is shorthand for Lino's promotional
    material, and of course you are right that fashion is a factor. But - - - Palatino
    evoking the 50s ? ? ? Zapf thought his designs were for eternity (perhaps, even,
    deriving from the wellsprings of eternity!), and quite beyond dating to a specific
    decade, much less a century. He would be very angry indeed! Nevertheless, I think
    you are right. I don't see Palatino as you do, but I certainly see Optima as pure
    early 60s - - modernity's last innocent expression of belief in itself, the UN
    when it was still supposed to work, and before bloat. Does your view of Palatino
    embrace its many variants, such as Hunt and Zapf Renaissance? Doesn't Aldus have
    an earlier feeling? Anywhere from Thomas Mann . . . back to Ronald Firbank? \r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of fashion, what I like about Robert's new face is fashion's apparent absence.
    Again with the proviso that I am only judging from the tiny snippet here, it seems
    to be as typographical as possible, all mannerism purged, all ego ablated - -
    an intelligent effort by a superb technician to achieve profoundly utilitarian
    neutrality. "
  created: '2010-04-26 00:57:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...profoundly utilitarian neutrality...</em>\r\n\r\nO brave new world,
    that has such fonts in it!"
  created: '2010-04-26 02:57:12'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Henry\r\n\r\nAdobe Serif and Adobe Sans already exit\u2026 they are the
    \u2018fallback\u2019 fonts for Reader and Acrobat."
  created: '2010-04-26 12:24:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well Nick, one can but hope! Until proven otherwise, it's <em>possible.</em>\r\n\r\nA
    note on the genesis of Adobe Serif: Fred Brady told me it was adapted from PMN
    Caecilia. I have never compared the two to test this. \r\n\r\nAm I alone in finding
    @So-and-so a tacky form of address? It makes me cringe every time I see it. "
  created: '2010-04-26 13:07:55'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: '@Bill, you are not alone.'
  created: '2010-04-26 13:31:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Slimbach is a fabulous designer of text types, so it is dangerous to pronounce
    before seeing this in use. I do wonder about the big-eyed, relatively large e,
    though. '
  created: '2010-04-26 13:46:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[Bill Troop]: @So-and-so a tacky form of address?\r\n\r\nRegarding \"@\"
    used to identify the author of a quote.\r\nWhat is the correct usage (as documented
    in literary standards guides)?\r\nWithout looking it up, and not being an editor,
    I'm assuming it's square brackets around the person's name, all in roman, foolowed
    by a colon, as above. Am I right?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n<em>Well Nick, one can but
    hope!</em>\r\n\r\nBill, you missed the irony, and the literary allusion (Huxley).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 16:57:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>...and the literary allusion (Huxley).</em>\r\n\r\nActually Shakespeare,
    from whom Huxley got the line:\r\n\r\n<em>O, wonder!\r\nHow many goodly creatures
    are there here!\r\nHow beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,\r\nThat has such
    people in't!</em>\r\n\r\nMiranda, <em>The Tempest,</em> Act 5 Scene 1. "
  created: '2010-04-26 17:19:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On readability and the x-height, I think this is a very difficult issue to
    pronounce on, because reading comfort of a text block is influenced so much by
    type size, measure, and leading. I do think that in book type settings, with wide
    measures, short ascenders are sub-optimal. But in short measured, tightly leaded
    columns common in newspapers and magazines shorter ascenders seem to work all
    right. But you could also argue that these settings are sub-optimal for the sake
    of economy. \r\n\r\nThe most insightful comment on this I have read on this is
    Walter Tracy's. He wrote that \"for my own taste, if x to h is a proportion of
    about 6 to 10, a face will look refined and be pleasant to read. If the x-height
    is much less than that, the face may be stylish, but will be unsuitable for long
    text. A larger x-height is conducive to dullness.\" (Letters of Credit, p. 51)
    \r\n\r\nI think that current fashion for large x-height is often overdone. For
    optimal setting, large x-height may not really gain you anything, as you end up
    needing more leading for a given point size. But the need for leading also is
    influenced by how dark the type is, so I don't know of any hard and fast rules
    on this.\r\n\r\nBy the way, the Irish didn't invent word spaces, but at best revived
    them or introduced them into Latin. They are in the dead sea scrolls, many centuries
    before. "
  created: '2010-04-26 17:27:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: .
  created: '2010-04-26 17:38:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Actually Shakespeare</em>\r\n\r\nActually no.\r\nI was alluding to Huxley,
    not his source.\r\nHuxley's <em>Brave New World</em>, with its \"profoundly utilitarian\"
    engineered class-structure of cloned human drones was the ironic opposite of Shakespeare's.\r\n\r\nBut
    lest anyone get the idea I am overly critical of Adobe, I should mention that
    its invention of PostScript enabled this brave new typographic world populated
    by myriad foundries <em> ...how many godly fonts are there here, how beauteous
    fontkind is!</em>"
  created: '2010-04-26 18:10:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\"profoundly utilitarian\" sounds very useful if you are looking for a hammer,
    but of limited use otherwise.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 18:53:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, I'm an ardent opponent of the We Read Best What We Read Most mantra.
    And/so I believe vertical proportion is one of the pillars of what determines
    a font's readability.\r\n\r\n> would it not follow that alphabetic systems that
    have no extenders\r\n> or very few extenders (e.g. square Hebrew), would inherently
    be\r\n> less readable?\r\n\r\nYup. Sorry.\r\n\r\n> I doubt though that the Romans
    were slow readers\r\n\r\n1) You don't really have a basis for such doubt.\r\n2)
    Saenger's \"Space Between Words: The Origins of Silent Reading\" nicely explains
    that the invention of the wordspace (by the Irish, in the 8th century) enabled
    silent, hence high-speed, reading. So the Romans never even left home base in
    terms of reading ability.\r\n3) Remember, the Romans had a cursive, variable-height
    writing style for reading anything beyond a couple of lines on a monument.\r\n\r\n>
    I have just finished a book set in Plantin\r\n\r\nWhat point size?\r\n\r\n> Aldus,
    the low x-height typeface, was thought best for text,\r\n> and Palatino, the higher
    x-height typeface, was thought best\r\n> for larger sizes.\r\n\r\nWhat John said:
    ignore the display cut - that can be anything that style allows. Would you call
    Aldus's x-height \"small\" of its own? I wouldn't. And I'm guessing that if Zapf
    made different -text- optical sizes of Aldus, the smaller ones would have a larger
    x-height and the larger, smaller (just like Monotype, and pretty much everybody
    else).\r\n\r\n> Zapf thought his designs were for eternity\r\n\r\nOops.\r\n\r\n>
    Am I alone in finding @So-and-so a tacky form of address?\r\n\r\nOn this, I'm
    with you and Maxim. It smells like old plastic.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, assuming
    Adobe Text does have optical sizes, maybe that sample is in fact from a smaller
    size? Although the color, contrast and letterspacing don't really match the proportions
    for that...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-26 18:55:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nhttp://dis.cs.umass.edu/atal/"
  created: '2010-04-26 19:11:04'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant, you come out against the so-called \"we read best what we read most\"
    mantra, yet that mantra is fully consistent with the way our brain and mind functions
    and perceives. We <em>always</em> perceive best what we perceive most. Our brains
    are designed to operate in certain environments and to adapt to the specific features
    that may be unique to that environment. If I take a subject and force them to
    view the world up-side-down (through the use of a binocular device that flips
    the incoming signal), such a subject would, after a while, become fully adapted
    to the new image of the world and will literally come to see the world correctly.
    Similar effects have been demonstrated for other senses too, such as hearing.
    This \"mantra\" merely draws on what we already know about our cognitive faculties,
    and there is no reason to believe that the reading process is any different.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the proposition that alphabetic systems with few or no extenders are less
    readable (since they lack a proper bouma); in the absence of any (even anecdotal)
    data that demonstrates that Hebrew, Chinese, and various Indian scripts (to name
    a few) are less readable than a mixed case Latin script, or alternatively, that
    Latin script readers are more efficient and nimble readers than others\u2014such
    a proposition could be seen to be a form of script chauvinism.\r\n\r\nExtending
    on this \"chauvinism\" theme, the claim that the Irish invented word space is
    simply incorrect. As william had already mentioned, the Dead Sea Scrolls were
    written with word spacing (150 BCE ~ 70 CE). What I think that what I can add
    to his comment, is that word spacing was most likely imported into Hebrew sometime
    during the Babylonian Captivity period (i.e. sometime after 597 BCE), from a probable
    older source or tradition. \r\nWe have a general tendency in the West to view
    the world through the narrow prism of a specific historical narrative, often forgetting
    that throughout history the various cultures of the world came into direct and
    indirect contact with each other, cross-pollinating each other with ideas.\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom line is that I would like to propose that the \"common sense\" rule which
    states that a large x-height reduces readability, is overreaching. It may be true
    for a certain typeface, but untrue for another (I am not referring to extreme
    cases though, extremes by definition are rarely conducive to anything), and there
    are many other design factors that influence readability much more than x-height."
  created: '2010-04-27 02:00:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Evidence?\r\n\r\nI think the Irish monks would have seen manuscripts in
    Syriac and Hebrew, but I don't know. I also would guess that all Semitic alphabets\u2014which
    is to say, the first alphabetic scripts\u2014had word spacing, or dot separation
    of words from very early. Because they don't use vowels, picking out words in
    an unbroken stream of letters might be pretty taxing.   "
  created: '2010-04-27 02:33:05'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I have interest to learn more about objective, technical criteria about legibility.
    Do you (you = all fellow Typophilers) have references about studies on this theme?
    I think it's very hard to separate cultural heritage, common sense and technical
    criteria, but I suppose there are studies already made on this.\r\n\r\nAn example:
    William referred to Tracy's 60% rule. Is this based on historical evidence, empirical
    data, academic studies etc.? (I'm not saying this rule is valid or not, just want
    to know how rules were built.)\r\n\r\nTIA"
  created: '2010-04-27 02:52:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, we are physical beings, with certain limitations. We cannot get so
    used to anything that it becomes totally moot. Try eating grass. If you eat enough
    of it, you don't suddenly become able to sustain your life with it; you die. Cows
    on the other hand can handle it - in fact they <em>need</em> it.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    the degree to which a font can be[come] readable is not infinite. No matter how
    much you read FF Extra, it will not be a book face. The human visual system and
    cognitive mechanism have attributes. All else being equal, fonts that leverage
    these attributes are <em>inherently</em> easier to read that ones that don't.\r\n\r\n>
    such a proposition could be seen to be a form of script chauvinism.\r\n\r\nSomething
    that certainly exists, but I for one cannot be accused of. You might want to read
    my essay \"Latinization: Prevention and Cure\".\r\n\r\nThe Irish invention of
    wordspacing: I meant in the realm of Latin. Did they get the idea from another
    culture? Maybe. Evidence?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 04:09:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "The scientific literature on legibility is sparse and does not seem to have
    attracted any towering intellects. The most important modern achievements in legibility
    are not theoretical, but practical: the typefaces Verdana and Georgia. These were
    produced empirically and instinctively.\r\n\r\nThere is nothing absolute about
    Tracy's 'rule', which might just as well have been 55% or 65% or 70%, depending
    on the decade.\r\n\r\nX-height is a very loaded subject. One reason is that sociological
    factors are seldom absent from the discussion. High x-height is considered crass
    and commercial. Low x-height is considered refined, classical, tasteful, etc.
    This unproductive dialectic has been going on since long, long before the class
    (whoops, I mean x-height) wars of the 1960s. It will continue for the simple reason
    that paper has always been too expensive for publishers, and less paper can be
    used when smaller, higher x-height typefaces are employed.\r\n\r\nThe class-taste
    war elements of the discussion are what account for the over-emotional feelings
    of those on the side of lower x-heights. Indeed, it is always the low x-height
    people who are emotional. The high x-height people just laugh their way to the
    bank. \r\n\r\nThe only people who discuss x-height are people opposed to high
    x-height. The reason is that learning about x-height has been an important part
    of their aesthetic development. One of the great truths we learn as we become
    cultivated persons knowledgeable about type is that high x-height is bad, low
    is good. It is an article both of fact and faith.\r\n\r\nIt's all so damned silly!
    \r\n\r\n>\"profoundly utilitarian\" sounds very useful if you are looking for
    a hammer, but of limited use otherwise.\r\n\r\nThen I take it you regard a hammer
    to be a tool of limited use? Others would disagree. Nietzsche, for example, liked
    to philosophize with a hammer. Indeed, he even wrote a how-to guide anent. \r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 12:05:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The only people who discuss x-height are people opposed to high x-height.\r\n\r\nReally?
    I discuss it almost constantly, (some say to the point of x-heightability), \r\nyet
    I have no opposition to any x-height whatsoever.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-27 13:07:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Dash! I knew I''d get in trouble with that ''only''. '
  created: '2010-04-27 14:05:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Tracy's 60% rule. Is this based on historical evidence, empirical data,
    academic studies etc.?\r\n\r\nA lot of classical book typefaces are around this
    ratio, but they do vary by optical size\u2014which in those metal foundry days
    was the same as size, period.\r\n\r\nI expect David would say that the x-height
    should be suited to the intended use, and therefore should vary according to the
    brief. That would be my view too, except that for ideal reading comfort, period,
    I like Tracy's rule. When you cram more type on the page than is ideal, then the
    x-height needs to grow, in text size. On display type, I don't think there are
    any general rules, as it depends on the overall design of the page. On this issue,
    I admit it's hard for me to disentangle the aesthetic and readability sides of
    the question. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 14:11:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The high x-height people just laugh their way to the bank.\r\n\r\nBut the
    bank is not where people live.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 14:58:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">Tracy's 60% rule. Is this based on historical evidence, empirical data,
    academic studies etc.?\r\n\r\nIt is someone's theory based on common practice
    at the time. What  is normal workflow to achieve economy of printing combined
    with reasonable readability was more an issue of typical trade practice than anything
    empirical.\r\nI find issue with taking away the other variables.  Sans serifs
    today typically have shorter ascenders and descenders than a typical roman book
    face so it stands to reason that we would lead them more to find the sweet spot
    in leading. \r\nTo me, the only fair comparison is to measure efficiency with
    readability. An example would be to have a constant page size, margins, and line
    length but make the number of characters on a page the same.  This would level
    out the efficiency or economy of a typeface but allow the tester to set point
    size and leading in any way that would yiield the same density of text per page.
    It would be possible to set as an example, Helvetica at 9pt on 13 leading with
    Garamond at 10.5 pt on 12pt leading (assuming this would be even on efficiency)
    \ and compare the two from an ease of reading standpoint."
  created: '2010-04-27 15:14:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It is someone's theory based on common practice at the time\r\n\r\nThe ratios
    are close to a golden ratio, so perhaps \"theory\" reinforced it. I suspect, though,
    it was common practice because it looks good, and is still pretty economical,
    not because of any theory. With sans the lack of a terminal on the ascender to
    my eyes affects what looks good as far as ascender height. That flag on a serif
    ascender seems to want to fly a little higher than the pole on a sans.  "
  created: '2010-04-27 15:36:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">This would level out the efficiency or economy of a typeface but allow the
    tester to set point size and leading in any way that would yiield the same density
    of text per page. \r\n\r\nExactly. Morison observed that higher x-height requires
    more leading, which seems obvious today but wasn't always so. But how much leading
    the designer can allow will always depend on the particular economies of a specific
    publication. What is more distressing is to see so many young graphic designers
    today who have no idea about any of this as it is no longer part of their curriculum. "
  created: '2010-04-27 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"so many young graphic designers today who have no idea about any of this
    as it is no longer part of their curriculum.\"\r\n\r\nBill,\r\nYou are right.
    I would hope that an instructor of any value would see that there is a correlation
    between fitting text, economy, and readability. There must be give and take between
    acceptable variation from optimum and the bottom line.\r\nI admit that I learned
    much more about such things on the job. I was handed a given amount of text in
    typewritten manuscript and asked to end up with an economical yet printable book
    that readers would easily read or at least not object to reading. It was the typical
    layout jigsaw puzzle with some givens and some variables. This should be much
    easier to do in today's computer world than my old Haberule characters-per-pica
    calculations and blue pencil markings. We did not have the option of resetting
    everything a half point smaller in the bygone era. Todays teachers should have
    it easy with the tools available to students."
  created: '2010-04-27 18:06:10'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: ">X-height is a very loaded subject. One reason is that sociological factors
    are seldom absent from the discussion.\r\n\r\nBill, I think that your comments
    were both insightful and correct. It seems to me though that part of this argument
    can be traced to conceptual differences, viz. what the typographer envisions when
    they are thinking of <em>extended text</em>. It wouldn't surprise me if most of
    the resistance to the notion of high x-height emanates from typographers who think
    of text primarily in terms of books. Walter Tracy was certainly thinking of books
    when he made his comment about preference. Nonetheless, most printed matter today
    are not books, and Tracy's 6 to 10 proportions may very well backfire (readability
    wise) if they are applied into a column setting.\r\n\r\nWe do after all already
    apply, implicitly or explicitly, one set of typographical heuristics for book
    setting, and another for say magazine work. Therefore, perhaps some of these typographic
    \"common sense\" rules/slogans should be rephrased accordingly. Thus, let us not
    say that a \"large x-heights is not conducive to the readability of extended text\"
    but rather \"large x-height may reduce the readability of text in a book setting.\"\r\n\r\nA
    great deal of disagreement would dissipate if we increase the contextual and semantic
    precision of our intentions, otherwise we may be arguing about apples and oranges.
    \r\n\r\nI hope this makes sense."
  created: '2010-04-27 19:46:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I say leave it to the typographer to decide on a setting for the document
    at hand.\r\nAll the type designer can do is optimize the readability/legibility/whatever,
    of a font, irrespective of its x-height.\r\nIt's not like there is only one template
    for one medium, there are multiple genres in multiple media.\r\nIn any media there
    are exceptions to the norm; for instance, the newspaper <em>Frankfurter Allgemeine</em>
    has Janson for its text type."
  created: '2010-04-27 19:57:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam:\r\nCertainly -it shouldn't be a secret- optimal x-height depends on
    point size (most of all, but other factors too). That's why I asked what point
    size you used for Plantin. The main argument really is: for a given point size,
    is there such a thing as an overly-large x-height? To me that's an obvious Yes.
    The only people who don't think so are the \"readability relativists\" (the WRBWWRM
    peons) with whom it's not worth arguing about much at all.\r\n\r\n> All the type
    designer can do is optimize the\r\n> readability/legibility/whatever, of a font,\r\n>
    irrespective of its x-height.\r\n\r\nThat's decidedly false. A text font must
    be designed with at least a rough range in mind. All of a font's attributes, like
    color, letterspacing, and certainly vertical proportions, depend heavily on that
    decision.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 20:13:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "> In any media there are exceptions to the norm; for instance, the newspaper
    \r\n> <em>Frankfurter Allgemeine</em> has Janson for its text type.\r\n\r\nI am
    rather sure that the <em>Frankfurter Allgemeine</em> uses Times Ten its text type.
    Perhaps you're thinking about another German newspaper, one from outside Frankfurt?
    Frankfurt has two other dailies, but neither of them use Janson, either. The <em>Frankfurter
    Neue Presse</em> uses Sabon Next, and the <em>Frankfurter Rundschau</em> has ITC
    Charter as its text face."
  created: '2010-04-27 20:44:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>All of a font's attributes, like color, letterspacing, and certainly
    vertical proportions, depend heavily on that decision.</em>\r\n\r\nWell OK, say
    you have designed a typeface, and you produce two variants, one with small x-height,
    and one with large. How would you vary attributes such as color, letterspacing,
    and vertical proportions, between the two? Can you show samples which demonstrate
    your theory?"
  created: '2010-04-27 20:48:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Perhaps you're thinking about another German newspaper, one from outside
    Frankfurt?</em>\r\n\r\nProbably. Not sure which.\r\nA German newspaper with a
    slightly different text face <em>Die Welt</em>, Poynter Oldstyle (I checked!).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 21:12:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How would you vary attributes such as color, letterspacing,\r\n> and vertical
    proportions, between the two?\r\n\r\nColor, letterspacing and x-height are all
    inversely proportional (although not linearly) to intended point size. So darker
    color and looser spacing go hand-in-hand with a larger x-height (which, together,
    target smaller text sizes). This BTW is why Helvetica and Mrs Eaves are not really
    text faces: the former (ignoring its lack of serifs for the sake of argument)
    is too tight for its large x-height (the weight however one can vary nicely) while
    the latter (ignoring its village-idiot spacing for the sake or argument) is too
    loose for its small x-height. And adjusting tracking is no magic bullet, since
    it ruins \"boundary conditions\", like the right side of the \"r\" (especially
    in the uneven Mrs Eaves).\r\n\r\nBTW, this is not a \"theory\" - it's common practice
    among the top foundries, past and present. And it's not due much to fashion, but
    very much how humans see and read.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 21:32:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I hope this makes sense.\r\n\r\nYes, it does, and for what it's worth, I
    think the 60% suggestion is about right for most typefaces intended for immersive
    reading at 9-12 pt. I can't imagine that metal Caledonia is much lower than that,
    but I always find it annoying to read now -- the ascenders seem too high; yet
    it used to be one of the most widely used of all typefaces in the US. Again, fwiw,
    I usually increase x-height below 9 pt, and decrease it above 12 pt. "
  created: '2010-04-27 22:32:57'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Hrant, the Plantin (light) appears to have been set at 10/13. \r\n\r\nFunnily
    enough I am literally in the middle of reading the May issue of the <em>Harvard
    Business Review</em>. They changed their layout this year switching from Le Monde
    Journal to Guardian Egyptian in the process. I am finding their new layout to
    eminently readable and highly appropriate to the subject matter (even though Guardian
    Egyptian has a generous x-height).\r\n\r\nAs for the WRBWWRM peons, I am partially
    one of those\u2026 I do agree though that there are hard limits to the x-height
    continuum, and that the adaptation process is not a one way stream viz. human
    perception adjusting to glyphs (and/or words). Instead, I believe that what we
    have is a two-way feedback system in action\u2014we get accustomed to a certain
    type of input, on the one hand, but also actively seek to alter and tweak that
    very input, and make it better suit our temporal needs. \r\n\r\nPerhaps typography
    resides in the nexus between this give and take."
  created: '2010-04-27 23:45:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>BTW, this is not a \"theory\" - it's common practice among the top foundries,
    past and present.</em>\r\n\r\nEven if it could be proven to be common practice,
    the idea that \"Color, letterspacing and x-height are all inversely proportional
    (although not linearly) to intended point size\" is still, quite literally, a
    theory. I was not using the term in a derogatory manner.\r\n\r\nIs this in fact
    your theory, or have others previously formulated it?\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-27 23:52:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Adam, that makes sense I think.\r\n\r\nNick: I've arrived at it through a
    combination of observation, discussion and analysis. And by \"discussion\" I largely
    mean listening to people (both dead and living) who have been there, done that.
    Certainly the tight relationship between a font's various attributes is not rarefied
    knowledge - it's the meat & potatoes of text face design, and I can take zero
    credit for it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-28 00:56:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'For what it''s worth, Tracy developed a lot of type for newspapers, and actually
    illustrates his discussion with an example of two newspaper types. So he was not
    thinking only of text fonts for books. '
  created: '2010-04-28 02:50:53'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "William, you are right of course\u2014mea culpa."
  created: '2010-04-28 04:25:17'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > for what it's worth, I think the 60% suggestion is about right for
    most typefaces intended for immersive reading at 9-12 pt. I can't imagine that
    metal Caledonia is much lower than that</cite>\r\n\r\nBill \u2014 According to
    the MLCo master sheets, the proportion of x to h in Caledonia 10 pt is 0.5856;
    in 11 pt, it is 0.5788. I don\u2019t have the specs for 12 pt.\r\n\r\n<cite> >
    but I always find it annoying to read now</cite>\r\n\r\nBy \u201Cnow,\u201D I
    hope you mean the current digital New Caledonia, and not that you\u2019ve become
    annoyed now with metal Caledonia.\r\n\r\nFWIW, the same proportion in New Caledonia
    is 0.5687. I might presume this correlates to the original 12 pt proportion; but
    as I said, I can\u2019t verify at this time."
  created: '2010-04-28 12:32:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I might presume this correlates to the original 12 pt proportion\r\n\r\nMakes
    sense, especially since 12 has been the usual source size for digital revivals.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    working from that assumption:\r\n0.5856 / 0.5687 = ~1.03, so the x-height of the
    10pt was about 3% larger than the x-height for the 12pt. In a typical digital
    font that equates to about 15 em units, which is quite significant, especially
    when you consider we're talking about an \"intended target\" difference of only
    2pt.\r\n\r\nKent, do you have the numbers for weight and -less likely- letterspacing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-28 15:03:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant: <em>So darker color and looser spacing go hand-in-hand with a larger
    x-height (which, together, target smaller text sizes). </em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    that was always the case.\r\nIn this comparison of Times with Perpetua (both Monotype
    faces) taken from Geoffrey Dowding's <em> Factors in the Choice of Type Faces</em>,
    Wace, 1957, the Times is slightly heavier than the Perpetua, but is more tightly
    fitted. This is a feature of the angled stress of rounded letters in the old-style,
    which enables a closer fit without hot-spotting, and nothing to do with x-height.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PerpvsTimes_4637.png]"
  created: '2010-04-28 17:30:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly x-height isn't the only thing that affects decisions of color and
    spacing. Also, looking across different designs can be misleading. Not to mention
    the effects of variable printing, especially in the metal age; in this case for
    example look how uneven it all is (like the \"a\" in Perpetua).\r\n\r\nWhat you
    should look at is the various sizes of Times and Perpetua, preferably in their
    respective specimen booklets. The smaller sizes are consistently darker, looser
    and have larger x-heights.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-28 17:44:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, I'm well aware a single typeface was generally darkened and opened up
    at smaller \"optical\" sizes and the x-height enlarged, and that's a practice
    I've followed in my own type designs.\r\nThat's where your theory is strongest.\r\nBut
    when one compares different typefaces with different x-heights, as you say, other
    factors affecting colour and spacing come into play."
  created: '2010-04-28 17:50:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, but the -technical- factors that matter in a single typeface must also
    matter across typefaces. They shift around, but remain central. Style cannot obliviate
    technique.\r\n\r\nSo:\r\n> All the type designer can do is optimize the\r\n> readability/legibility/whatever,
    of a font,\r\n> irrespective of its x-height.\r\n\r\nThe x-height cannot be isolated
    - it is at the\r\nheart of readability/legibility/whatever!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-28 17:56:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Kent, I'm afraid I did mean metal Caledonia - - shocking as the confession
    may seem! When I say I like 60%, what I really mean is that I like 62 or a little
    higher. Could just that little bit extra of height in Caledonia be what is upsetting
    me? I'm not saying there's anything the matter with it, I'm just saying that for
    me, it is no longer comfortable to read Caledonia, or some of the other generously
    proportioned Linotype faces. I don't have the problem with Monotype metal; not
    even with Bembo. What I'm finding is that I'm just not comfortable with some of
    the Lino metal ascenders, in a way that I would not have been aware of even 5
    or 10 years ago. Speaking of Lino ascenders, Charles Ellertson had the very generous
    idea of producing a public source Janson, and I have been doing a little clean
    digitization for him as I can. One thing I noticed when looking at various cuts
    is that Lino Janson PS descenders are slightly higher (by about 1.5%) than Lino
    Janson metal. I found this additional ascender height very annoying. Kent, it's
    difficult to write this is it goes against everything we learn and respect, but
    it is the way I feel now.\r\n\r\nAnother factor: as a general rule, for a digital
    typeface that should look acceptable at anywhere from 6 to 24 points, that pretty
    well implies a reasonably high x-height, because otherwise the small point sizes
    won't look at all good. I'm not saying that's a good thing, of course: nobody
    believes in size-specific type as much as I do. "
  created: '2010-04-28 19:49:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Style cannot obliviate technique.</em>\r\n\r\nStyle is part of that to
    which technique is applied, and hence the <em>results</em> of the techniques will
    differ according to style, which is what Nick's spacing comparison of Times and
    Perpetua demonstrates. Within each family, the techniques of optical sizing and
    spacing have parallel progression, but the results compared across typefaces differ
    because the style -- the characteristics of their forms -- enables them to differ."
  created: '2010-04-28 19:53:12'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Bill \u2014 Thanks for the clarification. You needn\u2019t apologize. One\u2019s
    impressions are what they are. It is interesting to me that your opinion has shifted
    in this way. I\u2019d be interested to know some other factors, like which size(s),
    whether the short or long descenders are in play, and how much leading is applied.
    But that assumes you have specific instances in mind, as opposed to just a general
    impression of late.\r\n\r\nHrant \u2014 I have a wide range of data for 10 and
    11 point. Not sure how you would want letter-spacing quantified for comparison
    purposes. We could take comparative alphabet lengths as proportion of point size.
    We could compare specific sidebearings. With only two data points available, I\u2019m
    not sure exactly what the purpose would be. I don\u2019t think that we\u2019d
    find anything that goes against the general accommodations that we\u2019ve all
    acknowledged."
  created: '2010-04-28 21:13:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>...for a digital typeface that should look acceptable at anywhere
    from 6 to 24 points, that pretty well implies a reasonably high x-height, because
    otherwise the small point sizes won't look at all good.</em>\r\n\r\n6\u201324
    pt? The extremes of the range might be okay, because 24pt is into display size
    and the ruggedness of an enlarged 6pt type might be considered a stylistic feature.
    [I'm reminded of Luc's description of the \u2018punkish radiance\u2019 of monospaced
    coding fonts used at display sizes.] It's at the intermediate text sizes that
    things will fall apart badly.\r\n\r\nI'm designing a text face that needs to work
    well at two specific sizes: 9 and 11 cicero points (slightly larger than postscript
    points), within known inking tolerances on known paper stocks, and with as many
    press tests as I want. It's just about the ideal condition in which to be designing
    a typeface, but that two-point spread of sizes has a massive impact on the x-height
    and stem weight requirements. [Spacing is less of a concern, because the smaller
    size can be tracked slightly if necessary.]"
  created: '2010-04-29 01:57:49'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Shouldn't the title of this thread be changed? :D
  created: '2010-04-29 02:27:22'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "The title of the thread was amended.\r\n\r\n(unashamedly inspired by David
    Berlow's comment\u2026)"
  created: '2010-04-29 19:40:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Capital of you, Adam :-)
  created: '2010-04-29 20:09:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">6\u201324 pt? The extremes of the range might be okay, because 24pt is into
    display size and the ruggedness of an enlarged 6pt type might be considered a
    stylistic feature. [I'm reminded of Luc's description of the \u2018punkish radiance\u2019
    of monospaced coding fonts used at display sizes.] It's at the intermediate text
    sizes that things will fall apart badly.<\r\n\r\nWhat you say is at odds with
    the direction the type design industry has taken since phototype. The primnary
    design goal of 99.9% of all phototype (and digital) text masters is to produce
    a text face that is acceptable (not funky) at 6 and 24 points, and optimal at
    either 12 points (Lino and nearly everyone else) or 9 points (much of Berthold
    photo and digital type). Over forty years, the industry has been quite successful
    in that the results have been embraced by nearly every publisher. Every major
    foundry effort to sell size-specific masters to the printing industry has failed.
    All of this occurs at the cost of absolute quality. As you are discovering, \r\n\r\n>I'm
    designing a text face that needs to work well at two specific sizes: 9 and 11
    cicero points (slightly larger than postscript points), within known inking tolerances
    on known paper stocks, and with as many press tests as I want. It's just about
    the ideal condition in which to be designing a typeface, but that two-point spread
    of sizes has a massive impact on the x-height and stem weight requirements. [Spacing
    is less of a concern, because the smaller size can be tracked slightly if necessary.]\r\n\r\noptimum
    design even between 9 and 11 points requires radical tinkering, and few publishers
    today are interested. As you get deeper into the project, I'm afraid you'll see
    that spacing will be more of a concern than you now think it is. Tracking in the
    end never works because it applies the same value, in proportion, to each sidebearing.
    What you will find is that each class of letter (o, straight, various others,
    and same for caps) will require a quite different amount of correction. Most publishers
    simply gloss over such fine points, but where specific typeface designs are being
    made, so, also, should specific spacing be made. Dave Farey once asked Matthew
    Carter at what point in the typeface production he does spacing. Carter's correct
    reply was, 'When I'm designing the letter.'"
  created: '2010-06-09 12:46:17'
- author:
    name: Sibling
  body: "@Nick & Dan\r\nI just stumbled over this thread now, a couple of months after
    your talking about if any Frankfurt paper used Janson as its text face. Nick was
    right, the Frankfurter Allgemeine DOES in fact use Janson, and to a gorgeous effect.
    Won \"best designed newspaper\" award several times if I remember correctly.\r\n\r\nThis
    is the SUNDAY EDITION, though. It has a completely different design (and a completely
    different editorial staff, for that matter). "
  created: '2010-08-27 21:47:26'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Since this thread got bumped, I'll point out that Adobe Text is [[http://typekit.com/fonts/adobe-text-pro|now
    available on Typekit]].
  created: '2010-08-28 07:37:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Good to meet you at Typecon, Christopher!
  created: '2010-08-28 13:13:20'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: Back atcha!
  created: '2010-08-28 18:39:17'
date: '2010-04-24 14:13:44'
node_type: forum
title: The "Adobe Text" typeface, and some other x-heightable issues.

---
