---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: Are 2400 or 3600 dpi really reached in the production of books, cheap paperbacks
  for example? I am actually in a discussion about ebook devices with regard to their
  low resolution and my counterpart tells me, that I shall show him the book, that
  reaches a resolution of 2400 dpi. One of my arguments against ebook devices is their
  low resolution. I simply need more information about offset printing with regard
  to the resolution.
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "2400 dpi and higher is only necessary for outputting medium-to-high quality
    dot rasters. Theoretically, one could switch back a RIP to 1200 dpi (or even slightly
    lower) for plain text only, and have the RIP use less memory and a faster output
    rate.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure, though, if this is done in practice (perhaps there
    are text-only companies that use low res as default). I doubt my trusted magnifying
    glass can tell the difference on text offset-printed at, say, 800 dpi and 2400
    dpi."
  created: '2010-04-24 20:39:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "And when are 2400 dpi required, if not for plain text? I thought, that such
    a high resolution is required for letters mainly. I mean, what is more sensible
    than letters?\r\n\r\nWith regard to the direct comparison of printed text and
    ebook devices \u2013 what would you say, at which resolution could an ebook device
    beat a well made book, that is printed in a normal quality \u2013 I miss the right
    term, let\u2019s call it a normal paperback, nothing exclusive and expensive.
    What resolution would an ebook device require, when it shall display body text
    in 8.5 points?\r\n\r\nAnd can I buy printing examples with different resolutions
    up to 3600 dpi? I would like to check, if I am able to see the difference. More
    to the point, I would like to know the real resolution, that is required without
    castrating body text fonts like Sabon Next."
  created: '2010-04-24 21:10:14'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Just an idea: you can contact Taschen and ask the resolution their books
    are made. Art books with large, quality reproductions are the highest demanding
    print materials I know. And Taschen has an outstanding overall print quality \u2013including
    texts at small sizes."
  created: '2010-04-24 21:30:09'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Freiberger\r\n\r\nYes. And I can ask in German. I better can express in
    German, what I would like to know. But it seems to be, that I made a mistake,
    when I had claimed, that an ebook device has round about 8% of the resolution
    as a \"normal\" print. There was a person on a non-typophile forum, who said,
    we should be glad, when the problem of turning the pages of printed books will
    be solved (by replacing printed books with ebooks on ebook devices.)\r\n\r\nThe
    original German wording was: \"Was soll am Seitenumbl\xE4tterns bitte sch\xF6n
    sein? Das hat doch eigentlich schon immer nur genervt.\r\nDas sind doch nur romantische
    Klischees, die Nachteile gedruckter\r\nB\xFCcher werden v\xF6llig ausgeblendet:
    Man braucht beide H\xE4nde daf\xFCr,\r\nwenn man das Buch losl\xE4sst, bl\xE4ttern
    die Seiten zur\xFCck oder es klappt\r\nzu, es kriegt Eselsohren und der R\xFCcken
    wird verknittert, wenn man es\r\nzu weit umknickt. Wir sollten froh sein, wenn
    wir diese Probleme los sind.\"\r\n\r\n(I just remember, that you are from Brazil.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    that was too much ignorance for me. But I am amateur. It would be better if professional
    typographers and printers would comment those things. My argument was, that the
    most important and most comfortable thing is the legibility. If an ebook device
    is legible and comfortable as printed book with regard to the legibility, then
    we should be glad, if the printed book dies. What I want to say is, I am not against
    ebook devices because of pure ideological reasons.\r\n\r\nAnother argument from
    my side was, that we should not compare books, that are printed in the lowest
    quality, with ebook devices. So I need a standard for the comparison between ebook
    devices and printed books.\r\n\r\nBut I don\u2019t want to start another thread
    about the future of the book."
  created: '2010-04-24 21:54:52'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 2400 dpi is a great resolution for an inkjet printer but, realistically, very
    few--if any--commercial offset printing presses print at a higher resolution that
    200 dpi.
  created: '2010-04-24 23:21:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Arno, sorry but I can read just a few words in Deutsch.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I
    don't think you're wrong. 96dpi <strong>is</strong> 8% from 1200dpi \u2013and
    there are many prints in this resolution. Maybe you can better say that e-devices
    had near 16% of average print resolution (comparing to 600dpi output). And even
    this is a <strong>long</strong> distance.\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 00:02:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the case of smallish text in high-quality printing, one\r\ncan certainly
    see the difference between 1200 and 2400.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday, learn about
    the Armenian Genocide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 00:21:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>2400 dpi is a great resolution for an inkjet printer but, realistically,
    very few--if any--commercial offset printing presses print at a higher resolution
    that 200 dpi.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are surely confusing dpi and lpi. 2400 dpi is quite
    normal for imagesetter rasterisation of text (even for straight-to-plate these
    days); 150 lpi (lines per inch) is quite common for halftone images, but stochastic
    screening is now pretty widespread."
  created: '2010-04-25 00:23:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Anyone who thinks that \r\n\r\n1200 dpi \r\n\r\nas output by\r\n\r\na linotron\r\n\r\na
    laser printer\r\n\r\nan inkjet printer\r\n\r\nis the same\r\n\r\nis mad.\r\n\r\nThe
    quality of the dots is drastically different. Imagesetter comes first, obviously,
    then, way down, laser, and way way down, inkjet. \r\n\r\nThere is nothing absolute
    about 1200, 2400 3600, etc. The quality of the dot controls all."
  created: '2010-04-25 02:00:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'If we''re talking ''normal paperbacks'' I''d say ebook readers can easily
    give them a run for the money. Many paperbacks are printed on paper that I''d
    say is only a step above newsprint which, in turn, produces rather nasty ink bleed
    and inconsistencies. '
  created: '2010-04-25 02:26:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The other thing is that thanks to both anti-aliasing and sub-pixel rendering,
    at the same dpi a screen is far superior to print. Obviously, the resolutions
    are not the same, but I'm thinking that if I had 40-50% the resolution on screen
    as in print, text would be about equally good.\r\n\r\nOf course, at 8% we would
    have a way to go yet.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-25 06:20:16'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>The quality of the dots is drastically different. Imagesetter comes
    first, obviously, then, way down, laser, and way way down, inkjet.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>There
    is nothing absolute about 1200, 2400 3600, etc. The quality of the dot controls
    all.</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay, a dot is not a dot. In case of inkjets I know, that the
    quality of the dots is very dependent from the paper. But that\u2019s not all;
    \ it\u2019s also the way, in which the dots are set, which seems to be partly
    dependent from the printer driver.\r\n\r\nWith regard to electronic devices Thomas
    already said, that the antialiasing improves the legibility. But the extra dots
    (pixel in this case) are still pixel.\r\n\r\nSo I would like to know more generally,
    when a dot is a high quality dot? Is it the shape, the size, the regularity of
    the grid, in which the dots are set, or the reflection characteristics of the
    dots? Ten lined dots on a centimeter can be ten squares, that are all much smaller
    than a millimeter. The I have a dotted line. If they have a size of exactly one
    millimeter I have a line, that is not broken between the dots.\r\n\r\n<cite>2400
    dpi is a great resolution for an inkjet printer but, realistically, very few--if
    any--commercial offset printing presses print at a higher resolution that 200
    dpi.</cite>\r\n\r\n200 dpi? Did you forget a zero? I can hardly imagine, that
    this is true.\r\n\r\n<cite>In the case of smallish text in high-quality printing,
    one\r\ncan certainly see the difference between 1200 and 2400.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne
    argument of my counterparts was, that the text in books is often set to small
    for old people. And my answer was, that it is not the point size only, that makes
    the text harder to read, but partly the downscaled font, that was designed for
    a bigger point size, and partly the low quality, in which the text is printed.
    I did say, that we need more font families with optical sizes, and more maintenance
    of our cultural achievements with regard to the apprenticeship of craftsmen. It
    is absurd to say, that a new technology is better than the old one, if the potential
    of the old technology is not tapped. If a person only knows wine, that costs one
    Dollar per bottle, he may come to the conclusion, that alcopops taste better than
    wine. And that is really a pity, because it is so unfair.\r\n\r\nSomeone did tell
    me with regard of my pro book arguments, that we also should not use modern cars
    anymore, but carriages. He did not understand, that the speed, in which you can
    read a book, is dependent from the legibility. So the ebook device of today is
    a carriage in the outfit of a modern car \u2013 in the comparison with a well
    printed book."
  created: '2010-04-25 09:21:14'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>So the ebook device of today is a carriage in the outfit of a modern
    car \u2013 in the comparison with a well printed book.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs the car
    has evolved over time to be <em>more</em> than a <a href=\"http://www.google.com/images?q=horseless+carriage\">horseless
    carriage</a>, you should expect ebooks to evolve in a similar way. For now, an
    ebook is simply \"a book on screen\" -- but take for example\r\n\r\n<cite>.. the
    text in books is often set to small for old people.</cite>\r\n\r\nwhich is (or
    should be -- I don't own any ebook reading device) a point in favor of e-devices:
    drag over, or pinch, or shake your reader, and the type gets bigger.\r\n\r\nNotes
    in the text? Tap them and read it in a pop up window. A difficult statement? Draw
    a question mark gesture on the screen, and the phrase rewrites itself using shorter
    words ;-)"
  created: '2010-04-25 12:40:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>which is (or should be -- I don't own any ebook reading device) a point
    in favor of e-devices: drag over, or pinch, or shake your reader, and the type
    gets bigger.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure. But the argument against the printed book was,
    that small point sizes are not legible. And I did say, that the legibility is
    not dependent from the point size only."
  created: '2010-04-25 13:02:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What resolution would an ebook device require, when it shall display body
    text in 8.5 points?\r\n\r\nAssuming some hints & just average anti-aliasing (aa),
    and to be safe, one would want a font where all the main stems have become 2-pixels-worth
    of the em. For most text faces that falls somewhere around 22-24 pixels per em.
    For 23 pixels to be 8.5 point you'd need 195 dpi.\r\n\r\nAssuming no hints but
    scary-good aa, one can obviously get it to work at 135 or so, with user distance/size
    of screen \u2014 key.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-25 13:51:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Several gotchas (missed my nap yesterday): when I said 200 dpi for halftones,
    I did indeed mean lpi...'
  created: '2010-04-25 17:42:40'
- author:
    name: Mans
    picture: 114961
  body: "Arno wrote:\r\n<cite>With regard to electronic devices Thomas already said,
    that the antialiasing improves the legibility. But the extra dots (pixel in this
    case) are still pixel.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but Thomas also mentioned <em>sub</em>-pixel
    rendering, which makes use of the individual colour channels R, G, B. This, if
    I am not mistaken, produces \u201Ddots\u201D one-third the size of a pixel (or
    optically less, possibly) -- but correct me if I\u2019m wrong."
  created: '2010-04-29 08:28:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Yes, but Thomas also mentioned sub-pixel rendering, which makes use
    of the individual colour channels R, G, B. This, if I am not mistaken, produces
    \u201Ddots\u201D one-third the size of a pixel (or optically less, possibly) --
    but correct me if I\u2019m wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think, that this
    is true, at least not on a TFT. Cleartype is sub-pixel rendering for example.
    There is one grid only. The sub-pixel R, G and B are on the same position and
    they are not smaller than a pixel. Sub-pixel rendering dupes a higher resolution
    only. It is an illusion. This can easily be seen on low resolution TFT. The illusion
    does work better, if the physical resolution of the TFT is higher.But just make
    a screenshot, if sub-pixel rendering is active, and zoom in."
  created: '2010-04-29 09:48:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>The sub-pixel R, G and B are on the same position and they are not
    smaller than a pixel</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, physically, they are exactly that. Physically,
    in a TFT, each pixel is made up of three distinct R/G/B elements (usually in that
    order), each of which is a third of a pixel wide. This is what subpixel rendering
    uses: Of course you can only edit full pixels, but when you make a pixel blue,
    then technically only the rightmost third of it is glowing. When you make it red,
    only the leftmost third. That's why subpixel rendering works. Obviously when you
    zoom in, your hardware stays the same, so you only see colors, not the active
    and inactive subpixels\u2026\r\n\r\nThere's a bunch of material on it out there.
    You might start here: http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2009/11/02/the-ails-of-typographic-anti-aliasing/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-29 11:22:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> There is one grid only. \r\n\r\nActually, from a typographic point of view,
    there are now three grids per size.\r\n\r\nIt's not entirely unlike a baseball
    manager saying he can use 22 one-legged players at once, within the rules, and
    get the same results as 11 two-legged players would deliver. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-29 15:38:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Arno wrote: <cite>I don\u2019t think, that this is true, at least not on
    a TFT. Cleartype is sub-pixel rendering for example. There is one grid only. The
    sub-pixel R, G and B are on the same position and they are not smaller than a
    pixel.<cite>\r\n\r\nThere are three sub-pixels per pixel, and they are completely
    physically distinct, in different positions on the X-axis. Attached for instance
    is a microscope photo of a Dell TFT LCD screen.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/397px-Dell_axim_LCD_under_microscope_6201.jpg]\r\n\r\n<cite>Sub-pixel
    rendering dupes a higher resolution only. It is an illusion.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a weird process, but not exactly an illusion.\r\n\r\n<cite>This can easily be
    seen on low resolution TFT. The illusion does work better, if the physical resolution
    of the TFT is higher.But just make a screenshot, if sub-pixel rendering is active,
    and zoom in. </cite>\r\n\r\nIf the screen shot is viewed at the original resolution
    on a TFT (or any other kind of LCD), then turning on/off a sub-pixel \"works\"
    and produce something reasonably convincing to most viewers. Of course, if one
    views it at any other resolution, then of course that breaks the effect, because
    instead of turning on/off a single sub-pixel, the same sub-pixel is affected on
    several contiguous pixels, affecting one out of three sub-pixels repeatedly, creating
    what is most definitely a single color.\r\n\r\nThe whole thing is only slightly
    more of an illusion than the LCD screen in the first place. We are already creating
    an \"illusory\" white by turning on three adjacent subpixels that are red, green
    and blue. A horizontal white line is simply a row of alternating red, green and
    blue subpixels. If we end that line a third of a pixel sooner, by not turning
    on that last blue subpixel, we still have a line ending in one subpixel of each
    color, so it looks white.\r\n\r\nDepending on the details of how the subpixel
    rendering is done, the amount of space between x-direction features, the individual's
    sensitivity to it, and the resolution of the screen, one can sometimes see \"color
    fringing\" with sub-pixel rendering. But that doesn't mean that sub-pixel rendering
    is somehow illusory. At text sizes on screen, for most people viewing it, it is
    immensely beneficial the overwhelming majority of the time.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-29 20:52:44'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thanks! I have to get more info about that, especially with regard to the
    brightness of the colors. I am following Nina\u2019s link."
  created: '2010-04-29 22:38:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "From the early days of laser printers versus electrostatic printers, I remember
    that the first laser printers, at 300 dpi, produced acceptable typeset-quality
    output, while an electrostatic printer at 200 dpi definitely did not.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, that is with pixels that were either black or white. With antialiasing,
    a lower resolution is tolerable. This is why you can see printed signs in a scene
    on a TV screen, and they look reasonable.\r\n\r\nWhile printers might have difficulty
    in dealing with different shades of gray, displays are designed to do this."
  created: '2010-04-30 03:13:44'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ John (quadibloc)\r\n\r\n<cite>From the early days of laser printers versus
    electrostatic printers, I remember that the first laser printers, at 300 dpi,
    produced acceptable typeset-quality output, while an electrostatic printer at
    200 dpi definitely did not.</cite>\r\n\r\nAren\u2019t laser printers electrostatic
    printers?\r\n\r\n<cite>Of course, that is with pixels that were either black or
    white. With antialiasing, a lower resolution is tolerable.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe question,
    under which circumstances text is printed or displayed in a tolerable quality,
    is less important for me. When can an ebook device beat printed books? And I am
    not talking about books, that are printed in a low (but tolerable) quality. It
    would be the same as the following: First I don\u2019t produce speed cars, that
    have combustion engine, anymore and then I compare cars, that have a combustion
    engine, with cars, that have an electro engine.\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow already gave
    an answer. Nobody disagreed. You are the professionals, I never have seen a linotron.
    I have to trust in the experts, because I am far less experienced.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-30 10:19:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I wasn't trying to contradict the experts, but I thought it would be useful
    to provide information about the minimum resolution that provides acceptable results,
    as that might be important for some applications.\r\n\r\nA laser printer does
    indeed use static electricity to hold toner on the selenium drum, which is then
    transferred to the paper. There was an older type of computer output device, typically
    <em>called</em> an \"electrostatic printer\", made by companies such as Varian
    which printed at a significantly lower resolution than laser printers, but higher
    than impact dot-matrix printers."
  created: '2010-04-30 11:08:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ John\r\n\r\n<cite>I wasn't trying to contradict the experts</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know.\r\n\r\nAs far as I am informed ebook devices with resolutions, about which
    David says, they could provide the same quality as printed books with regard to
    the felt resolution, are already available. It seems to be primary dependent from
    the software, hinting and rendering engine, if David is right, correct?"
  created: '2010-04-30 11:27:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> It seems to be primary dependent from the software, hinting and rendering
    engine, if David is right, correct?\r\n\r\nIf I understand your question correctly,
    if there is enough device resolution, quality electronic publishing can be developed
    without extensive effort to overcome hinting and rendering issues.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-04-30 12:07:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If I understand your question correctly, if there is enough device
    resolution, quality electronic publishing can be developed without extensive effort
    to overcome hinting and rendering issues.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, sure. If the resolution
    of a display would be 1200 dpi, nobody had to care about hinting and subpixel-rendering
    anymore. If I have understood you correctly, the 135 dpi are enough only, if the
    rendering engine is well programmed (and if the hinting is very well made?). You
    know that better than me, how much effort the programming of the rendering engine
    and the hinting requires, when the resolution is 195 dpi. You are the professionals
    \u2013 inclusively the responsibility of education, for the case, that the ebook
    hype is more fascination for modern technology than a justified replacement of
    the old technologies with regard to the legibility. I hope you understand me correctly
    \u2013 typedesign and typography are your professions and therefore it would be
    a normal reaction from your side, if you raise an alarm, when the quality is in
    danger just because there can be made more money with a new technology for example.\r\n\r\nAs
    I already said, I don\u2019t want to keep printed books, because I am nostalgic.
    I simply want to keep quality, especially with regard to the legibility, and I
    see, that quality often was immolated in the past for pure marketing reasons in
    case of other products."
  created: '2010-04-30 18:22:30'
- author:
    name: tupper
  body: "<em>If the screen shot is viewed at the original resolution on a TFT (or
    any other kind of LCD), then turning on/off a sub-pixel \"works\" and produce
    something reasonably convincing to most viewers.</em>\r\n\r\nProper subpixel rendering
    should take the subpixel geometry into account. While typical, not all LCDs use
    RGB striping (some even have more than three subpixels per pixel)."
  created: '2010-05-01 08:14:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thomas P.>  ...doesn't mean that sub-pixel rendering is somehow illusory.\r\n\r\nCorrect,
    it doesn't. But, people who know what they are doing in screen fonts. as opposed
    to making something new out of nothing old,  do not 'count' on something in X
    they don't have in Y, or the reverse. So, 'typographically', the way I count resolution
    is to take the x resolution and the y resolution, throw away the highest value
    and use the lowest;).\r\n\r\n>the ebook hype is more fascination for modern technology
    than a justified replacement of the old technologies \r\nI think we are not all
    the same with regards to our ability to read, so hype to some is education to
    others, perhaps?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-01 12:37:03'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ David\r\n\r\n<cite>the ebook hype is more fascination for modern technology
    than a justified replacement of the old technologies</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    out off context.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think we are not all the same with regards to
    our ability to read, so hype to some is education to others, perhaps?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    and there is no accounting for taste, which sounds similar, but which is untrue,
    because it denies aesthetic principles. There is for example art, that is pure
    shit. It\u2019s more than a question of taste. Yesterday I had talked with a woman,
    that only buys wine for two Euro per bottle, but invests 15.000 Euro in a conservatory
    (winter garden). Sorry, but legibility can only be evaluated, if the reader can
    compare. If he only knows books, that are not well printed, he concludes, that
    ebook devices are an improvement. Maybe they are or will be an improvement, but
    the minimum, that I expect is a fair comparison from competent people. People,
    that read telephone books only, are not competent."
  created: '2010-05-01 13:42:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">That\u2019s out off context. \r\n\r\nThen I didn't mean it. \r\n\r\n>If
    he only knows books, that are not well printed, he concludes, that ebook devices
    are an improvement.\r\n\r\nAgreed. And if one only knows poorly rendered text
    on desktop computers, badly printed books may be an improvement.\r\n\r\nBut relative
    to rendered text on desktop computers, most e-books are going to do just fine,
    I think.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-01 21:27:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ David\r\n\r\nI have masses of books, that are not well printed. These books
    are for sure not my reference. Except from that, I have no problems to be teached
    and corrected by you.\r\n\r\nBut once again, when I started the thread, I did
    not want to know, what does just fine, but what does just better or best. That
    ebook devices are better than a desktop TFT, is clear."
  created: '2010-05-01 21:45:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dots and pixels as noted are not the same in offset printing. A minimum 150
    line screen can have positive and negative elements at the outer reaches of the
    tonal spectrum. Imagine how much pixel resolution it would take to make a consistently
    defined halftone dot at 3% of its fullest possible size within the 150 lpi grid.
    That is why they use imagesetters in the area of 3,000 dpi to resolve a 3% dot
    at 150 lpi.\r\nSolid type has no halftone dots so there is much less resolution
    needed to get reasonable text print at book sizes. A 1200 lpi Linotronic will
    do.  When smaller sizes are needed, imagesetters at 2538 or higher are used.  Since
    photographs are most often printed with fine quality book text, the 2538 and above
    imagesetters are used anyway.  The main thing to realize is that dot printed on
    even a 2400 dpi laser is no where near as crisp as an imagesetter at the same
    setting. Inkjet is a whole other beast and they are not reliable for long runs."
  created: '2010-05-01 22:41:21'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "With the current ebook readers, I don't even think resolution is the biggest
    problem, but typography is. Whenever the user can scale fontsize and whatnot,
    good typography (e.g. H&J settings and such) goes out of the window.\r\n\r\nBut
    I have to say I've never been a big fan of reading books on an ebook reader. I
    miss the physicality of a book, the texture of paper, the smell of ink and just
    the general act of using a well-designed book. Increasing the resolution alone
    would not help for me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-02 16:31:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>That ebook devices are better than a desktop TFT, is clear.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not entirely convinced of that. Of course, they are much more portable, which
    is a great practical advantage, but not so much of an edge when one is actually
    reading. Some of them use e-ink tech, which has some advantages (readable in outdoor
    daylight, for instance). Some use LCDs, just smaller ones than desktop/laptop
    computers.\r\n\r\nAside from that, they have fewer total screen pixels and hence
    shorter line lengths of text. The resolution (dpi) is generally much higher, of
    course.\r\n\r\n(Except for the iPad, which is weirdly low, with 1024x768 at 9.7\"
    diagonal = 132 dpi, while current laptops often get to 120-125 dpi.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-02 23:32:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> That ebook devices are better than a desktop TFT, is clear.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    \r\n\r\n>(Except for the iPad, which is weirdly low...\r\n\r\nAgreed, it should
    be 144. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-03 11:53:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I just have laserprinted the specimen of <a href="http://www.256tm.com/en/minuscule.htm">Minuscule</a>.
    It is amazing, how optical sizes can improve legibility. Each optical size has
    its right to exist. If there would be more fonts with a wide range of optical
    sizes and more well made books, that are set in those fonts, this would kill the
    ebook hype. And I tested the font family on a cheap laser printer. The typeface
    keeps its identity even in three points. And in four points it is still well legible.
    What have I paid for the printer? I think round about 150 Euro.
  created: '2010-05-08 21:42:03'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: '@Arno Enslin: actually, there are many typefaces with optical sizes available;
    like Arno Pro, Freight, Adobe Minion, Adobe Warnock, H&FJ Chronicle and H&FJ Mercury,
    only to name a few.'
  created: '2010-05-09 15:58:03'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Quincunx\r\n\r\nThere are only a few fonts with optical sizes in relation
    to the number of body text fonts without optical sizes. One third of them are
    news paper fonts. One fifth sans serifs. And the half of the rest is not well
    made. Garamond Premier Pro is a desaster. I would not want to have a license for
    free. Merlo and Stempel Garamond should have optical sizes. I am not contented
    with the way, in which Adobe has created optical sizes. In fact I don\u2019t like
    the very most fonts released by Adobe. There are genius fonts of other foundries,
    but the very most of them have no optical sizes. And I think, it is a pure question
    of money. In my opinion there is absolute no need for more magazine fonts and
    sans serifs, but a big lack of well made fonts with serifs and optical sizes for
    books. Minuscule impressively shows that even optical sizes in steps of one point
    make sense."
  created: '2010-05-09 17:58:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "OK I haven't read the whole thread, but 300 dpi is generally fine for art
    for book printing. As long as you are using the scan at no more than 120%. For
    bitmap art, 1200 dpi is considered the norm. Again, no more than 120%.\r\n\r\nI
    have no idea what resolution ebooks require but you might as well make your files
    with print-quality resolution. You can always make a pdf to the specifications
    of your clients. But you can't res something up."
  created: '2010-05-10 21:55:03'
date: '2010-04-24 19:58:39'
node_type: forum
title: Need a bit more info about printing resolutions

---
