---
author:
  name: thomascbryan
  picture: 119775
body: "My biggest question at this point in time is that of the future of type design.
  \ Since type has been around for so long, how does one avoid overlap with designs
  that are already out there.  What is the best way to not end up in the situation
  where you finish designing a typeface and discover that you just re-invented the
  wheel?  Is there an easy way (other than flipping through the FontBook / font catalogs
  for hours in order to avoid re-creating an already released font?\r\n\r\nIn short,
  I feel like as time progresses, the chances of reinventing the wheel increase, how
  does one avoid this conundrum?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance for your input,\r\nTom"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'The short answer is: you can''t avoid it. Check out the Type ID board: no
    single individual has all the answers all the time.'
  created: '2010-04-29 17:17:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is there an easy way (other than flipping through the FontBook / font catalogs
    for hours in order to avoid re-creating an already released font?\r\n\r\nUpload
    the key letters into Myfonts WTF and see what quality of hits you get. "
  created: '2010-04-29 20:52:44'
- author:
    name: thomascbryan
    picture: 119775
  body: "Good point, oldnick.  I guess I was just looking for that answer to life,
    the universe, and everything...\r\n\r\nsii, I didn't think of that for some reason,
    and it would definitely work once the face was complete (or near complete).  Was
    just hoping to see the 'dead end' sign at the top of the road rather than at the
    bottom.\r\n\r\nMany thanks to both of you for your input."
  created: '2010-04-29 21:39:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There's no way to avoid the risk. The better part of a century ago, Frederic
    Goudy was saying of type design that \"The old fellows stole all our best ideas!\"
    Meaning that many \"new\" ideas people came up with had already been thought of.
    Even landmark type designs ofttimes turn out to have been preceded by lesser known
    designs that feature similar innovations. For example, look at Stellar before
    Optima.\r\n\r\nJust be creative, and learn lots about what's been done already.
    Equally importantly, learn the *craft* of type design. There are a bunch of optical
    principles for strokes, there's the basics of spacing and kerning... most of which
    is not entirely obvious.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-04-29 22:37:49'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: I think you need to have an internal program for your font, i.e., a purpose
    in mind, a reason for a new font serving that purpose. If your program is specific,
    then you have criteria for your design decisions as you create the typeface. It's
    unlikely that you will repeat what someone else has done exactly.
  created: '2010-04-29 23:15:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's possible for two people to have the same concept independently, but
    the execution will come out differently. \r\n\r\nThere's no danger of accidentally
    reproducing someone else's typeface, if you start from scratch and pay scant attention
    to reference material.\r\nAfter all, nobody could recreate, say, even well-known
    faces like Helvetica or Times from memory; there is something too personal and
    physical involved in the act of drawing, of judging, weighing and adjusting curve,
    proportion and space over an entire alphabet--and the original glyph shapes are
    extremely subtle.\r\n\r\nIt's the subtleties that make or break a typeface."
  created: '2010-04-30 01:16:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "It's like that old saying of giving a monkey a typewriter and it will eventually
    type the Bible (or something - I'm paraphrasing here).\r\nThat may well be but
    it would take a trillion years."
  created: '2010-04-30 12:18:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: But give a monkey a Sharpie and it will pretty quickly come up with Comic
    Sans, right? ;-)
  created: '2010-04-30 12:25:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">In short, I feel like as time progresses, the chances of reinventing the
    wheel increase, how does one avoid this conundrum?\r\n\r\nFirst of all,  if one
    closely examines the invention and reinventions of the wheel, you find literally
    millions of  variations on the wheel that we're all glad for, many of which don't
    even roll.  So, it's not like the wheel was, once invented, not in need of reinvention
    for new technologies or the desires of fashion. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-04-30 12:50:28'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Once we can break free from the rigid technical limitations of current font
    formats, we'll have more room to maneuver.
  created: '2010-05-01 02:10:01'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What limitations in particular are you thinking of, Ray? I don't find current
    font formats all that limiting, in terms of design constraints.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-01 02:46:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Nick Shinn is right. If you don't set out to copy something existing,
    you won't. You may see it as a distant cousin but never an identical twin.  There
    may be a few exceptions when it comes to  some very rigidly geometric forms.\r\nThe
    big thing is, why would you want to go through the prolonged task of designing
    a typeface unless it had some parts of your soul in it?"
  created: '2010-05-01 22:56:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Theere is a finite number of places to put nodes in a 1000\xD71000 M quad,
    so sooner or later, all possible fonts will have been made. Then our work will
    be done and we can all relax. "
  created: '2010-05-02 02:42:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...and we can all relax.\"\r\n\r\nI guess that means Russel is buying :-)"
  created: '2010-05-02 04:23:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>...a finite number of places to put nodes in a 1000\xD71000 M quad...</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but the number of possible combinations of nodes, control handles, their order,
    quantity, and position is very, very high. You could simplify it to a bitmap of
    1000 x 1000. That would give you 2 to the millionth power* of possible bit patterns.
    Even if you only include distinct and desirable forms, for practical purposes,
    it may as well be infinite.\r\n\r\n* 9.9006562292958982506979236163019032507336242417875...
    x 10^301029"
  created: '2010-05-02 04:59:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "\u2026 So, Mark,  what you seem to be saying is that there is still a lot
    of work to be done here. \r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\nSorry Chris, I'd be happy too, but
    it looks like may have to wait a while.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-02 06:01:08'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Especially if you work in TT format (2048 unit em). '
  created: '2010-05-02 14:36:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: OK, Russel, if you make it across the big pond by then, I'll buy you a tinner
    :-)
  created: '2010-05-02 17:04:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@Thomas:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>no alpha channels: currently, all semi-transparency
    must be done as dots etc.\r\n<li>no gradients: pointless without alpha channels
    I guess\r\n<li>no blur channel: to simulate liquid, gels. Less blue near the edges,
    more blur on the thick parts\r\n<li>no specular (variable glossiness)\r\n<li>no
    assignable color groups: if you want to do multicolor effects, you currently need
    to make separate layers. I'd like to, at least define a base color and a highlight
    color.\r\n<li>no stroke/plotter fonts: like the old days. Let the user define
    a stroke thickness.\r\n<li>no stroke/plotter scripts with real joins: the renderer
    can simulate a continuous stroke through an entire word, perhaps changing quality
    as it goes along. The renderer can animate the stroke so handwriting could appear
    to be written. By \"real joins\" I mean the entry and exit stroke is defined so
    the pen moves in the proper direction and order.\r\n<li>no 3D: if you think there's
    no point having 3D lettering, walk though a cemetery.\r\n<li>no bones: like a
    skeleton to a 3D modelling skeleton system. An example of how this would be used
    would be to make a swash g at the end of the word, loop under to the beginning
    of the word. No matter the length of word, the loop's skeleton would would deform
    the loop's mesh.\r\n<li>no smart way of dealing with diacriticals: we should be
    able to define rules on how accents should be placed.\r\n<li>no tiling alpha channel
    textures: this would be a great way to simulate textures like \"pencil\" while
    still having a scalable vector fonts. Using a detailed textured would more be
    memory affordable than actually rending it on every glyph like Photofonts. They
    would also tile properly across diacritics. I can explain if more detail if you
    don't know what I'm getting at.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThese features should degrade
    properly so they still look readable without all the extra features.\r\n\r\nAt
    the very least, I want something PostScript has supported since biblical times:
    gradients & alpha channels. Trying to simulate pencil, marker or watercolor with
    dots in 2010 is ridiculous. Yeah, yeah Photofonts, whatever. I want a real format
    with vectors, not pixels. Font rasterizers already render gray levels for smoothing
    so it might not to be as big a technological leap as some of the other things
    I've mentioned.\r\n\r\nSince the beginning of digital type, font formats have
    offered no new visual capabilities: decades of dumb solid shape after dumb solid
    shape."
  created: '2010-05-02 17:16:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...decades of dumb solid shape after dumb solid shape.\r\n\r\n Centuries,
    actually... and for very good reasons. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-02 17:45:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Ray, if PostScript Type 3 font support were revived, most if not all of that
    stuff should be possible.
  created: '2010-05-02 18:10:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/18963
  created: '2010-05-02 19:07:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Mark is correct that PostScript Type 3 fonts could do those things. However,
    they were only viewable with a full-blown PostScript environment... in other words,
    they only output to PostScript devices, and to get live viewing on screen, you
    needed Display PostScript. That hasn't been standard on any computer since NeXT
    went away, AFAIK.\r\n\r\nAlthough there would be some advantages, I am willing
    to bet we won't see either PostScript Type 3 or Display PostScript making a resurgence
    in my lifetime. Or ever, in all likelihood.\r\n\r\nI would not be shocked to see
    support for some of the things Ray wants in a future font format or extension
    to OpenType, though. Color, transparency / alpha channels, and gradients are the
    most likely advances, IMO.\r\n\r\nHowever, balanced against all of the above are
    the twin issues of complexity and performance. The OS vendors in particular, who
    need to implement and support any new font format, care a great deal about text
    rendering performance. I mean, good grief, Microsoft still hasn't turned kerning
    on by default in Word because of performance concerns. Do you really think they'll
    embrace these sorts of features in fonts? I think the perception will be that
    this is a major escalation in cost for a really minor benefit.\r\n\r\nThe one
    small caveat has to do with accent positioning. Perhaps Ray can explain more of
    what he's looking for there. Seems to me like that may already be supported well
    at the format level, perhaps just not well enough in the tools he's using?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-02 21:12:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It seems like it would be possible to do a sort of meta-format, based on sets
    of current-format fonts that are designed to be used together for "chromatic"
    effects, such as Rosewood/Rosewood Fill. You could then have an app that would
    let you build layer/color recipes that could be used like normal fonts via a plug-in
    for graphics apps.
  created: '2010-05-02 21:46:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Seems to me like that may already be supported well at the format level,\r\n\r\nActually
    perhaps not, and the inventor of TT once agreed that by following PS's lead in
    both T1 and T3, he may possibly have erred. The two parts only have an anchor
    to share knowledge between them in tt: they scale and render separately and the
    bits are pinned together by this anchor. When glyphs need more information between
    them to get along better, across the range of scripts and styles, tools must be
    used to manage these more complex glyph compositions, before dumping the dumbed
    down composites into a puny machine format for output, which usually makes them
    bigger. TrueType provides a complete language for managing all the information
    of more intelligent compositing, if only the language could be applied to the
    recipe for positioning the parts, and subsequent parts on the stack could reference
    points of previously placed parts.\r\n\r\nThe swash g dream is near. That's GX
    variations with a backward-looking OT feature. No bones required, just the addition
    of 128 frames of change, and composition software that can count backwards and
    tell the glyph how far to stretch. Milo did this I'm guessing for Arabic.\r\n\r\nMost
    of the rest of the list falls into the area of treatments, better left to the
    user at output, for size considerations. I understand the desire of the type designer
    to wish for more control, but the user has so many more tools, that if they want
    an effect they can get it with any outline under clever hands. \r\n\r\nI miss
    stroke fonts, and I wish I had variable width stroke fonts, so I'm doing something
    about it. Otherwise I think the dumb shape format is good for what it does, but
    we need more tables, particularly for more complex authoring of color, texture
    and time-based media. But all we ever seem to get is less use of the formats we
    have now, and dumber formats being generated from smarter ones for dummies with
    programs.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-05-02 22:41:12'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: ">>...decades of dumb solid shape after dumb solid shape.\r\n\r\n>Centuries,
    actually... and for very good reasons.\r\n\r\nNot for good reasons. It's not like
    metal type ever had an alpha channel gradients option available. It's not a choice
    that ever had to be made. The reason was that it couldn't be done. Over centuries,
    type designers have developed techniques to adjust weight. A bowl's strokes get
    thinner when they meet the stem. I want them to get thicker when the meet the
    stem. Thicker yet more transparent. I want my W to use variable transparency to
    reduce weight, not just thinner lines. I want my O to have an edgeless counter.
    To do this now. I have to use shitty dots and lines which render poorly on-screen.\r\n\r\n>
    Most of the rest of the list falls into the area of treatments, better left to
    the user at output, for size considerations. I understand the desire of the type
    designer to wish for more control, but the user has so many more tools, that if
    they want an effect they can get it with any outline under clever hands.\r\n\r\nPlease
    forget the idea of \"effects\". These are not just effects. These attributes are
    integral to a font's design. It's not just an effect on a font, it <em>is</em>
    the font. \r\n Current font formats were designed for text fonts, not for display
    fonts. Hence the technical limitation of dumb black shapes. \r\n\r\n> clever hands\r\n\r\nI
    want these to render automatically and dynamically on the web. How can a web designer
    apply a realistic looking pencil font to blog headlines with current font formats?
    It's impossible.\r\n\r\nI want customers to be able to use these on the web. How
    can I define which parts of a glyph have higher specularity with current formats?
    It may seem pointless now, but when the web is 3D and surfaces can reflect light,
    we need systems in place to define these properties. When you tilt your iPad or
    move your head, parts of letters will shine in a pleasing way. Current print magazines
    have this feature. Perhaps it could be used to simulate hand painted lettering
    where the paint is partially dry. Where strokes overlap the paint is still shiny.
    Dots and dashes have heavier ink, take longer to dry and are very shiny. Perhaps
    what looked at first like a plain font actually has an intricate specular pattern
    when page angle is shifted. Unnecessary to readability? Yes. Awesome? Yes. It's
    not just a matter of how shiny a glyph can be, but which parts are shinier. It's
    not just \"treatment\". That kind of thought is the reason font designers are
    stuck with these bullshit, ancient formats. Having to use separate fonts with
    dots or lines to create gradients to define as attributes is stupid and looks
    like shit on the web. It's a clear sign that font formats were developed by people
    with no imagination. They must have looked at the fonts of the past and imagined
    that fonts in the future would be exactly the same. We've all seem beautiful calligraphy
    using semi-transparent inks; overlapping strokes which have have real depth. You
    can sense the speed of the brush by the variation of transparency. That's not
    just treatment. I want people to be able to set their blog headlines with fonts
    that can perform that way. No matter how clever a designer is, they can't get
    these effects using current formats without actually using a tablet and painting
    the letters \"by hand\". Even if they can, this doesn't address, what I see as
    the one of the main uses for display fonts in the near future: dynamically generated
    web headlines. Really look at pencil lettering and you'll realize that recreating
    this with OTF or TTF is impossible. It can't be done by clever designers with
    filters and effects. You need variable transparency. It's not just about simulating
    analog effect but discovering new ways of designing the alphabet.\r\n\r\n3D: this
    is not just treatment. I want to be able to define a real 3D mesh right in the
    font format. Yes, a designer can use current flat font formats to create their
    own 3D models of glyphs but I want to define those shapes myself. I want them
    to be rendered exactly in the shapes I've defined, not a generic 3D extrusion.
    Yes, I can sell 3DS models of letters but I want these things to be used as blog
    headlines, not manually set up and rendered. You've seen those wonderful; gold
    leaf. deep engraved letters that sign painters make? It's not the same effect
    as using some lousy \"extrude\" filter. The font designers need to be able to
    define these shapes precisely. Why can't I provide that to a customer? Because
    current font formats don't allow it. Not because I don't know how to 3D model.
    It's a format limitation.\r\n\r\nA blur channel isn't just treatment. How can
    I define what's transparent & blurry and what's just transparent? I want to define
    that if I want to. If a new font format had channels which could be defined, we
    could have as many definitions as we like. How else can I make a font out of alien
    ghost orb gel?\r\n\r\nAccent positioning: a smart font format should define how
    diacritics link to glyphs. A dumb, Reagan-era PostScript based font format (like
    OTF) actually contains every variation that the font designer could be bothered
    with. At least TTF has components, that's a little smarter. If I make a font with
    hundreds of letter variants, am I supposed to create hundreds or thousands more
    accented variations? If I'm supporting Vietnamese glyphs, am I supposed to throw
    in an another extra thousand variations to support every possible combination?
    The more languages are added the bigger the Unicode Private Use Area trash heap
    gets. I've made some textures fonts where I had to eliminate Vietnamese glyphs
    just to make the font load properly in Windows. It's hard enough dealing with
    complex textures but when you need to support more and more languages, the files
    can get really large and the time delay when Windows rasterizes it gets longer
    and longer.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-03 03:29:50'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Serious question: Who needs fonts with gradient fills etc? It is so easy
    to ad your own effects, why would a designer want to be tied down to the ones
    that  the type designer liked.\r\n\r\nI can just see the tidal wave of cheesiness
    that would follow. \r\n\r\nThe fact a thing can be made doesn't mean it should
    be made. :o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-03 03:45:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right, just like all typographers do their own kerning, in Quark, because
    they can, to avoid being tied down to the font designer's idea of spacing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    like nobody uses Photoshop filters, but makes their effects with the basic tools,
    just like in version 2.0.\r\n\r\nIf anybody is going to make animated crimson
    dimensional dripping blood typography, why not a type designer integrating the
    effect into the typeface?"
  created: '2010-05-03 04:11:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Accent positioning: a smart font format should define how diacritics
    link to glyphs.</em>\r\n\r\nEr, you mean like OpenType GPOS anchor attachment
    points for mark positioning?\r\n\r\n<em>The more languages are added the bigger
    the Unicode Private Use Area trash heap gets. </em>\r\n\r\nDon't use PUA for language
    support."
  created: '2010-05-03 04:51:11'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Well Nick, because if animated crimson dimensional dripping blood typography
    is really needed (cool as that sounds), it will not make the world a better place,
    and probably will have to be customized to the design it's need for in any event,
    and that customization is not difficult fo the graphic designer to do.  \r\n\r\nKerning
    s different. Its a basic question of functionality."
  created: '2010-05-03 05:01:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "How about flourishes, Russel?\r\nIsn't it better to have them integrated
    into the font design, rather than either \"snap on\", to be assembled by the typographer,
    or achieved by drawing them in Illustrator?\r\nHow are other potential effects
    generically different?\r\nThis is the age of smart fonts, since OpenType features.\r\nEither
    an end-user works on the basic typesetting that the font provides, or it is packaged
    as a labour-saving feature."
  created: '2010-05-03 06:09:56'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Not every font is a text font. There are other fonts called display fonts.
    What about using gradient alpha channels to adjust weight as opposed to thinner
    lines, dot and line patterns? Do you think I shouldn't have the tools to create
    that? What about realistic pencil lines? Look at real pencil writing? Achieving
    that with pure black and white is a farce. What about watercolor script? Real
    marker? Fake letterpress with varying ink transparency. It seems like you want
    to limit the technical capabilities of fonts as a matter of taste.\r\n\r\nAs for
    better dripping blood fonts, that's a good idea. Currently it's all the same on/off
    consistency. If if could be smeared with transparency, that would look more like
    real blood.\r\n\r\n> Er, you mean like OpenType GPOS anchor attachment points
    for mark positioning?\r\n\r\nYeah, like that except that it would be supported
    to the point where I wouldn't have to include my own accented versions.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R_6444.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-03 06:21:12'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "All good points, Nick and Ray.\r\n\r\nI was not asking to be contrary. I
    was just having a hard time getting my head around the point of some of those
    things.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-03 14:42:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'This kind of transparency could potentially be useful on text settings too.
    For example, if it''s true that serifs help serve readability by strengthening
    terminals, perhaps that strengthening could be accomplished in a sans face by
    relative opacity. '
  created: '2010-05-03 14:45:04'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "A very interesting thread. There are now so many fonts available, and more
    being churned out as young people discover the joys of making their own designs.
    Fonts reflect the personality of the designer and user, and hence their popularity.
    We are all the fools Eric Gill referred to to explain the variety of types. One
    can take the simile further. There is an infinite  variety of human faces based
    on a handful of common features (eyes, nose, mouth, etc.) yet we can recognize
    our loved ones, friends and enemies using subtle differences. Same with typefaces.
    And as rare as it is to find two identical human faces, fonts may look a lot alike
    yet have subtle differences that make one fine or noble, funny, leering, ugly,
    friendly, etc. etc.\r\n\r\nI second the need for one of typodermic's items in
    his wish-list:  skeletal linear fonts that can be defined by a few points. In
    use, thickness, stroke angle and other features allowed by such a font are applied.
    \ This would make Arabic type for example behave almost like the calligraphy it
    grew from. The software will have to be programmable to avoid clashes and other
    effects deemed ugly or otherwise unacceptable in the given script. A friend once
    explained to me in detail why such a system would not work, yet I hope it may
    one day.\r\n\r\nDare one mention animated effects and fonts that blush when the
    text gets too daring? Will the end of civilization as we know it be displayed
    in headlines made up of pulsating toothpaste-like florescent green 3D letters
    that emit little sounds as they read themselves aloud?  "
  created: '2010-05-03 16:34:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ray: <em>Yeah, like that except that it would be supported to the point where
    I wouldn't have to include my own accented versions.</em>\r\n\r\nWell that's not
    a font format issue, and a new format would put us back to where we were with
    OpenType in 1997."
  created: '2010-05-03 16:37:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Craig: <em>This kind of transparency could potentially be useful on text
    settings too. For example, if it's true that serifs help serve readability by
    strengthening terminals, perhaps that strengthening could be accomplished in a
    sans face by relative opacity.</em>\r\n\r\nBzzzzzt. Using relative opacity to
    strengthen some feature implies reducing opacity, and hence stroke density, in
    other features. One of the few really solid pieces of empirical evidence we have
    about legibility at typical text sizes is that strong, consistent stroke density
    is crucial, which is why antialiasing isn't preferable at all sizes and resolutions
    to b/w aliased bitmaps. So anything that involves reducing the opacity or otherwise
    diminishing stroke density is a bad idea for text readability.\r\n\r\nI think
    Ray's desiderata are almost entirely limited to display type. Which is not to
    say that they are ignorable. Ray, have you looked at <a href=\"http://www.photofont.com\">Photofont</a>?"
  created: '2010-05-03 16:46:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Vladimir: <em>Will the end of civilization as we know it be displayed in
    headlines made up of pulsating toothpaste-like florescent green 3D letters that
    emit little sounds as they read themselves aloud?</em>\r\n\r\nProbably, and I'm
    pretty sure that MS Word will support such features before it supports GPOS kerning."
  created: '2010-05-03 16:49:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Nick >After all, nobody could recreate, say, even well-known faces like Helvetica
    or Times from memory;\r\n\r\nSorry to veer back on topic, but I think John Downer
    has proved otherwise... \r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/nicksherman/1063935926/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-03 16:52:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Bzzzzzt</em>\r\n\r\nOkay then, forget opacity, how about just having
    blinking lights at the terminals? \r\n;-)"
  created: '2010-05-03 17:13:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>John Downer has proved otherwise...</em>\r\n\r\nHe painted a similar-looking
    grotesque.\r\nLook at the two \"S\"s on the right of his demo, they are different
    from one another, and in both the top counter is almost the same size as the bottom
    counter; in Helvetica, the top counter is smaller than the bottom one, the diagonal
    stroke slightly higher. "
  created: '2010-05-03 19:56:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Maybe \"proved\" is too strong. But John's point is that he believes it's
    possible to clone a font from memory, and that he's not the only person with such
    an ability. Although i don\u2019t agree with John on everything, I think that
    a sign painters consistency demonstrates that this might be possible."
  created: '2010-05-03 20:47:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: John Downer wasn't just recreating Helvetica from memory, he was also painting
    it freehand with a brush, with only horizontal guidelines. So I'm not surprised
    there is some variance in the letter shapes. The point is that he knows Helvetica
    well enough to hold the letters in his head, and presumably in another medium
    could reproduce it with even greater fidelity, e.g. as a digital font.
  created: '2010-05-04 02:11:22'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Photofonts: I never got into it because it didn't seem to be something that
    would catch on for general use. It was more of a gut feeling I had that it wasn't
    going to be the format that people were going to go for. If Photofonts had caught
    on, I'd have less to complain about. What I like about Photofonts is that I would
    be able to buy lots of tax deductible items to photograph. Sausages, carrots,
    licorice . . . I could use most of my groceries to generate fonts.\r\n\r\nAnother
    use for varied transparency could be to increase the visibility of certain aspect
    of extralights and ultralights. If you've designed an ultralight, one of the problems
    that always comes up is disappearing dots. A tittle can vanish if it's not lengthened
    or thickened (moan). Commas need exaggeration. Periods and diacriticals can be
    easily lost. Rather than fattening them up, you could increase the transparency
    of the rest of the font, leaving the little parts more opaque.\r\n\r\nAnother
    one: use transparency gradients to simulate capillary action of letterpress. Or
    perhaps better, do a similar effect in a non historical context. The edges of
    the shapes could remain sharp, while the middle of the shapes could be subtly
    transparent. The degree to which this is done could be used to fine tune overall
    color. It's one more tool apart from line width that we can work with. Craig mentioned
    beefing up the terminals by varying transparency: I've been itching to do that
    for years. I've seem it done in calligraphy. You can put more emphasis on the
    parts of a letterform that you think are important.\r\n\r\nStroke fonts: I'd love
    to see stroke fonts make a comeback. I'd like web designers to be able to declare
    stroke widths in their style sheets. Neato.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-04 03:42:55'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Back to the original direction of this thread. Everyone has a different idea
    of what's a  copy, what's close or what's nothing like the original. The more
    modular a font is, the greater the chance of coming to the same conclusion someone
    else has. When I made <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/221.html\">GGX88</a>,
    I made no visual references to Helvetica. It was commissioned as an set-top-box
    text companion for Avant Garde headings. I built a generic sans heavy weight.
    Balanced the widths and blended it to a mechanical ultralight. No Helvetica was
    used to make it. The more you balance a modular, sans-serif, expressionless grotesque,
    the more it looks like Helvetica. While there are many differences between GGX88
    and Helvetica, you can see a resemblance, right?\r\n\r\nAvant Garde is another
    font that's easy to inadvertently resemble. Make a geometric sans using circles
    straight lines and make rational optical adjustments. <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/59.html\">Rimouski</a>
    & <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/120.html\">Meloriac</a>.\r\n\r\nWhen I find
    myself in that kind of situation, I have to make a decision. Should I take it
    in another direction? Abort? What's more important? Making a useful font or coming
    across as original? As the century progresses, font designers will have to become
    more comfortable with how close they can get to existing designs, no?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-04 05:08:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The point is that he knows Helvetica well enough to hold the letters
    in his head, and presumably in another medium could reproduce it with even greater
    fidelity, e.g. as a digital font.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sure he could create a very
    convincing Helvetica from memory, but it would nonetheless be an interpretation.\r\n\r\nHere
    is the same character from three different Helvetica Regular fonts. (Helvetica,
    Helvetica Neue, and Helvetica BQ.) The cap height, sidebearings, stem width, proportions
    and curve shapes are different in each. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R_5961.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>As
    the century progresses, font designers will have to become more comfortable with
    how close they can get to existing designs, no?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not my intention."
  created: '2010-05-04 06:14:48'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: ">> As the century progresses, font designers will have to become more comfortable
    with how close they can get to existing designs, no?\r\n\r\n>> That's not my intention.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    now it's not an issue but add another half million fonts to the mix and all font
    designers will be treading close to existing designs no matter what they make.
    Maybe. My point is that the gaps between designs are getting filled in.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-04 11:29:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Relax Ray, history has no end.\r\nSure, with proliferation there is always
    an increase in \"ordinary\"  work, we've already seen that.\r\nBut there is always
    plenty of opportunity for new stuff, as Mark proved mathematically.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is not that there is nothing new, but that most people prefer something
    more familiar.\r\nSo strike the balance."
  created: '2010-05-04 17:50:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ray: <em>What I like about Photofonts is that I would be able to buy lots
    of tax deductible items to photograph. Sausages, carrots, licorice . . . I could
    use most of my groceries to generate fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're thinking way too
    small. Let's say I'm going to make a font out of carrots. First I need to grow
    the carrots, so I deduct the cost of the seeds. Then I deduct the cost of the
    lumber and power tools that I used to build the raise beds in which I plant the
    seeds. Then I deduct the cost of the fence I build around my property to prevent
    the deer from getting in to eat the carrot heads, not to mention the cost of the
    electronic opening gate."
  created: '2010-05-05 03:27:09'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em> John Downer wasn't just recreating Helvetica from memory, he was also
    painting it freehand with a brush, with only horizontal guidelines. So I'm not
    surprised there is some variance in the letter shapes.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn and John
    may have discovered the basic mechanism for font development - Darwinian evolution.
    Each new font varies slightly from the others, and the ones fittest for use survive. "
  created: '2010-05-06 02:24:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...prevent the deer from getting in...\r\n\r\nI live in a densely deer-populated
    area where they seem to be Harvard-educated and Olympic-trained, so repellent,
    which runs $10-$20 per gallon and lasts up to a year, is much more cost effective
    for the year-round carrot cultivation practiced here.\r\n\r\nI also had a student
    last year who did such a font with drawings of carrots, rather than the actually
    thing, which you can imagine does not render accurately on Windows or fit into
    a WOFF... so far.\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2010-05-08 13:29:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: A properly motivated deer can clear an 8' fence. Our fence is 6.5' in height,
    which is high enough to dissuade them from coming in, but low enough that they
    could escape if they were to come in and encounter the terrier. That seems fair,
    at least to the deer. The terrier doesn't think so, because she's quite partial
    to venison.
  created: '2010-05-08 18:40:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Each new font varies slightly from the others, and the ones fittest for
    use survive.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's rather a simplistic meritocracy.\r\nThe fonts
    that prosper can get a lot of help from being sponsored by the big dogs in the
    cultural ecosystem.\r\nHence the success of Comic Sans."
  created: '2010-05-08 23:09:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Our fence is 6.5' in height, which is high enough to dissuade them
    from coming in </cite>\r\n\r\nSo, taller than WOFF and EOT then, eh? ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 01:09:50'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>and the ones fittest for use survive.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe ones with the
    best promotion survive. \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 05:08:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite><cite> >> Each new font varies slightly from the others, and the ones
    fittest for use survive.</cite>\r\n\r\n> That's rather a simplistic meritocracy.\r\n>
    The fonts that prosper can get a lot of help from being sponsored by the big dogs
    in the cultural ecosystem.\r\n> Hence the success of Comic Sans.</cite>\r\n\r\nHence
    the success of Arial.\r\nThe success of Comic Sans, however, had to do with other
    factors."
  created: '2010-05-09 11:00:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think so.\r\nCertainly it fulfilled the need for a disconnected casual
    \"lay\" script, and may even have prompted demand for such a style.\r\nBut being
    distributed free by the million gave it a distinct adaptive edge over any <a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/archives/contemporary-handwriting-fonts/\">other
    species</a> occupying the same niche.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 18:25:17'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: The promotion of a particular font, the design-awareness of the public (or
    lack thereof) current fashions, cultural bias and so forth might be regarded as
    environmental factors that decide whether a font survives the competition or not.
    In that sense an analogy with Darwinian evolution may be possible. Fittest does
    not mean best!
  created: '2010-05-12 10:14:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Nick: Slots are still around too :)'
  created: '2010-05-12 11:41:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The promotion of a particular font ... might be regarded as environmental
    factors </em>\r\n\r\nWould you say that mass bundling of a small selection of
    fonts by Software megacorporations is natural?\r\nThat seems to be a neo-conservative
    ideology."
  created: '2010-05-12 20:37:12'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "<em> Would you say that mass bundling of a small selection of fonts by Software
    megacorporations is natural? </em>\r\n\r\nI was speculating in a rather abstract
    way about about how font design and usage change over the years, not expressing
    an opinion of what ought to be. But to answer your question yes it is in their
    predatory nature to do so - it seems to suit them. "
  created: '2010-05-13 00:29:16'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Thomas: <em>My biggest question at this point in time is that of the future
    of type design.</em>\r\n\r\nIt all will end with the <strong>Typocalypse</strong>,
    I reckon."
  created: '2010-05-25 19:04:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: For many, DTP <strong>was</strong> the typocalypse -- if you were in the typesetting
    business, or Massimo Vignelli reading <em>Emigre </em>magazine.
  created: '2010-05-25 19:25:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "And then again, the collapse in font prices around 1993-93 (approximately)
    was the next Typocalypse.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-26 03:32:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Fontageddon!
  created: '2010-05-27 17:27:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Fontageddon!\r\n\r\nWhat a coincidence!, and <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FzRH3iTQPrk\">here's</a>
    a trailer from a movie of the same name. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-28 13:24:41'
date: '2010-04-29 16:43:09'
node_type: forum
title: The Future of Type Design

---
