---
author:
  name: miha
  picture: 114097
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aaaaaa_4787.png]\r\nI made this just as
  a general info for those uniformed.\r\n\r\nIt is simplified, but generally speaking
  these are main possible paths with default settings.\r\n\r\nX axis is market share
  (with some guessing).\r\n\r\nI know a small examples of renderings could be included
  for better understanding, and I will post this & other refinements later.\r\n\r\nA
  few things not mentioned:\r\nLinux with FreeType rendering, but I have no idea how
  many people use subpixel rendering or other settings. Each setting has probably
  less than 1% of users.\r\nQuartz rendering does also other types than subpixel AA,
  but I would say they are in minority (I really don't know).\r\nThere is also an
  <em>old</em> version of Safari, with Quartz rendering on Windows with default setting.\r\nMobile
  market falls under Other, but some browsers aren't capable of displaying @font-face
  fonts anyway.\r\nPS: I made this quickly, I hope there is no huge mistake that I
  can not see...\r\n\r\n[edit: I made corrections and some changes. Old version is
  attached below.]"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Your bottom row is a bit confusing because there is ClearTyoe implementation
    within GDI, and this is distinguished from ClearType rendering in DirectWrite
    (which applies a combination of x-direction subpixel AA <em>and positioning</em>
    and y-direction greyscale AA to both TT and PS).\r\n\r\nIn IE6 and IE7, PS fonts
    cannot be served as EOTs, so the blue line to and from these browsers is misleading."
  created: '2010-05-07 22:40:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "This is a great reference, Miha. Thank you! \r\n\r\nA little grammar niggle:
    \"@font-face and its rendering\" (no apostrophe needed). Actually a simple \"@font-face
    rendering\" would be just fine.\r\n\r\nWhat about IE9?"
  created: '2010-05-08 08:54:49'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Thank you both for your comments, I corrected the mistakes and made improvements.
    I described ClearType in GDI as subpixel filtering to distinguish between Quartz
    with true AA in both directions.\r\n\r\nThe rendering examples are Droid fonts,
    which are good screen fonts. Maybe I should also include one example of a good
    print font with good readability &ndash; to make it more drastic :-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-08 20:06:58'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Miha, that's a great diagram!\r\nIt suggests that FF and Crome under XP do
    not do subpixel rendering at all; however, if CT is enabled in the system they
    do use it \u2013 maybe that could be reflected by a small comment in the left
    GDI box."
  created: '2010-05-09 08:48:56'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I added a line that other browsers respect OS settings. There are more possible
    scenarios, some users turn CT off &ndash; either in OS or in IE browser. If they
    turn it off in OS, they still see it in IE, but not in FF and others. And so on
    and on \u2026\r\nThe problem is that I have no data how many users actually change
    the defaults, and how.\r\n\r\nThere is also a type designer who has all control
    how to display TT-based font in Standard mode: when and if to display it aliased/greyscale.\r\n\r\nWeb
    designers haven't got a lot control, but they can force grayscale AA with CSS
    filters &ndash; CT enabled or not (in some browsers)."
  created: '2010-05-09 12:29:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The Mac also can Alias type at the user's option based on size, and can ignore
    the user options per font if the font is specifically named.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-09 12:30:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Great resource. You should really have a line with an autohinted serif (and
    perhaps one with no hints whatsoever) as well! After all, that\u2019s what causing
    this headache."
  created: '2010-05-20 22:01:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've been intending to do a flowchart something like this, to correct the
    common impression that there are some infinite number of results from the many
    combinations above. Nicely done!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-21 07:08:13'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: There isn't an infinite number of results but in addition to the four above
    there's aliased type and the oops I'm a slacker I'll just default to Times New
    Roman :D I think the slacker is the browser not the web designer.
  created: '2010-05-21 07:56:06'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Frode: Yes, it would be more useful, but a good comparison of rasterisers
    is harder [for me] and I didn\u2019t want to include it, although it is important.
    I only added some basic renderings as an example.\r\n\r\nYou probably already
    know about it, but here is the link anyway: <em><a href=\"http://kltf.de/kltf_notes_raster.htm\">The
    different faces of type</a></em> by Karsten."
  created: '2010-05-21 08:11:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">....to correct the common impression that there are some infinite number
    of results from the many combinations above. \r\n\r\nLol, this doesn't count fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-21 11:45:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Miha: I din\u2019t know about that one. Thanks! "
  created: '2010-05-21 12:32:20'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "As John Hudson noted, both subpixel AA and positioning are important for
    smaller text sizes.  Windows GDI (and Uniscribe) only provide positioning information
    at pixel boundaries.  The DirectWrite API allows both better subpixel AA *and*
    subpixel positioning, plus font sizes can be any arbitrary size (GDI limits font
    size to integer units).\r\n\r\nCompare this waterfall test on XP with a DirectWrite-enabled
    browser (IE9 beta or Firefox nightly with DirectWrite enabled):\r\nhttp://people.mozilla.org/~jdaggett/tests/decimalfontwaterfalls-default.html\r\n\r\nOn
    the Mac and with DirectWrite browsers you'll see a nice smooth waterfall.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing to note is that Webkit browsers don't do subpixel positioning, even when
    kerning is enabled.  There's some odd code that repositions glyphs to pixel boundaries
    but hopefully that's just legacy code that will get fixed at some point.\r\n\r\nFirefox4
    will probably also use Cleartype rendering on XP, similar to IE7/8, with an option
    to revert to standard GDI.  That patch landed today, it'll be in the nightlies
    in the next day or so.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 07:57:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">On the Mac and with DirectWrite browsers you'll see a nice smooth waterfall.\r\n\r\n...and
    as proven as far back as 1987(!), at the bottom of any \"smooth\" waterfall, are
    a bunch of unreadable sizes. Readability down there at text sizes in low resolution
    comes from non-smooth waterfalls, (and it always will). \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-27 12:35:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n>at the bottom of any \"smooth\" waterfall, are a bunch of
    unreadable sizes.\r\n\r\nYou're quite right.\r\nWhich is why all my test pages
    position the small text in the middle of the screen.\r\nAs is the case with <a
    href=\"http://eotfast.com\">EOTFAST's</a> File Integrity Test Page.\r\n\r\n@jdaggett\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the info/analysis. Interesting.\r\n\r\n@miha\r\n\r\nHave you thought about
    putting your illustration on a t-shirt? Add some border radiuses maybe to mitigate
    the rectangularitis, put the illustration on the back of the shirt, and come up
    with a kewl catch-phrase of some kind for the front. It's a winner."
  created: '2010-05-28 23:27:04'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "John (jdaggett): Thanks! I was wondering when/if FF will have CT rendering
    by default. Also, I am actually using Minefield (Firefox) with DirectWrite enabled
    for three months now. This is handy because the headlines of all those new web
    fonts render much better. But, unhinted fonts still look just like in GDI CT.\r\n\r\nRichard:
    LOL!"
  created: '2010-05-29 09:15:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@miha\r\n\r\nI'm dead serious. I'd buy it and wear it!\r\nHah!\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-29 14:33:52'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Isn\u2019t it a little too \u2026 geeky? Besides, there is a problem of accurately
    printing all those jagged pixels!\r\n:-)"
  created: '2010-05-29 15:13:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I just realized the title is somewhat misleading. This applies too web safe
    fonts as well. Anyway, I wondered if anyone could shead some light on what might
    cause this rendering:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sjekkdetta_4417.png]\r\nThe
    white opaque text is pixelated, while the same font at the same size just below
    use Cleartype."
  created: '2010-06-02 10:54:07'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Link would help. Maybe it is just an image, or Flash text using OS setting
    bypassing IE 7, 8, or \u2026"
  created: '2010-06-02 13:58:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "No, it\u2019s html text. I don\u2019t know the url. A friend asked me what
    caused this."
  created: '2010-06-02 14:25:22'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: Then it may be an IE alpha filter.
  created: '2010-06-02 15:48:07'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "And as usual Typophile denizens completely ignore FreeType with its many
    platforms.\r\nParticularly appalling considering how good it looks."
  created: '2010-08-12 09:39:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "FreeType wasn't ignored, it's included under \"Other\" on that first graphic.
    Given that FreeType rendering is probably a fraction of 1% of all page visits
    on the web, that seems pretty reasonable to me. The chart and discussion doesn't
    explicitly cover Windows 2000 and ME, or IE 4 and 5, either....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-12 10:35:23'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "I highly doubt that 1% number. Anyway, Droid fonts were made with Android
    and hence FreeType in mind.\r\n\r\nFor completeness\u2019 sake, here\u2019s how
    it looks\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/freetype-light_ah-lcd_4235.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    if you want to have a laugh and to confirm your point, here are the FreeType rendering
    \ in use, depending on preference and what the vendor distributes. Some certainly
    below 1%.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/freetype_4239.png]"
  created: '2010-08-12 17:33:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Don't get me wrong. I think FreeType rendering is not only interesting, but
    sometimes quite good. But it may be a little while before FreeType rendering is
    any significant proportion of folks looking at web pages. I based my <1% comment
    on previous looks at stats from various web tracking services that claim to measure
    such things. Looking at the latest from NetMarketShare, they would claim about
    1.7% for Linux and Java combined. Seems like StatCounter says something similar
    for Linux plus \"Other.\" So I'd say that I probably understated it, but I have
    no doubt total FreeType usage is under 2%.\r\n\r\nBTW, with these samples, it
    would be really helpful to explain what the various conditions mean and what causes
    them. What elements are controlled by user prefs, and what's their default? What
    elements are controlled by the vendor's choice(s)? What choices are the major
    vendors currently making?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-12 21:31:03'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "Let\u2019s not talk about percentages. Given the global number of people
    using the web, even one percent amounts to millions upon millions.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    glad to hear you\u2019re interested. I\u2019ll give you a fragmentary pr\xE9cis.\r\n\r\nThe
    FreeType library itself offers a range of render modes \u2013 each with tunable
    knobs \u2013 and among them some are disabled by <code>#ifdef</code> switches
    in the code. Some distributions compile those in and some don\u2019t (for confused
    IP reasons I suppose).\r\n\r\nFor instance, <dl><dt>OpenSuSe</dt> <dd>disables
    both LCD filtering and bytecode hinting interpreter (default is 5th sample).</dd>
    <dt>Fedora</dt> <dd>does use an LCD filter by default but it only offers the legacy
    type that is intra-pixel and looks horrible with light hinting. Hence they need
    pixel-snapping and use sample 3 by default.<dd> <dt>Ubuntu</dt> <dd>found out
    through user polls and outright flamewars that light hinting (unhinted in x, autohinted
    in y-axis) combined with a newer signal-processing LCD filter is preferred by
    most. Hence their default font rasterization is sample 1.</dd> <dt>Android</dt><dd>I\u2019m
    guessing from screenshots that they disable LCD filter and use light FreeType
    autohinter. Hence specimen 4.</dd><dt>monochrome is only used by maniacs</dt></dl>\r\n\r\nThis
    variance is compounded by the many ways to configure all the knobs \u2013 from
    config files (\u201D.fonts.conf\u201C) to high-level settings panels (\u201DBest
    Shapes\u201C, \u201CBest Contrast\u201D) \u2013 and the many different desktops
    and graphics libraries in use.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m assuming that browsers all obey
    the global desktop setting for their font rendering because if they didn\u2019t
    they would be spammed with bug reports until they do. When it comes to taste and
    preference there are two dug-in camps. The ones who prefer the signal-processing
    look and the ones who hail from the olden Unix (or Windows) days and insist on
    pixel snapping or superhinting.\r\n\r\nI think the former approach is the way
    forward, in particular because web fonts look good in it no matter what the format
    or feature set of the font is. The autohinter with the LCD filter is excellent,
    most robust, readable at small sizes and usable on scalable canvasses.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing lacking at the moment is subpixel positioning. Still getting odd kerning
    in waterfalls and animations due to integer pixel effects.\r\n\r\nThese are the
    options exposed in the config file.\r\n<code>\r\n\_\_antialias\_Bool\_Whether\_glyphs\_can\_be\_antialiased\r\n\_\_hinting\_\_\_Bool\_Whether\_the\_rasterizer\_should\_use\_hinting\r\n\_\_hintstyle\_Int\_\_Automatic\_hinting\_style:\_light,\_medium,\_full,\_none\r\n\_\_autohint\_\_Bool\_Use\_autohinter\_instead\_of\_normal\_hinter\r\n\_\_rgba\_\_\_\_\_\_Int\_\_unknown,\_rgb,\_bgr,\_vrgb,\_vbgr,\_none\_-\_subpixel\_geometry\r\n\_\_lcdfilter\_Int\_\_Type\_of\_LCD\_filter:\_lcddefault,\_lcdlight,\_lcdlegacy\r\n</code>"
  created: '2010-08-13 00:56:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "First, thank you for taking the time to explain some of the intricacies of
    FreeType's rendering options. Fascinating stuff!\r\n\r\nI do think that knowing
    the relative numbers of users is important, and things such as their geographical
    distribution. For example, if we were looking at rendering of Chinese or Indic
    characters, I'd be looking at the relative use of different rendering in those
    regions, and I might have very different ideas about the importance of considering
    FreeType's rendering.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, I share your preferences for
    the new sub-pixel filter. I think I'd have to see a wider range of fonts and sizes
    before I would want to venture a preference between light and full auto-hinter,
    though.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of the auto-hinter, for other folks reading this thread,
    I think I should explain something in the background here that could otherwise
    confuse some of them (I know *you* know this, and so do many of the likely readers,
    but I doubt everyone is aware of it)... \"hinting\" means something slightly different
    in this context than it often does elsewhere.\r\n\r\nAt the broadest level, though,
    the meaning is consistent. \"Hinting\" is additional code, applied to an outline
    font, which influences or even controls what a rasterizer does when rendering
    the font outlines to pixels or dots.\r\n\r\nIn the classic usage, the hinting
    code is created as part of designing or compiling the font, and the hinting is
    an integral part of the font file.\r\n\r\nBut what FreeType does is to ignore
    any hinting code in the font file, automatically hint the font on the fly, and
    then use that new hinting as input to the rendering of the font. Given that the
    FreeType auto-hinting is better than that in many (probably most) fonts out there,
    the results are likely to be reasonable. Especially so given that FreeType's auto-hinting
    is presumably tuned to work as well as possible with FreeType's rasterizer.\r\n\r\nThis
    is an important distinction, because a lot of people who develop fonts or web
    font services hang out here. The main take-away for them is that with FreeType,
    the hinting in the font is irrelevant. What matters for FreeType is the nature
    of the design and the quality of the outlines.\r\n\r\nI'd also be curious to see
    how equivalent outlines in perform in FreeType rendering when the variable is
    whether they are OpenType CFF vs TTF. That could be very interesting....\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nP.S.
    (edit) I welcome any corrections if I have misunderstood what FreeType is up to."
  created: '2010-08-13 02:48:53'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "<cite>This is an important distinction, because a lot of people who develop
    fonts or web font services hang out here. The main take-away for them is that
    with FreeType, the hinting in the font is irrelevant. What matters for FreeType
    is the nature of the design and the quality of the outlines.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    are spot on with this insight. And it surprised me that [[http://design.canonical.com/2010/08/the-first-milestone/|just
    that work]] went into crafting the [[http://typophile.com/node/68016|next Ubuntu
    system font]].\r\n\r\nThe only two reasons I can think of for commissioning the
    hinting was to make sure that it would look acceptable cross-platform when used
    as a webfont on corporate and community websites (just the topic of this thread)
    and to please the few users savvy enough to edit config files and enable the formerly
    \u201Dinfringing\u201C TrueType byte-code interpreter.\r\n\r\nNo idea if that\u2019s
    money well spent.\r\n\r\nI would guess that TrueType and CFF fonts are rastered
    identically. Are there examples in the wild that are straight conversions that
    I could use?"
  created: '2010-08-13 11:30:04'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@towolf:\r\n<cite>I would guess that TrueType and CFF fonts are rastered
    identically. Are there examples in the wild that are straight conversions that
    I could use?</cite>\r\n\r\nLinux libertine comes in both CFF and TTF flavoured,
    you may check it. I don't recall any difference in rendering between both, but
    I never paid close attention."
  created: '2010-08-13 13:41:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@towolf: I'd also be more than happy to do a quick conversion for you, of
    any open source font you care to name. Actually, I might do some outline attacks
    anyway, because what would be interesting to me would be to see if outlines optimized
    for a given outline format do any better than outlines just converted to that
    format. I'm thinking particularly what happens when one makes TTF from PS outlines
    without clean-up, or even (if one starts with non-cleaned-up TTF outlines) going
    the other direction.\r\n\r\nAssuming you're willing to sink some more time into
    doing the screen shots of course! :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-13 17:29:08'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "I\u2019m happy to provide samples for anything you throw at me. In the format
    you wish.\r\n\r\nKhaled\u2019s suggestion was a good one since the fonts are only
    a download away.\r\nApparently there are some differences both in outlines and
    in kerning. I have no idea if that is due to the fonts themselves. I suppose the
    tool used is FontForge.\r\n\r\nThis should be animated at 1\u2008Hz.:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Libertine-TT-vs-CFF_4719.gif]\r\nand
    difference view\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lib-difference_3858.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    since this thread is about @font-face, here\u2019s your blog both in 100% zoom
    and zoomed out (w/ Ctrl-Minus). Browser is Chromium 6. It certainly has worse
    font support than Mozilla at this point. In particular <code>text-rendering: optimizeLegibility;</code>
    where they enable kerning tables is kinda broken.\r\n\r\nYou can see how robust
    it is even at miniscule sizes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/phin2_3761.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/phin1_3694.png]"
  created: '2010-08-13 17:58:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Tom Phinney:\r\n\r\n>This is an important distinction, because a lot of people
    who develop fonts or web font services hang out here. \r\n\r\nI'm with you so
    far...\r\n\r\n>The main take-away for them is that with FreeType, the hinting
    in the font is irrelevant. \r\n\r\nSay what? With FreeType, the hinting in the
    font is as relevant as the FreeType implementation allows. \r\n\r\n>What matters
    for FreeType is the nature of the design and the quality of the outlines.\r\n\r\n...
    and this is not true of Cleartype or Quartz?\r\n\r\nThanks for the truly perplexing
    paragraph.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-14 12:56:18'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "<cite> In particular <code>text-rendering: optimizeLegibility;</code> where
    they enable kerning tables is kinda broken.</cite>\r\n\r\nI've found that optimizeLegibility
    makes text invisible in webOS and breaks <code>font-variant: small-caps</code>
    in some browsers, too. Could you detail what you saw in Chromium 6 Linux?"
  created: '2010-08-15 18:22:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@David B:\r\n\r\n>> The main take-away for them is that with FreeType, the
    hinting in the font is irrelevant.\r\n\r\n> Say what? With FreeType, the hinting
    in the font is as relevant as the FreeType implementation allows.\r\n\r\nTrue...
    but are any of the major implementations using the bytecode interpreter? I have
    the impression (and I'm open to correction) that pretty much everybody these days
    is using some version of the autohinter tech.\r\n\r\n>> What matters for FreeType
    is the nature of the design and the quality of the outlines.\r\n\r\n> ... and
    this is not true of Cleartype or Quartz?\r\n\r\nI might have more clearly said
    \"the only thing that matters\" instead of \"what matters\" (that is, hinting
    doesn't matter). This is equally (or more) true for Apple's Quartz rendering.
    But we've covered that ground before on Typophile.\r\n\r\nOf course the nature
    of the design and the quality of the outlines always matter for rendering and
    legibility. In the pre-ClearType and Mac Classic days one could use TT hinting
    to bend the outlines to one's will, but not so reliably today!\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-16 04:48:06'
- author:
    name: towolf
  body: "<cite>I've found that optimizeLegibility makes text invisible in webOS and
    breaks font-variant: small-caps in some browsers, too. Could you detail what you
    saw in Chromium 6 Linux?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think what you refer to is this: http://crbug.com/51973\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    seeing span-like HTML elements that run into each other and overlap. It looks
    as if the calculation of the widths of those happen before the adjustment by kerning
    is taken into account (or vice versa). The thing is, a page reload usually fixes
    things. Could be a sporadic Heisenbug, or a race condition.\r\n\r\nThe most reliably
    broken page I\u2019ve seen is one where the text block is unfolded by animation
    (again, fixed by toggling it):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenscrot-2010-08-16_400x164_5372.png]"
  created: '2010-08-16 11:43:31'
date: '2010-05-07 21:05:13'
title: '@font-face rendering'

---
