---
author:
  name: ophello
  picture: 119925
body: "I graduated from OSU with a BFA in Applied Visual Arts last year and have been
  doing freelance design since then. While I was at school, we had access to a large
  collection of fonts. I copied them to my computer and still have them on my machine
  (*everyone* did this). I use them regularly in my designs today.\r\n\r\nWhat do
  I do now that I'm out of school? I can't afford to pay for all the fonts I have
  on my machine...am I really supposed to make do with system fonts? Are font companies
  going to zero in on my house via GPS, bust my door in and arrest me for using their
  fonts in my work? Will the font designers rip all my posters down and declare me
  a thief? Will the ground open up and swallow me down to the 7th Circle of Hell?\r\n\r\nWhat's
  a broke freelance designer to do? Free fonts are usually crap."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What's a broke freelance designer to do? \r\n\r\nPerhaps a career move?
    \r\n\r\nPaying for fonts won't make you a successful designer. \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 19:33:08'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: If you're looking for absolution, you've come to the wrong place. Theft is
    theft...
  created: '2010-05-09 19:42:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If you're looking for absolution,\r\n\r\nTheory B. I have trouble believing
    any graphic designer would post a message like this, using their real name, location,
    educational background and web site (<A HREF=\"http://typophile.com/user/63535\">profile</A>),
    forever linking themselves to such behavior, thanks to the power of Google. So
    perhaps this is an attempt to discredit a competitor or the upstanding design
    students at Oregon State?\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 19:56:25'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Fonts are tools. Carpenters and mechanics pay for their tools, why shouldn't
    designers? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-09 19:56:53'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Worrying about this is a start. My suggestion is: try to be on the legal
    side. You can start by licensing the font you are going to use for your present
    work (normally you can charge your client a little extra so you can pay the fonts
    or at least a part of it). You don\u2019t need to buy all the family, just the
    weights you are going to use. If your buy is wise, probably those fonts will be
    useful for future works, so you can save the extra charge for the time you need
    to buy again. Repeat the process.\r\n\r\nType design implies a lot of time, maybe
    years just to develop a single family. It\u2019s fair to compensate to the guy
    who makes possible your work."
  created: '2010-05-09 20:16:27'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I use them regularly in my designs today.</cite>\r\n\r\nStop being
    a piker and charge the cost of the fonts back to your clients! Do you think a
    plumber would install a sink and not make you pay for the pipes?"
  created: '2010-05-09 20:17:00'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "\"If you're looking for absolution, you've come to the wrong place. Theft
    is theft...\"\r\n\r\nI'm not looking for absolution, I just want to do the right
    thing. A lot of designers...I dare say ALL students who graduate from design schools...do
    this regularly. I think it's a universal issue, not some isolated incident.\r\n\r\nMy
    work isn't exactly high-profile, and the most high-profile work I've done had
    fonts that my client already owned and had license to use so I'm not really worried
    that I've truly trespassed."
  created: '2010-05-09 20:31:19'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I should probably have clarified that the majority of my work has been based
    out of school, and they own all the font licenses for the fonts on their machines.
    I assumed that while I was working there, I had free-reign to use them.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I'll definitely start charging for font use as part of my user agreement. Thanks
    for all your feedback."
  created: '2010-05-09 20:39:05'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>A lot of designers...I dare say ALL students who graduate from design
    schools...do this regularly. I think it's a universal issue, not some isolated
    incident.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, and everyone on Wall Street was double-dealing, and
    putting together packages that they knew would fail. We all know how well that
    turned out..."
  created: '2010-05-09 21:31:54'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "I think it's a good sign of a developing moral sense that you are <em>aware</em>
    that you should pay for fonts -- at the very least for the ones you are using.\r\n\r\nMost
    people seem to think it's legal because the 'Web makes it easy to do, and don't
    spend another second thinking any further."
  created: '2010-05-09 22:15:22'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "<em>Most people seem to think it's legal because the 'Web makes it easy to
    do, and don't spend another second thinking any further.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the \"web\" is the issue here. He paid to go to school, they have the fonts (that
    he uses legally while he is there) and then he graduates. This isn't so cut-and-dry
    as everyone thinks.\r\n\r\nAnd the \"plumber\" metaphor works above, but it's
    hard to draw a metaphor here: it's not a normal circumstance to be paying to work
    under someone (school) and use their tools."
  created: '2010-05-09 22:20:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I have the dark vision of a one-hundred-post-thread with Ferraris, Audis and
    Porsches and with masses of little men that sneak through the cables and that
    ride on electromagnetic waves with all the golden glyphs on their backs and the
    kerning in their pockets.
  created: '2010-05-09 22:42:19'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "<cite>Fonts are tools.</cite>\r\n\r\nTools that can be copied infinitely
    without using resources will lose their value. It's like inflation: the more money
    becomes available, the less it is worth.\r\n\r\nThere is no universal accountability
    system in place for protecting the intellectual property of type and software
    designers. They're in the mix with every other type of digital media.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is a tricky one:\r\n\r\nA. people who are in college could be required
    to register the fonts and software on their computer in order to prevent piracy.
    But...\r\n\r\nB. those kind of accountability systems are perceived as a threat
    to privacy and many would be against it because of \"civil rights violations\"
    and a fear of \"Big Brother.\"\r\n\r\nI think piracy in this century is a huge
    issue and no single party is dealing with it fairly. The RIAA is suing the hell
    out of a few unlucky people, yet the perceived damages they did by sharing music
    was often blown completely out of proportion.\r\n\r\nIt's a story of the Big Suits
    \"trampling the rights\" of the little guy. It's a paranoid parade of confusion
    and conflict with no end in sight. Millions get off the hook and a few people
    are made to pay for their actions. This is clearly the wrong way about it. It
    is also the only way we've figured out.\r\n\r\nWhen a brilliant type designer
    slaves away three years to create a typeface that people want to use, they've
    really created something untouchable and invisible. This is the struggle that
    type and software designers face when publishing fonts.\r\n\r\nAs I continue my
    freelance enterprises, I will gladly start purchasing licenses for the typefaces
    I use. I simply haven't been able to afford it. I'm not a criminal -- just going
    through a learning process.\r\n\r\nIf colleges would offer a font umbrella and
    allow graduated students to work with their college's licenses legally until they
    are able to pay for licenses themselves, then we'd have at least a temporary solution.
    I also think my teachers should have talked about this stuff more. It was only
    ever mentioned in passing and most students never talked about it. The attitude
    was \"there's nothing we can do to stop it, so why bother?\""
  created: '2010-05-09 22:44:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>It's a story of the Big Suits \"trampling the rights\" of the little
    guy</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps in an alternate universe, \"owning\" tunes and fonts might
    rank right up there with Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness, but not in
    this one, Junior..."
  created: '2010-05-09 23:30:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Forget about the fonts you already have installed -- whatever their legal
    status.\r\nWhen you get a new project, use it as an opportunity to acquire a new
    typeface that is just right for the job at hand.\r\nSo many fonts, so little time.\r\nYou
    might find yourself falling back on certain faces that always come through for
    you, in which case, sure, pay to license them.\r\nMyriad Condensed and Scala were
    those faces for me, when I was art directing back in the '90s. And Helvetica,
    although I am loth to admit it!"
  created: '2010-05-09 23:32:19'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I'll probably cough up the money for a couple emigre fonts as well as Akzidenz-Grotesk
    and Roswell.\r\n\r\nAre the fonts that came installed on my machine licensed for
    my use commercially?"
  created: '2010-05-10 00:56:10'
- author:
    name: type.nasos
    picture: 112690
  body: "choose 2-3 fonts, that suits ur design.\r\nSince you are not student anymore,
    and you getting money from projects.\r\nStart putting on the side a certain percentage
    % of your profits for fonts\r\nas you said, fonts are good tools, treat them back
    nicely.\r\nAnd in notime you will have a good font library.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 10:13:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\n<em>As I continue my freelance enterprises, I will gladly start
    purchasing licenses for the typefaces I use. I simply haven't been able to afford
    it. I'm not a criminal -- just going through a learning process.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    guy reminds me of me and every other aspiring professional musician in the pre-digital
    era. (That's pre-digital, folks.)\r\nAt that time, purchasing the \"sheet music\"
    for popular songs was an impossible proposition. Pricing was geared for the amateur
    whose purchases were few and far between. And, of course, jazz tunes weren't published
    at all - somebody had to sit down and write out the melodies and chord changes.\r\nThe
    answer was - what was called at the time and probably still is - \"fake books\".
    These were black market compilations of tunes written out by professionals for
    other professionals and music students. (Also, the quality of the fakes were better
    than what was sold to the public, too. The chord changes (harmonies), especially,
    tended to be more accurate.)\r\nAt the Berklee College of Music, there was one
    fake book that everybody had and it was an indispensable \"textbook\" (but, of
    course, you couldn't buy it in a store) and you carried it with you all the time.\r\nIt
    was ironically titled \"The Real Book\" as a play on the phrase \"fake book\"
    and because of the accuracy I mentioned - to musicians, an inside joke.\r\nFar
    from harming anyone, it served a great good. I wish I still had my collection
    of fake books, but they got lost in the shuffle years ago.\r\n\r\nI can't imagine
    how an aspiring  designer is supposed to learn to handle typefaces if they don't
    have a \"learning\" collection.\r\nThat's just my take on ophello's post - I think
    it's for real. And even if he isn't, his problems are.\r\nNot looking to debate
    this back and forth. He just reminded me of me.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 13:56:21'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "The great thing about actually purchasing type rather than just downloading
    them en masse is that it forces you to curate, which I find an important part
    of the design process. \r\n\r\nYou don't need hundreds of typefaces. Typically,
    you  just need one or two that are right for the job at hand. "
  created: '2010-05-10 15:17:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>I can't imagine how an aspiring designer is supposed to learn to
    handle typefaces if they don't have a \"learning\" collection.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    this case, ophello reports that as a student he had access to a large number of
    fonts, which he then copied to his computer and took with him when he ceased being
    a student. Presuming -- a big presumption -- that the school had legitimately
    licensed all those fonts for use by its students, there you have both the learning
    collection you suggest is necessary and the legitimate learning context in which
    it is used. If someone failed during his or her time as a student to learn to
    handle type while having access to such a collection, that is either an individual
    failing or reflects badly on the school and its curriculum; in either case, it
    isn't resolved by an individual making copies of all those fonts and continuing
    to work with them after he or she has ceased to be a student at that institution.\r\n\r\nOphello,
    the first thing for you to do, if you genuinely want to do the right thing, is
    to delete from your system any font for which you do not have a license that permits
    it to be installed on your system. You will still have a lot of fonts left: fonts
    that came with your system, fonts that came bundled with software, plus any fonts
    that you have licensed. In fact, you'll still have enough fonts to constitute
    something like Rich's \u2018learning collection\u2019 if that is what you want
    or need. Some of these fonts will be appropriate for some jobs, and for other
    jobs you can build the price of new font licenses into your design fee."
  created: '2010-05-10 18:16:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"Theory B. I have trouble believing any graphic designer would post a message\u2026\"\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    Sounds like an angry friend, troll or someone trying generate dialogue about the
    cost of fonts to simply monitor the conversation that follows. That, or some sort
    of bizarre attempt at \"social media networking.\" \r\n\r\nFail."
  created: '2010-05-10 18:30:49'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "I wouldn't say delete them. What's the point? Just don't use them/publish
    your works using them.\r\n\r\nI'd say keep them, as a way to test purchasing options
    in the future. There's no harm in having them for your own experimental use, especially
    if in an upcoming project you decide one is necessary for the design. You can
    easily test it out and then decide if you want to purchase your own copy."
  created: '2010-05-10 19:16:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Do college design classes even teach about font licensing?  (I graduated in
    the days before desktop publishing, so it wasn't an issue in those days.)
  created: '2010-05-10 19:46:15'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "In my experiences, colleges don't really teach about \"fonts\" (as a whole)...
    they leave that up to you, which I prefer. Especially not licensing. This definitely
    helps separate the ones there for a degree and the ones there for passion/actual
    interest. In my Senior year, there were people who had been there for 4 years
    with me, but still had no idea of the difference between Opentype and Truetype
    or who Herb Lubalin was. It would be nice if they delved into licensing, however.\r\n\r\nClasses
    can only cover so much, you know? There is a type design course as well, but it's
    only offered to graduates. I wanted to take that course, but not enough people
    (less than 5... I don't understand it) signed up, so it was dropped. Guess I'm
    stuck to training myself again."
  created: '2010-05-10 20:55:12'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: My college taught a bit about licensing- and they were very strict about not
    allowing us to copy fonts from their computers.
  created: '2010-05-10 21:17:38'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "<cite>Agreed. Sounds like an angry friend, troll or someone trying generate
    dialogue about the cost of fonts to simply monitor the conversation that follows.
    That, or some sort of bizarre attempt at \"social media networking.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nOR...I'm
    a real person and everything I've said is true. Why is that so hard to believe?\r\n\r\nI'm
    getting kind of annoyed with the animosity in here. I didn't kill your cat. I
    just have fonts on my system from college, a few of which have been used and the
    vast majority of which are simply rotting on my hard drive.\r\n\r\nI think I've
    made it clear that it is my intention to start purchasing fonts regularly."
  created: '2010-05-11 00:15:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I'm getting kind of annoyed with the animosity in here. I didn't kill
    your cat. I just have fonts on my system from college (99% of which have never
    been used in any of my work, BTW. They're just there.)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, what
    exactly did you expect? A number of members of this forum, myself included, derive
    their sole source of income from the sale of their fonts. Your lame attempt to
    excuse your behavior with the bromide \"everybody does it\" doesn't hold water;
    everybody did it on Wall Street, and it cost the American taxpayers the better
    part of a trillion dollars to clean up the mess. I am willing to bet that you
    wouldn't attempt to pilfer a music CD from an actual brick-and-mortar store, if
    only because getting caught would have unpleasant consequences. What in the world
    makes you--and, evidently, every other member of your generation--think that theft
    of \"non-tangible\" items is any different? The bottom line is the same: the people
    who put out the effort to create the digital goods you enjoy don't get paid for
    those efforts, plain and simple..."
  created: '2010-05-11 00:22:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Steve: <em>I wouldn't say delete them. What's the point? Just don't use them/publish
    your works using them. I'd say keep them, as a way to test purchasing options
    in the future. There's no harm in having them for your own experimental use, especially
    if in an upcoming project you decide one is necessary for the design. You can
    easily test it out and then decide if you want to purchase your own copy.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    original post indicate that \u2018ophello\u2019 wants to \u2018do the right thing\u2019.
    Unless a license for the fonts specifically permits their installation for test
    purposes as you suggest, any installation of this fonts on a system is unlicensed.
    Believing that one is not doing any harm is not the same as doing the right thing. "
  created: '2010-05-11 00:57:58'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "<cite>Your lame attempt to excuse your behavior with the bromide \"everybody
    does it\" doesn't hold water</cite>\r\n\r\nAt no point did I ever attempt to \"excuse
    myself\" from anything. I was stating a fact without qualifiers: everyone pirates.
    Everyone. It can't be stopped and will never be stopped unless the internet gestapo
    puts a strangle-hold on every computer connected to the internet \u2013 which
    is a solution that I dare say even you would be violently opposed to. The consequences
    of piracy are not black and white, as you'd like them to be.\r\n\r\nBy the way...the
    argument that pirating music is \"hurting musicians\" has been debunked repeatedly
    by people who know a lot more about this stuff than I do. The music industry is
    doing just fine. Their CD sales are slumping because it makes no sense to burn
    the fuel to create the plastic and spin the data onto them and print them and
    package them and ship them and label them and sell them in a store when one mouse
    click does it all in the blink of an eye. It's a stupid waste of resources to
    print physical CDs.\r\n\r\nAuto-Tune EFX is a piece of pitch-correction software
    (which I own, BTW) that doesn't work unless you have a special USB dongle with
    licenses on it connected to your computer. That seems like a solution to me."
  created: '2010-05-11 01:04:14'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "Here's a utopian idea. Tell me if you think this would work:\r\n\r\nFont
    designers are all paid in full by one single type foundry. If you spend 9 months
    creating a typeface, you are paid for 9 months of work. If you're starting out,
    you pay the font foundry to advertise it for you and see if it becomes popular
    or useful. The more often your font is used, the more shares of the company you
    get.\r\n\r\nThe foundry makes money from membership fees, advertising on their
    website, holding design conferences and type workshops, and licensing their software
    security protocols to design companies like Adobe who agree to make their software
    work exclusively with the foundry.\r\n\r\nUsers pay a monthly fee and get access
    to any font they want for as long as they want. The more they pay, the more fonts
    they have access to. The fonts can only be used by purchasing a special USB dongle
    that activates their use on the computer. They aren't actually stored on the computer
    but exist entirely on the internet and cannot be downloaded or pirated.\r\n\r\nProblem
    solved?"
  created: '2010-05-11 01:24:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The music industry is doing just fine.\r\n\r\nYou lost me there. "
  created: '2010-05-11 01:55:17'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: 'I''ll repeat myself: the music industry, aside from CD sales, is doing just
    fine. True fact.'
  created: '2010-05-11 02:02:47'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>I'll repeat myself: the music industry, aside from CD sales, is doing just
    fine. True fact.<<\r\n\r\nShould I send you the list of musicians I know that
    can't survive on the money they make as musicians? Or should I just point you
    to the sites where you can download their music without them seeing a dime for
    it?"
  created: '2010-05-11 02:21:36'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "Do your musician friends utilize the internet to promote themselves? Twitter?
    Facebook groups? Do they perform regularly? Sell merchandise?\r\n\r\nWhen I say
    \"music industry,\" I'm referring to the RIAA and the Big 5. Musicians themselves
    have a lot to learn about making it in this economy. Trent Reznor is a good source
    of info on making money as a musician.\r\n\r\nAnd if they can't \"survive as musicians,\"
    is that necessarily the fault of piracy? It's easy to blame piracy but you can't
    just connect the dots directly.\r\n\r\nMost musicians starting out giving their
    music for free. It's a new paradigm, and it sneaked up on us fast."
  created: '2010-05-11 03:06:09'
- author:
    name: Nostratypus
    picture: 118080
  body: "Is it a Duck\r\nBehind this treachery?\r\nThis Thievery?\r\nNay, I say.\r\n'Tis
    a Beaver."
  created: '2010-05-11 03:34:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: What does music have to do with this? Fonts are professional tools, not consumer
    media. Ophello has identified himself as a graphic design professional, i.e. someone
    who uses fonts to add value to his work and who makes money from that activity.
    There is no parallel between professional tools and consumer media, whether one
    is talking about physical form or digital.
  created: '2010-05-11 03:56:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">'Tis a Beaver.\r\n\r\nPerhaps its a case of a Beaver catching Duck font
    envy... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.kval.com/sports/local/48921497.html"
  created: '2010-05-11 04:15:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  It's easy to blame [music] piracy but you can't just \r\n>  connect the
    dots directly...\r\n\r\nOh dear... I started out sympathetic to you, Ophello \u2014
    \ you were looking for advice on how to start making things right -- but now you
    seem to be veering in the general direction of defending piracy, or at least implying
    that it doesn't do much harm.\r\n\r\nSome of the folks here make their living
    selling fonts, so piracy is going to be a touchy subject, to put it mildly. As
    the ship captain said in Master & Commander, \"You've come to the wrong shop for
    anarchy.\" \r\n\r\nI liked Nick Shinn's advice -- just use your upcoming projects
    as opportunities to gradually build a nice collection of legal-obtained fonts.
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 06:34:38'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "If you read all my posts, you'd see my line of thinking.\r\n\r\n<cite>What
    does music have to do with this?</cite>\r\n\r\nA lot, actually. Name this:\r\n\r\n1.
    A form of digital information that people work hard producing?\r\n2. Sold through
    \"official\" outlets?\r\n3. Millions get away with pirating it?\r\n4. A few unlucky
    pirates are fined disproportionately to make up for lost revenue?\r\n\r\nFonts
    and music both fit into these categories. While I admit that they aren't the same
    thing, the discussion became centered around piracy in general, and that's why
    I brought it up.\r\n\r\n<cite>...you seem to be veering in the general direction
    of defending piracy, or at least implying that it doesn't do much harm.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    miss my point, again. I am not defending piracy. I am saying there is nothing
    anyone can do about it. There's a difference.\r\n\r\nAs for music: http://www.ultimate-guitar.com/news/industry_news/is_piracy_really_killing_the_music_industry.html\r\n\r\nWar
    on Piracy is like the War on Drugs or the War on Terrorism - it will never end."
  created: '2010-05-11 09:49:56'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=up863eQKGUI\r\n\r\nAnd the sequel...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hUCyvw4w_yk"
  created: '2010-05-11 10:18:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Oh never mind.
  created: '2010-05-11 11:39:34'
- author:
    name: type.nasos
    picture: 112690
  body: "mmm, i miss something, despite whatever piracy, \r\nwhen you choose a song,
    band to accompany\r\nyour design, if thats for example an AD, tv spot or\r\n what
    so ever, try do that without a proper license.\r\nOf course, you can obtain it
    in seconds from pirate \r\nwebsites, but use it commercial its a total \r\ndifferent
    story. If you want to compare industries, \r\ncompare their usage, not so general.
    \r\nI dont believe noone will give a crap if you print in \r\na pirate font, a
    note to the back of your sister \"kick me\" or \"cut my hair\"\r\nbut if u gonna
    get money out of it, well thats a different story. "
  created: '2010-05-11 12:32:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Please don't sue me!\r\n\r\nOkay. I'll make sure you are on our do-not-sue
    list.\r\n\r\n>War on Piracy is like the War on Drugs or the War on Terrorism -
    it will never end.\r\n\r\nWell, the wars on drugs and terrorism most assuredly
    end for individuals.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 13:02:21'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> You miss my point, again. I am not defending piracy.\r\n\r\nOphello, when
    you use phrases like \"internet gestapo\", and when you imply that piracy doesn't
    really hurt the content creators all that much, it's gonna create that impression.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 13:31:39'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "It's fun to make music industry analogies with fonts, believe me, I try.
    There are more differences than similarities between digital music and digital
    fonts.\r\n\r\nSimilarities:\r\n\r\nFonts and music can be easily downloaded, distributed
    and shared.\r\nFonts and music are subject to fashion. Some songs/fonts are classics,
    some are not and diminish in value until they're eventually considered ironically
    cool.\r\n\r\nDifferences:\r\n\r\nFonts are tools for professional designers to
    use in their businesses while music is usually for personal use. When someone
    uses a font, they're likely \"broadcasting\" it in some way: using it on a website,
    a poster, and album cover . . . the font gets seen by many people. That can have
    the negative effect of overexposure. A novel display font doesn't seem as novel
    when it's seen by the public. Music normally isn't broadcast by illegal downloaders.
    While illegally downloading music can reduce the number of potential sales, listening
    to it doesn't actually reduce the perceived value of the music. I can listen to
    a pirated song 1000 times and it doesn't affect the perceived value of the song
    to other people. Unlike music, the fashion cycle of fonts is based less on trends
    and more based on public exposure of individual fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 14:04:41'
- author:
    name: Kwesi Amuti
    picture: 112613
  body: "So let me get this straight...not a one of you responders have done what
    the original poster has done to find out about a typeface or its inner workings
    or used an unlicensed font for an overly insistent client or that first design
    job to get you on your feet? \r\n\r\nInteresting..."
  created: '2010-05-11 15:56:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "There's are as many similarities as there are differences when comparing
    different types digital IP infringement (or physical theft, for that matter).
    \r\n\r\nThe only sure thing is that, on Typophile, you're naturally going to come
    up against a majority that don't like it. "
  created: '2010-05-11 18:34:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Whether in music or fonts, the idea that piracy doesn''t hurt the producers
    in any significant way I think has nothing to do with ethics, law, or reality.
    It is just a convenient self-deception by those who want to pirate and not feel
    feel too badly about it. '
  created: '2010-05-11 19:18:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Don't get me started on bundling, Bill :-)
  created: '2010-05-11 19:28:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I have the dark vision of a one-hundred-post-thread \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nHalftime."
  created: '2010-05-11 21:04:18'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello, ophello-\r\n\r\nMy suggestion is that you keep your ill-gotten fonts,
    but every time you make a design using any those fonts you make sure your client
    buys an appropriate licence for that font.\r\n\r\nI know that in Finland just
    about every student copies all the fonts from their school, so that is not unique.
    Just don't abuse them, but let them work for you.\r\n\r\nOr else I'll come and
    kneecap you: P, Vancouver, Washinton, USA."
  created: '2010-05-11 22:56:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tomi\r\n\r\nWhoa. I didn't know you were so tough. Why don't we just send
    somebody to cap his dumb ass right now? On general principles? :-)\r\n\r\n@william
    berkson\r\nUh, I still haven't seen any newspapers charging for content. Will
    Japanese food work for you in LA? I can taste it already.\r\nI stopped using the
    term piracy awhile ago. It just stopped having a useful meaning to me. Counter
    productive. Non-illuminating. And copying is not theft, no matter how you want
    to parse words. I'm not saying it's OK or not OK. Just that copying is not theft.
    Two different things. \"Nonrivalrous\". Now, copying might be a crime that's punishable
    under certain circumstances, but it isn't theft. Ever.\r\n\r\nEven if you view
    information as a life-form, which some people do, copying isn't kidnapping, either.\r\n\r\nOne
    difference between music and fonts - and I guess it applies to all code - is that
    with music, the underlying structure isn't masked in any way. What you hear is
    all there is. It's laid out. Same with a book. You can build on what you've heard
    or read. But with code, unless you can get to the source, you can't build on it.\r\nAnd
    that presents a big problem as our reliance on digital tech grows, and grows,
    and grows.\r\nI don't know what to do about it - but I know a situation that's
    ripe for abuse when I see one.\r\n\r\nciao,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 23:55:41'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Richard-\r\n\r\nI do not think there is any P living in Vancouver, Washington,
    USA. Or any Vancouver in Washington, USA."
  created: '2010-05-12 00:00:18'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "OK, I just found out that there is a Vancouver right next to Portland. But
    try to find a P to kneecap there\u2026"
  created: '2010-05-12 00:05:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ophello: <em>Fonts and music both fit into these categories. While I admit
    that they aren't the same thing, the discussion became centered around piracy
    in general, and that's why I brought it up.</em>\r\n\r\nFonts and music both fit
    into the categories of\r\n\r\n5. Things I think about at least once every day.\r\n6.
    Things that sometimes make me happy and sometimes make me sad.\r\n7. A lot of
    other categories.\r\n\r\nSo what? Fonts are professional tools from which you,
    as a design professional, derive added value that contributes to your income,
    and music is a consumable. If you were a music professional, in some way deriving
    value from downloaded music that contributed to your income, then it would make
    sense to talk about music in the way in which we need to talk about fonts. But
    it makes no sense to talk about fonts in the way in which you want to talk about
    music, which is irrelevant to your profession.\r\n\r\nDiscussions about font piracy
    do tend to drift into talk about general piracy, but that's because people like
    you make sloppy analogies and overlook significant differences."
  created: '2010-05-12 01:05:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Uh, I still haven't seen any newspapers charging for content.\r\n\r\nThey
    have for hundreds of years, it's called a subscription. And as to on line, the
    Wall Street Journal has, and the others are going to charge soon, or there are
    going to be few newspapers left. \r\n\r\nJohn, a bunch of people just don't believe
    in intellectual property rights, and that's where music, fonts and other software
    are in the same boat.\r\n\r\nI think that's where these discussions usually end
    up pretty quickly, as this one has.  "
  created: '2010-05-12 01:15:36'
- author:
    name: octopi
    picture: 110705
  body: "[[You miss my point, again. I am not defending piracy. I am saying there
    is nothing anyone can do about it. There's a difference.]]\r\n\r\nSo, you're saying
    because there is nothing anyone can do about it, and in an earlier post, \"everyone
    does it\" that it is ok to do it? I mean, you have already said that you have
    done it and yet you say you want to do the right thing and yet you STILL have
    these fonts on your system.\r\n\r\nNo matter how you look at it, these are the
    facts: You need a license to use the fonts you took from your college. You don't
    have said licence therefore you cannot legally use them. So the 'right' thing
    to do is delete them.\r\n\r\nNow if you don't want to delete them that is your
    choice, I certainly wouldn't judge you for it but try to sort out what it is you're
    actually talking about, because I don't think you know what the hell you're talking
    about.\r\n\r\nThe right thing to do is clear. Either do it or don't do it instead
    of starting pointless arguments that you have created yourself."
  created: '2010-05-12 01:46:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I do not think there is any P living in Vancouver, Washington, USA. \r\n\r\nP
    updated his profile to deliete his full name, which made it easy to locate his
    web site, client list etc., if you're interested in checking out his portfolio
    feel free to contact me off-list, but only if you swear on a stack of type specimens
    that there will be no violence. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-12 04:23:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do you blame me for deleting that? \r\n\r\nNot at all. And you deserve respect
    for re-identifying yourself. Sincere best wishes for the future. \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-12 05:48:21'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "<cite>P updated his profile to deliete his full name, which made it easy
    to locate his web site, client list etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you blame me for deleting
    that? Some of you are making joking threats about busting in my kneecaps. You'd
    do the same. What I really DON'T need is financial ruin because some errant person
    on Typophile thinks I deserve it.\r\n\r\nI'm trying to find work in Portland.
    I'm staying with my dad in Vancouver. I've got a client in NYC who's paying me
    for the fonts I've used in their design (these are new developments, btw. I can
    use a few of these fonts legally now).\r\n\r\n<cite>if you're interested in checking
    out his portfolio feel free to contact me off-list, but only if you swear on a
    stack of type specimens that there will be no violence.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon't bother,
    here it is:\r\nhttp://www.hennesseydesign.com/\r\n\r\nThe work I've done (now
    that I've gone through to take a good look) was all done either:\r\n1. as an intern
    in a design firm\r\n2. in college using fonts on their computers\r\n\r\nI used
    an emigre font on my website which I created in an interactive design class at
    OSU. I think that's probably legit as far as legal use is concerned.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    use them regularly in my designs today.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs for my comment in the
    first post, I took some time today to look at the work I've done since I left
    school (in reality, I didn't start getting projects until December of last year).
    I used Trajan, but that comes on every mac. I used \"alte haus grotesk\" for my
    friends music page, but that's a free font. I used Roswell, but that font license
    is owned by my client in Seattle (so she says...but I wonder if that since SHE
    has the font that doesn't mean that *I* can use it...).\r\n\r\nIn conclusion,
    I think I was a little premature in suggesting that I've been rampantly using
    my ill-gotten fonts. So let's all ease off my back, pretty please, and thanks."
  created: '2010-05-12 05:51:19'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "<cite>Now if you don't want to delete them that is your choice, I certainly
    wouldn't judge you for it but try to sort out what it is you're actually talking
    about, because I don't think you know what the hell you're talking about.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know exactly what I'm talking about. I don't always take the time to type out
    every thought or plan for every contingency. But I know exactly what I say and
    mean.\r\n\r\nAt no point (check my posts...I did.) did I <cite>ever</cite> say
    \"Font piracy is great and doesn't hurt anyone.\" (I may have said that about
    the Music Industry, but that's not what Typophile users seem interested in, apparently.
    I drew a parallel between font piracy and music piracy and a few of you think
    I missed the point. Well, I didn't. Conversations tend to drift in message forums...don't
    read too much into it.)\r\n\r\nHere's the story: I <cite>had</cite> to work from
    my dorm. I didn't feel like walking a mile to the computer lab to work. Everyone
    there had the lazy eye and it's a creepy place to be between the hours of 10pm
    and 4am. To avoid these unpleasant visits and to be able to work on my design
    projects from home, I copied the fonts to my computer <cite>as a convenience.</cite>
    EVERYONE DID THIS. (THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT'S \"RIGHT\"). That's all that I mean
    by \"everyone did this.\" Everyone did it. It was the culture, the unspoken rule.
    \"Well of COURSE you copy the fonts, why wouldn't you?\" There was an entire server
    dedicated to fonts that all design students could access. No professor ever said
    the words \"Do not copy those fonts.\" There was no Culture of Accountability
    (a made-up buzz phrase that really should be used more often).\r\n\r\nIt is really
    that hard to understand my position? What would you have done differently? I continually
    try to explain what happened, what my moral stance on it is, what I think I want
    to do differently...I'm done arguing and explaining. It's pointless. I've made
    my experiences and intentions perfectly clear."
  created: '2010-05-12 07:00:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You don't have said licence therefore you cannot legally use them. So the
    'right' thing to do is delete them.\"\r\n\r\nTo clarify, the 'legal' thing is
    is to delete them.\r\n\r\n\"The right thing to do is clear.\"\r\n\r\nTo an individual
    it is. But everyone has a different POV as to what is 'right' so hence these mega-threads
    sprout up. "
  created: '2010-05-12 15:29:32'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@ophello\r\n\r\nI always read this topic, but I didn't have time of answering
    your message:\r\n\r\n<em>War on Piracy is like the War on Drugs or the War on
    Terrorism - it will never end.</em>\r\n\r\nI disagree totally with you. First
    I explain the difference among piracy, drugs and terrorism and after I'm going
    to explain why the pirates steal the fonts. \r\n\r\nPiracy aren't related with
    the drugs and the terrorism. Drugs are related with the traffic, but the traffic
    isn't related with the piracy because the drugs are illegal, but not prate, the
    words 'illegal' and \"pirate\" are different words. Illegal is criminal and piracte
    is copy or clone. Terrorism is related with religious and politic fanaticism,
    extremism and radicalisms. The religious or politic fanatics, extremists and radicalists
    aren't pirate because they don't steal, they just kill, therefore, they're only
    terrorists. Pirate aren't terrorist because they don't use the airplanes to beat
    the World Trade Center, don't use the boms to burn out the places for killing
    the people.\r\n\r\nPirate just attack and kill the people and steal the tings.
    Pirates are those who love <strong>STEALING and WISHING</strong> the excellent,
    expensive and bright things. At the film \"Pirate of the Caribbean Islands\",
    the piraes attacked the city, killed the people and stole many things, including
    that woman. What did they want to <strong>STEAL and WISH</strong>? In the end,
    they <strong>WISHED</strong> the real life, then they stole it. In the second
    parte, the pirates want to <strong>WISH and STEAL</strong> the heart for living
    eternally and at the fairytake, they want to <strong>WISH and STEAL</strong> the
    golds and the money hidden in thetrunk.\r\n\r\n<strong>Why do the pirates steal
    the fonts?</strong>\r\n\r\nBecause they <strong>WISH</strong> the excellent, most
    expensive and bright fonts, therefore, they hack and <strong>steal</strong> them.
    But why? Because the fonts can be bought only with the credit card, as Visa, Mastercard,
    etc. Therefore, the pirates want to buy the fonts with the money, the won national
    currencies or with the \"payment coupcon\", but the fonts eletronic shops don't
    accept them, they want only the dollar, euro or pound and the credit cards, then
    they're furious, gang for attacking, hacking and stealing the fonts as if the
    pirates of the fairytake gangged for attacking and destroying the another ship
    with the England flag. The pirates hate the fonts shops and the type designers
    as if the pirates hated the English people. Why do they hate them? Because the
    fonts shops and tye designers are greed, but the type designers aren't conscient
    of that. They don't recognise their mistakes, as absence of responsibility. The
    type designers aren't conscient of that the clients buy the fonts or download
    the free original fonts without reading the EULA INfo notepad or PDF for using
    them unintended for the commercial use because they just ignore them, or because
    they don't understand or speak English and don't know what EULA is. The type designers
    forgot of writting the name's notepad \"PLEASE READ THE RULES\" in the place of
    \"FONT INFO\", and forget of translating the notepads into other languges for
    the clients to understand the notepads in another languages and after they'll
    obey the rules of EULA. \r\n\r\nType deisgners may be conscient of all that. Type
    designers must warn the fonts shops that they tell the clients before of buying
    the fonts or downbloading the free original fonts, if the font wished is or not
    for commercial use, they must ask the fonts shops to translate the fonts EULA
    rules into other languages. They must put a phrase \"PLEASE READ THE FONT RULES
    BEFORE BUYING OR DOWNLOADING THE FREE FONT\" on their own site in several languages
    and the client will understand the rules and obey the rules. They must add many
    international currencies for that teh client be alble to buy. "
  created: '2010-05-12 16:18:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> http://www.hennesseydesign.com/\r\n\r\nYou've done some nice work!"
  created: '2010-05-12 18:07:15'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Ophello-\r\n\r\nDo not think I'm coming from Finland to Washington state
    to do in your kneecaps. I do wish that you pay for those fonts you swiped from
    your college, and \u2013 at least \u2013 make your clients buy the licence for
    using them."
  created: '2010-05-12 22:47:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>I used an emigre font on my website which I created in an interactive
    design class at OSU. I think that's probably legit as far as legal use is concerned.</cite>\r\n\r\n(Usual
    disclaimer: I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not trying to offer legal advice, just passing
    along my understanding of this area.)\r\n\r\nAre you saying:\r\n\r\n1) You created
    a font from scratch and licensed it to Emigre?\r\n2) You created a font from scratch
    in imitation of an Emigre font?\r\n3) You took an existing Emigre font file and
    modified it?\r\n\r\nThe first case is certainly legal. The second case seems to
    be often legal in the US, though it can depend on the details, and whether the
    original typeface had a design patent. The third case seems to rarely be legal,
    although again the details could matter.\r\n\r\n<cite>I used Trajan, but that
    comes on every mac.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, it doesn't. It is however bundled
    with many versions of Adobe Creative Suite (and many member applications of the
    suite), so if you have a license for that, you're probably clear.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-13 16:00:58'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: '@Thomas: I guess ophello is saying that he created his website using an Emigre
    font.'
  created: '2010-05-13 16:35:28'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I didn't modify the font in any way. I'm not a font creator.\r\n\r\nThat
    font was installed legally on the computer I used at OSU. The website was an assignment
    and I used the font to create my navigation and headline. Everyone else in that
    class used creative typefaces. The teacher made no mention about the legal use
    of typefaces. Hence, I didn't think twice about it."
  created: '2010-05-13 22:45:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: He was referring to his website when he said "which I created..."; not the
    font.
  created: '2010-05-13 23:00:06'
- author:
    name: ebspoony
  body: "This takes the cake. At the bottom of the website comes the disclaimer:\r\n\r\n<cite>All
    images and work contained herein \xA9 2009 by [name redacted]. \r\nDo not distribute
    any of the images contained here without my express permission.</cite>\r\n\r\nGotta
    laugh at that.\r\n\r\nListen, buy the fonts you use. Bill them to your clients.
    Fonts just aren't as expensive as you think they are. I started buying fonts my
    last year of school with some extra cash from freelance work, and then I started
    charging clients for fonts when I wanted them on their jobs. It works. Before
    you know it, you'll have a stable of thirty or forty 'base' fonts you can't live
    without and you have legally added them to your collection.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-14 00:04:41'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "@ ebspoony\r\n\r\nAllow me to reiterate for the umpteenth time:\r\n\r\nThe
    work on my site was created:\r\n1. while I was interning in a design firm using
    their fonts <cite>legally</cite>\r\n2. in college using fonts on their computers
    <cite>legally</cite>\r\n3. with a font license that my client owns <cite>legally</cite>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you should brush up on what constitutes legal use of a font. While I am not allowed
    to copyright an entire font, I am allowed to copyright work that they are used
    in, provided I own the license. Given facts 1-3 above, I am clearly allowed to
    copyright my work.\r\n\r\nYou make a joke at my expense without fully understanding
    the situation."
  created: '2010-05-14 02:33:40'
- author:
    name: ebspoony
  body: Actually I understand it quite well; you're not understanding the irony which
    I point to. You don't want anyone stealing <ul>your</ul> work, but you search
    for justification in stealing others'. That's all.
  created: '2010-05-14 03:14:19'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: I don't think I am searching for a justification at all. Maybe you should
    re-read my posts and stop putting words in my mouth?
  created: '2010-05-14 03:44:57'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "I understand that work created while you're an employee belongs to the company?
    Generally speaking at least, unless you were working under a specific arrangement
    which stated otherwise.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure if you're 'clearly allowed' to claim
    copyright to work created at OSU, especially if you used OSU's 'institutional
    resources' (such as fonts) to develop that work.\r\n\r\nThough OSU does refer
    only to employees/faculty, not students, in an FAQ:\r\n\r\n<cite>Who has the right
    to copyright material?\r\n    Generally, the individual creating the materials
    has the right to copyright them. However, OSU employees are required as a condition
    of employment to assign intellectual property they develop (unless unrelated to
    their work assigned or created without using OSU facilities) to OUS. These materials
    should be copyrighted in the name of OSU, unless OSU has granted waivers or releases
    of copyright. *</cite>\r\n\r\nSource: http://printmail.oregonstate.edu/frequently-asked-questions"
  created: '2010-05-14 03:53:45'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I was an employee of OSU for the majority of my time there.\r\n\r\nSo I'm
    not allowed to copyright anything I did while I was there, huh? I'll look into
    getting them to grant me a waiver."
  created: '2010-05-14 08:17:23'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: I wouldn't bother. I can pretty much guarantee they will not sue. What reason
    would they have to do so?
  created: '2010-05-14 09:57:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I was an employee of OSU for the majority of my time there.\r\n\r\nLike
    you were on the football team? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-14 12:38:12'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: A band of ignorants! I'm amazed how they don't want to hear my counsels!
  created: '2010-05-14 16:13:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Like you were on the football team? ;)\r\n\r\nI think being \"employed\"
    by the football team would violate NCAA rules. "
  created: '2010-05-14 16:28:08'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: sii, are you speaking with me or with ophello?
  created: '2010-05-14 16:29:34'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "@ dberlow\r\n\r\nI worked for the student government and did work for the
    health sciences college. So, yes. I was also a paid employee.\r\n\r\n@ steve.acres\r\n\r\nThat's
    how I feel about it."
  created: '2010-05-14 20:33:25'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: You know, I'm not the only designer out of OSU with copyright statements on
    their website. I think this is an unresolved issue and I doubt that OSU is even
    aware of it.
  created: '2010-05-14 20:34:59'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: I think OSU expects students to put a copyright on their own work... it's
    the responsible thing to do. If I use a PANTONE color to print with, I still copyright
    the work as mine, even though they have the copyright to that color mix, etc.
  created: '2010-05-14 22:04:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Ah, sorry for any misunderstanding. Ophello's post wording had been ambiguous,
    and I thought it was the font he was saying he'd created (since, after all, we're
    talking about font IP here). Of course it makes more sense as referring to the
    web site.
  created: '2010-05-15 15:48:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n\r\nOh, come on, man! The Wall Street Journal was charging
    before you made your offer.\r\nYou're not gonna welch on me now, are you?\r\n\r\n>And
    as to on line, the Wall Street Journal has, and the others are going to charge\r\n>soon,
    or there are going to be few newspapers left.\r\n\r\nConsumer Reports charges
    a subscription for their online edition, too. They are the exceptions that prove
    the rule. WSJ is required reading, daily, for a very well-heeled readership that
    can more than afford to pay. More importantly, it's a professional obligation
    for every and any trader on Wall Street. Not reading it can cost them and their
    clients incalculably.\r\nIt is very much a trade publication. Yes, it doubles
    as a general circulation paper, but thems not who's payin'.\r\n\r\nIn contrast,
    I don't need to read Maureen Dowd in the morning to function.\r\n\r\nMore typical
    is what happened to the Long Island, New York newspaper, Newsday:\r\n\"After Three
    Months, Only 35 Subscriptions for Newsday's Web Site\"\r\nhttp://www.observer.com/2010/media/after-three-months-only-35-subscriptions-newsdays-web-site/\r\nA
    complete fiasco. Pitiful. And I lived on Long Island for a long, long time and
    it's a good paper.\r\nYes, there won't be any newspapers left. I doubt if the
    NYTimes has five years more of print editions left.\r\nBut there will still be
    reliable sites to get news. There will still be astute reportage.\r\nIt will,
    however, be more expensive to wrap fish.\r\nDo you like Sushi? (It can be prepared
    Kosher, you know.)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-17 03:42:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ophello\r\n\r\n>Do you blame me for deleting that? Some of you are making
    joking threats about busting\r\n>in my kneecaps.\r\n\r\nOphello, I assure you
    this was hyperbole of the kind one oftens finds on this forum.\r\nJust playful
    joking. As Tony Soprano would put it, we're just \"breakin' your balls\".\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-17 03:50:40'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@ophello\r\n\r\nYou stole something from us.\r\n\r\nYou stole . . . . our
    hearts. Welcome to our sexy club. Now calm down, new guy."
  created: '2010-05-17 09:26:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Richard, I don't have time to chase it down, but there was in the news about
    a month ago that a bunch of newspapers are planning to start charging in the fall.
    There are also different ways to charge. Eg. Yahoo pays AP to carry its stories.
    \r\n\r\nI'm not going to be in LA for TypeCon this year, alas. "
  created: '2010-05-17 14:47:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n\r\nOkay. We'll run into each somewhere along the line
    I'm sure and let's see what happens in the fall. If that's the newspaper's plans,
    I'm mighty curious to see....\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-17 15:35:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's on the NY Times announcement that it will charge:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/21/business/media/21times.html\r\n\r\nHere's
    about British newspapers doing the same:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cnn.com/2010/BUSINESS/03/26/britain.newspapers.web.charge/index.html\r\n\r\nHere's
    about Rupert Murdoch starting to charge this summer:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/media/2009/aug/06/rupert-murdoch-website-charges\r\n\r\nOf
    course, whether this will actually happen and when I don't know. But I think it's
    inevitable that if ads alone can't support news on the web, then there will also
    be subscription charges. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-05-17 15:48:15'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Ophello - I'll start by giving a simple piece of advice: Remember you are
    fresh out of school and debating with a community that makes its living in type
    design and typography and has been for decades. You should be learning from these
    people, and taking their words seriously - not trying to prove them wrong with
    every statement. They will not let it go so easily :)\r\n\r\n<cite>A lot of designers...I
    dare say ALL students who graduate from design schools...do this regularly.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you in <cite>part</cite>, that many students use unlicensed fonts while
    they are in school. I believe it has a lot to do with lack of funds but <strong>*mostly*</strong>
    because students are not being educated by their teachers about how to properly
    obtain and use fonts. This knowledge is critical for students who are attending
    a design school and planning a career as a visual designer.\r\n\r\nI also have
    a very hard time believing that a computer lab at a huge state university had
    legal licenses for all the computers. But what do I know \u2026.\r\n\r\nTo say
    that \"ALL\" students use fonts illegally, and regularly after graduation is a
    gross generalization. What you know of design school you learned from your experience
    at OSU, a school that doesn't have a properly specialized program for visual designers
    or typography (correct me if I'm wrong - I hope this isn't taken as an insult
    to your education, not intended at all), so I don't think you can speak for everyone
    around the globe who learned things very differently. Many members of this community
    (including myself) graduated from design school with a solid understanding of
    our industry (visual design), and an understanding of how utilizing fonts and
    supporting other designers (type designers) is essential to our business and building
    a solid reputation as a design professional. \r\n\r\nMy advice to your original
    query: Keep the fonts for experimentation, to learn and to play, but don't use
    them in anything that is public-facing, unless you go directly to your local font
    retailer and/or foundry and purchase a legal license."
  created: '2010-05-17 20:27:00'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "It's not really a \"club.\"\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say you should fear them, but
    \"they\" are the type designers who create the typefaces you're [we're] using,
    thus (in my opinion), many of them do deserve at least respect."
  created: '2010-05-19 09:16:25'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "@ Zara Evens\r\n\r\nThank you sincerely for the thoughtful reply. I am glad
    that I was able to run into your site and your diligent users before getting balls-deep
    into a font licensing crisis.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"\u2026a school that doesn't have
    a properly specialized program for visual designers or typography\"</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    school was in no way representative of all design schools -- I really don't know
    what goes on in other schools. I personally think that OSU design students should
    be more connected with the Font World.\r\n\r\nI think we did have a properly specialized
    program for visual designers. I went through that program.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I also
    have a very hard time believing that a computer lab at a huge state university
    had legal licenses for all the computers.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI should clarify: all
    design students had (and probably still have) access to a server with a folder
    that contains many, many fonts. The fact that we had that kind of access made
    any computer suddenly able to utilize those fonts. It was a convenience that I
    hope you understand the need for.\r\n\r\nI don't see this as an excuse but as
    an explanation."
  created: '2010-05-19 09:51:10'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: There's no way to delete a post once it's been started. I blame the creators.
    Hmmm? Creators?
  created: '2010-05-19 09:51:30'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "We, at Typophile, never delete content unless it contains significantly offensive
    language irrelevant to design and typography or presents serious legal issues
    for people in our community, or even us.\r\n\r\nThe removal of posts or threads
    poses issues with archiving, therefore we made the conscious decision to not allow
    deletion by users.\r\n\r\n-Creators"
  created: '2010-05-19 23:50:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@william berkson\r\n\r\nLook, it all boils down to the dollars. If they try
    it, and they pick up more dollars from subscriber money than they lose in ad dollars
    because of less eyeballs, they'll stick with it. If not, they'll regress. As they
    did when they tried their \"premium\" program and charged for access to the op-ed
    pieces and such. Unless they want to explain to the shareholders why they cut
    off their nose to spite their face.\r\n\r\nBack then, BTW, I paid, and subsequently
    got a refund when they discontinued the program.\r\n\r\nBut the situation, for
    me, at least, has changed. I wouldn't pay today. There's so much stuff to read,
    my morning ritual with the NYTimes is no more. It's an occasional thing now."
  created: '2010-05-20 01:12:57'
date: '2010-05-09 18:54:57'
node_type: forum
title: Please dont sue me!

---
