---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "Here's a new logo that I'm currently working on.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logorough_typophile_6315.png]\r\nThis
  is still rough. It's also going to be paired with a wordmark, which I'm omitting
  here at the moment. \r\n\r\nI'd love to hear how this reads, what you see, and/or
  what ideas you get about the company/service offered. \r\nAlso, is it close to something
  else that's already out there?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "FIFO: Lambda. Heavy construction \r\nhttp://lumq.com/01/who-will-lift-the-giant/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/big_crane_5_3891.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-10 12:19:11'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I see, a crossbarless A, which is a bit unsettling, so I tried to see it
    as a upside-down V, not less unsettling... ;-)\r\nThen I noticed the cursor-like
    arrow, but the inner serifs are a bit too long compared to the outer serifs.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 16:26:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "A collegiate looking /V/, inverted,\r\n[[http://www.sportsdecorating.com/images/college/wallmarx/VIRGINIA_WALLMARX_LOGO.jpg|like
    this]].\r\n\r\nThen, the arrow, a la FedEx.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 16:43:12'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: ">>the company/service offered.\r\nHeavy Engineering Construction\r\n\r\nThis
    reminds [[http://www.brandsoftheworld.com/logo/altoona-curve|Altoona Curve logo]].\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-10 16:50:43'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Nina, this reminds me of the upwards facing arrow/A combination I created
    for a logo last year :) \u2013 http://tailoredvalues.com/"
  created: '2010-05-10 17:52:35'
- author:
    name: L.
    picture: 117666
  body: "Guessing the service:\r\n\r\n0. Elevators!\r\n1. FedEx-like company (transport/logistics
    services)\r\n2. Small airline/aeroclub"
  created: '2010-05-10 23:07:18'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Up \r\nA\r\nBird legs\r\nTriangle\r\nFoundations (maybe because of the other
    posts)\r\nStrong/solid\r\nConnected or moving together\r\n\r\nIt reminds me of
    something I saw here on Typophile a year ago, but I don't remember what exactly.
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 00:30:18'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "Bendy: the BACKUP logo perhaps? which used an iverted V.\r\nTailored Values
    is pretty nice.\r\n\r\nAll \"what it's similar to aside\".\r\n\r\nI get a pretty
    solid/stable feeling - with a side serve of some attention to detail (though I
    can't really explain that one, maybe the curves).\r\n\r\nA-press? A click?\r\n\r\nTell
    us more!?!\r\n\r\n:)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 01:17:15'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: ">> It reminds me of something I saw here on Typophile\r\n> the BACKUP logo
    perhaps?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/55633"
  created: '2010-05-11 08:59:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: ":-) Thanks for the feed-back, all.\r\n\r\nIt's an (\"A\"-initialled) IT consulting/support/software-engineering
    company; however they're not so wild on something with primarily a slick \xABnew
    tech\xBB aesthetic but rather want something that radiates their values \u2013
    diligence, stability, hard-working no-frills trustworthiness and such, which is
    why I tried to find something *very* stable/solid plus work in a second layer
    of meaning (with the arrow). Has a very stable sort of \xABPROGRESS\xBB feel to
    me if that makes any sense. \r\nI hope the arrow thing is not perceived too much
    as graphic-designer silliness; that it reads as cursor-like to some is great to
    hear.\r\n\r\nRegarding being close to other stuff: Sebastian, Tailored Values
    is really quite nice. I agree the concept is similar, but would you agree it's
    different enough in style/execution? Does it bother you if I go ahead with this?\r\nBACKUP:
    has an actual \"V\" (or upside-down \"A\") no? BVCKUP, I remember that spurring
    quite a discussion. [Edit: Thanks for the link Riccardo, interesting!]\r\nAltoona
    curve I think is far enough removed for me in terms of design as well as what
    it is. As well as geographically."
  created: '2010-05-11 09:03:49'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: "Nina, thanks for your kind words .I have absolutely no problem with you going
    ahead, as I assume that your final execution & supporting wordmark will be rather
    different from what I have done. But I of course appreciate the courtesy of you
    asking.\r\n\r\nPlease keep us updated on the progress!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-11 09:23:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for *your* kind words, Sebastian. :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, Riccardo:\r\n<cite>\"but
    the inner serifs are a bit too long compared to the outer serifs.\"</cite>\r\nToo
    long how \u2013 too long for it to read as an \"A\"?"
  created: '2010-05-11 14:08:49'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Too long as in a \"we're not really serifs, just a broken continuous line\"
    kind of way ;-)\r\nBut what I meant was that they're noticeably longer than the
    outer serifs, so maybe it could just be a matter of extending a bit the latter."
  created: '2010-05-11 14:47:17'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "How about simplifying it further, to give it more stability?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/logorough_6315stf_6384.png]\r\nThat
    arrow seems to be rather thin at the bottom, so why not loose it?"
  created: '2010-05-11 23:46:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '@Tomi: In doing so, you''ll lose/weaken the cursor reference.'
  created: '2010-05-12 09:27:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, I'd like to keep the arrow/cursor in there, which is lost without the
    inside serifs (and somehow this also seems to look less like an \"A\" to me, dunno).
    I'll play a bit with their length though. \r\n\r\nThanks for all the feedback,
    again! Will go tweak & fiddle. :-)"
  created: '2010-05-13 00:09:29'
- author:
    name: iffy
    picture: 113881
  body: "The length of the serifs looks okay to me for what you're doing. I think
    they're too thick though. \r\n\r\nJust throwing this out there... what if the
    cursor was pixelated inside? I'm not sure this would work but just an idea to
    play with."
  created: '2010-05-13 14:46:46'
- author:
    name: Eneroth
    picture: 119960
  body: "I like it! I'm a bit hesitant on the arrow though. Not for the design of
    it, but from a cognitive science perspective. You'll have a part of the population
    who won't be able to spot the arrow unless they are given cues.\r\nThis may be
    a non-issue, but I thought it might be worth to keep in mind.\r\n\r\nAs a side
    note, an alternative to giving cues is to have the image be nonsensical when something
    recognizable is expected, thus forcing the observer to cycle through alternative
    modes of observation in order to try to make sense of the image. Obviously, this
    won't work here, since logotypes are expected to be abstract."
  created: '2010-05-14 10:48:14'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>@Tomi: In doing so, you'll lose/weaken the cursor reference.</em>\r\n\r\nAlso
    it looks like an uppercase lambda, which is L, not A. I do like the shape of it
    quite a lot, I think it's marginally more memorable that the original.\r\n\r\n@nina
    - perhaps extend the outer parts of serifs a bit? This should make the actual
    \"footing\" concept more prominent. Looks very nice otherwise, though I would
    never guessed it was for an IT company."
  created: '2010-05-14 16:38:38'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "@ nina:\r\n\r\nThe form of an \"A\" without its crossbar feels foreign and
    intimidating (to me).\r\n\r\n<cite>diligence, stability, hard-working no-frills
    trustworthiness and such, which is why I tried to find something *very* stable/solid
    plus work in a second layer of meaning (with the arrow)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt needs
    a personal touch to push it in that direction. Right now, the cursor idea is not
    clear enough to stand out. I'd consider experimenting with an illustrative/curvilinear
    element that takes the place of the crossbar or intersects with the form. Perhaps
    something that sparks the idea of collaboration, reaching out, etc. A sun, star,
    swoosh, etc."
  created: '2010-05-14 20:43:37'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "Just screwing around a bit.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roughlogoTypophileOP_5212.png]"
  created: '2010-05-14 21:23:29'
- body: "\r\nOphello...it's generally considered improper to post redesigns of somebody
    else's work. I see you're new here, so I thought you might not know that. Not
    all are offended by such overtures, but many of us are. One of the many problems
    it creates is that the thread becomes a critique of the redesigns instead of the
    actual logo -- which is compliant to the client's brief."
  created: '2010-05-15 00:25:10'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "Should I have posted a link to it rather than posting the image itself? \"Tomi
    from Suomi\" did the same thing so excuse me for assuming it was ok.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    if I were designing a logo and someone's ideas inspired a new direction, I'd be
    grateful, not mad. Ah well.\r\n\r\nSo what are some of the other \"many problems
    it creates\"?"
  created: '2010-05-15 01:05:57'
- body: "Well, lets say your redesign is seen by the client (this website is truly
    a Google magnet) and they want to use it. So, now what? Either you've just \"stolen\"
    a job from another designer, or, that designer steals your work? They can't take
    credit for it legally, and the sure as hell would be crazy to put it in their
    portfolio. \r\n\r\nEven if the client doesn't see it, NO WAY I'd submit somebody
    else's work to my client. It's unethical. So, even if your solution is REALLY
    great...I can't use it. If you had described it rather than drawn it, I could
    have made the design myself. And for that, yes, I'd be grateful.  \r\n\r\nImagine
    somebody walked into Picasso's studio midway through a painting and picked up
    his brush? Then paints over half his painting? Hubris? You bet! I'm not saying
    we're all Picassos, but you can see the analogy, yes? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-15 01:53:44'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I totally agree. I also hereby release any and all ownership of the four
    examples above. They were meant to serve as inspiration, not as final examples
    in their own right.\r\n\r\nI don't really truly believe that we can \"own\" something
    as abstract as a shape, no matter how specific that shape is. Sure, we should
    get paid for our work, but eventually we'll die. The shape lives on in the mind
    and the void forever.\r\n\r\nIt's like how we think we \"own\" land...but really,
    the land owns us. The earth was here before us, and all shapes already exist,
    theoretically. We aren't really designers, just \"finders.\" :D\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I should upload poorly-done loose pencil sketches instead?\r\n\r\nBut thanks for
    the tip \u2013 I had no idea how popular this site was."
  created: '2010-05-15 02:13:44'
- body: "I hope you don't feel I was scolding you, because that wasn't my intent.
    Pencil sketches are sometimes OK, but personally, I try to stick to descriptions
    of new ideas.\r\n\r\nOh, and BTW, I really like your last solution - with the
    dots? Very cool. I have no idea if it works for this client, but it sure looks
    cool. "
  created: '2010-05-15 02:17:00'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: 'That''s just it: I have no idea what the company is like. Those concepts
    were pulled out of thin air.'
  created: '2010-05-15 02:25:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Sorry for the late reply, been away/busy/etc. \r\nFor the record, I'm not
    \xABoffended\xBB as such when people post suggestions, but frankly I think more
    often than not it's beside the point. The question is how the person who already
    has the job (me, in this case) can come up with the best solution \u2013 and this
    <em>needs</em> to be fueled by a strong concept in turn fueled by communication
    with the client. Therefore I feel that questions usually help more than direct
    suggestions, and words usually more than pictures; and when people start posting
    pictures, threads sometimes develop a competitive side that is really beside the
    point. But everyone sees this a bit differently.\r\n\r\nThat said, I'm one for
    minimalism in terms of only using the elements I need to communicate; and frankly,
    I don't feel my concept is \xABlacking\xBB any additional elements, some of which
    seem nice, but all of which to me seem to water down the clarity of the concept.
    Thanks for the food for thought, though.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The form of an \"A\" without
    its crossbar feels foreign and intimidating (to me).\"</cite>\r\nReally? Feels
    more techy to me, but it's been done a number of times. See the <a href=\"http://www.jigyo.com/Military/Memorabilia/SmallPatches/NASA/7401.jpeg\">old
    NASA logo</a> or <a href=\"http://www.theautochannel.com/news/2008/06/24/091044.1-lg.jpg\">KIA
    Motors</a>. There are more. \r\n\r\n<cite>\"It needs a personal touch to push
    it in that direction. Right now, the cursor idea is not clear enough to stand
    out\"</cite>\r\nHow do others feel about this? All the people I've directly tested
    it with so far have immediately seen the arrow/cursor. (I'm thinking the fact
    that the black shape seems slightly odd \u2013 with the thick serifs that are
    also longer on the inside [which however is not at all unheard of for \"A\"s BTW]
    \u2013 may help people see there is something else going on, too.)\r\n\r\nWill
    check back once I have more to show. Thanks all, so far."
  created: '2010-05-24 20:55:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I get arrow, but not cursor at all. \r\nThe telling details that would say
    \"cursor\" to me would be an angled placement, so that one side of the arrow is
    vertical and the other a 45\xB0 diagonal. \r\nOf course, it would take some doing
    to incorporate those angles while retaining the \"stability\" sense."
  created: '2010-05-24 21:39:32'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>[The \"A\" without crossbar] it's been done a number of times</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the samples you cite are always in context with other letters."
  created: '2010-05-24 22:10:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I will probably be able to post soon with the (A-initialled) wordmark added,
    which will (I think) make the \"A\"-context clearer.\r\n\r\nCraig, that's an interesting
    thought \u2013 thanks. It does sound tricky."
  created: '2010-05-24 22:45:20'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "KIA and NASA use the 'A' in context with a word. That makes it readable and
    obvious that it is the letter 'A'.\r\n\r\nUsing a standalone \"A\" without a crossbar
    and without a phonetic context makes it more obscure and intimidating. It feels
    \"alien\" without support around it, or something to signify that it is a letter.
    Your slab serifs help to explain that it's a letter and I recommend serifs if
    you use that direction, but I stand by my earlier comment: a lone 'A' without
    a crossbar (in any font) feels a bit awkward. If nothing dynamic is happening
    with it (slab serif, basic structure), it will have a harder time communicating
    something specific. Interpretations of its significance would probably vary wildly
    if you shared it with people and asked for opinions on its meaning (which has
    already happened in this thread).\r\n\r\nThe bottom line: I feel that people should
    be able to look at this and:\r\n\r\n1. immediately see an 'A'\r\n2. immediately
    tell that it is for a tech company\r\n\r\n\"diligence, stability, hard-working
    no-frills trustworthiness and such\"\r\n\r\nI think a banner, shield, cropped
    figure/ground rectangle could help solidify the mark.\r\n\r\n[[http://www.portland.com/portland/wp-content/uploads/rose-quarter-logo.jpg]]\r\n\r\nThis
    logo uses a crop box and the mark becomes a sort of stamp or plaque. That approach
    might be more appropriate for what you're doing."
  created: '2010-05-31 09:35:44'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<cite>I get arrow, but not cursor at all.</cite>\r\nMe too! I also think
    it\u2019s worth to try a cursor version, but maybe just with a small angle at
    the bottom and a small non-horizontal angle on the left bottom of the cursor,
    preserving \u201Cstability\u201D."
  created: '2010-06-01 06:58:16'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Final result FYI:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Adintegra_Logo1_schwarz_RGB_4112.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdintegraKartenTP_3645.jpg]\r\nThanks
    for the \xABangle\xBB thought. By ever-so-slightly tilting the cursor (and making
    it much smaller \u2013 and that curve-vs-corner thing*), it becomes more recognizable
    as a cursor (echoing IT) / a pointing arrow (resonating with the [Latin] \xABad\xBB
    part of the company name) while remaining very simple/minimal. The mark also cites/suggests
    the \"A\", but doesn't actually have to read as an \"A\". Client's happy, I'm
    happy. Thanks to you guys too!\r\n.\r\n(* Which I originally got the idea for
    by looking at Trilby's \"A\"; and which is echoed nicely, if differently, by the
    paired Stag.)"
  created: '2010-11-03 19:13:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I love it, very sharp (meaning smart and crisp rather than sour or jaggy).
    \r\n\r\nI really dig the way you've given the arrow its own foreground although
    it's the counter \u2014 that clever tilt making it independent.\r\n\r\nWhat stock
    is it printed on by the way?"
  created: '2010-11-03 19:28:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Nice work. Thanks for following up with the results!
  created: '2010-11-03 19:45:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Thanks for following up with the results!</cite>\r\n\r\nSeconded."
  created: '2010-11-03 20:18:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hey, thank you guys.\r\n\r\nBen: This is Lessebo stock (from Sweden it seems).
    My printer has been recommending it as a slightly-less-expensive alternative to
    Conqueror and the like; it comes in different shades, weights, surface finishes
    and they also make envelopes and stuff, so it's nicely versatile for identity
    work. This is the off-white \xABIvory\xBB shade."
  created: '2010-11-03 21:14:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Looks great. Is it an offset print? Got any close-up shots of the stock?
  created: '2010-11-03 22:05:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yes, offset. It's a 2-color print (with 3 different color variants for the
    second plate). It's actually not an especially funky stock, it probably looks
    less smooth in that previous pic than it is\u2026 that was just camera noise!
    :-) \r\nAnyway, here's a close-up:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AdintegraKarten2_5090.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-03 22:16:37'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: Nina, this turned out lovely!
  created: '2010-11-04 07:57:46'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Thank you Sebastian.
  created: '2010-11-04 18:01:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Sorry for another question, but is this the uncoated ivory, 300gsm?
  created: '2010-11-04 20:03:56'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ask as much as you want! I'm just surprised at the stock getting so much
    attention. \r\nAnd yes, I just checked and it is the matte/uncoated Ivory at 300gsm."
  created: '2010-11-04 22:29:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well for me, business cards have often been rather disappointing, even when
    examining samples beforehand. These look very good indeed \u2014 no doubt also
    due to your expert typography."
  created: '2010-11-04 22:42:45'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "What, no old-style figures?\r\nJust kidding \u2013 the effect of the slightly
    angled inner part of the serifs is astonishing! Great details, great work indeed."
  created: '2010-11-04 22:53:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks guys :-)\r\nBen, the only thing that has always been disappointing
    for me is printing business cards in digital. Blegh. It can be hard to communicate
    the cost of offset printed cards (especially for clients who say they only need
    a small quantity) but it sure pays off. Apart from that, I find that working with
    a good print shop is worth a lot. My printer is very good about warning me when
    I pick for example a stock that doesn't make sense, and recommending things himself.
    Especially since I don't originally come from a print design background, that
    sure helps.\r\nJ\xF6rg, in case that was a question :-), I'm never sure about
    OSFs on business cards\u2026 In this case Stag simply doesn't have any, and in
    a way I feel the lining ones click nicely with the slight \xABoffice\xBB/\xABbusiness\xBB
    look of the design. Hybrids might have been an option too."
  created: '2010-11-05 08:07:15'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: Good work, Nina!
  created: '2010-11-05 08:42:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'd use lining figs for a phone number and/or zip/post code too.\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking the same about offset but we do have a lot of colours in our logo
    so that might be a bit difficult. I'm not very au fait with printing techniques
    either, but I'll certainly look into offset next time. Thanks."
  created: '2010-11-05 19:44:35'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "This turned out a very nice and clever logo. The kind you can assign on some
    contests or annual books... I would almost guarantee it will be shown...\r\n\r\n<strong>Congratulations.</strong>"
  created: '2010-11-28 16:18:57'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Hey, thank you. That would be nice I guess.
  created: '2010-11-29 21:53:57'
date: '2010-05-10 11:28:47'
title: A new logo to check

---
