---
author:
  name: paul.irish
  picture: 118342
body: "While we are waiting for WOFF support broadly, there are some protective measures
  available for webfonts to prevent them from being installed locally.\r\n\r\nThere
  is a technique of obfuscating the <code>name</code> table, rendering it <strong>unusable
  as a system font, but fully functional as a webfont</strong>. Ethan Dunham of Font
  Squirrel and Fontspring has led much of the research below, based on some prior
  work from Peter Bilak of Typotheque and Philip Taylor with his Font Optimizer [0]\r\n\r\nSpecifically,
  these are the modifications for a TrueType font:\r\n<!--break-->\r\n<ul><li>Delete
  all name entries except for platformID 3, platEncID 1, LangID 0x0409</ul>\r\n\r\n<ul><li>Set
  entry 1 (Font Family) to  '' (empty string)\r\n<li>Set entry 2 (Font Subfamily)
  to a unicode smiley:\u263A [1]\r\n<li>Set entry 3 (Unique ID) to '' (empty string)\r\n<li>Set
  entry 4 (Full name) to smiley:\u263A\r\n<li>Entry 5 (Version) may optionally be
  changed. Ethan recommends inserting some verbage about the font being protected.
  It shows up in the get info window on Mac \r\n<li>Set entry 6 (Postscript name)
  to smiley:\u263A\r\n<li>Entries 7-14 can remain as is\r\n<li>Delete entries 15+</ul>\r\n\r\nCreate
  two Mac entries: platformID 1, platEncID 0, LangID 0x0\r\n<ul><li>Set entry 1 to
  blank (basically have an entry but no value)\r\n<li>Set entry 4 to the Font Name
  (optional but will show up in Get Info)</ul>\r\n\r\n\r\nWhen the Font Family name
  is an empty string, it is uninstallable in Windows. Meanwhile, the OpenType spec
  indicates that two-byte unicode characters (like the smiley) won't work in a font
  name on Mac at all. [2] As a result, it's rejected by OS X and not possible to install.
  Linux isn't able to cope with these modifications either. [3]\r\n\r\nThese changes
  are done not only to the TrueType \"naked\" font, but can also be applied to the
  underlying TTF embedded in the EOT and WOFF files as well. It's also worth noting
  that Chrome's font sanitizing library OTS completely avoids the <code>name</code>
  table. [4]   \r\n\r\n<strong>I believe all non-free fonts should employ these changes
  as they are distributed for web use</strong>, essentially providing them with a
  similar \"garden fence\"-level of protection [5] as WOFF. Fontspring is already
  employing this technique, and you can test it out with the WebOnly option at the
  Font Squirrel generator [6].\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you guys think this is worthwhile, I'd
  love to help draft this up into something more official so it's a documented standard
  that all foundries can use when preparing their work for sale as a webfont.\r\n\r\n\r\n[0]
  [[http://bitbucket.org/philip/font-optimizer/src/tip/obfuscate-font.pl]]\r\n[1]
  [[http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/263a/index.htm]]\r\n[2] [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#9.e]]\r\n[3]
  [[http://paulirish.com/i/LinuxWebfont.png]]\r\n[4] [[http://code.google.com/p/ots/source/browse/trunk/src/name.cc#23]]\r\n[5]
  [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010AprJun/0061.html]]\r\n[6] [[http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fontface/generator]]\r\n\r\nEdit:
  Clarified the Windows installability reason. Worth noting: when the full name doesn't
  match Font Family + subfamily, it is uninstallable in Windows, however they match
  with this above technique, which is why the EOTs with this modification still work.
  (thx Ethan)"
comments:
- author:
    name: diaoyudaosaf
  body: "\r\n<br><hr><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30B5\u30F3\u30B0\u30E9\u30B9</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30B4\u30FC\u30B0\u30EB</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC
    \u30E1\u30AC\u30CD</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC</a></b><br>\r\n<b><a
    href=\"http://www.oakley-sunglasses.asia/\">\u30AA\u30FC\u30AF\u30EA\u30FC \u6FC0\u5B89</a></b><br>"
  created: '2013-08-15 15:12:46'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: .
  created: '2010-05-14 09:29:59'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Like Paul said, you can already do this with the <a href="http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fontface/generator">Generator</a>
    by selecting the "WebOnly" Option. I'm interested to hear your thoughts on it
    all. A more robust foundry service is in the works.
  created: '2010-05-14 13:18:34'
- author:
    name: gryzzly
    picture: 115717
  body: "Whoa, finally something on the subject.\r\n\r\nI've posted a question on
    the css-design google group, but, clearly, that was a wrong place to ask such
    a question (no replies).\r\nhttp://groups.google.com/group/css-design/browse_thread/thread/d3ccff333398096c\r\n\r\nThank
    you guys.\r\n\r\nSo, all the mentioned stuff is already being done if I use \"WebOnly\"
    from the Fontsquirell?\r\n\r\nEthan, Paul, you rock."
  created: '2010-05-14 13:46:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: .
  created: '2010-05-14 13:48:36'
- author:
    name: elliotjaystocks
    picture: 119398
  body: "Thanks for doing the research, guys. This is one to save, keep, and refer
    back to constantly. \r\n\r\nTop work!"
  created: '2010-05-14 13:52:28'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "@Misha - Yes, all this is already being done in the generator.\r\n\r\n@Elliot
    - Thanks!\r\n\r\nOne clarification to Paul's documentation: It is uninstallable
    on Windows not because the names don't match (they do and that is why the EOT
    works), but because the Family Name is <blank>."
  created: '2010-05-14 14:43:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I think the problem with solutions like this is that a browser or OS would
    be well within its rights to reject such a font. We've seen security fixes for
    font-based attacks from Mozilla and Apple in recent months. As part of the hardening
    of apps and OS's against attack, support for hack fonts may disappear in an instant
    - through a security fix or browser update. That's probably okay for a service
    like Typekit that can react instantly, but for someone hosting their own EOTs
    or raw fonts that would appear to be a problem.
  created: '2010-05-14 16:19:57'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: '@Simon - Agreed, it is a potential issue. But can you see any reason why
    they would suddenly start paying attention to the table if they aren''t already?'
  created: '2010-05-14 16:38:55'
- author:
    name: Santiago Orozco
    picture: 117620
  body: .
  created: '2010-05-14 16:50:11'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "@sii, Yeah, totally a legitimate concern. I've asked a friend who works on
    the Chrome team that developed OTS (arguably the most aggressive in-browser font
    security software) to look this over. My expectation is he'll give the thumbs
    up, but like you, I want to feel confident about it.\r\n\r\nSince OTS was started,
    it has had <a href=\"http://code.google.com/p/ots/source/browse/trunk/src/name.cc#23\">this
    comment in the source</a>, which puts me at ease:\r\n<code>  // NAME is a required
    table, but we don't want anything to do with it. Thus,\r\n  // we don't bother
    parsing it and we just serialise an empty name table.</code>\r\n\r\nI'll also
    try to bounce this off John Daggett and Jonathan Kew of Mozilla. If you have contact
    with any webfonts engineers with IE, I'd love their input"
  created: '2010-05-14 17:16:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">would suddenly start paying attention to the table if they aren't already?\r\n\r\nIf
    a documented exploit involved malformed name table entries, they may verify all
    entries not just the one associated with the exploit.\r\n\r\n>If you have contact
    with any webfonts engineers with IE, I'd love their input\r\n\r\nFor sure, I'll
    point them at this thread.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-05-14 17:23:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm curious what other browsers may have been tested besides IE, Firefox
    and Chrome. How about Opera? Anything else? Any obscure browsers known to NOT
    work?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-14 19:45:17'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Yes, Opera Mac works fine. And I don't care honestly about obscure browsers.
    What is the Extensis strategy for protecting fonts?
  created: '2010-05-14 19:55:27'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "> How about Opera? Anything else? Any obscure browsers known to NOT work?\r\n\r\nOpera
    Windows and Opera Mac work with these files. \r\n\r\nCamino doesn't yet support
    @font-face but since they lean heavily on Gecko, it's safe to say the experience
    will match Firefox.\r\n\r\nI don't believe Epiphany or Konqueror either support
    @font-face yet (or really any of CSS3)."
  created: '2010-05-14 20:13:13'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I heard back from one of the lead font engineers. He agreed with my assessment,
    but declined to speculate on the likelihood of Windows or IE changing their behavior. '
  created: '2010-05-14 21:46:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ethan (fontsquirrel) asked: <cite>What is the Extensis strategy for protecting
    fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the current \"technology preview\" of our service, we
    do a bunch of measures at different levels, including a number of things relating
    to font processing, along these general lines.\r\n\r\nThat being said, there's
    no question that this level of font crippling is more extensive than what we're
    currently doing. It's something we'll be looking at carefully.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-15 02:58:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paul and all:\r\n\r\nAs you probably know, Ethan and I have discussed this
    a bit.\r\nAnd as TP will attest, I was on a quest for the \"uninstallable font
    name\" months ago (because of the local() problem) but you and Ethan beat me to
    it and I appreciate and salute the hack.\r\n\r\nMy initial reaction was like Sii's
    - a general nervousness. There's something about it that seems frail, easily broken.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    after mulling, the bottom line is: if the naming scheme is legit as far as the
    OT spec is concerned, there is no reason that I can see that it is any more vulnerable
    - security wise - than any other combination of entries in the name table.\r\n\r\n(And
    remember, no security guy is ever, ever going to tell you that something is 100%
    rock solid safe. If we could predict what an attacker might come up with, there
    would be no ongoing need for security guys. The question is: is this less safe
    than any other set of naming entries? Not that I can see.)\r\n\r\nWhich leads
    me to a whole other line of inquiry...\r\n\r\nAll along, it has been assumed that
    the font delivered to the browser is easily installable in the OS. It's fair to
    say that this is what bothered commercial font vendors the most.\r\nHowever, you've
    shown that's not true. The uninstallable font already exists, de facto, you've
    found it. And all it requires is some particular comination of entries in the
    name table.\r\n\r\nAll along, the focus has been on what browsers are going to
    to do with a font that was assumed to be installable when the real problem has
    always been what the OS was going to do if the user, let's say, extracted it out
    of the cache and tried to install it.\r\nSuccess at that has always been assumed.\r\n\r\nWith
    all the brouhaha going on at the W3C working group over embedding bits and mandates
    about what browsers and WOFF conversion tools SHALL or MUST do, my question is,
    why not codify something like this? It already exists.\r\n\r\nWhat would be objectionable
    about a naming scheme that makes the font uninstallable by asking that the underlying
    OS should, pretty please, not install a font so named?\r\n\r\nI can't see the
    major players like MSFT or Apple objecting to this.\r\n\r\nI mean, this issue
    was the prime impetus behind EOT and, ultimately, WOFF so why not tackle it from
    this angle, as well?\r\n\r\nI dunno, just tossing out the idea. Worth thinking
    through, I think.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-05-15 14:47:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>if the naming scheme is legit as far as the OT spec is concerned</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    the rub, I think. The proposed modifications of the name table are not really
    legit as far as the OT spec is concerned, at least as interpreted by the OS makers,
    which is precisely why the system will not install such fonts. This method of
    obfuscation is based on a current difference between the handling of web fonts
    and the installation of fonts on the system, and I don't see any grounds for either
    presuming that this difference will be maintained in its present state or that
    such a difference can be formalised."
  created: '2010-05-15 17:57:13'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-05-15 18:01:05'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for the summary, Paul!\r\n\r\nNon-complicance concerns aside, would
    it be worth trying to corrupt the font file even further so that it can't be fixed
    with a font editor?\r\nI played around a bit and managed to create a TTF that
    works as a web font in Safari but crashes FontLab when you try to open it; TTX
    doesn't work either but FontForge can open it. The problem is that it doesn't
    work in Chrome. It's just a quick attempt \u2013 maybe a TrueType file format
    wiz could devise something that works in browsers but can't be opened in editors?"
  created: '2010-05-15 21:00:41'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: Is there a way to make this more complicated, or are we now in a plateu-face
    looking at possible standards?
  created: '2010-05-15 22:49:03'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "@Tim- Chrome is the kicker because they are using a library to \"qualify\"
    a font. It must pass a myriad tests before it is considered safe. Obviously whatever
    you did raised a red flag. That is why the NAME table at this point is where our
    energy is focused.\r\n\r\n@Tomi- Ideally yes, but it is all undiscovered and untested.
    Likely there are few to none other alternatives right now. A font still has to
    behave like a font after all."
  created: '2010-05-16 02:40:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n<em>This method of obfuscation is based on a current difference
    between the handling of web fonts and the installation of fonts on the system,
    and I don't see any grounds for either presuming that this difference will be
    maintained in its present state or that such a difference can be formalised.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    it exploits a \"blind spot\" in the way Windows and OSX currently recognize a
    font.\r\nAnd there is no way to know if the blind spot will stay blind unless
    MSFT and Apple say it will.\r\n\r\nBut going forward, how about a simple naming
    convention that signals to the OS that the font should not be installed?\r\nBe
    aware that commercial font producers and web designers may soon have a very common
    interest here.\r\nIf I break my little tush re-hinting a font, playing with the
    outlines, converting it,  and subsetting it a certain way, I might very well want
    to sell the thing and not want it easily installable either.\r\n\r\nWith the acquiescence
    of only two parties: MSFT and Apple, things can be made simple. And I can't see
    what beef anybody would or could have. Forget embedding bits and EPAR tables and
    all that sh-t. Why couldn't a simple naming convention be adopted that asks the
    OS not to install the font? Making it Browser Cache-Only.\r\nI mean, why not?
    Too simple?\r\nNot much of a garden fence, but about as good as WOFF. And the
    two together would be about all you could hope for.\r\n\r\nAnd since the internal
    name of the font is really irrelevant to @font-face, why not just decide on an
    internal keyword name that requests this non-installable treatment?\r\nThere is
    precedence for it with the keyword font names in the CSS 2.1 draft, too.\r\n(cursive,
    serif, sans-serif, monospace - how about adding 'cache' to the list and asking
    user-agents to check for a match in the font's internal data and ask the platform
    providers to respect it?\r\n\r\nSii, is this nuts?\r\n\r\nJust thinking out loud...\r\n\r\n(Have
    to figure out how to get backward-compatibility, though. Can Ethan's hack be merged
    with such a thing? Probably.)\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-05-17 03:08:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I doubt clients or OS\u2019s would respect an unofficial keyword, not part
    of the OpenType standard. However, if the OpenType spec were rev'd to include
    a \"do not install\" bit, then I would expect that clients and OS\u2019s would
    support it. \r\n\r\nI think there would likely be push-back on standardization
    of such a bit. WOFF is already a \u201Cdo not install\u201D format, and depending
    on how clients temporarily install linked or embedded fonts they may run afoul
    of OS-level checks causing app compat issues. Add to this the ease of flipping
    the bit, it would seem to be a lot of work for little reward. \r\n\r\nI think
    a more promising approach, one more likely to succeed, would be a fully spec\u2019d
    permissions/electronic EULA table, where \u201Cdo not install\u201D is just one
    of several properties exposed.  \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-17 03:37:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Why couldn't a simple naming convention be adopted that asks the OS not
    to install the font? \r\n\r\nLol. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-17 11:07:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>I think a more promising approach, one more likely to succeed, would
    be a fully spec\u2019d permissions/electronic EULA table, where \u201Cdo not install\u201D
    is just one of several properties exposed.</em>\r\n\r\nPromising in a way, perhaps,
    but I have problems with what it promises.\r\nI'd rather it remain as is than
    go down that road.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-05-17 15:44:50'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "> I don't see any grounds for either presuming that this difference will
    be maintained in its present state or that such a difference can be formalised.\r\n\r\nWhy
    not? \r\n\r\nHere's a slice of the browsers in use and their marketshare:\r\nEOT
    (IE 6-8): 52.7%\r\nWOFF (FF3.5+, Chrome6): 20.8%\r\nTTF/OTF (FF<3.5, Chrome<6,
    Opera): 25.4%\r\nSVG or no support: 1.1%\r\n\r\nSo there is still a good 25% of
    users completely unserved by a EOT/WOFF license like FontShop's.\r\n\r\nWe still
    don't know for sure about Apple's plans to support WOFF. Last I heard, their lead
    engineer [[http://krijnhoetmer.nl/irc-logs/whatwg/20100303#l-194|said it's easier
    for them to make WOFF an installable format]], so that hardly solves the problem.\r\n\r\nBut
    now we have a format, which has protection on the level of WOFF (and even better
    in some cases), and works in all browsers *today*. Simon, John, David: that doesn't
    interest you?\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-17 17:09:04'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: One issue with putting garbage data in a font is that it is hard to predict
    all the workflows which it might affect. Have you tested printing to PostScript
    and non-PostScript printers, and to PDF?
  created: '2010-05-17 17:42:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But now we have a format, which has protection on the level of WOFF (and
    even better in some cases), \r\n\r\nI wouldn't describe what you've outlined as
    a \"format\", rather a set of obfuscation techniques. I find them interesting,
    but not that surprising - obfuscation is generally required by any font-maker
    considering font linking and embedding schemes, and the services (like Ascender's
    and Typekit) include obfuscation. \r\n\r\n>works in all browsers *today*.  \r\n\r\nMy
    only point was that they may not work tomorrow. In which case they'll evolve,
    or die. \r\n\r\n>their lead engineer said it's easier for them to make WOFF an
    installable format\r\n\r\nI think it\u2019s up to the W3C working group to ensure
    that <STRONG>compliant</STRONG> apps and clients do not treat WOFF as an installable
    font format. \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-17 17:50:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@davidberlow\r\n\r\n>lol\r\n\r\nJust a bit of giveback for all the amusement
    you've provided me!\r\n\r\n(Hey, will you be at Extensis' shindig in Boston this
    weekend?)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-17 20:01:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "PI>David: that doesn't interest you?\r\n\r\nYes Paul it does. Thank you for
    the interesting material. We have adopted much like what you describe in some
    of our web font obfuscation technology to serve dressed naked fonts.\r\n\r\nI'm
    always a bit leery about doing any messing with the font names because they are
    so fragile to the user, and I can't help imagining that useful file and font names
    <em>with</em> meta data support is a good goal to seek for users now. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the classic issues we've been facing (all composers and users of digital type),
    for the last 30 years, is how to keep track of fonts, (from conception to uses),
    mostly by file name and font name. So, e.g. for years we've been shoehorning size
    and foundry info into names along with family, repertoire and style info. \r\n\r\nAs
    I understand it, I could have to ship fonts like: FBSavageGothicBoldCondensedItalicDisplayProWebForIPadSVG18PTnot4woff.svg,
    and the file name could be SHTHD211.\r\n\r\nSii>My only point was that they may
    not work tomorrow. In which case they'll evolve, or die.\r\n\r\nSimon's point
    is well taken, but all obfuscation techniques must evolve or die of pressure from
    other, arguably, overriding forces as well. The point is, however, it is the combination
    of obfuscation and meta data, one for the garden and one for the court, that protect
    fonts from most manner of ill gotten gain. It is not the font format.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-17 23:26:58'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "Sii>My only point was that they may not work tomorrow. In which case they'll
    evolve, or die.\r\n\r\nSure. Though being future-proof isn't really a goal of
    this project. It looks pretty certain we'll have WOFF support across all browsers
    within 9 months. \r\n\r\nThis is stated as an interim solution, as I'd think foundries
    would be interested in licensing their fonts to work, securely, in 100% of supporting
    browsers today. :)"
  created: '2010-05-17 23:51:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">intentional poisoning of standard data formats is unconditionally evil\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/poison_5110.PNG]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-18 01:02:52'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I'm absolutely astonished that all discussions so far are concentrated on
    the feasibility of this hack and nobody is making the principled argument that
    intentional poisoning of standard data formats is unconditionally evil, and security
    by obscurity really never works -- especially when the structure of the underlying
    format is public knowledge.\r\n\r\nSince any software that encounters the intentionally
    crippled data may behave in unpredictable ways and thus open up vectors for attack,
    this kinds of hack -- in an environment as fragile as the web no less -- puts
    the data integrity and system security of the user in great danger and is therefore
    utterly irresponsible. As an user, I would consider this kind of technique a willful
    act of intrusion and endangerment -- much like <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_BMG_CD_copy_protection_scandal\">rootkit
    DRM</a> -- and say to anyone who employs it: Go to hell!\r\n\r\nSome -- actually,
    many, as it seems -- people here need a computer security 101 lecture: The integrity
    of data exchanged in an open environment has -- by magnitude -- higher priority
    than a little bit more visual enhancement for your website."
  created: '2010-05-18 01:05:57'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>One issue with putting garbage data in a font is that it is hard to
    predict all the workflows which it might affect. Have you tested printing to PostScript
    and non-PostScript printers, and to PDF?</cite>\r\n\r\nStill interested in an
    answer to Read's question."
  created: '2010-05-18 01:28:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I'm absolutely astonished that all discussions so far are concentrated
    on the feasibility of this hack and nobody is making the principled argument that
    intentional poisoning of standard data formats is unconditionally evil, and security
    by obscurity really never works -- especially when the structure of the underlying
    format is public knowledge.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou have to remember that this entire
    discussion is pretty much based on an inane fantasy in which intentional piracy
    is inevitable but users unintentionally pirate fonts by downloading web fonts
    and installing them without realizing that the a font license should be paid for
    somewhere along the way. So you really shouldn\u2019t be surprised that the methods
    for preventing such a scenario are equally ridiculous."
  created: '2010-05-18 02:04:29'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: James - Not sure I understand the tone of your post. What would you suggest?
    Typekit obfuscates, Fontspring obfuscates, Extensis, Ascender, Typotheque etc...
    To serve fonts on the web at this point has to involve a certain level of trust.
    None of the schemes offered by these services is unbreakable. I've easily downloaded
    fonts from all of the them. But if I was a "casual pirate" without the font tools,
    I would stumble here. Would you be comfortable with your naked fonts on the web?
  created: '2010-05-18 02:38:27'
- author:
    name: henrypijames
    picture: 112537
  body: "I suggest you stop messing with the standard formats and keep waiting for
    a standard-conform web font technology that you like. Not having web fonts is
    not a big deal -- having intentionally corrupted data is a huge deal.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, as an developer of several open source projects, I have absolutely no problem
    whatsoever giving away my work for free. But that's beyond the point."
  created: '2010-05-18 02:53:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I am just continually confounded at how much thought and effort goes into
    trying to protect web fonts from being used as system fonts given that casual
    pirates will probably always take the casual route and just google \u201Cfontname
    font rapidshare OR torrent\u201D. I don\u2019t entirely love the idea of naked
    fonts on the web. But I don\u2019t see a need for all these hacks because I think
    it silly to believe that anyone who will to make the effort to pirate web fonts
    would pay for fonts to begin with."
  created: '2010-05-18 04:54:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "henrypijames >I suggest you stop messing with the standard formats \r\n\r\nThank
    you for your comments. My advice is that you should read more. Nothing poisonous
    is being done to the standard itself. The parts of the standard that are used
    for web fonts are unmolested when compared, e.g. to the glyph standards, etc.
    \r\n\r\nType developers tread a complex maze of non-standard interpretations of
    the standard formats where OS developers play every hidden card they have to improve
    the performance of fonts on their systems, often with disregard to; the standard,
    the courtesy of documentation, and the web. \r\n\r\nYou could consider this kind
    of technique a willful act of intrusion and endangerment and tell them to go to
    hell, fine. We prefer to work through these difficulties like agnostics, (and
    I admire you for how little you know on this topic). \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-18 13:50:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paul irish\r\n\r\n<em>This is stated as an interim solution, as I'd think
    foundries would be interested in licensing their fonts to work, securely, in 100%
    of supporting browsers today.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you've unintentionally hit the
    nail on the head. I don't think font producers - in the main - are much interested
    in licensing their fonts to work in 100% of browsers today. I've never, ever heard
    any enthusiasm for providing web fonts at all. <strong>And I don't think there
    will be much enthusiasm for it after WOFF and EOT are ubiquitous, either.</strong>\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I <em>have</em> heard regarding licensing for the web is that \"We don't
    yet know what business model is going to work\". And that therefore, judgment
    should be suspended while experimentation with different models goes forward.\r\n\r\nYet,
    the one experiment I have yet to see tried by any established commercial font
    producer would seem to me to be the first choice/no-brainer: take a few fonts
    with good screen quality and offer to license them for web use and see what happens.\r\nUntil
    such a test marketing occurs, anybody who waxes forth about \"well, we don't know
    what will work\" is simply full of hot air IMHO.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-18 18:12:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>I am just continually confounded at how much thought and effort
    goes into trying to protect web fonts from being used as system fonts given that
    casual pirates will probably always take the casual route and just google \u201Cfontname
    font rapidshare OR torrent\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not my definition of 'casual
    piracy'. That's an intentional act to obtain a thing, not having a thing arrive
    on your computer because you visited a website.\r\n\r\n<em>But I don\u2019t see
    a need for all these hacks because I think it silly to believe that anyone who
    will to make the effort to pirate web fonts would pay for fonts to begin with.</em>\r\n\r\nExclusivity
    is a core value of a typeface. This is why clients pay more for exclusive use
    of a typeface than they do for non-exclusive use, and why retail licensors expect
    diminishing returns for a popular font: the more people who have a font, the less
    value it is perceived to have. Unlicensed use undermines this value, so whether
    the unlicensed user would or would not have paid for a license to begin with is
    irrelevant. It's especially irrelevant to my clients who are looking to use fonts
    on the web that are not available for licensing to other parties anyway. They
    are not interested in protecting sales, they are interested in protecting their
    investment in the exclusive value of those fonts.\r\n___\r\n\r\nNow, having said
    that, let me be clear that I'm not in favour of font obfuscation methods. The
    proper response to browsers that only support naked fonts for @font-face is not
    to support those browsers."
  created: '2010-05-18 18:49:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Henry: <em>I suggest you stop messing with the standard formats and keep
    waiting for a standard-conform web font technology that you like. Not having web
    fonts is not a big deal -- having intentionally corrupted data is a huge deal.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd
    agree with that.\r\n\r\nOne of the things that OpenType made possible was the
    cleaning up of a lot of hacked, non-standard font data that had proliferated during
    the 8-bit years."
  created: '2010-05-18 19:06:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>I don't think font producers - in the main - are much interested in
    licensing their fonts to work in 100% of browsers today. I've never, ever heard
    any enthusiasm for providing web fonts at all. And I don't think there will be
    much enthusiasm for it after WOFF and EOT are ubiquitous, either.</cite>\r\n\r\nWha?\r\n\r\nMonotype's
    new service, along with Typekit and all the others, provide fonts that are compatible
    with virtually all browsers. I'm sure Monotype, Ascender, FontShop, et al. are
    quite enthusiastic about it. Quite a while ago, Adobe joined Monotype in Microsoft
    to support standardization of EOT, the goal of which was to get web fonts working
    in all browsers."
  created: '2010-05-18 19:54:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> Now, having said that, let me be clear that I'm not in favour of font
    obfuscation methods. \r\n\r\nMe neither it all sucks. When OT is Safest, you know
    what I mean. \r\n\r\nJh> The proper response to browsers that only support naked
    fonts for @font-face is not to support those browsers.\r\n\r\nNow now. If we all
    felt that way about each browser maker's choice, we'd have nothing to @font-face
    to at all.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-18 20:08:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...we'd have nothing to @font-face to at all.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd
    say that, at the present time, there is precious little to which to @font-face,
    but a lot of people pretending that there is and trying to make us think that
    there is some kind of pressing imperative that obliges us to do in a matter of
    a few months -- using whatever hacks and compromises will get us to market --
    what has clearly not been a pressing imperative for more than a decade. It's surely
    a good thing that web type is finally moving, but between total inertia and running
    blindly off a cliff there is a lot of leeway for the kind of movement that goes
    places. There is going to be a cross-browser, standard web font format, and I
    don't see the point of compromising either principles or data to support what
    will quickly be, in the context of that format, non-standard legacy solutions
    affecting a minority of users. I see no more reason to support 100% of current
    browsers than I did to support 100% of word processing and page layout applications
    that didn't handle Unicode text or could only access variants using PUA mappings.\r\n___\r\n\r\nFor
    me, web fonts present something of a novel situation. For a dozen years, I've
    been making a lot of fonts that in one way or another wouldn't work in current
    software. I'd make them, ship them, and wait for the applications to support the
    features. Sometimes I took the long road, and had to propose characters to Unicode,
    get them approved and published in the standard, and wait for them to be supported
    in software before the font would work.\r\n\r\nSo it's quite amusing to be looking
    at a situation in which software makers have invented a web served font mechanism
    for which there are almost no fonts."
  created: '2010-05-18 21:50:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Slightly off topic @John: I\u2019ve seen way too many fonts designed with
    zero attention to how they behave in MS Office! That\u2019s a definite dealbreaker
    for identities, at least if someone are going to use the fonts inhouse."
  created: '2010-05-18 23:23:17'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: This thread really makes me chuckle. Thanks guys.
  created: '2010-05-19 01:42:53'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "FWIW John Daggett (editor of the CSS3 Fonts spec) and font maestro at Mozilla
    gave his feedback on the details above:\r\n\r\n<cite>Yeah, that should work fine
    I think.  I would try printing under OSX, since that's where swizzling the PS
    name might matter.  If the FF code changes in the future it will probably change
    towards the Chrome way of doing things, namely dropping the name table altogether
    so that we avoid all the nonsense associated with it on Windows.</cite>"
  created: '2010-05-19 02:07:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: How is a a font identified without the name table? How is style linking handled
    without the name table?
  created: '2010-05-19 04:09:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Frank, I think I can safely say that most of the fonts I have created have
    been made with altogether too much attention to how they behave in MS Office.
    :)
  created: '2010-05-19 04:11:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>How is a a font identified without the name table? How is style linking
    handled without the name table?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou set this all up in the CSS and
    the font is just identified as a reference to a file. "
  created: '2010-05-19 07:55:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Ralf. I figured it was like that.\r\n\r\nHeh, I love the idea that
    one could set up CSS to style link italic text as letterspaced fraktur. :)"
  created: '2010-05-19 19:43:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\nThe future isn't what it used to be, that's for sure.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 23:43:57'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Heh, I love the idea that one could set up CSS to style link italic
    text as letterspaced fraktur. :) </cite>\r\n\r\nGoudy would love it, eh? Sheepstealer.com
    anyone? ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-20 00:44:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John: Currently my blog is using Raleigh for upright and Janson for italics....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-05-21 02:28:15'
- author:
    name: VBM
    picture: 119135
  body: 'Isn''t this really just a cheap exploit and not truly obfuscation? I think
    these fonts could still be opened in Fontlab et al after conversion and regenerated
    as installable fonts making all your efforts in deleting fields a waste of time.
    I know of at least 2 glyph extractors that won''t be affected by this already.  '
  created: '2010-05-24 10:44:24'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nIn your css file http://www.thomasphinney.com/wp-content/themes/blog-one/style.css
    I got a link for you italic, \"opened\" it with Safari 4.0.5 in OS X 10.5.8, which
    in fact saved a file in Downloads, a file that I could open directly with my prefered
    font editor. I did not get Janson. I can see the opentype tables, etc. It would
    no doubt be easy to save it as an installable font.\r\n\r\nCan someone explain
    to me what the protection mechanism is supposed to be? If the file I saved had
    been encrypted with a random key sent by my browser and only known to it, that
    would have been a much better protection. No need for a safe encryption algorithm,
    something fast would be enough.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-05-24 11:59:01'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If the file I saved had been encrypted with a random key sent by my
    browser and only known to it, that would have been a much better protection.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    not the job of the browser developers.\r\n\r\n-----------\r\n\r\nChanging the
    name table is idiotic. It is absolute no protection and easily to repair. It is
    so naive to think, that this could protect fonts against piracy. Even a font editor
    is not needed for correcting the name table, TTX is enough."
  created: '2010-05-24 12:10:53'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "What you fellows don't get is that you are not the people this \"hack\" is
    aimed at. I too figured out the workflow to steal Typekit fonts, ascender, fonts.com
    etc. It isn't hard. But it is specialized knowledge and specialized tools. How
    many scrapbookers, web developers and even mildly sophisticated \"hackers\" know
    1) What those tools are and 2) How a font is actually put together?\r\n\r\nThis
    is not fortress-style protection. Isn't meant to be. It is garden fence protection.
    It keeps \"normal people\" off the grass."
  created: '2010-05-24 14:09:39'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "FontSquirrel\r\n\r\nDo you really think it is harder than extracting a font
    from an unprotected pdf? "
  created: '2010-05-24 14:58:07'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Well, I don't know. I've never tried. What do you do, extract the PDF through
    FontForge?
  created: '2010-05-24 15:09:34'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Michel: <cite>Do you really think it is harder than extracting a font from
    an unprotected pdf?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's the relevance of this comparison?"
  created: '2010-05-24 15:43:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Do you really think it is harder than extracting a font from an unprotected
    pdf?\r\n\r\nI think you hit the nail on the head. 98.6% of font designers are
    okay with PDF embedding (unprotected or otherwise) so if these hacks provide a
    similar level of protection against truly casual drag-and-drop font re-use then
    they're okay with these @font-face schemes.  \r\n"
  created: '2010-05-24 15:46:34'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "In fact, the fontname is also extracted from the unprotected pdf, so the
    font is ready to be saved (with missing characters, no kerning table etc). On
    the other hand, with what I got from font-face above, the hacker needs to adjust
    the names, which is more work indeed, and that also requires some knowledge; however,
    less characters are likely to be missing from the resulting font, if any, and
    the useful tables are there (GPOS: kern, GSUB: aalt frac, onum, lnum, pnum, etc.).
    I can't imagine a font producer that writes in his EULA that his font may not
    be embedded and then makes his font available with font-face unless there is something
    I am missing (some bit that needed to be checked and that the sofware I used did
    not check, for instance, because it is not up to date).\r\n\r\nedit: this post
    was written before the two previous posts."
  created: '2010-05-24 16:05:51'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "<cite>I think you hit the nail on the head. 98.6% of font designers are okay
    with PDF embedding (unprotected or otherwise) so if these hacks provide a similar
    level of protection against truly casual drag-and-drop font re-use then they're
    okay with these @font-face schemes.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, I never made the connection,
    but Simon you are right. If the comparison holds up that PDF embedding is approximate
    to font-face embedding... well, that is big news for getting designers on board
    with this idea."
  created: '2010-05-24 16:07:31'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Like clockwork, this straw man argument pops up: <cite>This will not stop
    piracy.</cite>\r\n\r\nNobody is trying to stop piracy. We are trying to reduce
    piracy, and much piracy is unintentional, because people don't know what they're
    doing is prohibited. If I own 100 acres of open space and don't put a fence around
    it, should I be surprised when people wander onto my property? I can put up a
    simple fence with some signs and significantly reduce trespassing -- and I can
    now go up to someone I find on my property and be more confident that they know
    what they're doing is wrong.\r\n\r\nA message to the font geeks: Foundries are
    well aware that you can extract a font out of EOT or WOFF or PDF. It's not news."
  created: '2010-05-24 19:35:38'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite> I can put up a simple fence with some signs and significantly reduce
    trespassing </cite>\r\n\r\nSome people would also  put a lock on the gate."
  created: '2010-05-24 19:59:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Christopher\r\n\r\nIf someone downloads a web font, he either wants to
    use it as web font or as font installed on his system. If he wants to use it as
    web font, the messed up name table does not need to be corrected and the woff
    file not to be converted. But if he is able to convert the woff file, he also
    will make out, how to correct the name table. And if he does not make it out,
    he asks somebody to do that for him. Manipulating the name table as protection
    is useless. Except from that you violate specifications. It is not the job of
    the browser developers to care about violated specifications. There is no guarantee,
    that fonts with manipulated name tables work in all browsers (and other media/programs,
    that can access/display/print web content / CSS formatted markup languages), that
    support web font embedding."
  created: '2010-05-24 20:01:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Manipulating the name table as protection is useless. Except from that
    you violate specifications.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually, AFAIK the technique described
    here is not a violation of the OpenType spec.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't contribute much
    to the discussion to declare this approach \"useless\". I haven't tested it myself,
    but if it does indeed make the font useless on the desktop but useful in a browser,
    then that is perhaps useful to someone."
  created: '2010-05-24 23:16:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Christopher\r\nFrom the OpenType spec \u2013 Name ID 2 (Font Subfamily
    name): <em>The Font Subfamily name distiguishes the font in a group with the same
    Font Family name (name ID 1). This is assumed to address style (italic, oblique)
    and weight (light, bold, black, etc.). A font with no particular differences in
    weight or style (e.g. medium weight, not italic and fsSelection bit 6 set) should
    have the string \u201CRegular\u201D stored in this position.</em>\r\n\r\nFrom
    the TrueType spec 1.66 \u2013 Name ID 2 (Font Subfamily name): <em>for purposes
    of definition, this is assumed to address style (italic, oblique) and weight (light,
    bold, black, etc.) <strong>only</strong>. A font with no particular differences
    in weight or style (e.g. medium weight, not italic and fsSelection bit 6 set)
    should have the string \u201CRegular\u201D stored in this position.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    difference is the word <em>only.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you follow the TT spec, you violate
    the specification. If you follow the OT spec, you violate the specification, because
    name ID 6 should be identically with the PS name in the CFF-table, if present.\r\n\r\nExcept
    from that using empty strings is not in the intention of the specification.\r\n\r\nAnd
    with regard to name ID 6: <em>If no name ID 6 is present, then there is no defined
    method for invoking this font on a PostScript interpreter.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, what
    happens, if I want to print a web page on a PS printer, especially if all web
    fonts have the same name string there and if the fonts are in the printer cache,
    which probably could happen?\r\n\r\nManipulating the name table smells like trouble.
    You cannot know, if it works with all programs for which web fonts are intended
    to be used \u2013 all programs, that can display CSS-formatted markup. Those programs
    are not necessarily web browsers. (Well, Firefox is a browser, but its skin can
    be formatted with the help of CSS embedded web fonts. What is with other programs,
    that base on XUL and other markup languages?)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-25 08:39:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...if I want to print a web page on a PS printer, especially if all web
    fonts have the same name string...\r\n\r\nDid PS become part of the web standard
    at some point, and I missed it?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-25 11:57:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "@ \"Arno Enslin\"\r\nNitpicking. Name table obfuscation intends to produce
    fonts that are not entirely complete/correct and thus of limited use. Whether
    such fonts \"violate\" the spec or not is a moot point. Whether this is a good
    idea or not depends on whether or not you do or do not want to achieve certain
    effects.\r\nAnd the argument which you are using against Mr Slye and Mr Roberts,
    pointing to possible (mere hypothesis as of yet!) printing issues, is something
    that has been raised by Mr Roberts and Mr Slye first when they asked, \"Have you
    tested printing to PostScript and non-PostScript printers, and to PDF?\" See their
    comments above."
  created: '2010-05-25 12:05:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>A message to the font geeks: Foundries are well aware that you can
    extract a font out of EOT or WOFF or PDF. It's not news.</cite>\r\n\r\nChristopher\r\n\r\nI
    was surprised that it was so easy to get those files on the desktop in the first
    place; if they had been in some hard to find cache, I would not have mentioned
    it. Now that I get instead of a file an \"Access denied\" with what a \"naive
    user\" could do, I feel much better about your scheme. Hard to believe that till
    yesterday the door had been left wide open!\r\n\r\nMichel  "
  created: '2010-05-25 12:52:32'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Did PS become part of the web standard at some point, and I missed
    it?</cite>\r\n\r\nWeb standard? If you mean the specifications of CSS and HTML,
    it is possible to provide CSS for printers only. You even can format web documents
    in a way, that the content is visible in print only \u2013 except you turn of
    CSS.\r\n\r\n@ k.l.\r\n\r\nIt is not a moot point, if you don\u2019t know exactly
    the consequences of violating specifications. Except from that I miss the relation
    between the level of protection and the violation of specifications in this case.
    The hurdle to access a font is slightly higher only. The pirate still has to convert
    woff to ttf or otf (actually from the command line). If he is able to do that,
    he will also be able to edit the name table or to ask someone who is able to do
    that.\r\n\r\nI think I could write a small program, that makes use of TTX and
    automates the process of correcting the name table in a way, that the font is
    installable. Manipulating the name table is not a protection, but a joke."
  created: '2010-05-25 12:56:21'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Hey look! I can download the entire H+FJ library just by Googling "hfj fonts
    torrent." I think you are barking up the wrong tree Arno.
  created: '2010-05-25 16:12:21'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ fontsquirrel\r\n\r\nTorrent? What\u2019s that? I live in times of rapidshare
    and megaupload. But you are right. Sooner or later every font floats around. Only
    those people, that can\u2019t wait and can\u2019t get enough, extract and hack
    fonts. And for these people a manipulated name table is no hurdle.\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, manipulating the name table can have the negative effect, that people, that
    correct the name table, don\u2019t put the original font names in it. More people
    will learn, how to set font names. And, I may be wrong, in some countries primary
    the name is copyright protected. It may be, that it is harder to sue then.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    in my opinion web fonts are primary interesting for that, for which they are intended
    \u2013 embedding them in CSS, because if they are fragmented, their use outside
    the web is limited. And unfragmenting the parts requires much more knowledge than
    changing the name table. So, if the web fonts are pirated for the use in the web,
    there even is no need to correct the name table."
  created: '2010-05-25 18:00:52'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: 'Fragmented fonts were a clever hack devised by Typekit. It has several disadvantages
    however: 1) It breaks in Opera 2) Breaks some advanced CSS properties like text-shadow
    in Safari.'
  created: '2010-05-25 19:35:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\n\r\nThanks for doing the spec work - I was hoping someone would
    look closely and save me the trouble. But the problem is, now I have to double-check
    you. Responsible journalism lives. Sort of.\r\n\r\n@christopherslye\r\n\r\n<em>Monotype's
    new service, along with Typekit and all the others, provide fonts that are compatible
    with virtually all browsers. I'm sure Monotype, Ascender, FontShop, et al. are
    quite enthusiastic about it.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are right. But please don't tell
    me there wasn't/isn't a lot of fear and apprehension. Resentment, too. I'm not
    judging, just commenting. And reacting.\r\nDid I miss something? Was the font
    community urging browser makers to implement @font-face?\r\nNo. But the browser
    makers did and this forced decisions. Now that those decisions have been made,
    if there wasn't <em>some</em> enthusiasm about engaging with customers for web
    fonts I would wonder about the emotional health of those involved. Even though
    that engagement is a little tentative and skeptical and conditional - with the
    obfuscation and whatnot.\r\n\r\nBut what if the skeptics are right? And the whole
    font services thing is just a ploy to lure font designers out into the open so
    all the \"information wants to be free\" types can shoot them down like a bunch
    of turkeys?\r\n\r\nGobble gobble.\r\n\r\nOne thing I can tell you for sure: if
    you want web designers to respect you, you have to respect them and every font
    designer who wants to do business on the web effectively needs to have a blog
    or some equivalent line of communication to field customer inquiries about their
    fonts. Independent of whatever mega-site or service might be selling your stuff.
    Look, I can't <em>prove</em> this - at least not yet - but it's my hunch that
    responsiveness and accountability is going to go a long way.\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n\r\n98.6%?
    \r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-26 13:11:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I think you are barking up the wrong tree Arno.\r\n\r\nI don't see the relationship
    between the acts required to protect ones fonts from free downloads and/or their
    use as unlicensed font software,     and the kinds of things one might do to protect
    ones fonts and licensed authoring users while ones font software products are
    being downloaded to unknowing end users?\r\n\r\nCranberry Blog will cover this
    and other ways to steal fonts, if I have time after the kevlar feathers are finished.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-26 18:54:05'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: David, I have no idea what you just said. Heh.
  created: '2010-05-26 20:05:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Maybe there <em>is</em> something to obfuscation after all! :-)
  created: '2010-05-26 20:15:47'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Nice Craig. You made me laugh out loud.
  created: '2010-05-26 20:31:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>David, I have no idea what you just said. Heh.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I
    thought, it was my poor English.\r\n\r\n<cite>There shall in that time be rumors
    of things going astray, erm, and there shall be a great confusion as to where
    things really are, and nobody will really know where lieth those little things
    with the sort of raffia-work base, that has an attachment. At that time, a friend
    shall lose his friend's hammer, and the young shall not know where lieth the things
    possessed by their fathers that their fathers put there only just the night before,
    about eight O'clock.</cite>"
  created: '2010-05-26 20:39:28'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>But please don't tell me there wasn't/isn't a lot of fear and apprehension.
    Resentment, too. I'm not judging, just commenting. And reacting. Did I miss something?
    Was the font community urging browser makers to implement @font-face? No. But
    the browser makers did and this forced decisions.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust remember
    that @font-face was around for quite a long time in IE for EOT (and in Netscape
    Navigator, heh). To be quite honest I wasn't paying attention when that was rolled
    out, but I don't remember a lot of FUD over EOT. Of course you're thinking of
    @font-face for raw fonts, which did generate a lot of anxiety, but that was not
    because of web fonts generally, but because they weren't protected in Safari,
    et al. Would there have been anxiety if all the other browsers had suddenly rolled
    out support for EOT? I think not.\r\n\r\nThe subscription services are, IMO, a
    great solution to the problems that foundries had with raw font linking. I think
    most foundries would have liked it if the other browsers added support for EOT,
    too, but it wasn't to be. If anything, the foundries weren't paying attention
    and should have done a better job of planning and campaigning for web fonts much
    earlier, but I don't think it was out of fear. I think it was just inertia."
  created: '2010-05-27 00:47:43'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Christopher\r\n\r\nWhy are embedded fonts less protected with Safari? Do
    you think, base64 is any hurdle?\r\n\r\nThis is from a Typekit CSS displayed in
    Firefox. What\u2019s protected there?\r\n\r\n@font-face {\r\nfont-family: \"font-family-NumberOfBlablaFont\";\r\nsrc:
    url(data:font/woff;base64,BlablaFontCode);\r\nfont-style: normal;\r\nfont-weight:
    700;\r\n}\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 09:10:52'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "I think Christopher's point is that since Safari and Firefox support raw
    font linking, they offer no hurdles whatsoever. His point is that EOT files at
    least aren't installable and therefore less likely to be stolen. I agree with
    you that these hurdles are insignificant for anyone actively looking to steal
    fonts. But these people are not the ones we are protecting our fonts from.\r\n\r\nPermit
    me to classify end users in three categories.\r\n\r\n1. Honest end users who try
    hard to honor EULAs. They may *perhaps* download something to learn about it,
    but would never just steal and install. My experience tells me this is 70%-80%+
    of the people out there.\r\n\r\n2. Casual thieves, who would take if the opportunity
    presented itself and there wasn't much work involved. 20%? (that seems too high)\r\n\r\n3.
    Dedicated hackers, who could run circles around you, laughing at your silly attempts
    to stop them. <1%\r\n\r\nObviously foundries would love to control all theft,
    but realize that the digital nature of fonts makes that impossible. Therefore,
    move on to the next best thing and raise the difficulty in stealing them. I honestly
    think that this scheme covers 99%+ of end users.\r\n\r\nFrom what I understand,
    Mr. Berlow would also like to add detailed permissions to the font, so that he
    would have legal protection as well... (think of a Font Bureau font-sniffing bot,
    scouring the internet to see if you are honoring your EULA.) :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 13:31:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...(think of a Font Bureau font-sniffing bot, scouring the internet to see
    if you are honoring your EULA.) :-)\r\n\r\nNot almost entirely incorrect I'm afraid;
    You might have me confused with someone in the in-crowd supporting woff's private
    data block?\r\n\r\n>From what I understand, Mr. Berlow would also like to add
    detailed permissions to the font, so that he would have legal protection as well...
    \r\n\r\nWhat Mr. Berlow wants primarily to add is recommendations meta data, so
    authors can find out what fonts they need to use (to-the-property), and end users
    can sniff around at authorley type behavior. \r\n\r\nIt should be obvious to you,
    that when the tumult over goofy browser rendering ends, there will be a \"next\"
    tumult, or is one-tumult-at-a-time far enough for you to look? ;)\r\n\r\nAs a
    'commercial' vendor, I feel we have this already in hand, (preventing bad matches
    between users/use and fonts), and are likely to start swinging it around to our
    advantage. I'm wondering when the 'non-commercial' vendors are going to catch
    up otherwise, i.e. without a standard?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-27 14:46:32'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Does anyone here speak Berlow? \r\n\r\n<cite>Not almost entirely incorrect
    I'm afraid; You might have me confused with someone in the in-crowd supporting
    woff's private data block?</cite>\r\n\r\nSo am I right, or am I wrong? I am almost
    not entirely somewhat possibly sure what you mean :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>What Mr. Berlow
    wants primarily to add is recommendations meta data, so authors can find out what
    fonts they need to use (to-the-property), and end users can sniff around at authorley
    type behavior.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot following. Who are the authors and who are the
    end-users? If authors are font designers, then why do they need to \"find out
    what fonts they need to use?\" And what is \"authorley type behavior?\"\r\n\r\n<cite>It
    should be obvious to you, that when the tumult over goofy browser rendering ends,
    there will be a \"next\" tumult, or is one-tumult-at-a-time far enough for you
    to look? ;)</cite>\r\n\r\nI never was a good chess player. One tumult at a time
    for me, thanks.\r\n\r\n<cite>As a 'commercial' vendor, I feel we have this already
    in hand, (preventing bad matches between users/use and fonts), and are likely
    to start swinging it around to our advantage. I'm wondering when the 'non-commercial'
    vendors are going to catch up otherwise, i.e. without a standard?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a 'non-commercial' vendor and where can I find one?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 15:11:09'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Ethan \u2014\r\n\r\nI think David is interested in having as much information
    and guidance as possible about what a font is intended and designed for \u2014
    legal and typographical, equally \u2014 embedded in the font itself (i.e., self-contained,
    it goes everywhere with it), so that Ignorance is Never an Excuse, legally or
    typographically.\r\n\r\nPeople will still do what they do.\r\n\r\nFrom everything
    I\u2019ve ever heard from David in this regard, enforcement is not necessarily
    a goal or, at least, is a completely separate issue. So, as far as a FB font-sniffing
    bot is concerned, you are wrong, I believe.\r\n\r\nHow all this data is then used
    remains to be seen. Who knows what might be possible once its in there? \r\n\r\nSimple
    kinds of questions frequently asked here on Typophile \u2014 like \u201CIs this
    font good for ____?\u201D,\u201CWhat version should I use for ____?\u201D, \u201CAm
    I allowed to do ____ with this font?\u201D \u2014 could simply be directed to
    the font itself.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 16:02:05'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010AprJun/0153.html\">Meanwhile,
    the W3C WebFonts Working Group is considering to make access to woff metadata
    optional.</a>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010AprJun/0235.html\">I
    think this is a bad idea.</a>"
  created: '2010-05-27 16:03:36'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Meanwhile, the W3C WebFonts Working Group is considering to make access
    to woff metadata optional.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is really no stopping this from
    happening. Just as browser makers balked at standardizing EOT -- which would have
    required browsers to enforce EOT's security measures -- they are not interested
    in a requirement to present WOFF metadata. There is a large gap between technical
    requirements which ensure that fonts work properly, and other (desired) features
    which exist to \"only\" enlighten users or satisfy foundry interests.\r\n\r\nThere
    was fairly strong pushback from browser developers over the use of the word 'should'
    with regard to metadata (\"browsers SHOULD present users with information from
    metadata\"). Right now it looks like it will be 'may'. It's definitely not going
    to be 'must'.\r\n\r\nAs some have observed, the spec has to dictate to not just
    desktop browsers, but any user agent, which might be a lightweight mobile UA,
    for example. Requiring every UA to add a UI element to expose information in WOFF
    metadata was not considered realistic. This is disappointing to me personally,
    but I understand their objections.\r\n\r\nDespite the lack of requirement, I think
    all the browser developers are interested in adding this functionality. Foundries
    can cooperate to make metadata consistent, useful and predictable, so that browser
    developers will see value in adding such a feature for their users. Just because
    it's not required doesn't mean it won't happen."
  created: '2010-05-27 17:56:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Who are the authors and who are the end-users? \r\n\r\nWait a minute. First
    bend your arm until your hand is right near your chin. See that pointy thing half
    way between your hand and shoulder? That's your elbow. Now... are you sitting
    down?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-05-27 22:05:11'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Christopher\r\n\r\nI may misunderstand you. Do you think, that metadata
    would be a kind of protection? Removing (personalized) metadata from woff files
    is probably easier than correcting font names. Convert woff to sfnt and then sfnt
    to woff and the personalized information is deleted. And again, it absolutely
    is not the job of browser developers to care about the private needs of foundries
    or any other software developers. Their only job is, to develop stably, comfortable
    programs, that strictly follow the specifications. I remember the decade, in which
    Microsoft has dominated the market with its shitty IE, that violated the specifications,
    and I am glad, that this time has gone. Browsers are not developed with the intention,
    that anyone can better sell his fonts with them."
  created: '2010-05-27 22:32:32'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Arno: No, I don't think metadata is protection. Sorry, I wasn't clear with
    my analogy. I only mentioned the EOT protest because in that case, as with WOFF
    metadata, the browser developers wanted to avoid a requirement to deal with something
    that will come between simply fetching and rendering a font. In EOT's case, they
    would have had to verify EOT's security measures or be out of compliance. In the
    case of WOFF metadata, they would have to add a UI element to expose it or be
    out of compliance.\r\n\r\nTrue, the browser must follow the specifications. That's
    why they are trying to avoid putting something in the specification that they
    think makes no sense -- or that they think many user agents would ignore and cause
    them to be noncompliant."
  created: '2010-05-28 01:08:15'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "I'm still a believer in server-side protections, like the one Typotheque
    uses. I wrote an open version using a combination of php sessions and filename
    obfuscation to block source downloads:\r\nhttp://subjectiveobject.com/2009/10/28/securing-font-face/"
  created: '2010-05-28 22:53:09'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Aaron is on the right track.\r\n\r\nProtecting fonts from being installable
    in an OS will seem quaint and silly in a decade when using fonts for something
    other that the web will be a rarity. Install fonts on your OS? Whatever, grandpa!
    In the near future, nobody will even want to install a font on an OS. They'll
    want to hotlink them. I think that's what we should be working to prevent.\r\n\r\nCasual
    font pirates (the ones wearing chinos) won't share fonts. They'll share URLs to
    unprotected fonts, ripped right off of style sheets: all hotlinkable. If they
    change the font style in their Tumblr template, they've got any font you want.
    Design software, being web based, will allow you to link to an URL of a font.
    Font pirate sites will just be lists of hotlinkable URLs.\r\n\r\nHosted fonts
    are a solution but it's not for everyone. Some people want to host the fonts themselves
    which I can understand. Perhaps this could be solution provided by font vendors.\r\nLet's
    say . . . when you buy a font for web use, you get few days of leeway to install
    and test the font. A few days later you get a reminder from the font vendor that
    your font needs to be \"web activated\" if it is to comply with the EULA. You
    send the URL to the vendor and it automatically checks to make sure you've taken
    measures to prevent hotlinking*. If the font isn't activated, the vendor lets
    you know that embedding/linking the font on the web is a violation the EULA but
    they can still use the font for other purposes.\r\n\r\n* like that Typotheque
    link in Aaron's post above"
  created: '2010-05-29 02:00:16'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Aaron\r\n\r\nWith the help of the Firefox extension \"Cache Viewer\" it
    was no problem to safe the font. I only had to change the extension of SpoofFont.php
    (Size is 18.136 Bytes. Font contains 46 characters.). Except from that your font
    was displayed as Verdana in my Firefox (my default sans serif); this means, that
    Firefox was unable to make use of your font.\r\n\r\nHowever, I agree, that this
    is a better protection."
  created: '2010-05-29 06:17:21'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Server-side protection also doesn't deserve the word \"protection\". The
    fonts ARE downloaded to the client and this successful request can always easily
    be rebuild to do a direct download or the fonts can be taken from the cache. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Casual
    font pirates (the ones wearing chinos) won't share fonts. They'll share URLs to
    unprotected fonts,</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich doesn't work with the \"Same-origin rule\"
    in Firefox, which I hope will be included in other browsers as well. But leaving
    out all Firefox users, makes hot-linking kind of useless already. \r\n\r\n\r\nI
    am kind of surprised this discussion comes up at the moment. We discussed all
    this in the last 2 years here on Typophile, including server-side protection and
    name table obfuscating. Now almost every day a new webfont service is announced.
    And they all use obfuscation. Even FSI who doesn't offer raw fonts directly, offers
    it via Typekit. There is no doubt that this IS the interim solution until WOFF
    is fully established. "
  created: '2010-05-29 07:30:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Even FSI who doesn't offer raw fonts directly</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you
    sure? I remember a discussion on Typophile, in which someone wrote, that he had
    licensed a raw for web embedding from FSI. I think it was Milo. It was very expensive
    in comparison to Typekit, especially because the license was for the web version
    of the font only, as far as I remember.\r\n\r\nHowever, up till now I haven\u2019t
    seen a web font, that has beaten the MS system fonts with regard to legibility.
    Actually web font embedding is primary interesting with regard to deco fonts or
    if the webpages are intended for printing. In this case I would provide different
    CSS for different media.\r\n\r\nExcept from that the best websites I have seen
    were not made by typographers. In my opinion some of you overestimate the meaning
    of commercial webfonts for the graphical quality of websites.\r\n\r\nThis is still
    one of my favorite websites with regard to its style:\r\nhttp://www.fishmarketing.net/\r\n\r\n(Actually)
    a webfont could not really improve the site because of technical limitations."
  created: '2010-05-29 10:52:26'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Arno:\r\nYou are against everything and for nothing. How boring."
  created: '2010-05-29 11:38:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Tim\r\n\r\n<cite>You are against everything and for nothing.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t know, from what you conclude that. I am for a free web \u2013 a web
    with almost no control, for browsers that strictly follow the specifications,
    for OpenSource, for the CSS Zen Garden. For me the web is not primary a market
    place. I am interested in a web, that becomes attractive by private sites, investigative
    journalist, Wikileaks. If the web becomes more attractive, because private sites
    use commercial fonts without a license, yes, then I am even for font piracy. I
    am against piracy only in cases, in which pirates earn money in any way (with
    the pieces of work or with sales of the prey). I am against Steve Jobs, against
    the government of my country, for honey melons, for Mario Feliciano, for Honduran
    cigars, for Russian and Polish science fiction, for most blues \u2013 from cobalt
    blue to azure. And for women, that are unshaved in the intimate area (I am damn
    conservative with regard to that!)."
  created: '2010-05-29 12:09:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\n\r\n>In this case [printing]I would provide different CSS for different
    media.\r\n\r\nI agree. On today's web, print style sheets are a rarity. But for
    those sites that feature certain kinds of content I believe that will change.
    And web fonts are a big step towards making that an attractive proposition. I
    mean, there's just so much Georgia and Times you can stand.\r\nMy belief: the
    mix of HTML/CSS/JavaScript that powers the web will become the primary \"desktop
    publishing\" platform as well. Economics will drive it. There is simply no reason
    to spend the money printing and warehousing a print edition when the print edition
    can be contained within the \"screen edition\" and printed as needed by both the
    publisher OR the reader.\r\n\r\n>(Actually) a webfont could not really improve
    the site because of technical limitations. [http://www.fishmarketing.net]\r\n\r\nUntrue
    - IMHO. They are using background image replacement for headings. It's a pain
    in the ass compared to using a font. The text is unselectable by the user. And
    it can create accessibility and search issues. (But I admit, I'm not up on the
    latest about those two.) Any way you slice it, using images for text is a hack
    and I'll be glad to see it go.\r\n\r\n@ray\r\n\r\n>Protecting fonts from being
    installable in an OS will seem quaint and\r\n>silly in a decade when using fonts
    for something other than\r\n>the web will be a rarity.\r\n\r\nYup.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-29 14:30:59'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@ralf\r\nThanks, I didn't know about the same origin rule in Firefox.\r\n\r\nI'm
    still concerned hotlinking. I'm not concerned about a few fonts being hotlinkable.
    I'm concerned about what will happen after a decade of font linking with no protection.
    Unless it's actually illegal to make a browser that forbids hotlinking, browsers
    and other apps will eventually display hotlinked fonts. No?"
  created: '2010-05-29 15:08:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-29 15:09:29'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Richard\r\n\r\nIn case of the website <a href =\"http://www.fishmarketing.net\">fishmarekting</a>
    and many of the styles for the CSS Zen Garden a web font could not much improve
    the impression, that you get from the site. (In case of fishmarketing the letters
    on the book, the hatchet and the label at the bottom right could not be replaced
    by a web font.) In all cases, in which letters are really fused with images, web
    fonts cannot replace image-replacement. Additionally you cannot create the same
    effects with CSS as with Photoshop. With regard to headlines in a linear design
    I agree. And if the hinting of body text webfonts is on the same level as the
    hinting of some of the MS system fonts, other fonts than the system fonts are
    useful for body text. But in case of the following site the webfont is not an
    improvement in my opinion: \"http://www.engstfeld-weiss.de/\". It is just the
    other way around in case of that site. Except from the font, that does not really
    look good in body text on screen, the site is ordinary and boring.\r\n\r\nWith
    regard to Javascript: I try to avoid it."
  created: '2010-05-29 15:15:14'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Ray, I think hotlinking prevention is one of the smallest problems in this
    area of webfont protection. It is very easy to achieve this on the server side,
    and it is already widely practiced for images.
  created: '2010-05-29 17:23:53'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Ray, Tim is right. Hotlinking is so 1990's. It is bad for leechers -- who
    knows when the resource will be cut off? It is bad for  the leechees as it sucks
    up their bandwidth. Leechers are easily caught and with a simple htaccess change
    you can shut it off. Nobody tolerates hotlinking as it amounts to stealing.
  created: '2010-05-30 01:01:15'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: I was already thinking about font hotlinking pranks. Imagine what you could
    do with ligatures - changing the leecher's words!
  created: '2010-05-30 09:27:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@typodermic\r\n>Thanks, I didn't know about the same origin rule in Firefox.\r\n\r\n+1
    to what fontsquirrel and Tim Ahrens said on this.\r\nAlso, Firefox defends its
    same-origin restrictions as a matter of security. And it's running code. As long
    as even one major browser restricts in this way, hot-linking is severely hampered.\r\nIf
    I had to bet, I think CORS will make it into the final W3C Fonts spec. At the
    least, it will be a \"browsers may\" kind of wording and FF will stick with its
    current policy, for sure.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-30 13:00:48'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "I've done a hotlinking prank, long time ago, when someone was basically linking
    to all the graphics on fonthead.com. I seem to remember changing everything to
    really hot pink. Not surprisingly, they stopped.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-30 13:17:46'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\n\r\nAll of what you say about the fishmarketing site is true. If
    oversimplified in spots.\r\nWeb design is still largely about Photoshop and making
    things \"pretty\". And the site is very pretty. A digital advertising brochure.
    (At least the home page.)\r\nBut I would ask, \"Does it make smart use of the
    web as a medium?\" What does the site look like on a mobile browser? What does
    it look like on an iPad? Whereas ten years ago it was different browsers that
    drove web designers crazy, now it's different devices and screen sizes.\r\nWe
    could go on and on about this stuff. One good thing is that a lot of CSS3 is about
    getting rid of the need for slapping what amounts to a comp with bits of html
    text positioned on top and calling it a web page.\r\nI just got back from a web
    design conference and one speaker showed a page that used some of the advanced
    CSS3 features of Safari and it was great, really. The text looked as good as anything
    you could cook up in Photoshop and it was just plain HTML text and CSS. And Photoshop
    isn't going to help you with animations. I wasn't aware how advanced Safari had
    become.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-30 13:52:57'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Richard\r\n\r\nYes, the fishmarketing site is unflexible. It is a business
    card.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know the advanced CSS3 features of Safari, because I
    had uninstalled it a while ago. Safari was storing its whole setup program with
    each update and without removing the old setups. And I did not like the rendering
    engine. So I did not use it for surfing, but for testing my webpages only. But
    it never was necessary to correct anything in my CSS for Safari, because Safari
    did make use of it correctly; and therefore I limited my checks to Firefox (my
    favorite browser), IE and Opera.\r\n\r\nI agree with you regarding to the theoretical
    possibilities, that you have with web fonts. But actually I am uncontended with
    the quality of most web fonts in body text sizes. Having a web font for body text,
    would be much more important for me, because with an embedded font you can better
    control line height, length and font size. But why not to embed Georgia, Verdana
    or Trebuchet MS? Actually not the new web fonts are interesting for me, but the
    possibility to embed system fonts. Although it is absurd in my opinion, if a private
    person, that does not sell anything in the web, shall license one of the MS system
    fonts. I assume, it is not allowed to embed a MS system font without a special
    license.\r\n\r\n<cite>The text looked as good as anything you could cook up in
    Photoshop</cite>\r\n\r\nBut probably only, if the text is not fused with an image."
  created: '2010-05-30 14:39:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@arno\r\n>But actually I am uncontented with the quality of most web fonts
    in body text sizes.\r\n\r\nMe too. But let's face it - there's just so many ways
    you can render a lowercase \"a\" at 12px. There are just so many pixels and sub
    pixels you have to work with. It's like designing icons.\r\nI've been scoffed
    at (yes, scoffed!) for suggesting that a lot would be accomplished if the MS Cleartype
    fonts would become ubiquitous either through licensing by Apple or by MSFT magnanimously
    making them available freely through @font-face.\r\nI'm not holding my breath
    waiting for either to happen.\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm confident that the dozen or
    so basic body text fonts that are needed will appear. It's just a matter of time
    now. Before @font-face, you could make them, but how would you distribute them?
    That's what's changed.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-30 15:36:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I've been scoffed at [...] for suggesting that [...] if the MS Cleartype
    fonts would become ubiquitous[...] \r\n\r\nWell, today there are scoff laws in
    effect so I'll tell you the truth. I have heard the pleas for text faces and responded
    as you'll soon see. Meanwhile... the CT collection is a fine group of fonts. But,
    in order for a font to actually work as text on \"the web\" it MUST be Sized and
    Hinted just right. Anyone with the CT collection and Verdana on the same computer
    can prove this for themselves. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-30 19:26:00'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "@Ralf, serverside protection is protection like a condom: not foolproof,
    but better than nothing. Protection is not defined as absolute, unequivocally
    guaranteed security. That doesn't exist on earth, and certainly not on a computer.\r\n\r\n@Arno,
    you're right, it is hackable, but does require effort and know-how, can be made
    more difficult with obscure naming, and it voids hot-linking. What version of
    FireFox are you using? This works for mine (3.6.3) and in Windows, too.\r\n\u2013
    update: I actually hadn't added the bit for no-cache, should be even stronger
    now.\r\n\r\nLegitimate accessibility is actually the best way to fight piracy.
    Great fonts available at an aggressive price point (ref. Steve Jobs) through a
    dead simple interface makes hacking unappealing/difficult/useless. It's a big
    web, go for volume, make your money, piracy won't matter as much. The goal should
    be to make legally licensing fonts for the web easier than hacking a site and
    cobbling together the bits. \r\n\r\nIf the only way someone can use a good font
    online is to use it outside of license, it will be done illegally or another font
    will be used, and foundries will lose that potential money. I'm glad to see so
    many good services attempting to take on the challenge, I hope more foundries
    make their work available, right now it's actually a competitive advantage. "
  created: '2010-06-10 17:38:40'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "The first site (I don\u2019t no many), from which I am impressed with regard
    to the use of a webfont for body text (although this does not mean, that it is
    very legible, but only surprisingly legible considering the background color):
    \"http://blog.fefe.de/?css=ascii.css\""
  created: '2010-06-29 22:03:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: It all makes sense! @ff sole purpose is to bring the Amiga back to life. :-)
  created: '2010-06-30 01:41:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "If I point my browser at a web site, and the web page accesses fonts on that
    web site, my browser won't give me a link to download those fonts, any more than
    it gives me a link to download the .css style sheet for the web page.\r\n\r\nSo
    if @font-face refers to a font I were going to try to steal, I would need to look
    at the source of the web page to find the URL, and use a browser that wouldn't
    say \"hey, this is a font, I don't handle that file type\" to get it.\r\n\r\nThat's
    not casual or accidental piracy already, so you are dealing with people to whom
    it will likely be trivial to pop the font into a font editor and give it a usable
    name again. Hence, I can't really see this suggestion as providing much in the
    way of benefits as an interim solution.\r\n\r\nThe full-bore web font format where
    the browser reads encrypted web fonts keyed to a particular URL... is probably
    the only solution secure enough that fontmakers will find acceptable."
  created: '2010-11-02 23:03:26'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "As I had prognosticated: Your violations of the specs were no hurdle. Meanwhile
    there are many fonts floating around the web, that were ripped from Typekit. With
    corrected name table! And during the correction of the name table some of the
    fonts were probably damaged in a way, that sullies your reputation, because there
    are many people, that just want to test fonts, before they license them. And if
    a font does not work as expected, they don\u2019t know, whether the designer or
    the foundry is responsible for the bugs. Some of them may decide then, that they
    are better going to license another font from another foundry.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    in case of webfonts, that are illegally used in the web, it is much easier to
    to call the owner of the website to account. So, in a few years, when more people
    use webfonts, you can probably earn more money, if you surf a bit in the web and
    send those people, that illegally use your webfonts, a dissuasiveness. From this
    point of view you just could provide your webfonts for test purposes with the
    AIM, that they are illegally used. In other words: It may be, that you earn more
    money, if you do the contraction of that, what you actually are doing."
  created: '2010-11-02 23:04:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"If I point my browser at a web site, and the web page accesses fonts on
    that web site, my browser won't give me a link to download those fonts, any more
    than it gives me a link to download the .css style sheet for the web page.\"\r\n\r\nUrm,
    that depends on your browser and in some cases what plug-ins you have installed.
    As has often been discussed, Safari pretty much does hand you the files on a silver
    platter, including the fonts! For Firefox you can get add-ons to make it do darn
    near anything. Chrome is headed that way as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-11-03 08:11:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I wonder at what point this all becomes old news?\r\n\r\n1) Few web authors
    know how to make @font-face work.\r\n2) By and large, the fonts provided by services
    or licensors don't look good.\r\n\r\nAnd yet there's endless discussion about
    how to keep the fonts that don't look good out of the hands of the people who
    don't know how to use them.\r\n\r\nIt's an interesting phenomenon, really.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-08 14:11:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: There is no discussion such as you suggest going on here. In fact, we are
    about to make more good looking fonts available, and are going to show people
    how to use those too.
  created: '2010-11-08 19:25:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>There is no discussion such as you suggest going on here. In fact, we
    are about to make more good looking fonts available, and are going to show people
    how to use those too.</em>\r\nI don't know who the \"we\" is, but I wish all concerned
    much success.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-08 22:14:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: And to your yorkies as well.
  created: '2010-11-08 23:43:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As I am hoping to apply the @font-face feature to my own web site - using
    an open-source font, so that there shouldn't be a licensing issue involved; my
    intention is to avoid requiring viewers of my web site to install a special font
    for mathematics - I did some web searching.\r\n\r\nI found a nice tutorial at\r\n\r\n[[http://www.miltonbayer.com/font-face/]]\r\n\r\nAnd
    I also see why there is a problem now.\r\n\r\nInternet Explorer supports only
    one font format - .eot - which is locked to a given web site, and thus which allows
    licensing. Fortunately for my purpose, I can download WEFT from Microsoft - and
    I will have to check the license terms of the open-source licenses, just in case
    I run afoul of a religious war.\r\n\r\nFirefox supports .woff which also has some
    sort embedding site lock feature, so IE and Firefox do both have safe solutions
    for licensed fonts. This being like 90%, I would think the problem almost is solved.\r\n\r\nMost
    browsers support .ttf and .otf fonts except for IE, which is good for my application.\r\n\r\nChrome
    used to only support .svg fonts. I knew that .svg was a vector image format, but
    I had never even <em>heard</em> of .svg fonts. There's obfuscation for you! But
    that's been fixed, so one only needs .svg fonts to look good on an iPhone these
    days."
  created: '2010-11-21 20:23:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: However, unlike .eot, I see that .woff doesn't involve encryption. This won't
    quite be good enough, I fear. It avoids open-source browser projects being frozen
    out, true, but some font companies just won't license for that format for that
    reason.
  created: '2010-11-22 02:10:26'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: Not sure I understand your question but EOT does not have to be bound to a
    URL. I has this feature but you don't have to use it.
  created: '2010-11-22 08:10:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Also, WOFF has no features to \u201Clock\u201D a font to use on a given URL.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-11-25 00:21:08'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: "Regarding Mobile Safari on the iPad/iPhone/iPod Touch, the newest version
    in iOS 4.2.1 seems to display .ttf/.otf webfonts (and not just .svg).  At least
    my Egyptian test page now works on my iPad.\r\n\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/thgewecke/webfontdemo.html\r\n\r\nThis
    is useful, since there is no way for the user to add fonts to any of these devices."
  created: '2010-11-25 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Regarding Mobile Safari on the iPad/iPhone/iPod Touch, the newest version
    in iOS 4.2.1 seems to display .ttf/.otf webfonts (and not just .svg). \r\n\r\nHow
    about WOFF? \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2010-11-25 15:58:28'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: ">How about WOFF\r\n\r\nI think not.  Can you suggest a good test page where
    only WOFF is used?"
  created: '2010-11-25 17:28:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Here''s one... http://ie.microsoft.com/testdrive/Graphics/WebFonts/Default.html '
  created: '2010-11-25 17:46:43'
- author:
    name: Tom Gewecke
  body: Thanks, Sii.  WOFF seems definitely not supported yet.
  created: '2010-11-25 18:29:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Thanks for checking. I blame Murdoch :-) he''s a bad influence of Steve. '
  created: '2010-11-25 19:41:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "...iOS supports the most interoperable format now. The trendiest format...not
    so much.\r\n\r\nand sii, iOS is to Murdoch as IE9 is to whom? Who should we blame
    for IE9's ttf support?  "
  created: '2010-11-26 12:13:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Who should we blame for IE9's ttf support?\r\n\r\nIf you are a supporter
    of raw fonts then Apple clearly gets credit for being the first company to support
    the effort. Hakon Lie needs to get some credit for promoting the idea.\r\n\r\nBut
    as the Murdoch blame was a joke, I'm goig to blame Tony Stark for IE9."
  created: '2010-11-26 17:02:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Blame IEronman hu?;) and I'm not so much a supporter of raw fonts as I am
    a supporter of the ttf as payload for print and web. This is a big step in both
    the direction of apple respecting the tt spec again, and getting hopefully on
    the road to Woffing Cross..
  created: '2010-11-27 00:21:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Does anybody have more info about the Tony Stark - Rupert Murdoch - Steve
    Jobs connection? Is it true that Peter Parker's involved, too?
  created: '2010-11-27 14:08:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That would be Spiderman, Richard :-)
  created: '2010-11-27 14:39:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Jeez, Chris, you're right! Does the Justice League Of America know about this?
  created: '2010-11-27 14:47:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Only if they are Web people :-)
  created: '2010-11-27 16:38:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Superman's gonna be pissed.
  created: '2010-11-28 14:36:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: He can browse faster than a speeding bullet but not on the web ;-)
  created: '2010-11-28 17:28:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: http://johndberry.com/blog/2010/12/06/web-type-at-last/
  created: '2010-12-07 19:37:10'
date: '2010-05-14 06:30:41'
title: ' Webfont Obfuscation: An interim solution?'

---
