---
author:
  name: zerimar3
body: "Hello. I've been working on some logo concepts and posted it on Logopond for
  some feedback. However, I'd like a bit more feedback on how things are going. \r\n\r\nI'm
  not a logo designer but I mainly do layouts for final production. I would like to
  feature some of my work online or have a portfolio put together. I would really
  appreciate any feedback that can be offered in critiquing the concepts to build
  some type of direction. \r\n\r\nMy original intention is to keep the logo fun, youthful,
  and able to reach several areas of business rather than look to industrial. The
  name is Baselight Creative. I'm hoping to form a small agency in the near future.
  Thank you for your time, I look forward to reading replies and I'll post any updates/revisions
  here. \r\n\r\nFeel free to view the logo in question at the following link, this
  is my first try so I thank you for your patience and time [[http://logopond.com/forum/viewtopic.php?pid=24165|Baselight
  Creative]]\r\n\r\nThanks! "
comments:
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "The first example won me over (top left). It's simple, no frills, clear,
    effective. The mark you've created does not need any adornment, circles, etc.
    It stands perfectly well on its own. All the other treatments detract from its
    simplicity.\r\n\r\nI'd look at experimenting with the letter spacing amount on
    that example -- it looks a little too open to me.\r\n\r\nI might mention this:
    it looks like a fist holding a light bulb. I really like the effect (someone's
    grabbed an idea and is thrusting it towards me.) If that isn't what you're going
    for, I'd make the spiral effect of the bulb look less like a little cartoon hand.
    :D\r\n\r\nNone of your other examples quite do it for me -- they seem like weaker,
    divergent derivatives of the catchyness, clarity and energy of example 1.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I kind of prefer the typeface you've evolved into on the bottom. The mark, however,
    became stale and mechanical and lacks the character of example 1. I'm not convinced
    that the \"CB\" needs to be tilted...i think thats about all I can think of."
  created: '2010-05-15 10:10:38'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "ophello, thank you for your comments, I highly appreciate your thoughts.
    I didn't look at the bulb in the first set as a fist throwing an idea. That really
    stands out. I was, initially, looking to go for something fun but the more I looked
    at it the more cartoonish it became. The whole bulb started out with trying to
    combine the letters B,L, and C together. \r\n\r\nI think my sketches are a lot
    sharper but due to my limitations in Illustrator came out a bit more cartoonish.
    I think I'll take some time to mold it more and use the typeface from the bottom
    logo. You're right, I don't think the CB needs to be tilted. I'll put up a revision
    soon. Thank you again for your time and suggestions. "
  created: '2010-05-15 18:57:53'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "ophello, I've put them side and having taken your suggestions. Thoughts?
    Thank you.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base-7_3851.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-15 20:41:11'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "The question really comes down to this: is Baselight Creative a fun, energetic
    powerhouse or a serious, sophisticated, engineering firm?\r\n\r\nThese two examples
    convey very different emotions.\r\n\r\nI understand the intellectual need you
    feel to cleverly combine the CB and L into one single form (I don't see the \"L\"
    yet). But you also have to ask if that kind of communication is appropriate for
    your client. Aside from that, the letter monogram says \"CB\" which is, of course,
    out of order...though that may not matter.\r\n\r\nI really know nothing about
    this company so take my comments lightly -- it's really your call. I'm sure the
    client will feel which of these directions is best.\r\n\r\nOverall, I'd say you've
    converged towards two very strong solutions. I have nothing more to add with regard
    to your typeface choice -- it works for me.\r\n\r\nI forgot to mention: your abstract
    treatment (the dot rays in blue and yellow) caught my eye but it didn't stand
    out enough. Don't discard that one. I think a more abstract concept might work.
    You have two very literal translations of \"baselight\" but a third more abstract
    idea may be the answer. I'd play with that one as well.\r\n\r\nI was just thinking...the
    example on the right only shows us the screw part of the bulb. what if it has
    some more fire and energy that the left one had?"
  created: '2010-05-15 21:08:18'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "Thank you for your comments once again. This is a personal project for a
    business venture I'm looking to go in. As I stated in my first post, I don't do
    logo designs, primarily layouts and some work in photoshop for photos. I layout
    brochures, catalogs and such but primarily work in brand packaging. Most work
    is turned over to me just to lay it. \r\n\r\nHowever, I've wanted to post some
    of my work online and possibly do a bit of freelancing, therefore I felt a logo
    would be best for an online portfolio and a mark for trade shows. \r\n\r\nThe
    first questions you've asked are ones I've asked myself. I would like to keep
    it youthful, fun, and energetic with some longevity. I would like to be able to
    have a logo that adapts to say, the auto industry as well as the food industry,
    education, and so on. A very broad logo. \r\n\r\nWhen I think of a light bulb
    or fixture I do not want people to think we're a lighting or electrical company.
    This is why I threw in the logo with the dot rays (in blue and yellow). I wanted
    to go with a more abstract feel and something that did not relate to the word
    \"baselight\" but kept it very open. \r\n\r\nI would like to keep working on the
    dot ray logo and haven't discarded it because it is abstract but may need a different
    treatment. Regarding the \"L\" you don't see, it's in the more cartoonish logo
    on the screw part. It's a small \"L\" connected to the \"B\" without the spine.
    \r\n\r\nYou are right in that the logo to the right shows a CB backwards but I
    don't mind it too much. Let me know of any other suggestions you may have regarding
    the dot ray logo. I'm interested in hearing them. Right now I'd like to just get
    as much feedback as possible from as many people, since this is my first shot
    at a logo design. \r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2010-05-15 22:03:03'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I don't think that either of these examples could possibly be confused for
    a lightbulb company for two major reasons that I can think of:\r\n\r\n1. i don't
    think any company would sell only lightbulbs\r\n2. these examples are too playful
    and have the word \"creative\" in them, which makes it hard to reason that they're
    strictly manufacturing facilities.\r\n\r\nThe\"CBL\" you say are incorporated
    into the lightbulb on the left weren't apparent to me until you pointed it out.
    I don't personally feel that we *have* to see letters in a mark. The title below
    it spells it out for us just fine.\r\n\r\nThe light ray treatment needs more punch.
    It feels thin and spread out."
  created: '2010-05-15 22:09:02'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "ophello, I just wanted to add the logo you were referring to earlier. Thanks.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base-8_4768.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-15 22:14:08'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "This is a totally gimmicky idea...but try it anyway:\r\n\r\nlet the dot on
    the 'i' in 'Baselight' become the source of light. "
  created: '2010-05-15 22:23:14'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "Here's the whole set that I have thus far, posted for comparison. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base-9_5724.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-15 22:25:49'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: Do you mean combine the ray of dots to the dot in the "i"?
  created: '2010-05-15 22:26:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Using a lightbulb for a 'creative' company just isn't very creative. It's
    cliche. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-15 22:51:40'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "aluminum: this was my feeling as well but it's all about execution.\r\n\r\nIf
    \"light\" is an important element, however, you can convey it in many ways."
  created: '2010-05-15 23:23:00'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "aluminum, you're probably right. Thanks for your comment. Any suggestions?
    \r\n\r\nophello, light is an important element to be conveyed in many different
    ways. I've thought of several but have had a hard time trying to convey \"light\"
    in a very abstract form other than something that will again look cliche as aluminum
    suggests. "
  created: '2010-05-15 23:33:02'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: Rays convey light, too.
  created: '2010-05-15 23:52:29'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "Here's another sample I worked on over this weekend. Your thoughts on this
    are highly appreciated. Thank you. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base-12_3658.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-17 06:21:00'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "I like the idea of a light source spitting out magic.\r\n\r\nstars are a
    universal symbol: everyone knows what a star is. I recommend avoiding that symbol
    because it's terribly predictable. Unless you push the design, you won't surprise
    your audience. And the placement of the stars in your design is very condensed,
    clustered, orderly. those concepts are contrary to what you've talked about.\r\n\r\nthe
    idea of light breaking through the surface is a good concept. Your experiments
    with the four light rays was promising and didnt require a recognizable symbol:
    they were spots radiating outward.\r\n\r\nI might also mention: there's a universal
    rule in typography (somewhat unspoken, but steadfast) that states: never letterspace
    lowercase letters.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;\r\nI&nbsp;&nbsp;t&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;d&nbsp;&nbsp;o&nbsp;&nbsp;e&nbsp;&nbsp;s&nbsp;&nbsp;n&nbsp;&nbsp;'&nbsp;&nbsp;t&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;f&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;l&nbsp;&nbsp;o&nbsp;&nbsp;w...it's
    really a legibility issue. If you want to space out your letters, always go with
    an uppercase. Try that and post the results!"
  created: '2010-05-17 08:28:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I might also mention: there's a universal rule in typography (somewhat
    unspoken, but steadfast) that states: never letterspace lowercase letters.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    rule is primary valid for distinction in body text. And it is always topped by
    the following rule: Good is, what works. And sometimes letterspaced lowercase
    letters look fine. But not here.\r\n\r\n@ zerimar3\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t like the
    stars, especially not, that you have turned the three stars on the top.\r\n\r\nA
    candle is one of the most basic illuminants. But I would not make a candle of
    the i.\r\n\r\nThe problem with those names like baselight is, that they provoke
    making a matching illustration. While it can be senseful to use a matching illustration
    for a lamps shop, it is a risk to use such an illustration for an advertising
    agency, because the word already is the metaphor. Baselight as a name for an agency
    is a bit plumb or uncool in my opinion, at least, if you don\u2019t want to open
    a copy shop.\r\n\r\nIn the two-line-examples from your second image you need edge
    compensation. The line \"CREATIVE\" is too long, because of the capital T with
    its white space in \"BASELIGHT\"."
  created: '2010-05-17 09:40:26'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "ophello, <em>the idea of light breaking through the surface is a good concept.
    Your experiments with the four light rays was promising and didnt require a recognizable
    symbol: they were spots radiating outward.</em>\r\n\r\nI appreciate your thoughts
    on this. My intention was to stay away from any recognizable symbol on that one
    as Arno said, <i>the word is already a metaphor.</i>\r\n\r\nHowever, in trying
    to break the direction of the previous concept, with the CB I wanted something
    totally different. The stars aren't anything unique; you're right. I was, however,
    trying to form a capital \"B\" with the stars. A frail attempt, but it helped
    break my feel for the direction and adopt a new direction. \r\n\r\nArno, thank
    you for your comments. I think this sums it up best: <em>The problem with those
    names like baselight is, that they provoke making a matching illustration. While
    it can be senseful to use a matching illustration for a lamps shop, it is a risk
    to use such an illustration for an advertising agency, because the word already
    is the metaphor.</em>\r\n\r\nThis has really helped me to think about how \"baselight\"
    should be interpreted. I have many more paper sketches that may or may not work,
    too many to post here. I'm still trying to nail it down. \r\n\r\nSince this hasn't
    been broadcast completely, I was also thinking about discarding the name as well.
    You said it is plumb and uncool, and I agree to some point. However, considering
    the target audience, it has potential to function. I originally was going for
    just \"bright creative\" but noticed that it was taken already. \r\n\r\nI also
    appreciate both the explanation and clarification for the universal rule on lower
    case spacing of letters. Thank you. Are there any other suggestions, recommendations,
    or thoughts you could share? I really appreciate the time and thought put into
    the comments. "
  created: '2010-05-18 00:53:53'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "zerimar - for a self-proclaimed \"non-designer\" you have many of the successful
    traits of a good designer. Namely: willingness to listen, openness to change.
    I think you've got a good shot at doing what it is you plan to do.\r\n\r\nWith
    respect to your latest trials...keep making those sketches and don't be afraid
    to share them, however \"unfinished\" they may seem. The process of making a successful
    logo is probably one of the most difficult ventures a designer can undertake.
    It demands all of one's skills, patience and wisdom.\r\n\r\nNo design is \"good\"
    without a solid concept. It doesn't matter how loose your ideas may seem - get
    them out in the open and share them."
  created: '2010-05-19 08:49:46'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "My final thought on this: if you keep the name \"baselight,\" I feel that
    there needs to be a component of energy racing outwards from a common point. There
    are so many interesting and varying ways to show that. You have your work cut
    out for you.\r\n\r\nIt's been interesting seeing the evolution from \"logo idea\"
    into \"name science.\" It is obvious that the name and the mark depend on each
    other. If one changes, the other follows suit."
  created: '2010-05-19 08:54:32'
- author:
    name: Ratbaggy
    picture: 111633
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/justsayin_4609.jpg]\r\n\r\njust throwing
    stuff in the mix, con't really have the time to discuss stuff at length at the
    moment.\r\n\r\nI'm watching and interested in your progress though!\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 10:14:41'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: Rat, that's an interesting concept. Light shining through.
  created: '2010-05-19 19:24:08'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "My apologies for no replying sooner, I came to check on this thread. I'm
    not sure how to set my options to be notified via email immediately following
    a post. \r\n\r\nophello, thank you very much for your kind comments. They are
    very encouraging and refreshing. I've been told I have an eye for design. I'm
    not sure that I do but I know what I like when I see it and dissect it's form/shape.
    I appreciate the many facets of art form but went into literature during my educational
    career. \r\n\r\nI know I have my work cut out for me. I've started from scratch
    over the week.  I have many pencil sketches but nothing coming to fruition just
    yet. I do agree that there must be a common point with light/energy racing out
    of it. However, I've also considered \"light\" as in light-weight. I've thought
    of air, foam, bubbles, just things that are weightless regarding light, only to
    pull away from light as in source of, such as bulb, spark, fire, etc. \r\n\r\nRatbaggy,
    thanks for your concept and effort in sharing your thought visually. That hadn't
    crossed my mind as I'm looking for a solid form of a type, but this has opened
    up an area to explore. Again, light through darkness is great; I'm going to explore
    it, yet I'm also thinking in terms of weight as much as contrast. "
  created: '2010-05-22 04:27:26'
- author:
    name: gillo
    picture: 113901
  body: The CB here is supposed to represent the screw part of a bulb, right? It took
    me a while to get that. My first impression was that it resembled a compact fluorescent
    bulb, which plays on the lightbulb/idea theme but, imho (and I have no experience
    with logo design or branding or what kind of cliches abound these days in those
    fields), is not quite as predictable and perhaps suggests that the ideas represented
    are very up-to-date or forward thinking.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/base-7_3851_4839.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/cfl_5305.jpg]
  created: '2010-05-22 17:03:41'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>My first impression was that it resembled a compact fluorescent bulb</cite>\r\n\r\nMine
    too."
  created: '2010-05-22 17:26:09'
- author:
    name: zerimar3
  body: "gillo, thanks for your comments. You're right, it is the base of the bulb,
    the screw part. I can see how it would resemble a compact fluorescent bulb as
    well. However, in my initial post way at the top in the first picture, you'll
    see the first concept I had. I was trying to combine the letters B,L,C into the
    concept which looked a bit cartoonish. Now with this concept, I get a feeling
    that it might be too industrial. It's not bad, but it's not what my initial intention
    was. \r\n\r\nI was aiming for something fun, clean and simply. Youthful and without
    trying to display the words \"base\" and \"light\" in the logo mark.  \r\n\r\nArno
    made a good point earlier in the post by saying, <em>\"The problem with those
    names like baselight is, that they provoke making a matching illustration. While
    it can be senseful to use a matching illustration for a lamps shop, it is a risk
    to use such an illustration for an advertising agency, because the word already
    is the metaphor.</em>\r\n\r\nI think it has plenty of truth when working with
    names like these. However, ophello has made some dynamic points as well which
    are to be considered regarding the name. \r\n\r\nI'm thinking \"base\" as in the
    base of a bulb, idea, or even a base in baseball or a foundation of a house or
    structure. I'm also thinking of \"light\" as in shining, bright, but also in terms
    of weight. \r\n\r\nI'm sketching up a few more comps as I feel that, to some degree,
    I've gotten to the final stages a bit too soon without sketching more first. Nonetheless,
    thank you for your thoughts, I look forward to more of them. \r\n\r\nriccard0,
    thanks for chiming in. Do you have any further thoughts regarding the logo mark
    or process? I'm open to hearing any input you might have. \r\n\r\nThanks! "
  created: '2010-05-23 06:31:18'
date: '2010-05-14 22:24:22'
title: 'Logo Feedback: Looking for open critique.'

---
