---
author:
  name: Chris Keegan
  picture: 110432
body: Ok, maybe a strange question here, but I've got some old specimen books, lettering
  books, etc. and I love looking through these things, but the moldy "odor" is really
  almost unbearable. Does anybody have any tips on how to safely remove treat this?
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I feel your pain: I had a copy of <em>The Book of Oswald Cooper</em> that
    curled my nose hairs anytime I removed it from solitary confinement, until I applied
    \"the cure.\"\r\n\r\nBook preservation pros recommend zeolite: place the offending
    article in a heavy-duty zip-lock bag with a couple tablespoons of the stuff, and
    change it out every three months or so. Less expensive and more readily available:
    kitty litter. Neither is a complete cure, but both definitely reduce the pungency."
  created: '2010-05-18 16:18:39'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I recently called my public library for advice on this very subject. They
    told me that the best advice could be found at book restorer sites. Do a Google
    for \"book restoration mold\" or \"book restoration odor\" and you'll find articles
    such as these: \r\n\r\nHow to remove mold:\r\nhttp://www.bookthink.com/0059/59rep.htm\r\n\r\nHow
    to remove odors:\r\nhttp://www.bookthink.com/0069/69alt.htm\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-18 16:19:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Nick/James, thanks for the info guys, I'll definitely look into this!
  created: '2010-05-18 16:37:32'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: A scanner
  created: '2010-05-18 17:31:02'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Separately but related, I have started assembling the seeds of an idea for
    an online type specimen book and ephemera library via ebook or printed on-demand.
    It seems regrettable that all these great type books are hoarded up and cannot
    be shared, also they have no path to the future if they end up as estate sale
    winnings . . .\r\n\r\nThe origin of this thought was because of working with the
    Filmotype and Lettering Inc libraries with tons of amazing specimen books from
    the 1930s through 1960s many of which aren't likely to be reprinted again and
    I cringe flipping through the pages as they are fragile and I don't want to damage
    them further while being able to enjoy reading them . . .\r\n\r\nGranted, I would
    admit copyright concern is a major priority but in most cases, many of the original
    companies and publishers no longer exist . . .\r\n\r\nAny thoughts?\r\nStuart
    :D"
  created: '2010-05-18 17:49:40'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "An online specimen library is definitely something we\u2019re all going to
    need to work on. Between the growing numbers of type designers and the popularity
    of specimens with non-type designers (including people who should be hanged for
    cutting the books up to sell as prints!) these books are in very short supply.
    And the quality of Google Books scans is often abominable, making it useless for
    anything small. Maybe we should all get interns to scan everything and start uploading
    to Flickr. "
  created: '2010-05-18 18:00:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Related (and odourless): <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/55294\">DVDs
    with scanned old typeface catalogs and scanned old books about foundry type (Bleisatzschriften)</a>\r\nDirect
    shop link: <a href=\"http://shop.spatium-magazin.de/shop/USER_ARTIKEL_HANDLING_AUFRUF.php?darstellen=1&Kategorie_ID=42&kat_last=42&kat_aktiv=42\">Specimen
    Scans on DVDs @ Spatium</a>"
  created: '2010-05-18 18:43:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Has anyone out there purchased one of those German DVD sets? I\u2019m interested
    but I want to know a little more about the quality and if they\u2019re individual
    images (good) or PDFs (very bad)."
  created: '2010-05-18 19:00:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'There''s also [[http://www.octavo.com/index.html|Octavo]] for high-res digital
    editions. '
  created: '2010-05-18 19:10:20'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Granted, I would admit copyright concern is a major \r\n> priority but
    in most cases, many of the original companies \r\n> and publishers no longer exist
    . . .\r\n\r\nBut you have to be careful, because long after a company closes its
    doors it may still exist as a legal entity with an owner somewhere."
  created: '2010-05-18 19:12:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I've got volumes one and two of the German DVDs. Each DVD contains a collection
    of specimen books organized by country then by foundry. Within that structure,
    each specimen (books, pamphlets, cards, etc.) is a PDF made up from 150dpi scans
    (best guess). \r\n\r\nI think they are a wonderful survey of what was available
    in the world of metal type, good enough to get an idea what typefaces look like
    (for identification purposes for instance), and perhaps for judging whether or
    not you want to get hold of a certain physical specimen or not, or whether it's
    worth the asking price. I don't think the quality is good enough for doing tight
    digital revivals, but good enough to inspire and inform new faces."
  created: '2010-05-18 20:32:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Russell: the 1923 ATF specimen is around 1,100 pages. That's a lot of scanning.\r\n\r\nI
    think an online repository or even p.o.d. site for these would be a fantastic
    resource. The logisitics of it though - I have no idea. It's something that I'm
    sure many graphic designers as well as type designers would love to have access
    to.\r\n\r\nMaybe even an informal flickr group would be great, as James mentioned.
    I've seen some stuff posted, but nothing too exhaustive. The craftsmanship and
    beauty of some of the pages is really impressive, and some of the pages are works
    of art."
  created: '2010-05-18 20:40:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>the 1923 ATF specimen is around 1,100 pages. That's a lot of scanning.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    1912 ATF book is even larger. It's so heavy that my scanner tends to drag under
    the weight when I scan from the middle of the book.\r\n\r\nBTW, I also have the
    first two volumes from Spatium: great stuff. Also available on eBay: a scanned
    CD of Barnhart Brothers & Spindler's Catalog #25, for $16.95 or so. Since I already
    have three copies of the book, I haven't checked out the CD..."
  created: '2010-05-18 20:52:41'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "Barnhart Brothers & Spindler's Catalog #9 for free:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.archive.org/details/bookoftypespecim00barnrich\r\n\r\nFantastic
    to flip through."
  created: '2010-05-18 21:22:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the 1923 ATF specimen is around 1,100 pages\r\n\r\nMy first real design
    job was a summer internship at a corporation. Each afternoon we'd send our marked-up
    copy to the typesetter, and the next morning we'd receive our type galleys.\r\n\r\nOne
    morning the typesetter's delivery guy walked in and dropped an enormous envelope
    on my desk with a thud. \"Here's your type.\" The package must have weighed 5
    pounds. I stared at it in horror. Had I made some horrendous mistake when spec'ing
    type? Was I going to get fired?\r\n\r\nWith trembling hands I opened the package.
    My type was in there all right, but so was something I didn't expect -- the typesetter's
    massive new specimen book. Wheh."
  created: '2010-05-18 21:42:58'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Thanks for the thoughtful input gang! I spoke with a tech buddy of mine and
    this isn't as difficult to do as we may think . . .\r\n\r\nThe problems are the
    problems . . .\r\n\r\nFlickr only allows a max resolution and knowing what I know
    about this group, I don't think any of us would be satisfied without seeing the
    grains of the paper upon full zoom. OpenLibrary nor Flickr gave me this piece
    of mind . . .\r\n\r\nThe flip side of it is that nobody can print above 300 dpi,
    so at some point you hit diminishing returns on scans created for screen vs scans
    created for print . . . And as James mentioned, Google Books just ain't cuttin'
    it . . .\r\n\r\nI guess the solution is something much closer to an OpenLibrary
    but even that isn't close enough . . .\r\n\r\nI think there are multiple things
    that need to be solved:\r\n\r\n* The POD problem since most of them only deal
    with fixed sizes and who can attest to quality?\r\n\r\n* A host for 4-6mb images
    PER page at minimum\r\n\r\n* An online reader\r\n\r\nI presume perhaps naively
    that any contributors will do their own scanning and uploading and their own due
    diligence on legal issues pertaining to copyright . . .\r\n\r\nAny thoughts on
    how to solve the rest of it?\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2010-05-19 02:47:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<em>The POD problem since most of them only deal with fixed sizes and who
    can attest to quality?</em>\r\n\r\nPOD could do some B&W specimens really well,
    but only if someone devoted a great deal of time to cleaning up all the images.
    I\u2019m not a big fan.\r\n\r\n<em>A host for 4-6mb images PER page at minimum</em>\r\n\r\nEek.
    We might need to just have a central repository for ordering DVDs.\r\n\r\n<em>An
    online reader</em>\r\n\r\nI think we would be better off just zipping everything
    up as CBZ files for use with comic-reading software. It\u2019s much faster than
    trying to view big images through browsers or PDF readers.\r\n\r\n<cite>I presume
    perhaps naively that any contributors will do their own scanning and uploading
    and their own due diligence on legal issues pertaining to copyright . . .</cite>\r\n\r\nWe
    could always just start with the public domain stuff and move forward from there.
    And we might also find that some of the people who have bought up the rights to
    old type libraries own the rights to the specimen books.\r\n\r\nIt might be worthwhile
    to try finding a private library where we could set up a camera stand and a server
    and work on something like this. Maybe the TDC library would be good given it\u2019s
    proximity to some pretty exceptional collections of type specimens and other rare
    book.s"
  created: '2010-05-19 04:06:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I wonder if an academic library might have interest in this. Maybe RIT?\r\n(They
    could set up something like Iowa has done with the [[http://sdrc.lib.uiowa.edu/dada/collection.html|Digital
    Dada Archive]]...) "
  created: '2010-05-19 05:14:30'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Actually, McGill always seems to show up with top search results whenever
    I look up a specimen book . . .\r\n\r\n@ James - Is there a CBZ reader for those
    luddites among us who don't have an iPad like me?\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-05-19 14:48:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "There are lots of CBZ reader. A CBZ file is just a zip file of sequentially
    numbered image files, so they\u2019re a pretty simple programming projects. I
    find it better than PDF readers for dealing with images because PDF software,
    particularly Acrobat, is text-oriented and usually has a number of problems related
    to viewing and creating a document out of a lot of images."
  created: '2010-05-19 15:12:34'
- author:
    name: BarbHauser
    picture: 113520
  body: "Regarding Stuart's comment, \"I cringe flipping through the pages as they
    are fragile and I don't want to damage them further while being able to enjoy
    reading them . . . ,\" there's a <a href=\"http://www.kirtas.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=7&Itemid=40\">machine</a>
    for that. \r\n\r\nBarbara"
  created: '2010-05-19 18:53:23'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Honestly Barb, these folks have EXACTLY what we would want including an arrangement
    with McGill . . . THANKS!\r\n\r\nI have written them to determine how we may take
    advantage of their services as well . . .\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2010-05-19 19:33:16'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I cringe flipping through the pages as they are fragile and I don't want
    to damage them further while being able to enjoy reading them</em>\r\n\r\nI had
    the same problem with a copy of BB&S Catalog #9: small chips of paper moulted
    from the edges upon perusal. I chose simply to sever the spine with a guillotine
    paper cutter, and box the results...perhaps not a purist approach, but a lot neater
    in the end."
  created: '2010-05-19 20:01:13'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Chris K, <cite>Russell: the 1923 ATF specimen is around 1,100 pages. That's
    a lot of scanning.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it is. It will take a few hours. On my (not
    very fast) scanner, maybe about a day to a day and a half of actual scanning.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 20:29:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Eventually, some form of microscopic, stereoscopic scanning will be invented.\r\nThe
    reading device (flexible, of course) will have high-res \"pixel pistons\" that
    mimic the effect of intaglio and letterpress printing.\r\nAt any rate, it is never
    a good idea to trash the original, as <a href=\"http://www.amazon.ca/Double-Fold-Libraries-Assault-Paper/dp/product-description/0375726217\">Nicholson
    Baker</a> has pointed out with regards to the microfiche catastrophe.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 20:43:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'On a related note, it would be incredible if we could figure out how to connect
    Google with a library that has the complete run of <em>The Inland Printer</em>.
    I am convinced that <em>The Inland Printer</em> is a key that would unlock a lot
    of doorways to understanding nineteenth and early twentieth century type design
    if it were scanned, OCRed, and indexed by Google books. '
  created: '2010-05-19 20:56:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, if I remember rightly\u2014from when TypeCon was in Boston\u2014the
    [[http://www.museumofprinting.org/|Museum of Printing]] in Andover Mass has a
    pretty complete library of the Inland Printer. "
  created: '2010-05-19 21:32:49'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "I shot off an e-mail to the folks at Kirtas who informed me they would be
    interested and do have the ability to perform this service for us . . . They are
    interested in the potential number of items we'd have to send in to their Service
    Bureau to digitize, likely this would all be done on their equipment which is
    suited to this use . . .\r\n\r\nI for one will be happy to and have always planned
    on making the Filmotype and Lettering Inc materials available in this manner .
    . . I honestly don't care to make a profit on this but rather make sure it's available
    to everybody . . . I'm OK if Kirtas wants to make a buck though . . .\r\n\r\nStuart\r\n\r\nPS:
    Oddly enough they also would like to know where each book owner would be sending
    materials in from as they have a sales force that needs to know where to assign
    the relationships. . ."
  created: '2010-05-20 00:32:53'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "My son had a job at his university library for a while. The management's
    view of scanning books was that it was the answer to all their storage problems.
    (With permission) he'd brought home a number of old, leather-bound, musty smelling
    books and maps that, having been scanned, would otherwise have ended up in the
    recycling bin. \r\n\r\nMy suggestion to scan, was not to replace a real book with
    a digital one, but to spare Chris' lungs from  mould spores and such, and  the
    book from constant handling.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-20 00:42:44'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: 'I would suggest reading: Double Fold, Libraries and the Assault on Paper
    by Nicholson Baker. A book detailing what we have lost due to microfilming and
    other recording processes for books. Sometimes ink on paper is the best - and
    a scan does not impart all of the information on paper in the same way as the
    real object can. '
  created: '2010-05-20 13:18:48'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "In Germany, since some weeks we are working on a project to upload around
    1,600 so called \"Typokartei\" DIN A5 (800 of it, two-sided). All scans are done
    already (300 dpi), each scan has around 180 KB. I guess this is close to maximum
    of what might be alright for the users of the website later on.\r\n\r\nThe cards
    show german lead letters from all german foundries, developed between 1910 and
    1980 and in general they show all the same informations about the font - see pic
    below. We'll edit important informations about font name, foundry, year of first
    production, artist, DIN 16518 group/subgroup and more in a XML or ITCP format.\r\n\r\nYes,
    its a lot of work. Right now I start we renaming the pics, so font name is file
    name. fontware, a norwegian company out of prepress, specialists on archives and
    handling of large number of pictures, sponsored the project by giving us server
    and software.\r\n\r\nI hope anywhere in three months or so, a visitor will have
    the chance to call a font on www.bleisetzer.de or he can select e.g. all fonts,
    first produced between 1920 and 1933. Or all fonts of Rudolf Koch or whatever.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Neues
    Bild_6030.JPG]"
  created: '2010-05-20 19:07:16'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Georg,\r\nthis is great news! Thank you.\r\n\r\nHowever, I wonder why you
    chose to save the scans as JPGs? The artefacts are horrible.\r\n\r\nI disagree
    with this being the optimal quality, or the maximum acceptable file size. \r\nToday,
    180 kb are not really a lot; for comparison, the homepage of SpOn often is ten
    times as \u2018heavy\u2019, with all its graphics etc. \r\n\r\nFlorian"
  created: '2010-05-20 19:28:16'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, Florian, I for myself need font alphabets to classify unknown lead
    letter fonts. Others might be interested to see text samples to get an idea about
    this \"font in action\".\r\n\r\nBut what, please, is a higher resolution good
    for?\r\n\r\nYes, I know what for. But just think about it. Would it not include
    a high risc of copyright probs? With a 300 dpi scan, its not senseful to try to
    digitize the scans. By the way: The printed quality of most of the old specimen
    (including the Typokartei one) is not as good as some of you may think. The lead
    letter CDs someone asked for, offers PDF files, where the pics were included before.
    So a question for quality depends on what you want to do with it? Both - our project
    scans and the ones from Hans Reichardts CDs are very nice tools for searching
    and studying fonts. But I do not see a must to offer it in a quality, able to
    produce reproductions. For my opinion.\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-20 20:11:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "From my perspective as a type designer and student of typography, no resolution
    can be too fine. I want to see every fibre of paper, because it is the effect
    of inked letter shapes on metal as it is pressed into paper that concerns me,
    and I want to see it exactly the way the type founders of the day saw it, because
    it is this degree of detail upon which they based the subtleties of their designs.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nResolution
    is not the only issue.\r\nWhat should be the scanner's setting?\r\nFor different
    subject matter, contrast and brightness may be varied to optimize the image.\r\nThen
    there is the somewhat postmodern question of whether a scan should represent the
    artefact as it is now, or be adjusted (i.e. \"improved\") to represent its original
    condition.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI have a nice facsimile copy of 200-year-old Bruce
    Foundry book, reproduced so accurately they even went to the trouble of printing
    the foxing in a special colour!\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-21 03:05:42'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "I want to add some comments on this.\r\nI do believe that what is being spoken
    here is a digital library of Old Specimen Books.\r\nThere are lots of definition
    (and attempts) of what a digital library is.\r\nFor the Digital Library Federation:\r\n\r\n\"Digital
    libraries are organizations that provide the resources, including the specialized
    staff, to select, structure, offer intellectual access to, interpret, distribute,
    preserve the integrity of, and ensure the persistence over time of collections
    of digital works so that they are readily and economically available for use by
    a defined community or set of communities.\"\r\n\r\nAs we can agree, a digital
    library includes several layers.\r\nThe main layers are:\r\n-providing the resources\r\n-Organize
    them\r\n-Distribute them\r\n-Preserve the integrity of them\r\n-Ensure the persistence
    over time of collections of digital works \r\n\r\nWhen I study this issues some
    years ago, we came up with a solution in using a Open-source software that was
    built in order to guaranty this all issues as they are of main concern when you
    developed a digital library. There are lots of software out there but this solution
    was fine for us: [[http://www.fedora-commons.org/about/examples|FEDORA ]] and
    [[http://fez.library.uq.edu.au/about/|FEZ ]] an interface for it.\r\nThese software
    working together can be what is need here. Lots of different users working together
    with the same application with several levels of permission (from user to administrator
    of collection responsible for checking who can add documents and validating them).\r\n\r\nThis
    software address some issues referred here by Nick Shinn: \"as a type designer
    and student of typography, no resolution can be too fine\" and \"Then there is
    the somewhat post-modern question of whether a scan should represent the artefact
    as it is now, or be adjusted (i.e. \"improved\") to represent its original condition\".
    I do agree with Nick \"no resolution can be too fine and I want to see every fibre
    of paper, because it is the effect of inked letter shapes on metal as it is pressed
    into paper that concerns me\". The software allows us to create this High-Res
    digitalisations and store them and develop all kind of disseminators(like a low-Res
    JPG or grayscale doc- everything you want).\r\n\r\nOf course that the implementation
    of these software are not easy (not that difficult either- I'm no programmer and
    manage to install it) and a dedicated server. But in my opinion if the purpose
    here is to develop a real usable archive/digital library these matters have to
    be addressed.\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio Fonseca\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-22 18:46:12'
- author:
    name: afonseca1974
    picture: 113276
  body: "Does anyone here knows if this matter (build of type specimen book and ephemera
    library) had any developments?\r\nI would like to contact Stuart Sandler to know
    if he made any development on this, but cant find any email...\r\n\r\nAnt\xF3nio"
  created: '2011-01-19 01:29:24'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hi Ant\xF3nio,\r\n\r\nI continue to study this matter deeply but haven't
    made much progress I'm afraid . . .\r\n\r\nThere are it seems two concerns . .
    .\r\n\r\n1) Scanning/Offering the materials\r\n\r\n2) Institutionalizing the materials\r\n\r\nInsofar
    as issue one goes, I have some e-mails out to high end book scanning resources
    that won't destroy the book in the process of digitizing them . . . I will advise
    once I have heard some results . . .\r\n\r\nAs far as issue two goes, unless the
    originals are donated to an institution or provided to a large enough source whereby
    they can be hosted infinitely there is a fear that they will not survive archival
    storage if they are maintained at only one source . . .\r\n\r\nI'm likely getting
    ahead of myself, but I think insofar as a digital copy goes, it can and should
    be scanned and shared and even a Print-on-demand solution would be desirable .
    . .\r\n\r\nAs far as the actual physical materials go, they should likely eventually
    end up in the hands of a library that can archive and store them for future generations
    rather end up at an estate sale marked for 5 cents each . . .\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2011-02-18 17:23:58'
- author:
    name: gibarian
  body: "You could have the books re-bound, especially if they're falling apart as
    you said (I am a hobbyest binder, which is why I found this discussion). There
    are plenty of hand binders in every city. It doesn't really take an institution.
    One nice thing is when a book is completely disassembled it is much easier to
    scan. The only thing that really can't be fixed is very brittle paper. I'm always
    surprised how many people never consider rebinding books when they see what is
    actually just superficial damage. Sometimes it's just the cover that's damaged
    but the book doesn't even need to be re-sewn. If the edges look dingy, sometimes
    you can just trim the margins in a guillotine and the book looks almost new.\r\n\r\nAnother
    fun thing about rebinding is you can personalize the books imprinted with your
    initials or choose or color or so it matches your apartment. I've often taken
    a series of different books of similar sizes and made them look like a set. \r\n\r\nTJ"
  created: '2011-10-22 22:35:06'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: By the way, I have a copy of Frank H. Atkinson Sign Painting (Up To Now),
    1915, that came from a friend's grandpa's attic. It's in very poor condition,
    but it seems worth mentioning to anyone who might be interested in it, as otherwise
    it will just continue to decay in my apartment and probably have to be dropped
    in the trash at some point.
  created: '2011-10-23 13:11:38'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@cerulean\r\n\r\nThat Atkinson book is a wonderful resource, which is probably
    why most of the copies available are in such poor shape: they got used extensively
    by the signpainters of an earlier era."
  created: '2011-10-23 17:10:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Cerulean, my book buying budget is maxed out right now, but if you want to
    send it my way I will be happy to photograph/scan (whatever works best for the
    format) the book and post it to Flickr.
  created: '2011-10-23 19:38:52'
- author:
    name: wisedocks
    picture: 123652
  body: "I hate to be a spammer lol but I have an old type font book from 1885 on
    my site for sale at [[http://www.wisedocks.com/shop/61-the-sixteenth-specimen-book-from-the-cincinnati-type-foundry.html]]
    \r\nI think it would be better off in someones hands that could appreciate it
    and put it to work."
  created: '2011-10-24 07:52:14'
- author:
    name: Justin_Ch
  body: "Dover have recently reprinted that Atkinson book in a combined volume with
    Charles Strong's lettering book from the same era.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.doverbooks.co.uk/pp/New_Dover_Titles/Vintage_Commercial_Art_and_Design.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-24 19:42:34'
date: '2010-05-18 14:55:47'
title: Old Specimen Books - Removing Mildew/Mold Smell

---
