---
author:
  name: Tim Ahrens
  picture: 109692
body: http://www.storm-consultancy.com/blog/design/newsworthy-bits/google-getting-into-the-web-fonts-game/
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Oh great, now when I go to web sites I\u2019ll have to wait for the slow
    Google Analytics servers <em>and</em> the slow Google fonts servers. "
  created: '2010-05-19 13:55:32'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Rumors were true then.
  created: '2010-05-19 14:07:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Umm...I'm not positive by anymeans, but the domain listed appears to not
    be a google domain:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.google.com/safebrowsing/diagnostic?site=googleusercontent.com/\r\n\r\nIf
    it is, it's odd that it'd be serving malware, but I suppose if it's unmonitored
    user content, that could be the case. "
  created: '2010-05-19 16:48:13'
- author:
    name: laniblaze
  body: What is the "web fonts game"?
  created: '2010-05-19 17:10:43'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What is the \"web fonts game\"?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s the one where
    you design a font for web use and everybody places bets on what rendering method
    makes the font look best. You get extra points if designers don\u2019t think you\u2019re
    crazy when you try to explain that great web text fonts will probably require
    optical sizes customized for different rendering environments."
  created: '2010-05-19 17:56:32'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Yes, we're live now at <a href=\"http://code.google.com/webfonts\">code.google.com/webfonts</a>.
    I'll post more in a bit, but I'm hugely excited about this. A huge shoutout to
    typophile as well, I reached out to a bunch of designers through contacts here.\r\n\r\n@aluminum:
    It is a Google domain, but is split off into a separate domain because it does
    host less-trusted content, including uploads from users.\r\n\r\n@James: Hey, I
    think Google servers are pretty fast :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 18:12:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "No doubt that leveraging Google's CDN capabilities can be a good thing speed-wise
    for lots of sites. Raph...what's your involvement with he project?\r\n\r\nPaul
    Irish just posted some details too:\r\n\r\nhttp://paulirish.com/2010/details-on-the-new-google-webfont-api/"
  created: '2010-05-19 18:30:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: '@aluminum: It''s basically my baby, with lots of help from the rest of the
    team :)'
  created: '2010-05-19 18:39:58'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "Raph, I eagerly await your more detailed post and hope you can offer insight
    into the project, it's scope, goals,  benefits and drawbacks. \r\n\r\nAlso, would
    be interested to hear any opinions on the quality of these initial fonts posted
    here: http://code.google.com/webfonts"
  created: '2010-05-19 20:33:40'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "One thing that I've been thinking about/anticipating for a long time in regards
    to webfonts....\r\n\r\nA whole lot of people are going to subject their readers
    to display fonts at body copy sizing. Which is even more troubling than in the
    print world because not only is it stylistically dubious... most display font
    on screen simply can't hold up to small sizes at screen resolutions.\r\n\r\nCase
    in point... Josefin Sans Std Light. One of the inititial fonts on the google webfonts
    project. Looking at the specimen (http://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Josefin+Sans+Std+Light)
    it barely holds up below 30 px. "
  created: '2010-05-19 20:40:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...most display font on screen simply can't hold up to small sizes at screen
    resolutions.\r\n\r\nIt seems simple to recommend ranges of use per style. You
    can't stop them, but you can guide them. \r\n\r\nI found this site very interesting.
    While bouncing simple samples off the server, it seems to 1.5X the size you ask
    for, points, pixels or ems? At least it measures that way on my Mac in Firefox
    and Safari. So maybe text is less of a problem that way... ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-19 20:55:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: http://googlecode.blogspot.com/2010/05/introducing-google-font-api-google-font.html
  created: '2010-05-19 20:58:30'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Also, would be interested to hear any opinions on the quality of these
    initial fonts posted here:</cite>\r\n\r\nI wouldn\u2019t say that any of these
    fonts is a bad screen type. But I really don\u2019t see why Google offering free
    hosting of these fonts is necessary, or even especially useful. There are already
    other options out there for free font hosting and for converting such fonts for
    self hosting. And history suggests that the open-source crowd will eventually
    create many more offerings just for the sake of doing it.\r\n\r\nMore importantly,
    you also noted, most these fonts aren\u2019t going to work at smaller sizes. If
    Google really wants to add something of value to the web fonts world it needs
    to go beyond offering the same free fonts that everyone else will. Commissioning
    type designers to build out open-source screen type families with a wide range
    of character sets would be much more valuable then hosting extant free fonts ;)"
  created: '2010-05-19 21:12:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'And just to be clear: that comment was entirely in reference to Google hosting
    those fonts. I do feel that Google putting another open-source web font API out
    there is probably a good, valuable thing.'
  created: '2010-05-19 21:31:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Shout out to [[Ascender Corporation]] for the [[Droid]] fonts (well, a few
    of the weights). Google commissioned Droid for the [[Android OS]], and should
    work very well in small sizes. (Saying this without testing it in a web context.)
  created: '2010-05-19 22:54:00'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Droid works great small. That's what it was optimized for.\r\nSerif test
    page: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/fontface/sc/droidfamilytest.htm\">Droid
    Serif Test</a>."
  created: '2010-05-19 23:34:59'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Whenever there's a discussion on webfonts, I feel there's a missing point
    of view. And that is the point of view of Windows users who's only concern with
    screen typography is 'reading'. On Windows XP and earlier the default rendering
    of text is plain old Aliased Type (Unless of course you're running an application
    that renders type differently e.g. Acrobat Reader, Office 2007 etc...)\r\n \r\n
    \r\nAliased Type\r\n\r\nGood old Aliased type works perfectly for reading on screen
    (Courier, Verdana, Georgia at sizes ranging from 8 to somewhere in the teens are
    pleasant to the eye and easy on the brain). Quality typefaces whether an FF Library
    font or a TDC Awarad Winner, whether FontShop dubs it 'Web' or it bears the name
    Droid, all of these and the thousands of print typefaces out there don't even
    come close to the quality of the \"Core System Fonts\" when it comes to reading
    aliased type in your web browser.\r\n \r\n \r\nAnti-Aliasing\r\n\r\nThe Macintosh
    has had a great anti-aliasing engine for years now. The baseline and the x-height
    always align (Unlike PDFs) it looks phenomenal in small sizes even readable in
    size 6 for certain typefaces. It is part of the OS it is always turned on you
    don't have to worry about it. It works in all applications unless the application
    over-rides it. Conclusion: text on the Mac is beautiful to look at, the new @fontface
    websites look delicious.\r\nOn Windows it is optional to turn on Anti-Aliasing,
    but with all my respect to those who worked on the algorithm, it looks like a
    beta. The thing is the Microsoft guys were very resistant to the idea of imitating
    paper on screen.\r\nSo if you're publishing websites for Mac users to view then
    the future is now. Otherwise, wait for Microsoft to buy or steal the Apple Anti-Aliasing
    algorithm and for all PC users to switch to that latest technology, or figure
    out new fonts that look good when Aliased and yet are beautiful typefaces when
    it comes to their Contour and overall texture. \"The\" example to follow is Georgia.
    Oh wait Verdana Condensed sounds like a good start.\r\n\r\n.  \r\n. \r\n.  \r\nGoogle
    Chrome on Windows XP\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fullscreen capture
    5192010 70325 PM_5883.jpg]\r\n.  \r\n. \r\n.  \r\nIE8: The new Internet Explorer
    slaps Clear-Type on everything\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fullscreen
    capture 5192010 70346 PM_6448.jpg]\r\n. \r\n. \r\n. \r\nSpiekermann.com // Google
    Chrome\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fullscreen capture 5192010 70420
    PM_6079.jpg]\r\n. \r\n. \r\n. \r\nIE8 fail, the only thing worse than Arial on
    Erik Spiekermann's website is Anti-Aliased Arial on Erik Spiekermann's website.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fullscreen
    capture 5192010 70541 PM_3978.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-20 01:35:47'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "it is true... text rendering on windows is pretty terrible. \"Clear-type\"
    is a hack that is being marketed as a feature. I can consistently see the color
    fringes on clear type handled text... and it bugs me a lot.\r\n\r\nThe interesting
    thing\u2014which gives weight to the argument that the type with which a reader
    is most familiar is the most legible\u2014is that many a longtime XP user will
    complain that fonts rendered on Macs are too \"fuzzy\". It infuriates me.. but
    it's a fact."
  created: '2010-05-20 01:54:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Johnny: Most of us (not counting those who are visiting Typophile only for
    ID requests) are not unaware of the challenge different rendering engines pose.
    The approaches to rendering differs, yes, but so does the opinions about which
    one\u2019s the best. This terrain is hard to navigate anyways. There\u2019s multiple
    rendering settings, multiple browsers, multiple OS\u2019s and multiple font formats. "
  created: '2010-05-20 02:08:11'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And a lot of drag too, with users still running old versions of OS\u2019s
    and browsers."
  created: '2010-05-20 02:13:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Indeed; it's <em>very</em> hard to definitively say that any web font \"works
    great small\". Droid might work alright in one environment, but it also falls
    apart in other environments.\r\n\r\nWhile a discussion over which rendering approach
    is best probably won't help much, I do agree with Johnny that many people \u2013
    even those of us who should know better \u2013 often don't take the time to check
    how things look across the board. And understandably so; doing a proper test even
    in a minimal number of browsers can be a pain.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, it seems
    that a majority of the people who only check one environment seem to do so in
    one of the more forgiving environments (on a Mac)."
  created: '2010-05-20 02:49:07'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "@Nick, this is exactly what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n@Neumann, I've heard
    the \"fuzzy\" comment but I've also heard \"Holy Shit, this screen has a really
    high resolution\"\r\n\r\n@Frode Support is eventually discontinued but XP is one
    of the most widely used. I agree there's way too many browsers with way too many
    surprising results. I don't know if this is the result of the free market or of
    the disregard to regulations and conventions."
  created: '2010-05-20 03:05:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Unfortunately, it seems that a majority of the people who only check
    one environment seem to do so in one of the more forgiving environments (on a
    Mac).</cite>\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think that checking is the problem. It\u2019s
    that not many people have the resources to develop well-hinted TrueType fonts,
    much less check to see how they look. Microsoft needs to get on the ball and make
    TrueType-hinting more designer friendly or the Windows rendering problems aren\u2019t
    going away."
  created: '2010-05-20 03:55:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Cardo-nal Bembo.\r\nCute."
  created: '2010-05-20 06:13:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "For those who haven't seen the new Google font directory site through the
    lens of Windows yet, these screenshots of some of the font samples with the default
    settings in IE8 on a Vista machine give Johnny's complaints a bit more context\u2026\r\n\r\n<a
    href=http://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Vollkorn>Vollkorn</a>:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Vollkorn-Vista-IE8_6257.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=http://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Crimson+Text>Crimson Text</a>:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Crimson_Text-Vista-IE8_3483.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n<a
    href=http://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Cardo>Cardo</a>:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cardo-Vista-IE8_3472.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nRegardless
    of your personal antialiasing preference, I think it's safe to say that the fonts
    above aren't very usable (of course I'm always open to other thoughts). I fully
    realize that text fonts which render well in Windows are hard to make (nevermind
    get as open source), but I'm surprised that most of the stuff in the current Google
    font directory made the cut."
  created: '2010-05-20 10:19:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@raph...thanks for all the info and participating in the discussion!\r\n\r\n@james...the
    main benefit of using Google to host the web fonts (over any other option) is
    primarily ubiquity. Lots of folks are using Google as a CDN for things like jQuery
    where not only is it then being requested from a large (and localized?) CDN, but
    the odds of the file already being cached in the user's browser is increased. "
  created: '2010-05-20 16:08:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nicksherman\r\n\r\n>I think it's safe to say that the fonts above aren't
    very usable \r\n\r\nThey'll get used anyway. Don't delude yourself.\r\nIt ain't
    what they is, it's what they're not. TNFG. (They're not f-cking Georgia.)\r\nAnd
    they are free. Free counts for a lot.\r\n\r\nBesides, betcha the look of these
    fonts can be improved greatly without much ado.\r\n\r\nGonna give it a try myself.
    Free, right?\r\n\r\nLet you know.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-05-20 16:16:13'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "@neumann:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Champion_4068.png]"
  created: '2010-05-20 17:03:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: A little OT, but I find interesting that at least two of the initial offerings
    are typefaces put up for critique on Typophile.
  created: '2010-05-20 19:03:56'
- author:
    name: neumann
    picture: 109611
  body: "I feel that since the @fontface now google web fonts trains have left the
    station..\r\n\r\n the best way to mitigate disaster might be as dberlow commented
    \"It seems simple to recommend ranges of use per style. You can't stop them, but
    you can guide them.\"\r\n\r\nRaph\u2014if you're still reading this thread\u2014any
    consideration of providing some recommended uses and sizes info in a prominent
    place  for each font sample."
  created: '2010-05-20 19:07:06'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "I stumbled across Typekit just now while looking at all this Google fonts
    business. Why would it be preferable to use Google's service for @font-face type
    hosting when they have a pretty crappy catalog of unknown faces when a designer
    could use Typekit for quite a nominal fee?\r\n\r\nForgive me if I sound uninformed,
    but I am.\r\n\r\nAlso, I use Mac OS and do not have the nasty rendering issues
    PC users experience as described above. I presume using a service like Typekit
    does not solve these issues of rendering disparities on different platforms, browsers,
    engines etc?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jayyy
      picture: 109661
    body: http://blog.typekit.com/2010/05/19/typekit-and-google/
    created: '2010-05-20 19:26:38'
  created: '2010-05-20 19:24:26'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: "Awesome, hope they add most of the stuff Font-Squirrel has @font-face kits
    for\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-20 20:17:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "http://www.cnn.com/2010/TECH/05/20/cnet.google.fonts/index.html?eref=rss_tech&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+rss%2Fcnn_tech+%28RSS%3A+Technology%29&utm_content=Google+Reader\r\n\r\nNow
    *that's* a url!"
  created: '2010-05-20 20:41:38'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '@jayyy there are technical/performance reasons to choose a hosted Google
    solution (CDN/caching, etc), but your criteria is broad commercial font selection
    at this very moment, then typekit is the better option for now. '
  created: '2010-05-20 20:42:52'
- author:
    name: catcubed
    picture: 120017
  body: "Hey all, I took screenshots and compared of each of the typefaces in all
    three main Windows rendering styles: ClearType, Standard, and Anti-Aliasing Off.
    Unsurprisingly, the Droid Family is the only font in this set that I would use
    for body text. All others are only suitable for headers or display text. And I
    would avoid using Inconsolata, Tangerine, Josefin, and Cardo except at really
    large display sizes (36px or larger).\r\n\r\nYou can see [[http://catcubed.com/2010/05/20/comparing-open-source-fonts-part-2/|my
    font comparison chart here]]. Each font listed links to it's corresponding screenshot
    to make it a handy reference for all you mac-only designers."
  created: '2010-05-20 21:24:25'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "@James Puckett: Google is indeed commissioning type designers to do new work;
    I put Raph in touch with some MATD/T&M graduates, and Vernon Adams (MATD) produced
    http://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Nobile for the directory.\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone would like to contribute a font, complete this form:\r\n\r\nhttp://googlecode.blogspot.com/2010/05/introducing-google-font-api-google-font.html"
  created: '2010-05-21 00:54:52'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "maybe this is off topic, but who else offers web font hosting now?\r\nright
    now from a quick search its:\r\n\r\ntypekit\r\nfontdeck\r\nfontslive\r\ntypefront\r\nfontspring\r\ngoogle
    fonts?\r\nkernest\r\ntypotheque webfonts\r\n\r\nany more?\r\n\r\n[edit: added
    extras]"
  created: '2010-05-21 06:06:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\r\n[[http://www.webtype.com|WebType]]\r\n\r\n[[http://www.webink.com|WebINK]]\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-21 07:04:07'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "For the Typowiki:\r\n[[List of web font services]]"
  created: '2010-05-21 08:07:11'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.ascenderfonts.com/\">Ascender Fonts</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://webfonts.fonts.com/\">webfonts.fonts.com</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/search/?q=web+fonts\">Fontshop</a>\r\n\r\n* fontspring
    doesn't host, it's purely retail.\r\n\r\nI'd bet there are a few more in the works,
    too... <em>sigh</em>"
  created: '2010-05-21 09:34:48'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Nick,\r\n<cite>I'm surprised that most of the stuff in the current Google
    font directory made the cut.</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess we just have to accept that
    not all hits offered by Google are perfect. When you do a normal Google website
    search and 5 out of 10 hits are useless you don't complain, you just use the other
    ones. Google is pretty good at finding relevant results but you still have to
    filter out a lot of junk yourself. I don't have a problem with that, whether it
    is about websites of fonts. Maybe they will come up with a smart ranking system
    that helps you separate the wheat from the chaff."
  created: '2010-05-21 10:10:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tim ahrens\r\n\r\n<em>When you do a normal Google website search and 5 out
    of 10 hits are useless you don't complain, you just use the other ones.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe
    they will come up with a smart ranking system that helps you separate the wheat
    from the chaff.</em>\r\n\r\nThank you for stating the obvious - it too often goes
    overlooked.\r\n\r\n1) If a font looks really awful, don't waste time with it,
    pass it by. Plenty more further down the list, or on another site.\r\n\r\n2) Ranking
    system - of course, there are many ways to handle this. User comments is one.
    A human editor whose job it is to prioritize is another one. (Wondering if this
    will be in Raph's remit.)\r\nTypekit's gallery is terrific - because you can see
    their fonts as they are actually being used in the context of a complete design.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    with typefaces, what looks good IS good. So, as long as the font is being shown
    using an in-browser specimen that you can examine, it's not like any secrets are
    being kept.\r\nIt will take awhile for all of this to sink in.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-21 17:55:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jayyy\r\n\r\n<em>Why would it be preferable to use Google's service for
    @font-face type hosting when they have a pretty crappy catalog of unknown faces
    when a designer could use Typekit for quite a nominal fee?</em>\r\n\r\nTwo things:\r\n1)
    I expect sharp improvements in the Google selections very quickly. When Typekit
    first announced, they had NO CATALOG. Nothing. They were in private Beta (if that)
    with nothing to see at all. Vaporware.\r\nGoogle's style is different, they don't
    mind releasing with next to nothing and evolving in full public view.\r\nAnd in
    that there is now precedent for font hosting and they don't have to deal with
    complex licensing issues from commercial font designers concerned with unlicensed
    copying, expanding the catalog is a lot easier and can be expected to move much
    more quickly than it did for Typekit.\r\n\r\n2) Because the fonts are freely licensed,
    there aren't any of the inefficiencies involved with obfuscation if you use Google.
    Typekit's appeal to font designers is that they have a strategy in place to discourage
    download-and-installation.\r\nWith Google (and Kernest, to name one other), you
    can use straightforward CSS. (Their javascript API is cool to have, but optional.
    Icing on the cake.)\r\n\r\nThem's the differences that I can see right now.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-21 18:22:00'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "I don't think the \"catalog is crappy\". The fonts offered are great in my
    opinion. I found Barry Schwartz's Goudy to be a closer match to my 24pt Goudy
    Old Style Italic metal font than Adobe's. Iconsolata is a personal favorite.\r\n\r\nThe
    Google team working on this is doing a great job, and the service they offer is
    great. The only problem is rendering and that's not Google's problem.\r\n\r\nThe
    @font-face model (delivering the fonts and not controlling the outcome) is one
    way to approach typography on the web. The other model is delivering rendered
    type (for example: GIF, Flash etc...) a great example of that is the Featured
    Face here on Typophile, another great example is the Preview on MyFonts and other
    font retailers; this reminds me of the 3rd party typesetter it's like working
    with Linotype lines and Linocuts instead of moveable type.\r\n\r\n@font-face is
    like cast Glass Type. Unlike Lead Type(web safe fonts) it breaks it doesn't bend.
    But with appropriate ink(Browser) and an appropriate Press(OS) and above all with
    a skilled printer(Web Designer) it may very well produce great results."
  created: '2010-05-21 18:32:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: does today's google doodle count as a 'web fonts game'? http://www.google.com/
  created: '2010-05-21 19:19:41'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "So do any of these services allow you to upload your purchased type for online
    use that would comply with most EULA's and not allow end-user pirating of the
    type?\r\n\r\nCufon *seems* to fit the bill. TypeFront does but states you must
    use type with a \"web-friendly license\"..."
  created: '2010-05-21 20:51:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">does today's google doodle count as a 'web fonts game'? \r\n\r\nMaybe. Wonder
    where they got the idea... :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/web/embedding/demos/7/about7.aspx
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-05-21 22:02:51'
- author:
    name: jonasthyssen
  body: I fail to see why i would want load the @fontface from gooogle rather than
    my own server.
  created: '2010-05-22 09:34:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jamespuckett\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t think that checking is the problem.
    It\u2019s that not many people have the resources to develop well-hinted TrueType
    fonts, much less check to see how they look. Microsoft needs to get on the ball
    and make TrueType-hinting more designer friendly or the Windows rendering problems
    aren\u2019t going away.</em>\r\n\r\nYou've got it right. In a world where everything
    was funneled through the OS - mostly Windows, obviously - Microsoft's reliance
    on a small group of font technologists that already knew the ropes was tolerable.
    Now it isn't. But it's been neglected too long for it to be easily undone.\r\nTrueType
    is extremely under-supported - especially hinting. There's been no investment
    in learning materials. This is obviously a frustration for professional type designers,
    so you can imagine how a novice feels.\r\nHow many expert TrueType hinters are
    there in the world? A dozen, maybe? It's kind of nuts."
  created: '2010-05-22 13:20:32'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "Many of these concerns are so silly!\r\n\r\nWhile I can understand the hubbub
    over which typefaces Google chose, cannot we all be happy that typography is once
    again in the limelight, with a massive player by its side?\r\n\r\nI was just lamenting
    to a group of web developers that paltry choice of typefaces available and they
    all scoffed at me. <em>So unimportant!,</em> they said, <em>get over it!</em>
    they said. But web developers are getting more graphic tools in their arsenal
    and they have to pay next to nothing to do it. \r\n\r\nWhy is there no celebration
    over that? \r\n\r\nThe best way to kill something is to restrict it to the closed
    doors, in tall Ivy-draped towers. That's my opinion. "
  created: '2010-05-22 17:43:19'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Why is there no celebration over that?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat do you want,
    an iChat circle-jerk followed with champagne toasts? Celebration isn\u2019t going
    to accomplish much. Cycles of constructive criticism and hard work are far more
    necessary. "
  created: '2010-05-22 18:01:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"I fail to see why i would want load the @fontface from gooogle rather than
    my own server.\"\r\n\r\nPerformance. "
  created: '2010-05-23 01:49:32'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "@James Puckett\r\n\r\nCircle jerk\u2014you mean that isn't happening <em>right
    now</em>? I see many accomplished typographers lamenting that an uninformed public
    will be utilizing fonts available to them incorrectly. \r\n\r\nIn other news,
    launching rocket ships propel forward.\r\n\r\nAnd while you may think that there
    is <em>constructive criticism</em> to be had, it's more of a closed issue from
    how I see it.\r\n\r\nCould <em>better</em> (better as in: superior design) fonts
    have been chosen? Purely the speculation of an elite few. Nobody cares. You could
    recommend typefaces until the sunsets; can we not all agree that there are 100s
    that were suitable for selection? A few typographers were lucky this week and
    received Google's watchful eye. Not much else to be had there.\r\n\r\nUnless of
    course you believe that the typefaces chosen are poorly designed, period. In which
    case well... I won't disagree with your skepticism. "
  created: '2010-05-23 04:10:31'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "As the guy behind Crimson Text, I'd like to add that some of the typefaces
    just aren't perfect yet. Google has always been releasing early and often, and
    the font directory is clearly labelled \"beta\". Many of the faces don't have
    the most rudimentary hinting, some (like Crimson Text) aren't even really spaced
    yet. (And still, I saw a weblog using Crimson via the API yesterday. Wasn't too
    pretty.)\r\n\r\nFonts like Vollkorn or Cardo have been around for a long time,
    and Google is trying to breathe new life into them (Vollkorn now has a Bold, for
    example). I'm sure you'll see huge improvements over the summer.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    see many accomplished typographers lamenting that an uninformed public will be
    utilizing fonts available to them incorrectly.</em>\r\n\r\nI see them too. But
    most of the fonts were freely available a long time before Google's font directory.
    Will the hype on the new API reach enough of those \"uninformed\" masses to allow
    them to ruin the web by setting text in 12pt-Tangerine? I doubt it.\r\n\r\n<em>How
    many expert TrueType hinters are there in the world? A dozen, maybe? It's kind
    of nuts.</em>\r\n\r\nFull ack. Microsoft should be paying damages for the pain
    TT hinting really is. Mac and FreeType seem to be doing fine without it anyway
    ..."
  created: '2010-05-23 05:04:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">What do you want, an iChat circle-jerk followed with champagne toasts?\r\n\r\nUh,
    is there like a site or something where you can sign up for invitations to those?
    ;)\r\n\r\n@all\r\nTo show you how quickly things change:\r\nA lot of commenters
    here and elsewhere write like Typekit has been around forever and a part of the
    natural order of things.\r\nLast year when they were a part of the Web Fonts panel
    at <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/web-font-players-converge-at-typecon-2009/\">Typecon
    in mid-July, 2009</a> <strong>they had nothing but an alpha demo.</strong> Nearly
    vaporware. All they had was a proof of concept to show the type designers at the
    conference. After that, it took months for them to get out of Beta.\r\nSo they've
    been around well less than a year. (And now they're the gold standard - this shows
    you the power of being \"first with the most\".)\r\n\r\nGoogle is doing with Google
    fonts what Google does: release at a very early stage and then evolve in full
    view. Plus, it's set up as an open source project from the get-go and so collaboration
    will be a big part of the effort. Plus, they've partnered with Typekit so the
    learning curve for them is greatly reduced.\r\nBitching about the \"quality\"
    of the few fonts they're offering beside Droid is beside the point. They're just
    getting started.\r\nWhat's important is that they <em>have</em> started: @font-face
    is supported broadly enough to warrant Google's attention.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-23 14:23:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Google has always been releasing early and often, and the font directory
    is clearly labelled \"beta\". Many of the faces don't have the most rudimentary
    hinting, some (like Crimson Text) aren't even really spaced yet.\r\n\r\nThis approach
    doesn't work very well for fonts, where users expect the basics (eg. spacing)
    to be right, and more importantly not randomly change from version to version
    causing documents to reflow. That was one of the main reasons Adobe, when upgrading
    their library renamed fonts Std and Pro. It's great that Google is paying for
    freeware  fonts to be upgraded but there's an argument for nailing the basics
    first before unleashing what amounts to core web font on the world. \r\n\r\n>
    Microsoft should be paying damages for the pain TT hinting really is.\r\n\r\nLOL!
    You do know who invented TrueType, don't you? :-)"
  created: '2010-05-23 14:25:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nsii>LOL! You do know who invented TrueType, don't you? :-)\r\n\r\nYeah
    - I was thinking about this yesterday and couldn't help but smile and shake my
    head. Life and its ironies.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-23 14:26:27'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "<em>LOL! You do know who invented TrueType, don't you? :-)</em>\r\n\r\nHaha
    ... I do. Ironic indeed :)"
  created: '2010-05-23 17:13:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii >LOL! You do know who invented TrueType, don't you? :-)\r\n\r\nImagen?\r\n\r\nScosch>
    Mac and FreeType seem to be doing fine without it anyway ...\r\n\r\nThe Mac is
    a closed hardware environment where apple goes to great lengths to make sure fonts
    just work on the Mac, or are completely out of the user's hands as in safari and
    system fonts, iPhone as well.  \r\n\r\nAnd, I don't think freetype is doing fine
    without hints or hinting, unless you e.g. would be fine without you, e.g., or
    springtime would be fine without springtime. Like windows, Linux and other freetype-using
    systems, quality rests on a diverse technologically provocative hardware and software
    \ environment and freetype's usefulness there is varied.\r\n\r\nCheers!  \r\n
    \  "
  created: '2010-05-23 20:09:21'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "Point taken.\r\n\r\nI was oversimplifying. I find that non-hinted fonts usually
    look acceptable on Linux (FreeType's autohinter, that is) and Mac (which also
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TrueType#Macintosh_and_Windows\">ignores</a>
    most TT hints nowadays), but are often completely illegible in Windows (with or
    without subpixel rendering). But all that <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/13964\">has
    been discussed to death</a> already.\r\n\r\nI solemny swear to just shut up next
    time :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-23 20:48:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I was oversimplifying. \r\n\r\nMe too.\r\n\r\nThe wikipedia needs editing
    re fonts, hinting, linking, em, embededding, and more. \r\n\r\nThe Mac either
    uses all the hints, as when the user sets smoothing to a size in the appearance
    menu, and then uses a size smaller than that setting. Or the user gets no hints,
    by choosing a point size larger than that same setting. Its simple, and the only
    bad match is a user with a setting in the appearance menu using an unhinted font
    below that setting.\r\n\r\nOn Windows, unfortunately, there are a lot more bad
    matches, and to bring it back to topic, the matches are beginning to swarm. A
    new and interesting question about font development, is whether corrections can
    be made to fonts fast enough in a live web environment, so bad matches are rematched
    to good type for users <em>faster than</em> new bad matches \"arrive\".\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-24 13:21:18'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Coming back to the Google service:\r\nAre there already any (good) real-world
    examples of Google webfonts in use?"
  created: '2010-05-29 14:43:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-29 15:12:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tim ahrens\r\n\r\nhttp://www.gobiernodechile.cl/\r\n\r\nand Smashing Magazine\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-05-30 14:32:19'
date: '2010-05-19 12:56:44'
node_type: forum
title: Google getting into the Web Fonts game?

---
