---
author:
  name: Nub
  picture: 119450
body: "I have been wanting to make myself a porfolio for sometime. I have gone thourgh
  many many many designs for myself. And after looking at louie mantia's work and
  site I decided to go for simple.\r\n\r\nSo here is the second gen of my personal
  portfolio, so far I just have the general design done for the home page, with my
  newly pixeled logo. So, I am look for critique to make it the best I can.\r\n\r\nSo
  here it is, <a href=\"http://zachnet.inkincdesign.org/site2/\"> My Site, ZNET</a>\r\n\r\nPlease
  do comment.\r\n\r\n\r\nOh, small thing about the Works page. Basically the idea
  is that it is a gallery of projects/art I have done. Now when you click the Works
  tab I wrote a small algorithm that will randomly generate a space invader styled
  pixel art. Each grey box will be filled with a work in due time, and when a work
  is clicked a lightbox like effect will happen to bring up a large version of the
  image along with a project description, title, date, and maybe some other info.
  Ideas/thoughts on this will be appreciated, hopefully I will have a working demo
  in a day or two."
comments:
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "There isn't really enough content to give a critique. There seems to be an
    error that happens on my Mac running Safari where I get leftover menu choices.
    Uhh, not certain how to say that really, here's a screen grab to illustrate the
    issue.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/problem_3737.jpg]"
  created: '2010-05-27 03:04:35'
- body: I'm on a Macbook Pro using Firefox, and all I can see is your big ZNET background
    logo. The links on top click, but they only refresh the page. Nothing else. Sorry.
  created: '2010-05-27 05:43:23'
- author:
    name: all about seb
    picture: 110631
  body: Same as Alaskan (OS X 10.5, Safari 4)
  created: '2010-05-27 06:54:42'
- author:
    name: whyawhelk
  body: Vista+Firefox is just giving me Javascript False screens everywhere.
  created: '2010-05-27 09:55:03'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "Weird, im on OSX 10.6.3 with safari 4.0.5, and I have tested on Firefox and
    have had many friends look at in Firefox on Windows and none of them have had
    a problem. Weird. Ok well thanks for the feedback, this is really baffling I have
    no strange code going on, its all rather simple. \r\n\r\n@Corey, that is really
    odd since I have display:inline, so they shouldn't be stacking at all.\r\n\r\n--Edit--\r\n\r\nI
    fixed the Firefox false page.\r\nI have yet to replicate the menu problem.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    please do read the top post again its updated.\r\n\r\n@ Alaskan, that is all the
    homepage is, if you stay there for 10seconds, you should notice that the logo
    fades into another one. As stated before this is a WIP (Work In Progress)"
  created: '2010-05-27 18:47:33'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: Without seeing more of your work it's hard to critique. Is your logotype indicative
    of your work or an anomaly you created to look cool? And it is very cool, if it
    was for the Hayden Planetarium I say it's terrific. The space invaders pixels
    also sounds fun, but again I don't know if it's an appropriate vehicle for your
    work. Right now it seems to be all about style over substance. Very interested
    in seeing work samples plugged in.
  created: '2010-05-27 22:44:49'
- body: "Ok, but....when I click the \"works\" link on top, all it does is refresh
    the logo. Same goes for the other three links.  Nothing else loaded...even after
    several minutes.   \r\n\r\nOh, and when you ask people to look at your portfolio,
    they expect to see actual artwork, not just an empty template of a portfolio website.
    That's why everyone is telling you it's broken. Repeatedly editing the top comment
    in this thread only adds to the confusion. \r\n\r\nAs far as your znet logo? I
    find it odd, for several reasons. Why the stars? Are you a designer for NASA?
    Why is your logo \"znet\" but your website zachnet? Aren't you concerned that
    \"Znet\" is already a well-established brand, and using it for yourself is ill
    advised and lacks creativity?"
  created: '2010-05-28 02:35:26'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "Heh, well you could have been constructive, and I said it was a WIP and the
    my logo serves as a mask and the stars happen to be some space scenes I have done.
    But, you seem to have just been completely negative, and I do not see why, I am
    a new designer, I have not researched the name. And I do not actually see any
    major competitors with that name. I think you have mistaken a Z for a C which
    happens to be nearly a whole alphabet away. I did not repeatedly edit the top
    I did it 1 time. So that new readers to the thread can get info I meant to be
    there in the first place that skipped my mind. If you feel I am a bad artist/designer,
    go ahead and say so, or say nothing at all, no need to try to dismantle my entire
    being. \r\n\r\nNow I came here for advice, and so far I have only been ridiculed,
    so I don't know if this place is worth the effort. "
  created: '2010-05-28 08:23:56'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: "When you introduce your submission as the second generation of your personal
    portfolio we are expecting to see a \"portfolio\". No one has said you are a bad
    designer. We have questions based on what your wrote and then showed us. If you
    put something up for a critique you are bound to read questions or statements
    you don't like or agree with. But they are meant to help and guide you. This site
    is a tremendous resource, with wonderful, insightful people. Read other posts
    you'll see that at times the feedback can be confusing, different people may make
    suggestions that conflict with each other. That's what's great about art, there
    are so many different approaches. However if most everyone is asking (to borrow
    from an old ad campaign) Where's the beef? That's your constructive comment. Want
    feedback on your portfolio? post an actual portfolio! Or did you want criticism
    on your logo? Then post just that. And if you're only looking for someone to say
    \"that's fantastic, you're amazing\" only show your work to your mother. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-28 19:54:48'
- body: 'Kris10: Ditto!'
  created: '2010-05-28 20:08:14'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "I understand how criticism works. But Alaskan offered no help. Not to mention
    my first post said \"so far I just have the general design done for the home page,
    with my newly pixeled logo. So, I am look for critique to make it the best I can.\"
    Which clearly states that I only have the front page done. So if you where expecting
    a full portfolio, then you missed that statement completely. \r\n\r\n@Alaskan,
    I am sure you are better than me at design and all, but I fail to see any of your
    statements as criticism, they are all bashing.  If you would care to explain how
    they are even close to helpful, then I would like to hear. Sarcasm does not go
    well with criticism, it creates a rude snarky stuck up attitude, and yes I do
    realize conveying tone is difficult via via text, which means we do need to explain
    ourselves better.\r\n\r\n@Kirs10, I don't want someone to just tell me it is good.
    And I don't want someone to say that all of it makes no sense and is horrible.
    I want people who can help guide me to improve it. The reason I didn't post my
    logo is because it needs to be seen on the page where it transitions between fills.
    Otherwise it is just a solid shape, since I am using it as a mask. And that is
    not how it will be presented."
  created: '2010-05-28 21:17:18'
- body: "Ah...you added that last paragraph to your top post AFTER my comment saying
    your site is broken, not before. \r\n\r\nAnd, since you have obviously not absorbed
    any of my comments thus far, I'll repeat: NOTHING works on your website. NOTHING.
    Would you like our opinion of a black background with four broken links on top?
    Seriously? "
  created: '2010-05-28 21:30:01'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "Are you kidding me? The site works in Safari 3+, FF2+, and in IE7+, minus
    a small bug in the lightbox.\r\n\r\nAnd the background isn't black, its actually
    a gradient, very low contrast, maybe your monitor settings are off.\r\nAs for
    your viewing problems, I do no know what settings or plugins you have in FF, but
    they could be the problem.\r\n\r\nAnd no, I added the paragraph way before you
    said that the site is broken, go ahead and check the times."
  created: '2010-05-29 01:23:52'
- body: "Five people have posted comments telling you your site is not working. If
    it's working on your computer, it's probably because it's cached a local .swf
    (or code snippets) that the rest of us can't get to. Try it on a completely new
    computer and/or test it on http://browsershots.org/ and you'll see what we all
    (don't) see.\r\n\r\nAs far as my settings/plugins? Those issues are the responsibility
    of the web developer to work around, not every web surfer on earth. My computer
    is less than six months old and my FF browser is updated automatically. If you
    send this link to a potential client, your site must work irregardless of their
    system. You can't/shouldn't argue with a potential employer that it's their browser's
    fault and expect to get a job as a web designer or developer. \r\n\r\nBut please,
    ignore this comment and tell me I'm not being constructive. That'll really help
    your career. \r\n\r\nPS; FWIW....We can't see the \"edited\" timestamps on your
    top comment. Only you can see that. "
  created: '2010-05-29 01:54:36'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: "The gradient works fine on my laptop mac screen. On the other hand it doesn't
    work that good on my pc screen.\r\nOn the logo, I like the transitions of different
    space images within the logo itself. However the \"Z\" needs some tweaks. I can
    read net very good, but I find the \"z\" kinda ambiguous."
  created: '2010-05-30 02:31:41'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "@Alaskan, I am just telling you my experience. I have used over 5 computers
    to test it. And have not encountered any of these problems. Which is why I am
    led to believe it is something on your end. There is no swf in anything I do,
    it is a horrible format, in my opinion. Also, I did not know you couldn't see
    the timestamps, but Also 2 messages above I stated I edited the top post, and
    that was my last edit to it, so if that ordering is not proof enough, then sorry.
    I am not trying to fight you, I just do not see why you are being so harsh. Also
    I just checked it on browsershots and it looked fine on 47/68 of the screenshots.
    A few of the ones that didnt display included ancient browsers, and Firefox that
    was complaining for a update. Still leading me to believe it has something to
    do with your end. \r\n\r\n@DavM, thanks I will see what I can do to pronounce
    the 'Z' better."
  created: '2010-05-30 05:56:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nub\r\n\r\nYour site doesn\u2019t work. I wonder, what it shall be. I almost
    see no content, but mainly childish effects. Except from the logo (which seems
    to change on mouseover), I can see exactly one image on the works-page. Blog and
    profile are totally empty.\r\n\r\n<cite>The site works in Safari 3+, FF2+, and
    in IE7+</cite>\r\n\r\nThe site does not work in IE7. It is discentered there.
    But I even don\u2019t know, what is intended because of all the crudeness. You
    request critique, but there is almost nothing, that can be criticized. And the
    rest does not work. I don\u2019t want to call that design. Naturally this is harsh,
    but it is the truth.\r\n\r\nIf you mean, you would be a designer, only because
    you are able to play a bit with images downloaded from the NASA or ESA, you are
    wrong.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I expect, that a website works in IE 6 \u2013 not necessarily
    in the same way as in later versions, but it should work! I even check webpages
    in IE 5, Firefox 1 and old Opera versions, just because I want to see, what happens
    there."
  created: '2010-05-30 11:17:33'
- author:
    name: DavM
    picture: 111865
  body: Regarding the grid. I'd rather go with a 5 or 6 square column width and easily
    add more when you have more works. That'd look more professional than a variable
    layout as you have now.
  created: '2010-05-30 12:18:05'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: "@Arno Enslin, Did you not read, It is still a WIP, and I did not download
    any pictures from anywhere. I made those space scenes. I have the psd's if you
    do not believe me, no need to be a dick about it. In the top post I am very sure
    I said that I only had the home page and the works page partially working, so
    I don't see why you expect the other pages to be done. Also, just because there
    is little content DOES not mean a site isn't working. I do not know why everyone
    thinks that. The site is extremely minimalistic.\r\n\r\n@DavM, Well I come from
    a programming background and not a artistic one, so I coded the backend to be
    completely dynamic, so no matter how the grid is made or looks it is just as easy
    to fill. All I do is add new images to my database through my backend, so that
    is not really a problem. The main reason I didn't just do a grid is 1) I have
    done it before 2) It is such a standard shape 3) A lot of people do it. So I thought
    I would try to be original.\r\n\r\n\r\nOk, so people are no longer confused.\r\n\r\nThe
    home page is 1 image the \"ZNET\" logo that fades every 10seconds to have a new
    FILL\r\n\r\nThe Works page is a 5x5 grid that is mirrored across the X axis from
    a randomly generate 3x5 strip, at the time of writing it only has 1 image in it
    because I am debugging.\r\n\r\nAll other pages just have 1 line of text as a place
    holder, and have yet to be implemented.\r\n\r\nIf this is confusing and comes
    across as broken, then I can not tell you what to think, as that is how the site
    is at the time of this post."
  created: '2010-05-30 16:53:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"as that is how the site is at the time of this post\"\r\n\r\nI'm thinking
    it's just a bit premature to be asking for critiques. You're spending more time
    explaining the intent and if that's the case, then maybe spend a bit more time
    flushing things out. You'll likely get better feedback at that point.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-30 16:59:41'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "@Darrel: {flushing things out} => <a href=\"http://itknowledgeexchange.techtarget.com/writing-for-business/which-is-correct-flush-out-or-flesh-out/\">{fleshing
    things out}</a>\r\n\r\n; )"
  created: '2010-05-31 04:58:05'
- author:
    name: Cristian Loghin
    picture: 114718
  body: "You might want to consider the styling and the position of the menu. It's
    too close to the top margin and too dark, so it's hardly visible. I like the grid
    idea.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/menu_6094.png]"
  created: '2010-05-31 08:59:12'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: '@Cristian Loghin, yeah that menu was actually from a old design, and I didn''t
    recode it. I have been brainstorming different navigation ideas, but I have yet
    to fully decide on one, so this is just temporary, but yes I do agree it needs
    to be changed/fixed. Man I wish HTML5 would be a standard already so that I could
    do some canvas/webGL and get some really fancy things going, haha. Most my ideas
    are too complicated for it to work right in the current javascript/dom manipulation
    structure, I would need more direct control over rendering. Anyways, thanks for
    the tips, also im a little confused on what the second screen is.'
  created: '2010-05-31 10:14:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Jquery have some bugs in the calculating of browser size, which might be why
    you have problems.
  created: '2010-05-31 13:28:54'
- author:
    name: Nub
    picture: 119450
  body: Thanks, noted.
  created: '2010-05-31 23:05:09'
- author:
    name: ophello
    picture: 119925
  body: "Nub\r\n\r\n1. You need a headline that spells out what it is you do \"hi,
    name is Nub and I specialize in creating space scenes.\"\r\n2. You need more than
    just one example of work\r\n3. You need a site that works across multiple browsers\r\n\r\nIf
    five people have reported issues, there's a good chance that you need to change
    your code. If you're using CSS correctly, we shouldn't have any problems.\r\n\r\nBTW...if
    space scenes is ALL that you do, you are not going to find much work. I'd think
    about expanding your portfolio and work on broadening your design skills."
  created: '2010-06-09 04:12:25'
- author:
    name: blkkkkk
    picture: 119567
  body: "yeah dude, you did say you only had the first page or whatever but you also
    said that it's second gen personal portfolio....\r\nwhatever....i'm with others
    on here, you need way more content before asking for critique. there is less stuff
    on here than a basic iweb template. seriously, are you serious?\r\nwhere is your
    blog? don't have a bio yet? you need to get to crackin on work before throwing
    together a portfolio. you need work for a portfolio.\r\nif you want honest advice
    - get some work to put in your portfolio - once you have that - hire someone to
    do your website for you."
  created: '2010-06-09 09:28:52'
- author:
    name: L.
    picture: 117666
  body: no content = no portfolio...
  created: '2010-06-13 16:32:27'
- author:
    name: Eos
  body: "People people, you just don't understand.\r\nHe isn't asking critique on
    the work in the portfolio.\r\nHe is asking critique on the main idea of the site
    itself.\r\nWhy the hell is that so hard to understand. \r\nFreaking arrogant comments
    imo.\r\n\r\nSite works fine, like the space invaders idea. \r\nI should give more
    contrast to the gradient, change the header\r\nand maybe you can downsize the
    \"space-invader\" page that it fits in \r\nthe screen, the effect is lost due
    to scrolling.\r\n\r\nHope it helps."
  created: '2010-06-14 22:53:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: No, the site is non-existent. Come back when you have something.
  created: '2010-06-14 22:58:55'
- author:
    name: Eos
  body: "I'm not saying it's full of creativity. \r\nThe site is existent. There are
    enough \"less is more\" sites around.\r\nJust a comment on the global design,
    that's what he is asking. \r\nBecause the site doesnt't have any work on it, doens't
    mean you cannot give any\r\ncomments on the site.. atleast there are some people
    who can give an idea, instead\r\nof giving stupid critique..\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-14 23:09:27'
- author:
    name: Kirs10
  body: Eos, I believe most of the comments wanting to see more of Nub's work is so
    we can see if the design makes sense with his overall style of art. Is his portfolio
    entirely comprised of space theme images? Is he marketing himself to do strictly
    that kind of work? Is he focusing on a small sample that could cause others to
    view him as a one-trick pony? Is the space theme appropriate for the work he'd
    like to be doing? Why the space theme? Was it just a neat idea he had and wanted
    to see if it worked? These are all legitimate questions that would be asked regarding
    any project. It's like asking for feedback on a dinner menu after telling us mustard
    that will be on the table. What else is being served? Mustard could be fine, or
    it could be awful. Asking for more information is not an attack. Especially since
    it was billed as a "second gen of my personal portfolio".
  created: '2010-06-15 03:59:34'
- author:
    name: Eos
  body: "Kirs, those questions are good. Those questions are constructive. \r\nAnd
    i see your point, i haven't said i liked the site. But comments\r\nshould be constructive,
    not giving snuck-up attitude chitchat. \r\n"
  created: '2010-06-15 15:23:59'
- author:
    name: L.
    picture: 117666
  body: Whatever. It seems that a sort of portfolio is finally online at http://inkincdesign.org/
  created: '2010-09-10 12:01:16'
date: '2010-05-27 01:20:04'
title: My portfolio

---
