---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "\u2022 [[http://www.w3schools.com/browsers/browsers_os.asp|W3C OS statistics]]\r\n\u2022
  [[http://www.w3schools.com/browsers/browsers_stats.asp|W3C Browser statistics]]\r\n\r\nQuestion
  1: <em>Based on these statistics, can we deduct roughly how many users (percentage)
  will see custom fonts (@font-face) with grayscale rendering or no smoothing in Windows?</em>\r\n\r\nQuestion
  2: <em>If a user has grayscale rendering or no smoothing selected, would they even
  notice it if they were delivered a poorly hinted font? The core web fonts are hinted
  extensively, but a lot of the fonts available in MS Office are not. Do you think
  the user would be so used to poor rendering that they wouldn\u2019t care?</em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Answer 1: Not really, because we have no data on what percentage of XP users
    have ClearType turned on. As noted previously, some OEM installations come with
    CT enabled. I'd guess that well over half of the XP users are seeing aliased/greyscale
    rendering, but I couldn't estimate a percentage.\r\n\r\nAnswer 2: There's a big
    gap between \u2018poorly hinted\u2019 and \u2018not hinted extensively for aliased
    rendering\u2019, and a lot of fonts exist in that gap. Some presuppose greyscale
    antialiasing, and some presuppose subpixel antialiasing, and some have halfway
    decent aliased hinting but not the quality of the Windows core fonts and web fonts.
    What I think of as poorly hinted will have legibility problems due to inconsistent
    alignments, stem weights and counters."
  created: '2010-06-01 18:15:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I'd guess that well over half of the XP users are seeing aliased/greyscale
    rendering, but I couldn't estimate a percentage.</cite>\r\n\r\nI assume, 10% or
    less.\r\n\r\nAnd I assume, that round about 55% of all systems (inclusively browsers)
    fill the requirements for webfonts with a strong tendency upwards. (I was very
    surprised, that meanwhile almost 50% are using Firefox.)\r\n\r\n<cite>The core
    web fonts are hinted extensively, but a lot of the fonts available in MS Office
    are not.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut most Office documents are probably intended for printing.
    In contradiction to that a website (displayed on screen) is the end product for
    most users. So they have higher demands on websites than on a Word document, that
    is displayed on screen.\r\n\r\n(When I write a text, the quality of the rendering
    is less important for me.)"
  created: '2010-06-01 18:47:19'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Answer 1: Even if we knew the percentage of manual system settings as John
    mentioned, we still can not determine it &ndash; we need to know the usage share
    of IE 7 and IE 8 on XP, because they both change system settings. Unfortunately
    I couldn't find this data anywhere, I would love to know it!\r\n\r\nAn estimation,
    excluding Safari on XP, the number of XP users with ClearType GDI rendering: XP
    OS usage share &ndash; number of IE 6 &ndash; (number of FF + Chrome + Opera on
    all platforms) * XP OS usage share = 53% &ndash; 17% &ndash; 22% = 14%\r\n\r\nThe
    data is from Wikipedia, which also includes W3C statistics (<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_web_browsers\">Usage
    share of web browsers</a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems\">Usage
    share of operating systems</a>).\r\n\r\nI used an estimation that FF & others
    have the same share on all platforms. They don't, but share of IE 7 and IE 8 varies
    much more depending on OS, so I rather used the data of other browsers.\r\n\r\nThis
    leaves 39% users with Standard GDI rendering, not including manual settings. Final
    number is smaller, but how much? Also, there is probably minority of users who
    turn off CT in IE 7, 8.\r\n\r\nI also see a problem: The usage share of IE 6.
    W3C data is 7%, NetMarketShare is 17%. I would say W3C visitors are not so typical
    and use more advanced browsers.\r\n\r\nAnd maybe an interesting fact: you can
    actually determine what system setting is someone using. You can use Flash, which
    can render system text on the bitmap, and then you can read pixels and inspect
    them. I have to check if something similar exists for HTML 5 canvas.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-01 22:03:28'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>\u2026 they have higher demands on websites than on a Word document,
    that is displayed on screen.</em>\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\n<em>Some presuppose greyscale
    antialiasing, and some presuppose subpixel antialiasing, and some have halfway
    decent aliased hinting but not the quality of the Windows core fonts and web fonts.</em>\r\nYes,
    this gap is obviously huge. I\u2019d love to learn more about what the actual
    differences are in hinting for Greyscale, subpixel antialiasing (Cleartype) or
    at a level like what was done with Georgia/Verdana.\r\n\r\nMy third question:\r\nAt
    what level should we expect a web font to preform today?"
  created: '2010-06-01 22:05:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Miha, I was writing while you posted.\r\nStandard GDI = Greyscale?"
  created: '2010-06-01 22:08:12'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Standard GDI = Greyscale only <em>or</em> combination of greyscale/Black
    & White <em>or</em> Black & White only. It all depends on font outlines and GASP
    table.\r\n\r\nPS: I leave answers for II & III for others :-P"
  created: '2010-06-01 22:23:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@Arno and John: Just to be clear, I\u2019m interested in a percentage of
    all web users, not just Windows users."
  created: '2010-06-02 11:39:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@miha \r\n\r\nSo, your estimates are roughly:\r\n\u2022 50% (WinXP, 14% +
    WinVista, 23% + Win7, 13%) of all web users see Cleartype \r\n\u2022 40% see Greyscale/Black
    & White\r\n\u2022 10% see OSX\u2019 Quartz rendering or Freetype (or other)\r\n\r\nAm
    I right?"
  created: '2010-06-02 11:52:00'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Yes, except the Windows GDI is probably lower. Also, you have to be careful
    with the terminology: ClearType GDI doesn\u2019t necessarily mean ClearType, because
    fonts with PS outlines are rendered in greyscale (this is also visible on @font-face
    rendering diagram)."
  created: '2010-06-02 13:49:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Thanks, Miha. I\u2019m asking from a type design perspective, as in \u201CWhat
    level of hinting would I need for my fonts to render <em>acceptably</em>?\u201D
    as much as I\u2019m asking as a graphic designer (\u201CAre web fonts ready for
    professional use?\u201D)."
  created: '2010-06-02 14:23:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Some of my clients who couldn't afford full TT  manual hinting for b/w rendering
    opted for semi-auto hinting with the gasp table set to have antialiasing active
    at all sizes. This means that the text is always greyscale antialiased in GDI
    if ClearType is not turned on, regardless of text size. In practice this means
    that typical regular weight fonts are quite grey, and light weight fonts are very
    pale, but the aliasing artefacts that more intensive hinting would be needed to
    correct are avoided. I wouldn't recommend any of these faces for great readability
    in text sizes on the web -- nor were they intended for such --, but even in their
    pale grey incarnations they still look a heck of a lot better than PS fonts under
    GDI.
  created: '2010-06-02 19:38:55'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@frode\r\nIf it looks good, it <em>is</em> good. So I'm a little mystified
    by the question. I'm not sure how you would go about quantifying what \"acceptable\"
    is.\r\n\r\nThe only thing I know for sure is that with zoom being the universal
    method for resizing - not text size like it used to be when IE6 ruled - it's important
    for the font to look \"clean\" across the spectrum of sizes it's going to be rendered
    at.\r\nToo often with one-click auto hinting - there will be some sizes that rasterize
    weirdly.\r\nVery frustrating - 12px thru 16px might look fine and then at 17px
    some globs appear for one reason or another. Stupid computers.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    John Hudson is going to be publishing a full-featured tutorial on semi-automatic
    hinting soon so I don't expect this to be a problem much longer. :-)\r\n(I think
    it would sell, John. Heck, I'd pay. It's sorely needed, that's for sure. The world
    needs you, man. Serious.)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-02 20:23:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: Misunderstanding on my side. The tutorial is not yet published.
  created: '2010-06-02 21:15:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">\u201CWhat level of hinting would I need for my fonts to render acceptably?\u201D
    \r\n\r\nA general question independent of design style or use, but the earnest
    type designer should consider hinting the major cases, punctuation and figures
    very well in the Y axis. \r\n\r\nThis gets you the CT using majority, and on the
    bright side, maybe you can fund it by showing how good the fonts already look
    on the Mac. ;) \r\n\r\nWindows X hinting hardly matters with the \"tripling of
    the X resolution\" unanimous and increasing reliance on sub-pixel spacing and
    glyph rendering, and the resolution rise. \r\n\r\nBut Y hinting'll be required
    on Windows for most sizes of use and most fonts and for the foreseeable future.\r\n\r\nWhat
    \"level\" that is a hard question. It's a language, TT, and in learning enough
    to do decent Y instructions, you find out: to \"learn it all\", is required. I
    use around 20 hints or so, with variations, but it was nice occasionally to use
    one of the more obscure instructions every 80-100 glyphs when I needed it. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    auto hinterz are not nice about getting you part way there and leaving a fixable
    font, and even if they were... you'd have to know the language to fix little quirks
    here and there, caused by whatever unique design elements each new font design
    brings. \r\n\r\nSo, level 2 of 9? but you have to become a 5 first, then sink
    down to a 2 to do the work. And this is one big problem with needing hints at
    all, it's like trying to hire 1,000 biology Phds to collect frogs legs. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-02 23:09:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>However, John Hudson is going to be publishing a full-featured
    tutorial on semi-automatic hinting soon...</em>\r\n\r\nI am? Apart from the fact
    that this is the first I've heard of it, I'm not doing anything <em>soon</em>.
    I am, however, doing a lot of things not soon, so don't have time for anything
    more imminent."
  created: '2010-06-03 00:29:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I am? \r\n\r\nMore like \"Could you?\", but nice hide. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-03 11:10:14'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "If I understand this correctly, ok* rendering in Greyscale mode requires
    hinting in the X and Y direction. Ok rendering in Cleartype mode requires only
    hinting in the Y direction. I\u2019m simplifying things, but that\u2019s the general
    idea, is it not? \r\n\r\n* Not good, but fairly ok.\r\n\r\nIf just below 40% of
    every website visitor will see fonts rendered with Windows\u2019 Greyscale rendering,
    fonts that doesn\u2019t work in that environment are not \u201Cacceptable\u201D.
    \r\n\r\nWe have autohinting, X direction hints and Y direction hints, and we have
    delta hints (could anyone explain what they are?).\r\n\r\nAsking \u201Cwhat level
    is required\u201D is probably a bad question, but there\u2019s clearly a lot more
    effort in hinting like what was done with Verdana/Georgia than what Font Font
    do now. What is the difference?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-03 12:21:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>delta hints (could anyone explain what they are?)</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/hinting/hinttut4.htm\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-03 17:30:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I did some work on estimating the percentages of folks still seeing grayscale
    GDI rendering a couple months ago, and came out to about 31%. Well, 33% actually,
    but I also believe the percentage is dropping by about 1%/month right now.\r\n\r\nThat's
    fairly rough, as there are a number of missing pieces of info. But it should be
    the right ballpark. Seeing somebody else come up with 40% is not a surprise.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-06-04 02:58:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I remember some time ago a lot of blogs and even some newspapers encouraged
    people to upgrade from IE6. Maybe something like <em>\u201CDoes the font on our
    website look awful? Click here to learn why and what you can do about it!\u201D</em>
    that pops up for users without Cleartype would be a good idea."
  created: '2010-06-04 03:07:13'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: One thing to keep in mind is that for a given site, the stats on users visiting
    that site are more important than overall web stats.  The OS/browser version pool
    of a site like Ars.Technica will probably be very different from that of a website
    dedicated to lovers of knitting (IE6 users for sure!).
  created: '2010-06-04 08:04:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The biggest problem among the people I know seems to be distrust in any Windows
    version to come out later than XP and likewise, distrust in Internet Explorer
    in general. The combination of XP with Greyscale rendering by default and a non-IE
    browser like Firefox is very common.
  created: '2010-06-04 09:09:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "If those Firefox-on-XP users upgrade to the latest version, I believe the
    theory is they should see ClearType for non-system fonts in Firefox 4, due out
    in some 5-8 months. FF4 users on Vista and 7 may even see DirectWrite rendering,
    if things go as hoped. Right JD? \r\n\r\nMy general theory is that rendering will
    improve over the next few years, but the current issues may give webfonts a bit
    of a bad rap.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-06-04 19:04:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Oh, John's just so lazy. Therefore, I decided to publish an autohinting tutorial
    on my own. Corrections and improvements suggestions are welcome: \r\n\r\nhttp://sites.twardoch.com/typography/font-tech\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-05 04:11:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019ve seen some very promising examples of DirectWrite in action.\r\n\r\nMy
    theory is similar. The technology isn\u2019t 100% ready yet, but it\u2019s getting
    there."
  created: '2010-06-05 04:11:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>Oh, John's just so lazy.</em>\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nWhich reminds me
    that you owe me OTL feature classification, annotation and explication."
  created: '2010-06-05 04:36:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Corrections and improvements suggestions are welcome\r\n\r\nWell, how 'bout
    a preview of CT of some kind? ;)\r\n\r\nOther than that, a new slogo has developed
    around FL for TT: No native drawing + no native hinting = no natives reading.
    :)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-05 13:16:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n<cite>Corrections and improvements suggestions
    are welcome</cite>\r\n\r\nI would like to view the images in their native resolution
    in my browser. But they have no extension.\r\n\r\nThe CSS and the Javascript are
    from Google?\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-05 15:21:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@johnhudson\r\n\r\n>I am? Apart from the fact that this is the first I've
    heard of it, I'm not doing\r\n>anything soon. I am, however, doing a lot of things
    not soon, so don't have time for\r\n>anything more imminent.\r\n\r\nAwwww, you're
    no fun! The part about you doing a tutorial, of course, is a good natured poke
    in the ribs. So how about it? Say when, and I'll be there with copy of Camtasia
    Studio in hand. In person, if need be. I'll do anything to get out of Naples,
    Florida in the summer.\r\n\r\nI understand perfectly well what Frode means when
    he says \"acceptable\". It's like the famous line about pornography: you can't
    define it but you know it when you see it.\r\n\r\nHinting is problem #1. And it's
    an industry problem. What Phinney's calling a \"bad rap\" isn't good for anybody.
    Everybody and everything looks bad. Type designers, browsers, Microsoft, everybody.
    If ever there was a need for some collective mind-sharing without concern for
    compensation, nailing down a practical methodology for hinting fonts to an \"acceptable
    level\" is it. And I'm not buying that it's voodoo and can't be organized and
    codified and presented so as to minimize the learning curve.\r\n\r\nGlad to see
    Adam Twardoch stepped up - gotta go see what he's done. (And we must be in synch
    because I was shortly going to email him about exactly this.)\r\nBut I'm sure
    others have tips and tricks up their sleeves that can add greatly to the effort.\r\n\r\nSome
    fonts can be much improved using one-click conversion with auto-hinting.\r\nThe
    best results I've gotten so far are with Fontsquirrel's online tool. Ethan Dunham's
    done a lot of tweaking. I've seen dramatic improvement with no glaring deviations
    at certain sizes - which often happens.\r\nSo a lot of fonts <em>can't</em> be
    greatly improved with a one-click procedure - that's where a bit of hands-on effort
    is needed.\r\nFrom what I've seen and read and experienced - the eighty/twenty
    rule is at work here. You can get the eighty percent improvement for twenty percent
    of the effort of a full-blown hinting job done by an expert with VTT.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I don't think web designers are concerned at all about how the font prints and
    that simplifies things - there need not be concern about trade-offs between print
    and screen. And there's a remedy if the font doesn't print well - a print-only
    stylesheet with a print-ready font. Or a print stylesheet with fallback system
    fonts.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-05 19:09:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[Aside:\r\n\r\n<em>It's like the famous line about pornography: you can't
    define it but you know it when you see it.</em>\r\n\r\nAs William Safire unforgetably
    defined it, \u2018It isn't the teat, it's the tumidity.\u2019\_]"
  created: '2010-06-05 19:38:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>From what I've seen and read and experienced - the eighty/twenty
    rule is at work here. You can get the eighty percent improvement for twenty percent
    of the effort of a full-blown hinting job done by an expert with VTT.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    actual percentages vary depending on the typeface, but as a conceptual average
    that's about right. But the implications of that 20% differ significantly depending
    whether one is talking about display type or text, and the implications of the
    whole hinting model are now dependent on a variety of rendering methods in a way
    that didn't used to be the case. Sure, one can make a lot of fonts suck less with
    autohinting, but <em>if</em> the result is readable on screen at text sizes, today
    that will have more to do with the design of the typeface than with the hinting.
    Hinting used to make screen fonts; now design makes screen fonts, and ClearType's
    non-linear subpixel rendering relegate hinting to optically scaling the design
    in one direction (independent of what the design is doing in the other direction)."
  created: '2010-06-05 19:52:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks, Adam, for the guide!
  created: '2010-06-05 22:09:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "@John, \r\n\r\nI am infinitely lazier that you've ever been :) I am very
    well aware of what I owe. :P\r\n\r\nExcept when it comes to an autohinting guide
    ;)\r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-06 03:14:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\nFirst of all, re tumescence, great quote - were you aware that
    I was a <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/on-the-death-of-the-great-william-safire/\">big
    Safire fan</a>? (I still check out the teats but you know, once you reach a certain
    age, the tumidity is less of a tissue.)\r\nAlright, alright, maybe a pun too far
    into the blue zones, we'll let Dezcom be the judge of that.\r\nI still find it
    difficult to read \"On Language\" since Safire's death - he was too good and put
    too much of himself into it for anybody else to make it their own.\r\n\r\n>Sure,
    one can make a lot of fonts suck less with autohinting,\r\n\r\nYay! That is what
    we need! Less sucking. Also, the fonts that don't lend themselves to the screen
    should just be passed by. Total abstention is called for. I was working with the
    font Cardo that Google is offering. With all due respect to its creator, as a
    screen font it's a dog for a bunch of reasons. Not worth the fix. I might as well
    stick with Times New Roman.\r\n\r\nWe shall return to this... you have not heard
    the last, sir.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-06-06 14:18:40'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@Thomas Phinney\r\n<em>If those Firefox-on-XP users upgrade to the latest
    version, I believe the theory is they should see ClearType for non-system fonts
    in Firefox 4, due out in some 5-8 months. FF4 users on Vista and 7 may even see
    DirectWrite rendering, if things go as hoped. Right JD?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's
    the plan.  Nightly builds already contain the code for DirectWrite on Vista/Win7
    (disabled by default) and forcing Cleartype on XP for downloaded fonts.  Like
    IE, Cleartype might be forced on by default for system fonts also but that's more
    contentious, the decision hasn't been made yet.\r\n\r\nTo enable DirectWrite rendering
    with nightly builds:\r\n\r\n1. Enter 'about:config' in the URL bar\r\n2. After
    the warning, enter 'gfx.font' in the filter box\r\n3. Double-click on 'gfx.font_rendering.directwrite.enabled'
    to enable\r\n4. Restart\r\n\r\nOnce it's enabled by default, none of this will
    be needed.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-09 04:58:44'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nIf I am translating (<a href=\"http://docs.google.com/View?id=dhnxc5bs_21ggxfqxft\">your
    tutorial</a>) to German \u2013 am I allowed to publish the translation on my website?
    You are living in Berlin. So you probably speak German. If you already have a
    translation to German, I would just set a link to it, if you upload it. (By the
    way, in which language are you thinking? Or are you able to think in different
    languages without any translation? I only can think in German.)\r\n\r\n-----------------\r\n\r\n(I
    just had checked, if I can contact Adam via his personal contact form, but I could
    not find it. So I have checked my profile. I am logged in, but the access to my
    personal contact form is denied. (\u201CYou are not authorized to access this
    page.\u201D ) A few weeks ago it did work. Is this another Typophile bug?)"
  created: '2011-01-13 02:13:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I think it's a bug. \r\n\r\nMy languages of thought and speech are, in order
    of proficiency: Polish, German, English. I also do speak some Russian, but certainly
    not to the extent of thinking in Russian. \r\n\r\nI have not translated the tutorial
    into German, and don't currently plan to. But if you do make a translation, I
    would be happy to host it. The reason why I'd like to host it is because I'd be
    able to make further changes, and keep both versions up-to-date. \r\n\r\nPlease
    contact me ( adam at twardoch dot com ) and send me your Google login, and I'll
    duplicate the tutorial to make a German version, and will give you editing access.
    That's the beauty of Google docs. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-13 11:19:07'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nI have a very long to-do-list. Translating the tutorial is
    not on the top of it, because I first want to make my own website run with all
    my own works. (I have to start from the beginning, because my old website based
    on tables, was very static and so on. At the moment I am contacting people for
    their consents with regard to the non commercial usage of source materials, that
    I had used for photo compositions. And many of the copyright restrictions inhibit
    creativity/culture. It is a bit like you had to ask for the consent to use bananas,
    if you publish a recipe for banana split. [In case of translations it is naturally
    different, because I have to be in background with my own creativity and therefore
    the source dominates!]) If I decide to translate the tutorial, I don\u2019t need
    the Google account at once. I would contact you, if I am contented with the translation.
    Those translations are also an exercise with regard to the improvement of my English
    for me. And I am perfectionist.\r\n\r\n\u201CThis document describes an example
    process of generating hinted fonts with PostScript or TrueType outlines using
    automatic and/or simple manual steps in FontLab Studio 5.\u201D\r\n\r\nTranslation:
    Dieses Dokument beschreibt ein Verfahren [beispielhaft / eines von mehreren m\xF6glichen
    Verfahren / eine m\xF6gliche Verfahrensweise], Fonts mit PostScript- oder TrueType-Au\xDFenlinien
    [Maybe it is better, not to translate basic terms like outlines {or Vstem-/Hstem-Hints}]
    in automatischen und/oder einfachen manuellen Schritten [\u201CIn h\xE4ndischen
    Schritten\u201D sounds odd.] in FontLab Studio 5 zu hinten.\r\n\r\nOr: Dieses
    Dokument beschreibt ein Verfahren [beispielhaft / eines von mehreren m\xF6glichen
    Verfahren / eine m\xF6gliche Verfahrensweise], gehintete Fonts mit PostScript-
    oder TrueType-Au\xDFenlinien [Maybe it is better, not to translate basic terms
    like outlines {or Vstem-/Hstem-Hints}] in automatischen und/oder einfachen manuellen
    Schritten [\u201Cin h\xE4ndischen Schritten\u201D sounds odd] in FontLab Studio
    5 herzustellen.\r\n\r\nProbably I would decide for this translation: Dieses Dokument
    beschreibt ein Verfahren, Fonts mit PostScript- oder TrueType-Au\xDFenlinien in
    automatischen und/oder einfachen manuellen Schritten [\u201CIn h\xE4ndischen Schritten\u201D
    sounds odd.] in FontLab Studio 5 zu hinten.\r\n\r\nAnd I am not yet contented.
    If I am thinking about all phrases with this intensity, you can imagine, that
    the translation is a bigger project.\r\n\r\nAlthough I did ask you for your consent,
    because I want to host everything, in which I have invested time and energy, I
    agree with you, that it would be better to provide original and translations parallel.
    And because I think, that those documents should be provided at one place only,
    I can well live with the idea, that you also host the translation. So I would
    only link to both versions."
  created: '2011-01-13 12:47:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nif this were a translation into a language that I don't speak,
    I would prefer that this is hosted somewhere else. But since it's German, the
    primary reason why I think it's better that I host it is that, if I update the
    English version, I'll also be able to update the German version in parallel myself
    without much delay or hassle. This way, you won't need to track those changes
    yourself. \r\n\r\nObviously, I don't consider the document \"finished\". This
    is one of the types of publication that I think should grow and be refined over
    time \u2014 especially if new versions of software are released :) \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-13 13:18:07'
date: '2010-06-01 14:17:08'
title: Web rendering and what we should expect

---
