---
author:
  name: Tim Ahrens
  picture: 109692
body: "All fonts from Just Another Foundry are now also available as webfonts:\r\nhttp://justanotherfoundry.com"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i love the Facitizer. Such a great concept for previewing the font in use.\r\nhttp://just-another.com/facitizer"
  created: '2010-06-04 01:01:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Yep, it's brilliant Tim.\r\n\r\nAlso, I see you are hedging your bets one
    which spelling of \"web font\" wins out. ;)"
  created: '2010-06-04 06:58:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Facitizer is very cool. Look, Ma, I'm being all <a href="http://just-another.com/facitizer?p=www.typophile.com/node/71019">self-referential</a>.
  created: '2010-06-04 08:10:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Wow, that crashed Chrome, John. Firefox handled it, tho.
  created: '2010-06-04 08:44:26'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Thanks for the comments! Oops, hadn't thought about recursions. Should be
    quite easy to fix that in the code.\r\nAs to the \"webfont\" vs \"web font\" question,
    I wasn't aware of my inconsistencies. See my reply over in the [[http://www.typophile.com/node/71017|other
    thread]]."
  created: '2010-06-04 09:02:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Congratulations, Tim! Only Facit Web mentions \u201Chand hinting\u201D. Is
    it optimized for Cleartype or Greyscale rendering?"
  created: '2010-06-04 09:21:12'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Frode, Facit Web only contains TT-hints in vertical direction but they are
    set/checked manually, all styles, all glyphs. You could call y-only hinting \"optimized
    for Cleartype\" but this is a bit of an euphemism.\r\nI will investigate into
    serving CFF-based WOFFs to Firefox 3.6 on Windows for some my webfonts, which
    seems to render a bit better."
  created: '2010-06-04 10:13:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Basic hinting or size specific delta hints?
  created: '2010-06-04 18:24:07'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "<cite>Basic hinting or size specific delta hints?</cite>\r\n\r\nI have not
    used delta hints but I wouldn't call it \"basic\" either.\r\n\r\nDelta hints are
    not necessarily a sign of good hinting. I consider them more of a fix if you don't
    get things to work otherwise, and if you try hard you nearly always find a solution
    using size-unspecific hints.\r\n\r\nHave a look at the R of Facit Web Semibold:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FSB_R_4794.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think it works quite well across all sizes but it isn't a trivial solution either.
    Should I interpolate the upper of lower edge of the middle stroke? Which endpoints
    work best for the interpolation? Rounding distances, destinations, up or down,
    or not at all?\r\nIt takes quite a bit of trying out things so it's probably not
    much quicker than working delta hints. It just feel a bit cleaner to me."
  created: '2010-06-04 19:21:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode, there are different kinds of delta hints. Outline delta hints move
    either individual points (final deltas) or sections of outline (medial deltas),
    and are used most in hinting for b/w rendering and some aspects of greyscale.
    In what I think of as \u2018subpixel hinting\u2019 or \u2018CT hinting\u2019,
    far fewer delta hints are necessary (and the CT renderer by default ignores all
    x-direction deltas anyway), and as Tim notes one should only use deltas to tidy
    up situations that other kinds of hinting have not resolved as you would like.
    Since GDI ClearType treats the y-direction as if it were b/w rendering, i.e. without
    any antialiasing in that direction, there may be some situations in which y-direction
    outline deltas are needed. [DWrite ClearType applies y-direction greyscaling in
    combination with x-direction colour antialiasing, so is more forgiving.]\r\n\r\nIt
    is also possible to delta alignment zones, e.g. to pop up or down the x-height
    at a particular size.\r\n\r\nIt is worth pointing out that much depends not only
    on the style of the typeface but also on the writing system. A great example of
    this is the MS Meiryo font, which uses y-direction outline deltas to apply traditional
    stroke reduction techniques to maintain legibility at small sizes."
  created: '2010-06-04 19:51:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This looks very cool Tim!\r\n\r\n>Should I interpolate the upper of lower
    edge of the middle stroke?\r\n\r\nI'd go with the upper, rounding it slightly
    up to grid (\"sround 73\", e.g.) after interpolation.\r\n\r\n>Which endpoints
    work best for the interpolation?\r\n\r\nInterpolation of what? Or, be sure the
    reference points you use have been rounded or interpolated into their final places,
    and then you can use them to locate other points, and then those points can be
    used as references to interpolate as well, if required. \r\n\r\n>It takes quite
    a bit of trying out things so it's probably not much quicker than working delta
    hints.\r\n\r\nWell, delta hinting your way to size independent outline fonts for
    the web is sad, and not likely to last long as this is not only size, but rendering
    dependent. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-04 22:10:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@John: I need to try my hands at this very soon. I\u2019m afraid all my stupid
    questions are driving you guys mad.\r\n\r\nThis looks very good, Tim."
  created: '2010-06-04 23:56:13'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "I kind of hate webfonts\u2026 I just don't think there's enough resolution
    on computer screens for this to work! No amount of anti-aliasing will change that.
    Type is supposed to be black on white, not black with multi-coloured or grey halos
    on white\u2026 why are we forcing this\u2026? Anti-aliased type on screen at small
    sizes, it just doesn't cut it.\r\nI get it, we want to be able to use any typeface
    on our websites; and that's fine and logical and even a bit noble, to allow that
    freedom, but it only works with anti-aliasing turned on and some people (ok, \u201CI\u201D)
    don't want anti-aliased small text on screen and never use it. With no anti-aliasing,
    JAF's menu on the left and the text under the samples looks like some free font
    with uneven stroke widths all around. The same happens, for instance, at FontFeed,
    and SomeRandomDude, which I discovered just the other day, is a mess\u2026 some
    smaller italic texts can't even be read (that's on Chrome, mind you). I don't
    want to be forced to use anti-aliasing to be able to read stuff\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    do really like Herb, though! Gorgeous! And Lapture's nice. And the Facitizer's
    a pretty good idea, despite what I think about the subject.\r\nSorry for the rant.
    :X"
  created: '2010-06-05 12:30:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "rDm>I don't want to be forced to use anti-aliasing to be able to read stuff\u2026\r\n\r\nYou
    are not forced... compelled perhaps. You can make your own style sheets, you can
    turn off other people's fonts, you can compel your browser to use your choice
    and size. \r\n\r\nNevertheless, I hear you stating the obvious, the web text bug
    is a whole lot bigger than the millenium time bomb that didn't even seem to go
    off.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-05 12:50:58'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "John,\r\n<cite>It is also possible to delta alignment zones, e.g. to pop
    up or down the x-height at a particular size.</cite>\r\nThis is something I seriously
    considered (and tried) but in that particular case, it didn't seem to improve
    things.\r\nHowever, I used this tweak: the tips of the ascenders and descenders
    are always rounded towards the baseline, so they tend to get proportionally shorter
    in small sizes. Some kind of primitive optical sizing.\r\n\r\nThanks, David.\r\n<cite>I'd
    go with the upper, rounding it slightly up to grid (\"sround 73\", e.g.) after
    interpolation.</cite>\r\nI did try that but it didn't feel right to me. This is
    a more of stylistic decision: in this particular font, I prefer the middle stroke
    rather a bit too low than too high.\r\n\r\n<cite>Or, be sure the reference points
    you use have been rounded or interpolated into their final places, and then you
    can use them to locate other points, and then those points can be used as references
    to interpolate as well, if required.</cite>\r\nThis is more or less how I did
    it. I found that in some cases, un-rounded points (attached to a rounded point
    with an unrounded single link) can be useful as an endpoint for interpolation."
  created: '2010-06-05 13:43:58'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "I fixed the recursions and many other little things in the Facitizer.\r\n\r\nBtw,
    [[http://bpmysite.com/index.php?q=www.typophile.com%2Fnode%2F71019|this one]]
    works in a similar fashion. Unfortunately, I couldn't get it to work in combination
    with the Facitizer."
  created: '2010-06-05 13:46:45'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\n>Also, I see you are hedging your bets one which spelling of
    \"web font\" wins out.\r\n\r\nWhile I think it's an extremely wise idea for producers
    and customers like for font shops to keep their \"web fonts\" and \"print fonts\"
    separate, unless what I'm trying to say absolutely demands the distinction, I'm
    trying to drop the \"web\" out of \"web fonts\" as much as I can.\r\n\r\nFonts
    are fonts. As time goes on, those charged with design will learn what the screen
    demands and what the printed page demands. \"Web fonts\" invites vaguery. It's
    too broad and can mean too many things.\r\n\r\nHey, I'm just sayin'...\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-05 15:27:59'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: See [[http://www.typophile.com/node/70933|here]], Ruben.
  created: '2010-06-05 15:52:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@tim ahrens\r\n\r\nCongrats on the service and the facitizer.\r\n\r\nIn comparing
    the facitizer to what I recently saw from Extensis - their Type Drawer previewer
    - is there any way to select the blocks of text that you would like to see swapped
    out? (And then, in a true miracle, pop up a set of controls for editing line-height,
    word spacing, etc...?)\r\n\r\nEven so, the facitizer is a nifty marketing device.
    Nice.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-05 15:57:41'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Thanks, Frode. That's really a bit too technical for me, and I think the
    point's being missed. Maybe I'll just create a new thread. Or maybe not, why bother?
    :P\r\n\r\nI'm so sorry for hijacking your thread, Tim; I really do commend the
    efforts shown by JAF, regardless of all this, and I do think the Facitizer is
    great. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I think it's perfect that you're offering your whole collection
    as webfonts and that you're even offering to even work with other fonts; that
    really is what should be done. All fonts should be ready to \u201Cwithstand the
    test of web\u201D \u2013 I'll go further and say \u201Caliased web\u201D \u2013,
    even if they were designed with maybe a newspaper or display applications in mind.
    I also don't think that we should treat typefaces which will be used by \u201Cthe
    common user\u201D in Word or whatever, mainly for printing, as needing less hinting,
    because these people (i.e., my parents) utterly reject the use of better-suited
    typefaces based precisely on what they see on the screen, which sucks unless you're
    using Verdana or Georgia \u2013 and never corresponds to what is then printed
    \u2013 (and we call them WYSIWYG), which then leads to everyone printing everything
    in Verdana at large sizes, since these people sometimes also do not realize that
    there's a zoom control on the program and do not have the sensitivity to imagine
    the page on screen as the final printed page. They just use Word as if they were
    using Notepad and whatever comes out the printer's fine \u2013 this is of the
    responsibility of OS makers and typedesigners alike, because we were trying to
    make things just work and, in a sense, we failed.\r\nIt's actually kind of funny;
    developers created Verdana so that we'd have a great typeface for the screen and
    ignored the need for every typeface to look good on screen, which then leads to
    people assuming that Verdana is the only typeface which you can actually read
    and then writing and printing everything with it, when it was in fact created
    mainly (maybe that's a bit of an overstatement, but still) with the screen in
    mind. They shouldn't have to know that the media are fundamentally different.
    It shouldn't matter.\r\nThen we get historians and graphic designers saying that
    the democratization of text-composing and printing led to a substantial downfall
    in the quality of the printed work. Ironic! That's in some part due to the fact
    that the techniques didn't actually evolve (as in \u201Cweren't developed\u201D)
    into being easy to use and intuitive; in many ways we are actually still using
    metal type, just in a less physically and more mentally/virtually extrapolated
    cumbersome way.\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm just an idealist\u2026 :P\r\nI should stop writing,
    now."
  created: '2010-06-05 17:44:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I think the problem with your comment is you assume forcing delicate shapes
    into a strict pixel grid is a better solution.
  created: '2010-06-05 18:06:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode: <em>...you assume forcing delicate shapes into a strict pixel grid
    is a better solution.</em>\r\n\r\nIn order to judge the quality of a solution,
    it's necessary to understand what the problem is that it tries to solve. Forcing
    \u2018delicate shapes\u2019 into a b/w pixel grid is surely a lousy solution to
    individual typeface fidelity, but it can be an excellent solution to readability
    on screen. Ironically, the more delicate the shapes, the more likely that they
    will be unreadable at low resolution unless they have the delicateness hinted
    out of them and fitted to a grid like a virtual Verdana.\r\n\r\nIt used to be
    the case that hinting was what made screen fonts, and the TT hinting language
    is powerful enough that the typeface design didn't matter a heck of a lot: you
    could take a print media typeface like Times New Roman, ill-suited to screen readability,
    hint the heck out of both outlines and spacing, and get something pretty readable
    on screen. [Indeed, the hinting language is powerful enough that David could make
    Augsburger Initials legible at text sizes on screen. Don't try that with FontLab,
    though.] Non-linear and subpixel antialiasing has killed that approach. It greatly
    improves WYSIMLTIT -- what you see is more like the individual typeface --, but
    at the cost that hints won't get you from a non-screen type to a screen font any
    more. So if you want halfway readable text on screen, you have to start with a
    design for screen. And if you want optimised readability, then you have to start
    with a different design for each size.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-05 19:13:02'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Right. What I mean is more or less what John said: of course it is not a
    better solution if you're the typeface, but it does make for better reading. That's
    sad from our point of view, but unless we successfully lobby computer manufacturers
    and the whole world to up the pixel count and the resolution, that's something
    which seems inescapable, to me.\r\nThe pixel grid will not allow many variations,
    of course; at some point, with a relatively small number of typefaces, you will
    have had all the possible variations on each glyph, since we're talking about
    fixed shapes and a small area of pixels. But that's how it goes, I don't think
    there's any way around it. I don't feel great about sacrificing the identity of
    a typeface either, I don't. I feel you, there. But in the end this isn't about
    the typeface or its designer, it's about the reader and the reading experience.\r\n\r\nDon't
    take me the wrong way, Frode, I didn't mean to criticize anyone. I'm well aware
    that things aren't as simple as I put them. But I've thought about this and don't
    see any other way around it. We can improve the screens and forget hinting forever,
    improve hinting and make do with what's possible, or stick with Verdana, Georgia
    and friends. Right now it's a battle that can't be won. Not at small and medium
    sizes on a pixel grid, anyway.\r\n\r\nBut that's just my silly point of view.
    I'm not trying to revolutionize anything or to end anti-aliasing (I wouldn't if
    I tried, I mean, I'm no one); I'm just stating what seems to be obvious but often
    forgotten or ignored so that it's out there. From what I read I never see this
    acknowledged and accepted. Sometimes it seems as if anti-aliasing is wonderful,
    and I really don't see it. I don't think it is. Again, I mean at small and medium
    sizes. At large sizes, yes, it's great and it works, because then we're talking
    about smoothing which isn't larger than the stroke of the letter itself."
  created: '2010-06-05 20:03:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...unless we successfully lobby computer manufacturers and the whole
    world to up the pixel count and the resolution...</em>\r\n\r\nThe resolution of
    smaller, mobile devices is increasing significantly. The trouble for larger, compuer
    screens is that as resolution goes up the attrition rate also increases. The more
    pixels you squeeze into a screen, the more screens you end up having to junk because
    of dead pixels or other manufacturing failures.\r\n\r\n<em>But in the end this
    isn't about the typeface or its designer, it's about the reader and the reading
    experience.</em>\r\n\r\nAmen.\r\n\r\n<em>We can improve the screens and forget
    hinting forever, improve hinting and make do with what's possible, or stick with
    Verdana, Georgia and friends.</em>\r\n\r\nOr we can design device size and rendering
    environment specific typefaces. In effect, we can do at the outline creation stage
    what we used to do at the hinting stage."
  created: '2010-06-05 21:27:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "No worries, Ruben. I did not take your comments as critizism. I\u2019m not
    sure which way is best. Blackness is not the only factor to effect readability.
    I consider lettershapes and spacing more important, but I\u2019m far from an expert
    in these matters. \r\n\r\nIn some way, our critique is not primarly of webfonts.
    The problem is screen resolution vs. rendering.\r\n\r\nJohn, I\u2019ve been [[http://www.typophile.com/node/70007|experimenting]]
    with size specific design, but my knowledge is really limited."
  created: '2010-06-05 23:49:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frode: <em>Blackness is not the only factor to effect readability. I consider
    lettershapes and spacing more important...</em>\r\n\r\nWhy? \r\n\r\nIf shapes
    and spacing are important to readability -- as they surely are --, then that must
    be for a reason, having to do with how they contribute to word recognition in
    our perceptual and cognitive systems. Shapes in our perceptual field have spatial
    frequency, and changes in stroke density affect spatial frequency as much or more
    than changes in stroke thickness and distanct. This suggests to me that, in reading,
    there is no shape recognition independent of stroke density.\r\n\r\nNow, I think
    it is relevant to this discussion that for many hundreds of years textual communication
    involved media in which sign shape and spacing were inconsistent, not only in
    the inevitable variation in manuscript writing but also through most of the history
    of printing due to uneven inking, worn sorts, etc.. The historical period of near-perfect
    repetition of shapes in printing and the regular repetition of bitmaps on screen
    is very short. But what has always been much more consistent than sign shape --
    until the advent of antialiased text on screen -- is stroke density. So I'm inclined
    to think that stroke density is at least as important as shape and spacing, and
    probably more so. This is why I think ClearType is better than Apple's full fuzz
    rendering, because it does a better job of maintaining perceptual stroke contrast."
  created: '2010-06-06 05:15:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Why?</em>\r\n\r\nAs stated, John, I\u2019m no expert. \r\n\r\n<em>So
    I'm inclined to think that stroke density is at least as important as shape and
    spacing, and probably more so.</em>\r\n\r\nUp to the comma it\u2019s pretty much
    what I said. Basically: They all play their part."
  created: '2010-06-06 05:42:12'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: .
  created: '2010-06-06 10:19:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@frode\r\n\r\n>John, I\u2019ve been experimenting with size specific design,\r\n>but
    my knowledge is really limited.\r\n\r\nZoom is the enemy. If the interface were
    to allow the reader to choose from among a predetermined set of sizes - which
    in most instances is perfectly acceptable and adequate for accessibility -  size
    specific design would be a lot more practical to implement.\r\nBut \"page zoom\"
    has become preferred over \"text zoom\". And with extremely small screen sizes
    like those on mobile browsers and touch interfaces, it's easy to see why it won
    out. No need to give up screen real estate to a resizing widget with a menu, and
    it's the kind of thing that computer algorithms do so well - recalculate. Readers
    might lose out, designers might go nuts, but this is what we've got. The machines
    won this round of the readability wars.\r\nWait, there might be a second round
    on this one.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-06 14:42:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> In effect, we can do at the outline creation stage what we used to do
    at the hinting stage.\r\n\r\nOkay! I demonstrated an antialiased series in Franky
    (which is proofed on some thread here somewhere). \r\nYour turn! You demonstrate
    an aliased quality outline font series. And don't forget the fractional sizes.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-06 20:14:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I was talking about the process for making optimised screen fonts
    then and now: using hints vs using outlines. I didn't mean to imply that screenfonts
    now are going to look the same as screenfonts then. The renderers have changed
    and we don't have the options we used to have. I don't know of a reasonable way
    to make an aliased quality outline font series in a forced antialiasing environment
    such as Windows with CT smoothing enabled. With a carefully chosen UPM value,
    evenly divisible by pixel height, and a squared up outline one could minimise
    outline haze on full pixels at a specific size, but I don't think that technique
    is extendable to a series because the UPM would need to change for each type size
    and that does my head in.\r\n\r\nHere's an example of pseudo-aliased outline designs
    rendered in GDI ClearType. As you can see, even without curves and with the outline
    snapped to a strict grid there is a pale colour fringe due to the way the CT filtering
    works.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aliasedCT_6012.png]"
  created: '2010-06-06 21:58:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Way to go, Tim!
  created: '2010-06-06 22:29:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thinking about pseudo-aliased outline fonts some more:\r\n\r\nThe easiest
    way to produce these at a range of sizes might be to first hint a selected typeface
    for aliased rendering, then use a bitmap striker to create a size instance, then
    tightly trace the bitmap at the target UPM grid. A considerable amount of this
    process can be automated."
  created: '2010-06-07 02:49:53'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "[I've thought before that, if I were a type designer and wanted my typeface
    to work perfectly on screen without losing much of its personality \u2013 and
    it's likely that I would, depending on the uses of the typeface, of course \u2013,
    I'd rather have some format in which I could have not only the outlines but then
    also a bitmap font for every size I wanted that would be called unto action inside
    programs; something could know the height of the glyphs and just use the right
    bitmap font. Hinting seems too complicated, variable and time consuming, I think
    I'd rather draw all the glyphs by hand in various sizes just by clicking specific
    pixels. I'm just saying. :P This is a bit why I did [[http://fontstruct.fontshop.com/fontstructions/show/leiria|Leiria]],
    I loved designing it and I love using it as my Notepad typeface of choice.]"
  created: '2010-06-07 10:55:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "rDm> I'd rather have some format in which I could have not only the outlines
    but then also a bitmap font for every size I wanted...\r\n\r\nLook, you are not
    against antialiasing, just poorly hinted antialised fonts. Hints are perfectly
    capable of delivering screen fonts as good as any bitmap, aliased or antialised
    and you'd not know the difference.\r\n\r\nJH> ...use a bitmap striker to create
    a size instance...\r\n\r\nPerhaps, but if you return to your thread on the MS
    Cleartype white paper, what you'll read from Mr. Hitchcock is that we're only
    given the option (on windows), to turn our size independent hints, or our size
    independent hints greatly compressed by function definitions, into incredibly
    verbose size dependent hints. So normal hints are X, compressed hints are X/2
    and Greg's suggestion for the quality-minded (which includes many millions of
    Windows users besides rDm), is 16-25X. \r\n\r\nSince the appearance of the fonts
    does not change a bit from one hint scheme to the next, the disservice this offers
    is focused on Windows web users, where file size is a factor in the quality of
    experience. I'm told this could get much uglier if I really, really want it to,
    but I've promised to flip a coin when the time comes.:)\r\n\r\nJH> ...there is
    a pale colour fringe due to the way the CT filtering works....\r\n\r\nBut did
    you know, you can diminish this effect by using the type on a yellow background
    ;p.\r\n\r\nRF> Zoom is the enemy. \r\n\r\nAnd all this time, I thought near-ignorance
    (aka a little bit of knowledge), was the enemy. Thanks!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-07 11:55:33'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: Tim, the facitizer -- Brilliant! :)
  created: '2010-06-07 12:34:50'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "So, Ikea took Futura away from us? Just Another Foundry is bringing it back!\r\n\r\nI
    thought that was worth a thread of its own:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/71103\r\n\r\nSorry,
    couldn't resist the tempation. Btw, for the actual Futura fonts, I had to resort
    to Fontdeck."
  created: '2010-06-07 16:06:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I'm not disagreeing with your comments regarding the size impact of
    subpixel oriented hinting, but I'm not sure how relevant they are to what I've
    called pseudo-aliased <em>outline</em> screen fonts. I'm talking about using as
    a source fonts that have been hinted for b/w, aliased, full pixel display, and
    then wrapping size-specific outlines to those pixel patterns at size-specific
    UPM values to minimise fringing (the latter method might also apply to antialised
    size-specific fonts, no?).\r\n\r\nThe <em>ab</em> example in my illustration doesn't
    have any hinting at all. It also has no curves. File size for such a font would
    be pretty minimal for an outline font."
  created: '2010-06-07 17:37:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here's a comparison of, top, 12ppem Georgia aliased; middle, GDI CT'd; bottom,
    pseudo-aliased.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgiacomp_6102.png]\r\n\r\nThere's
    an interesting perceptual effect: the colour in the CT'd rendering is more obvious
    the closer you get to the screen, while the colour fringing in the pseudo-aliased
    is more noticeable at a greater distance and less noticeable at closer range.\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's enough of that.\r\n\r\nPropose: new gasp table version for embedded bitmaps
    in CT environment."
  created: '2010-06-07 18:21:22'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I said to myself, I shouldn\u2019t participate in every rendering thread,
    but this is just getting too interesting.\r\n\r\n<cite>colour fringing in the
    pseudo-aliased is more noticeable</cite> (John)\r\nTrue &ndash; but this <em>also</em>
    happens because of the wrong colors: either yellow color is too bright or blue
    too dark.\r\n\r\nI would say these two colors were made in HSL (HSV) color space,
    because they differ only in Hue (Hue as defined in HSL). Which might lead to conclusion,
    that they differ only in hue, but in reality they do differ in brightness too
    &ndash; although they shouldn\u2019t. And because I see much more blue color fringing
    in the last example, I would say it happened because of this: HSV is not as perfect
    as L*a*b*. As explained on Wikipedia: <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSV_color_space#Disadvantages\">Disadvantages</a>.\r\n\r\nTim:
    :-D\r\n\r\nedit: Previous reasoning is correct if we assume that stems are exactly
    in the grid. I also see the same effect in \"ab\" example, which does have \"outline
    snapped to a strict grid\"."
  created: '2010-06-07 19:17:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Miha, in both pseudo-aliased examples, the outlines were snapped to a strict
    grid. For editing ease, I set the UPM to 1200, so that for my 12ppem sizes I would
    have a grid in units of 100.\r\n\r\nI don't know much about colour space issues.
    I became a type designer because I didn't want to deal with colour, and figured
    that after 550 years of blackish ink on whiteish paper type wasn't about to change.
    :(\r\n\r\nThe illustrations were made on Windows Vista, from inside the FontLab
    TT hint preview window, presumably using the system standard sRGB colour space."
  created: '2010-06-07 19:37:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Screenshot of a different kind:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgiaphoto_4285.png]"
  created: '2010-06-07 19:50:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "And full pixel zoom:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgiazoomfull_4567.png]"
  created: '2010-06-07 19:55:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm trying to get a subpixel zoom image too, but Zoomin keeps crashing when
    I turn on subpixel display.
  created: '2010-06-07 19:58:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> I'm not sure how relevant [subpixel oriented hinted fonts] are to what
    I've called pseudo-aliased outline  screen fonts. \r\n\r\n\"Pseudo-aliased outline\"
    screen fonts seem to me a subset of the weight range of subpixel oriented hinted
    fonts. I.E. where the weights (of Franky e.g.) are whole pixels, pseudo-aliased
    outlines result.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-08 00:35:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>\"Pseudo-aliased outline\" screen fonts seem to me a subset of
    the weight range of subpixel oriented hinted fonts. I.E. where the weights (of
    Franky e.g.) are whole pixels, pseudo-aliased outlines result.</em>\r\n\r\nSomething
    like pseudo-aliased outlines may occur as a natural subset of subpixel oriented
    hinted (SPOH) fonts, but there are a couple of differences between the approaches.
    In the SPOH fonts, at least as demonstrated by Franky, you are working with curves
    and diagonals, so the pseudo-aliasing only applied to vertical and horizontal
    stem positioning: rounded and diagonal features are fully antialiased. In a P-A
    font, all outlines are wrapped to full pixel boundaries, with no curves or diaognals,
    hence no intentional antialiasing. The colour fringing is an unwanted artefact
    of the particular rendering method's colour filtering, not antialiasing in the
    typical sense of font smoothing. Finally, while some weights of SPOH fonts may
    behave in ways very similar to P-A fonts, i.e. when those weights correspond to
    full pixels, in P-A fonts every size and weight would be fitted to full pixels
    (made possible by modifying the UPM at each size).\r\n\r\nBy the way, I'm not
    advocating P-A fonts, and think there's a lot more mileage in your SPOH approach,
    but you challenged me to \u2018demonstrate an aliased quality outline font series\u2019.
    I'm not going to sit down and built such a series, but I think I've demonstrated
    the method that would get us as close as the colour filtering artefacts permit.
    The possibly cool aspects of the method are being able to automate outline creation
    from size strikes of aliased bitmaps from all those fonts we spent so much time
    hinting for b/w rendering, and modifying the UPM for each size font to avoid rounding
    of the grid. The latter technique could also be applied to SPOH fonts."
  created: '2010-06-08 03:25:10'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Wow &ndash; these are very cool screenshots, John.\r\n\r\nSo, the outlines
    were snapped to a strict grid, which means that RGB values of yellow (on the left
    of the stem) and blue (on the right) are really supposed to be symmetrical, according
    to ClearType.\r\n\r\nAs said before, if we see the HSL values of these two colors,
    they differ only in Hue. But if we convert it to another color model which has
    more accurate model of how human eye perceives color, we notice the colors are
    actually more different then they should be.\r\n\r\nSo, what is actually the criticism?\r\n\r\nColors
    fringing is not the same. It is darker/more visible on the right of the stems
    (or less dark on the left). This also explains why I was sometimes more bothered
    with blue color than red in ClearType, but I always thought it is just practical
    limitation of some variable on my side, and not theoretical. (I say this for black
    text on white, for other colors it could be different!)\r\n\r\nBut &hellip; there
    are also limitations of such color corrections. They are more computationally
    intensive, maybe much too much for the small difference they make.  And maybe
    more important, they could make CT rendering less accurate, more blurry, and with
    less contrast. Unfortunately, it is hard to test to what extend is this true.\r\n\r\nActually,
    the more I think about it more complicated it seems."
  created: '2010-06-09 10:05:58'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "There is also a very nice coincidence \u2013 I\u2019ve been experimenting
    with different renderings of Georgia too, since Ruben (rubenDmarkes) posted his
    comments. The last example is mine:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/georgia2_5802.png]\r\nIt
    is hand-made and this is why there are pure black pixels. I tried to do some AA,
    but not too much. Of course, text setting would be nice but I probably won\u2019t
    be able to do it anytime soon."
  created: '2010-06-09 10:16:01'
date: '2010-06-03 21:21:24'
title: Just Another Foundry introduces web font service

---
