---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "It\u2019s from Minion Pro, dumped with TTX<strong>N</strong>:\r\n\r\n         <code>lookup
  frac_DFLT_dflt_2 {\r\n            sub [eight.numerator five.numerator four.numerator
  nine.numerator one.numerator\r\n                  seven.numerator six.numerator
  three.numerator two.numerator\r\n                  zero.numerator]\r\n               [space
  uni00A0]' ;\r\n                C sub space by space.frac;\r\n                C sub
  uni00A0 by uni00A0.frac;\r\n         } frac_DFLT_dflt_2;</code>\r\n\r\n\"C sub\"?
  (A working) TTXN would be cool, because when you have to fix a bug in the features
  of a font, you cannot really trust in FontLab, because it interprets the GSUB table
  likewise. After removing the GSUB tags, it should be possible to use the dumped
  table as feature file with makeotf (belongs to the AFDKO).\r\n\r\nTTXN does not
  seem to be able to store the classes, but puts the character lists directly into
  the features. That\u2019s not a bug, but should be fixed likewise.\r\n\r\nAnd TTXN
  does sometimes not include, by which character/class something shall be replaced
  (End of code: \"zero.numerator]' ;\"):\r\n\r\n<code>lookup frac_DFLT_dflt_5 {\r\n
  \           sub [cent.denominator comma.denominator dollar.denominator eight.denominator\r\n
  \                 five.denominator fiveeighths four.denominator fraction hyphen.denominator\r\n
  \                 nine.denominator one.denominator oneeighth onehalf onequarter
  onethird\r\n                  parenleft.denominator parenright.denominator period.denominator\r\n
  \                 seven.denominator seveneighths six.denominator slash.frac\r\n
  \                 three.denominator threeeighths threequarters two.denominator twothirds\r\n
  \                 uni2215 zero.denominator]\r\n               [cent.numerator comma.numerator
  dollar.numerator eight.numerator\r\n                  five.numerator four.numerator
  hyphen.numerator nine.numerator\r\n                  one.numerator parenleft.numerator
  parenright.numerator period.numerator\r\n                  seven.numerator six.numerator
  three.numerator two.numerator\r\n                  zero.numerator]' ;</code>"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Maybe you should add it to the bug tracker at SourceForge.\r\n\r\nhttp://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=29196&atid=395372"
  created: '2010-06-06 09:58:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Andreas\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not included in FontTools. TTXN is different from
    TTX. The options are the same, but it is a separate Python file. It seems to be
    developed by Adobe."
  created: '2010-06-06 11:03:57'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I don\u2019t know anything about Python, but I assume, that the problem with
    the \"C sub \u2026\" is located at the following lines in TTXN.py:\r\n\r\n<code>ChainINDENT
    = INDENT + \" C \"</code>\r\n\r\nMay it be, that not the character \"C\" was meant,
    but a control character?\r\n\r\nAnd the other problem may be located here, although
    there are more lines like that:\r\n\r\n<code>rule = \"sub %s %s' %s by \" % (backTxt,
    inputTxt, lookAheadTxt)</code>\r\n\r\n%s seems to be a placeholder for the variables
    (?) in the parentheses.\r\n\r\nIn contradiction to other lines, in which anything
    is substituted there is no placeholder after the word by.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    want to try to correct anything in code, that I don\u2019t understand. But I assume,
    it is not so difficult to fix these bugs. But maybe there are more bugs, which
    I have not yet discovered.\r\n\r\n-----------\r\n\r\nI wish, more of you would
    use the AFDKO instead of FontLab for generating the features. I mean, I am amateur,
    but there seem to be many professionals on the forum, that use FontLab for the
    OT features. But the AFDKO is really cool and as more people find those bugs,
    as easier it is, to improve the AFDKO."
  created: '2010-06-06 13:28:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "You can also generate the feature file with FontForge. PC users can use <a
    href=\"http://www.geocities.jp/meir000/fontforge\"><strong>fontforge-mingw</strong></a>,
    a self contained  binary  (cf http://www.typophile.com/node/71038). Mac users
    can install FontForge with <a href=\"http://pdb.finkproject.org/pdb/browse.php?summary=fontforge\"><strong>Fink</strong></a>
    (binary) or  Macports (requires compiling).\r\n\r\nOn the mac I dot it with a
    script; doing the same on the PC is more tricky and I  won't have access to that
    machine before wednesday and I tried just once, to check.  I'll thus just say
    how to do it with the graphical interface. After opening the font.\r\n\r\nYou
    click \"Element > Font Info\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontinfo_6600.jpg]\r\n\r\nYou
    then click \"Lookups\", <strong>right click</strong> on a feature and click on
    \"Save Lookup...\" to save the feature file for that lookup. You click on \"Save
    Feature File...\" to save the full feature file of that font.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/savefeatures_3773.jpg]"
  created: '2010-06-06 13:30:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thanks, Michel!\r\n\r\nA few months ago, I already wanted to install FontForge.
    It is not yet installed. What is true for the AFDKO, is also true for FontForge.
    More people should try it. I will do."
  created: '2010-06-06 13:33:22'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I think, I could make out, where the problem is, if I do the follwing:\r\n\r\nWhen
    I replace this\r\n\r\nrule = \"sub %s %s' %s by \" % (backTxt, inputTxt, lookAheadTxt)\r\n\r\nby
    this\r\n\r\nrule = \"sub %s backTxt %s' inputTxt %s lookAheadTxt by \" % (backTxt,
    inputTxt, lookAheadTxt)\r\n\r\nI probably can make out, which rule in the Python
    code is responsible for which decompiled sub rule."
  created: '2010-06-06 14:28:12'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>Thanks, Michel!</cite>\r\n\r\nWelcome. And I should try Volt. I would
    have if it had been available for OS X (or X Windows on Unix). For me, Microsoft
    Windows is the last resort."
  created: '2010-06-06 15:11:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Arno,\r\n\r\nAs was noted in the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/70841\">Calibri
    kerning</a> thread and in <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/71068#comment-414569\">John
    Hudson's comment</a> in the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/71068\">Checking
    Kerning Pairs in fonts</a> thread, ttx does not output all a kern subtable when
    it overflows.\r\n\r\nHere is a patch for the file <code>_k_e_r_n.py</code>. \r\n<code>\r\n<p>34c34,35</p>\r\n<p>&lt;
    \t\t\t\tversion, length = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HH\", data[:4])</p>\r\n<p>---</p>\r\n<p>&gt;
    \t\t\t\tversion, length, coverage, nPairs = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HHHH\", data[:8])</p>\r\n<p>&gt;
    \t\t\t\tif ((self.version == 0.0) &amp; (length &lt; 14+6*nPairs)): length = 14+6*nPairs
    # Undocumented hack</p>\r\n</code>\r\nIf I apply it, I get all kerning pairs of
    Calibri's <code>kern</code> table with ttx and ttxn. \r\n\r\nI have no time to
    check if this is ok or not for all possible cases. If you want to have a look
    at that, that would be great.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-06 16:18:35'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Michel\r\n\r\n<cite>34c34, 35</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes this mean, that I shall
    replace line 34 by the other line and add a new line above the line, that is actually
    line 35?\r\n\r\nThis\r\n\r\n<code>version, length = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HH\",
    data[:4])\r\nlength = int(length)</code>\r\n\r\nshall be replaced by?:\r\n\r\n<code>version,
    length, coverage, nPairs = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HHHH\", data[:8])\r\nif ((self.version
    == 0.0) & (length &lt; 14+6*nPairs)): length = 14+6*nPairs # Undocumented hack\r\nlength
    = int(length)</code>\r\n\r\n<cite>I have no time to check if this is ok or not
    for all possible cases. If you want to have a look at that, that would be great.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t know, how to check all possible cases. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/70841\">The
    Calibri kerning thread</a> looks complicated. I feel, that I miss theory about
    these overfloating (?) tables and sub tables. I could compare dumps of some system
    fonts with the original and the unpached kern.py. Most of the new MS systems fonts
    are not installed here (except from Consolas), but I think, I have them somewhere.\r\n\r\nEdited\r\n\r\nI
    replaced it now in the way described in this post, but I get an error. Obviously
    I did replace the wrong code. I would try it again, if you explain a bit more
    precisely, what shall be replaced by what.\r\n\r\nAnd I found the Windows 7 system
    fonts. Calibri 5.62 is the latest version, that I have here.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    since this is another TTX bug, we maybe should ask a moderator to move the discussion."
  created: '2010-06-06 17:40:10'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Okay, I tried it again and now it seems to work.\r\n\r\nI replaced\r\n\r\n<code>version,
    length = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HH\", data[:4])\r\nlength = int(length)</code>\r\n\r\nby\r\n\r\n<code>version,
    length, coverage, nPairs = struct.unpack(\"&gt;HHHH\", data[:8])</code>\r\n<strong><code>length
    = int(length)</code></strong>\r\n<code>if ((self.version == 0.0) & (length &lt;
    14+6*nPairs)): length = 14+6*nPairs # Undocumented hack</code>\r\n\r\nand get
    26706 pairs.\r\n\r\nDid I replace it correctly this time?\r\n\r\ncalibri.ttx:
    26706\r\ncambriab.ttx: 31738\r\ncambriai.ttx: 36452\r\ncambriaz.ttx: 35714\r\nconstan.ttx:
    36740\r\nconstanb.ttx: 36573\r\nconstani.ttx: 38688\r\nconstanz.ttx: 38417\r\n\r\nBut
    this was probably not the check, for which you have asked (all possible cases).\r\n\r\nEdited\r\n\r\nSomething
    very odd has just happened here: I had decompiled the kern tables of the fonts
    above only. And then I have merged them back (likewise with TTX). The checksums
    are the same as the ones of the original fonts. And the digital signatures are
    valid! That\u2019s very odd!"
  created: '2010-06-06 18:35:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I was indeed replacing line 34 with two lines, 34 and 35, with the same indentation
    as old line 34, i.e. the <code>if</code> of line 35 is aligned with <code>version</code>
    of line 34 (which remains where it was). Here is how it looked on the screen with
    the proper indentation.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/diff_4804.jpg]\r\nI
    have an old version of Calibri with a different number of pairs. The one you get
    is the one John Hudson says there is. You thus got the right number. The funny
    thing is indeed that if you run ttx on the resulting file, it gives you back the
    big kerning table. You can see it with DTL OTMaster Light.\r\n\r\nWhat worries
    me is the specs, that I don't want to read, and I did not check either what struct.unpack
    actually does."
  created: '2010-06-06 20:40:10'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Sorry, it is not \"overfloat\" but \"overflow\". According to http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/kern.htm,
    the kern table starts with two fields that are USHORT, the first containing a
    version number, the second the number of subtables. USHORT is a 16 bit unsigned
    short interger, and thus may be from 0 to 2**16-1, i.e. from 0 to  65535. Then
    follow the subtables, each starting with the fields version, length and coverage,
    which are also USHORT. The definition of the field \"length\" is \"Length of the
    subtable, in bytes (including this header).\" That means that the value of the
    length field may be from 0 to 65535, and thus the subtable may take at most 65535
    \ bytes, else it \"overflows\". Of course, a subtable with 26706 kerning pairs,
    each taking 6 bytes, gives much more than the alloted 65535 bytes. It seems someone
    has done a \"theological reinterpretation\" of the specs. I'd like to see it in
    some \"official\" written text.\r\n\r\nAdded: if in the spec they replaced \"Length
    of the subtable, in bytes (including this header).\" with \"Length of the subtable
    modulo 65536, in bytes ...\", with some explanations, I would like it better."
  created: '2010-06-06 21:25:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I was indeed replacing line 34 with two lines, 34 and 35, with the
    same indentation as old line 34, i.e. the if of line 35 is aligned with version
    of line 34 (which remains where it was). Here is how it looked on the screen with
    the proper indentation.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s odd, because it did not work
    here. I will check that again."
  created: '2010-06-06 22:11:43'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Michel\r\n\r\nQuoting myself: <cite>I will check that again.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    obviously made a mistake in my first attempt yesterday. The replacement, as it
    was explained by you, is working."
  created: '2010-06-07 08:28:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<strong>Back to the bug in TTXN</strong>\r\n\r\nThere is a bug in the lines
    above line 1235. At least two of the variables backTxt, inputTxt, lookAheadTxt
    are not correctly defined. And maybe the word \"by\" is missing.\r\n\r\nAnd the
    other bug is in in line 111 (ChainINDENT = INDENT + \" C \").\r\n\r\nI am not
    competent to fix that. And it is so obviously, that there is a problem with the
    part of TTXN, which is responsible for the features, that I assume, there are
    more bugs.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-07 11:20:26'
- author:
    name: Read Roberts
  body: "Hi Arno;\r\n\r\nI am not about to fix this particular problem, because ttxn
    is not meant for making a compile-able font - it is meant only to help compare
    different versions of basically the same font, and has output features that work
    against what you want. (see below). \r\n\r\nYou have lots of company in the desire
    for a tool that will decompile GPOS and GSUB tables to something directly usable.
    In the long run, I do plan to add this ability to 'spot'. In the short term -
    the next several months - the only path to what you want with the FDK tools is
    use the \"spot -t GPOS=7\" or \"spot -t GSUB=7\" commands, and then expect to
    do a lot of manual editing. \r\n\r\nWhat 'ttxn' is about is producing a text dump
    of a font, that makes it easy to compare two different versions of a font. The
    idea is that you use ttxn to do a text dump of each of the two versions, and you
    use a text comparison tool, like the \"Search for Differences..\" in BBedit.It
    is useful only for relatively small differences, such as you get with most bug
    fixes. If you have just added a few glyphs, or corrected a few paths, or tweaked
    some kern values, or fixed some GPOS and GSUB differences, then ttxn is great
    for confirming that what you think you fixed did in fact change, and - just as
    important! -  that nothing else changed. \r\n\r\nWhat makes ttxn more interesting
    than other tools which make text dump of fonts is that ttxn tries to remove all
    the things that make fonts look different inside, but have no functional consequences.
    For example, glyph order is normalized to alphabetic in all places where you see
    a list of glyphs. In the feature file, I tried to flatten all the different ways
    in which you can express a particular functional idea to the simplest common denominator.
    So, lookup order is important, but language system order or offset or whether
    coverage tables are shared aren't.\r\n\r\nIn the case that you report, the \"by
    <class list>\" is missing from the end of the contextual rule,  and is instead
    replaced by a series of simple substitution rules, prefixed by \"C\", which comprise
    the set of simple substitutions which are applied to the contextual target string.The
    first 'C' rule is applied to the first glyph in the input string, the second to
    the second glyph in the input string, and so on. I did it this way just as a matter
    of expediency - it was easier, given the several different paths by which you
    end up with the secondary lookup tables - and I wasn't thinking about making a
    compile-able output.\r\n\r\nAll that said, feel free to re-purpose the tool as
    you want - just give the variant a different name. If you are in doubt about just
    what is going to happen as a result of a given edit, just try and see. You can
    always check that you are getting what you want out of your fonts."
  created: '2010-06-08 01:53:48'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Read Roberts\r\n\r\nThank you!\r\n\r\n<cite>All that said, feel free to
    re-purpose the tool as you want - just give the variant a different name.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    would require, that I understand Python. I am probably not going to try re-purposing
    ttxn.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s the best place for reporting bugs or proposing new functions
    of the AFDKO?\r\n\r\nWhen will the next version of the AFDKO be released?"
  created: '2010-06-08 08:27:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Michel\r\n\r\nI have exported the features of a font with Fontforge-mingw
    now, but I was searching for a tool, that rebuilds the feature file as close as
    possible to the original file with the syntax as it is required by the AFDKO and
    with classes outside the features \u2013 the same output, as you get it, if you
    export the features with FontLab, but without the FontLab bugs."
  created: '2010-06-08 09:29:58'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'I have never "massaged" feature files exported by FontForge and I don''t
    use FontLab (all I have is a demo version). As for using FontForge''s fea output
    in AFDKO, I think that is what John Hudson wanted to do after this post: http://typophile.com/node/69658.
    From a subsequent message, I understand John had a bug in some .fea file and a
    little afterwards  was posted a message concerning a bug that had been corrected
    in makeotf http://typophile.com/node/70019. My guess is that the match is not
    perfect yet though these posts may not be related...'
  created: '2010-06-08 12:28:53'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Arno: <em>[...] a tool, that rebuilds the feature file as close as possible
    to the original file with the syntax as it is required by the AFDKO [...]</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the <em>Export...</em> function in OTM (Light) is useful?"
  created: '2010-06-08 16:35:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Michel, to my my knowledge those two posts are not related.\r\n\r\nThe feature
    syntax extracted from the FontForge source turned out to have a number of bugs
    (identified for me by Karsten Leucke), which caused makeotf to fail. When these
    were fixed, makeotf worked fine. The question I was left with was whether FontForge
    would compile the feature code with these syntax errors, but since I didn't need
    an answer to that question to complete my project, I didn't pursue it. The feature
    code was part of an open source FontForge file, so unless there were a disconnect
    between that source and the shipping version of that font, perhaps FontForge is
    more forgiving of syntax errors than makeotf."
  created: '2010-06-08 18:26:26'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Frank\r\n\r\nOTMaster is useful. But for me it is easier to fix the bugs
    in the feature file exported by FontLab. FontLab rebuilds the classes, OTMaster
    doesn\u2019t. I loose the overview in feature files, that were exported by OTMaster.
    The problem with FontLab is, that the (de)compiler is old. (Which version of the
    AFDKO decompiler is built in FontLab? It is the AFDKO decompiler, isn\u2019t it?)"
  created: '2010-06-08 18:53:31'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ John Hudson\r\n\r\nIt is not clear what version of FontForge were you using,
    but there were indeed a number of bugs in feature file generation (and application)
    code that I reported and was fixed in the last release, not sure if those are
    the bugs you encountered, but if you can elaborate more, I can try reporting any
    remaining bugs."
  created: '2010-06-09 08:08:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nthere is no \"AFDKO decompiler\". As Read Roberts (the principal
    developer of AFDKO) mentioned above, the ability to fully decompile binary OpenType
    Layout tables into feature definitions in AFDKO syntax isn't part of AFDKO. \r\n\r\nSeveral
    products allow partial decompilation into syntax that is fully or mostly compatible
    with AFDKO: \r\n\u2014\_the Adobe FDK for OpenType itself (in the spot and ttxn
    tools, but the output is only partially compatible with the strict AFDKO syntax)\r\n\u2014\_FontLab
    Studio 5 (but this is based on the AFDKO version 1.6 syntax, not the new 2.5 syntax,
    since FLS5 includes the AFDKO version 1.6 compiler)\r\n\u2014 FontForge (which
    uses syntax mostly compatible with AFDKO, but uses its own code to compile from
    the syntax into binary tables)\r\n\u2014 DTL OTMaster (which does decompile into
    AFDKO 2.5 syntax, but in a way that I find somewhat difficult to read)\r\n\r\nIn
    addition, FontLab Studio 5 includes an AFDKO-to-VOLT syntax converter, but it\u2019s
    not quite perfect. Also, the Font-TTF package written in Perl by Martin Hosken
    includes a ttf2volt decompiler (which also works on .otf fonts despite its name)
    and a volt2ttf compiler, which use the VOLT syntax, but also only have partial
    support. \r\n\r\nSo, there are two principal syntaxes for defining OpenType Layout
    features support: AFDKO and VOLT. There are two \"full compilers\", i.e. AFDKO
    and VOLT themselves. There are two \"partial compilers\" (FontForge for the AFDKO
    syntax, and volt2ttf for the VOLT syntax). And there are several partial decompilers,
    but none that would support the formats fully. There is even a partial AAT-to-AFDKO
    syntax decompiler (in FontLab Studio), but none that would do the reverse thing.
    \r\n\r\nThere is one partial AFDKO-to-VOLT converter (in FLS5), and there is no
    direct VOLT-to-AFDKO converter. Conversion can, however, be done using the binary
    tables as an intermediary (i.e. compile from one syntax, then decompile into another).
    But since all the decompilers are partial, the conversion is not hassle-free.
    \r\n\r\nOf course, we at FontLab are working towards the goal of being able to
    complete these tasks better. I hope that Read Roberts can help us here by writing
    a fully-featured decompiler into the AFDKO syntax that would become part of the
    standard AFDKO distribution, and could be integrated into font development tools
    that incorporate the AFDKO libraries. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd."
  created: '2010-06-16 12:27:06'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thanks, Adam!\r\n\r\nDo you have a list of problems with FontLab, if it tries
    to decompile fonts, that were built with the AFDKO 2.5? A way, how the user can
    identify problems, that are caused by the changes of the syntax? A comparison
    of input Makeotf and output FontLab?\r\n\r\nThis is from NewFeatureSyntaxIn2.5.txt:\r\n\r\n#
    Examples of new feature file syntax for FDK 2.5\r\n# Oct 21 2008\r\n\r\n# languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;\r\n# stand-alone lookup: definded outside of a feature block\r\n# Names
    for stylistic set features\r\n# Multiple substitution\r\n# Reverse chaining substitution\r\n#
    Contextual chaining substitution with explicit lookup references\r\n# Named anchor
    and named value record\r\n# Cursive adjustment\r\n# Mark adjustments\r\n# Contextual
    chaining positioning \r\n# GDEF table definition"
  created: '2010-06-16 14:31:28'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@twardoch \r\n\r\n<cite>There are two \"partial compilers\" (FontForge for
    the AFDKO syntax, and volt2ttf for the VOLT syntax).</cite>\r\n\r\nTo the best
    of my knowledge, FontForge even supports the documented-but-not-yet-implemented
    parts of adobe's feature file syntax. I'd like to know about what is not implemented
    in FontForge to qualify it for a \"partial compiler\"."
  created: '2010-06-16 18:02:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Khaled, \r\n\r\nI think my point of being \"partial\" is that George does
    not claim to support the AFDKO syntax per se, but is using a syntax that is \"almost
    identical\". As far as I remember reading the docs. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying it's
    a bad thing, it's just not AFDKO. "
  created: '2010-06-16 22:23:14'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: OK, it was a genuine question, since I intend to use feature files as an exchange
    format, but I don't have regular access to non-linux machines to actually test
    with AFDKO, so I was interested in knowing any "known" incompatibilities.
  created: '2010-06-17 11:53:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here is a copy-paste from http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/featurefile.html.
    This is what George Williams says about it (or at least about the specs)\r\n\r\n<strong>Major
    differences between FontForge's and Adobe's interpretation of feature files</strong>\r\n\r\nNot
    really any, any more. Except that FontForge supports much of the syntax which
    adobe documents but does not support. Adobe continues to reserve the right to
    change the syntax of anything they do not currently support.\r\n\r\nIn November
    2008 Adobe made radical changes to the feature file format. This meant that my
    extensions were no longer needed. It also as an incompatible change from the earlier
    format. FontForge should (still) be able to parse files written in the earlier
    format, as well as files written in the new format. It will only produce files
    in the new format now (actually there is a compile time flag which will revert
    output to the old format, but I haven't tested it).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-17 12:23:15'
date: '2010-06-06 07:55:45'
title: Bug in TTXN (belongs to the AFDKO)

---
