---
author:
  name: nina
  picture: 111699
body: "I'm currently working out the design of a German-language scholarly volume
  that quotes some texts from the 17th century. Now some of those quotations contain
  historically typical doubled hyphens (see <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_hyphen\">Wikipedia
  entry on double hyphen</a>). \r\nIn their transcriptions of quotes/citations/titles,
  the authors have opted to represent this by using an equal sign (\"=\") in place
  of the hyphen:\r\n\r\nDie in einem der Texte enthaltene Anspielung auf den 1599
  in Leipzig erschienenen <em>Gem\xFCths=Spiegel</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nI am doubting this
  is a good idea \u2013 mainly because the hyphen essentially <em>is</em> a hyphen,
  and its doubled form just a historical stylistic variant of the same base character;
  whereas the equal sign actually <em>means</em> something else. The \"=\" of course
  (and especially to typographic laymen, I guess) <em>looks</em> closer to the original
  than a single hyphen, but I wonder if it doesn't actually twist the original <em>more</em>.
  \r\n\r\nAlternately, it looks like the double hyphen actually has a codepoint (U+2E17).
  It is however not present in the font that I'm looking at for this. I wonder if
  its usage here would be imperative.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have experience or opinions
  on this? I will see the editors in a couple of days, but I'd love some opinions
  from the typographic side. Thanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "The authors \u201Ctranscribed\u201D the blackletter into roman letterforms.
    So I think it\u2019s okay to use a normal roman, single hyphen instead of the
    doubled. Maybe you can choose a typeface with a slightly angular one."
  created: '2010-06-06 19:46:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thank you Indra. That sure seems a good angle.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Maybe you can
    choose a typeface with a slightly angular one.\"</cite>\r\nHmm\u2026 why?"
  created: '2010-06-06 20:41:26'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I think this is an interesting question. Also because these old texts would
    include both character and grammar that is different from the current one. The
    long s for instance is not being used anymore except for the ligature \xDF. Would
    you keep the long s or use the modern version. Is Historical/period accuracy the
    most important or the current relevance of the text (using the text but updating
    the grammar and the form). My opinion is that it is nice to take into account
    the fact that a text is historical, but one shouldn't take it too far. In my view
    the content is the most important thing, and the form can help to make the content
    more understandable/readable. Using old text from the same language is a bit the
    same as using foreign language texts: it needs translation to be understandable
    for most readers.\r\n\r\nAs for the short answer: I would use a single hyphen,
    as it does not structurally alter the content of the text, and minimizes the confusion
    a double hyphen might cause."
  created: '2010-06-07 09:14:18'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "<cite>\"Maybe you can choose a typeface with a slightly angular one.\"\r\nHmm\u2026
    why?</cite>\r\n\r\nCause those are verly clearly hyphens and not dashes and it
    resembles the angular double hyphen as shown on your wikipedia example."
  created: '2010-06-08 07:46:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ahok. Cheers!\r\n\r\nJeffrey \u2013 how close they want/need to stay to the
    original is exactly a question I'll have to discuss with them too. I think how
    one weighs this depends a lot on the \xABscholarliness\xBB of the publication
    \u2013 in this case, being true to historical sources is crucial; but I'm beginning
    to suspect that orthotypography (if not orthography) can be \xABupdated\xBB (which
    would speak in favor of a normal hyphen). Anyway I'll report back :)"
  created: '2010-06-08 08:59:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Can you just add a double-hyphen to the font? I guess that depends on the
    font in question and its license, of course. I added a bunch of characters for
    the transcription of medieval Latin to a font recently, and the double hyphen
    was one of the glyphs the client wanted to have.
  created: '2010-06-08 09:46:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Yeah, I just checked and it should be OK (after written consent from the
    foundry). It's great to know that if the client wants one I could make one.\r\nInteresting
    to hear that your client insisted on the double. Was this also on the grounds
    of staying true to the original source? "
  created: '2010-06-08 09:58:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I am not really up on this level of scholarship, I must admit. But I have
    been told that, in academic texts, old texts being discussed are now transcribed,
    not translated or converted. So in the case of medieval Latin or older German
    (in Fraktur, to boot\u2026), at text will be transcribed exactly from the image
    into the same typeface as the article (or whatever typeface the author/editor/typesetter/etc)
    have chosen for transcription. This means that the font(s) for the article/book/etc
    must have every glyph that needs to be transcribed. I guess that (certain?) scholars
    view the double-hyphen as being unique. Certainly Latin abbreviations are not
    written out when you transcribe.\r\n\r\nI hope to have images of the project I'm
    talking about by the end of the month. I'm sort of interested to see how it all
    worked."
  created: '2010-06-08 10:50:57'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Did the original font have \u2018single hyphens\u2019, alongside the \u2018double
    hyphens\u2019, used for different purposes? I guess not. A hyphen is a hyphen.\r\nWould
    you add diamond-shaped dots to your font because the original featured those?
    If not, why? Because the diamond-shaped dot has no Unicode point? Hardly. A transcription
    is not a facsimile.\r\n\r\nI must admit that I do like Dan\u2019s suggestion of
    having a double hyphen, though."
  created: '2010-06-08 11:03:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, I assume that transcribed texts are separated from the main body text
    in documents like this. So you would never confuse the two. So it would be ok
    for the hyphens in one section to be doubled, whereas they would otherwise be
    single.\r\n\r\nOf course, the transcribed text will likely have lots of other
    weird glyph in it, too. And be in an archaic language. "
  created: '2010-06-08 11:26:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\" A transcription is not a facsimile.\r\nI must admit that I do like
    Dan\u2019s suggestion of having a double hyphen, though.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI must
    say I agree with both of these sentiments. \r\nMy client would be OK with a normal
    hyphen, but was very happy when I proposed to make a double hyphen, so I might
    just go for that. There's also the fun of making an extra glyph. :-)\r\n\r\nBTW
    there is an original transcription (of a manuscript) in this book and it's very
    tricky to typeset \u2013 a text genre that definitely breaks \xABnormal\xBB conventions;
    for example all the characters that aren't actually in the manuscript but were
    added by the editor (to amend archaic abbreviations etc) are italicized, so you
    get lots of Roman/Ital breaks within words even. Kerning fun!"
  created: '2010-06-08 14:15:02'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Dan, maybe you can share some pix of the project you mentioned when it's
    out? Always interesting to see \xABuncommon\xBB glyphs in use.\r\n\r\nDesign question
    \u2013 do you people think it's OK to angle the double hyphen even when the standard
    hyphen is flat? (Feel free to yell at me if you think I should take this to Critique.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/doublehyphen_5640.png]\r\nTo
    my eyes this looks quite fitting indeed (I'm glad I'm not using a Garalde) but
    I'm still so much of a learner."
  created: '2010-06-08 19:57:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Hate to kill the fun, but this looks rather mannered and unfitting to me. '
  created: '2010-06-08 20:19:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Nina, of course I will share photos once I can! I am already shivering with
    anticipation to see the results myself. Anyway, here are two images similar to
    your text\u2026 one with the standard hyphen, and the other with the double hyphen.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/double-hyphen-test_5849.gif]"
  created: '2010-06-08 20:32:07'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "For reference \u2013 here are a few non-blackletter double hyphens:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/2483178465/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Comm_4378.jpg]</a>Store
    front lettering, Leipzig\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/2548132833/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Oels_5348.jpg]</a>Bold
    serif caps on memorial plaque, Braunschweig *\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/2483162651/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DIN_4853.jpg]</a>DIN
    street signs, Leipzig\r\n\r\n*) In case you wonder about the very low position
    here, note that this once was <em>en vogue</em> for single hyphens, too \u2013
    cf. <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/frankfrei/3900311180/\">this photo
    by Fritz Gr\xF6gel</a>."
  created: '2010-06-08 21:30:09'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting to see those flat double hyphens. Hmm. \r\nFor some reason it
    looks like (\xABnormal\xBB whiteletter) fonts that support U+2E17 tend to have
    it at an angle (see <a href=\"http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/2E17/fontsupport.htm\">here</a>),
    except when they have strange wiggly designs (I wonder where that came from).\r\nLooking
    at Dan's examples, I can't help but feel the angle on the doubled one is really
    really nice, also when the single is flat. Maybe also because it's closer to the
    blackletter form, where this character is so much more common; and because it's
    less similar to an equal sign, so less like anything else. \r\nCraig, I wonder,
    is it the angle you don't like \u2013 or is mine just a bit to, dunno, stiff or
    something? (I realize now it's probably a bit high.)"
  created: '2010-06-08 22:26:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>Looking at Dan's examples, I can't help but feel the angle on the doubled
    one is really really nice, also when the single is flat. Maybe also because it's
    closer to the blackletter form</em>\r\n\r\nWell, in this case, the client asked
    me for \"a double hyphen, like those you see in blackletter faces.\" So, I can't
    take the credit."
  created: '2010-06-08 22:50:42'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nina -- I think your angle is too steep. \r\n\r\nTry taking an angle perpendicular
    to the italic slope, then flip horizontally. (I hope that makes sense.)\r\n\r\nSee
    what that looks like. "
  created: '2010-06-09 00:33:07'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ah! Thanks Kent \u2013 this does seem better. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/doublehyphen2_6153.png]\r\nI'm
    not sure, maybe it seems a wee bit too flat now? But it sure is more pleasing
    by being more moderate."
  created: '2010-06-09 01:18:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em> Craig, I wonder, is it the angle you don't like \u2013 or is mine just
    a bit to, dunno, stiff or something?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, my reservation was more along
    the lines of it looking like a wrong font, since I don't associate that glyph
    with that kind of font.* I would just expect a more conventional hyphen so this
    sort jumped out as looking kind of affected - analogous to a grotesque with a
    ct-ligature, perhaps.\r\n\r\nBut Florian opened my eyes to the variety of letters
    that can be accompanied by a double hyphen in German, so that softens my objection.And
    I do think that Kent's suggestion has made it more pleasing. \r\n\r\n\r\n*What
    font is this, by the way? And how would you classify it if not a Garalde?"
  created: '2010-06-09 03:08:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"What font is this, by the way? And how would you classify it if not
    a Garalde?\"</cite>\r\nHm, maybe I'm not using the terms right? This is Kris Sowersby's
    Newzald, a Fleischmann/Rosart inspired design, so I'd rather call it transitional.
    Please correct me if I'm wrong. The reason why I said that BTW was that to my
    eye, the darkness and the relatively rigid \xABverticality\xBB of the face is
    more reminiscent of blackletter than a soft oldstyle face would be, a quality/association
    the double hyphen nicely clicks with. But maybe that's just me (I'm one of these
    people who see blackletter everywhere), and now that I've seen it, I think Dan's
    sample shows this can work nicely in other styles too."
  created: '2010-06-09 09:08:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm also one of these people who see blackletter everywhere\u2026"
  created: '2010-06-09 09:36:11'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Oh, my intention with those random samples was not to make a case for <em>flat</em>
    hyphens as a rule, but \u2013\_as Craig states \u2013 to show that this form has
    been used with all kinds of styles (especially in lettering that is, not so much
    in type). Flat hyphens can be appropriate for static forms like DIN and bold Didones.
    I concur with you that an angled form looks better with a somewhat dynamic style
    like yours, especially in the italics."
  created: '2010-06-09 09:38:00'
- author:
    name: "David Waschb\xFCsch"
    picture: 118940
  body: "Obviously I'm not anywhere near as qualified as my previous speakers but
    I recently did a angled double hyphen for my font. Despite it's origins I like
    setting a double hyphen when you have to seperate a compound word like \"Fluss-Schifffahrt\"
    exactly where the single hyphen is. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Unbenannt-1_5089.jpg]\r\n\r\nAngled
    because I won't have it confused with the equal sign & double because it is kind
    of doubled there. "
  created: '2010-06-09 12:39:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "David, that's an interesting and persuasive case.\r\n\r\nNina, if Fleischmann
    is Transitional (on which many would agree), I think I would say it's on the Garalde
    side of Transitional, so I was wondering why you were thankful not to be dealing
    with a Garalde. Your explanation made sense. (I find it difficult to fit that
    whole strand of 17th/18th-c. \"Dutch-English Oldstyle\" into Vox categories.)"
  created: '2010-06-09 14:32:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-09 14:35:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "FWIW, I don\u2019t consider Fleischmann or Rosart to be Transitional. They
    are Dutch Oldstyle, in my view. The sort of thing that leads to Caslon and Kis.
    I might be inclined to call this period Dutch Baroque, because of mixed stress
    and idiosyncratic terminals (and because I am musically minded).\r\n\r\nI would
    say that, with Newzald, Kris has introduced a little Neoclassical quality to his
    interpretation of the underlying style, with more regularized upright stress and
    greater sense of symmetry and balance. In that sense, Newzald is more Transitional,
    perhaps, than its inspirations.\r\n\r\nBut we probably don\u2019t need to go down
    the classification rabbit hole here. "
  created: '2010-06-09 15:40:43'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: I like your steeper angular one better. More distinct.
  created: '2010-06-09 15:42:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Wasn't Kis active in Amsterdam a few decades before Fleischmann and Rosart?
    And doesn't Caslon's career overlap with Fleischmann and Rosart's careers?
  created: '2010-06-09 16:14:00'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm \u2013 could one of the Germans (or Germanicized ;) confirm if the term
    <em>Barockantiqua</em> translates/maps to Transitional Style \u2013 or are those
    different? \r\nBecause I would call this baroque rather than oldstyle, but now
    I'm not sure about the terminology. (Sorry to be asking such newbie stuff :-\\
    )"
  created: '2010-06-09 16:22:19'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes, I think \"Barock=Antiqua\" from [[http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/DIN_16518|DIN
    16518]] maps onto \"R\xE9ales\" from [[http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classification_Vox-Atypi|Vox/ATypI]],
    which is the category that is most often rendered as \"Transitional\" in English.
    \r\n\r\nThe term \"Transitional\" may be what's complicating matters here. I'm
    actually currently writing a piece exactly on that subject.\r\n\r\nOn another
    note, my understanding is that \"oldstyle\" would usually encompass baroque types
    rather than be distinct from them, at least as the term was used originally to
    separate \"modern\" (didone) styles (and sometimes \"transitional\" styles meaning
    fonts like Baskerville's) from previous romans. But I guess you take it to mean
    Venetian/French pre-baroque styles only?"
  created: '2010-06-09 16:49:36'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"Barock=Antiqua\"</cite>\r\n:=)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"'oldstyle' would usually
    encompass baroque types rather than be distinct from them\"</cite>\r\nAah! Yes,
    I tried to use \"oldstyle\" as mapping to the German \"Renaissance-Antiqua\",
    which would include Garaldes and Venetians (or \xABhumanes\xBB & \xABgaraldes\xBB
    according to Vox/Atypi I guess), pre-Transitional. Is there no \xABexclusive\xBB
    English term for these?"
  created: '2010-06-09 16:58:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I can't think of one.
  created: '2010-06-09 17:36:30'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Dan \u2014 I think you\u2019re probably right. They are all very close in
    chronology. I always have to look it all up to sort them properly.\r\n\r\nBut
    I think of Kis as a development out of the Dutch tradition, because he was trained
    in Amsterdam (Voskens, if memory serves) but then went on to evolve independently,
    and his later work seems to share more in common with Fournier (in my eyes), making
    his types more of a stylistic bridge to neoclassical and modern (again: my personal
    take on it, not any historical truism).\r\n\r\nCaslon is said to have been imitating
    Dutch models. If not Fleischmann, then precursors to Fleischmann. Maybe more Voskens
    or Van Dyck. Again, I think of Caslon as a development coming out of the Dutch
    style \u2014 influenced by, but then evolving into its own. \r\n\r\nBut I often
    create my own history. ;-)"
  created: '2010-06-09 18:57:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I definitely agree that Kis and Caslon both develop from Dutch Old Style traditions!
    ;-)
  created: '2010-06-09 20:28:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I love the way Nina's threads always generate so much food for thought, and
    how much more there is for me to learn about.
  created: '2010-06-09 21:57:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Same here! :-)
  created: '2010-06-09 22:22:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The steepest (whiteletter) hyphen I have come across is in Polyphilus.\r\nNot
    quite so extreme: Italian Oldstyle (Goudy)."
  created: '2010-06-09 22:28:11'
- author:
    name: mekka
    picture: 114851
  body: "Take a look at Unicode\u2019s nameslist.txt comments for U+2E17, where, among
    other things, you will find:\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2022 hyphen in Fraktur text uses 002D
    or 2010, but with a '2E17' glyph in Fraktur fonts\r\n\u2192 (hyphen-minus - 002D)\r\n\u2192
    (equals sign - 003D)\r\n\u2192 (hyphen - 2010)</cite>"
  created: '2010-06-10 11:11:54'
- author:
    name: "David Waschb\xFCsch"
    picture: 118940
  body: "Okay I'm sitting here in this meeting and this one woman across the board
    is wearing this t-shirt with an old Pepsi-Cola logo. Aaaaand guess what: There's
    a double hyphen in it. ;) Despite it isn't a blackletter logo type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pepsi_3904.jpg]"
  created: '2010-06-14 09:35:52'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Excellent!
  created: '2010-06-14 09:43:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It may also be part of the Coke-Pepsi rivalry where they use an equals sign
    to indicate that Pepsi=Cola
  created: '2010-06-14 14:57:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_5163.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/picture2_6165.png]\r\nThese
    are from <em>The Inland Printer</em> 1907-8.\r\nInteresting that the double-hyphen
    accompanied tall fonts in these instances, since you mentioned \"verticality,\"
    Nina."
  created: '2010-06-14 15:56:22'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow, nice finds. Was this common/frequent in English?\r\n\r\nBTW, I just
    noticed that the usage that David (einfach ein) mentions <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/71089#comment-415089\">above</a>
    seems to be official practice of the Merriam-Websters, at least according to <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_hyphen\">Wikipedia</a>:\r\n<cite>\"In
    Merriam-Webster dictionaries if a word is divided at the end of the line, and
    the division-point happens to be a hyphen, it is replaced with a double hyphen
    to graphically indicate that the divided word is normally hyphenated, for example
    cross\u2E17\r\ncountry\"</cite>"
  created: '2010-06-14 17:19:02'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wow, I'm amazed. It's not something I've ever noticed before, but I guess
    now the double hyphen is on my radar, I'll see it everywhere.
  created: '2010-06-14 18:46:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Was this common/frequent in English?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, not common generally
    (I had to do some looking to come up with those examples). But now I wonder if
    it was a convention that attached to condensed fonts like those.\r\n\r\nYour wiki
    link also mentions the Waldorf=Astoria.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/w-a_4678.png]\r\nNotice
    the double hyphen with the script <em>and the single with the logo's blackletter</em>!"
  created: '2010-06-14 18:47:55'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: Glyph name 'doublehyphen'?
  created: '2010-06-15 02:20:53'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: Just in case I didn't manage to completely kill off this thread, what OT feature
    would make sense here? Any suggestions? Anyone? Bueller?
  created: '2010-06-16 11:11:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Malabar-with-Double-Hyphens-GJ2010_4256.jpg]\r\n\r\nNina,
    here are the Malabar double hyphens as they are used in Gutenberg-Jahrbuch (for
    which I drew them). For transcription. That image lives at Flickr <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/4780242354/in/set-72157624463563260/\">here</a>,
    and I have a set of more photos from the book <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/typeoff/sets/72157624463563260/with/4780253626/\">here</a>."
  created: '2010-07-11 08:40:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Orthogonal: in Italy the (straight) double hyphen is (at least it was to
    me) taught in school as the proper hyphenation  symbol to use in handwriting.\r\n(I
    haven\u2019t re-read the entire thread, so, sorry if it was already mentioned)"
  created: '2010-07-11 09:13:06'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Wow Dan, that's very nice.\r\nI'm curious, is it the same hyphen or did you
    make a v-shifted one for use with all-caps?"
  created: '2010-07-11 12:46:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, I did not do the typesetting or the design/layout of the book. I just
    worked on the typefaces for it!\r\n\r\nThere is just one double-hyphen in the
    font. But those are small caps in the image, though\u2026 not caps. Small caps
    are often used for the transcription of inscriptions, etc.\r\n\r\nI am sure that
    the small caps look fine next to the single or double-hyphen's vertical positions.
    But, the typesetter/typographer/designer/etc. is always free to shift things around
    in InDesign, of course. "
  created: '2010-07-11 12:53:37'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Folks, the DOUBLE OBLIQUE HYPHEN is encoded at U+2E17. That's the one to
    use when you want, erm, a double oblique hyphen.\r\n\r\nIt was encoded separately
    from HYPHEN-MINUS (etc) because both were used in Copticist grammar books in German
    and in English."
  created: '2010-07-11 14:53:15'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[ Following ]'
  created: '2010-07-15 00:32:49'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: Hey Dan, what OT feature do you use to call this double oblique hyphen?
  created: '2010-11-30 11:46:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I didn't use any feature in this font. I just gave it the proper unicode
    value, and that was it. But, if I were to use an OT feature in the future, I would
    consider the historical alternate feature, and/or a stylistic set. Actually, a
    historical alternate is probably not the most proper, \"clean\" way of doing it,
    since it is its own character\u2026"
  created: '2010-12-11 20:29:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Just the other day, I was looking at a specimen of an English-language script
    face... which used double hyphens instead of single ones. So it apparently is
    a popular stylistic variant of the hyphen.
  created: '2010-12-12 00:09:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Right. But a stylistic set replaces one variant of a character with another
    \u2026 it replaces one glyph with another glyph. The hyphen and the double hyphen
    are two separate characters. At least according to Unicode. \r\n\r\nWhen you use
    a stylistic set to replace a with a.alt01, you are replacing one version of a
    character with another. This is what stylistic sets are for. I don't think that
    stylistic sets were intended as a means of character replacement \u2026 just a
    means of glyph replacement."
  created: '2010-12-12 13:14:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>English-language script face... which used double hyphens
    instead of single ones. So it apparently is a popular stylistic variant of the
    hyphen.</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think that it need to differentiate between
    the (straight) script-style of double hyphen (which is linked to cursive school
    scripts) and the (oblique) blackletter-style double hyphen (which Unicode deemed
    worthy of a specific codepoint)."
  created: '2010-12-12 13:29:31'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "According to Unicode, an \u2018st\u2019 ligature is a separate character
    (<a href=\"http://www.decodeunicode.org/en/u+fb06\">U+FB06</a>) \u2013 so much
    for that."
  created: '2010-12-12 14:04:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "True, but many ligatures are encoded because of backwards-compability issues,
    as far as I know. Actually, encoding ligatures is against Unicode's own philosophy.
    I don't think that new ligatures are being added \u2026 and ligature-like behaviors
    in many other scripts are not encoded.\r\n\r\nTypographically, an st-liagture
    surely appears more often, and over a broader time range, than a double hyphen."
  created: '2010-12-12 15:03:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The fi and fl are also encoded but Adobe recommends using f_i f_l in substitutions
    so it will come back to a reader as the two letters. Can I put the unicode value
    of "fi" on the "f_i" glyph?
  created: '2010-12-12 16:46:52'
date: '2010-06-06 19:35:49'
node_type: forum
title: Transcription of [German] double hyphen?

---
