---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "1. Does Serbian has to be registered with the languagesystem statement \"languagesystem
  cyrl SRB\"? I found a font, in which it seems to be registered with \"languagesystem
  latn SRB\".\r\n\r\n2. If I want to exclude a script from a feature, it seems, that
  I cannot write \"script cyrl exclude_dflt\" for example. At least this is not defined
  in the OpenType Feature File Specification. Or is \"script cyrl\" equivalent to
  \"script cyrl exclude_dflt\"? (If yes, this would be a bit inconsistent, because
  \"language DEU\" is equivalent to \"language DEU include_dflt\".)"
comments:
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: 'On #1, doesn''t it depend whether it is Latin Serbian or Cyrillic Serbian?'
  created: '2010-06-12 10:47:49'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ archaica\r\n\r\nI think you are right. All combinations are allowed, as
    far as I interpret the specs correctly, even something like \"languagesystem cyrl
    DEU\" or \"languagesystem grek BUL\"."
  created: '2010-06-12 13:32:00'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nthe \"exclude_dflt\" and \"include_dflt\" refer to languages
    only, because each script has a <code>DefaultLangSys</code> \"language\", i.e.
    within each script there is a set of languages plus a \"default\" language. As
    a font developer, you specify whether the lookups associated with the default
    language for a given script should be also registered in the \"named\" language
    (\"include_dflt\"), or whether they should be left out (\"exclude_dflt\"). \r\n\r\nThere
    is a \"DFLT\" script tag, but its concept on the script level is different than
    the DefaultLangSys on the language level. Also, it's a fairly new addition to
    the OpenType spec and not all layout engines support it. \r\n\r\nSo to give you
    a short answer: yes, the shorthand \"exclude_dflt\" and \"include_dflt\" only
    works for languages. Scripts are always mutually exclusive. \r\n\r\nThe following
    is a way to define an OpenType Layout feature <code>swsh</code> to be registered
    in all globally (i.e. for the entire font) declared languagesystems: \r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem
    DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;\r\nlanguagesystem
    cyrl dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem cyrl SRB;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature swsh {
    \r\n  lookup swsh01 { \r\n  sub a by a.swsh;\r\n  } swsh01;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    following is a <b>valid</b> way to write the same but using locally declared languagesystems
    (in AFDKO 2.5 syntax). \r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh { \r\n  script DFLT; \r\n  language
    dflt;\r\n  lookup swsh01 { \r\n  sub a by a.swsh; \r\n  } swsh01; \r\n  script
    latn; \r\n  language dflt; \r\n  lookup swsh01; \r\n  language ROM include_dflt;\r\n
    \ script cyrl; \r\n  language dflt; \r\n  lookup swsh01; \r\n  language SRB include_dflt;\r\n}
    swsh; </code>\r\n\r\nThe following is an <b>invalid</b> way to write the same
    but using locally declared languagesystems (in AFDKO 2.5 syntax). I.e. it will
    not work with the current AFDKO syntax, although I guess it would be useful if
    such syntax were implemented. \r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh { \r\n  script DFLT;
    \r\n  language dflt;\r\n  lookup swsh01 { \r\n  sub a by a.swsh; \r\n  } swsh01;
    \r\n  script latn include_DFLT; \r\n  script cyrl include_DFLT; \r\n} swsh; </code>\r\n\r\nThis
    way, all lookups defined in the script <code>DFLT</code> would be also registered
    with the scripts <code>latn</code> and <code>cyrl</code>. However, the default
    implicit value for scripts should be <code>exclude_DFLT</code> in order not to
    break backwards-compatibility. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-12 17:58:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature swsh {\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage
    dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n} swsh01;\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage
    dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM include_dflt;\r\nscript cyrl;\r\nlanguage
    dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01;\r\nlanguage SRB include_dflt;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nYou
    were probably so detailed because of comprehensibility. The statement \"include_dflt\"
    can be omitted, because the language statement is set to include by default, right?
    And in case of the script statement it is just the other way around with the difference,
    that it can be exclusive only. And the statement \"language dflt;\" can be probably
    also omitted.\r\n\r\nIt is much easier to keep the overview in your code.\r\n\r\nBut
    this would result in the same, wouldn\u2019t it?:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature swsh
    {\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n}
    swsh01;\r\nscript latn;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM;
    # include_dflt;\r\nscript cyrl;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01;\r\nlanguage
    SRB; # include_dflt;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nAnd how about this?:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature
    swsh {\r\n# script latn;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n}
    swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM; # include_dflt;\r\nscript cyrl;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01;\r\nlanguage SRB; # include_dflt;\r\nscript DFLT;\r\n# (?) language dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nI ask, because if you open a font in FontLab,
    it does not display the statement \"script latn; language dflt;\"."
  created: '2010-06-12 19:09:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, you're right. If <code>include_dflt</code>, <code>script latn</code>
    and <code>language dflt</code> are omitted, they are implied. \r\n\r\nYou're also
    right that <code>languagesystem cyrl DEU</code> is allowed. Any mixture of valid
    script and language tags are permitted, except that for the <code>DFLT</code>
    script tag, named language tags are not permitted (only the special <code>dflt</code>
    language tag is allowed, which inside of the font file represents the DefaultLangSys).
    \r\n\r\nNote that <code>languagesystem grek BUL</code> is not allowed because
    <code>BUL</code> is not a valid language tag. The language tag for Bulgarian is
    <code>BGR</code>. Similarly, <code>TUR</code> is an invalid language tag but it
    keeps popping up. The valid language tag for Turkish is <code>TRK</code>. "
  created: '2010-06-12 19:31:03'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Arno, you're right. If include_dflt, script latn  and language dflt
    are omitted, they are implied.</cite>\r\n\r\nEven here (Second example from my
    previous message with the difference, that the statement \"script latn;\" is likewise
    commented)?:\r\n\r\nfeature swsh {\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n} swsh01;\r\n# script latn;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM; # include_dflt;\r\nscript cyrl;\r\n# language dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01;\r\nlanguage SRB; # include_dflt;\r\n} swsh;\r\n\r\nWhile I can understand,
    that the statement \"script latn\" is implied, when it is on the top of the feature,
    I wonder, how it can be implied, if it is not on the top, because the position
    \"top\" is the only marker, isn\u2019t it? I mean, how can the compiler know,
    where it begins, when it is not on the top? (That was the reason, why I had posted
    the third example in my previous message. In that example the statement \"script
    latn\" is on the top [and commented].)\r\n\r\n<cite>BUL is not allowed because
    BUL is not a valid language tag. The language tag for Bulgarian is BGR.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks.
    It\u2019s not my font, which I try to fix. You just have found another bug in
    it!"
  created: '2010-06-12 19:54:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "No, this won't work. Try compiling it and you'll see that only the script
    tags DFLT and cyrl have been registered. (In fact, FontLab Studio doesn't even
    properly register DFLT and uses four zero bytes instead). \r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#4.b
    explains how it works in detail. \r\n\r\nI should revise my earlier statement:
    all lookups declared within a feature definition <i>before</i> an explicit <code>script</code>
    and/or <code>language</code> keyword are registered for all languagesystems specified
    globally. However, if you don't specify <i>any</i> global languagesystem, AFDKO
    will assume <code>languagesystem latn dflt;</code>.\r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-12 22:04:13'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I should revise my earlier statement: all lookups declared within a
    feature definition before an explicit script and/or language  keyword are registered
    for all languagesystems specified globally.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd because of that
    the script tag \"script latn\" should not be omitted, if the languagesystem \"DFLT
    dflt\" is defined in the beginning:\r\n\r\nIf you have the language system statement
    \"DFLT dflt\" in the beginning of the feature file, and if you have a language
    tag (except from dflt, BGR for example) in a feature without a script tag above,
    the AFDKO tries to register the language as languagesystem \"DFLT language (in
    my example \"BGR\")\"; but because DFLT is defined for dflt only (in the feature
    file specification), makeotf crashes. So my recommendation is, not to omit the
    script tag \"script latn\", if there is a language tag without another script
    tag above it in a feature.\r\n\r\n<cite>This way, all lookups defined in the script
    DFLT would be also registered with the scripts latn and cyrl. However, the default
    implicit value for scripts should be exclude_DFLT  in order not to break backwards-compatibility.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    would prefer consistence and would sacrifice the backwards compatibility. Alternatively
    it should be required to add the exclude or include statement, which means, that
    the AFDKO should report an error, if the statement is missing, except there is
    no dflt statement. But I would prefer the first alternative. As motto: Keep it
    simple, but be consistent with the rules in specifications."
  created: '2010-06-13 10:47:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> I would prefer consistence and would sacrifice the backwards compatibility.\r\n\r\nYou're
    kidding me, right? A font that has extensive OpenType Layout features defined
    in the AFDKO syntax should compile fine in, say, FontLab Studio 6.0 but would
    fail to compile in FontLab Studio 6.5? \r\n\r\nI think it would be horrible. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-13 17:51:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>You're kidding me, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, this was
    my earnest. I am not kidding anybody, who is helping me, especially not in an
    unfair way. And you are a good teacher! I appreciate your explanations. I only
    disagree with you in that point. And the problem could be easily solved by exporting
    the feature file and replacing all tags \"script xxxx (grek for example)\" by
    \"script xxxx exclude_DFLT\".\r\n\r\nThis could be automated. Is the FontLab Studio
    version stored in the vfb files? If yes, the next versions of FontLab could post
    a message, if a user opens a font with OT features: \"The feature file syntax
    has changed. Shall the features be automatically corrected? YES/NO.\" If the user
    says \"NO\", then FontLab only should add a comment to the the script tags. Something
    like that.\r\n\r\n--------------\r\n\r\nExcept from that I (think I) have understood
    the real meaning of the statement \"exclude_dflt\" today: It does not necessarily
    mean, that a language is excluded from the rules defined in dflt. It only means,
    that the rules are not additionally registered for that language, if there are
    no rules between that language tag and the following script tag, language tag
    or the end of the feature.\r\n\r\nAnd I think, that QuarkXPress 8 for Windows
    (and maybe also for MAC) has a slight problem to understand the difference. It
    can happen, that QuarkXPress does not make use of the rules defined for the languagesystem
    \"latn dflt\", if there is an exception for a Latin language in a feature. Then
    QuarkXPress ignores the following features, if that language is active in QuarkXPress.
    It\u2019s hard to describe, what I mean , but the behavior is different from Indesign
    and I think, that Indesign handles the features much more correctly.\r\n\r\n--------------\r\n\r\nTypotheque
    does not seem to check their fonts in QuarkXPress (8 for Windows), at least not
    for all languages, in which the features should work. They seem to try reducing
    the size of features with either the statement \"exclude_dflt\", if the languagesystem
    for that language is defined at the top of the feature file, or, if it is not
    defined at the top, they define the rules for languages directly in the features,
    but in an inconsequent way."
  created: '2010-06-13 19:18:15'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Quoting myself: <cite>Except from that I (think I) have understood the real
    meaning of the statement \"exclude_dflt\" today</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, it seems to
    be, that in the moment, in which a rule is defined for a language in one of the
    features, but not in the others, the applications don\u2019t make use of the script-dflt-rules
    anymore. In none of the features. Damn!\r\n\r\nNevertheless QuarkXpress behaves
    differently."
  created: '2010-06-13 19:48:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nthe \"include_dflt\" or \"exclude_dflt\" rules are just shorthands
    for the AFDKO compiler as to which lookups to associate with which languagesystems.
    \r\n\r\nThe AFDKO code: \r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n} swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM include_dflt; # (include_dflt
    can be omitted)\r\nlookup swsh02 { \r\nsub b by b.swsh; \r\n} swsh02; \r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nwill
    produce the the following OpenType languagesystems-to-lookups associations: \r\nlatn/dflt
    \u2014 lookups: swsh01\r\nlatn/ROM \u2014 lookups: swsh01 & swsh02\r\n\r\nwhile
    the AFDKO code: \r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n} swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM exclude_dflt;\r\nlookup
    swsh02 { \r\nsub b by b.swsh; \r\n} swsh02; \r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\nwill produce
    the the following OpenType languagesystems-to-lookups associations: \r\nlatn/dflt
    \u2014 lookups: swsh01\r\nlatn/ROM \u2014 lookups: swsh02\r\n\r\nIt does work
    in Adobe InDesign CS4 for example. \r\n\r\nIf you mark your text as \"U.S. English\"
    in the Character palette's language selector, only \"a\" will be replaced with
    \"a.swsh\". \r\n\r\nIf your code is like in my first example and you mark the
    text as \"Romanian\", both \"a\" and \"b\" will be replaced with the \".swsh\"
    counterparts, but if your code is like in my second example, then only \"b\" will
    be replaced. \r\n\r\nI just tested it, it works as advertised. As I said, in InDesign
    CS4 and CS5 (and I think also in CS3) \u2014 but only if the language you want
    to use is in the Character palette's dropdown list for languages, and if you explicitly
    assign that language to your text. \r\n\r\nIn Uniscribe-based applications, it
    all comes to whether an application that uses Uniscribe \"signals\" to the library
    that a non-default language is used for a text string. That may be the case for
    complex scripts currently (I don't really know), but I doubt this is done for
    Latin-based scripts in any applications. John Hudson might know. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-13 20:12:33'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "(Edited. This message was written before I have read your previous message,
    Adam.)\r\n\r\nOne more time:\r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn ROM;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature swsh {\r\nlookup
    swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n} swsh01;\r\n} swsh;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 {\r\nlookup swsh0101 {\r\nsub b by b.alt;\r\n} swsh0101;\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage
    ROM exclude_dflt;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nresults in the same as\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    swsh {\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01 {\r\nsub a by a.swsh;\r\n}
    swsh01;\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup swsh01;\r\nlanguage ROM;\r\n}
    swsh;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 {\r\nscript DFLT;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup
    ss0101 {\r\nsub b by b.alt;\r\n} swsh01;\r\nscript latn;\r\nlanguage dflt;\r\nlookup
    ss0101;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nAnd in the moment, in which a rule for a certain
    language is defined in feature A but not in feature B, the statement \"language
    dflt\" does not apply to feature B anymore, if the language is selected in the
    application.\r\n\r\nIn my example b would not be substituted by b.alt in Romanian.
    I am getting headaches. I must build a test font, with the help of which I can
    better comprehend that. It may be, that I am irritated by the problem, that I
    had with QuarkXPress."
  created: '2010-06-13 20:44:37'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nI could make out a part of the problem. Tested in Indesign
    CS3 for Windows.\r\n\r\nWith the following code, the small caps would not work,
    if German is selected:\r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem latn dflt;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    smcp {\r\n\tsub @smcp1 by @smcp2;\r\n\tlanguage DEU exclude_dflt;\r\n} smcp;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 {\r\n\tfeatureNames {\r\n\t\tname \"censor\";\r\n\t\tname 1 \"censor\";\r\n\t}
    ;\r\n\tsub f u k c by asterisk; # Lol, the board software is humorless.\r\n\tlanguage
    DEU include_dflt;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nBut with this code, the small caps
    work:\r\n\r\n<code>languagesystem latn dflt;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp
    {\r\n\tsub @smcp1 by @smcp2;\r\n\tlanguage DEU exclude_dflt;\r\n} smcp;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 {\r\n\tfeatureNames {\r\n\t\tname \"censor\";\r\n\t\tname 1 \"censor\";\r\n\t}
    ;\r\n\tsub f u k c by asterisk; # Lol, the board software is humorless.\r\n\t#
    language DEU include_dflt;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nDo you agree, that this is
    very irritating? My conclusions are, that the exclude_dflt statement works only,
    if the languagesystem of the questionable languagesystem (latn DEU in my example),
    that shall be excluded, is defined. And the languagesystem can be defined by putting
    an include_dflt statement (implied by the language tag without exclude_dflt statement)
    for the questionable language (DEU in my example) in a random feature (except
    from the feature with the exclude_dflt statement). Furthermore the OT programmer
    should define the languagesystems of all languages, that are defined in a feature
    \u2013 independent from the presence of an exclude_dflt or include_dflt statement
    in one of the features \u2013 above the first feature, because otherwise he may
    loose the overview and the features may not work as expected."
  created: '2010-06-14 10:36:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "There is something suspicious in your code :) \r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp
    {\r\nsub @smcp1 by @smcp2;\r\nlanguage DEU exclude_dflt;\r\n} smcp;</code>\r\n\r\nHere,
    small caps should work for latn/dflt but not for latn/DEU. In your second example,
    no lookups are registered in latn/DEU at all. Perhaps then AFDKO is just throwing
    the whole latn/DEU tree out? (If there is no single lookup associated with it).
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-14 14:01:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Arno and Adam!
  created: '2010-06-14 15:02:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nI understand, what you mean, but my examples from the previous
    message illustrate a trap, in which the user of the AFDKO easily can fall. I really
    love these examples. I will print the feature file specification, when I have
    made a better Stylesheet for it and I will attach the examples from my previous
    message and the examples from your first message in this thread.\r\n\r\n-----\r\n\r\nHey,
    there is another thing, that I have to check: What happens, if I remove the ss01-feature?
    In this case there are probably also no lookups registered in latn/DEU at all.
    And this would probably mean, that at least a dummy feature (with the include_dflt
    statement for the questionable language [DEU in my example]) or any rule below
    the exclude_dflt statement would be required, if you want to exclude rules from
    a language in the remaining feature (smcp), wouldn\u2019t it?\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-14 15:15:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nIf there are no global languagesystems defined explicitly,
    then AFDKO assumes latn/dflt. \r\n\r\nThen, within each feature definition, if
    there are no explicit language and script statements, AFDKO assumes that that
    feature is registered into all globally defined languagesystems. That is, if there
    is no explicit definition, latn/dflt is assumed, otherwise all the languagesystems
    that you defined outside of the feature definitions. \r\n\r\nIf you have explicit
    language and script statements within feature definitions, you must start the
    feature definition with a script statement, and then you need to basically work
    through all the scripts and languages that you registered globally, and decide
    what needs to be done for each (using the include_dflt and exclude_dflt statements).
    \r\n\r\nIf you have a feature where you want script- or language-specific behavior,
    I for one always recommend spelling out all the scripts and languages, and even
    always use the include_dflt keyword if necessary. That is \u2014 for the sake
    of readability and predictability \u2014 do not use the implicit behavior but
    instead, always spell out what you want done. Then you have full control and know
    what you're doing. \r\n\r\nImplicit definitions are sometimes tricky because they
    may confuse you more than they will help. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-14 15:21:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would have to admit this does seem to be suspicious. One would think that
    if one specified the Serbian language with the Latin script, what one would get
    is the Croatian language.\r\n\r\nBut when it comes to computer systems, in general,
    backwards compatibility is an absolute requirement. If a new version of something
    is not backwards compatible, it is not really an upgrade; one might as well buy
    a new product entirely if it will be necessary to convert existing work, instead
    of, by upgrading the same product, retaining the ability to continue to use all
    of one's old work without change. Customers demand upwards compatibility, and,
    by and large, they get it.\r\n\r\nWhen backwards compatibility leads to complexities
    and inconsistencies, however, there is always the option of supporting the old
    way of doing things completely, but also offering the option of using a new way
    which is consistent and has room for additional features, and which might even
    incorporate some new features that don't fit well in the old system."
  created: '2010-06-14 18:19:19'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> One would think that if one specified the Serbian language with the \r\n>
    Latin script, what one would get is the Croatian language.\r\n\r\nThe fact that
    the OpenType font format specification allows arbitrary assignments of languages
    to script does not mean that all such combinations must make sense in real-world
    use today. Croatian has its own OpenType language tag, \"HRV\", which is more
    appropriate to use when one wants to make a typesetting rule for Croatian. \r\n\r\nBut
    there are languages which use several scripts today, or have used various scripts
    in the past. For example, Turkish uses the Latin script since 1928, but Turkish
    texts also exist in the Ottoman Turkish variant of Arabic script. For them, it
    certainly makes sense to use the arab/TRK languagesystem (Arabic script, Turkish
    language). \r\n\r\nThere are also transliteration conventions which are being
    used. For example, one could imagine setting up some OpenType features for latn/ARA,
    i.e. Latin script, Arabic language, if the developer has in mind the Latin-script
    transliteration of the Arabic language. \r\n\r\nAlso, the system is more future-proof.
    Imagine that perhaps in 20 years, Serbia will decide to switch from the Cyrillic
    to the Latin alphabet (I'm not saying that is should, or that it may happen, this
    is just a hypothetical example) \u2014 then using latn/SRB will certainly make
    sense. "
  created: '2010-06-14 18:52:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It is also worth remembering that the script + language system tag combination
    actually represents a particular typographic convention for that script, which
    may or may not directly relate to natural language usage. In theory, the tags
    could be used to differentiate e.g. French and German classicist typographic conventions
    for the Greek script. While it is attractive to software makers to link OTL language
    system tags to spellcheck and hyphenation dictionaries for natural languages,
    as Adobe do in InDesign, ideally a user should be able to tag text directly with
    the OTL language system tags. This should be possible in CSS3.
  created: '2010-06-15 03:34:48'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<cite>One would think that if one specified the Serbian language with the
    Latin script, what one would get is the Croatian language.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    30 years ago one could have said that, but it's hardly acceptable now. Although
    the Serbian government officially uses Cyrillic script, Serbo-Croatian speakers
    who self-identify as Serbs, and use Serbian linguistic forms where these differ
    from Croatian, quite frequently use Latin script as well, and one really can't
    tell them that they're writing in Croatian when they do this."
  created: '2010-06-15 04:11:21'
date: '2010-06-12 10:04:29'
node_type: forum
title: languagesystem, language and script statements -- a few questions

---
