---
author:
  name: kevintheophile
body: "Hello people!\r\n\r\nI'm tired of Titillium and TitilliumText22L! It's not
  legible in small sizes or in 11, 13, 14px in the sites or blogs! Titillium isn't
  like Arial, Helvetica and Verdana. Titillium is totally legible only in Word 2007
  with optimized ClearType, Paint, Photoshop, Illustrator, Inkscape and Gimp. \r\n\r\nI
  need a free and ORIGINAL font which...\r\n\u2014 sans-serif\r\n\u2014 totally legible
  in small sizes (10 to 14px)\r\n\u2014 contemporary\r\n\u2014 corporate\r\n\u2014
  fashionable\r\n\u2014 modern\r\n\u2014 squarish\r\n\u2014 techno\r\n\u2014 text.
  \r\n\r\nThanx u all!\r\n\r\nKevin"
comments:
- author:
    name: Renko
    picture: 111443
  body: "You sure will get more results without the \xBBfree\xAB \u2026"
  created: '2010-06-15 14:02:37'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Kevin-\r\n\r\nLooks like it is up to you to create it. Seriously, that is
    a laughable rant/request.... especially here."
  created: '2010-06-15 14:15:39'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: '@Ethan, why did you say it was a laughable rant? Were laughing at me? Or
    at the font? Are they the type designers?'
  created: '2010-06-15 14:22:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"free and ORIGINAL\"\r\n\r\nCan you go one or the other? Having both requirements
    is going to severely limit your options. "
  created: '2010-06-15 15:16:19'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: '@aluminium, "original" means not pirate. I don''t want pirate fonts. I need
    SAFE fonts. '
  created: '2010-06-15 15:18:53'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "It is laughable to demand that someone create a high quality font that meets
    nine criteria you selected for FREE. Why complain about it? Pony up the money
    for a font that meets your needs.\r\n\r\nThis makes me grumpy because your expectations
    are misplaced."
  created: '2010-06-15 15:38:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Kevin, perhaps this will teach you why fonts cost money.
  created: '2010-06-15 17:05:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I am working on the font right now.\r\nHaving just become independently wealthy,
    I can now devote my time to \"giving back\", so the font will be free.\r\nRather
    like Helvetica, it will be the kind of font that even the worst designer can put
    into a hastily conceived layout in any size in any medium, pixel or print, and
    immediately all the conflicting conotations of any design brief will be resolved
    in a client-pleasing, product-shifting, message-selling, award-winning piece of
    creative genius. Corporate, yet fashionable, squarish yet legible, strong yet
    subtle, techno yet organic, familiar yet not clich\xE9d, &c. &c.\r\nThe font will
    be named <em>Magic</em>."
  created: '2010-06-15 17:41:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI am working on a similar font, it is called \"The Emperors New
    Clothes\""
  created: '2010-06-15 18:23:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry, Nick and Chris, I've already designed this font, but thanks to very
    complex OpenType Layout lookups it can only be used to describe the indescribable,
    relate the unrelatable, explicate the inexplicable, and generally to typeset only
    impossible texts. Obviously it\u2019s is no less legible at small sizes than at
    large. The font is called <em>Wovon man nicht sprechen kann, dar\xFCber mu\xDF
    man schweigen</em>. "
  created: '2010-06-15 19:54:02'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Ethan, you're really laughing at me and criticizing me. I didn't demand
    that anyone create one, but I asked that someone found one totally legible font
    with these catheorgies or not.\r\n\r\nAs you laughed, kidded or foolished me and
    criticized me, I desist of asking somenone to fin one free legible font. I decide
    to continue using Titillium. Soonly I'll buy the fonts so I don't have time of
    buying the fonts. \r\n\r\nAs I'm impressed with your attituds, I have to get out
    of here, you'll be free of me. "
  created: '2010-06-15 20:00:20'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Boy, I feel like a dull sledgehammer compared to the the fine poetic precision
    exhibited here. I humbly submit to \"yous-allses\" grand wit. +1\r\n\r\nI'd like
    to hear how Berlow would respond."
  created: '2010-06-15 20:40:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I wonder why he left angry? He got exactly what he paid for.
  created: '2010-06-15 20:45:19'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I didn't demand that anyone create one, but I asked that someone
    found one\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWell \u2013 fonts don't grow on trees. For there to
    be one, someone has to make one.\r\nAnd you've come to the place where people
    who make them hang out."
  created: '2010-06-15 20:57:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>I wonder why he left angry? He got exactly what he paid for.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    you guys foolished him, Chris.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-15 21:18:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: But, John, no man is an island so what is lost is never bained
  created: '2010-06-15 21:50:35'
- author:
    name: Froy
    picture: 118753
  body: "@ Nick Shinn\r\n\r\nAs soon as I read the first line of your comment \"I
    am working on the font right now.\"\r\nI burst into endless laughter on the floor.
    haha lol. Too funny..."
  created: '2010-06-15 22:05:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, that''s the perfect font for publishing Wittgenstein, whom you quote.
    Then nobody will make the mistake of trying to understand him :) '
  created: '2010-06-15 22:12:39'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: 'I will seize the opportunity and link to: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=57PWqFowq-4">M.A.
    Numminen sings Wittgenstein</a>'
  created: '2010-06-15 22:57:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79vdlEcWxvM\">Philosophy football</a>\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-15 23:07:59'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: '@Florian: Oh dear Wittgenstein! I did not see that coming. M. A. Numminen
    is a demi-god in Finlad (no matter what Wittgenstein says). And apparently also
    in Sweden and Germany. He helped me through my childhood with his Mr Who (Herra
    Huu).'
  created: '2010-06-15 23:20:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Great one, Nick!
  created: '2010-06-16 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I change my mind, instead of naming my font \"The Emperor's New Clothes\",
    I am naming it:\r\n\r\n\"Got zol dir gebn a rak mit a rekele -- vestu hobn a ganstn
    kostium\""
  created: '2010-06-16 00:13:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know Yiddish, but my friend google does. Even knows [[http://books.google.com/books?id=-QK3wu51XKUC&pg=PA175&lpg=PA175&dq=Got+zol+dir+gebn+a+rak+mit+a+rekele&source=bl&ots=vzaMOG4cpP&sig=OMtwgHna72LW9tWZH5yA82mCR4o&hl=en&ei=AwsYTI60GpG29gSRltHpDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBIQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=Got%20zol%20dir%20gebn%20a%20rak%20mit%20a%20rekele&f=false|Yiddish
    puns.]] Of course it would be a pun with Chris\u2014a double richochet this time
    :)"
  created: '2010-06-16 00:25:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>The font will be named Magic.</em>\r\n\r\nDid Apple commission this from
    you?"
  created: '2010-06-16 00:40:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That was just for you, Bill!\r\n\r\nThe translation is:\r\n\r\n\"May god
    give you a large cancer as well as a small cancer--so then, you will have a nice
    outfit!\"\r\n\"rak\" means both cancer and jacket, hence the pun Bill mentioned.\r\n\r\nAnd
    no, I don't speak Yiddish, I just got a book for Christmas from my wife, who is
    tired of me butchering it, called \"The Book of Yiddish Insults and Curses\""
  created: '2010-06-16 01:05:53'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "Woo, let's all get together and have a bashing party! Let's get all smart
    on him! We'll show him! We'll use our cleverness in sarcastic speeches that he
    might not even understand! Let's unite around our hatred for those who do not
    get it! Yes! That always works nicely!\r\n\r\n:(\r\nThese threads always make
    me want less to be on Typophile\u2026 I really, honestly, hold you all up to a
    higher standard than this.\r\n\r\nKevintheophile, this might not have been made
    clear in a nice way, but maybe you got it already: what you're asking for isn't
    really fair. And maybe it even exists (and if it does, someone's bound to eventually
    come here and give you what you asked for), but it probably doesn't.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    there are some other things you might be overlooking:\r\n\r\nWhat do you want
    this typeface for? To use it on websites, you'll have to either have it on Flash
    or an image of some kind or use some kind of @font-face thing (I'm not too familiar
    with those), because nobody will have this font on their systems and it won't
    show up on regular html text. Why not just use Verdana, Georgia, Tahoma, Arial,
    Trebuchet? (I guess, from reading your other threads, you've been over this.)\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    are hard to produce and design, you need expertise, time, the right tools; all
    good type-designers (those who will, logically, produce the best fonts) are fully
    aware of this and feel/know they deserve compensation for their hard work. I'd
    love to produce quality typefaces and give them out, but the day I finally get
    the expertise and the tools and come up with the first one, it's possible that
    I'll think twice about that. After all, the tools cost money, the expertise might,
    too, and my time should probably have some value.\r\n\r\nYou should also know
    it's common for people to come here asking for free fonts (whatever for), and
    the very first ones might not have had this treatment, but by now this is the
    regular treatment; it's just become such a common thing that people here don't
    want to take the time to explain all of this and whatever else, because, for them,
    it's a repeating event. We easily forget that other people might not be aware
    of all this, regardless of how long they've been a member on this site.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    there's a lot of technical things you don't seem to be up-to-speed about, judging
    from your posts, and this forum is very specific; so much so that we usually prefer
    to discuss the technicalities over explaining little, now-to-us-seemingly-obvious
    things like how to increase letters in Fontlab or any other software. You might
    need to study more, read more, and search for answers before you ask. You know,
    browse the web, search help-files, search Typophile on Google (try the following
    on Google: site:typophile.com free fonts), etc.; many of the things we want to
    know are explained somewhere. Also, you might need to be more specific with what
    you're asking for and why so that people can really help you.\r\n\r\nIsn't there
    a page where the gist of this is explained? Can't we just direct people like Kevin
    to that instead of resorting to this\u2026? If not, why not just not answering
    them\u2026? Sure, ignoring people is wrong too, but blatantly alienating is worse\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    cancer? Really? Exaggerate much\u2026? You all might not care, but I want you
    to know I like you all and respect you and expect more than this."
  created: '2010-06-16 01:42:26'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: This hasn't been updated in a while, but you might start at [[Good Libre Fonts]]
  created: '2010-06-16 03:24:32'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "If anyone does create this font we're happy to host it on the Google Font
    API.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 03:28:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ruben,\r\nYou will be relieved to know that I don't even remotely have the
    power to inflict illness on anyone so Kevin is safe from Cancer by my doing. However,
    I am not apologizing to someone who comes in demanding with exclamation points
    and all caps:\r\n\r\n\"Hello people!\r\n\r\nI'm tired of Titillium and TitilliumText22L!
    It's not legible in small sizes or in 11, 13, 14px in the sites or blogs! ...\r\nI
    need a free and ORIGINAL font which...\"\r\n\r\nI am sick and tired of being the
    only profession on earth that some people assume all should work for free. What
    if Kevin walked into a car dealer and said:\r\n\r\n\"Hello people!\r\n\r\nI'm
    tired of MY KLUNKER! It's not drivable in small trips or long! ...\r\nI need a
    free and BRAND NEW Mercedes!...\"\r\n\r\nWould someone there kindly explain that
    cars take time and skill to build? No, it is just common sense that you get what
    you pay for. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 03:47:41'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Rubens and people, I want to tell the problem that I found and discovered.
    It wasn't Titillium, it was ClearType.\r\n\r\nAt house I tested the Windows Xp
    Professional and Windows Seven. At Windows Seven, I got surprised when I saw Titillium
    is totally legible and beautiful in the small sizes at my blogs. At Windows Xp
    Professional, I tested the Titillium font, it wasn't legible in the small sizes.
    Verdana, Veggieburger, Yanone Kaffeesastz, etc aren't legible in small sizes in
    this system either. But not because of the systems. I discovered it was ClearType.
    While Windows Seven has optimized and activated ClearType, Windows Xp profession
    hadn't optimized or activated the ClearType. I went to my friend's house who uses
    the Windows Xp Professional, I test the Titillium, it wasn't totally legible in
    the small sizes, when I changed to Arial, Helvetica and Verdana, I got frightened
    when I saw that Arial, Helvetica and Verdana aren't legible at all, became terrible,
    were distorted to pixels or bittamped. I also tested the high quality paid fonts
    at MyFonts.com in his computer, they weren't legible at all, were terrible! I
    understood that it was ClearType, it wasn't optimized or activated. I went to
    cyber cafe, I tested three computers which Windows XP Professionl, only in two
    computers they have optimized and activated ClearType, Titillium is totally legible
    and in another one computer happened the same thing that my friend's computer.
    \r\n\r\nBe alert about ClearType. \r\n\r\nI have to write a warning to the visiters
    and readers when they visit mu blog or site that they must correct or download
    the ClearType when the fonts aren't legible in their comouters.\r\n\r\nIf you
    don't know what ClearType, there's the links for you to learn:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/cleartype/tuner/step1.aspx\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ClearType"
  created: '2010-06-16 04:47:10'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Rubens\r\n\r\nBecause of you, I came back, first I answers your arguments
    but I want to tell the problem that I found, to you, it wasn't Titillium, it was
    ClearType.\r\n\r\n<em>These threads always make me want less to be on Typophile\u2026
    I really, honestly, hold you all up to a higher standard than this.</em>\r\nMe
    either.\r\n\r\n<em>What do you want this typeface for? To use it on websites,
    you'll have to either have it on Flash or an image of some kind or use some kind
    of @font-face thing (I'm not too familiar with those), because nobody will have
    this font on their systems and it won't show up on regular html text. Why not
    just use Verdana, Georgia, Tahoma, Arial, Trebuchet? (I guess, from reading your
    other threads, you've been over this.)</em>\r\n* I want this typeface for the
    blogs and sites. I've already used CSS @font-face from Kernest. I don't want to
    use the famous, pouplar and traditional fonts (Arial, Helvetica and Verdana) for
    my blogs and sites because many blogs with these fonts are similar. I don't like
    when all the blogs have same font and are similar. I want my blog or site be different
    and have different font.\r\n\r\n<em>Typefaces are hard to produce and design,
    you need expertise, time, the right tools; all good type-designers (those who
    will, logically, produce the best fonts) are fully aware of this and feel/know
    they deserve compensation for their hard work. I'd love to produce quality typefaces
    and give them out, but the day I finally get the expertise and the tools and come
    up with the first one, it's possible that I'll think twice about that. After all,
    the tools cost money, the expertise might, too, and my time should probably have
    some value.</em>\r\nIt's true. You're very right. :-(\r\n\r\n<em>You should also
    know it's common for people to come here asking for free fonts (whatever for),
    and the very first ones might not have had this treatment, but by now this is
    the regular treatment; it's just become such a common thing that people here don't
    want to take the time to explain all of this and whatever else, because, for them,
    it's a repeating event. We easily forget that other people might not be aware
    of all this, regardless of how long they've been a member on this site.</em>\r\nI
    agree with you again. You're very right. Since today, I stopped asking someone
    for the fonts. I won't ask ever/more their help. I'm tired of that ignorant and
    unsuportable or ubereable or \"ugly\" people of this forum. \r\n\r\n<em>Also,
    there's a lot of technical things you don't seem to be up-to-speed about, judging
    from your posts, and this forum is very specific; so much so that we usually prefer
    to discuss the technicalities over explaining little, now-to-us-seemingly-obvious
    things like how to increase letters in Fontlab or any other software. You might
    need to study more, read more, and search for answers before you ask. You know,
    browse the web, search help-files, search Typophile on Google (try the following
    on Google: site:typophile.com free fonts), etc.; many of the things we want to
    know are explained somewhere. Also, you might need to be more specific with what
    you're asking for and why so that people can really help you.</em>\r\nI have already
    made it. I always search, research for this and other goals. \r\n\r\n<em>Isn't
    there a page where the gist of this is explained? Can't we just direct people
    like Kevin to that instead of resorting to this\u2026? If not, why not just not
    answering them\u2026? Sure, ignoring people is wrong too, but blatantly alienating
    is worse\u2026</em>\r\nI agree totally with you. When I alerted, alarmed, counselled
    and gave the tips to the type designers about the danger of the pirate fonts and
    the lack of EULA, these type deisgner didn't hear, ignored me, they're still blind,
    easily d-u-p-e-s. I repented of having counselled them, because they made me of
    fool/silly/goof and after foolished. I repented again. But I'm not fool than them.
    They who are more fool than me by having ignored my counsels, joked about me and
    mocked of me. Therefore, I got out of this forum. The people of this forum aren't
    good, kind or humble. "
  created: '2010-06-16 04:49:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The problem is not Cleartype per se. The problem is more complex: Different
    operating systems and browsers use different rendering engines, different fonts
    have different amounts of hinting (a coding language that helps the rendering
    engines interpret curves as pixels at low resolutions) and different font smoothing
    settings and there\u2019s also different font formats.\r\n\r\nRendering on Windows
    is, by now, roughly 30% Greyscale \u2013 70% Cleartype. Greyscale is declining
    rapidly, and some time in the future we\u2019ll probably get DirectWrite which
    does a better job in some cases. \r\nThe pixellated look you see is a font displayed
    with Greyscale rendering that have the font smoothing settings turned off at some
    sizes (some think this helps readability). Too look good with those settings,
    you need A LOT of hinting. With Verdana, which is one of the best at this, the
    hinters spent years to get it right and the actual design of the letters also
    sort of confine to the pixel grid. (It\u2019s advanced.)\r\nAt Typekit the best
    fonts probably have more like a couple of days or weeks worth of hinting, which
    will make it look so-so with Greyscale rendering and fairly good with Cleartype
    rendering. The worst fonts are terrible, with no hinting or perhaps some autohinting,
    like Titillium (and it\u2019s also not a very good typeface in the first place,
    some people even felt it was a ripoff of another typeface called Klavika). This
    is the downside of typography being such a trendy thing nowadays: lot\u2019s of
    flash, not so much substance.\r\n\r\nMac OSX (the other large operating system)
    use something called Quartz rendering that makes everything smooth. People differ
    in opinions on whether it\u2019s good or not. (The idea is that letterforms are
    more important than fitting everything to the pixel grid.)\r\n\r\nSome Linux systems
    use Freetype rendering, which last time I checked look quite good indeed. This
    is a very low number, though.\r\n\r\nAs for your request for a squarish font that
    you can use with @font-face: Although it\u2019s not squarish, I think [[http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_nuvo_web/|FF
    Nuvo Web]] give a similar techy feel. It is also available via [[http://typekit.com/fonts/ff-nuvo-web-pro|Typekit]].
    Neither of these options are free, and it\u2019s up to you to decide between subcribtion
    and a one-time fee.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 09:07:55'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\n<cite>I want this typeface for the blogs and sites. I've already
    used CSS @font-face from Kernest. I don't want to use the famous, pouplar and
    traditional fonts (Arial, Helvetica and Verdana) for my blogs and sites because
    many blogs with these fonts are similar. I don't like when all the blogs have
    same font and are similar. I want my blog or site be different and have different
    font.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe sites are not primary similar because of the body text
    fonts! The meaning of fonts for the typographical quality of a website is overvalued
    on this board, because many people here have a financial interest in webfonts.
    Show me the websites, that are more attractive or more legible, because there
    are fonts for the body text embedded!\r\n\r\n@ Ethan\r\n\r\nWhat an arrogant reaction!
    I am sure, there are fields, on which other people are superior to you."
  created: '2010-06-16 09:38:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Forgive me, my numbers are off. They should read: roughly 30% of <em>every
    web visitor (all browsers and OS\u2019s)</em> will see their fonts rendered with
    Greyscale rendering."
  created: '2010-06-16 09:46:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "In addition, some professional desktop publishing applications have their
    own rendering engine, like for example Adobe Creative Suite.\r\n\r\nOlder Safari
    versions running on Windows also use a rendering similar to OSX\u2019s Quartz
    rendering.\r\n\r\nAs stated, this is complicated. Fonts that do a good job in
    all these situations are likely to cost money. Consider the fact that decent fonts
    in the first place \u2014 even before hinting \u2014 might take years to finish."
  created: '2010-06-16 10:45:24'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "@Kevin\r\nThis is what I was talking about (and indeed what I actually thought
    about, but forgot to mention in the heat of writing :P) when I wrote of technicalities.
    You might not be aware of this, but I've expressed my dislike of Cleartype in
    this forum (in fact, of all anti-aliasing at small sizes) and I never use it,
    always turn it off. With Cleartype on, you <em>can</em> use any typeface with
    some degree of safeness that the outlines will be maintained and that the typeface
    will be recognizable, but then you'll see that not only you still need a good
    typeface, with good hinting (which gives you a typeface which plays nice with
    anti-aliasing but also should with aliasing), but also you get this halo around
    letters which, to me, not only makes everything look blurry, but almost denies
    the fundamental idea of text which is that it is black ink on white paper. But
    that's just me, I always rub my eyes when I look at Cleartype text because I think
    I might have blurry vision. So you have to take into consideration that different
    people will see your sites differently because they'll have different computers,
    operating systems and overall definitions and setups.\r\n\r\n@Dezcom\r\nI know
    that. I understand that. And so do you. And that's why I expect better from regular
    and older users of Typophile. We are aware of all that and we should also be aware
    that some are not.\r\nWe always get caught up comparing type with other items,
    but we have to understand it's <em>not</em> the same as a car. It will never be.
    People feel entitled to letters; letters appear everywhere. They're free. You
    buy a computer, there they are. You can write stuff, print stuff. Type is comparable
    to not many things. And we should be aware of this. We can't act as if everybody
    who comes here should know what they won't. Type is not your ordinary product.
    It's mainly ideas in a digital bag, it's not a physical object, made with iron
    and rubber and what not. I mean, we know this, it's even silly for me to mention
    it, but we do have to understand that type is not a common product and can't really
    be compared with one; unless you're trying to make a point to explain this to
    someone, in which case it should be noted that you're just making a point.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I thought about what you said after posting and understood that it was probably
    a typical Yiddish joke, and I'm not one of those people who discriminate their
    humour (you know, call it \u201Cdark humour\u201D): I'll make a joke about 9/11
    or deformities as easily as a scatological joke, and hyperbole is one of my favourite
    types of humour, I don't care about the morality of humour. But still, we went
    from someone asking for something not <em>that</em> irrational to suggesting,
    even if it's under the guise of humour, that he should get cancer. That's a bit
    of a stretch. Besides, I think you're not even like me in that respect; you do
    always display a great sense of humour and an enjoyment in building and sharing
    jokes, but I believe you do impose some limits on it, so it seemed out of place
    that you'd not only make such a joke, but use it as a throwing weapon. (I'm sorry
    for writing as if I know you, but, you know\u2026 I hang around here, I read what
    you write; so I kind of <em>do</em> know you.)\r\n\r\nI didn't say we should apologize
    for people like Kevin, and you know that. The truth is, he wasn't acting as if
    type designers should work for free, because that would imply that he was fully
    informed on what he was saying. He was just asking for something that, to him,
    sounded reasonable. We shouldn't apologize for them, but we do have a lead role
    in presenting them with the data and in raising awareness of these things.\r\n\r\nMusic
    had (and still has) this same problem that type has, but some steps have been
    taken in order to protect the industry. With iTunes, for example, they made buying
    music cool, so people developed a notion that it should be payed for.\r\n\u2026
    but maybe it really shouldn't! Can't you see it both ways? Don't you understand
    it both ways? I mean, it's just soundwaves. If I walk around on the street, I'll
    eventually hear it. Type is in a somewhat similar position (although it's a tool
    and music is mostly entertainment), and people don't understand that. There's
    MyFonts or Fontshop, but they're not iTunes for fonts because they're not famous
    or popular enough.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I just think we should always display some fairplay
    in these situations and it makes me sad that we don't. It makes me sad to see
    intolerant reactions from people whom I consider to be grown-up, smart, cultivated
    and thus indeed tolerant.\r\nAnd there I go writing a lot again. I'm sorry for
    that."
  created: '2010-06-16 11:22:19'
- author:
    name: nathanielpr
  body: "hey, new guy here.\r\n\r\nhas anyone considered pushing for a \"new to the
    forum\" section? this is pretty much SOP on forums, and can help alleviate the
    pains of commonly asked questions that shouldn't be asked."
  created: '2010-06-16 13:42:06'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Frank\r\n<em>The problem is not Cleartype per se. The problem is more complex:
    Different operating systems and browsers use different rendering engines, different
    fonts have different amounts of hinting (a coding language that helps the rendering
    engines interpret curves as pixels at low resolutions) and different font smoothing
    settings and there\u2019s also different font formats.</em>\r\nExactly! You've
    much reason and are very right. I was going to preview how the font FF Nuvo Web
    Pro looked in various browsers of each operating system, I tested and realized
    much different among the appearence of the letters in each browser of each operating
    system, with or without ClearType. I think I have to cintinue using Titillium,
    if the visitors and readers complain about me, I have to change the font to Verdana
    or increase the size, but I'll continue using the Titillium for the images and
    Flash images or animations. \r\n\r\n<em>The worst fonts are terrible, with no
    hinting or perhaps some autohinting, like Titillium (and it\u2019s also not a
    very good typeface in the first place, some people even felt it was a ripoff of
    another typeface called Klavika). This is the downside of typography being such
    a trendy thing nowadays: lot\u2019s of flash, not so much substance</em>\r\nIf
    you don't continue I continue using the Titillium, I'll buy the two or three fonts
    Klavika soonly, not only this typeface, I must buy the other fonts too. But I
    don't have time of going to the bank for making the credit cards and buying the
    fonts. \r\n\r\n@Rubens\r\nYou're very right and have the same opinions that Frank
    has. I accept your counsels and tips. I learned with Frank about the hinting and
    the appearance of various different browsers of each operating system and now
    I learned with you again about the hinting. \r\n\r\n@Armo\r\n<em>Show me the websites,
    that are more attractive or more legible, because there are fonts for the body
    text embedded!</em>\r\nMy blog is private. "
  created: '2010-06-16 14:29:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "At Typekit, there\u2019s also a tab called \u201Cbrowser samples\u201D connected
    to each typeface that might be helpful. \r\n\r\nI hope you understand the amount
    of work creating decent type takes. That\u2019s why you were met with laughter
    and sarcasm."
  created: '2010-06-16 14:40:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "kevinthepeople> Be alert about ClearType. \r\n\r\nYes, we understand this
    and many of us are working hard to help solve this problem. We have been working
    to expand the best web text families, and to create a new suite of text-only font
    families in a variety of styles, and to add meta data to fonts. To get around
    the combination Quartz/Standard-Cleartype-None solution to the 20-year transition/non-transition
    of users from aliased to antialiased text type on a broadening variety of screens
    is hard work. \r\n\r\nMany people here are working on and supporting readers in
    developing simple- and inexpensive-to-use products, but they will not soon be
    offered by foundries alone, as many have pointed out <em>it's expensive.</em>
    Until more OS/Foundation/Web-Based Enterprise awaken to this issue, free fonts
    like your not entirely unreasonable specification, are somewhere in the future.
    \r\n\r\nIn the mean time, I suggest kevinthepeople evaluate how important the
    early adoption of an @fontface-based visual text identity is to you? You must
    please excuse some of the truly hysterical responses here. I've already been hysterical,
    others are still working it out.\r\n\r\nDex> I am working on a similar font, it
    is called \"The Emperors New Clothes\"\r\n\r\nWe've already been through this,
    The Emperors New Clothes is what got k.t.people here.:)\r\n\r\nEthan> I'd like
    to hear how Berlow would respond.\r\n\r\nAnd, it reminds me of Rosalind Russell's
    line, hand on hip I think, in <em>His Girl Friday</em>:\r\n\"<strong>Gentlemen</strong>
    of the press!?\", except that the badgered girl is not going to jump out the window,
    and she's not alone by a few billion. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 14:45:45'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\n<cite>My blog is private.</cite>\r\n\r\n(Like this one?: http://giraffenland.de/images/Pferd_tagebuch.gif)\r\n\r\nIn
    other words, your blog is the only website, about which you know, that it is different
    because of the embedded fonts. (That\u2019s more, than I know at the moment.)"
  created: '2010-06-16 15:01:55'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Armo, yes, it's, it's only for my friends, relatives and the known that
    I know and I trust, I want to limit the number of 100 readers, because they want
    to imitate my blog, steal my favourite fonts and my images that I created. A blogger
    visited my blog, was crazy to imitate my blog and my favourite font \u2014 Aller
    and Aller Display, in other days, I visited his blog, I recognized the fonts that
    he was using and the new images that he created by himself, imitating the mine.
    He was so jealous of me for calling the attention of the people. When he posted
    an humour post, I wrote a comment wihout realizing his jokes and provokes, in
    the following day, they joked with me and I got embarrassed. I closed my blog
    and I stopped being member of his blog."
  created: '2010-06-16 15:25:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: How old are you Kevin?
  created: '2010-06-16 15:33:04'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: 'Frank, didn''t you see my birth date at my profile? Click in my profile. '
  created: '2010-06-16 15:34:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "No, you\u2019ve set it to \u201Cprivate\u201D."
  created: '2010-06-16 15:37:15'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: 'Frank, I''m 23 years old. '
  created: '2010-06-16 15:38:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Well, Kevin, free fonts like Aller get attention all over the internet. It\u2019s
    not the best way to be unique. And if someone copies your work, don\u2019t worry
    \u2019bout it. Just stay original!"
  created: '2010-06-16 15:45:34'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Kevin: Does Delicious work for you?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/delicious.html\r\n\r\nNick:
    Very clever. But I suggest the name iFont."
  created: '2010-06-16 16:05:58'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: 'Renaissance, Kernest and Typekit don''t have Delicious. I need it for CSS
    @font-face. '
  created: '2010-06-16 16:41:34'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\nYou don\u2019t need Kernest or Typekit for using webfonts.
    Check the EULA of Delicious and embedd the font data, if the license allows that.
    But you will probably be uncontented with the look on screen, because it is PostScript
    flavored OpenType."
  created: '2010-06-16 18:05:04'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Armo\r\n\r\nI found, copied and pasted here:\r\n4.b.IV. Direct Linking or
    Embedded Opentype Files with \r\nthe @font-face CSS property (ONLY for FREE fonts)\r\nIf
    the font is a free font ($0.00 license fee), you may use this font for Font-Face
    embedding, but only if you put a link to www.exljbris.nl on your page and/or put
    this notice /* A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris) -> www.exljbris.com */ in your
    CSS file as near as possible to the piece of code that declares the Font-Face
    embedding of this font."
  created: '2010-06-16 18:44:36'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: '@Armo, does he mean I can use his fonts for @CSS font-face for mu blog?'
  created: '2010-06-16 18:49:07'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: Armo, I don't know to put it. How do I put?
  created: '2010-06-16 18:59:13'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>@Armo [sic!], does he mean I can use his fonts for @CSS font-face for
    mu blog?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, you only have to put link and notice on your page
    and the CSS file. And Jos Buivenga provides more free fonts, but not only Delicious.\r\n\r\nBut
    non of the fonts will be as legible as Verdana, Georgia, Trebuchet MS ans so on
    in 11, 13, 14px."
  created: '2010-06-16 19:01:41'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Arno, sorry for having written your name so the size of your's letters is
    small, I confonded \"rn\" with \"m\". For example:\r\n\r\n@font-face {\r\nfont-family:\"Delicious\";\r\nsrc:url(http://www.josbuivenga.demon.nl/delicious.html);\r\n}\r\n\r\nAm
    I right?"
  created: '2010-06-16 19:22:32'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Armo, I don't know to put it. How do I put?</cite>\r\n\r\nAr<strong>n</strong>o.\r\n\r\nYou
    probably mean, how to put the font into the CSS?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/#the-font-face-rule\r\nhttp://people.mozilla.org/~jkew/woff/\r\nhttp://www.motobit.com/util/base64-decoder-encoder.asp\r\nhttp://www.fourmilab.ch/webtools/base64/\r\n\r\n@font-face
    {\r\nfont-family:\"FONT-FAMILY-NAME\";\r\nsrc:url(data:font/woff;base64,BASE-64-CODE);\r\n}\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 19:32:23'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: CSS3 Fonts site that you gave me is very interesting.
  created: '2010-06-16 19:37:59'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: 'I searched for Base64 code at Wikipedia. I unknow this. '
  created: '2010-06-16 19:47:01'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "No. You have to link to the source of the font data. Jos wants, that you
    put this into your CSS file:\r\n<code>/* A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris) ->
    www.exljbris.com  */</code>\r\n\r\nThis notice would be unvisible for the visitor
    of your site, as long as he doesn\u2019t open the CSS file.\r\n\r\nAlternatively
    or additionally you can put a visible link on your site."
  created: '2010-06-16 19:49:47'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: Do I put the code /* A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris) -> www.exljbris.com
    */ on after the url of src code or on the code < head >?
  created: '2010-06-16 19:54:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "You have to put this into the CSS:\r\n\r\n<code>@font-face {\r\nfont-family:\"FONT-FAMILY-NAME\";\r\nsrc:url(data:font/woff;base64,BASE-64-CODE);\r\n}\r\n\r\n/*
    A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris) -> www.exljbris.com  */</code>\r\n\r\nYou only
    have to convert the OTF to WOFF and encode WOFF as Base64. Or you can convert
    the OTF directly to Base64. In this case you also should change the filetype after
    \"data\".\r\n\r\nBut Kevin, if all this is so new for you, I wonder, why you think,
    that just the font will improve your web page.\r\n\r\nHave a look into the <strong><a
    href=\"http://www.csszengarden.com/\">CSS Zen Garden</a></strong>, if you want
    to get an impression from the power of CSS. The meaning of embedded body text
    fonts is totally unimportant with regard to that, what makes websites different
    from others. Actually! This may partly change in future."
  created: '2010-06-16 20:01:50'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: Arno, I think I understood. First I put the code /* A font... */ on the head.
    (I have just just converted Delicious OTF to Base64-CODE, oh, the the number of
    letters and numbers is big!). Now, in second place, I copy and paste the BASE64-CODE
    on after the code url of src? I must put the font's name on the font-family?
  created: '2010-06-16 20:22:46'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: Why can't I put the Delicious.otf on the url?
  created: '2010-06-16 20:24:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: With regard to the font family name I am not sure, if it must be the original
    family name. Just google a bit. And I am not sure, if you are allowed to store
    Delicious outside the CSS on the server. Send Jos a mail and ask him.
  created: '2010-06-16 20:44:16'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: OK, Arno! Thank you a lot for your help!
  created: '2010-06-16 20:54:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\nThere neither should be line breaks nor spaces in the base64
    code. The base64 code must be in one line. This was more difficult, than I thought.
    UltraEdit seems to dislike such long lines. I just had trouble with that in Ultraedit
    (and the first crash with UltraEdit). And the font-family has not necessarily
    to be be called Delicious. You can take the name of your choice."
  created: '2010-06-16 22:36:49'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Kevin, drop me an e-mail and I\u2019ll help you set up the CSS and font files.
    It\u2019s really quite easy."
  created: '2010-06-16 23:01:14'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\nI am just writing an example html file with embedded CSS and
    the six Delicious styles. I will attach it a little bit later, because of the
    problems with Ultraedit, that I actually have."
  created: '2010-06-16 23:46:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\nThe zip file contains a HTML file, in which the six styles of
    Delicious are embedded: http://www8.zippyshare.com/v/28264337/file.html"
  created: '2010-06-17 00:35:59'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Goody, now you don\u2019t need me :)"
  created: '2010-06-17 00:44:53'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: Thank you a lot, Arno, I understood your test's HTML, but do I put this HTML
    on the code "head" or on the code "body"'s end of Blogger's HTML?
  created: '2010-06-17 03:31:16'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>I understood your test's HTML, but do I put this HTML on the code \"head\"
    or on the code \"body\"'s end of Blogger's HTML?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou should put
    the CSS into a separate file with the extension .css.\r\nAnd in the head of the
    HTML file you insert the line \u2026\r\n\r\n<code>&lt;link rel=\"stylesheet\"
    media=\"screen,projection\" href=\"nameOfTheCSSfile.css\" title=\"schm8-style\"
    type=\"text/css\"&gt;</code>\r\n\r\n\u2026 while the media-attribute is just an
    example. You can, for example, provide different CSS for print and screen.\r\n\r\nBut
    in earnest, Kevin, because you obviously don\u2019t know much about HTML and CSS,
    what makes you believe, that your blog will not look similar to other blogs? Your
    aim was making it look different \u2013 individual. And you did ask for a body
    text font. Except from the fact, that <em>different</em> does not necessarily
    mean <em>better</em>, the body text font will not make your blog to something,
    that is really individual. Even, if you would invest much money into a commercial
    font family, it will not improve your blog, if you miss the basic knowledge about
    hand coded webdesign (and naturally the feeling for and knowledge about graphic
    design).\r\n\r\nIf you understand German, I can recommend <strong><a href=\"http://selfhtml.org/\">SELFHTML</a></strong>
    (also available in French), <strong><a href=\"http://www.css4you.de/\">CSS4you</a></strong>
    and the <strong><a href=\"http://xhtmlforum.de/\">XHTMLforum</a>.</strong>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I strongly recommend the book <strong><a href=\"http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596527334/\">CSS
    \u2013 The Definitive Guide</a></strong>. From the four books, that I have about
    CSS, it is the only one, that really is worth to have. It is very good."
  created: '2010-06-17 07:08:58'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Arno, thank you a lot again!\r\n\r\n*I don't speak German yet, but I'll
    study this language soonly. But I can speak in French, Spanish and Portuguese.
    \r\n*I'm going to keep your informations (Font-Face Rules, WOFFs, Base64, your
    test's HTML, the HTML's head code, SelfHtml and the book CSS \u2014 The Definitive
    Guide).\r\n*I won't buy this book because I cut the credit cards. Maybe in the
    next months I'll make a credit card, I prefer buying it with the money, but I
    see many shops demand the credit card, when I buy with the credit card, I'll pay
    it with the money, I don't want to buy it with the credit card and without the
    money because I would be indebted.\r\n*As you told I don't know much about HTML
    and CSS, but I do know enought only about HTML, I understood some codes because
    I learned with my friens who are graphic designers and web designers, which taught
    me a lot, with the blogs or sites of tips and teachings about HTML. I've HTML
    e-books. I don't know only the CSS because I don't learn and understand it yet."
  created: '2010-06-17 14:38:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Kevin\r\n\r\nAre there no local bookshops in Canada? I had posted the link
    to the website of the publishing house. This book is also available from Amazon."
  created: '2010-06-17 15:53:42'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Arno\r\n\r\n*There are, but I'm lazy of go shopping. (lol)\r\n*I still have
    a doubt.\r\n\r\nI know how to put the code on the head as you taught me, but I'll
    copy the big parte of the code body from start to end of the group (first to last
    Delicious fonts) and the codes .Delicious and paste on after the code body? And
    in each code group, for example, #header .description, #outer-wrapper, h2, etc.,
    will I copy and paste the @font-face and the /* A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris)
    -> www.exljbris.com  */  on before each code (header, outer-wrapper, h2, etc.)?
    Wll I paste the src:url(data:font/woff;base64,BASE-64-CODE); on after the code
    font or font-family? I'll copy one part of my HTML'S blog on the notepad and transform
    it as image PNG for you to see the exmaple:\r\n\r\nIn place of this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Code_3537.PNG]\r\n\r\nNow,
    see the exmaple:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Code II_4763.PNG]\r\n\r\nIs
    it right? If not, please correct this."
  created: '2010-06-17 16:36:37'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "No, it is not right. First you should put either quotation marks or apostrophes
    around \"Titillium Text\" because of the space in the string \"Titillium Text\"
    (in both cases not the typographical ones, but either Unicode 0022 or 0027). For
    the same reason you can omit the apostrophes around the string \"Delicious\".\r\n\r\nFurthermore
    you have put the @font-face into a declaration block.\r\n\r\n<code>@font-face
    {\r\n/* A font by Jos Buivenga (exljbris) -> www.exljbris.com  */\r\nfont-family:
    Delicious;\r\nfont-style: normal;\r\nfont-weight: bold;\r\nsrc:url(data:font/woff;base64,BASE-64-CODE
    of Delicious-Bold.woff);\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\n<code>#header h1 {\r\nmargin: 5px
    5px 0;\r\npadding: 15px 20px .25em;\r\nline-height: 1.2em;\r\ntext-transform:
    uppercase;\r\nletter-spacing: .2em;\r\nfont: normal bold 200% Delicious, \"Titillium
    Text\", \"Trebuchet MS\", Trebuchet, sans-serif;\r\n/* I prefer not to use the
    shorthand for the font styling. And, as far as I remember, Trebuchet was ever
    called \"Trebuchet MS\". \"Trebuchet\" can probably be omitted. */\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    should work. By the way, I thought, that you already have used Titillium. How
    could your visitors access Titillium in the past?"
  created: '2010-06-17 18:11:40'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Arno, with Kernest.com's CSS @font-face, the vistors could see the different
    font. \r\n\r\nWe're arriving to the end lesson.\r\n\r\nIn the place of BASE-64-CODE
    of Delicious-Bold.woff, will I copy and paste the BASE'64's code (that big number
    of numbers and letters mixtured...) that you've put in the your Delicious' test
    HTML? Or do I need to convert teh Delicious OTF to WOFF and after WOFF to Base64?"
  created: '2010-06-17 18:35:21'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: '@Arno, can I put the other five fonts groups between the @font-face and the
    #header? Can I put the six fonts groups before each code group (for example, outer-wrapper,
    h2, .post, etc.)'
  created: '2010-06-17 18:41:05'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "The @font-face-declaration-blocks should be at the top of the css file, because
    I assume, that you would not get access to the fonts, if they would be below the
    blocks, in which the fonts are declared.\r\n\r\nAnd the base64 code, that is contained
    in my HTML file, is ready for use. Just copy and paste the blocks. You don\u2019t
    have to convert anything anymore in case of Delicious, except you want to encode
    the source font (OTF in this case), but not the woff as base64. But the woff files
    are compressed and therefore you spare storage.\r\n\r\nWith @font-face you define
    the font \u2013 comparable with the installation of a font. And later you use
    it. I doubt, that you could use it, if it is defined later.\r\n\r\nDelicious-Bold.otf:
    24.648 kilobytes\r\nDelicious-Bold.woff: 15.092 kilobytes\r\n\r\n<cite>@Arno,
    with Kernest.com's CSS @font-face, the vistors could see the different font.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    will check that. I did not use @font-face before.\r\n\r\nEdited:\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    know, what your visitors have seen there, but in my test it does not work. I am
    not surprised."
  created: '2010-06-17 19:22:01'
- author:
    name: Northbay
    picture: 111583
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t know, what your visitors have seen there, but in my test
    it does not work. I am not surprised.<cite>\r\n\r\nHahaha.. I might be too tired
    (2AM here), but I just died laughing reading that.\r\n\r\nThis thread really is
    really something else. I have to admit I switched sides quite a few times in the
    Newbie vs Typophile war.\r\n\r\nI'm off to bed. I'll read this again tomorrow
    and see if it makes any sense."
  created: '2010-06-19 01:15:11'
- author:
    name: gabriel00
    picture: 120118
  body: BEST. THREAD. EVER.
  created: '2010-06-19 20:48:14'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Check back with us in 2024.
  created: '2010-06-19 23:32:23'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "That's very difficult. I made that all, it didn't work in my blog. I didn't
    understand why. :-( \r\nI think I have to desist of that. :-(\r\nI have to study
    a lot, a lot and a lot the HTML and CSS for discovering the secret...\r\nThen
    I continue using the font \"Titillium Text 22 L\". It's all OK. "
  created: '2010-06-20 01:35:21'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Mike Jarbone\r\n\r\nWe all are going to die in 2012. (lol/lmao)"
  created: '2010-06-20 01:36:45'
- author:
    name: rubenDmarkes
  body: "LOL\r\nThank you for playing, everyone! :P\r\n\r\nKevin: you're welcome.
    :P\r\nThat last statement was very enlightened of you. I think we can all agree
    that it is a good idea for you to learn more about HTML and CSS. Good luck! And
    don't forget you also need to take into account anti-aliasing technologies, varying
    user systems, different browsers\u2026 etc., etc.. These are complex fields, webdesign,
    programming and type."
  created: '2010-06-20 10:24:49'
- author:
    name: pers0n
  body: "here are some serifs that work at small sizes\r\n\r\ntimes new roman\r\ndroid
    serif\r\n\r\nyou might look at pixel serif fonts also, but they might not look
    good in anything but flash sites"
  created: '2010-06-24 22:49:41'
date: '2010-06-15 13:30:51'
title: I'm tired of Titillium that isn't legible in small font sizes! I need a sans-serif
  font which be totally legible in small sizes!

---
