---
author:
  name: Bert Vanderveen
  picture: 109809
body: "It\u2019s done (at last!):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/font-editor/fontographer/\r\n\r\nLooks
  promising. And in this thread Yuri comments on some of the features that will be
  included in a coming release and what is already included:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/65415\r\n\r\nHow
  come there has not been an official press release here already?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBert"
comments:
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Looks good . . . ooh. So, this will essentially be the lower end version of
    FontLab, right? If that's the case what's the recommended upgrade path for Typetool
    users? Should they be waiting around for a Typetool upgrade to be released? Cos
    I often recommend Typetool for beginners.
  created: '2010-06-18 15:55:34'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Fontographer will exist in parallel to FontLab Studio/TypeTool line. While
    it can be considered a \"middle\" product, its target audience is different. \r\n\r\nFontographer
    is a full-scale font editor for those who want to draw, not engineer fonts. TypeTool
    can be considered an entry point into FontLab Studio, which will always be a top-line
    tool for those who make fonts for living :)\r\n\r\nWith Fog5 release and its support
    for VFB font data format, it can be easily integrated into FontLab Studio-based
    workflow, as a \"drawing tool\". "
  created: '2010-06-18 16:20:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "As Yuri says: we consider Fontographer 5 as an \"alternative UI\" over FontLab
    Studio. Both editors are full-scale font editors, with the following difference:
    \r\n* FontLab Studio allows precise control over all aspects of the font, and
    includes several different ways to draw outlines (PostScript Bezier curves, TrueType
    B-splines, Sketch mode, VectorPaint etc.), has a number of different panels, Python
    scripting, class kerning, Font Info and Preference windows that go over dozens
    of pages. \r\n* Fontographer includes lots of automated algorithms for things
    like family naming, linespacing, autohinting, and just has, principally, \"one
    solid method\" to do each thing. Its user interface is simpler than that of FLS.
    \r\n\r\nBut both editor produce high-quality fonts with pretty much all of OpenType
    font format's functionality (though Fontographer does not have a built in OT feature
    editor, you can use an external text editor to write the feature definitions).
    \r\n\r\nTypeTool is a good entry point to FontLab Studio. People who learn TypeTool
    will be able to switch to FontLab Studio at some point. Fontographer is different,
    so switching from TypeTool to Fontographer or from Fontographer to FontLab Studio
    means, that you have to le-learn some things. But many will find that Fontographer
    is \"just the thing\" for them, probably those who find TypeTool too simple and
    FontLab Studio too complex :)  \r\n\r\nAlso: TypeTool is $99, Fontographer is
    $399, FontLab Studio is $649. So it's our approach of making a line of products
    at different pricing points, so everyone can find something for her or his pocket.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, the official <a href=\"http://forum.fontlab.com/fontographer-b8.0/\">discussion
    board</a> for Fontographer 5 is open. We're gathering feature suggestions for
    future versions at the \"Fontographer Wish List\" sub-board there. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam
    Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-18 16:58:54'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Thanks Yuri & Adam. I'll keep guiding beginners toward TypeTool. \r\n\r\nAre
    there aspects of Fontographer 5 which are sort of a sneak preview of what's coming
    in the next Fontlab?"
  created: '2010-06-19 03:26:23'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "<em>Are there aspects of Fontographer 5 which are sort of a sneak preview
    of what's coming in the next Fontlab?</em>\r\n\r\nSearch feature (with Unicode
    name support) is definitely one of them, followed by cleaned font info."
  created: '2010-06-19 09:48:45'
- author:
    name: keith
    picture: 109891
  body: "Two days into Fontographer 5 and I've still got a smile on my face. You've
    done a wonderful job \u2014 it looks beautiful, it feels great to use, and all
    the old keyboard commands are with my slippers, pipe and rocking chair next to
    the dog. Thank you FontLab for keeping faith with the faithful and breathing new
    life into our worthy old friend. I'm sure it can't have been easy to consolidate
    old and new coding, improve the functionality yet still retain the essential identity
    and superbly intuitive drawing tools of Fog, but you have succeeded, and I send
    you a big, heartfelt thankyou!\r\n\r\nKeith / K-Type\L\r\nManchester UK"
  created: '2010-06-21 09:47:04'
- author:
    name: G T
    picture: 128201
  body: "So how are the drawing tools of Fog different from those in Fontlab?\r\n\r\nI've
    used the latter a bit. I'm mostly used to Illustrator, so which would people say
    is closer to Illustrator methods?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nG T"
  created: '2010-06-22 12:53:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "G T, \r\n\r\nneither Fontographer nor FontLab Studio are perfect clones of
    anything, but I would say that Fontographer is closer to Freehand and FontLab
    Studio is closer to Illustrator. But FontLab Studio's drawing tools have also
    been heavily inspired by Fontographer (to ease the transition). In general, Fontographer
    is simpler in the sense that there is practically one way to draw, while in FontLab
    Studio there are numerous ways. \r\n\r\nI would say that the best method is to
    download demo versions of both applications (available from http://www.fontlab.com
    ) and give them both a try. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-22 13:42:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Keith, \r\n\r\nI'm very happy to hear your feedback. Indeed, what you're
    describing was our goal for this release, and I'm glad that you think we've succeeded.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-22 13:43:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's too late for me to go back now, after acclimatizing to FontLab for many
    years.\r\nHowever, I do like the sound of automated family naming. Can we have
    that in FontLab too?!"
  created: '2010-06-23 22:40:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nyes. One of the ideas behind Fontographer 5 was to test out
    some new ideas in a product that does not have such an extremely established current
    user base (Fontographer, that is), and then move the best ones to the flagship
    product (FontLab Studio), on which we are working right now. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-23 22:57:17'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>However, I do like the sound of automated family naming. Can we have
    that in FontLab too?!</cite>\r\n\r\nI prefer to set the names on the field \"Additional
    OpenType names\" in FontLab. Although you can import the names to that field in
    FontLab, I would dislike fantasy names like \"typographic family\". You will neither
    find that name in any specification nor is the Four-styles-sub-family (Windows
    GDI) not a typographic family. But you are right, that the names field is better
    in Fontographer 5.\r\n\r\nThe scrollable list on the field \"Additional OpenType
    names\" would profit from a bigger panel in FontLab Studio. And required namerecords
    could be marked with a different color. The screen is big enough for bigger info
    and option panels. Using FontLab on a netbook does not make much sense. Alternatively
    a full size modus for the option and the info panel would be helpful in FLS."
  created: '2010-06-23 23:29:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nI really like what you guys have done in BitFonter 3 with the
    \"font info\" panels--where you have that pop-up that lets you filter out the
    fields that are irrelevant for the font format you're targeting. I would love
    to have that in FontLab Studio."
  created: '2010-06-23 23:40:56'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Arno, while I respect your \"programmer's\" approach to font naming (and
    I confess that I often work the same way) that one was added because we had no
    better idea for naming (including non-English) at that time. Direct access to
    the name table was a \"last resort\" for those who need a full control over naming.\r\n\r\nThere
    was at least two products after that which gave us much better understanding of
    font naming: both in font formats and applications. What you can find in Fog5
    is a simplified implementation of the \"font names theory\" which is done by Adam
    in a past year.\r\n\r\nWe are not planning to completely remove name table editor
    from future FLS, but since Font info will be completely re-done in FLS7 (and improved
    in FLS6), I hope that eventually you will agree that new names for font names
    is a good thing :)"
  created: '2010-06-24 09:31:10'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Yuri\r\n\r\nI think the main problem with the actual name panel of FontLab
    is not, that the name-descriptions are cryptical in a way, that there is a need
    to change them to fantasy names, but the fact, that the names are used for different
    purposes dependent from the font format, that you generate. In case of Type 1
    the user has to care about the field \"Menu Name\". In case of OpenType he hasn\u2019t.
    The field \"Family Name\" can have different meanings. In case of Type 1 it is
    the typographic family name. In case of OpenType it is dependent from the content
    of the fields on the OpenType-specific panel. If the fields on that panel are
    empty, the \"family name\" goes to both platforms, Mac/NameID-1 and PC/NameID-1.
    If they are not empty, it goes to PC/NameID-1 only. And NameID 4 should be dependent
    from the flavor (PostScript or TrueType). But FontLab always imports the PostScript
    name to PC/NameID-4.\r\n\r\n<cite>We are not planning to completely remove name
    table editor from future FLS</cite>\r\n\r\nIf this means, that you want to remove
    it partly, I am disappointed. I think, that more people would use it, if the panel
    wouldn\u2019t be so damn small. You loose the orientation in a scrollable list,
    in which only a few lines are visible. And I have another idea: Next to every
    NID-PID-line should be a question mark. If the user clicks on the question mark,
    a field with the info about the name, which is taken from the specification, should
    pop up. So please keep in mind, that simplification is not necessarily less confusing,
    but ask yourself instead, whether the reason for the confusion with the names
    were the many sections and the cryptical names, or the different handling for
    the different font file formats. The user should not compelled to change a name,
    if he wants to generate another font format, except from PC/NameID-4. But in case
    of PC/NameID-4 the line could be split. And all this could be improved with one
    or two decent mark colors.\r\nAnother improvement would be an item (question mark)
    next to all fields, that popups a customizable help on click.\r\n\r\nI hope I
    did not make mistakes in this message with regard to the meaning of the names,
    but the panels are so confusing, that I always have to be very concentrated and
    in the work of font naming, when I try to remember the meaning. And the last time,
    that I have generated a Type 1 font, was a year ago. (This does not mean, that
    FontLab shall not care about Type 1 naming anymore!)\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-24 10:32:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> If this means, that you want to remove it partly, I am disappointed. \r\n\r\nNo,
    it does not. Come on. \r\n\r\nHave you looked at the naming editor in Fontographer
    5? \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2010-06-24 11:42:24'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\n<cite>If this means, that you want to remove it partly, I am
    disappointed.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is regarding to the name table editor. Fontographer
    does not have a name table editor."
  created: '2010-06-24 11:50:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Well, the name table editor will stay as it is in FLS. Maybe sans some bugs. '
  created: '2010-06-24 11:56:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"Arno Enslin\" -- <cite>the main problem with the actual name panel of FontLab
    is [...] that the names are used for different purposes dependent from the font
    format</cite>\r\n\r\nThen you should love FM which has separate sets of names
    for different font formats.\r\n\r\nWith FM, FLS5 and FOG5, there is a font naming
    interface and generation method for everyone, from completely-manually over semi-automatic
    to completely-automatic. Each approach has its advantages and disadvantages. I
    am pretty happy that this kind of automatism finally made it into a font editor.
    No need any more for worries and how-tos. Make a WWS-compliant/WPF-compatible
    family without much ado. What more do you want?\r\n\r\n\"Arno Enslin\" -- <cite>That
    is regarding to the name table editor. Fontographer does not have a name table
    editor. [...] Another [FLS] improvement would be an item (question mark) next
    to all fields, that popups a customizable help on click.</cite>\r\n\r\nFOG never
    had a name table editor. It doesn't need one. FOG is meant to make making fonts
    easy. Obviously your needs and FOG's features are incompatible, so your complaint
    just doesn't make sense. Also, font editors serve to make fonts first of all,
    not to modify them. Even FLS is not ideal for the latter task for which other
    tools exist (like OTM which provides a description next to each name table record).\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-24 16:50:47'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Karsten\r\n\r\nYou seem to have dragged my post out of the context. The
    context was a question from Nick <cite>(However, I do like the sound of automated
    family naming. Can we have that in FontLab too?!)</cite> and one of Yuri\u2019s
    posts."
  created: '2010-06-24 17:45:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Context of this discussion is FOG5 and its naming interface.
  created: '2010-06-24 21:00:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: I must admit that I'm quite relieved that DTL released OTMaster, because combining
    very high-level and very low-level stuff under one hood in FontLab Studio is what
    made the app so complex. The combination of fontTools/TTX (where you can postprocess
    fonts in batch mode) and DTL OTMaster (where you can do it in a GUI) is very convenient.
  created: '2010-06-24 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Karsten, \r\n\r\ndon't be so hard on Arno, I think he may have not quite
    realized that it's the \"Fontographer 5 released\" thread. I think I know what
    he mans. \r\n\r\nTherefore, Arno, \r\n\r\n(and others): I'd be very keen on your
    opinions on the FOG5 naming interface, and in general on Font Info in FOG5. Not
    in the context of comparison with FLS5, but on its own. :)\r\n\r\nBTW, in FOG,
    the fields are not \"repurposed\" differently, i.e. we tried to make it really
    consistant. \r\n\r\nThe reasons why it's the way it is in FLS5 are purely historical,
    and we'll rearrange them to make much more sense. "
  created: '2010-06-24 21:25:08'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Karsten\r\n\r\n<cite>Context of this discussion is FOG5 and its naming
    interface.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s absurd. I wrote, that I was regarding to
    FontLab Studio. And I replied to a comment of Nick.\r\n\r\nExcept from that, this
    is senseless:\r\n\r\n<cite>Also, font editors serve to make fonts first of all,
    not to modify them.</cite>\r\n\r\nWho says that? And why do you think, that it
    is important, to make me aware of that? It is regardless of whether you name or
    rename a font. And after our discussion on the FontLab forum about naming you
    should know, that I am technically competent with regard to the internal names.
    More than many professionals. For me the naming with FontLab Studio is annoying,
    but absolute no hurdle.\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\n@ Adam\r\n\r\nMaybe I should create
    an image of a better panel for FLS in Photoshop and post it in a new topic. It
    would be not so different from the original panel, as you may think. I already
    wrote, that my problem was not primary the panel, but the different meaning of
    the names with regard to the font formats."
  created: '2010-06-24 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: We probably should write a short tech note on how "new naming" in Fog5 works
    and where all these names go in each format.
  created: '2010-06-24 22:11:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Yuri\r\n\r\n  &lt;name&gt;\r\n&lt;!-- M A C - S E C T I O N --&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Copyright notice --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"0\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      Copyright\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Font Family name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"1\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      TypographicFamilyName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Font Subfamily name --&gt;\r\n&lt;!-- N E W . A D O B E . N A M I N G . M O D
    E L ? --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"2\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      StylingLinkName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Unique font identifier --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"3\" platformID=\"1\"
    platEncID=\"0\" langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n    \t&lt;!-- Bug of Font version number?
    May be caused by AFDKO 2.5. --&gt;\r\n      1.000;VEND;PostScriptFontName\r\n
    \   &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Full font name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord
    nameID=\"4\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\" langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      FullFontName\r\n
    \   &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Version string --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord
    nameID=\"5\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\" langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n    \t&lt;!--
    Bug of Font version number? May be caused by AFDKO 2.5. --&gt;\r\n      Version
    1.000;PS 001.001;hotconv 1.0.56\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Postscript
    name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"6\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      PostScriptFontName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Trademark --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"7\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      Trademark\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Manufacturer Name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"8\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      FontVendor\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Designer --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"9\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      Designer\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Description --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"10\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      Description\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    URL Vendor --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"11\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      VendorURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    URL Designer --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"12\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      DesignerURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    License Description --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"13\" platformID=\"1\"
    platEncID=\"0\" langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      FullLicenseText\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    License Info URL --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"14\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\"
    langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n      LicenseURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Preferred Subfamily --&gt;\r\n&lt;!-- U S E F U L . O N . M A C ? Probably because
    of the new Adobe naming model. See \"M A C / Font Subfamily name\" --&gt;\r\n
    \   &lt;namerecord nameID=\"17\" platformID=\"1\" platEncID=\"0\" langID=\"0x0\"&gt;\r\n
    \     TypographicStyleName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n    \r\n&lt;!--
    W I N D O W S - S E C T I O N --&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Copyright notice --&gt;\r\n
    \   &lt;namerecord nameID=\"0\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n
    \     Copyright\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Font Family name --&gt;\r\n
    \   &lt;namerecord nameID=\"1\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n
    \     StylingGroupName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Font Subfamily
    name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"2\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      StylingLinkName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Unique font identifier --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"3\" platformID=\"3\"
    platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n    \t&lt;!-- Bug of Font version number?
    May be caused by AFDKO 2.5. --&gt;\r\n      1.000;VEND;PostScriptFontName\r\n
    \   &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Full font name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord
    nameID=\"4\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n    &lt;!--
    Correct in case of PostScript flavored OpenType --&gt;\r\n      PostScriptFontName\r\n
    \   &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Version string --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord
    nameID=\"5\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n    \t&lt;!--
    Bug of Font version number? May be caused by AFDKO 2.5. --&gt;\r\n      Version
    1.000;PS 001.001;hotconv 1.0.56\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!-- Postscript
    name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"6\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      PostScriptFontName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Trademark --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"7\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      Trademark\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Manufacturer Name --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"8\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      FontVendor\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Designer --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"9\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      Designer\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Description --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"10\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      Description\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    URL Vendor --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"11\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      VendorURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    URL Designer --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"12\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      DesignerURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    License Description --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"13\" platformID=\"3\"
    platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      FullLicenseText\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    License Info URL --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"14\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      LicenseURL\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Preferred Family --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"16\" platformID=\"3\" platEncID=\"1\"
    langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      TypographicFamilyName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n&lt;!--
    Preferred Subfamily --&gt;\r\n    &lt;namerecord nameID=\"17\" platformID=\"3\"
    platEncID=\"1\" langID=\"0x409\"&gt;\r\n      TypographicStyleName\r\n    &lt;/namerecord&gt;\r\n\r\n
    \ &lt;/name&gt;\r\n\r\n  &lt;CFF&gt;\r\n\r\n    &lt;CFFFont name=\"PostScriptFontName\"&gt;\r\n
    \     \r\n      &lt;!-- Bug? May be caused by AFDKO 2.5. --&gt;\r\n      &lt;version
    value=\"001.001\"/&gt;\r\n      \r\n      &lt;!-- Bug? Messed up. This also happens
    in FLS. --&gt;\r\n      &lt;Notice value=\"Copyright\"/&gt;\r\n      \r\n      &lt;!--
    Bug? Messed up. This also happens in FLS. --&gt;\r\n      &lt;Copyright value=\"Trademark\"/&gt;\r\n
    \     \r\n      &lt;FullName value=\"FullFontName\"/&gt;\r\n      &lt;FamilyName
    value=\"StylingGroupName\"/&gt;\r\n\r\n-------------\r\n\r\nSeems to be closer
    to the specification, but different from the naming model, that Adobe has used
    up till the FontFolio 11. And different from the output of FLS. Correct?"
  created: '2010-06-24 23:55:41'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"Arno\", a lengthy post about FLS's font naming interface in a discussion
    about FOG made me assume that you imply a relevance for FOG too.\r\nAs to different
    categories of font editors: Category I font editors serve to draw and generate
    fonts. Import/export of a binary font involves interpretation so that a font is
    not necessarily \"the same\" in terms of data before import and after export (FM,
    FOG, FLS). Category II font editors serve to edit fonts and keep binary fonts
    intact. Open/save of a binary font and changing individual bits does not affect
    the rest of the font (TTX, OTM). Add a \"more or less\" to each of the preceding
    sentences."
  created: '2010-06-25 08:24:39'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Karsten\r\n\r\nThe name table editor, that is integrated in FLS, is not
    only useful, if you want to import and edit an existing font. In FLS you have
    the option \"Export only OpenType name records - ignore default names\". This
    option in combination with the name table editor is very useful. And all I wanted
    to say, was, that more people would use the name table editor, if the required
    records would be marked by a color and if the panel would be higher and the scrollable
    list longer.\r\n\r\nIf Nick wishes, that FLS is getting the same panel as Fontographer,
    he indicates, that it is harder to name a font with FLS. But the reason are not
    primary cryptical terms, but the different handling of the font formats and the
    bugs in FLS. The Fontographer panel looks more straightened up, which is an improvement,
    yes. But if you have a look at the dumped name and CFF table, you may wonder,
    why the terms from the OT specification shall be less clear than the fantasy terms,
    that the Fontlab developers have used.\r\n\r\nThere is often a need for correcting
    something with TTX. But if the terms, that the editor uses, are different from
    the terms, that you find in the specification, it is harder to keep the overview."
  created: '2010-06-25 09:46:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I guess I know how to use FLS.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nLabels in both apps'
    naming dialogs do not need to match any spec's descriptions because, as FOG5's
    terminology indicates, there is no 1:1 match. Not in FOG. Nor in FLS. The point
    of FOG's dialog is that designers do not need to care what the name table looks
    like. (Name IDs' descriptive names are just that and differ even in Apple's original
    TT spec and MS's/Adobe's OT spec.)"
  created: '2010-06-25 11:26:18'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Karsten\r\n\r\n<cite>Labels in both apps' naming dialogs do not need to
    match any spec's descriptions because, as FOG5's terminology indicates, there
    is no 1:1 match.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut there would be only advantages in taking the
    terms from the OT specification.\r\n\r\n<cite>Name IDs' descriptive names are
    just that and differ even in Apple's original TT spec and MS's/Adobe's OT spec.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    differences are not big:\r\n\r\nhttp://developer.apple.com/fonts/TTRefMan/RM06/Chap6name.html\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/tt/ttf_spec/ttch02.doc\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/name.htm\r\n\r\nAnd
    since when is the fact, that there is more than one description of anything, an
    argument for adding more descriptions? A 2:3 match is better than a 1:4 match,
    especially if an existing description is meaningful."
  created: '2010-06-25 17:25:25'
date: '2010-06-17 13:19:05'
title: Fontographer 5 released

---
