---
author:
  name: kevintheophile
body: "Dear type designers\r\n\r\nI tried to alert and alarm you about the piracy's
  and EULAs' violations dangers at ophello's topic, but you ignored me, didn't believe
  in me, if you continue ignoring me and being uncoscient of all, you'll be hazard
  being blackened and losing the market and money. Please be conscient of that all
  that you didn't know.\r\n\r\n<strog>Free and original fonts' EULAs dangers</strong>\r\n\r\nThe
  type designers aren't conscient of that the clients buy the fonts or download the
  free original fonts without reading the EULA INfO notepad or PDF for using them
  unintended for the commercial use because they just ignore them, or because they
  don't understand or speak English and don't know what EULA is. The type designers
  forgot of writting the name's notepad \"PLEASE READ THE RULES\" in the place of
  \"FONT INFO\", and forget of translating the notepads into other languges for the
  clients to understand the notepads in another languages and after they'll obey the
  rules of EULA. \r\n\r\n<strong>Resoltuion of these problems</strong>\r\n\r\nType
  deisgners may be conscient of all that. Type designers must warn the fonts shops
  that they tell the clients before of buying the fonts or downbloading the free original
  fonts [with new windows of warning [in some language]], if the font wished is or
  not for commercial use, they must ask the fonts shops to translate the fonts EULA
  rules into other languages. They must put a phrase \"PLEASE READ THE FONT RULES
  BEFORE BUYING OR DOWNLOADING THE FREE FONT\" on their own site in several languages
  and the client will understand the rules and obey the rules. They must add many
  international currencies for that the client be able to buy.\r\n\r\nPlease be responsible!\r\n\r\n<strong>Piracy
  dangers</strong>\r\n\r\nThe pirates WISH the excellent, most expensive and bright
  fonts, therefore, they hack and steal them. But why? Because the fonts can be bought
  only with the credit card, as Visa, Mastercard, etc. Therefore, the pirates want
  to buy the fonts with the money, the won national currencies or with the \"payment
  coupcon\", but the fonts eletronic shops don't accept them, they want only the dollar,
  euro or pound and the credit cards, then they're furious, gang for attacking, hacking
  and stealing the fonts as if the pirates of the fairytake gangged for attacking
  and destroying the another ship with the England flag. The pirates hate the fonts
  shops and the type designers as if the pirates hated the English people. Why do
  they hate them? Because the fonts shops and tye designers are greed, but the type
  designers aren't conscient of that. They don't recognise their mistakes, as absence
  of responsibility. \r\n\r\n<strong>Resolution of these problems</strong>\r\n\r\nThey
  must add many international currencies for that the client be able to buy. The clients
  need to buy the fonts with the bank accounts, PayPal, Xoom or with the money when
  they don't have credit cards. Don't forget to warn them if the fonts bought are
  allowed for personal or commercial uses, you must warn them to read the EULA rules
  when they open the fonts, with new windows of warning. The EULA rules mustn't be
  big, but small and basic, because the clients don't have time or have laziness of
  reading, prefer violating the EULA's rules. \r\n\r\nIf you disagree with some of
  my arguments, please criticize and give me your opinions. "
comments:
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "<strong>Alerts</strong>\r\n\r\n*MyFonts, Fonts, FontHaus, etc. and other
    fonts shop seem to be safer, but really aren't safe, because they have been hacked
    by the pirates for stealing the fonts, or when the pirates bought the fonts from
    these shops, but they mistook the shops because they didn't pay for them. Or maybe
    the pirates invented the false credit cards for buying the fonts at these shops.
    \r\n\r\n*The pirate Helvetica, Calibri and Helvetica Neue have been downloaded
    by the 130,000 people without knowing that these are paid. "
  created: '2010-06-20 02:19:58'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: People don't steal fonts because they hate type designers and font shops.
    They steal them because they just don't want to pay. People don't steal music
    from bands that they don't like. It works the same way. They steal music they
    want to listen too because it's good, and they steal fonts they want to use because
    they're good because they don't want to pay.
  created: '2010-06-20 03:35:48'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I don't care about piracy except when pay fonts are presented as free on
    free font sites. But I am concerned about making the rules easier to understand
    for people who aren't as familiar with English.\r\n\r\nA EULA is a legal contract.
    You can translate it, but it's difficult. I've done mine in Japanese but at the
    bottom it indicates that for legal purposes, you have to abide by the English
    version. Apart from the EULA, it would be smart to provide simplified rules.\r\n\r\nAs
    Kevin suggested, these rules should be internationally understood. Perhaps it
    could be done with pictures like an Ikea catalog. I think it would be best put
    them in a jpg, not a PDF. That way they show up as a thumbnail on most operating
    systems and people will be more likely to be curious and open it.\r\n\r\nAs for
    the payment problem, what I think we really need is more font distributors in
    non-English speaking countries. It's not just a matter of taking payment internationally.
    A font distributor needs to be able to talk with customers. Buying fonts from
    an English-only distributor leaves the customer with no place to go when things
    go wrong."
  created: '2010-06-20 06:31:25'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\n<strong>As Kevin suggested, these rules should be internationally
    understood. Perhaps it could be done with pictures like an Ikea catalog. I think
    it would be best put them in a jpg, not a PDF. That way they show up as a thumbnail
    on most operating systems and people will be more likely to be curious and open
    it.</strong\r\n\r\nI agree with you all, the clients must see the EULA rules in
    the image JPG before of downloading the free and original or the paid fonts. \r\n\r\n@Andrevv\r\nYes,
    yes, but I'm going to tell you. At an another forum, the member asked for the
    font to somebody, someone gave her the font's download link, but by luck, the
    member of the same forum, who was a type designer, alerted her that, that font
    wasn't free or original, was pirate, telling her that to use it pirately for commercial
    use was crime, he suggested her to buy it safely at Fonts.com shop and she accepted
    his counsels.\r\n\r\nAnd I have a colleague which is a grpahic designer who illustrates
    the images of humor and joking at his blog. I recognized the font that he was
    using for his blog. It was \"House Gothic Condensed 3\". I knew he didn't buy
    it from FontBros.com but downloaded from another site without knowing that it
    was pirate and wasn't free. \r\n\r\nWhat a pity that nobody is interested in my
    topic. :-("
  created: '2010-06-20 14:48:58'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\n<strong>As Kevin suggested, these rules should be internationally
    understood. Perhaps it could be done with pictures like an Ikea catalog. I think
    it would be best put them in a jpg, not a PDF. That way they show up as a thumbnail
    on most operating systems and people will be more likely to be curious and open
    it.</strong>\r\n\r\nI agree with you all, the clients must see the EULA rules
    in the image JPG before of downloading the free and original or the paid fonts.
    \r\n\r\n@Andrevv\r\nYes, yes, but I'm going to tell you. At an another forum,
    the member asked for the font to somebody, someone gave her the font's download
    link, but by luck, the member of the same forum, who was a type designer, alerted
    her that, that font wasn't free or original, was pirate, telling her that to use
    it pirately for commercial use was crime, he suggested her to buy it safely at
    Fonts.com shop and she accepted his counsels.\r\n\r\nAnd I have a colleague which
    is a grpahic designer who illustrates the images of humor and joking at his blog.
    I recognized the font that he was using for his blog. It was \"House Gothic Condensed
    3\". I knew he didn't buy it from FontBros.com but downloaded from another site
    without knowing that it was pirate and wasn't free. \r\n\r\nWhat a pity that nobody
    is interested in my topic. :-("
  created: '2010-06-20 14:49:49'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I don't think you need to force font users to read the rules but at least
    make them available and noticeable.  I think you'll find that most type designers
    aren't interested in having their rules understood by non-English speakers . .
    . that might be why this subject isn't of much interest to them. I'm definitely
    interested. I don't know if I have the skills to come up with symbols for font
    rules that can be globally understood but I might give it a try. I wonder if this
    has been done before.
  created: '2010-06-21 07:19:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "If these folks work professionally in the graphic arts, then my gut reaction
    is that they aren't naive or ignorant...they're just feigning it to self-justify
    their own use of the unlicensed faces.\r\n\r\nI don't think renaming the EULA
    file or turning it into a JPG will really accomplish anything...especially if
    the faces are obtained outside the proper channel to begin with (where this info
    would often be stripped anyways).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-21 15:51:41'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@aluminium\r\n\r\n<em>If these folks work professionally in the graphic arts,
    then my gut reaction is that they aren't naive or ignorant...<strong>they're just
    feigning it to self-justify their own use of the unlicensed faces.</strong></em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you speaking of the pirates or type deisgners?"
  created: '2010-06-21 18:32:12'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Icons, for common EULA elements? MIght be harder than you think --\r\n\r\nThese
    are supposed to be \"Thou should not charge\" (for free fonts) and \"Thou shalt
    not modify\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rights_6494.png]"
  created: '2010-06-21 21:59:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@kevintheophile \r\n\r\nI have to admit that I'm maybe not entirely following
    your argument, but it sounded like you are trying to advocate more obvious/more
    bilingual/more simplified EULAs. \r\n\r\nWhich is fine.\r\n\r\nBut I don't think
    that will do anything to reduce piracy since folks in this industry should already
    be aware IP issues and illicit font files likely would have that info stripped
    anyways. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-21 22:41:55'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Theunis\r\n\r\nYour idea is bright. But it must be so. We need to harder
    with the designers, the graphic designers and those who want to download the free
    or paid fonts by <strong>greediness</strong> and <strong>egoism</strong> because
    they don't want to pay you.\r\n\r\n@alluminium, but of course that we'll reduce
    it. The ones resolutions of this problem are that we must visit the free fonts
    sites, find and recognize [your] fonts [that belong to you; to your friends, your
    colleagues, to your foundry, to the foundries that you know], print the site and
    the site's direct address, bring them and report/denonce them or the site to the
    [Federal/Civil] Police Station of your city. By chance you prefer to make an anonymous
    report/denonce to the police station by the internet, just visit:\r\n\r\nYou can
    visit for reporting the piracy:\r\n1) https://reporting.bsa.org/usa/home.aspx
    (you can change the country if you want; click in \"United States\" to change
    the country)\r\n2) https://www.riaa.com/reportpiracy.php\r\n\r\nAustralia: http://www.afp.gov.au/contact.aspx
    (if you're Australian or not, if you find the Australian pirate fonts sites)\r\n\r\nBrazil:
    http://www.dpf.gov.br/ (if you're Brazilian or not, if you find Brazilian pirate
    fonts free sites, in the case you're not Brazilian, send an e-mial: crime.internet@dpf.gov.br
    and you can write in English. \r\n\r\nFor the Americans (not being America, you
    can report the pirate free fonts sites, being American or not): \r\n1) https://www.tipsubmit.com/WebTips.aspx?AgencyID=365\r\n2)
    http://www.ci.minneapolis.mn.us/police/e-report/\r\n\r\nNot only the pirate fonts
    sites, but there're also the pirate fonts at the sites of 4Shared, MegaUpload,
    EasyShare, Plunder, Torrent, etc. "
  created: '2010-06-22 00:04:58'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "One reason I decided not to give my fonts away is to keep anyone from getting
    the idea that I don\u2019t care what they do with my work."
  created: '2010-06-22 00:19:16'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@James Puckett:\r\n<strong>One reason I decided not to give my fonts away
    is to keep anyone from getting the idea that I don\u2019t care what they do with
    my work.</strong>\r\n\r\nDid you mean you decided not to give your fonts to any
    fonts shop sites?"
  created: '2010-06-22 00:29:10'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> report/denonce [pirates] to the police station \r\n\r\nIn the U.S., cases
    of trademark/copyright infringement are generally handled via civil lawsuits,
    not through the police.\r\n\r\nIn other words, you hire a lawyer and sue the offender. "
  created: '2010-06-22 02:34:22'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: James, must we report to the civil court or to the police?
  created: '2010-06-22 02:38:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> must we report to the civil court or to the police?\r\n\r\nSomeone can
    correct me if I'm wrong, as I'm certainly not an expert, but I think in most cases
    you simply inform the offender that they are in copyright violation. If they ignore
    you, your recourse is to sue them. At the trial (at a federal court) you'd present
    any evidence you have to prove you own the copyright, etc.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the police get involved unless there is physical merchandise involved. For example,
    if someone is selling pirated movie DVDs on a street corner, then they are subject
    to arrest by the police. But for something like a website illegally hosting movies
    or songs or fonts or whatever, I don't think the police generally get involved
    at all. It's handled via a lawsuit."
  created: '2010-06-22 03:30:28'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "If you think non English speaking font users are deliberately ignoring the
    EULA, try downloading a Japanese font with no English and tell me if it's okay
    for commercial use*. Don't tell me that they should Google Translate the EULA
    because what comes out is often nonsense. You can make out some of it but what
    a chore. I tried Google translating <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/license-jp.html\">my
    own EULA</a> and a lot of the points I was making were the opposite of what I
    had written in English. So now it's been properly translated by humans.\r\n\r\n*
    unless you can read Japanese.\r\n\r\nAs for combating global piracy: Take that
    time to make your rules clearer. I'll bet a lot of the non-English speaking people
    who pirate fonts and use them for commercial use are probably not going to Google
    translate your EULA. I used to spend a lot of time trying to fight font piracy
    and what did it get me? It's just a waste of goddamn time, that's what it is."
  created: '2010-06-22 04:25:59'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Typodermic\r\n\r\n<stromg>If you think non English speaking font users are
    deliberately ignoring the EULA, try downloading a Japanese font with no English
    and tell me if it's okay for commercial use*. Don't tell me that they should Google
    Translate the EULA because what comes out is often nonsense. You can make out
    some of it but what a chore. I tried Google translating my own EULA and a lot
    of the points I was making were the opposite of what I had written in English.
    So now it's been properly translated by humans.</strong>\r\n\r\nHere's a suggetsion:
    why didn't you search for a real professional translator of each language \u2014
    German, Spanish, French, Italian, Russian and Portuguese?"
  created: '2010-06-22 04:42:07'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Typodermic\r\n\r\nDo you want my proof? I discovered and mistruted all your
    fonts, with the font Meloriac have been stolen at the forum!"
  created: '2010-06-22 04:48:04'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I think things are a bit mixed up here...\r\n\r\nAgainst piracy per se there
    is in most countries a law for that. So this should be dealt through the legal
    system with first making people aware of the breach of law by pirating, maybe
    they were not aware.\r\n\r\nThe EULA is a complete different thing, as licensing
    rules are different in each country. If you want to translate the EULA into every
    language then this is only of limited use if you don't check which parts of this
    EULA actually can apply in which country.\r\n\r\nFor example I know that here
    in Austria, and therefore probably Germany and maybe the whole EU, an EULA is
    often not valid, most of the time to the fact that it must be agreed on before
    the buy. In case of a software package in a local store this means that the EULA
    would need to be printed on the package. Online if one can take note of it (if
    there is a link on the page before you buy it), otherwise it does not apply at
    all. And if you can take note of it, then it is not said that every rule would
    apply, as consumer protection is quite high here. If I can't take note, then for
    example I could edit the font as much as I want, as long as I only print it at
    home for my personal posters or whatever (which would not be useful and is only
    a hypo-theoretical statement). I am not an expert though here. \r\n\r\nThe issue
    with the EULA is different though from copyright violations, which means close
    rip-offs or redistribution. This is protected by law in most states anyhow.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that an EULA does not protect from piracy, because it might not apply.
    The legal probably has better means to confront piracy. As well there is probably
    no protection through an EULA, as people who pirate might be aware of what they
    are doing and that it is not legal, but don't care. It depends on the source where
    they get fonts. If a website hosts a font, it could be assumed this font is free.
    If one needs a file-sharing program or downloads a font from a file-hoster, it
    is clear that it is pirate-ware. In any case the EULA will not help you. It helps
    you to deal with those who stay within the law. "
  created: '2010-06-22 07:38:25'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I think the EULA is important, but I think piracy is not so much the result
    of too little information, or non understood information. My feeling is most (font)piracy
    is done by people from the industry themselves, in other words people that should
    know better... In this sense I would say there is a culture of piracy, perhaps
    even an addiction.\r\n\r\nI used to work at a design agency that worked almost
    exclusively with illegal fonts and software. I came there as a student and was
    never thought or told where and how to buy fonts. Some came with software we used,
    some were provided by the university. So at first I did not see the fault in what
    the agency did. The fonts and software were mostly downloaded from torrent websites,
    where one could download the whole Linotype, Adobe or ITC library for free...
    I now realise that this practice is wrong and that fonts should be properly bought
    and licenced. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm trying to say is that education could be a way
    to battle piracy, if students are informed and thaught about licencing fonts,
    EULAs etc. And this would help to show respect to typedesigners as well."
  created: '2010-06-22 08:28:25'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@kevintheophile Wow, you're kind of borderline trolling, aren't you. It feels
    like you're more interested in getting a reaction that anything constructive.\r\n\r\nProof:
    No, thank you. Everyone already knows that fonts are easy to pirate. This topic
    has been discussed for about 10 years on this site. We all know that fonts are
    easily pirated. We've all seen sites in other countries offering commercial fonts
    for free. Don't expect us to get excited about old news.\r\n\r\nOther languages:
    Yeah, someday. I shouldn't have mentioned it in this thread because I'm not doing
    it to effect piracy, I just want to make my rules better understood.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-22 13:41:54'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Gustavo,\r\n\r\nEULAs and piracy are different matters. Someone making illegal
    copies of a font would do this disregarding what the EULA says. And piracy was
    already largely discussed here. So, let me focus on EULAs.\r\n\r\nI agree with
    you that an EULA must be more easy to read and understand. This would help people
    to follow EULA's determinations. And I also agree that some people violate EULAs
    due to misreading of their conditions.\r\n\r\nAnyway, there are limits to simplify
    a Law text \u2013as an EULA. There are hundreds of technical terms in Law. As
    we talk about ascenders, descenders, terminals and x-height, lawyers talk and
    write using legal words which may cause confusion to people outside the Law world.\r\n\r\nThe
    best try to make EULAs more accessible is what Commercial Type do. They show the
    EULA in a column, at left. And a short description of the meaning of that part
    of the EULA at another column, at right. You can see this [[http://commercialtype.com/checkout/eula|here]].\r\n\r\nAbout
    other languages, any auto translation would be disastrous when you're processing
    a technical text. A word could have one meaning in common usage of a language
    and a completely different meaning in Law. Sometimes, the difference is really
    subtle and there is no software able to handle all these questions.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    rules about customers, copyrights and software protection are fairly similar in
    most countries of Europa, Oceania and Americas, and also part of Asia and Africa.
    So, for people of most countries, the rules applied in EULAs from other contries
    are similar to the ones from his/her own contry. Of course, there are always differences,
    but the basic is very similar.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-22 21:40:50'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "@kevintheophile I can't fully understand your argument. Your writing seems
    to be degrading as the thread progresses.\r\n\r\nBut, what typodermic said. Translated
    and better EULAs are certainly a nice thing to strive for. Would that reduce infringments?
    Doubtful. "
  created: '2010-06-23 00:20:32'
date: '2010-06-20 01:58:19'
node_type: forum
title: Why do the clients have pleasure in violating the free and original fonts'
  EULAs?

---
