---
author:
  name: sergeym
body: "Today, we release third platform preview of Internet Explorer 9.\r\n\r\nThere
  is lots of great stuff there. One thing that may be really interesting for Typophile
  audience, is that it includes support for WOFF format! \r\n\r\nIn addition, we implemented
  support for extra properties of @font-face rule: multiple fonts in src property,
  format() hint, font-weight, font-stretch, font-style and unicode-range.\r\n\r\nYou
  can go to http://ie.microsoft.com/testdrive/ to install PBB3 and navigate through
  demos. Enjoy!\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "Worth noting that IE9pp3 also added support for TTF and OTF raw fonts via
    @font-face.\r\n\r\nI've already noticed some oddness with IE9 downloading multiple
    resources when it doesn't need to and filed it on their site...\r\n\r\nbut all
    in all, this preview of IE9 is hugely impressive. Well done!"
  created: '2010-06-24 07:27:29'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>Worth noting that IE9pp3 also added support for TTF and OTF raw fonts
    via @font-face.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's right. OpenType fonts are allowed when embedding
    bits are set to installable. And we implement same-origin restrictions as defined
    in current CSS3 Font specification, I guess this was not mentioned in release
    notes of this preview build. \r\n\r\n<cite>I've already noticed some oddness with
    IE9 downloading multiple resources when it doesn't need to and filed it on their
    site...</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you talking about fonts? And what do it mean by not
    needed?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2010-06-24 08:02:32'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "<cite>Are you talking about fonts? And what do it mean by not needed?</cite>\r\n\r\nhttps://connect.microsoft.com/IE/feedback/details/570191/font-face-declaration-causes-unnecessary-double-download\r\n\r\nThat
    should describe the issue at hand.\r\n\r\nMy bug report didnt mention the case
    of font fallback when glyphs are missing in the available character set... but
    that may be an interesting area to look at simultaneously. "
  created: '2010-06-24 22:50:34'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: Font-stretch? Why would you do that?
  created: '2010-06-24 23:40:24'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@steven acres\r\n\r\n>Font-stretch? Why would you do that?\r\nAfter a day
    of sitting around in one place, fonts need to get up and stretch, just like people
    do, silly.\r\n\r\n(Actually, it provides a CSS mechanism for distinguishing between
    a condensed, normal, or expanded version of a face. Haven't tested yet. Don't
    ask me.)\r\n\r\n@paul irish\r\n\r\nBe thankful for bugs, without them what would
    little boys like you and me do? One of these days you need to send me your list
    of bug-report links so we can gang up on all the user-agent folks.\r\nOK. So now
    IE supports EOT, WOFF and TTF/OTF (with the latter being restricted to fonts with
    embedding bits set to installable.)\r\nNow we're going to need a Much Mo' Bulletproofer
    Bulletproof syntax. (Or a javascript switcher.)\r\nMore work to do....\r\n\r\n@sergey\r\nIE9
    really, really turns a corner. SVG, Canvas and a whole lot more. Congrats. You
    got your mojo workin', fella.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-25 01:54:40'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>That should describe the issue at hand.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere are three
    pages in your report on Connect. \r\n\r\nFirst page you mentioned on connect,
    with single line of text on it, is not downloading anything because this @font-face
    is not referenced in any element. This is what we fixed comparing to IE8. But
    if you change the page to reference this rule, you will see that fonts from both
    \u2018src\u2019 declarations are downloaded. We should ignore first one, but we
    do download it. This is simple bug, thanks for finding it. Overall effect is kind
    of merged list of fonts from all src declarations on the same rule, instead of
    using just last one.\r\n\r\nSecond one, your blog page, only downloads single
    font from Google. This is what I see in network monitor and under debugger. Let
    me know if you see something different. Cool mouse effect on canvas, btw.\r\n\r\nI
    guess, main complaint of your bug is about spec compliance on page demoing Deutsch
    Gothic. Test page contains two fonts on the same \u2018src\u2019 list and IE downloads
    both even first one will sufficient to display the page. Although this may save
    bandwidth, I do not see this as violation of the spec. \u2018Activate\u2019 is
    not exact word, and it does not define moment when I should or should not start
    downloading the font, there is no way to prohibit speculative downloads. Said
    that, I agree that it may be possible to figure out better tuning for cases when
    we should start downloading particular font. This is not RTM yet, so there is
    time to work this out. \r\n\r\n<cite>Font-stretch? Why would you do that?</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause
    it is in CSS3 Fonts spec ;).\r\n\r\n<cite> IE9 really, really turns a corner.
    SVG, Canvas and a whole lot more. Congrats. You got your mojo workin', fella.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Rich. It was great pleasure working on all this stuff, I\u2019ll tell you. Even
    more exciting to seeing it out.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-25 02:10:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sergey: <em>OpenType fonts are allowed when embedding bits are set to installable.
    </em>\r\n\r\nAnd so the notion that <em>document</em> font embedding and web served
    typography are somehow the same thing is perpetuated. I wish you hadn\u2019t done
    this. The practical implications are limited, since so few fonts have the document
    embedding bits set to installable, but it is a misleading confusion of categories.
    Worse, by arbitrarily limiting the support to fonts with the installable setting,
    you are equating web served fonts with locally installable fonts, which is exactly
    the opposite of the impression that the web font standard (WOFF) is designed to
    promote."
  created: '2010-06-25 05:10:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sergey\r\n\r\n<em>Although this may save bandwidth, I do not see this as
    violation of the spec. \u2018Activate\u2019 is not exact word, and it does not
    define moment when I should or should not start downloading the font, there is
    no way to prohibit speculative downloads.</em>\r\n\r\nAs far as \"speculative\"
    downloading of fonts versus \"on demand\" loading - by way of a solution, perhaps
    something that acts like the \"defer\" attribute of the script element would be
    helpful.\r\nI see three situations:\r\n1) Totally speculative - the font declared
    is immediately requested\r\n2) Browser waits to determine if the font is actually
    used on the page and then requests.\r\n3) Font is \"lazy loaded\" after the page
    is rendered - as some resources are so as to cache them or \"defer\" them. One
    example would be a font that's only used in a print stylesheet but has no bearing
    on screen display. Deferred loading would also be useful with italic and bold
    fonts that, when absent, are simulated by the browser and can thus be more subtly
    updated when the font arrives than can the \"normal\" text.\r\n\r\nNone of this
    is being discussed in the Fonts WG, but there would be no violation of the spec
    that I can see, either. In fact, providing these options would enhance interop
    with Firefox, for one.\r\nThis might be worth running by the members of the WG.\r\nEase
    of implementation for such a thing? I'd be interested to hear.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-25 05:30:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Font-stretch? Why would you do that?\r\n\r\n>>Because it is in CSS3 Fonts
    spec ;).\r\n\r\nSo is font-size-adjust and a dozen of other properties, heretofore
    ignored exclusively be IE... \r\nbut if font-size-adjust is supported by IE9 that
    would be a minor coup on the way to functioning @FF.\r\n\r\n>...it provides a
    CSS mechanism for distinguishing between a condensed,... \r\n\r\nIt does not.
    And I love your meaningless quote about DW.\r\n\r\nCheers, and faux pax to all!"
  created: '2010-06-25 13:27:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "RF>...it provides a CSS mechanism for distinguishing between a condensed,...\r\n\r\nDB>It
    does not.\r\n\r\nOf course, your knowing what a thing isn't doesn't prove you
    know what it is. So, what does font-stretch do?\r\n\r\nDB>And I love your meaningless
    quote about DW.\r\n\r\nI love it too. You know, after reading your comment I felt
    like Oscar Madison in the original \"The Odd Couple\" who took hours to figure
    out that the \"FU\" in the note Felix left him was short for \"Felix Unger\".\r\nIt
    took me about ten minutes to figure out DW stood for \"DirectWrite\".\r\nYour
    criticism is meaningless by any font-stretch. Especially without quoting the quote.\r\n\r\ncheerz,
    rich\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-25 17:35:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">So, what does font-stretch do?\r\n\r\nNothing until a large number of IE9's
    exist. ;)\r\n\r\n>Your criticism is meaningless...\r\n\r\nThat's definitely true.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-25 17:44:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@paul irish\r\n\r\nI discussed this with Sylvain G and Ethan Dunham (not
    you too?) some months ago.\r\n\r\nIn IE9, as long as tagesschrift.ttf has the
    embedding bits set to installable, my understanding is that IE9 won't and should
    not \"double back\" and grab the EOT.\r\nThat not what's happening here?\r\n\r\n@font-face
    {\r\n    font-family: tagesschrift;\r\n    src: url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot');
    \   \r\n    src: local('\u263A'), url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.ttf')
    format(\"truetype\");\r\n}\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway, to prevent such scenario, I was
    assuming the following would work for both IE9 and IE6-8, too.\r\n@font-face {\r\n
    \   font-family: tagesschrift;\r\n    src: url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot');
    \   \r\n    src: local('\u263A'), url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot'),url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.ttf')
    format(\"truetype\");\r\n}\r\n\r\nIE9 should pass by the first src descriptor
    and parse the second, stopping when it finds the first file it can use - the EOT.\r\n\r\nHaven't
    tested nothin' yet. But I saw this \"uninstallable TTF causing double download\"
    problem coming. IE9 can't know if the TTF is eligible until it downloads and inpects.
    Then - if you read the spec carefully - it's kind of/sort of OK for it to double
    back and take the eot in the first descriptor. (It's a little ambiguous but it
    can be interpreted to allow it. And Sylvain says it was drafted with this scenario
    in mind.)\r\nHence, the redundancy in the second version which should produce
    a single download in all versions of IE.\r\nIf not, something's buggy in Denmark.
    Redmond, too.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-06-25 18:08:31'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>> So is font-size-adjust and a dozen of other properties, heretofore
    ignored exclusively be IE...</cite>\r\n\r\nWho tells you they are ignored? And
    why exclusively by IE? AFAIK, font-size-adjust is only suppored by FireFox so
    far. Of course, we decide what to implement and in what order. But it does not
    mean we \"ignore\" them. In IE8 and even just 7 months ago in IE9, we ignored
    SVG, Canvas, ECMAScript 5, @font-face rules, WOFF, jscript performance, backgrounds
    and borders, you get the idea. Anyway, I guess you just missed the wink at the
    end of my reply.\r\n\r\n<cite> >Anyway, to prevent such scenario, I was assuming
    the following would work for both IE9 and IE6-8, too.\r\n<code>\r\n> @font-face
    {\r\n> font-family: tagesschrift;\r\n> src: url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot');\r\n>
    src: local('\u263A'), url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot'),url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.ttf')
    format(\"truetype\");\r\n> }\r\n</code></cite>\r\n\r\nYes, minus the bug that
    Paul found. I guess syntax that will work with current IE9 and IE8 and Firefox
    will be to have three src declarations: \r\n\r\n<code>\r\n@font-face {\r\nfont-family:
    tagesschrift;\r\nsrc: local('\u263A'), ,url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.ttf')
    format(\"truetype\");\r\nsrc: url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.eot');\r\nsrc:
    local('\u263A'), url('http://paulirish.com/tagesschrift.ttf') format(\"truetype\");\r\n}\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    way, IE8 will pick middle one, IE9 Preview 3 will use first, and FireFox+\"IE9Fixed\"
    will use the last. When IE9 Preview 3 is history, you can just remove first one.\r\n\r\n<cite>>
    Then - if you read the spec carefully - it's kind of/sort of OK for it to double
    back and take the eot in the first descriptor.</cite>\r\n\r\nI assumed that last
    'src' is used, and all previous should be ignored. I did not see in the spec anything
    special said about src, so it should work as other CSS properties. It is a bug
    in IE9 preview that we request eot from first declaration.\r\n\r\n<cite>> But
    I saw this \"uninstallable TTF causing double download\" problem coming. IE9 can't
    know if the TTF is eligible until it downloads and inpects.</cite>\r\n\r\nSame
    will happen for any non-compliant, corrupted files, or EOTs with root strings
    not allowing its use on particular site. I would say browser should be optimistic
    and expect page author to only reference fonts that can actually be used.\r\n\r\nI
    think we are moving to spec issues that belong more to www-font than typography
    forum. Lets move further discussions there.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey"
  created: '2010-06-25 20:09:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Who tells you they are ignored?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SORI2_5969.png]\r\n\r\n...
    oh, just a hunch. ;) \r\n(http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc351024(VS.85).aspx)\r\n\r\nSo,
    based on this document, I said what I said. \r\nI see IE is moving faster, and
    I am truly delighted! \r\nBut if IE9 is not going support font-size-adjust, fine,
    will IE10?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-25 22:29:05'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "<cite>> ... oh, just a hunch. ;)</cite>\r\nYou were actually looking at two
    year old Microsoft compatibilty chart. First, it is not saying anything about
    future plans. Second, more important, if you check last draft of CSS3 Fonts spec
    only font-size-adjust and font-stretch are still there. And one of them is already
    working in current preview. "
  created: '2010-06-25 23:52:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sergey> You were actually looking at two year old Microsoft compatibility
    chart. \r\n\r\nYes I actually am. What's changed to antiquate my view? \r\n\r\nSergey>
    First, it is not saying anything about future plans. \r\n\r\nNo it doesn't, but
    I asked if f-s-a was supported by 9, and the answer is no? \r\nAnd I asked if
    it'd be supported in IE10, and you didn't answer yet. \r\nAnd I asked Greg and
    Mike and they didn't answer. \r\n\r\n>Second, more important, if you check last
    draft of CSS3 Fonts spec only font-size-adjust and font-stretch are still there.\r\n\r\nIt
    better be still there, if the W3C's precious @ff is ever going to make a dent
    in the size of the web. \r\n\r\nSergey, Microsoft let loose the optical sizing
    of fonts without giving users a clue.\r\nMS invented CT and essentially disqualified
    the 12 point masters of the world as text on screens.\r\nMS made the CT collection
    as 14, 16 and 20 point masters and won't fix it, or let others do so. \r\nMS supports
    @ff, I think, but then again support is incomplete. \r\n\r\nYes, the chart is
    old. Yes the future exists. Yes, font-size-adjust and font-stretch are still in
    CSS.\r\n\r\nAny questions?\r\n\r\nJC> And so the notion that document font embedding
    and web served typography are somehow the same thing is perpetuated. \r\n\r\nI
    greatly appreciate all you and some of the WG are doing to try to help Windows
    users... but I decided yesterday I just have to \"stop\" and \"wait\" for more
    \"help\". I'm not holding my or any else's breath on this, so don't worry;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-26 13:22:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>It better be still there, if the W3C's precious @ff is ever going
    to make a dent in the size of the web.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, the font-size-adjust
    property is designed to adjust relative sizing of fallback fonts so that they
    match the x-height of the missing specified font, i.e. it is a way of specifying
    the aspect ratio of the desired font in the CSS so that when that font is not
    available at least some information about it is available and can be used to calculate
    adjusted size of substitute fonts. Since one point of @font-face and web served
    fonts is to reduce the instances of specified fonts not being available, and hence
    reduce the instances of font fallback -- in an @font-face web, only browsers that
    don't support @font-face and the served web font format will need font fallback
    --, I don't see how font-size-adjust is critical to the success of @font-face.
    Indeed, I wonder if browser makers are looking at font-size-adjust as a fix for
    a problem that they expect to largely go away with @font-face web served typography,
    and hence something that they're not prioritising.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong:
    I think font-size-adjust is a clever idea and one that the web would have benefited
    from since CSS first came along. Now, though, it looks like a barn-door-closing
    mechanism, and the horse is running free in a totally different field.\r\n\r\nWhat
    we really need is a robust mechanism for auto-selection of ppem-specific fonts
    relative to the varieties of ways in which CSS allows web authors to specify type
    size (including, now, the 4/3 point virtual pixel!). Yes?"
  created: '2010-06-26 17:08:38'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@JohnH: \"including, now, the 4/3 point virtual pixel\"\\\r\n\r\nI think
    you mean the 4/3 pixel virtual point. (Or maybe the 3/4 point virtual pixel?)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-06-26 18:07:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Agree with Phinney:\r\n\r\nVirtual point. 3 points = 4 pixels. 3:4 ratio.\r\n12pt
    (normal browser default text size for paragraph text) = font-size: 16px \r\nOptical,
    schmoptical. Been that way in IE for years. \r\n\r\n@john hudson\r\n<em>What we
    really need is a robust mechanism for auto-selection of ppem-specific fonts relative
    to the varieties of ways in which CSS allows web authors to specify type size
    (including, now, the 4/3 point virtual pixel!). Yes?</em>\r\n\r\nI would like
    to see something like this. (To the extent that I *think* I understand what you
    mean.)\r\nPage Zoom is really a crude resizing mechanism but it's the kind of
    thing computers do so effortlessly. Recalculate and viola!\r\nI don't think this
    kind of fine-tuned feature is high on the radar screen for browser makers at this
    time.\r\nHigh pixel density screens might provide an impetus. And if those devices
    actually start giving the OS information about their physical size and the relationship
    of that size to the device's pixel count, maybe it'll even be implementable.\r\nRight
    now, I wouldn't even know how to go about constructing a convincing proof of concept.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-26 20:01:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What we really need is a robust mechanism for auto-selection of ppem-specific
    fonts relative to the varieties of ways in which CSS allows web authors to specify
    type size (including, now, the 4/3 point virtual pixel!). Yes?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.
    That solution will only work for businesses with the money to pay for ppem-specific
    fonts and it would also require experienced screen type designers to create said
    fonts. As nice as it would be for all of us to spend a few weeks on an island
    learning to create these great screen fonts from masters like you and David, it\u2019s
    not a realistic option. We would run into the same problem we have with TrueType
    hinting: the resources to deploy it widely will not exist before the technology
    is obsolete. \r\n\r\nApple has already solved this problem: develop the best rasterizer
    possible without worrying about hinting or size-specific designs and get the engineers
    busy on better LCDs. What we really need is for Microsoft and PC hardware makers
    to get busy doing what they always do: admit that Apple was right and get to work
    on a knockoff. "
  created: '2010-06-26 20:16:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James, I'm not suggesting a mechanism for size-specific fonts is a sole solution
    for web typography: the majority of web typography will continue to rely on rasterisation
    of scaled outlines, with or without some amount of hinting. The problem that I
    seek to address is <em>optimised</em> readability on screen within the context
    of the variety of rasterisation models now in use and emerging. The dominant rasterisation
    models, using sub-pixel rendering, decouple outline scaling and size-specific
    device-dependent outline and spacing adjustments (hinting), either partially,
    completely or in non-linear fashion. This means that the <em>only</em> way to
    optimise type for screen is to produce size-specific designs. Let me say that
    again, in case anyone missed the key word: the <em>ONLY</em> way to optimise type
    for screen is to produce size-specific designs.\r\n\r\nSub-pixel rasterisation
    and/or positioning, especially when combined with y-direction greyscale antialiasing,
    makes the majority of type <em>look</em> better on screen. But looking better
    is not the same as optimised for readability.\r\n\r\nYou mention Apple's rendering,
    but miss the point that by decoupling font scaling from size-specific outline
    and spacing adjustment, Apple oblige designers seeking to optimise for screen
    readability to do so at the outline design level, because there isn't any longer
    any other level. Sure, type on screen under Apple's full-fuzz rendering looks
    a heck of a lot better than unhinted type used to look, but it can only be optimal
    at, at most, <em>one size</em>. The only way to increase the range of sizes at
    which type is optimised for readability is to provide individual fonts for those
    sizes. That is the only mechanism available by which the designer can control
    the outline-to-raster-grid relationships, maintain stroke density and affect spacing.\r\n\r\nSure,
    a mechanism for auto-selection of ppem-specific fonts is something that presumes
    customers with money to spend on the development of such fonts, and isn't something
    that is going to replace rasterisation of scaled outlines. But such customers
    do exist, and it isn't intended to replace anything, only to make possible what
    is currently impossible: dynamic optimisation of type for reading on screen."
  created: '2010-06-26 22:54:42'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: For what it's worth, the Font Squirrel Generator and the Fontspring webfonts
    already set the fsType bit to installable. Glad to see the same-origin restrictions
    enforced as well, though that is stumbling quite a few developers who don't understand
    why fonts aren't loading on their subdomains in Firefox.
  created: '2010-06-27 02:58:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Font Squirrel Generator ... already sets the fsType bit to installable</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean that if the Generator is processing a font that has an fsType bit set to
    something other than installable you are changing the bit?"
  created: '2010-06-27 05:31:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">the font-size-adjust property is designed to adjust relative sizing of fallback
    fonts so that they match the x-height of the missing specified font, i.e. ...\r\n\r\nWow.
    To adjust the sizing of fallback fonts to the user's preference for text, as 1em,
    is what I understand it to do...\r\n\r\n>...it looks like a barn-door-closing
    mechanism, and the horse is running free in a totally different field.\r\n\r\nWhat,
    in this analogy does the horse, barn, barn door and field represent? \r\n\r\n>the
    ONLY way to optimise type for screen is to produce size-specific designs.\r\n\r\nYou
    can prove this?;)\r\n\r\n>by decoupling font scaling from size-specific outline
    and spacing adjustment, Apple oblige designers seeking to optimise...\r\n\r\nBut
    being coupled to a specific set of h-ware, makes a big difference. And, decoupling
    x font scaling from y font scaling does the same thing as yo u say, but in an
    open hardware environment, it's... different, don't chya know?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-27 11:21:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RF>Right now, I wouldn't even know how to go about constructing a convincing
    proof of concept.\r\n\r\nYou mean you've never used a computer to create a print
    document?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-27 14:27:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH><em>You mean that if the Generator is processing a font that has an fsType
    bit set to something other than installable you are changing the bit?</em>\r\n\r\nRelated
    to this: IMHO, MSFT's enforcement of the bits will have exactly the opposite effect
    that I am assuming they think it will have. I just don't get their reasoning.\r\nBecause
    of the potential for causing either a \"double download\" or, if there is no EOT
    as a fallback, no font download at all, I've been asking myself the question:
    \"Well, Rich, what would you advise webdevs to do?\"\r\nThe prudent, rational
    thing is to change the bits to installable as a matter of best practice. \r\nHow
    can you ask someone who's trying to get fonts to work on their web page to add
    to their problems? Especially a problem that's difficult to identify?\r\nIf helping
    to enforce licenses is MSFT's goal, they will get exactly the opposite.\r\nJust
    my expectation - that's all.\r\n\r\nPuckett><em>Apple has already solved this
    problem: develop the best rasterizer possible without worrying about hinting or
    size-specific designs and get the engineers busy on better LCDs</em>\r\n\r\nFink><em>High
    pixel density screens might provide an impetus.</em>\r\n\r\nPuckett's right, I'm
    wrong. I changed my mind yesterday when I saw Apple's new iPhone display. Stunning.\r\n\r\nAfter
    seeing it, I came away thinking that a precise matchup between screen and print:\r\n\r\nDB><em>You
    mean you've never used a computer to create a print document?</em>\r\n\r\nwill
    seem like great effort for little in the way of result by most people's lights.
    Me included, I'm pretty sure, based on what I saw yesterday.\r\nI'm now wondering
    how long it will be before larger screens of that quality make it to market.\r\n\r\n(My
    right eye is highly disabled due to wet macular degeneration and I have always
    been astygmatic in both eyes. The screen on the new iPhone is so superior, I've
    decided to sell my current model on Ebay and get the new one. These little smart
    phone screens drive me crazy, this is the first one that's close to tolerable.
    About as close to the sharpness of print as I can imagine. Better, really. In
    addition to being sharp, the text pops right out at you.)"
  created: '2010-06-27 17:14:13'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I'm now wondering how long it will be before larger screens of that
    quality make it to market.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs I\u2019ve noted before it will be
    sooner than anyone thinks. What else is left for display vendors to market? Size,
    contrast, color depth, and energy efficiency have all become mostly irrelevant
    relative to cost. And now that LCDs have been selling with long-life lamps for
    a few years vendors can\u2019t just wait for people to upgrade dead hardware.
    Hi-resolution screens are coming. The downside is that for the next ten years
    web designers will have to target screens ranging from 72 to 300+ DPI. Have fun
    testing that!"
  created: '2010-06-27 17:23:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Puckett's right, I'm wrong. I changed my mind yesterday when I
    saw Apple's new iPhone display. Stunning.</em>\r\n\r\nJames: <em>Size, contrast,
    color depth, and energy efficiency have all become mostly irrelevant relative
    to cost</em>\r\n\r\nMaking small high resolution screens for mobile devices is
    relatively easy and cost effective. But the larger a screen gets the greater the
    chance of a manufacturing error resulting in a dead pixel. Since such an error
    means that the whole screen needs to be junked, the attrition costs of manufacturing
    larger high resolution screens has been considered prohibitive.\r\n\r\nI saw my
    first 200ppi screen twelve years ago. For much of the intervening period I worked
    daily on first 133ppi and then 144ppi laptop screens. I've been waiting a long
    time for widespread adoption of higher resolution computer monitors, and it hasn't
    happened. Only when screen size came down did resolution start going up. But meanwhile,
    I've gone in the opposite direction: my desktop screen is only 96ppi, but is it
    huge (30\") and I sit further back than I used to.\r\n\r\nWant high pixel density?
    Move your chair."
  created: '2010-06-27 18:21:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "At ATypI I raised the question regarding IE\u2019s possible support for raw
    fonts, and the approach of using the installable embedding bit as an \u201Copt-in\u201D
    for web site designers using open source, freeware and custom fonts. Even though
    that concept hasn't been documented yet, I don\u2019t see how it confuses things
    - Type Squirrel seems to get it. I don\u2019t think anyone could claim ignorance
    in switching the bits in commercial fonts.  \r\n\r\nAlthough naturally type designers
    and foundries preference is that IE not support raw fonts at all, acting as a
    roadblock to raw font deployment, that wasn\u2019t an option for the team. I mentioned
    Acid 3\u2019s inclusion of raw font support in my talk, indicating non-support
    would be a standards \u201Chole\u201D competitors would exploit.\r\n\r\nCertainly
    ignoring document embedding bits completely would be easier for all concerned.
    Happy to field type designer and foundry feedback on this question, here or off-list.\r\n\r\nSeems
    as if the thread has taken a bit of a tangent. I for one would love to understand
    how web designers and users feel about the quality of the commercial fonts used
    in the demos, compared to the freeware alternatives. Do people consider the quality
    as something they\u2019d be willing to pay for? Also feelings on DWrite vs other
    rendering environments.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-27 18:22:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, re. font-size-adjust:\r\n\r\n<em>To adjust the sizing of fallback
    fonts to the user's preference for text, as 1em, is what I understand it to do...</em>\r\n\r\nWho
    do you mean by \u2018user\u2019 in this context? The web author or the reader?\r\n\r\nThe
    CSS3 spec succinctly defines the role of font-size-adjust like this:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.w3.org/TR/css3-fonts/#aspect-value\">This property allows authors
    to specify an aspect value for an element that will effectively preserve the x-height
    of the first choice font, whether it is substituted or not.</a>\r\n\r\nIn any
    case, even if your understanding were correct, this would still be something that
    relates specifically to fallback font mechanisms, not to web served typography.\r\n___\r\n\r\n<em>What,
    in this analogy does the horse, barn, barn door and field represent?</em>\r\n\r\nhorse
    = type on the web\r\nbarn = locally stored fonts (requiring fallback font mechanisms)\r\nbarn
    door = font.size.adjust\r\nfield = web served fonts (no fallback font mechanism
    required except where web served fonts not supported)\r\n___\r\n\r\n<em>You can
    prove this?</em>\r\n\r\nI thought you had. :)\r\n\r\nIt follows logically that
    if the instruction set no longer does what it used to do, i.e. make size-specific
    outline adjustments relative to the grid, then such adjustments need to be made
    at the outline creation level, with size-specific fonts. Or, if you want a more
    precise analysis, with size-specific outline sets, which with present font format
    technology implies separate fonts. It is possible that the outline sets for different
    sizes could be incorporated in the same font, but there are drawbacks to this
    approach: a) outlines fit best to grid if the UPM varies to a multiple of the
    design grid for each size and b) it won't work for fonts with really big character
    sets, e.g. Chinese, because you'll hit the 64k glyph limit.\r\n___\r\n\r\n<em>But
    being coupled to a specific set of h-ware, makes a big difference. And, decoupling
    x font scaling from y font scaling does the same thing as yo u say, but in an
    open hardware environment, it's... different, don't chya know?</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    argument from me there. Apple, Microsoft, Adobe, and anyone else using sub-pixel
    rendering/positioning and/or ignoring some or all of the instruction set are pushing
    optimisation of on screen type onto the outline. James was suggesting that Apple's
    rendering somehow solves the issue of readable text on screen. Leaving aside the
    fact that I think ClearType does a better job of maintaining stroke density consistency
    and, as you say, Apple has the advantage of (mostly) not operating in an open
    hardware environment (Safari on Windows is a wild rendering ride), I'd say, rather,
    that by providing the lowest common denominator of instruction support Apple defines
    how size-specific outline creation needs to be done to optimise a design for a
    given size across the majority of rendering environments. In other words, if all
    sub-pixel rendering worked like ClearType, we'd only need to optimise outlines
    horizontally relative to the grid, and could hint in the other direction. But
    Apple's rendering obliges us to optimise outlines in both directions."
  created: '2010-06-27 18:27:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard F:\r\n\r\nI agree that the \"Retina display\" on the new iPhone
    is truly stunning. I will certainly upgrade. I am however wondering how long it
    will be before we see 300+ ppi on larger screens, and at what price. I'm sure
    it will happen, but I'm not so sure it will be next week. (Not that I claim any
    inside knowledge on this point, just skepticism.) I was surprised and disheartened
    when the iPad came out with only 1024x768... not much better ppi on that than
    on my 18.4\" HP laptop with 1920x1080, and noticeably worse than the original
    iPhone.\r\n\r\nEmbedding bits: You and Ethan may not care much, but I'm sure that
    many font vendors will view modifying embedding bits as a violation of their EULA.
    I expect this is true even of some that otherwise allow modifications to their
    fonts. Then again, many of those same folks wouldn't permit their fonts to be
    self-hosted by customers on public web sites, either.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-27 18:28:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>I mentioned Acid 3\u2019s inclusion of raw font support in my talk,
    indicating non-support would be a standards \u201Chole\u201D competitors would
    exploit.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept Acid 3 is not a standard and was not created by a
    standards body. It was created by WaSP, which is an industry advocacy group, and
    represents a cherry-picked selection of features that best apply the pressure
    members of that group wish to apply (apparently successfully in the case of IE9's
    raw font support).\r\n\r\nI find little to disagree with in Eric Meyer's <a href=\"http://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2008/03/27/acid-redux/\">critique
    of Acid 3</a>.\r\n___\r\n\r\nRich: <em>The prudent, rational thing is to change
    the bits to installable as a matter of best practice.\r\nHow can you ask someone
    who's trying to get fonts to work on their web page to add to their problems?
    Especially a problem that's difficult to identify?\r\nIf helping to enforce licenses
    is MSFT's goal, they will get exactly the opposite.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd so it goes,
    Si.\r\n\r\nYou could have defined a new fsType bit for raw font web serving permission,
    which would have precisely targeted the needs of open source, freeware and custom
    font makers and users, without confusing document embedding with web font serving.
    Remember, one of the principle reasons for developing a dedicated web font format
    is to draw a line between existing desktop fonts and web fonts. You could have
    done the same thing for raw font serving permissions, and avoided the implication
    that any existing font with an installable document embedding bit setting is licensed
    for web serving. If you feel Acid 3 compels you to support raw font linking in
    some way, you have rather more say in just what way than most other browser makers.
    You do, after all, own the OT font specification. :)"
  created: '2010-06-27 19:02:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "John please stop twisting my words. I said failing Acid 3 on this point was
    an indicator, not that Acid 3 is a standard. I also didn't say that Acid 3 compelled
    us. We were compelled by the same reasons as our competitors were, and we did
    so only after publically seeking community input.  \r\n\r\nRe an alternative opt-in,
    if we thought for one nano-second that Apple, Mozilla, Opera and Google would
    have respected such a setting I would have pushed for it harder. If you can point
    me to any evidence to the contrary I\u2019d love to see it.\r\n\r\nAlso we don't
    own the OpenType specification, just the trademark, we can't just make stuff up
    and stick it in. Other stakeholders (the people who produce apps that have to
    enforce them) have consistently voiced opposition to defining additional embedding
    bits.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-27 20:35:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII>Seems as if the thread has taken a bit of a tangent.\r\n\r\nThat's okay,
    right? Otherwise I can call in an expert on tangentential mediation and we can
    each get a mantra, or womentra as the case may be. \r\n\r\nJH>horse = type on
    the web\r\n...less than 1% today is @ff\r\n\r\n>barn = locally stored fonts (requiring
    fallback font mechanisms)\r\n...which means 99% are still in the barn.\r\n\r\n>barn
    door = font.size.adjust\r\nthat's a funny door. \r\n\r\n>field = web served fonts
    (no fallback font mechanism required except where web served fonts not supported)\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
    get you a gift certificate for the iAnalogy store.\r\n\r\nLook John, at the history
    of Panose; killed by the confluence of reliability, fidelity, and the fact that
    it failed as meta data because it only told the user what it was, and not what
    it was for. I want the web font format and css to know, from the bottom of my
    heart, reliability, fidelity, and meta data are all changed on the web. I can
    see it, wish you were here. :)\r\n\r\nJH>>But Apple's rendering obliges us to
    optimise outlines in both directions.\r\n\r\nOblige? No one has optimized anything
    about fonts on the Mac since 1999, and no problems have come up that I\u2019m
    aware of...\r\n\r\nJH>if all sub-pixel rendering worked like ClearType, we'd only
    need to optimise outlines horizontally relative to the grid, \r\n\r\nBut hinting
    is the barrier (not letterdrawing), optimizing vertically is a given on both platforms,
    and optimizing horizontally is impossible on both platforms, (except for my gathering
    cloud-o-types), because of sub-point size specification, (before even leaving
    for China;)\r\n\r\nSII>Do people consider the quality as something they\u2019d
    be willing to pay for? \r\n\r\nI don't know who would pay for anything that just
    works in windows next year. \r\n\r\n>Also feelings on DWrite vs other rendering
    environments.\r\n\r\nIs it worth spending $5,000 per style to do something Apple
    does for us for free. hmmmm. \r\n\r\nSII>Also we don't own the OpenType specification,
    just the trademark, we can't just make stuff up and stick it in.\r\n\r\nWell,
    no one else can make stuff up and stick it in. So, in a court of law, you own
    it. :)\r\n\r\nSII>Other stakeholders (the people who produce apps that have to
    enforce them) have consistently voiced opposition to defining additional embedding
    bits.\r\n\r\nNo one here has ever suggested \"the people who produce apps\" have
    to enforce embedding bits. Only MS has ever made a format that requires the embedding
    bits be used for web serving of fonts. Only MS, no one here, no one else. Right?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n(sflp)"
  created: '2010-06-27 22:26:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I agree that the \"Retina display\" on the new iPhone is truly stunning.
    I will certainly upgrade. I am however wondering how long it will be before we
    see 300+ ppi on larger screens, and at what price. I'm sure it will happen, but
    I'm not so sure it will be next week</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s really going to come
    down to patents. If Apple developed something really amazing in-house to make
    Retina Displays we might have to wait for the lawyers to work everything out (and
    right now Apple can afford a lot of litigation). Hopefully this is licensed tech
    like multi-touch and Dell, HP, HTC, etc. can start going bonkers with it next
    year."
  created: '2010-06-27 22:35:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">No one here has ever suggested \"the people who produce apps\" have to enforce
    embedding bits. \r\n\r\nWrong. Monotype and Adobe had a legal dispute over the
    issue. \r\n\r\n>Well, no one else can make stuff up and stick it in. So, in a
    court of law, you own it. :)\r\n\r\nSince the moment format was standardized the
    version of the spec posted on my site follows the ISO version. As an example the
    current ISO amendment changes won't be reflected on my site until the changes
    are ratified by ISO. So we can't just make stuff up and stick it in without breaking
    that synchronization, and obviously we can't just make stuff up and stick it in
    the ISO version.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-06-28 00:02:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, you said, if you recall: <em>[font-size-adjust] better be still there,
    if the W3C's precious @ff is ever going to make a dent in the size of the web.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    suggests that you believe that font-size-adjust has some crucial role in @font-face.
    My point is that font-size-adjust is targeted at font fallback mechanisms that
    will be of diminished importance as use of web served typography increases. I'm
    not saying that font-size-adjust isn't important, I'm saying that it doesn't seem
    to be important in the way you suggested it is important. It's a way of improving
    the current situation of locally stored fonts and fallback, and would only be
    relevant to @font-face where the latter fails due to lack of web font support."
  created: '2010-06-28 03:41:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Si, sorry, I didn''t mean to twist your words: I didn''t understand the point
    you were making about Acid 3 as an indicator. To be honest, I still don''t really.
    Acid 3 is ostensibly a test produced by a group promoting web standards, but there
    is no web standard that says raw font serving needs to be supported as an @font-face
    implementation. So what is Acid 3 an indicator of, other than that WaSP is doing
    something other than promoting web standards?'
  created: '2010-06-28 03:42:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>optimizing vertically is a given on both platforms, and optimizing
    horizontally is impossible on both platforms, (except for my gathering cloud-o-types)...</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    gathering cloud-o-types is exactly the sort of optimised screen type about which
    I'm talking. When are you going to stop arguing and realise that I'm agreeing
    with you, that I think you're right about how to optimise type for contemporary
    screen rendering?\r\n\r\nIn what sense is optimising vertically a given on the
    Mac? What I see on the Mac is horizontal strokes in varying shades of grey, and
    so far as I can tell the only way to optimise the appearance of those strokes
    would be the same way you are optimising in the other direction: creating size-specific
    outline sets closely aligned to pixel grids.\r\n___\r\n\r\nPS. Got a Palm Pre
    this week. Nice type."
  created: '2010-06-28 03:55:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>Re an alternative opt-in, if we thought for one nano-second that
    Apple, Mozilla, Opera and Google would have respected such a setting I would have
    pushed for it harder. If you can point me to any evidence to the contrary I\u2019d
    love to see it.</em>\r\n\r\nBut those other browser makers are not respecting
    any fsType embedding bits with regard to web served fonts. As David points out,
    Microsoft is the only company that has produced an @font-face implementation that
    associates a document embedding bit with web served fonts. As you know, I'd prefer
    MS not to support any sushi in Internet Explorer, and I disagree with all the
    reasons put forward for doing so, and I think browser makers and font makers alike
    should tell WaSP where to stick their Acid 3 test, but if you're going to support
    some raw fonts while at the same time self-imposing a limit on your support related
    to embedding bits, why not define a bit that clearly means 'web serving for Internet
    Explorer allowed', rather than assuming that a font that is technically able to
    be installed from a document embedded status is also allowed to be served on the
    web?\r\n\r\nSo now, people like Rich are going to change embedding bits to installable
    in order to make raw fonts work in IE, those raw fonts are going to end up in
    user caches, and, oh look, they're \u2018installable\u2019. Sure any number of
    licenses will be broken along the way, with the possibility of font makers pursuing
    legal action in response, but we have better things to do with our time and our
    limited resources. As I've said for a year now: there is no way to support raw
    fonts on the web that does not expose all existing desktop fonts to casual unlicensed
    installation and use on recipient's computers and to unlicensed use as web fonts
    through circumvention of embedding bits or other limitations within the TTF/OTF.
    <em>So just don't do it.</em>"
  created: '2010-06-28 04:31:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII> Wrong. Monotype and Adobe had a legal dispute over the issue. \r\n\r\nOkay...
    in all the discussions about web fonts, no one has suggested \"the people who
    produce [web] apps\" and in particularly browsers, have to enforce embedding bits.
    How's that? \r\n\r\nAnd, Simon, nothing whatsoever about the relationship between
    MS (or Apple) and standards, is \"obvious\", obviously. But is it better to change
    the spec or change the definition of what's already there!? as you have done.
    WOFF trap sprung, I think. Jokes on us.  \r\n\r\nJH> My point is that font-size-adjust
    is targeted at font fallback mechanisms that will be of diminished importance
    as use of web served typography increases. \r\n\r\nAnd my point is that the vanishing
    point for fall back fonts is distant, and never quite disappeared.\r\nIn the transition,
    e.g. how do you see Bold Condensed @ffaces fallen back from with said distant
    vanishing point? \r\n\r\n>...only be relevant to @font-face where the latter fails
    due to lack of web font support.\r\n\r\n...or server, web author difficulties,
    or user choice. And, how about when an @ff doesn't have all the required glyphs
    the user demands?\r\n\r\n>When are you going to stop arguing and realise that
    I'm agreeing with you\r\n\r\nRight now...\r\n\r\n>PS. Got a Palm Pre this week.
    Nice type.\r\n\r\n...you're always right:)\r\n\r\nAnd, as nice as it is, it wasn't
    nice enough for the web. Sad isn't it? But soon, you'll be able to get the web
    version on all your other devices and publications.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-28 14:26:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, good points about relevance of fallback mechanisms to @font-face, especially
    with regard to character substitution (glyph substitution is an in-font fallback,
    e.g. if the CSS specifies a stylistic set that is not supported by the active
    font, I would expect the fallback to be to the default glyph for that character
    in that font, not a font substitution).
  created: '2010-06-28 18:26:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Agreed on OT fallback, but there is too much going on with fall back in general
    not to have f-s-a and f-s-a-like properties in a number of places with the staggering
    in of @ff use. The process of adding typographic capabilities to the web is just
    not well planned if f-s-a is not working everywhere yet.\r\n\r\nMore thinking
    sooner, I say. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-29 00:12:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>The process of adding typographic capabilities to the web is just
    not well planned if f-s-a is not working everywhere yet.</em>\r\n\r\nIs it planned
    at all?"
  created: '2010-06-29 01:23:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John H:\r\n\r\nI think I disagree with you, if I understand what you're arguing.\r\n\r\nRichard
    Fink is suggesting that web font processing tools should process existing fonts
    to change their fsType bits to \"installable.\" You take that as evidence that
    using the absence of the \"installable\" setting to mean the fonts are not OK
    as raw-TTF web fonts is a bad idea, and a new embedding bit should have been invented
    instead.\r\n\r\nI have two problems with your line of argument.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    if a new embedding bit had been invented, don't you think that Richard would be
    saying web-font-processing tools should be setting that bit? How on earth would
    that help?\r\n\r\nSecond, I don't see the use of the installable setting the same
    way you do. I see it as \"if the bits are NOT set to installable, then we're not
    giong to process the font. if the bits ARE set to installable, then we'll process
    the font... but that doesn't trump the EULA.\"\r\n\r\nThat's exactly the way I
    understand the existing uses of embedding bits advising apps on what to do with
    fonts for actual document embedding, as well. A font may be set to preview and
    print embedding, but that doesn't mean it's okay for that under all circumstances.
    There may be additional strictures, and you still need to read the EULA. Maybe
    it has commercial PDF restrictions, or it requires extra money if you use the
    PDF anywhere outside the organization that licensed  the font in the first place,
    or it only allows you to embed fonts in documents if they are never viewed on
    Thursdays.\r\n\r\nAll that being said, I actually do agree that inventing a new
    bit would have been preferable to overloading the meaning of \"installable\" in
    this way (even though MS originally intended for these bits to apply to web fonts).
    I just don't think it's a huge deal, either.\r\n\r\nThe stakeholders in the Open
    Font Format (OpenType) spec could still rally 'round and try to get some such
    change through. I think it would be a fine thing. We'd need to have a firm proposal:
    is the new bit a positive or negative one, do we need two bits just to get around
    the issue of existing fonts not having a setting, or do we rev the OS/2 table
    version?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-06-29 08:34:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>Is it planned at all?\r\n\r\nwell, let me put it another way: size of
    type and color of type are not things publishers want to have <em>this</em> unplanned
    forever. ;)\r\n\r\nTP> I actually do agree that inventing a new bit would have
    been preferable to overloading the meaning of \"installable\" \r\n\r\nWell you've
    all had several years to support this suggestion made long-ago. But instead, you've
    used the same old excuses to create a techno-legal nightmare for publishers and
    placed a huge bleep of trouble into your own, Fink-ish, and user's hands. \r\n\r\nSame
    thing with actual point size vs. goofiness, and WOFF's \"yellow snow\" meta data
    vs. useful m-d to foundry and user alike... huge bleep of trouble. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-29 11:41:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tom, I think you've missed the train of my argument and have associated two
    distinct objections.\r\n\r\nMy first objection is to any support of raw fonts
    in web served typography. I believe it is both undesirable and unnecessary, and
    that the arguments made in favour of it are weak in light of the vulnerabilities
    -- vis \xE0 vis existing desktop fonts and casual piracy -- that it inevitably
    introduces. What Rich suggests is simply evidence of the vulnerability and the
    quickness with which it will be exploited. That he would, as you point out, presumably
    make the same suggestion re. any new embedding bit is simply further evidence
    of the inherent vulnerability in all raw font linking.\r\n\r\nMy second objection
    is that <em>if</em> Microsoft is going to implement support for raw font linking
    but with a self-imposed limitation, that limitation should not be based on associating
    an existing document embedding bit with web served typography. It perpetuates
    the confusion of document embedding and web font linking, introduced by EOT and
    now simply made more confusing by implying that web linkable = installable. \r\n\r\nThe
    first objection overrides the second one: the best thing is simply not to offer
    any support for raw font linking. It isn't necessary, especially not in a browser
    that already supports a legacy EOT format and a soon-to-be-W3C-standard WOFF format."
  created: '2010-06-29 20:11:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "SII>...acting as a roadblock to raw font deployment, [] wasn\u2019t an option
    for the [IE9] team.\r\n\r\nCould it be something Eve gave to Adam a bite of? But
    my suggestion is that IE9, before it\u2019s released, should go back to what IE8
    did for font linking. IE8 is still being advertised during \"That FIFA Show\",
    so it\u2019ll be a while before IE9 can go anywhere anyway. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of
    which, what if all the players on one team, except the goalie, swarmed the referee
    so the referee couldn\u2019t see whether the other team was scoring or not, because
    the goalie just kept scooping the ball out of the net? \r\n\r\nBack on track,
    the IE9 team have time to delete stuff, right?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-29 22:07:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>the best thing is simply not to offer any support for raw font linking.
    \r\n\r\nAnd here is where we basically disagree(d). Any new format is an inviting
    gateway to copyright and trademark violation, as you see, as opposed to a simple
    licensing issue that\u2019s solved more \u201Cnaturally\u201D. Any new format
    makes the browsers, (which employ the end user's device(s) to make derivative
    software), into agents of violation. Any new format spawns conversion programs
    to that format, and these can do \"whatever\" to \u201Cwhatever\u201D as you see.
    And, a new format splintered the effort to get one good format.\r\n\r\nJC> The
    first objection overrides the second one:\r\n\r\nObjections overruled. There is
    no OT format, it\u2019s just a name used by MS and Adobe referring to an ISO spec.
    That spec. contains the ClearType that\u2019s mangling readability, and does not
    provide to users the results of hinting ISO sought when they started OFF. WOFF
    can\u2019t gather meta-data alone (if ever), and whatever surprises were to be
    in the \u201CPrivate Data\u201D, WOFF is not \u201Cthe web standard\u201D, so
    no one will make conversion software that retains it, would you? And the CSS type
    spec. is not well enough informed to meet the challenges of real typography on
    the web, anyway.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d say this is actually better than watching baseball
    played with a butterfly and nets instead of a ball and gloves. It's just sad when
    young readers get in the way. \r\n\r\nCheers! \r\n"
  created: '2010-06-29 22:11:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "(There's lots of good questions and points on this thread. I chose to focus
    on the following for now.)\r\n\r\nSprach Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n<em>Embedding
    bits: You and Ethan may not care much, but I'm sure that many font vendors will
    view modifying embedding bits as a violation of their EULA.</em>\r\n\r\nI can't
    speak for Ethan but I actually \"care\" a lot. Contrary to popular belief, I'm
    a stare decisis kind of guy and not naturally inclined to throw out a system that
    the industry has relied on for a number of years. Not without a good reason. Not
    without thinking things through.\r\nBut I think everybody on this thread realizes
    that the system as it stands isn't going to work on the web. Yet, in IE9, MSFT
    has decided to break with the pack, stick with the bits, and load only \"raw\"
    fonts set to installable embedding.\r\n\r\nA couple of points:\r\n\r\nYesterday
    I found myself reading a short piece in the Harvard Journal of Law & Public policy
    about the concept of \"necessity\" as a legitimate defense to all kinds of otherwise
    illegal activity. (The article was about \"necessity\" in regards to the seizure
    of private property for public purpose under Eminent Domain.)\r\nThe question
    it raised for me was: Under what circumstances might \"necessity\" be reasonably
    viewed as a valid rationale for infringement and/or the breaking of a EULA contract?
    Even in just a moral, if not strictly legal, sense?\r\nIE9 puts web devs in a
    position where, if the embedding bits aren't a certain way, the font doesn't work
    interoperably across browsers. And it won't work in what will become the world's
    most popular browser: IE9. And, presumably, IE10, 11, and 12, too.\r\n(Yeah, yeah,
    they can make a WOFF, an EOT, whatever. That's IF they know what their options
    are.)\r\nAt FontCONF in St. Paul last week, I led a session of about, I think,
    40 or so designers. People who - even if they aren't web designers per se - are
    at least font minded or else they wouldn't have been at the conference. At one
    point I asked the entire group if they knew that there was such a thing as an
    embedding bit. Except for a small group of type designers and a few cogniscenti,
    all I got was a bunch of blank stares. Embedding bits? <em>They had no idea what
    I was talking about</em>.\r\n\r\n&emsp;*Before the web, enforcement of the bits
    was built into software. Why <em>would</em> anybody know about it - the software
    took care of it. But on the web it's different, and we've moved to an honor system
    of sorts. Except that nobody understands there's even a system, let alone what
    \"honorable\" behavior is expected. This is the reality, folks. And in any rational
    strategy, it must be taken into account *\r\n\r\nOnce having purchased a license,
    which may or may not be refundable, what should a web developer do to get that
    font to work interoperably? How many hours should they spend? How many EULAs should
    they try to decipher? Everybody's got families to feed and bosses to satisfy and
    there is very much a \"necessity\" involved in getting the font to work right
    and load as efficiently as possible.\r\nIf there were no legal considerations
    at all, changing the bits to installable for every font would be considered a
    best practice. Period. And since the average web customer will probably be unaware
    that there are special restrictions expected of them beyond the payment of the
    initial license fee and the download of the font file, what do you think they
    are going to do?\r\nThey are going to <em>serve their own self-interests</em>,
    their own <em>necessity</em> and change the bits.\r\n\r\n(I do think, however,
    that most web buyers will realize that redistribution is generally verbotten.
    But that's about it as far as prohibitions.)\r\n\r\nWhy put web developers in
    a position where they have to choose like this? Why force a situation where many
    will unknowingly break the fine print in the contract?\r\nWhat's the point of
    this? I'm missing it.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-30 03:54:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>(Yeah, yeah, they can make a WOFF, an EOT, whatever. That's IF
    they know what their options are.)</em>\r\n\r\nIf IE didn't support any raw font
    linking, the options would be more obvious: WOFF for up-to-date browsers and EOT(-Lite)
    for backwards compatibility in IE6-8. The idea that a desktop installable font
    <em>might</em> be legitimately served to the web is the primary source of confusion
    over web font licensing, and this is why a distinct web font format greatly simplifies
    the situation for users: WOFF = made for web, TTF/OTF = not made for web."
  created: '2010-06-30 04:09:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, WOFF is going to be the web font standard in the only sense that anything
    on the web is standard: formally defined as a standard by the W3C consortium.
    WOFF is going to be the only web font standard; all other formats are, according
    to that standard, optional. WOFF is a container for an OT font. Both the OT font
    and the container may contain metadata. Metadata may be formally defined in terms
    of standard fields in the WOFF spec or formal additions to the OT spec, or it
    may be private and extensible (and some of your colleagues worked hard against
    considerable resistance to make sure that a structure for extensible metadata
    made it into the WOFF spec). Both the WOFF spec and the CSS3 spec are in process,
    which means that they are open to revision and subject to change, so dismissing
    either of these standards as \u2018not well enough informed to meet the challenges
    of real typography on the web\u2019 is premature. They will ultimately be as well
    informed as we strive to make them, which means engaging in the process. I suppose
    it's heck of a lot less work to criticise something as inadequate from the start,
    not engage with other people on improving it, and then say \u2018See, I told you
    so\u2019, but there's a well known analogy about a pot and what you should do
    or get off it.\r\n\r\nSorry. Part of me would love for the whole web typography
    bag to be put under your diktat, with everyone from system and browser makers
    to your fellow font designers simply saying \u2018David\u2019s right, and we should
    just implement whatever he says.\u2019 But that isn't going to happen and if you
    want to influence what does happen then you either need to be engaged in the standards
    process or communicate your ideas <em>clearly</em> to someone who is. I volunteer.
    Seriously, I think you are substantially right about a lot of things, and I <em>try</em>
    to communicate what I understand you to mean and make sure that it is heard where
    it matters, but then you keep saying things that make me think I must have misunderstood
    you last time."
  created: '2010-06-30 04:10:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>There is no OT format, it\u2019s just a name used by MS and Adobe
    referring to an ISO spec. That spec. contains the ClearType that\u2019s mangling
    readability, and does not provide to users the results of hinting ISO sought when
    they started OFF.</em>\r\n\r\nMicrosoft deliberately retained control of the OT
    specification, which is maintained independently of the ISO OFF specification.
    There is, to my knowledge, no formal agreement between Microsoft and ISO that
    says these specifications must remain in sync -- i.e. in the formal, legal way
    that Unicode and ISO 10646 must remain in sync --, only the will of the parties
    that being in sync is a good idea.\r\n\r\n[Adobe? I'm not sure anyone who wasn't
    party to the original Microsoft/Adobe OT agreement actually knows what Adobe's
    stake in all this is any more.]\r\n\r\nNeither the Microsoft OT spec nor the ISO
    OFF spec \u2018contains ... ClearType\u2019. ClearType is a Microsoft rendering
    technology (variously implemented in different MS products). It isn't mentioned
    anywhere in the OT/OFF spec, any more than Adobe's CoolType or Apple's Quartz
    are mentioned.\r\n\r\nYou surely know all this, so why are you making these bizarre
    and nonsensical statements?"
  created: '2010-06-30 04:20:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH>But the larger a screen gets the greater the chance of a manufacturing
    error resulting in a dead pixel.\r\n\r\nOh, you're such a pessimist. Again with
    the dead pixels!\r\nDue to industry secrecy it's very hard to get info on upcoming
    advances in display technology.\r\nMaybe sii, considering his vantage point, might
    be able to shed some light on when we might see some Retina-like displays at larger
    sizes.\r\n\r\nOne thing I found, too, with the Retina display, is that not only
    was I able to rely much less on Zoom to get to a readable text size but also,
    since I was able to read the type within the overall visual context of the page,
    it also helped in comprehension and navigation. I didn't feel like the fly that's
    landed on the portrait painting, like I sometimes do. (Wasn't there a game show
    that had a segment with that as the basis?)\r\n\r\nI've always found having to
    pan and scan the page within a moving window of magnification to be very disorienting.\r\nMuch
    less of that with the higher res. An added bonus.\r\n\r\nWith regards to the technical
    issues you've raised: you're absolutely right, of course. To the practiced eye,
    fidelity to the letter form IS compromised.\r\nThe question is how many people
    are going to really give much of a hoot about it.\r\n\r\nThe answer for those
    bothered by it might simply be the one DB mentioned. If you want that kind of
    resolution and fidelity: Print it! It's never been easier or cheaper to turn to
    print.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-06-30 04:23:21'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Everything Rich said about the embedding bits and web designers is spot on
    and I agree completely. The discourse here seems to be on two separate planes.
    One appears to be mostly academic thinking and the other is grounded in the reality
    of designers wanting to use fonts NOW. In the interest of serving designers and
    getting those brave foundries into new markets, I say do whatever it takes. IE
    wants embedding bits turned on? Turn em on. Foundries worried about fonts being
    stolen? Make them uninstallable.\r\n\r\nWeb developers know nothing about the
    technical aspects of fonts. Nor should they have to in my opinion. Those who demand
    technical expertise from end-users is going to lose."
  created: '2010-06-30 13:33:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Why put web developers in a position where they have to choose like this?
    \r\n\r\n..they didn't have this choice for the last 16 years. I see no guns to
    heads now. \r\n\r\n>Why force a situation where many will unknowingly break the
    fine print in the contract?\r\n\r\nRich, they may or may not be breaking the fine
    print of the contract. I mean, if they are unknowing, as I readily agree most
    are, they don't know there is a contract, or if they do know that's possible,
    whether the fonts they are about to diddle is covered by one. \r\n\r\nThey are
    however, going to a tool and modifying a software product, knowingly...agreed?\r\n\r\n>What's
    the point of this? I'm missing it.\r\n\r\nOne browser developer thought the embedding
    bit should relate to web font serve-ability. \r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-30 13:40:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">the reality of designers wanting to use fonts NOW.\r\n\r\nisn't this actually;
    the reality of designers wanting to use exactly and precisely the style they want
    to use, NOW? I mean most designers have not much clue about exactly which actual
    font 'file' to use NOW... do they? Even if they are free?\r\n\r\n>Those who demand
    technical expertise from end-users is going to lose.\r\n\r\nAnd I compleeetly
    agree with you. Some of them end-users can't even change the battery. And, I'd
    add that we who expect technical and typographic expertise from web developers
    are going to win some, loose some. But those who don't expect technical and typographic
    expertise from web developers are going to find one hungry market with no pay
    out.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-06-30 13:51:48'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "<cite>But those who don't expect technical and typographic expertise from
    web developers are going to find one hungry market with no pay out.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    beg to differ. My four kids are eating better than ever ;-)"
  created: '2010-06-30 16:46:21'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "I agree with Messrs. Hudson and Berlow re: promiscuous font \"diddling,\"
    perpetrator unawares or otherwise.\r\n\r\nOrthogonal to all this, I would point
    out that after installing the IE9 preview on my Win7 box, the difference between
    the Meta Web WOFF demo page in IE9 and Firefox 3.6 is night and day. IE9 is the
    best rendering I've seen yet. FF3.6 is cross-eyed by comparison.\r\n\r\nCompare
    this in IE9 and FF:\r\nhttp://www.edenspiekermann.com/woff/"
  created: '2010-06-30 20:22:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "DB>They are however, going to a tool and modifying a software product, knowingly...agreed?\r\n\r\nSure.
    Absolutely. Happily. Creatively. But in a lot of cases they may not know what
    changes are being made. All they know or care about is that the \"software product\"
    they have modified now works, and before the modification it didn't. Broken versus
    not broken.\r\nAnd in most cases they have an unquestionable right to do such
    modifications.\r\nSo, agreed!\r\n\r\nIf you or anybody or the \"one browser developer\"
    are looking for the embedding bits to provide some kind of lightweight DRM, that
    will only work if the embedding bits are preserved as is. The Catch-22 is that
    by breaking the font for IE9 unless it has the bits set to installable this helps
    ensure that the bits <em>won't</em> be preserved as is. A vicious cycle. Helps
    nothing. It will inconveniences many, though.\r\nA great way to build a market
    for fonts.\r\n\r\nShall we move on to Sii's questions?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-30 21:51:32'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Not so quickly.\r\n\r\nSince you come up with this again and again, some
    quick notes on licensing fonts, EULAs, and \"necessity\" to violate EULA and modify
    fonts:\r\n\r\n<strong>1)</strong> Whenever you license a font, or any other software,
    an online shop will present you the EULA -- and you cannot proceed with the order
    process unless you have (actively) clicked a checkbox to express your consent.
    If you haven't read the EULA, you haven't read it deliberatedly. There is no \"Ups,
    I didn't know.\" There only is a \"Hehe, I didn't want to know.\"\r\n\r\n<strong>2)</strong>
    You don't buy a font, or any other software, you pay a fee for the right to use
    it as specified in the EULA. If you don't like the latter, just don't license
    this font.\r\n\r\n<strong>3)</strong> Since agreeing to the EULA is part of the
    licensing process, and since fsType expresses in bits what the EULA expresses
    in words, it is not an option that the designer/user is surprised about the font
    unexpectedly not doing some things.\r\n\r\n<strong>4)</strong> If \"the font doesn't
    work interoperably across browsers\" as you try to argue for your right to modify
    fonts (changing fsType), then most likely the font was <em>never meant</em> to
    be used as a web font in the first place. No \"interoperability\" issue. Nothing
    \"broken\". Obviously you decided to ignore the EULA.\r\n\r\n<strong>5)</strong>
    In the rather unlikely case that fsType has been set wrongly -- if a font is advertised
    as web font but fsType settings prevent a browser from showing it -- contact the
    foundry so they can correct this by themselves, probably library-wide. Foundries
    do communicate, provide service, etc.\r\n\r\nIn short, the \"problem\" which you
    are trying to construct doesn't exist. No need for a <em>designer/user</em> to
    modify or convert fonts which, again, is not and will not not be permitted by
    most EULAs. If you don't like that, avoid such fonts. Moreover, you are trying
    to reduce it to a mere technical problem (some bits set \"wrongly\", font being
    \"broken\") which it isn't. It is an agreement problem.\r\n\r\nIt's pretty Janus-faced
    of you <strong>1)</strong> that you refer to \"them\" (designers/users) as people
    who just don't know about EULAs kind of as a cheap excuse while <strong>2)</strong>
    that it's actually you, on multiple channels (blog posts, articles, EOTFast manual),
    who tells \"them\" that fonts need to be fixed -- and how to do it. It is not
    \"them\" who think fonts are \"broken\", it's you who tells \"them\" so."
  created: '2010-07-01 11:46:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yeah KL, but Rich is in a different place that goes like this: \r\nBefore,
    they could not reach someone else's berries. \r\nAfter they can reach the berries.
    \r\nFence Broken versus Fence not broken.\r\n\r\nSimple.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-01 12:25:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Oh.
  created: '2010-07-01 13:51:10'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Policy vs. Practice
  created: '2010-07-01 15:09:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten, re. your point no.3:\r\n\r\n<em>fsType expresses in bits what the
    EULA expresses in words</em>\r\n\r\nPart of the issue with fsType embedding bits
    is that they do not, in fact, express the EULA. Obviously a font maker should
    try to set the embedding bits so that they are not in conflict with the EULA,
    but there isn't necessarily a clean relationship between the relatively crude
    options in the embedding bits and the much more precise legal permissions of the
    license agreement. And the relationship only gets messier if, as in this case,
    Microsoft defines a novel software behaviour relative to the embedding bits. It
    is perfectly possible that a font might be installable from an embedded document,
    both in terms of fsType setting and EULA terms, <em>and not licensed for web use.</em>
    Similarly, a font might be licensed for web use and, for IE9 compatibility, have
    its embedding bit set to installable, <em>but not be licensed to be installed
    on a recipient's system.</em>"
  created: '2010-07-01 19:19:37'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "@johnbutler\r\n<em>Orthogonal to all this, I would point out that after installing
    the IE9 preview on my Win7 box, the difference between the Meta Web WOFF demo
    page in IE9 and Firefox 3.6 is night and day. IE9 is the best rendering I've seen
    yet. FF3.6 is cross-eyed by comparison.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're comparing underlying
    font rendering API's here.  IE8/Chrome/FF3.6 render text via GDI, the developer
    release of IE9 is using the Win7/Vista-only DirectWrite API which includes better
    font rasterization.  Support for DirectWrite rendering is already supported in
    nightly builds of Firefox and hopefully will ship enabled by default in the next
    version of Firefox.  XP users (60% worldwide OS share) will see the same font
    rendering as before.\r\n\r\nAs for Safari on Windows, it uses GDI rendering by
    default but switching a pref enables the use of a ported version of Apple's font
    rasterizer.  Although WebKit is open source, the font rasterizer is closed source
    so it's Safari-only.  In general, it does a far better job of rendering unhinted
    ttf fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nJohn Daggett\r\nMozilla"
  created: '2010-07-02 06:01:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "KL>If you don't like that, avoid such fonts.\r\n\r\nI will or I won't but
    I'd like to make the decision in full knowledge of all the facts that might impact
    my work.\r\nAre you actually arguing for secrecy about it? A \"don't tell\" policy?
    Or what?\r\n\r\nYou also seem to think I'm arguing for you to change your license.
    I'm not. That's your business. Do it smart, do it stupid, do it any way you want.\r\nThe
    topic was IE9 enforcing the embedding bits when linking to an OTF or TTF file.\r\n\r\nMy
    take can be summed up by: Be careful what you wish for, because you just might
    get it.\r\n\r\nMSFT will ultimately do what it sees as being in its own best interest,
    I suppose. I don't know what other motivation they would have. We'll see.\r\n\r\nKL>it's
    actually you, on multiple channels (blog posts, articles, EOTManual), who tells
    \"them\" that fonts need to be fixed -- and how to do it.\r\n\r\nYup. I'm one
    of them outside agitators from up North who wants web designers to know how to
    get fonts looking as good as possible, whatever the browser, whatever the platform.
    Thanks for describing me as <em>too informative</em>, I like that a lot.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Richard Fink</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-02 21:19:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>outside agitators from up North</em>\r\n\r\nYou should defend your campaign
    if you feel it's being misunderstood, but likening it to the Civil Rights Movement
    seems pretty unseemly to me."
  created: '2010-07-02 22:09:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I doubt Richard is likening his game to the Civil Rights Movement, Civil
    War perhaps. And... I'd love to see some \"before and after\" of Richard making
    a single font look better, as good as possible, or anything of the sort. I'm not
    sure you are legally or occupationally qualified to do anything but bit twiddling,
    are ya?\r\n \r\nE-Squirrel> I beg to differ. My four kids are eating better than
    ever ;-)\r\n\r\nI am so happy to hear that, Really! And how long have you been
    in the web font business? a month 'r two? do you think the early adopters are,
    as I said, technical and typographic expert, or inexpert web developers, at this
    early stage?\r\n\r\nJH>\u2018David\u2019s right, and we should just implement
    whatever he says.\u2019 \r\n\r\nAgreed. but if the \"cats out of the bag\", \"water's
    under the bridge\", and \"barn-door open\" analogies are true, why bother? If
    on the other hand, this is a continuing evolution of technology and market, and
    if you think freezing it all right here is a good idea, fine!\r\n\r\nI've tried
    to help the windows users (the only ones here who need us past the letter drawing),
    and I'm gone back to work for Mac-elites. I have gotten enough from both sides
    to know who pays and who doesn't pay, (or steals), and who listens as a result,
    as opposed to who doesn't listen (or does the opposite, every friggin' time):).\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-03 14:31:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, letter drawing is where it's at. So who needs help at this point?
    Anyone who wants to get a letter displayed at the size for which it is drawn in
    a situation in which the person coding the web content has no way to know at what
    ppem the text will be displayed to the reader. That seems to me the critical issue
    for optimised web typography, because no amount of font use \u2018recommendations\u2019
    and no amount of size-specific outline designs will do any good if there is no
    standard and predictable mechanism by which those designs are selected and displayed
    for the appropriate sizes <em>regardless of which of half a dozen or more different
    font size units are coded in the CSS.</em> And bearing in mind that even a pixel
    is, apparently, no longer a pixel."
  created: '2010-07-03 19:28:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">regardless of which of half a dozen or more different font size units are
    coded in the CSS. \r\n\r\n\"Actual\" size, (more or less actual size) is needed.
    \"Relative\" is fine. There no other request besides that \"absolute\" be based
    on a reasonable register of sizes (with a 1.1 factor between sizes ala Firefox).
    This is a problem, but as you say nothing maeks any difference is capricious decisions
    are made at Redmond, where one month there is no way they'll support OT on the
    web, and next month they can't see any other choice, and next month.. and so on.
    \r\n\r\n>So who needs help at this point?  \r\n\r\nYou'll see, just give it time.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-05 16:46:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, what do you mean by actual size? I would take that to mean measurable
    size of displayed type, but perhaps you means something else?\r\n\r\nThe problem
    as I see it is that if one is drawing outlines sets optimised to specific pixel
    grids then ppem is the selection criterion for the desired outline set. That means
    one needs to know the ppem size of font to be displayed at a nominal/actual size*,
    which is of course resolution dependent. It's the familiar triangulation of nominal
    size, device resolution and ppem size. Knowing any two of these things allows
    you to calculate the third.\r\n\r\nNow, what normally happens with scalable outline
    fonts is that the calculation to determine what ppem size to render occurs locally,
    at the point at which the text is rendered on the reader's device. That is the
    point at which the rendering engine knows the two parts of information it needs
    -- the nominal type size and the local device resolution -- to be able to calculate
    the ppem size to display.\r\n\r\nOkay, so if we're envisaging a system in which
    a rendering engine, instead of scaling a single outline set to a particular ppem
    size, calls a size-specific outline set, then either the font delivery mechanism
    needs to be informed what the appropriate ppem will be and deliver the correct
    outline set, or the rendering engine needs to be able to select the appropriate
    outline set from available sets for the locally determined ppem size. Within this
    basic split of approaches, I can imagine numerous practical implementations involving
    various ways of packaging and delivering the different outline sets. A single
    font containing multiple outline sets, for example, obviously fits into the second
    model -- post-delivery selection from available sets rather than requested delivery
    of s specific set --, but I can think of at least three reasons why this is a
    less than optimal model (and hence why I don't think GSUB is a good solution to
    size-specific type): TTF/OTF fonts have a built in limit to glyph set size; to
    truly optimise outlines to the pixel grid, different sets benefit from different
    UPMs; downloading all possible sizes for web fonts before making a selection for
    a particular size is a bandwidth issue.\r\n\r\n___\r\n\r\n*For the purpose of
    this discussion, we might as well consider nominal and actual to be the same thing,
    taking into account your \u2018more or less\u2019. In other words, we'll presume
    that if a web designer has specified type in e.g. points in the CSS then the actual
    size will be something reasonably close to the nominal size, taking into account
    rounding of the scaled UPM to the ppem height."
  created: '2010-07-06 01:14:01'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@eliason\r\n\r\nRF>outside agitators from up North\r\n\r\nAh... don't read
    into it. Whenever I hear talk about \"them vs us\" I reflexively burst into a
    bad impression of George Kennedy in \"Cool Hand Luke\". (Or maybe it's Rod Steiger
    in \"In The Heat Of The Night\".) Or maybe, in this case, it's \"Cool Hand Luecke\"
    - he's a good ol' boy, he is.\r\nIt's a bad habit. Online you don't get facial
    expression and tone of voice.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-07-06 02:31:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "RF -- <cite>Are you actually arguing for secrecy about it? A \"don't tell\"
    policy?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat \"secrecy\" and \"don't tell\" policy? I described
    how font licensing works. Which licensing process is the opposite of \"don't tell\".
    It is \"full disclosure\" since you are shown what you asked to agree to. Second,
    I didn't <em>argue</em> for or against anything. I <em>gave a description</em>
    how things are.\r\n\r\nRF -- <cite>The topic was IE9 enforcing the embedding bits</cite>\r\n\r\nTopic
    of this thread is the announcement of IE9 PP3. <em>Your</em> topic is embedding
    bits. <em>My</em> topic is that your topic is a non-issue at best and misrepresentation
    at worst. Summary: Bits express EULA. Font not working indicates violation of
    EULA. Not technical problem but licensing problem. If in doubt, contact foundry.
    \r\n\r\nRF -- <cite>Thanks for describing me as too informative</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    didn't. I described you as avid agitator. Big difference. Presenting well-known
    stuff as long-hidden now-unveiled secret knowledge is cheap rhetorics and an insult
    to Typophile. Here, information have been exchanged freely long before RF started
    pretending to finally uncover how things really are.\r\n\r\nGiven how you distorted
    what I wrote you seem to have serious troubles comprehending even simple texts.
    My compliments though for the nonchalance with which you go over that fact."
  created: '2010-07-06 09:26:36'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: TrueType is dead, long live JavaScript, jQuery and jQuery UI.
  created: '2010-07-06 09:26:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kl\r\nKL>My compliments\r\n\r\nAnd unless you want to embed a bit more of
    a rhetorical shoe up my rear end &ndash; my compliments to you, as well!\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 20:47:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> David, what do you mean by actual size? \r\n\r\nppm = dev.res./points
    per inch. the holy grid.\r\n\r\nJust to reiterate, font size adjustment is just
    something peculiarly useful on the web vs. print. In print, when a designer executes
    a font style change to a document (of fixed-size), they recompose. \r\n\r\nHere\u2019s
    what\u2019d happen, e.g., if Youtube wanted to just use Comic Sans as a Custom
    Web Font. . . \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/comicutube2_5806.png]\r\nComic
    Relief I, perhaps.\r\n\r\nSome designs and some fonts, need not worry about a
    font style change requiring recomposition, but then again, lots of sites can\u2019t
    afford to rewrite their css unless there is that little bit of leverage in the
    recomposition software to account for @ff's diversification of type metrics. \r\n\r\nAnd
    the lack of this command is not just one thing, it's also another. ;)\r\n\r\nComic
    Relief II\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MSVS_5925.png]\r\n\r\nNow
    of course the type designer is at fault for not doing all the glyphs, but how's
    the user ever going to know that. I mean, it's Microsoft's fault as far as the
    user can tell, (even if this is on a Mac in Firefox. ;)\r\n\r\nJH >For the purpose
    of this discussion, we might as well consider nominal and actual to be the same
    thing, taking into account your \u2018more or less\u2019. \r\n\r\n\u201CMore or
    less\u201D, was in the context of the difference between the PS, TeX and Linotype
    versions of 72.xxx points per inch. We had this discussion a while ago \u2014
    I said it\u2019s pretty funny that one can select \u201Csmaller\u201D in a browser,
    and if they already selected \u201Csmallest\u201D, then their type will get bigger?
    The chorus said points are a dead measurment.\r\n\r\nJH >...the point at which
    the rendering engine knows the two parts of information it needs -- \r\n\r\nIt
    never does ever know exactly, if one part is really distance of use, and the other
    part is actual size of type. The first is guessed at by the various developers,
    sometimes in concert, like in Apple environments, sometimes... not so concerted.
    The actual size, as we know, is unknown until the user sees it. \r\n\r\nJH >Okay,
    so if we're envisaging a system... to be able to select the appropriate outline
    set from available sets for the locally determined ppem size. \r\n\r\nYou can
    envisage this, but you cannot execute it, except forever. ;)\r\n\r\nThe bottom
    lines for me on IE9 is that it closes one loop-hole in the founder's need to worry
    about jumping through the hinting -hoop \"just so\",  and IP-wise, it's the end
    of any sort of pretext of helping founders much.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-07 16:44:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@Richard:\r\n\r\nGiven that there are the traditional web-safe fonts, and
    web font subscription services (including\u2014shameless plug\u2014our own WebINK
    at Extensis), all of which avoid these issues and the \"need\" to modify fonts,
    an argument of \"necessity\" to illegally modify font software holds not even
    a ml of water. Neither legal nor moral necessity applies.\r\n\r\n(I recognize
    that there are fonts for which it would not be illegal to make a modification
    to the embedding bits; the question at hand was that if such modification were
    forbidden by the EULA, could it be justified by \"necessity\"?)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nP.S.
    The only plausible exception I could see would be a case where the text could
    not be displayed without a custom font (say, some really obscure language), *and*
    the display of that text on a web page was somehow vital to life and limb or at
    least general welfare. Then you might make a case of \"necessity,\" but it seems
    like a pretty improbable corner case. But sure, I'll recognize the theoretical
    possibility.\r\n\r\n(edited to fix a punctuation error)"
  created: '2010-07-07 21:24:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Thomas Phinney\r\nCongrats on the WebINK Beta. Gonna check it out. Bought
    a Mac, too, so maybe I'll invest in Suitcase for it.\r\n\r\nTP>an argument of
    \"necessity\" to illegally modify font software holds not even a ml of water.\r\nOK.
    But I'm beginning to think I miswrote or wrote unclearly somewhere along the line
    on this thread.\r\nAllow me a \"do over\". Maybe I got too lofty for my own good.\r\n\r\nAll
    I am trying to say - and this is not overreach - is that word will get around
    that if you try to use fonts, because of IE9, there is a hidden \"gotcha\".\r\nNot
    TTF or OTF, JUST FONTS, PERIOD!\r\nThat's not good for font vendors who ask money
    for their product, not good for the \"free\" font people, not good for web designers
    and site owners, not good for frackin' anybody.\r\n\r\nJUST ANOTHER BARRIER, JUST
    ANOTHER STUPID PROBLEM. JUST ANOTHER MISCONCEPTION TO EVERCOME.\r\n\r\nAnd what
    a great marketing strategy for everybody concerned: LET'S MAKE FONTS HARDER TO
    USE!!\r\n\r\nFonts for self-hosting are being sold now, today. How the heck do
    you know that you won't be totally on board with that a few years from now? \r\nYou
    don't and you can't because if people ain't buyin' subscriptions to the fonts
    umbilically connected to your servers and the guys selling fonts for self-hosting
    are making money, you (or the folks who are your suppliers right now) are danged
    well going to do it. (One, I know of, already is.)\r\n\r\nAt that point, there
    are always going to be some customers who will host the fonts raw right along
    with EOT and WOFF no matter what your license says. (Are we going to live in the
    real world or not?) They'll convert to SVG without permission, too. They paid
    their money and F-CK YOU will be their attitude. Do you think IE10 won't have
    the SVG fonts module in it and this whole installability thing will become a joke?\r\nDo
    you expect that customers will come back eager to pay for an expanded license?\r\nAs
    far as I can see, absolutely nothing is being deterred THAT'S WORTH THE OVERALL
    COST.\r\nMaybe I'm missing it, what is being deterred that's worth the hassle
    to everybody?\r\n\r\nYou don't see me complaining about same-origin restrictions,
    do you? Well, there are some people who *are* bothered by it. And they are as
    entitled as me to their opinion. It's their web, too, but I don't see it as an
    issue of principal.\r\nBut when you're talking about one browser breaking interop
    because of a hidden \"bit\" within the \"font software\" when the font software
    can't know what the heck my rights to the font are or aren't, well, screw that.\r\nOn
    the web, the free and the paid swim in the same pond and they all catch the same
    diseases.\r\nIt's stupid from a PR perspective for Microsoft to do it. Just another
    proprietary piece of bullsh-t from the folks that brought us IE6 - that's what
    will be said.\r\nIT'S NOT WORTH THE COST.\r\nIE9 buys into the whole standards-based
    developer wish-list.\r\nWhy nickle and dime over this when it won't do a damned
    thing?\r\n\r\nThat's it. I'm taking my bat, my balls, and I'm goin' home now.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-07 21:29:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I actually agree that it would be simpler and better if IE 9 just skipped
    raw TTF/OTF support altogether, that than to do it, but do it differently than
    everybody else. This is aside from any questions about whether the approach used
    by IE is \"reasonable\" or any such debates, just as a matter of practicality.\r\n\r\nI
    don't necessarily see people taking existing TTF/OTF fonts and twiddling the embedding
    bits to make them work with IE 9, however. Why wouldn't they just use EOT (which
    they'll need to have for IE 8 and earlier)? Only after old versions of IE fade
    away could this become an issue.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-07-08 10:45:20'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: curious as to what folks think about the typographic rendering quality?
  created: '2010-07-09 11:27:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RF> <strong>All I am trying to say[...]is that word will get around that
    if you try to use fonts, because of IE9, there is a hidden \"gotcha\". Not TTF
    or OTF, JUST FONTS, PERIOD! That's not good [...] not good [...] not good [...]
    not good for frackin' anybody. JUST ANOTHER BARRIER, JUST ANOTHER STUPID PROBLEM.
    JUST ANOTHER MISCONCEPTION TO EVERCOME.\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\nThere are hidden got
    yous, barriers, incompletenesses, traps and hindrances all over one place, agreed.
    But we're all professionals here and there is no need to capitalize, if I may
    be so bold. \r\n\r\nMD> ...about the typographic rendering quality\r\n\r\nWell,
    I think it's the best default Windows IE rendering so far.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-15 03:57:50'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: 'What I still don''t quite understand is why it''s not possible to create
    a font rasterizer that does a better job with unhinted TrueType fonts.  For example,
    unhinted Japanese TrueType fonts at default browser text sizes are still relatively
    unreadable, even with DirectWrite.  Apple''s font rasterizer, which ignores hinting,
    does a much better job with these fonts.  Sure, it gives &ldquo;fuzzy&rdquo; results
    compared to a properly hinted version of the same font but hinting is a <strong>huge</strong>
    cost in the case of Japanese given the large number of glyphs that need hinting
    for a basic web font (at a minimum 3000-6000 glyphs) and the relative complexity
    of the glyphs involved. '
  created: '2010-07-15 07:25:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 14:28:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John D: Of course it's possible; you've just said that Apple has done so.
    Still, I'm thinking that there's a chicken and egg problem here as well. Unhinted
    fonts are pretty rare, so there isn't a lot of incentive for MS to invest a bunch
    in optimizing their rendering. Apple optimizes their rendering because they ignore
    all the hints anyway, so hinted fonts are treated the same as unhinted....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-07-16 00:30:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Has anyone looked at CFF based WOFFs in IE9? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 02:06:31'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Unhinted fonts are pretty rare</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd all the years I thought
    it is the opposite!"
  created: '2010-07-16 06:29:21'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Unhinted fonts are pretty rare\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly if one counts
    fonts that were shot through an autohinter. That's hardly the target font for
    Microsoft's text rendering."
  created: '2010-07-16 06:35:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "TP>Unhinted fonts are pretty rare\r\n\r\nYes but fonts designed and hinted
    for the screen are even rarer, Thomas. ;)\r\n\r\nJD>...possible to create a font
    rasterizer that does a better job with unhinted TrueType fonts[?]\r\n\r\nWhat
    you are getting at is the two models; don't change the input \u2014 it just works
    (Apple), and don't change the input \u2014 it doesn't work anyway, (MS), are entering
    the global spotlight. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 12:09:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all, and especially Cool Hand:\r\n\r\nRelevant to this discussion:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://readableweb.com/fixing-web-fonts-a-case-study/\">Fixing Web Fonts,
    A Case Study</a>\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-03 18:27:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "From the <a href=\"http://arstechnica.com/microsoft/news/2010/08/microsoft-releases-final-internet-explorer-9-platform-preview.ars\">Ars
    Technica review</a> of the IE9 preview 4:\r\n\r\n<em>The browser's standards conformance
    has been improved, too. It now earns a score of 95/100 in the Acid3 test. The
    five failing tests are all in areas of the SVG specification that are in transition;
    SVG fonts and SVG SMIL animation. The SVG working group is considering making
    SVG fonts optional, as WOFF fonts\u2014which Internet Explorer 9 will support\u2014appear
    to be the standard that has gained momentum. In a world with widespread WOFF support,
    SVG fonts are unnecessary. The Mozilla project is taking a similar stance.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the penultimate sentence \u2018SVG fonts\u2019 can be replaced by \u2018naked
    TTF/OTF fonts\u2019 and the statement is just as valid. More valid, in fact, because
    unlike SVG fonts the use of naked font linking was never part of a W3C standard
    in the first place."
  created: '2010-08-06 18:10:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"In a world with widespread WOFF support, TTF/OTF fonts are unnecessary.\"\r\n\r\n...is
    a joke right? \r\n\r\nI mean you would have to make no type products, have no
    type expertise, probably be working on some delusional agenda at a single-generation-at-most
    \"foundry\" to believe the installable format all web browsers recreate, the desktop
    and mobile computers use, the only source of WOFF, and a main source of fonts
    in pdfs... is unnecessary. \r\n\r\nDoes not sound \"Bright\" to me. It's good
    we don't have such uninformed and peculiarly blind-to-the-facts de-visions around
    here. ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-09 13:34:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I'll go read the whole Ars T piece but from the quote, it seems like the
    writer doesn't know WTF he's writing about. He's a parrot. Polly want a cracker?\r\n\r\n>In
    a world with widespread WOFF support, SVG fonts are unnecessary.\r\n\r\nClueless
    statement. Apples and oranges.\r\nWe can call it something else if Microsoft and
    Mozilla would prefer - IE supports a functional equivalent called \"Vector Markup
    Language\" (VML) right now and it's how Cufon generates fonts in IE.\r\nIt's been
    supported in IE for a very long time. I guess they feel the whole idea was a mistake
    to begin with. The \"Word Art\" feature in MS Publisher should be dropped, too,
    under the same principle.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://readableweb.com/microsoft-woffles-on-svg-web-fonts-in-ie9/\">Microsoft
    WOFFles On SVG Web Fonts In IE9</a>\r\n\r\nNow, how about font data delivered
    as base 64 data URIs? IE9 doing anything with that?\r\n\r\n(Start the countdown,
    I give it two IE Blog posts before we hear about it.)\r\n\r\nAhhhh, the heart
    has its reasons that reason knows not of. Browser developers, too."
  created: '2010-08-09 17:43:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, 'unnecessary' as a web font format in browsers that support WOFF,
    as is perfectly obvious from both the general context of the discussion and the
    specific context of the parallel to SVG fonts.\r\n\r\nRich, it's the W3C SVG working
    group that is considering making SVG fonts optional to support of that standard.
    It's a decision that reflects two realities: the lack of interest from IE and
    Mozilla in implementing SVG fonts -- IE's VML is similar, but similar doesn't
    count in standards compliance, which is the point of the Ars Technica comment
    --, and the standardisation of WOFF by the W3C. It's an acknowledgement that SVG
    fonts are unnecessary to a web fonts environment if there is a W3C web font standard
    that a) defines a better format (remembering that SVG fonts have no hinting) and
    b) has an explicit conformance specification that states that <em>all</em> web
    font formats other than WOFF are optional, which is the case."
  created: '2010-08-09 19:51:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I can think of some other reasons why MS would not want to support SVG fonts
    in IE (though I also think John's comments above are quite true). I think I'll
    do a blog post about it....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-10 08:51:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I see John, yes you are absolutely correct in the context of an ivory tower
    perspective. But necessity in your world seems to be based purely on theoretical
    knowledge gained while not working the problem yourself. \r\n\r\nWe who do work
    the problem, all know there is a huge difference between SVG and TTF/OT. Or can
    you recommend an SVG to WOFF converter?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 13:15:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, it's a simple enough and purely practical point: if a browser supports
    WOFF, there is no technical need for it to support any other delivery format for
    web served typography. The W3C sensibly recognised this when they made support
    for only one web font format necessary for standards conformance: you only need
    one to make it work. For backwards compatibility with existing browsers, web authors
    and web font services are going to need to continue to serve multiple formats
    targeting various browsers. <em>But the browser itself only needs to support one.</em>
    The browser doesn't gain anything by supporting more than one. Ergo, for any new
    browser that supports WOFF, any other format, whether it is SVG or naked TTF/OTF
    or EOT is <em>unnecessary.</em>\r\n\r\nThe differences between these formats are
    irrelevant to the question of whether any of them is necessary in a browser that
    already supports WOFF."
  created: '2010-08-10 17:02:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>...a simple enough and purely practical point: if a browser supports WOFF,
    there is no technical need for it to support any other delivery format...\r\n\r\nWell,
    there's graphics, and SVG and ttf/otf being served. And that, I believe creates
    a technical need to support them all. Simple enough from a practical point, that
    point being, people serve what they serve and you can't change it with browsers,
    can you... technically? I'm not sure wht practical point you stand at where you
    see otherwise.\r\n\r\n> For backwards compatibility with existing browsers, web
    authors and web font services are going to need to continue to serve multiple
    formats targeting various browsers.\r\n\r\nAnd new browsers will be forced to
    comply with the public's dirty old serving habits forever (with no path from those
    servings to WOFF).\r\n\r\n>The browser doesn't gain anything by supporting more
    than one. \r\n\r\nJust plain silly John, browsers must have something to gain
    by supporting beyond the 1 Technically Required format, ttf/otf, or we wouldn't
    be having a party.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-10 21:28:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The fact that all browsers are, to date, picking and choosing which of the
    non-standard web font formats to support is evidence enough that no browser maker
    thinks it necessary to suppport whatever format a web publisher happens to serve.
    You have it entirely backwards, David: web publishers serve the formats that the
    browsers support, and they target specific formats to specific browsers. If this
    were not the case, if things were as you say, then Google et al would be supporting
    EOT; it is after all still the most widely supported web font format in terms
    of installed browser base. But obviously the fact that people are serving dirty
    old EOTs in order to target IE6-8 means nothing to Chrome and Firefox and Safari.
    The browsers don''t need to comply with what the public serve, the public needs
    to comply with what the browsers support. It is in the interests of both the browsers
    and the public to agree on a <em>standard,</em> so that moving forward the requirements
    become fewer rather than more numerous and the cross-browser behaviour more predictable.'
  created: '2010-08-11 01:33:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"...obviously the fact that people are serving dirty old EOTs in order
    to target IE6-8 means nothing to Chrome and Firefox and Safari.\"\r\n\r\nLol,
    obviously, as there are legal reasons they don't and won't and never will support
    EOT. Is it dead yet?\r\n\r\nBut, technically (as if I were using that term literally,
    and not in some goofy context such as yours), the only font format browsers and
    founders really need to support is ttf/ot. WOFF is a \"trade\" that slows things
    down for browsers, users, and most of all, developers. \r\n\r\nLet's hope that
    trade is worth it, eh (nod-nod-wink-wink)!? I'll get to that much later. \r\n\r\n\"...browsers
    don't need to comply with what the public serve...\"\r\n\r\nReally John, I don't
    think \"the public\" wants to hear this yet, so I have to give you a \"D\" in
    Explanations 101.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-11 12:20:14'
date: '2010-06-23 23:01:28'
title: IE9 platform preview 3 is available

---
