---
author:
  name: sean
  picture: 110570
body: Does any one have any experience with an <a href="http://www.briarpress.org/cgi-bin/briarpress/show.cgi?db=press&amp;uid=default&amp;sb=2&amp;view_records=1&amp;keyword=adana&amp;nh=4&amp;mh=1">Adana
  3 x 5</a>? Good or bad? I know it will never compare to a C&amp;P pilot but I just
  got a bunch of metal type. So I am eager to print something &#40; anything &#41;
  till I can get myself a C&amp;P. Any suggestions? <BR> <BR>Thanks for your help.
  <BR> <BR>SMC
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I&#39;ve only used cylinder presses. Aren&#39;t those better than C&amp;Ps?
    Maybe not. <BR> <BR>BTW, what type did you get? <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-10-15 23:07:36'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: <i>&#34;Aren&#39;t those better than C&amp;Ps?&#34;</i> <BR> <BR>Do you mean
    cylinder presses or Adana? The C&amp;P Pilot is said to be the best hand operated
    table top ever made. That is what I am told anyway. <BR> <BR><i>&#34;BTW, what
    type did you get? &#34;</i> <BR> <BR>Not really sure yet. I just unloaded it and
    now my back is recovering. It has from about 7pt. up to 72pt. The serif is something
    I have never heard of. It starts with a P. I&#39;ll find out this weekend for
    sure and let you know. The sans is a Futura or something. It&#39;s 50&#39;s stuff.
    There are quite a few borders and ding bats too. <BR> <BR>Should be fun anyway.
    Not too picky right now.
  created: '2004-10-15 23:27:31'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Sean <BR> <BR>Table top platen presses were not engineered with significant
    strength or the mechanics required to provide adequate impression and consistent
    inking control. They do provide a lot of hobbyists with an enjoyable experience
    but they are in no way capable of exacting quality production work. They are what
    they are. Have fun, but don&#39;t expect too much from them.
  created: '2004-10-17 06:21:04'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: Gerald,  <BR>What kind of machine do you recommend to someone who want to
    start his own private press?
  created: '2004-10-18 11:35:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Ramiro <BR> <BR>Private press is an older term so I am not exactly sure what
    might be meant by this. It depends upon what you want to do and how extensively
    you want to do it. I assume you mean a non-commercial venture, so I won&#39;t
    discuss commercial machines here.  <BR> <BR>The most popular entry level letterpress
    activity today seems to be card printing. When I started out it was book-related
    printing. There are low-end and high-end presses for both. The problem is any
    of them take up room and make noise &#40;don&#39;t know if these are considerations
    but if so..&#41;. <BR> <BR>I&#39;d say a floor model Chandler &amp; Price would
    do you fine if you were interested in card and related kinds of production, and
    a flatbed cylinder, such as a Vandercook, if you are interested in producing books,
    broadsides, posters. I&#39;ve generally seen and experienced much finer quality
    to the presswork with a Vandercook. The ideal Vandercook is the Universal, followed
    by the SP series. Both of these were quite popular in the 15 and 20 inch bed size
    models. <BR> <BR>The best press, but it takes considerable skill to operate, would
    be a smaller floor model iron handpress, such as an Albion. Small foot pattern,
    no noise, more tool than machine. But relatively expensive, around 5 to 6 grand
    and hard to find. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve used C&amp;Ps &#40;never liked them&#41;,
    but Vandercooks mostly. I had five of them at one time but I&#39;ve pulled back
    quite a bit from my previous printing activity and am down to a small Vandercook
    SP15 that I picked up many years ago &#34;as new&#34; for $200. With the relatively
    recent increased interest in letterpress, Vandercooks now run about $1500 to $3500
    and it is quite hard to find one in excellent condition. My SP15 has its drawbacks
    but I am quite familiar with it and for the kind of work I do, it does me well.
    <BR> <BR>Had a little beauty of an Albion for quite some time but I actually only
    used it once for a collotype project. Regretted having to let it go, kind of wish
    I still had it. The kind of machine that garnered the phrase, &#34;proof of the
    existence of God.&#34;
  created: '2004-10-18 12:37:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I inherited one from my grandfather in 1969. <BR>He had 4 fonts: Times Roman,
    Gill Sans, Palace Script, Bodoni Ultra -- mostly around 10pt size. Plus a lot
    of nice ornaments and rules. <BR> <BR>I used it for a few years, to do invitations
    and stationery for friends and family. <BR> <BR>The quality was a bit iffy, because
    it was so hard to get even inking and pressure, all of which depends on the operator&#39;s
    &#34;touch&#34; to a large degree -- as Gerald explained. But in my self-taught
    isolation, I always thought my problems were due to being a clumsy oaf &#40;which
    was true&#41;, so I soldiered on.  <BR> <BR>Anyway, I discovered what combinations
    of type, ink, paper and layout were most forgiving. Annoyingly, the most interesting
    effects, like Bodoni Ultra in silver ink on dark green card stock &#40;hey, it
    was 1970 - BIBA ruled&#41;, were the ones that were hardest to pull off cleanly.
    <BR> <BR>Using an Adana is certainly the most intimate experience I&#39;ve ever
    had with type, and I will always treasure our relationship, stormy though it was.'
  created: '2004-10-18 12:51:27'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: Hello Nick, <BR> <BR>Got things to do, but thought I would say hello. <BR>
    <BR>I was unaware you had letterpress experience, although it doesn&#39;t surprise
    me. Silver Ink
  created: '2004-10-18 17:11:22'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: I have an Adana and a few fonts, but am missing quoin keys and possibly another
    couple of pieces needed to print with it. I&#39;m trying to divest myself of stuff
    I don&#39;t need, so if anyone in the Bay Area wants it and is willing to let
    me play with it a bit after they get it set up, it&#39;s yours. <BR> <BR>I plan
    on posting this offer on craigslist if I don&#39;t get any response here, but
    I figured this would be a good target audience.
  created: '2004-10-18 22:52:30'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: Gerald Lange, <BR>Thanks for your help. Luckily I am not expecting to much.
    Really I just want to get my hands dirty. Even locking up a small chase, I think,
    may have its merits. Then, I can move onto bigger things as space and &#40; even
    just a little&#41; experience comes along. It will also get me started on gathering
    up some very basic tools. I&#39;ll be using you book as a guide when I get there.
    <BR> <BR>Nick, <BR> Your attachment to your press and the experience you describe
    have kept me encouraged. To hear that someone self-taught and isolated can get
    a few years of use out of such a simple press will keep me soldering on. ; &#41;
    <BR>For now, I managed to a hold of a <a href="http://www.briarpress.org/cgi-bin/briarpress/show.cgi?db=press&amp;uid=default&amp;ID=1047&amp;view_records=1&amp;popup=1">
    Chicago No. 10.</a> I don&#39;t know how it compares to the Adana, but is sure
    is good looking! It is in pretty good shape, but, my plan is to restore it to
    all of its original glory. It will be quite pretty- gold details and all. It is
    a first press anyway. Now I need rollers! Eh. <BR> <BR>Hrant,  <BR>As for the
    type I got I am still identifying some of it but I know I do have quite a bit
    of Piranesi. Not something I would have picked out but it could work for greetings
    and the like. I need a nice Roman. I plan to see a man about a horse &#40; so
    to speak &#41; before to long. He has tons of type that he will never use again.
    I buttered him up awhile back to see how he would feel parting with it. Let&#39;s
    hope it worked because now I have a press. <BR> <BR>Gerald Giampa , <BR>I have
    orded a copy of <i>Printing for Pleasure</i> per your advise. Thanks for the help.
    <BR> <BR>Sean
  created: '2004-10-19 15:18:38'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: seanmichael, <BR> <BR>Consider some rare type, Jim Rimmer in Vancouver. M
    &amp; H in San Francisco has many worthy faces and they cast reasonably hard types.
    Beware
  created: '2004-10-19 16:49:18'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: Anyone interested in this? <BR> <BR><a href="http://cgi.ebay.co.uk/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;category=3180&amp;item=3845618936&amp;rd=1&amp;ssPageName=WDVW"
    target="_blank">http://cgi.ebay.co.uk/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&amp;category=3180&amp;item=3845618936&amp;rd=1&amp;ssPageName=WDVW</a>
    <BR> <BR>I might think about buying it myself, but my house has too often been
    refuge for large, nearly-working machines of one sort or another...
  created: '2004-10-19 22:38:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'This guy is selling the following: <BR>&#34; <BR>Collectible Antique for
    Hobbyist or Professional <BR>5&#34;x8&#34; Kelsey Hand Letter Press &amp; Type
    &#40;Model P, table top&#41; <BR>With ALL manuals, custom made work/storage table,
    drying racks, etc. <BR>All in excellent condition, 85% never used. <BR>Will consider
    selling separately. <BR>Asking only $900.00 for all! <BR>&#34; <BR>Kent Hagedorn:
    973.729.7970 <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-27 06:49:04'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: Well, I got my press and I have to say I am in love with it. I&#39;ve even
    printed a small picture of it and put it in my wallet. <BR> <BR>And I must say
    that &#34;Printing for Pleasure&#34; is an excellent companion to my most wonderful
    machine - however small they both may be. <BR> <BR>I am now looking for some advise
    / opinions regarding. <BR> <BR>First; <BR>Really, my press is in good working
    order. It has what I would call the usual mild to moderate rust that you might
    expect. Basically the parts that had no paint on them have a thin sheet of rust
    on the that can easily be removed with steel wool. My question is this; how far
    should I take this process? Should I keep it &#34;nicked&#34; and aged? Or should
    I pimp it out a bit? Repaint it black - make it shiny? <BR> <BR>Second; <BR>While
    I have some type, I really doubt I can live with it. So, I am looking for a nice
    serif roman in about 10pt. to start. I know the type of Jim Rimmer was suggested
    already. But cost is an issue for me. Because, even if I love my press, I have
    never really letterpress printed, and I am not sure how much I will love <i>it</i>
    &#40; though I suspect I will &#41;. Good type seems essential for the beginner.
    Does any one have any suggestions on some good type at a decent price for me?
    <BR> <BR>And, what is up with brass type? <BR> <BR>Thanks, <BR>Sean
  created: '2004-10-29 18:45:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; should I pimp it out a bit? Repaint it black - make it shiny?  <BR>
    <BR>'
  created: '2004-10-29 18:53:43'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: How is ACME type?
  created: '2004-10-29 18:55:30'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Sean <BR> <BR>Brass type &#40;as well as zinc type&#41; is usually used for
    stamping, such as by bookbinders or for foil stamping where the type needs to
    be heated. Lead type doesn&#39;t often fair well in this regard. <BR> <BR>Acme
    &#40;Chicago&#41; was a Monotype outfit. They were pretty good casters actually.
    But, as opposed to foundry type, Monotype will barely stand up to three printings
    before it has to be thrown in the hell box.
  created: '2004-10-29 20:09:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Sean <BR> <BR>Just a further note on this. My first new type was purchased
    from Acme and I bought from them many times over the years. Along with Detroit
    Type Foundry, they were my most trusted sources for Monotype casting. I believe
    that both are long gone now. <BR> <BR>Best current source, is Michael Bixler.
    Great selection of English Monotype faces. Excellent work. As I recall, all the
    Edward Tufte books were comped by the Bixler foundry. <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.mwbixler.com/"
    target="_blank">http://www.mwbixler.com/</a>
  created: '2004-10-30 07:55:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Gerald, question: <BR>Do you think the &#34;depth of drive&#34; of the Monotype
    faces at ArcheType are 0.03&#34; or 0.05&#34;? <BR>And: Since the depth affects
    sort strength, might the difference in depth determine how kerned the &#34;j&#34;
    for example is made? I ask because in the Monotype Basekerville 24R print I made
    on Tuesday the &#34;j&#34; has a huge left sidebearing, but in the sample in Sutton&#39;s
    Atlas the spacing is not nearly as bad. So maybe it&#39;s due to neck depth? <BR>
    <BR>BTW, I do realize that &#34;j&#34; is almost always an initial letter in English,
    I just think that Slovenians are people too. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-30 19:26:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Hrant <BR> <BR>Don&#39;t know. If you had one of those old Pittman depth gauges
    though, we could sure find out. I missed one on eBay just last week. An ex-apprentice
    broke mine when she was cleaning the place and knocked it off the cabinet. <BR>
    <BR>Deeper depth would generally &#34;indicate&#34; strength. Foundry metal is
    harder and stronger than Monotype and would thus likely have a deeper depth. It
    has better metallurgy &#40;includes copper in the mix&#41;, and could be cast
    slower &#40;longer&#41;, at higher temperatures and under higher pressure, on
    foundry casters &#40;proprietary machines, sort of&#41;. <BR> <BR>A j on a foundry
    caster would be fitted to the body in a continous manner &#40;and would likely
    not vary much from casting to casting&#41;. A j on a Monotype could be fitted
    to the body in a relative way, and even cast on a wider or narrower body. So the
    Sutton specimen would not necessarily represent the fitting across the board.
    Monotype machines weren&#39;t proprietary in the sense that they were sold to
    printers, typesetting firms, et al, and the  owner-operator could adjust the character
    on the body however he chose, within obvious restriction. <BR> <BR>Slovenians
    may be people, as you say, but they sure weren&#39;t much of a market for Monotype
    I&#39;d bet.
  created: '2004-10-30 22:10:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think I can measure the neck by putting some thin spacing flush against
    the base to see about how far from the face it is. Or maybe by figuring out if
    it was from the UK or the States, since Bixler says the latter used lesser depth.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; the owner-operator could adjust the character on the <BR>&#62;
    body however he chose, within obvious restriction. <BR> <BR>Wow. Scary. I assume
    there was a &#34;default&#34; though, so the qusetion becomes: How often do you
    think this was actually carried out? And did it generally happen for kern reduction
    &#40;to reduce breakage&#41;? <BR> <BR>BTW, it&#39;s interesting that the Bixler
    sample of Monotype Baskerville doesn&#39;t even show the &#34;j&#34;... <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-30 22:22:25'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Hrant <BR> <BR>Was hoping you would mention the Czech Printing Office&#39;s
    close alliance with Monotype. Alas. <BR> <BR>There could easily have been two
    different J&#39;s. One on a regular body &#40;to, as you surmise, reduce breakage&#41;
    and another on a smaller body &#40;with the J overhanging the body&#41;. No uncommon
    with characters such as the cap W. <BR> <BR>When we ordered Monotype sorts it
    was generally required to send a cap M from the existing font so that the operator
    could align the characters to the correct position on the body. Baseline, side
    bearings, etc. That would &#34;sort of&#34; ensure that the new sorts matched
    what you already had. Not all suppliers were competent at this!!!! <BR> <BR>There
    was a lot of possible variance. You could have characters kerned to each other.
    For instance, a &#34;y&#34; and a period kerned close on one body. So Monotype
    was quite flexible in this regard and therein lay the problem.
  created: '2004-10-30 23:14:15'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'Monotype depth of drive: <BR>American composition cellular mats are .030&#34;
    depth. <BR>American large composition cellular mats 14 to 24 pt inclusive are
    .050&#34; depth. <BR>American Giant Caster Caster mats 42 to 72 point are .065&#34;
    depth. <BR> <BR>British Monotype composition mats, all sizes from 5 to 24 point
    are .050&#34; depth. <BR>British Monotype Super Caster mats are .065&#34; depth.
    <BR> <BR>All of these mats are interchangeable between all models of American
    and British Monotype caster with the appropriate matrix holders and molds. <BR>
    <BR>The strength of kerns is anhanced with a deeper drive, so type cast from British
    Monotype cellular mats is stronger than that cast on .030&#34; depth American
    mats. <BR> <BR>The deeper or shaller the drive has no bearing on how closely the
    type can be fitted, since the punches are milled to a vertical wall at both left
    and right sidebearing, and at the head and foot to avoid hanging of the body pointwise.
    <BR> <BR>This verticality does not create a difficulty in allowing the matrix
    to be lifted off the newly cast letter. <BR> <BR>The problem of variance in alignment
    from one series of casting from another is completely operator oversight. Each
    series of typeface has a strict and rigid standard of alignment for the baseline
    in the form of a numbered steel alignment slip &#40;sort of like the Greenwich
    Time&#41; which is used on a viewing stand when aligning the cast. <BR> <BR>Setwise
    fitting is also accurate if certain procedures are observed: an operator can use
    either the em dash centered setwise on the body or in the case of British Monotype
    cell mats, an alignment &#34;star&#34; is placed in the matrix case. If this is
    centred point and setwise, alignment and fit are accomplished accurately all in
    one. <BR> <BR>The matter of Monotype type being inferior to foundry is of course
    true to a degree. <BR> <BR>1. When a person is buying Monotype compsoition castings,
    whether it is in the form of comped pages or packaged &#34;fonts&#34;, that person
    is not really buying a type font that is meant to last forever. It is a shame
    that the foundries that have done and are still casting composition castings as
    foundry fonts do not make a note of the fact that it is not foundry type. By its
    nature comp cast type is made in a soft grade of metal, and the Monotype Composition
    Caster does not have the physics or the strength to deliver the molten metal into
    the mold cavity in a dense enough manner to make foundry type. A foundry automatic
    caster works on an entirely different principle verging on brute force. When I
    cast a font of 10 point for somebody on the Composition Caster, I use hard resmelted
    foundry metal &#40;ATF, S&amp;B&#41; and the like in the melting pot. This makes
    the type last a lot longer, but it still is not Foundry type. <BR> <BR>2. Monotype
    Composition mats used on the Thompson Caster with hard foundry metal is very nearly
    as good as any ATF or Stepehnson Blake type, but ATF is still superior. The same
    stands for Monotype Display mats used on the Thompson to cast display type. I
    won&#39;t argue that the results are 100% as good as ATF, but ATF ain&#39;t there
    anymore, and the only type a person can find from that company is now either worn,
    missing characters or to be found in broken sizes. If I were buying type to begin
    a life in letterpress I wouldn&#39;t turn up my nose at well made Monotype type.
    <BR> <BR>3. Anyone insisting that they must have typoe that is made on a foundry
    automatic &#40;Barth, Kusterman etc&#41; can have it. Theo Rehak of The Dale Guild
    is an ex-ATF foundryman, and operates more than a dozen of their old Barths, making
    limited selections of types. I may be wrong, but I think if anyone wants a full
    run of ATF Garamond from 8 point to 72 they might be out of luck. On the other
    hand if they will settle for well made Monotype, it&#39;s possible. <BR> <BR>Making
    type, aside from knowing how to release the pump handle, is a matter of how much
    care the typefounder is willing to put into making the type. I have just completed
    cutting and casting one of my new designs: 24 and 36 point Duensing Titling. The
    fonts were cast on my Thompson. I discovered shrtly after I shipped off the last
    font, that the extremely long tail on the Q was far to fragile to last. I got
    bust an re-cut both the Q and the U to an .075&#34; depth of drive &#40;since
    for most applications Q and U are a pair&#41; and cast up more than enough replacement
    letters to go with the fonts. Since they came out .025&#34; over type-height,
    I milled the feet down to make the type the correct height. I have mailed these
    off to the people who bought the fonts so that they won&#39;t have any breakage
    problems on the press. This last comment is only to stress that things can be
    done to make type better. I certainly don&#39;t want anyone to buy a font from
    me and be sorry they did. <BR> <BR>Some of when casting for ourselves, will cast
    special kerns &#40;as Hrant noted; y.&#41; and things like ATA, AYA etc. <BR>
    <BR>Many fine pieces of work have been and are still being done using Monotype.
    If I could offer this: Monotype composition type was never intended to fill your
    cases for use from here to the end. On the other hand if you don&#39;t punch the
    crap out of it on the press it will serve you pretty well. <BR> <BR>Regarding
    table top presses, I agree that the Kelsey is the one most likely to break your
    heart. The Adana models are generally better. Chandler &amp; Price platens are
    great if you don&#39;t expect to fill the chase with type and have it print solidly.
    It is wiser to get a bigger format than you think you need because a 14x22 or
    a 12x18 will print small stuff as well as big work, but an 8x12 or a 10x15 has
    its limits. <BR> <BR>I am in the last few stages of refurbishing a much abused
    14x22 Colts Armory. I expect a lot from it because I put a heap of money into
    getting it and moving it here. The Colts Armory&#39;s reputation is one of great
    strength, so I am reasonably sure it will print whatever I throw at it. I will
    be using Monotype incidentally. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer'
  created: '2004-10-31 23:09:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Thanks for the superb insight - this is definitely a keeper. <BR> <BR>--
    <BR> <BR>So the Monotype Baskerville I&#39;m looking at, being 24 point, must
    be 0.05&#34; deep no matter what. <BR> <BR>&#62; The strength of kerns is anhanced
    with a deeper drive <BR> <BR>&#62; The deeper or shaller the drive has no bearing
    <BR>&#62; on how closely the type can be fitted <BR> <BR>I&#39;m seeing some room
    between those two statements. <BR>If a deeper drive makes for stronger kerns,
    then something like the &#34;j&#34; is liable to have its left sidbearing exagerated
    to improve strength depending on depth &#40;as well as alloy quality&#41;. So
    maybe the guy who cast the font I&#39;m dealing with was a tightwad &#40;he used
    a cheap alloy, and hated having to deal with broken sorts&#41;, so he gave the
    &#34;j&#34; a huge left sidebearing. Or am I missing something? <BR> <BR>It seems
    to me that when a &#34;user&#34; casts a Monotype font, a balance is struck between:
    <BR>- sort &#40;and clean-up effort&#41; preservation, <BR>- alloy quality, <BR>-
    spacing integrity. <BR> <BR>Also, at the type design end, letterform fidelity
    and spacing integrity can be reduced to accomodate the <i>eventual</i> physical
    issue of broken sorts. <BR> <BR>Does that makes sense? <BR> <BR>&#62; as Hrant
    noted; y. <BR> <BR>For the record: that was Gerald. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-01 18:19:36'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: 'Hrant <BR> <BR>I am not certain why the j would have a wide left sidebearing.
    Somebody maye indeed have shifted the matrix to the right as a special casting
    to make the tail of the letter a lesser kern, although I think that would make
    the fit look terrible. <BR> <BR>In a type size as small as 24 point I wouldn&#39;t
    have any fear of the kerned tail breaking off, since it is almost certainly a
    drive of .050&#34;, and is quite strong in relation to its thickness to its kern,
    if that makes any sense. On the other hand if you take as an example the generous
    kern on the tail of the cap Q in 24 point Garamont 248, there is a chance of breaking
    the kern off in the planing down of the forme or in the printing. This is still
    at .050&#34; depth of drive. The same instance in 36 point can be very fragile,
    and must be handled with care in the lockup and planing. And giving it exaggerated
    impression is certain to both break kerns and wear the type. I like an evident
    amount of impression, but I have never been a &#34;tactility junkie&#34; . . .
    is that the expression? <BR> <BR>When I set up a font on the caster, I make certain
    that the base alignment and setwise position is correct, and then I carefully
    follow the 1/4 incremental markings on the matrices. My attitude is that Monotype
    took a lot of care in the fitting of the suite of matrices, and that is wise to
    follow it. It&#39;s only very rarely that I will feel that they have done something
    strange with the fit, and I may change the ocasional letter&#39;s stance on the
    body, but that&#39;s not very often. Lanston did a great job of making their fonts
    look right. <BR> <BR>A couple of days ago I attended the Alcuin Wayzgoose at the
    Vancouver Public Library. It was a great success, full of joy, fine work and conviviality.
    An ex-student of mine, along with Rollin Milroy of Heavenly Monkey Press &#40;that&#39;s  real
    name&#41; came up to my table and showed me a book that they had worked on together;
    she writing and designing it, and Rollin printing it. <BR> <BR>The text was in
    12 point Garamont 248 with Italic and Small Caps that I had cast for the project.
    I have to say that they made they type look good, or the type made the book look
    good. Summation: the Monotype printed beautifull, and Rollin has dissed it back
    into the case for future use. Rollin prints with a blend of impression, restraint,
    and good taste. <BR> <BR> <BR>Many Monotype foundries, both internal and commercial,
    have in the past used a soft grade of metal. In the shop I apprenticed in the
    composing room was predominently Linotype, so the Monotype Orphan Annie was compelled
    to use the same soft metal. It was JW Boyd&#39;s habit to treat it as a non-distribution
    system, so we used the type for the most part just once and then it went into
    the hell-box. <BR> <BR>So as not to suggest that this type was good for only the
    one-time use, I have to tell you a strange story: After 80 years in business the
    company eventually abandoned all letterpress, and the composing room effects and
    equipment went to a smaller printer, who carried on using it for some years. About
    15 years ago that company sold the same stuff off cheap to a friend of mine who
    was operating a fine press. About six years ago she called me and  told me she
    had a bunch of type, and that I could have it. Once I got the cases home I was
    flabbergasted so discover that two of the cases  containing 14 and 18 point Nicholas
    Cochin were types that I had cast when I was about 19 or so. It was certainly
    the fonts I had cast at JW Boyd becuase of the unusual system we had of laying  extra
    caps in the boxes abopve the cap side of the case. The type &#40;linotype metal,
    Monotype cast&#41; is still useable today after more than fifty years. A young
    student from a local art college worked at my workshop for five days and set a
    broadsheet of about 50 lines in the 18 point. It was necessary to pick out about
    a half a dozen worn letters and replace them with better ones. <BR> <BR>Even though
    I have the same matrices that came from Boyd&#39;s, and can now cast new type
    on the Thompson, I will always keep the old fonts. <BR> <BR>In any case, there
    is Monotype and there is Monotype, depending on how it was cast. I know that is
    small comfort to any person buying type. on the other hand there is a lot of ATF
    type out there that is worn all to hell. It is just as easy to wear out good hard
    foundry type  in a hundred impressions if the person at the press overdoing the
    impression. It is also very possible to break kerns on ATF type if it&#39;s not
    handled properly. Sorry for the length of this post. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer'
  created: '2004-11-01 23:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; is quite strong in relation to its thickness <BR>&#62; to its kern,
    if that makes any sense. <BR> <BR>I think I understand: the strength of a kern
    depends on the ratio of drive depth over point size &#40;all else -like alloy
    quality- being equal&#41;, meaning that smaller sizes need less drive to maintain
    adequately strong kerns. So looking at the numbers in your Halloween post, I guess
    the 30s range is the most liable to break? <BR> <BR>&#62; &#34;tactility junkie&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Tell me about it. The stuff some people do competes favorably with Braille...
    <BR> <BR>&#62; Heavenly Monkey Press <BR> <BR>:-&#41; <BR>My own press is [tentatively]
    called the Idle Pig Press. <BR> <BR>&#62; .... 14 and 18 point Nicholas Cochin
    were types <BR>&#62; that I had cast when I was about 19 or so. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s
    too much! <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-02 18:46:11'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: 'It may seem off topic at this point. But I thought I would give you an update
    on my press. I have managed to &#34;pimp&#34; it out. No... not chrome. But it
    looks sweet and sounds even sweeter. Smooth as a whistle so far.  <BR> <BR>It
    turns out I have a Number 11. <BR> <BR>And, I have a new set of rollers on order
    from Tarheel.  <BR> <BR>One thing I have found out in my letterpress adventures
    is that the people I have spoke with so far are a great help and eager to do so.
    Everyone has been so nice even if my press is dinky. But as John from letterpressthing
    said; &#34;you have to crawl before you can run.&#34; <BR> <BR>So, to those that
    have been so helpful - thanks a bunch! <BR> <BR>Anyone know where I can get a
    10pt or 12pt Baskerville for a good price? : &#41; <BR> <BR>Sean.'
  created: '2004-11-02 23:37:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I don&#39;t know, but there&#39;s some original Baskerville books on sale
    on eBay!! That&#39;s my second &#34;dayng&#34; of the day. Ten minutes left! <BR>
    <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-11-02 23:48:33'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: You can get Baskerville in  a range of sizes from M&amp;H Type in San Franciso.
    Keep in mind that it&#39;s not hard metal in the 6 to 12 point sizes, so it&#39;s
    best to keep the impression light. <BR> <BR>Jim Rimmer
  created: '2004-11-03 01:54:03'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: Ok, this may sound like a stupid question at this point. But... <BR> <BR>I
    am ready to order Baskerville. &#40; Thanks Jim. &#41; <BR> <BR>For now, I am
    just getting a complete set of upper and lower case. How much spacing and leading
    do I order? It is sold by the pound. <BR> <BR>I will be getting Baskerville 10pt.
  created: '2004-11-03 18:47:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'It would be a shame not to have &#40;or leave the possibility open for&#41;
    the swash italic caps, which are available in the ATF&#42; cut but not the Monotype.
    But as Jim said, an ATF would be hard to locate - and I suspect more expensive
    as a result. But the italic is so much better &#40;except for the &#34;g&#34;&#41;.
    Dunno. But in any case it&#39;s great you&#39;ll be buying some Baskerville! My
    advice: get the 12; it seems to me that Baskerville is a design that&#39;s most
    happy slightly large. Or maybe an 11, if they have it. <BR> <BR>&#42; BTW, one
    thing about the ATF cut is that it&#39;s a Fry&#39;s Baskerville, not a &#34;classic&#34;,
    which means it&#39;s a bit different &#40;most notably in the &#34;a&#34;, &#34;C&#34;
    and &#34;Q&#34;&#41;. But -as Raph actually pointed out to me- the 12 point ATF
    Baskerville is particularly authentic for some reason - it even has the right
    &#34;Q&#34;. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-03 19:11:33'
- author:
    name: sean
    picture: 110570
  body: Ok, when it comes to ordering type I&#39;ll need spacing. <BR> <BR>What do
    I need?  3-to-the-ems, or 4-to-the-ems, or quads, or what? <BR> <BR>What is 3-to-the-em?
    I don&#39;t even know what that is. <BR> <BR>Or <BR> <BR>Should I just get &#34;a
    5 pound assortment of spacing material that contains everything in amounts proportional
    to common usage&#34;? <BR> <BR>My press is pretty small. I think this is overkill.
    <BR> <BR>And how do I order leading? <BR> <BR>S.
  created: '2004-11-04 00:16:17'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Sean <BR> <BR>You would need a range of quads and spacing for every point
    size. 3-to-the-em are three spacers that are the equivalent to the em in that
    size, eg, in 24-pt, 3-to-the-em would measure 8-pt by 24-pt, 4-to-the-em would
    measue 6-pt by 24-pt.  <BR> <BR>Contact me off list as I have a couple thousand
    pounds of spacing and thins &#40;all sorted&#41; that I am selling, and new leading
    as well. <BR> <BR>Gerald Lange
  created: '2004-11-04 00:34:36'
date: '2004-10-15 22:55:24'
node_type: forum
title: Table top letterpress

---
