---
author:
  name: Arno Enslin
  picture: 117576
body: "When I was coding features for Frode (<strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/71588\">Automatic
  indexed numerals</a></strong>), I have noted, that they only work, if I put the
  substitution rules into lookups. In case of the ss01 feature, I need at least one
  lookup, because I wanted to make use of the same rules in the ss02 feature. But
  I absolutely don\u2019t know, why it was required to create more than one lookup
  in the ss01 feature. And in case of the calt feature my consideration was, that
  I don\u2019t need lookups at all. So I would like to know, why the ss01 and the
  calt feature don\u2019t work without lookups and how I can determine, how many lookups
  I need and how many rules I can put into a lookup. With regard to the lookups the
  three feature files are the result of try and error, but this is not an effective
  working method, because it costs time and additionally I am not sure, whether my
  lookups are the best way with regard to the compilation or compression of the font
  (the aesthetic of the code).\r\n\r\nAnd another thing, that I don\u2019t understand
  is, why I cannot call a lookup more than one time (where the one time is the definition
  itself) in a feature. With regard to that question have a view into <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/2_Features%20%5Balternative%20ss01%20and%20ss02%5D.fea_.txt\">2_Features
  [alternative ss01 and ss02].fea_.txt</a>.\r\n\r\nHere are all the three files (They
  work exactly as intended; tested in FLS.):\r\n\t\t<ul>\r\n\t\t\t<li><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/1_Features%20%5Bss01%20and%20ss02%5D.fea_.txt\">1_Features
  [ss01 and ss02].fea_.txt</a></li>\r\n\t\t\t<li><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/2_Features%20%5Balternative%20ss01%20and%20ss02%5D.fea_.txt\">2_Features
  [alternative ss01 and ss02].fea_.txt</a></li>\r\n\t\t\t<li><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/3_Features%20%5Bcalt%5D%20%5Bbased%20on%201%5D.fea_.txt\">3_Features
  [calt] [based on 1].fea_.txt</a></li>\r\n\t\t</ul>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Okay, I am simplifying my questions.\r\n\r\nWhy is the lookup needed in the
    following code?:\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\nlookup alpha {\r\nsub bracketleft
    one one' bracketright by A;\r\n} alpha;\r\nsub one' A by A;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\n[11]
    is replaced by [AA] as intended.\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\n#lookup alpha
    {\r\nsub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;\r\n#} alpha;\r\nsub one' A by
    A;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nBut with the code above [11] results in [1A].\r\n\r\nSecond
    question: Why can\u2019t I call a lookup registered with the same languagesystem
    statement?\r\n\r\nI cannot code \u2026\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\nlookup alpha
    {\r\nsub bracketleft one' bracketright by A;\r\nsub bracketleft one one one' bracketright
    by A;\r\nsub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;\r\n} alpha;\r\nlookup beta
    {\r\nsub one' A by A;\r\n} beta;\r\nlookup beta;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\n\u2026
    but I have to code\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\nlookup alpha {\r\nsub bracketleft
    one' bracketright by A;\r\nsub bracketleft one one one' bracketright by A; #The
    first one will be substituted in lookup gamma, the second one in beta.\r\nsub
    bracketleft one one' bracketright by A; #The first one will be substituted in
    lookup beta.\r\n} alpha;\r\nlookup beta {\r\nsub one' A by A;\r\n} beta;\r\nlookup
    gamma {\r\nsub one' A by A;\r\n} gamma;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nHow can I make
    out, that I manually have to add a lookup without testing?"
  created: '2010-06-30 16:19:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nI think what you're really asking for is when to put substitutions
    into one lookup vs. separate lookups. After all, \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 {
    \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nreally is equivalent to\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01_01 { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01_01;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01_01 { \r\nsub a by
    a.ss01; \r\n} ss01_01;\r\nsub b by b.ss01; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nis equivalent
    to: \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01_01 { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n}
    ss01_01;\r\nlookup ss01_02 { \r\nsub b by b.ss01; \r\n} ss01_02;\r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    statement <code>lookup</code> in the AFDKO syntax can be omitted for brevity \u2014
    then all substitutions within one feature definition (or those before an explicit
    <code>lookup</code> opening or after an explicit closing of a lookup) are treated
    as one lookup. However, I recommend always at least thinking in terms of lookups,
    i.e. as if the <code>lookup</code> statements were always there. \r\n\r\n> How
    can I make out, that I manually have to add a lookup without testing?\r\n\r\nThat's
    very easy. \r\n\r\n1. The OpenType Layout engine splits the line into \"runs\"
    of glyphs of the same font formatting (family, style, size, color etc.), script
    (writing system) and directionality (LTR, RTL). For continuous Latin-script text
    set in the same font, one line is one run. \r\n\r\n2. Within each run of glyphs,
    all lookups associated with the features that are being applied to the run, are
    executed in the order defined within the font (the ordering of the lookups, or
    in the AFDKO syntax, the order of the feature definitions and the lookup definitions
    within them). \r\n\r\n3. Each lookup is executed in one pass through the current
    run of glyphs. \r\n\r\n4. Each pass proceeds through the run glyph by glyph. The
    substitutions defined in the lookup are searched for the \"best match\" for the
    current glyph, and if found, that best match is executed. This modifies the run
    and proceeds to the next unprocessed glyph. If no best match is found, it proceeds
    to the next glyph (without modifying the run).  \r\n\r\n5. After one lookup has
    been executed, the next lookup is executed in the next pass on the *output* run
    of the previous lookup. \r\n\r\nSo if you have the code\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt
    { \r\nlookup calt_01 { \r\nsub A by B;\r\nsub B by C; \r\nsub C by D; \r\n} calt_01;\r\nlookup
    calt_02 { \r\nsub B by E; \r\n} calt_02;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nand you have
    the glyph run\r\n\r\n<code>A B A B A B A B</code>\r\n\r\nand the <code>calt</code>
    feature is being applied, then first the <code>calt_01</code> lookup is executed
    on the input glyph run, so the output glyph run is: \r\n\r\n<code>B C B C B C
    B C</code>\r\n\r\nand then that output glyph run becomes the input glyph run of
    the <code>calt_02</code> lookup, which is executed and the final output glyph
    run is: \r\n\r\n<code>E C E C E C E C</code>\r\n\r\nIn short: <strong>Each lookup
    is one \u201Cpass\u201D through the text. Within one lookup, the \u201Cbest match\u201D
    is found for each glyph, and then the next glyph is processed, until the end of
    the text. The next lookup is executed on the text that comes out of the previous
    lookup</strong>. \r\n\r\nTo make a very rough analogy, substitutions within one
    lookup are mutually exclusive when stepping through each glyph, while substitutions
    in separate lookups are executed one after another so that the next lookup takes
    notion of the modifications done by the previous one. \r\n\r\nI hope this helps,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-01 00:45:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<code>> feature calt {\r\n> sub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;\r\n>
    sub one' A by A;\r\n> } calt;</code>\r\n\r\n> But with the code above [11] results
    in [1A].\r\n\r\nThere is one lookup defined in your <code>calt</code> feature
    (implicitly). Your feature definition is equivalent to: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    calt {\r\nlookup delta { \r\nsub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;\r\nsub
    one' A by A;\r\n} delta;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nYou have the input glyph run
    <code>[11]</code>.\r\n\r\nThe lookup <code>delta</code> steps through the glyphs
    one by one: \r\n\r\n1. First, the glyph <code>[</code> is \"current\". The lookup
    is searched for the best match, and finds none. \r\n\r\n2. Then, the first glyph
    <code>1</code> is current. The lookup is searched for the best match, and finds
    none. \r\n\r\n3. Then, the second glyph <code>1</code> is current. The lookup
    is searched for the best match, and finds the match in the rule <code>sub bracketleft
    one one' bracketright by A;</code>, so it executes it. The current glyph is substituted
    by <code>A</code>. \r\n\r\n4. Finally, the glyph <code>]</code> is current, and
    no match is found. \r\n\r\nSo the output run is <code>[1A]</code>. \r\n\r\nThe
    code\r\n\r\n<code>> feature calt {\r\n> lookup alpha {\r\n> sub bracketleft one
    one' bracketright by A;\r\n> } alpha;\r\n> sub one' A by A;\r\n> } calt;</code>\r\n\r\ndefines
    two lookups, so it's equivalent to\r\n\r\n<code>feature calt {\r\nlookup alpha
    {\r\nsub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;\r\n} alpha;\r\nlookup beta {
    \r\nsub one' A by A;\r\n} beta;\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nYou have the text run
    <code>[11]</code>. \r\n\r\nFirst the lookup <code>alpha</code> is executed, and
    after skipping the first two glyphs, the second <code>1</code> gets a match for
    the rule <code>sub bracketleft one one' bracketright by A;</code>, so it's executed.
    At the end of the lookup execution, the output run is <code>[1A]</code>. \r\n\r\nThen
    the lookup <code>beta</code> is executed on the <strong>output run</strong> of
    the previous lookup, i.e. on the glyph run <code>[1A]</code>. After skipping the
    glyph <code>[</code>, the glyph <code>1</code> hits a match for the rule <code>sub
    one' A by A;</code>, so the rule is executed, and the glyph gets substituted by
    <code>A</code>. So the final output run is <code>[AA]</code>. \r\n\r\nVery simple
    and logical. But only if you remember that the <code>lookup</code> statement in
    the AFDKO syntax is always implied if it is not defined. In fact, I recommend
    using it explicitly, especially in contextual substitutions, to keep track what's
    going on. \r\n\r\nIt's kind of similar to our previous discussion about languagesystems,
    when I recommended to always spell out <code>script latn</code>, <code>language
    dflt</code> and <code>include_dflt</code> in feature definitions that define different
    behaviors for different languagesystems, rather than relying on the implied use
    of those statements. \r\n\r\nThe general rule is: the implicit definitions are
    useful for simple situations, when you mean to say \"all languagesystems\" (in
    case of languagesystems) or \"one lookup\" (in case of lookup definitions within
    feature definitions). But mixing explicit and implicit definitions is a road to
    hell when it comes to debugging, so it's always better to spell everything out
    explicitly if your code becomes more complex. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-01 01:07:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "To answer your original question: \r\n\r\nIn AFDKO 1.6 (and 2.5) syntax,
    which works in FLS5, you can write: \r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01a
    { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01a; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss02
    { \r\nlookup ss02b { \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02b; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt { \r\nlookup ss01a; \r\nlookup ss02b;\r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nbut you cannot
    write\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01a; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss02 { \r\nlookup ss02b;\r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature salt { \r\nlookup
    ss01a { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01a; \r\nlookup ss02b { \r\nsub b by b.ss02;
    \r\n} ss02b; \r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\ni.e. at the first occurance of a lookup,
    you need to <strong>define and use it</strong>, and in later occurances, you can
    just <strong>use</strong> it by referring to it by its name. But you cannot just
    \"use\" a lookup before defining it. \r\n\r\nIn AFDKO 2.5 syntax (but not in 1.6),
    which will work in FOG5 and FLS6 but not in FLS5, you can also write: \r\n\r\n<code>lookup
    ss01a { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01a;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>lookup ss02b { \r\nsub
    b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02b;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01a;
    \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss02 { \r\nlookup ss02b;\r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt { \r\nlookup ss01a; \r\nlookup ss02b;\r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nso you \"just
    define\" the lookups first \u2014 outside of any feature definitions \u2014, and
    then you \"just use\" them within the feature definitions. Using this form, you
    don't have to worry about the ordering of your feature definitions \u2014 because
    the <strong>ordering of the lookups</strong> is always the only thing that matters.
    \r\n\r\nIn the AFDKO 1.6 syntax, the ordering of lookups was implied by the ordering
    of the feature definitions, but in some cases it was impractical: imagine that
    you have three lookups: <code>alpha</code>, <code>beta</code> and <code>gamma</code>,
    and that the lookups <code>alpha</code> and <code>gamma</code> are associated
    with the <code>smcp</code> feature, while the lookup <code>beta</code> is associated
    with the <code>ss01</code> feature. When only <code>smcp</code> is applied, then
    the lookups <code>alpha</code> and <code>gamma</code> should be executed, when
    only <code>ss01</code> is applied, then the lookup <code>beta</code> should be
    executed, but if both features are applied at the same time, the lookups should
    be executed in the order <code>alpha</code> (that is associated with the <code>smcp</code>
    feature), then <code>beta</code> (that is associated with the <code>ss01</code>
    feature), and then <code>gamma</code> (that is associated with the <code>smcp</code>
    feature). With the AFDKO 1.6 syntax, where you can only define lookups inside
    of feature definitions, it was impossible to order the feature definitions in
    such a way that could achieve such a goal. This is why I asked Adobe to allow
    lookup definitions to be written outside of feature definitions in AFDKO 2, and
    they so did \u2014 which is handy. "
  created: '2010-07-01 01:21:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "If you're paying close attention, you might ask why I wrote\r\n\r\n<code>#
    Variant 1</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01a { \r\nsub a by a.ss01;
    \r\n} ss01a; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss02 { \r\nlookup ss02b {
    \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02b; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature salt
    { \r\nlookup ss01a; \r\nlookup ss02b;\r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nwhen I could have
    just written: \r\n\r\n<code># Variant 2</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature ss01 { \r\nlookup
    ss01a { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01a; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss02 { \r\nlookup ss02b { \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02b; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nwhich
    would be equivalent to\r\n\r\n<code># Variant 2 explicit</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss01 { \r\nlookup ss01a { \r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\n} ss01a; \r\n} ss01;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    ss02 { \r\nlookup ss02b { \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} ss02b; \r\n} ss02;</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    salt { \r\nlookup saltab {\r\nsub a by a.ss01; \r\nsub b by b.ss02; \r\n} saltab;
    \r\n} salt;</code>\r\n\r\nIn other words: why did I choose to use two lookups
    in <code>salt</code> (in Variant 1), when the output run of the first lookup is
    not related to the input run of the second lookup. Indeed, I could have used Variant
    2. \r\n\r\nBasically, Variant 1 means that I save a little bit of space in the
    font (because I only define two lookups instead of three), but it means that I
    lose a tiny bit of performance, because the <code>salt</code> feature executes
    two lookups one after another, rather than just one. On the other hand, Variant
    2 menas that I speed up the performance a tiny bit, but I lose a few bytes of
    space in the font size. \r\n\r\nThe differences are so minute that I wouldn't
    worry. It's just a matter of code optimization vs. code brevity. If I want code
    that is simpler to read and edit, I choose Variant 1. If I want perfect speed
    optimization, I choose Variant 2. \r\n\r\nHope this helps,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-01 01:29:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Arno, \r\n\r\nI should bill you for 1 hour of work now :)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-07-01 01:31:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I guess I\u2019m the one you should bill :p"
  created: '2010-07-01 03:51:16'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Thank you, Adam! I want to avoid questions, that you (or anybody else) have
    not already answered. So I need a bit time for translating your text to German,
    understanding and checking, whether your explanations are satisfying explanations
    for the whole behavior of the code with regard to the number and the content of
    lookups. (There is something in the behavior of the lookups in comparison to to
    the absence of explicit lookups), which is still enigmatic for me. But I want
    to try making out, whether I can enlighten that by myself first.\r\n\r\nWith regard
    to the need, to define a lookup, before it is called: That is clear. But in case
    of my code it was defined (and implicit called) in the feature, but could not
    be explicit called one more time. But Maybe I can also enlighten that or you have
    explained it and I did not see it."
  created: '2010-07-01 15:40:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nWell, the principle seems to be indeed simple, but it can be
    hard, not to loose the overview. In case of the lookups \"Index 1\" and \"Index
    2\" from <strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/3_Features%20%5Bcalt%5D%20%5Bbased%20on%201%5D.fea_.txt\">the
    calt feature</a>,</strong> that I have coded for Frode, the comprehension was
    much harder. I really had to comprehend step by step, why the one and only rule
    of lookup Index 2 cannot be put into the end of lookup Index 1, although the last
    rule of lookup Index 1 can be put in the begin of lookup Index 2.\r\n\r\n(Notice
    to myself: Check, if only lines can be commented in code [with the number sign]
    or also whole blocks with begin and end markers.)\r\n\r\nI think, that I meanwhile
    understand the very most of your explanations and extra information except from
    the problem, about which I was talking in the second paragraph of my previous
    message.\r\n\r\nThe first call of the lookup beta is the definition of the lookup
    beta and it cannot be called more than one time with the same languagesystem statement.\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    calt {\r\nlookup beta { #Definition of lookup beta AND call of lookup beta.\r\nsub
    one' A by A;\r\n} beta;\r\nlookup beta; #unsuccessful call of lookup beta, that
    was defined above.\r\n} calt;</code>\r\n\r\nThe substitution is not well chosen,
    but that is unimportant in this context. There are cases, in which it would be
    useful to call a lookup a second time in the same feature and under the same languagesystem
    statement without defining it a second time. Not only with regard to the comprehension
    of the own code, but probably also with regard to the file size."
  created: '2010-07-01 22:23:22'
date: '2010-06-29 18:33:29'
node_type: forum
title: Questions regarding to lookups

---
