---
author:
  name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
  picture: 116286
body: "At the urging of my dear friend and colleague Israel Seldowitz, I wish to share
  with the Typophile Hebrew group some news about Mahzor Lev Shalem, the new High
  Holidays Mahzor I designed and produced for the Rabbinical Assembly. It's a work
  of 944 pages, measuring 6.5\" (16.5cm) x 9.1875\" (28.34cm). The Hebrew type, inspired
  by Henri Friedlaender's Hadassah, was made by me and Israel. \r\n\r\nYou might be
  interested in reading this:\r\nhttp://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/the-rabbi-of-book-design-an-interview-with-scott-martin-kosofsky\r\n\r\nYou
  can see a sample of the mahzor here:\r\nhttp://www.rabbinicalassembly.org/Mahzor.KolNidrei.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
  first printing of 130,000 sold out before all the books were off the bindery line.
  A second printing of another 50,000 copies, which contains a number of small corrections,
  is now underway.\r\n\r\nAll the best,\r\nScott\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Wow. With such complexity and multiple demands you are able to achieve a
    clean and easy-to-grasp page. Deeply impressive work. You did the Mishkan T'filah
    for the Reform movement also?\r\n\r\nThe I find the top terminal on the lamed
    a little distracting, but I need to see it all in print, which I haven't yet.
    \r\n\r\nI would be interested in your take on bilingual text with Hebrew on the
    left (as in the Koren siddur) vs on the right, as you have here. What guided your
    decisions on this?  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-06-29 19:40:54'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Thank you, William. The decision to place the Hebrew on the left was made
    largely out of Conservative tradition. At one point, I tried it the other way,
    but given that the annotations surrounding the Hebrew text were often extensive,
    the right-hand position was clearly better. What one might do in the abstract
    is often quite different from managing a real-life situation--especially so with
    glossed texts that are laid out Talmudically. Though Hebrew has pride of place,
    with a heavier weight than any of the Latins, it is a book dominated by the Latin
    alphabet. It is, after all, an American book made for liberal-leaning congregations.
    \r\n\r\nA far more controversial decision was the placement of the transliterated
    passages on the left, with the English, rather than near the Hebrew passages in
    question. The prevailing thought there (I was in the outvoted minority) was to
    allow those who wished to avail themselves of a purely Hebrew prayer experience
    the freedom to do so without interruption. Whether or not you think that makes
    sense, placing the transliterations on the right, with the Hebrew, would have
    cut down on the space for the annotations, which are a hallmark of Conservative
    intellectual life. There is a great deal going on in this book, and to keep it
    clear and easy to follow at all times requires decisions that one might well reconsider
    for more simple publications.\r\n\r\nI did NOT work on Mishkan T'filah, but I
    am working with the CCAR, the Reform rabbinical organization, on a prayerbook
    for mourners at home and, soon, their new Mahzor. Israel Seldowitz and I are well
    into a new typeface for it, this one based on Ismar David's work.\r\n\r\nFunny
    you mention the lamed. II find it quite a bit less distracting than Friedlaender's
    design, with its little top flag, but it's good to know your opinion. Perhaps
    we'll change it in some future version. "
  created: '2010-06-29 21:55:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes, I can see that the all the commentary put strong constraints on what
    you could do. I don't have a strong feeling that one way of mirroring is better
    than the other\u2014probably it depends on other factors.  \r\n\r\nI see you have
    a special character for the kamatz katan, but no special character for the schva
    na\u2014which your friend Israel has discussed endlessly here :)  Probably that
    was a decision of the editors, right?\r\n\r\nI also like the design of Mishkan
    T'filah, as it was such an improvement over Gates of Prayer. But this is still
    better. I love your sensitive use of the red, which really has helped you pull
    off the impossible of making all this into a coherent, readable structure, which
    is beautiful to boot.  \r\n\r\nOne more question, a printing question. The bright
    red in the PDF is a traditional printing color, but I see most second color reds
    now are almost always deeper, like a brick red of some sort. I thought that this
    was because the bright red would be too transparent and weak in offset printing,
    as opposed to the old classic letter press. \r\n\r\nDoes the published version
    use the same red? Any advice on choosing reds? I am seeing JPS tomorrow about
    my new guide to Pirke Avot, which uses a red also, so any insight is most welcome!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-29 22:25:30'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Thanks for all the kind words. The kamatz katan had been a feature of Conservative
    siddurim for some time (often as a patach with a dot underneath--as it appears
    in the Aleppo and Leningrad Codices), but the sh'va na and sh'va nach had never
    made the cut. One thing I advocated for (at Israel's urging) that made it in was
    the patach g'nuvah, the patach at the right side of the letter. I suspect some
    people will think it's a mistake, until they see it recur a number of times.\r\n\r\nThe
    red in the file is PMS 1805, but the red we printed was a special mix, made to
    match the endleaf color, Ecological Fibers' Crimson in the Rainbow series. It
    worked well in the first printing, though in the second, now just off press, I
    asked that they stiffen it a bit. The paper, which is quite nice at 28# (42gsm)
    weight, has good holdout and opacity, so it can take a solid hit. \r\n\r\nGood
    luck with the Pirkei Avot!"
  created: '2010-06-30 03:54:45'
- author:
    name: tevih
  body: "Hi Scott!\r\n\r\nNow that you're posting here, I'm looking a little closer
    than when I first saw the AIGA article. The lamed doesn't bother me in the slightest,
    but I'm probably just very used to seeing it so many different ways. I think adding
    the red was a bold decision which pays off, from a design perspective. I'm surprised
    that the RA didn't balk at the extra color!\r\n\r\nOn page 210 compared to 211,
    I'm wondering why you chose to make the right annotation columns such different
    widths?\r\n\r\nregards,\r\n\r\nTevi"
  created: '2010-07-12 18:57:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> which contains a number of small corrections, is now underway.\r\n\r\nstuff
    like that:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample1_5064.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample2_3473.png]\r\n(grammar
    error -- the shin; )\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample3_4964.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    ...(often as a patach with a dot underneath--as it appears in the Aleppo and Leningrad
    Codices)\r\n\r\nWho told you that fairy tale story (patach with a dot underneath
    = kamats katan in A, L)? "
  created: '2010-07-26 20:44:32'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "To Tevi: The commentary on page 210 begins with a continuation of the commentary
    on 209, which had to be set in a slightly narrower column to accommodate the Hebrew,
    so I decided to keep it narrow on 210, returning to full width on on 211. It was
    going to create a dissonance one way or the other, so I chose to keep it consistent
    with something. These are lose-lose situations in which one can only try to rationalize
    the lesser of two evils.\r\n\r\nTo David Hamuel: Yes, like those--precisely!!
    \r\nAbout the kamatz in the Leningrad: What I meant to say was that, in some of
    its earlier publications, the Rabbinical Assembly used a patach with a dot underneath
    to denote the kamatz katan and the standard \"T\" form for the normal kamatz.
    The patach-underdot was the form of the NORMAL kamatz in the Leningrad and Aleppo.
    This is not a bubbe-meyse; my evidence for the Leningrad is the full facsimile
    published by Eerdmans/Brill, a copy of which I own. The Aleppo can be seen online:
    http://www.aleppocodex.org/ --look and see for yourself. There are places in both
    codices where the two elements run together, and others that appear to be more
    of a vertical line than a dot (runny ink), but it's perfectly clear to see that
    this two-part form of the kamatz was the manner of the time, at least with this
    scribe. I can't claim any special khokhma on the subject beyond my observations,
    which, at the end of the day, is all that matters to me.\r\n\r\nUpdate on the
    new David font: I started all over again to make something new. It retains a four
    or five things from David that will be recognizable, but overall it's moved to
    an all new place. The first David I made with Israel will be used in the home
    mourner's siddur, but probably never again. The weights of the new font (I'm making
    three) bear no relation at all to Ismar's eponymous font. I think I may call it
    Sh'lomo--Son of David. It's farther from David than the Milon font is from Hadassah.
    I may post it when it's ready, though I am not a blogger by habit.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nScott"
  created: '2010-07-28 19:33:26'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Scott, \r\n\r\nAbout the Kamats katan see my last post: http://typophile.com/node/72428\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,
    great work/design."
  created: '2010-07-28 19:47:47'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "As I mentioned in my posting of 28 July, what began as a new version of Ismar
    David's ubiquitous font morphed into something new, a font I'm calling Shlomo.
    It contains some quotations from David, but is generally simpler in form. Though
    the attached images include a very large size, keep in mind that it's intended
    for text. I'm developing it for the Reform religious community, in which fluent
    Hebrew readers are in the minority. There will be a bold weight beside the regular
    and medium (for small text) shown here, but I haven't gotten to it yet. The encoding
    of the nikkud (there will be taamim, too) hasn't begun, so what's here has been
    \"hand composed,\" awaiting my last adjustments to the glyphs and their sidebearings.
    There's no kerning table yet, either; these samples driven completely by the sidebearings,
    which, for Hebrew with diacriticals, have to be considered very carefully.\r\n\r\nI'd
    be happy to hear your thoughts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nScott[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoIII_6382.beta3-1.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoIII_3824.beta3-2.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoIII_6569.beta3-3.jpg]"
  created: '2010-08-09 03:29:34'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Here's how the font has progressed. The stems have been regularized and many
    of of the characters have been revised, some quite significantly. There's much
    work to be done, finishing the spacing work and encoding the positions of all
    the diacriticals, but I can't imagine that the glyphs will change greatly. After
    about 25 passes, I think this is it. A bold and light will be added, and it's
    likely that I'll add a titling version, incorporating some of the more decorative
    details that were abandoned after the first version. My goal has been clarity
    and simplicity, an easy-reading type that's well-suited to less advanced readers.
    Beside the nikkud, there will be a full battery of taamim. \r\n\r\nA number of
    colleagues offered very helpful critiques: Lance Hidy, Misha Beletsky, Ed Feld,
    Howard Gralla, David Sarna, David Stein, and, of course, Israel Seldowitz, my
    partner in crime. I thank all of them!\r\n\r\nBy the way, I did this work in the
    new Fontographer 5, which feels as if a good old friend has emerged healthy from
    years in rehab.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nScott[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoV_5253.beta2-1.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoV_6392.beta2-2.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoV_4565.beta2-3.jpg]"
  created: '2010-08-13 14:32:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just got back from vacation, and am catching up. I've never designed a Hebrew
    font, so the following may just my inexperience speaking. But since you asked...\r\n\r\nI
    like a lot the way the terminals are handled. To my eyes they are nicer than those
    of David, which is a fine font, but somehow looks a bit clunky and dated to me.
    I particularly like the lamed in Shlomo. \r\n\r\nHowever, to me there are a number
    of problems with the characters. One problem is that I think the rhythm is disturbed
    by the extra width of the chet and tav compared to the hey. I have just opened
    some of the most popular Hebrew fonts and compared them to your current version
    of Shlomo: Narkis Tam, Narkism, Frank-Reuhl, Hadasa, and David. Many have the
    chet *slightly* wider than the hey, which makes sense in equalizing the white
    space within the two characters, as the hey has the white gap on the left that
    the chet doesn't. But visually yours seems to go too far to me in being too wide.
    Also the tav isn't normally quite as wide as chet internally, as it has that squiggly
    leg on the left, which visually opens it up inside a bit.\r\n\r\nI would say that
    the mem sofit is a bit too wide also compared to the mem, though there it's easier
    to get away with, as it comes at the end of words and you don't get so much of
    a problematic \"accordion\" effect, which to me happens with the chet and tav.
    Some greater width of the mem sofit is justified by the white gap in the regular
    mem, but again not quite that much. David has a pretty wide mem sofit also, but
    I think it goes a bit too far also. In some of the others the mem sofit is even
    narrower than the mem.  \r\n\r\nTo me there is something disturbing and not good
    looking about the top of the regular mem. In all of those other fonts, the left
    side of the arch in the mem thins going into the stem. Yours doesn't and that's
    part of the problem. The curve also to me looks too symmetrical and weak, but
    to tell you the truth I'm not that crazy about David's mem either, which I can
    see influenced you here--though David does have thinning where the stem joins.
    \r\n\r\nThe samech also looks to me uncomfortably symmetrical. In all of those
    other fonts, including David, the left stroke is less curved than the right, and
    to me looks more \"right\". \r\n\r\nFinally, to me the shin should have less white
    space to the left of the middle stroke, and more to the right. This is true in
    all of the fonts I mentioned. Especially relevant is Narkis Tam, as you have adopted
    the characteristic Narkis shape with the smoothly rounded bottom of the shin.
    He joins the middle branch a lot higher on the left, which makes the counter on
    the left smaller than on the right.\r\n\r\n(We have, alas, just lost Tzvi Narkis,
    designer of Narkis Tam and Narkisim and other great fonts.)  \r\n\r\nA lot of
    this critique on issues of shape relate to the sense of motion to the left in
    Hebrew. The nature of the conventional asymmetries in these characters contribute
    to that motion to the left. (I would also increase the asymmetry of the aleph
    for that reason, but that is just personal preferance; I wouldn't say that the
    current shape is a problem.) The other thing is about visually even color and
    rhythm, which I am admittedly a fanatic about, as I think that this contributes
    to readability.    "
  created: '2010-08-15 19:11:50'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "William, thanks for your comments. I found many of them quite helpful. Here
    are the latest versions, which now include a semi-light and a bold. You'll note
    that several characters have been redesigned, others changed in various small
    ways. I design type for text, so I'm loath to show large letters as I did here.
    As such, I'm far more concerned with sidebearings and fit than I am with the smallest
    details of character design. In Hebrew, especially when nikkud and taamim will
    be deployed, letter fit is a matter of life and death. You don't have the same
    options of using kerning tables to fix things; it all has to happen in the sidebearings.
    That can be quite challenging, especially when narrow letters have to accommodate
    an elaborate apparatus of diacriticals.\r\n\r\nThe JPEG renderings of the text
    sizes looks horrible here and give a poor impression of the stroke details and
    weights. I think I won't post pictures of type again. If anyone is interested
    in seeing the fonts, email me and I'll send a PDF that can be printed.\r\n\r\nIn
    the meanwhile, I wish everyone Shanah Tovah. May you all be inscribed in the best
    books.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVI_5143.beta4-1.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVI_4625.beta4-2.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVI_4923.beta4-3.jpg]"
  created: '2010-09-06 04:11:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Scott, I'm glad it was helpful. I do think the new version is quite improved.
    You write \"You don't have the same options of using kerning tables to fix things;
    it all has to happen in the sidebearings.\" I don't think that's correct. I just
    opened Hadasa MFO (Mastertype Open Type) in Font Lab and it contains an open type
    kerning table. Also note that if you are having problems with the side bearings
    it could be that the width or design of the glyph needs modification, as this
    affects how the sidebearings work.\r\n\r\nShana Tova to you as well, a joyful
    and productive year! "
  created: '2010-09-06 18:19:44'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "I don't about Hebrew, but you can set OpenType kerning pairs for Arabic,
    it just has to set in an awkward way.\r\n\r\nIn LTR scripts, you kern glyphs by
    changing the right side bearing of the left glyph. However for RTL scripts, because
    layout engines still layout glyphs from the left to right, you have to change
    the left side bearing of the glyph on the right (thus making them closer) <strong>and</strong>
    the glyph on the left to avoid having gap after the kerned pair."
  created: '2010-09-06 20:15:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Khaled, doesn't Adobe InDesign ME compose text from right to left natively?
    And the procedure you mention, is that necessary in Font Lab? I haven't done this
    stuff, but I know FontLab does right-to-left in displays. And the open type \"kern
    table\" for Hadasa MFO looks similar to me as in Latin fonts. \r\n\r\nPerhaps
    if John Hudson looks at clarify this for us, as he has done both Arabic and Hebrew
    fonts.  "
  created: '2010-09-06 20:30:35'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: I was referring to how the glyphs are laid out together, when setting a RTL
    segment of text it gets reordered first then OpenType layout applied, so it is
    treated more or less as LTR segments by the OpenType engine, so the kerning need
    to be set visually not logically. Old 'kern' table, as compared to OpenType 'kern'
    feature, is applied before reordering the text, so it does not suffer from this
    complication (but you can't use it to kern any un-encoded glyph, so it can be
    largely useless).
  created: '2010-09-07 02:28:48'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: After a bit of googling, I found this [[http://forum.fontlab.com/opentype-layout-feature-development/screwed-arabic-gposkerning-in-indesign-me-cs3-t349.0.html;msg1080#msg1080|comment]]
    (John Hudson?), which describes the issue with more details.
  created: '2010-09-07 02:40:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Khaled, yes that''s John Hudson. He''s talking about GPOS positioning. I
    think GPOS positioning, flat kerning, and open type kerning tables are three different
    things, but I don''t really understand it.  '
  created: '2010-09-07 03:08:34'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: OpenType kerning is a form of GPOS positioning, lets forget about flat (TrueType)
    kerning, they should have killed it long ago.
  created: '2010-09-07 03:26:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Khaled: <em>...you have to change the left side bearing of the glyph on the
    right (thus making them closer) and the glyph on the left to avoid having gap
    after the kerned pair.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm. I think I see how that would work, but
    that's not how I do it.\r\n\r\nI implement RTL kerning as a width <em>and equivalent
    x position adjustment</em> to the first glyph in the pair. This is how it looks
    in VOLT:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gposrtlkern_3699.png]"
  created: '2010-09-07 04:02:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, how does what you are doing in volt relate to what I see in the open
    type kerning feature of Hadasa MFO? \r\n\r\nI have only worked in Metrics Machine,
    so a little overview would be helpful. \r\n\r\nFor example, could I do something
    like the kerning table in Hadasa MFO with FontLab, or would I need VOLT?\r\n\r\nHere
    is a sample of the code in the kerning feature in Hadasa MFO (without the color):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hadasa_kern_feature_6719.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-07 04:47:29'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@ John\r\n\r\nI checked my code, indeed this is how I actually do it, but
    since I wanted to use kerning classes, I just make kerning classes as if it were
    a LTR kerning, then a script I wrote converts the classes to kerning pairs with
    proper adjustment prior to font generation. It took me a while to get the kerning
    right, I tested so many approaches and, apparently, I'm still confused which one
    worked for me (so many RTL kerning bugs in applications, too)."
  created: '2010-09-07 11:28:16'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Thank you, all. I believe I may have misstated my case. I do deploy kerning
    pairs in this font and in other Hebrew fonts I've made. What I meant to say, or
    at least emphasize, was that in Hebrew with diacriticals, kerning pairs have limited
    usefulness, as the context of intervening nikkud and taamim have to be taken into
    account, especially so with narrow glyphs, such as yod and vav. That being the
    case, I strive to be utterly judicious and disciplined setting the sidebearings
    to work in most every circumstance. This is what I learned to do many years ago
    casting metal type. Without that decade of experience working in metal, I don't
    know that I would really understand the discipline of typefitting. I should add,
    too, that were this font intended only for Modern Hebrew, I would have fit it
    somewhat differently, likely a bit tighter.\r\n\r\nWhile I'm here, may I ask your
    opinion of the tsadi and tsadi sofit? Are they beyond the pale? Do you think the
    aleph should have the same sort of upper member?\r\n\r\nAgain, Shanah Tovah (to
    my Christian and Muslim colleagues, too--everyone likes a New Year),\r\n\r\nScott\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-07 18:12:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Ah, I understand now. In latin fonts as well, getting the sidebearings correct
    is critical, before any kerning. The right arm of the tzadi doesn''t bother me,
    but if you haven''t already I would ask Israelis who are used to reading a lot
    of different Hebrew fonts. You might try rotating the arm a bit counter-clockwise,
    to open the "v" more, to see whether that hurts or helps, if you haven''t already.
    I think the bottom right of the tzadi is too heavy compared to the other letters,
    The aleph can work either way, so its just what you like, and making it work...  '
  created: '2010-09-07 20:44:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> While I'm here, may I ask your opinion of the tsadi and tsadi sofit?...\r\n\r\n\r\nadd
    a leaf (or two) and you'll have a green font. Shanah Tovah. "
  created: '2010-09-08 01:59:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bill, I believe there is some way to define RTL kerning correctly in AFDKO
    syntax as used in FontLab etc.. I only use VOLT for OTL work so don't know for
    sure how it works in AFKDO syntax, but it might be as simple as including that
    'RightToLeft' statement in the code. It was Eric Muller at Adobe who first alerted
    me to the problem of applying GPOS pair adjustment values to the 2nd glyph, so
    I'm certain that they made AFDKO in a way that would compile kerning for RTL scripts
    with the appropriate dx and width adjustments.
  created: '2010-09-09 20:02:49'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hi Scott. I'm sorry I can't comment on the letters for my lack of familiarity
    with Hebrew, but it looks lively and with many qualities\u2026 :)\r\nIt goes so
    nicely with Magma (is that Magma, isn't it?), although your stems look a little
    more flared.\r\n\r\nAnd, of course, the Mahzor is great. It looks wonderful; I'd
    like to have a Bible set like that in Italy. The more recent ones are embarassing,
    and the new lectionary of the CEI has an edition set in Erik Spiekermann's Officina
    (\u2026) Ugh! :-/"
  created: '2010-09-09 20:37:10'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Scott, I enjoy looking at this font. Crisp!\r\n\r\nI notice that the wide
    letters are only slightly wider.\r\nHow did you decide how wide they should be?
    \ Also I can understand\r\nmanually widening the letters in calligraphy but how
    are they used\r\nin the digital age?\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-12 03:10:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In my view, Scott's introduction of Shlomo is a real cause for celebration.\r\n\r\nAnew
    font design in Hebrew does not occur every day, or even in ones lifetime.\r\n\r\nThe
    design is fresh. In time, we will see that this design is both versatile for small
    texts, and for large displays."
  created: '2010-09-28 01:28:02'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Thank you all, for your helpful comments. I've made a considerable number
    of changes to Shlomo since I last posted--starting with the alef. As with all
    text types that aspire to usefulness, I'm trying to make it disappear, so most
    of the eccentricities have been jettisoned. David did a good job of embarrassing
    me out of the tsadi sofit (and with it, the tsadi). Did I go too far? Maybe one
    more pass and I'll call it finished. \r\n\r\nMichael, your question about the
    wide final forms is a good one. As you know, one cannot break words in Hebrew,
    so the wide final letters were adopted for justification. Some surviving early
    fonts have final letters of two widths. Over the past century, they fell out of
    favor, as mechanical typesetting systems took over-- Monotype, linecasters, film,
    then digital--and the wide letters were no longer available. I made a set for
    Milon, the font I made (with Israel Seldowitz) for Mahzor Lev Shalem. When I showed
    samples, everyone said \"no way,\" for the reason that too many people would be
    unfamiliar with them. The only reasonable solution, then, was setting the type
    unjustified. In this font, I'm hoping to squeak by with a new strategy, making
    wide letters that aren't too wide as to be confusing, but wide enough to prevent
    holes in the lines. Chances are I'll never use them! \r\n\r\nPiccic, that is,
    indeed, Magma--Sumner's best work, in my opinion. I've never used the lowercase,
    just the caps.  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVII_4201.beta2-2.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVII_5904.beta2-9.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVII_4426.beta2-8.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-11 02:06:04'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Sorry, I posted too soon. I took advantage of the holiday to make some further
    revisions, especially to the aleph, tsadi, and tsadi sofit. I hope you like it.
    I look forward to your remarks.\r\n\r\nScott [img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVII_4756.beta3-2.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhilidorShlomoVII_6555.beta3-9.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-11 20:55:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "At first, I thought the chet was too heavy, ie the strokes were too thick
    in comparison to other letters. Plus, I originally thought that the chet and hay
    were too wide.\r\n\r\nBut, in reviewing the small text above, Scott-Martin has
    done something brilliant. The wider width compensates from the thickness of the
    strokes. As it is said in graphic art talk, there is great color balance of the
    chet and hay, because the whites spaces between the right and left vertical strokes
    balance their stroke widths."
  created: '2010-10-13 16:48:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, I am inclined to agree with your original reservation that the hay
    and chet are too wide. I think this is quite improved from the first post. I still
    love the terminals, but still have questions about the widths. I guess I would
    check how they \"read\" without nikkud. The rhythm of the design might be easier
    to see that way, and any problems. \r\n\r\nBut at this point it is getting to
    the point where basically it's a matter of Scott, the designer, deciding how he
    wants his face to look. "
  created: '2010-10-13 22:47:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nYou are very perceptive and perceptive of subtleties, but I
    beg to differ, and choose to defend's Scott-Martin's poetic license and determinations.\r\n\r\nThere
    are not as the Israeli slogan, \"taam v'reach etc.\" - ie his personal artistic
    leanings, and supra-rational (lit. \"taste and smell can not be debated\").\r\n\r\nRather,
    there is a reason to his madness, not related to nikud placement or visual design
    rhythm.\r\n\r\nA wider width there promotes better content comprehension, and
    prevents the confusing between these two letters at smalled text sizes."
  created: '2010-10-13 22:58:24'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Isn't it great to have such a loyal defender? Israel, you're the best (though
    hardly impartial). Be that as it may, I'm grateful for serious criticism, so fire
    away, Bill et al. This is a font intended to be read over a long haul at religious
    services, invariably with nikkud. That it seems to have good display qualities
    makes me a little cautious. I tend to prefer fonts that have elegant forms, but
    have the more important characteristic of disappearing as you read them--the essential
    Caslon quality, as Bill knows well. Peculiarities are especially unwelcome. What
    would Mr. Updike say? Fortunately for me, he was a staunch Episcopalian . . .\r\n\r\nHere
    it is, in regular and medium weights, without nikkud. I have not yet completed
    the kerning, so what you see is fit largely through sidebearings alone.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nScott\r\n\r\nP.S.
    One thing I am trying to accomplish here is a revival of the extended forms for
    justification. Because such glyphs vanished with the advent of mechanized typesetting,
    I am aware that readers are no longer accustomed to them. So I've made them quite
    subtle, in hope that they'd blend in easily, while at the same time make for tighter
    lines and paragraphs. That Hebrew readers have become used to very poor, loose
    composition is quite unfortunate.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shlomo7_3813.5.NoNikkud.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-14 15:03:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The kerning between first the shin then ayin and first the ayin then the
    daleth needs to be slightly increased, because there is a grouping of multiple
    vertical strokes which seems too crowded among the other letter combinations.\r\n\r\nPlus
    the bottom tail on the lower left of the ayin is rather short compared to the
    ayin in many other Hebrew font designs.\r\n\r\nHmmm... it only happened in those
    combinations but not when an ayin is followed by other letters with a right vertical
    cstroke.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nScott, why are you giving me free tickets to the Rose
    Bowl..."
  created: '2010-10-14 15:13:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think there's a problem trying to look at this on screen, because in converting
    to pixels, the spacing within and between characters is slightly changed...\r\n\r\nBut
    looking at this small, without nikud, I'm wondering whether the shin is too narrow.
    I am a fanatic about even color, and I don't know if you share that. When I look
    at samples of Zvi Narkiss's fonts on p. 100 of Language Culture Type, I see an
    awesome evenness and balance. (I notice he does tricks to lighten the middle stroke
    of the shin.) I can't really give a good critique because of its being on screen,
    and my not having done a Hebrew type. \r\n\r\nA good, traditional \"proofing\"
    technique is to put every letter between every other letter. In roman type you
    have strings like this: aaabacadaeafagahaiajakalamanaoapaqarasatauavawaxayaza
    then babbbcbdbebfb ... etc through the alphabet. Of course you can do the same
    with Hebrew. Then you print it out small, and some issues pop out that wouldn't
    be so obvious otherwise.   "
  created: '2010-10-14 16:45:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: just post a big sample, high res.
  created: '2010-10-14 17:00:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'A PDF is better. '
  created: '2010-10-14 17:23:29'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Piccic, that is, indeed, Magma--Sumner's best work, in my opinion.
    I've never used the lowercase, just the caps.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, the capitals
    are beautiful, and also Munc, which uses intermediate forms (mostly uncial) could
    be nice to pair with Hebrew, which does not have a case distinction."
  created: '2010-10-26 13:00:31'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "This Shlomo TypeFace looks Distorted.\r\nmay be by americans it could pass,
    but in israel they woul'd use it even free.\r\nthe shlomo type face need alot
    of work and cristalization before at can even be called a type face.\r\nIt looks
    like a mixtur of Font DAVID + Self Chaos"
  created: '2010-10-26 13:40:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What specically can you describe, so it can be improved.\r\n\r\nIn my view,
    there are few traces of influence from David. Also, other charateristics (could
    name many) are both unique and innovative.\r\n\r\nAfter David and Narkissim broke
    through the norm of traditional Hebrew typeface designs, I believe Israeli will
    accept a modern design, such as Shlomo (the son of David).\r\n\r\nCritique is
    valid when it is constructive.\r\n\r\nI feel the final chaf must be lighten up
    a bit, for it looks too heavy compared to the other letters.\r\n\r\nI also think
    the current design of the gimel, in this and other fonts, places the left lower
    leg too low, so there is too little white space to distinguish it from the nuhn."
  created: '2010-10-26 13:56:51'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "It looks like EREV-RAV of letters.\r\nNo DNA, No clear concept, \r\nnon unified
    direction\r\nsome weird letters stick out\r\nnon clean counters.\r\nnon absolute
    shaping\r\n\r\nShlomo is not a modern design shlomo is whats call anti-design\r\nThe
    set of squer letters against the set of round letters give a fill of two typeface
    combined and do not work together"
  created: '2010-10-26 14:05:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "No, these are not specifics that can be measured and analyzed.\r\n\r\nThese
    are emotional comments. ie dislikes based on feelings.\r\n\r\nWhy is there no
    clear concept? Ask yourself, what pattern of things do I see which show inconsistency?\r\n\r\nWhere
    is there no unified direction? Point out examples.\r\n\r\nWhat sticks out?  Point
    out examples.\r\n\r\nWhere are there no clear counters?\r\n\r\nWhat is absolute
    shaping, Eli? Show me examples.\r\n\r\nWhy is this 'anti-design'?\r\n\r\nThe last
    point that you make is why I see Shlomo as becoming the next great popular Hebrew
    font. It's wide and super-legible like traditional square letters, yet attractive
    and new like modern round letters.\r\n\r\nIn my view Shlomo works very well, and
    I think that Israelis will love it, particularly for these reasons. A great new
    modern design with the traditional qualities."
  created: '2010-10-26 14:22:37'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Eli, \r\n\r\nShlomo is a work in progress, which I posted for comment. I'm
    sorry you couldn't find it in your heart to say something constructive. I make
    it a point not to comment on people's work, unless they ask, so I will not comment
    on your Netsach, recently posted. Shlomo has changed quite a bit since I posted
    it last, and I won't show it again until it's finished. I'm grateful to those
    of you who made helpful remarks.\r\n\r\nHere's a new font I'm working on with
    a friend. I won't tell you what it is--let it be a kind of Hebrew literacy test.
    I'm afraid it won't meet your standard for utter rigidity of form, Eli.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NewFontTextSample_5287.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-28 20:47:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Scott, I am sorry if you got offended from my cirtiques.\r\nIn a forum, I
    express my true opinion about the currend Issue.\r\ni allwas assume the when one
    uploads a face, he is asking for everyones opinion.\r\nSo i guess that mine wasn't
    to your liking\r\nmaybe the end result will be very much to my liking.\r\n\r\nMy
    critiques war typographical in general, ant not indetail what i have to say about
    each issue.\r\n\r\nNow regarding This new (Old) hebrew face.\r\nMasterFont has
    a font called \"LIBI\" the looks almost the same as this one.\r\nBut i like your
    alot more.\r\n\r\nI see you made i distiction betwen qamats qatan and gadol, but
    not sheva na nach. Why?\r\n3. You hav Dibbukim in some places like in the word
    \u05D5\u05D9\u05E8\u05E2.\r\nAlso in some cases the taam is too cloes to the nikkud.\r\n\r\nbut
    overall, I like this face. also the spacing\\kerning looks very good.\r\n\r\nThere
    is still work thats needs done on the overall typographic color.\r\nalso proportions
    of letters need some abjusment."
  created: '2010-10-28 21:44:39'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "LIBI? I can assure you Masterfont had nothing to do with this!  This is a
    rather close replica of the principal text type made around 1560 by Guillaume
    (II) Le B\xE9 for Christophe Plantin's Polyglot Bible. Some years ago, my friend
    Matthew Carter digitally rendered the display cut for use in Barry Moser's well-known
    Bible, where they appeared only as numbers for the Psalms. It had never been set
    up as a proper font. In this collaborative effort, we're making the display as
    well as the text. Israel Seldowitz will do the encoding after the glyph set is
    finished. The spacing you see here (sorry, it's not a very clear--I can't seem
    to upload a PDF) is sidebearings only--no kerning table. The nikkud and taamim
    were placed manually, as a demo. I'll tell Messrs. Le B\xE9 and Plantin that you
    recommend an adjustment of the proportions.\r\n\r\nThis is one of the great legacy
    types from the Golden Age, which, sadly, have been ignored in modern Jewish publishing.
    We hope it will have a long and healthy revival.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-28 23:44:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  text type made around 1560 by Guillaume...  It had never been set up as
    a proper font....\r\n\r\nthis one?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pla2_4967.png]\r\n\r\nwe
    have 10 weights."
  created: '2010-10-29 01:44:42'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Libi_5913.jpg]\r\nthis is masterfot LIBI\r\nBut
    i like yours better."
  created: '2010-10-29 01:51:19'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I'm coming in a little late to this discussion, but I have to agree with
    typograph. The font Shlomo in it's current form is all over the place. There seems
    to be no rhythm to the font and seems to be very messy. I think a Hebrew reader
    will be disturbed by it. On the other hand, Libi is much better.\r\n\r\nI'm not
    a font designer, rather a typesetter, so I can't tell you why Shlomo doesn't work,
    just that I wouldn't choose it and I find it unreadable. Sorry if that's not terribly
    helpeful \u2013 but listen to typograph \u2013 he seems to understand <em>why</em>
    it's not readable.\r\n\r\nBut from what I've seen, the problem here isn't whether
    a single letter needs to be wider or thinner or whether the kerning needs to be
    tweaked, but rather in my eyes, there seems to be a fundamental problem with the
    font. It doesn't seem to be organic. I have to say, that I find it quite hard
    to read. Sorry :-("
  created: '2010-10-29 13:37:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Eli, Raphael, are you looking at the most recent versions of Shlomo, above
    (Oct 11 and 13)? Do you think the most recent version is an improvement over the
    originally posted version? '
  created: '2010-10-29 15:57:16'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nBill,\r\n\r\nIt is not the version or the improvement, but the whole
    concept. The shin, for example, is  small/too small; the shape is too 'round'
    -- one solution: playing with the curve of the left arm (see the ayin -- the left
    arm)    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-29 16:48:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, I don't know if the round bottom on the shin is the problem, because
    Zvi Narkis brought it off successfully. Did Narkis create the round-bottomed shin?
    I also saw the shin as too narrow, above. \r\n\r\nI like your idea on the shin,
    but then it wouldn't be so consistent with the samech and tet, though more so
    with the ayin. Maybe there is a problem of consistency, as well as rhythm\u2014which
    was my main concern above ... "
  created: '2010-10-29 17:27:06'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "I promised not to show Shlomo again until it's finished, but I will say that
    many of the things you've addressed have been changed quite dramatically, including
    the shapes of the shin, tet, samekh. The proportions of letters have been adjusted,
    as well. It's been quite transformed. \r\n\r\nI don't much participate in blogs,
    nor do I attend type-centered events. I'm a designer, producer, typographer, editor,
    and sometimes author of books, not a full-time type designer by any means, though
    I've been involved with making type from well before the PostScript era. (I spent
    ten years working with metal.) I'm interested in how type performs for readers,
    not as an end in itself. A very large part of how type works depends on the skill
    of the compositor, how balance and clarity are brought to bear on the problems
    at hand. So I'm loathe to post large letters for fonts that will only be used
    small; or small letters at lo-res that inevitably look very poor. If someone can
    tell me how to post a PDF here (mine are always rejected), I'll post more.\r\n\r\nRaphael,
    your comparison of Shlomo and Libi is invidious and irrelevant; it's apples and
    oranges. If you wish to compare Libi with the Le B\xE9 that Matthew Carter and
    I are making, that's another matter. Ever since Mahzor Lev Shalem appeared, you've
    taken the opportunity to criticize my work, even if you had to stretch yourself
    into irrelevance. I find it rude, and I believe it only reflects poorly on you.
    It would have been nice to have in you a good colleague, as we work on similar
    things. I remain open to the possibility.\r\n\r\nEli, now I see what LIBI is--an
    \"interpretation\" of the larger Le B\xE9 letters. I'm afraid the vigor of the
    original, and the wonderful sweep of the master punch-cutter, are lost. I don't
    understand the spacing at all; there's no discipline to the sidebearings."
  created: '2010-10-29 18:03:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks Scott-Martin for your willingness to post and your receptivity. I
    look forward to seeing the final. \r\n\r\nThe sometimes brutal comments here are
    a problem, and I wish folks would show more restraint all around."
  created: '2010-10-29 19:02:01'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> David, I don't know if the round bottom on the shin is the
    problem, because Zvi Narkis brought it off successfully...\r\n\r\nLet's see: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shinletter_4883.png]\r\n\r\nBut
    I think that I'm done with this thread; the \"being accused of heresy\" is not
    for us; we don't have time for that stuff. "
  created: '2010-10-29 20:51:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, the asymmetry of Narkis' shin is a good point. Also I like the way
    he lightened the interior by not connecting the middle stroke. I don't get what
    you are referring to by \"heresy\" in this thread, but maybe I'd better let it
    lay.  \r\n\r\nScott-Martin, I haven't posted a PDF recently, but I know that at
    one time you could only attach it to the first post here, for some reason. Try
    that. \r\n\r\nAlso recently I figured out that if something is posted fairly big,
    but enough for multiple words and lines, you can see pretty well the effect small
    by slowly moving back from the screen.  "
  created: '2010-10-29 22:32:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n> I don't get what you are referring to by \"heresy\" in this
    thread...\r\n\r\nThe whole concept (again :)) -- you're rude, criticize my work,
    reflects poorly on you; 'ah, you're saying my work is all over... -- here's a
    literacy test...now you can't say anything, I'm working with my friend...\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-30 01:33:54'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Scott, Obvously we can't comment on some thing that is not shown.\r\nhowever,
    i would believe that if you changed the face so dramatically, then we are talking
    about an entierly new typeface (not the one prevously shown).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-30 17:03:08'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I'm sorry if you found my comments rude. They weren't meant to be. You posted
    a font on a typography forum. I thought the point was to comment on the typography.
    I'm a little confused. \r\n\r\nI simply stated that the font in my eyes was very
    hard to read. That's okay. People have commented on finding Koren hard to read.
    That's okay too. I think that if there is one place in the world that commenting
    on a font is okay, that is here. I really think that is okay.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    since my comments have come across negatively, I will simply ask for your forgiveness
    and refrain on commenting. The last thing I want is for my comments to be miscontrued
    as being rude.\r\n\r\nShavua Tov."
  created: '2010-10-30 17:39:22'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Rephael, there is a huge differnce between the Koren Face and Shlomo Face.\r\nKoren
    is what is. no one wants to make a better Koren a more ledgibale Koren.\r\nKoren
    is a done deal for the good and the bad.\r\n\r\nShlomo however is a font in the
    making. not just another font, but a font that they are planing to produce with
    it MACHZORIM, which is going to cost.\r\nso comment of this type face becomes
    more important.\r\n\r\nNow lets forget the fact that i have designed some hebrew
    faces in the past.\r\nthe fact is, that i am an israeli, born in Israel, and hebrew
    is my native tongue.\r\nand any israeli that has a slight understanding in hebrew
    typogrophy, will tell you the same.\r\n\r\nI have seen bad fonts before, but who
    cares, so another horrible font exists.\r\nbut planning an entier production based
    on such a font, you should listen to the comments.\r\n\r\nno one is here to be
    rude or insult anothers work.\r\nbut for now (before seeing the new shlomo) investing
    money on a production based on shlomo, is what we would call, \"PUTING YOUR MONEY
    ON THE HORNES OF A GAZELLE\""
  created: '2010-10-30 18:30:36'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Thank you. Raphael. I think you missed my point, but I am grateful for your
    apology all the same, and I accept it.\r\n\r\nEli, unless I\u2019ve missed something
    terribly important, I don\u2019t think living in Israel automatically bestows
    upon its residents the wisdom of the prophets. I would remind you that a native
    typographic culture in Israel goes back only to the 1950s. Moshe Spitzer\u2019s
    Jerusalem Typefoundry (Otiot Y\u2019rushalyim) issued its first catalogue in 1959.
    The types of Ismar David and Henri Friedlaender were cut in Europe and the United
    States. It was only with the advent of PostScript that the repertory of Hebrew
    types was able to expand to some size. Twenty+ years does not a culture make;
    it\u2019s simply a beginning, perhaps only long enough for a trend to play out.
    The vast majority of the types made in Israel appear to be intended for advertising
    or corporate image work, not for long-haul reading.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, the Hebrew
    typographic culture of the Diaspora is, for all intents and purposes, as old as
    type itself. In the West, especially in England and America, our 20th-century
    type culture was dominated by historical revivals, beginning with William Morris\u2019s
    interpretation of Jenson and most especially the program of types initiated in
    the 1920s by Stanley Morison at Monotype (I mean the Monotype that made casting
    machines, not the digital merchant foundry of today). The Arts & Crafts manner
    of printing came late to the Jewish world, achieving importance in Germany in
    the 1920s. Had it followed the West into a next step of historical revivals, it
    might have resulted in very different types dominating the scene today. But the
    time was lost\u2014stolen, really. One can only speculate about what might have
    been. But one may wonder, too, whether a repertory of historically based Hebrew
    fonts would have been compatible with Zionist ideals, which rejected as much of
    European culture as it could, Jewish or not.\r\n\r\nFor those of us of a certain
    age--I\u2019m 57--whose background is metal type (whether working with it or reading
    it during the formative years), our typographic sensibilities are governed by
    things you might not have considered: the design \u201Cethic\u201D of the counter-punch,
    the undesirability of over-regular forms, and, most importantly, the size-specific
    nature of type design. Your types, which are admirably made, suffer from a lack
    of these things; your forms are so mechanically regular that they look as if they
    came from a box of snap-on parts. Moreover, it\u2019s hard to tell what their
    optimal size might be. Please don\u2019t think for a minute that I\u2019m saying
    this in defense of Shlomo, which is not yet a defensible product. Rather, I say
    this because I think you come from a cultural perspective (I have a feeling you\u2019re
    a generation younger than I am) that\u2019s really very limited. I see that, in
    your Vilna types, you tried to regularize everything there, too; I find the affect
    monotonous. Types that look nice and neat often become quite annoying over the
    long haul. I used to say that too few designers are dedicated readers; sadly,
    the same can be said today about type designers. You\u2019d do well to look at
    (and READ) old types, from the time punches were cut by hand, and try to get a
    sense of how individual quirks of form add up to greater readability, and much
    less strain on the eyes. Bill Berkson, who\u2019s made an admirable new version
    of Caslon, understands this well. We have a heritage that\u2019s largely ignored:
    the types of the Soncinos and Foa and Bomberg, the types of the Le B\xE9s, and
    the very important types of Solomon Proops, in the 17th century.\r\n \r\nI remind
    you that we Diasporans are at least half of the world\u2019s readers of Hebrew,
    even more if one includes the small number of Christian scholars and others who
    read the language regularly. Our tradition of Hebrew reading is some 2000 years
    old, through the time when there was no conversational Hebrew. Much, though by
    no means all, of our reading is not the same as yours; it is predominantly religious
    literature\u2014Torah, siddur, Talmud, and so on. I also remind you that there
    is a kind of Hebrew reader in the Diaspora that doesn\u2019t exist in Israel:
    adults who read Hebrew haltingly, as though they were young students. This is
    a common condition in the liberal congregations for whom I have been making prayer
    books. Unlike children in Israel, who grow up surrounded by Hebrew letterforms,
    these people have no such experience. It means that differentiations of letters
    have to be pronounced in ways you would never have to consider. \r\n\r\nMy advice
    to you, Eli: Tse\u2019enah u-re\u2019enah\u2014\u201Cgo out and look!\u201D The
    world of Hebrew type did not begin in 1948. And one more thing: good manners are
    not merely chukkat hagoyim. If you\u2019re unable to cultivate them, you might
    find the gazelle\u2019s horns sticking into your behind someday.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 01:25:33'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Scott: I enjoyed reading your last post.\r\nI agree and disagree on a few
    points.\r\n\r\nI am 36 much younger than you, and believe that you have more experience
    than i in type design. however, as an israeli who lives in israel his intier life,
    has some expectations from what a hebrew letter should look like.\r\n\r\nthere
    is a huge difference between type being designed today and types designed before
    1948. generations grew up on HADASSA or FRANKRUEL Ect' so they are used to it
    allthough they might have their problems. but types being designed today don't
    have that privilege. readers out side of israel who are surrounded mainly by english
    don't have these expectations and expect to have in the hebrew letter forms qualities
    that they meat in the english forms.\r\nSo there is for certain an israeli culture,
    2 generations are enough to establish a colture. because a 20 yrold person that
    is all he knows.\r\n\r\nKoren Type is a beautiful type face, although one might
    argue abot its legibility, Koren has become Classic and thats that.\r\n\r\nOnce
    again, I have no intention of being rude or insulting your work.\r\nBut \"Tse\u2019enah
    u-re\u2019enah\" Post Shlomo on israeli design forums Like TAPUZ \"Tikshoret Chazutit\",
    ZmanDigitali Or Prog, and see how a native israeli will react. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.tapuz.co.il/tapuzforum/main/forumpage.asp?id=171\r\nwww.prog.co.il\r\nhttp://forum.zmandigitali.co.il/forum/\r\n\r\nScott,
    My comments have nothing to do with manners.\r\nI express my natural opinion on
    the type and destiny being questioned, not my opinion on the designer or person.\r\nUnlike
    Rephael, I have no history with you and i don't even know you, so be sure that
    there is no politics involved.\r\n\r\nSo there is no reason to get insulted by
    my comments."
  created: '2010-10-31 02:01:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: " > It means that differentiations of letters have to be pronounced in ways
    you would never have to consider.\r\n\r\nhuh?\r\n\r\n>...whose background is metal
    type (whether working with it or reading it during the formative years), our typographic
    \ sensibilities are governed by... and, most importantly, the size-specific nature
    of type design. \r\n\r\nA free lesson about type design from the great type designer
    Jonathan Hoefler. \r\n\r\nAt a, the 6pt S of Pierre Wafflard, from the 1819 Didot
    specimen book.\r\nAt c, a display size S from the same specimen.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JH_4625.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nJonathan
    Hoefler: \"The challenge is deciding which characteristics of these vastly different
    letters should be preserved. In this case, I liked the thicks and thins of the
    larger size, but I preferred the proportion and curvature of the smaller original
    - the serifs starting further from the baseline and cap height, the lower bowel
    jutting out further, and so on\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n(from the book by Cabarga;  the
    rest... visit his website) \r\n\r\nAnd again:\r\n> It means that differentiations
    of letters have to be pronounced in ways you would never have to consider.\r\n\r\nhuh?\r\n\r\nThe
    age of metal type is over!\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 03:47:15'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I think there is another very very important factor to realise when it comes
    to type and that is really <em>how</em> it is read. \r\n\r\nMost people reading
    this forum are reading the English language. Now let's look at the different posts.
    In some of them, there are spelling mistakes (often due to it being a foreign
    language). We don't mind them. It doesn't prevent us from reading those posts.
    Why?\r\n\r\nSometimes there are typos. Again, it doesn't bother us. \r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nNow
    let's look at how Hebrew is taught to kids to read. How to people read the Hebrew
    language? Now people from the diaspora, can you use a siddur without nikud? \r\nAnd
    why not?\r\n\r\nThe shape of the word including nikud is very important for someone
    out of Israel who might have been reading Hebrew all their life in their siddur
    three times a day and out of their Tanakh. But interestingly enough, in my experience,
    Israelis look and read Hebrew completely differently to people outside of Israel
    and what they consider to be legible or not is very very different to what people
    from outside of Israel consider to be legible.\r\n\r\nIt is true that most faces
    are designed for advertising and that most books are set in Frankruehl and it
    takes a publisher with a lot of guts to publish a book set in another face. But
    one has to think carefully about the face to typeset a siddur.\r\n\r\nWhen I was
    asked to typeset the new Singer's Prayer Book for Great Britain, we were looking
    at a number of faces. It seemed natural to try and find something close to the
    font that the original siddur had been set in. However, after trying many typefaces,
    the audience wanted the \"Artscroll font\". They had moved over to Artscroll and
    were used to it. We chose a typeface called FbHadasaNew which is a variation of
    Hadasa of course and they loved it.\r\n\r\nWhen starting to work for Koren a couple
    of years later, we were concerned that in the USA, there was a whole generation
    of people whose only interaction with the Hebrew language was in fact Hadasa (or
    a slight variation). Was Koren going to be a difficult font to get used to? Was
    it more or less legible. Israelis agree that it's more, many American's will say
    less. Why?\r\n\r\nAnother interesting anecdote. In the UK, Koren has been approached
    to make a new children's siddur. Unfortunately we have got stuck because the alef
    and resh are different from... well Hadasa. And children are taught the letters
    in rather a strange way it seems. The resh in the siddur font is a real problem
    because it looks like a vav! I was dumbstruck. Davka I thought that the resh was
    better because in the Tanakh font the resh and dalet would be very similar to
    a child's eye. No, they said. The resh and dalet in the Tanakh font are completely
    different. Go figure!\r\n\r\nAll I'm saying is that one has to be very very aware
    of the target audience. It could be that Shlomo, in the eyes of a worshiper in
    the United States is a very readable font. And perhaps, people like Eli and I
    are no longer in the position to comment on this market particularly in light
    of the comments that I've posted. \r\n\r\nThis is an interesting area of type.
    Does the background and use of the typeface influence the legibility.\r\n\r\nI'll
    finish with one final point. I always knew intuitively that to set a quantity
    of text in italics was a typographic \"no no\" because it's hard to read a large
    amount of text in italic. Yet, there was a period of time that books were set
    in italic or was this only scribes -- I don't recall. But the point is there.
    We are not <em>used</em> to seeing text in italic and therefore it's hard to read....\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 06:34:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Scott-Martin,\r\n\r\nWow!\r\n\r\nWhat feedback?\r\n\r\nThis blog is barking
    with great excitement. Are you claiming that the shin of Shlomo has a divine origin?\r\n\r\nThere
    are two qualities to Shlomo, that in my opinion, are special.\r\n\r\nLike Isamar
    David's David, Shlomo looks like a sans typeface (even though they are really
    not a pure sans), and its letter forms are wide like the classic square letters
    (Hadasa or Vilna).\r\n\r\nA wide square-like letter is very important for readability."
  created: '2010-10-31 13:05:38'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "> Are you claiming that the shin of Shlomo has a divine origin?\r\nwhy would
    the SHIN of Shlomo be of devine origin????\r\n\r\n> A wide square-like letter
    is very important for readability.\r\nI can see that you are inloved with squer
    letters, but why do you thing that this factor is important for readability???\r\n\r\nWith
    Nikud And Taamim, A would agree with you on that, because the squere letters with
    all thats happening with nikud and taamim leave more white spaces, and keeps better
    balance of posetive and negitive spaces. "
  created: '2010-10-31 13:50:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nI was joking. Scott-Martin is of divine originality. Ask his
    mom!"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:02:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>>> \r\n> A wide square-like letter is very important for readability.\r\nI
    can see that you are inloved with squer letters, but why do you thing that this
    factor is important for readability???\r\n>>>\r\n\r\nSquare-like (there is no
    square letter, though the letter form in a Torah scroll uses a 3 x 3 grid) letters,
    ie those width are close to their height, allow the eye greater time to perceive
    the letter form.\r\n\r\nLetters which are more rectangular do not.\r\n\r\nHence,
    readability is increased, but there can not be too much details.\r\n\r\nMany scribes
    have reported this. They are true professionals who not only draw letters, but
    review them every day for hours when they inspect mezuzot etc.\r\n\r\nI have heard
    repeatedly that the Romm Vilna design is most conducive to long bouts of reading/study,
    because its points are rounded off."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:10:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In the Talmud, which features Romm Vilna, nikkud and taam don't appear.\r\nYet,
    much time is spent reading the text over and over.\r\nReadability is essential."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:13:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: ">In the Talmud, which features Romm Vilna, nikkud and taam don't appear.\r\nYet,
    much time is spent reading the text over and over.\r\nReadability is essential.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\ntake
    a look at this thread\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/75773\r\n\r\n----------------------------------\r\ntodays
    vilna is mor narrowed and fits in a rectangle\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:19:13'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "the take another look into the next link.\r\nthey discuss this issue"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:21:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I reviewed that link, and the other link at that blog, which took you to
    the BBC news:\"Making ideas harder to read may make them easier to retain\".\r\n\r\nI
    very much disagree with this stupid statement.\r\n\r\nThis resembles Rav Shach
    zatzal's opposition to ArtScroll's translation of the Talmud by saying that such
    a translation takes away the challenge of deciphering the text. Hence, he was
    saying the same thing.\r\n\r\nI think that the opposite is true.\r\n\r\nIf we
    remove or reduce the barriers to comprehending, then the real learning begins.\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Akiva Eiger zatzal endorsed the Romm Vilna edition of the Talmud specifically
    because it enhanced intensive study by offering the text to appear in clearer
    sparkling typefaces.\r\n\r\nLearning is greater when reading is not hindered."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:40:55'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "maybe your right.\r\nI just pointed out the thread to your Attention."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:58:42'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Eli, this is becoming interesting. I may have been equally guilty taking
    for granted my cultural references as you have yours. What\u2019s become clear
    is that we live in two very different Hebrew worlds. In mine, Hebrew appears only
    as the language of Bible, prayer, and religious study; it seldom appears without
    nikkud, or nikkud and taamim as the case may be; and it seldom appears without
    translation in the Latin alphabet, most often accompanied by annotations, and
    transliterations. Though Hebrew may be the minority of characters on the spread
    (my books are usually conceived in spreads, not individual pages), it has pride
    of place. Please take a look at the pages from my Mahzor Lev Shalem, a link for
    which can be found in the first entry on this blog. It is precisely the kind of
    work I refer to. http://www.rabbinicalassembly.org/Mahzor.KolNidrei.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    fit of fonts, and even some glyph designs are inevitably different when one designs
    primarily for nikkud and taamim. For example, the narrow letters\u2014vav, zayin,
    yod, nun, and sometimes gimel, have to be a little wider and have broader sidebearings
    to accommodate the diacriticals without dybukkim, which, in turn, set the standards
    for the rest of the font. This precludes the kind of tight fit one would deploy
    for Modern Hebrew, or for a font used in Talmud or other classical texts that
    don\u2019t use the diacriticals.\r\n\r\nWidth issues have led to problems adapting
    some modern fonts for use with nikkud and taamim. Neither Henri Friedlaender nor
    Ismar David designed their most famous fonts with diacriticals in mind. Ismar
    drew a set of nikkud for Interype David (I believe they were for filmsetting,
    never implemented), though some of these were very strange. From what I\u2019ve
    seen produced at the Israeli typefoundries, diacriticals are an afterthought,
    when they exist at all. Nothing is done to refit the fonts to accommodate them,
    nor are size issues addressed. In the Koren Siddur, I find it disturbing and inadequate
    to see large types set from the text master. I also find it very strange to see
    the nikkud line set so far down from the baseline (as Koren had done for reasons
    of technical limitations), which makes tighter leading very difficult to achieve
    without creating high-decibel noise on the page. Why repeat what Eliyahu Koren
    felt he had to do, if there\u2019s no longer a reason to do so? It\u2019s not
    as if the design was handed down on Mount Sinai.\r\n\r\nThe typographic issues
    I face in my work are extremely elaborate, much more so than in any prayerbooks
    one would find in Israel, and even more so than in most Orthodox prayerbooks,
    such as Raphael\u2019s Koren Siddur. The Artscroll siddurim can be elaborate,
    too, but typographic refinement and easy readability is not a concern of theirs.
    David Hamuel stated the obvious in saying that metal is dead. What he neglected
    to say was that its principals are not. It\u2019s for that reason that the best
    Latin text types made today are created as multiple masters and packaged as separate
    fonts for size-specific application. Some examples include Adobe\u2019s Premier
    Pro series, many of the types from DTL, Ensched\xE9 Font Foundry, Font Bureau
    (in its newspaper types), H&FJ (such as Mercury), and a number of serious independents
    (Feliciano, Storm, et al.) One cannot make a book like Mahzor Lev Shalem without
    them. What is dead is one-size-fits-all types for text. This was just an aberration
    that existed for a short time, as technologies were in transition. For types that
    have exaggerated thicks and thins, such as Vilna, you MUST have separate size
    masters. God doesn\u2019t like lazy people.\r\n\r\nA clarification for David Hamuel:
    I used the word \u201Cpronounced\u201D in the sense of \u201Cemphasized,\u201D
    not in the sense of \u201Cvocalization.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 16:21:46'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Raphael makes some valuable observations that I hadn\u2019t read before my
    previous posting. Readability is a highly acculturated value that changes, sometimes
    dramatically, over time. Throughout the much of the 19th century and into the
    20th, American books were chiefly set in various versions of the Scotch Roman,
    a kind of type one might think of as the Anglo-American Bodoni. These were the
    first kinds of type made available for machine setting because they were considered
    the standard. A change\u2014a slow change\u2014came when the highly influential
    printer Theodore Low De Vinne (1828-1914) introduced types of similar proportions
    that reduced the contrast of thick and thin. These types eased the way for the
    \u201COldstyle Revival\u201D of the 20th century, which still dominates book typography
    here. (We Americans are very conservative about discarding embedded traditions;
    there are things that originated in England that long since vanished there, but
    remain vital here.)\r\n\r\nToday, people read Scotch and its derivatives with
    considerable discomfort, yet in the 19th century, when literacy expanded dramatically
    in this country, they were as mother\u2019s milk. Our visual culture had changed.
    Except in the Hasidic world, the once dominant Frank-Ruehl has largely disappeared,
    too, especially in the liberal communities, where Hadassah and David (in one rotten
    version or another) took its place. When Artscroll began using a version of Hadassah,
    this pretty much marked the end of the Frank-Ruehl era\u2014at least until it\u2019s
    rediscovered as hip in another generation or two. Type in the West has always
    been a revolving door, moving century by century. To the eyes of my generation
    (I was born in 1953), types of the 16th and 18th centuries look \u201Cnormal,\u201D
    whereas types of the 19th and 17th centuries present readability problems. I generalize,
    of course, but I believe my central claims are valid. Raphael, this fits with
    your remarks about the extended use of italics. I would add, though, that the
    brief vogue for long italic texts, in the 16th century, used types that were made
    by geniuses such as Arrighi and Granjon, not ordinary men. The individuality of
    the forms (Eli might shriek that they\u2019re not real fonts because they\u2019re
    not mechanically consistent) is something very difficult to duplicate with our
    modern, perfect tools. Moreover, no fonts were ever so unequivocally size specific.
    Robert Slimbach, a man of very great skill and critical eye, has been trying to
    get there for years\u2014and I am sure he will keep trying for many years to come.
    One thing\u2019s for sure: the forms don\u2019t lend themselves to good screen
    rendering, though that will change in time.\r\n\r\nThere are historical parallels
    throughout the Latin-alphabet world, and a situation that\u2019s related, yet
    quite different, in Germany, which had gone in and out of blackletter and Latin
    for some time. (Interestingly, the Germans are unusually accepting of sans serifs
    for long texts.) When I mentioned that Israel\u2019s (Eretz Israel\u2019s) type
    culture is a very young one, I said it in the context of my own culture, where
    the trends have been historically very long. No doubt, rapid technological changes
    will shorten the cycles, and as every type manufacturer is spending a lot of time
    these days with screen types, it is very hard to predict how long the trends will
    be. If screen technology becomes even more sophisticated, as it has on hand-helds,
    we may be in for a Scotch revival yet!\r\n\r\nWhen I began the design of Mahzor
    Lev Shalem, I was asked by the Rabbinical Assembly, the publisher, to use Hadassah,
    as that was what appeared in their more recent prayerbooks. I knew I was in for
    some trouble. I bought Masterfont\u2019s version, and quickly discarded it. Then
    I bought Fb HadasaNew. The weight was a little closer to what I needed (a little
    too heavy), but I didn\u2019t like the glyph designs, which I thought were too
    reduced and perfunctory. I contacted them and asked if they would work with me:
    I would redo the glyphs and sidebearings, they would do the rest. Lo tov\u2014they
    didn\u2019t understand what I wanted, or didn\u2019t want to. It was then that
    I got in touch with Israel Seldowitz (I knew his brother, Mark, as the U.S. agent
    for AdobeME products). We were soon off and running. The resulting font, which
    I called Milon, is inspired by Hadassah, weighted somewhat like HadasaNew (though
    a little lighter), but something different and new. I still haven\u2019t made
    a full titling version, as the only large type in the book is on the title page
    and cover; for those, I altered the small number of characters I needed in Illustrator.
    For the small Hebrew text in the commentaries, I used an available David, heavily
    adjusted, but still not fully satisfactory. Our time was very short; the entire
    944-page book was produced by me alone, in 22 months, with much other work going
    on at the same time. The David--if it will still be David, which is not a type
    suited to diacriticals--will be redone for the next large printing, in the spring.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 17:42:26'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: The position of the nikud and taamim in Koren had no technical limitation.
    It was done by hand using the equivalent of letraset.
  created: '2010-10-31 18:57:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Scott-Martin and Raphael, I do not agree that readability is only a matter
    of familiarity. As I mentioned earlier, the period for doing all italic books
    was short, and never returned to. And the reaction against high contrast, such
    as Bodoni for text has not reverted in over a century. \r\n\r\nIn my view even
    rhythm and color help the eye-brain combination to easily decode the words, and
    having these uneven contributes to \"noise\" that makes reading less comfortable.
    \r\n\r\nThe question of how much this is a matter of human nature vs familiarity
    has been an on-going debate on Typophile. My own analysis of the issue will be
    shortly up on \"iLoveTypography.com\", so I won't repeat it here. \r\n\r\nBut,
    Scott-Martin, I do think that when you have three Israelis, who actually *read*
    Hebrew, as opposed to decoding it and reciting it, telling you that there is a
    problem reading your font, I think that should be ringing a lot of warning bells
    to you about rhythm and color. \r\n\r\nIt is true that reading Hebrew as a native
    speaker and what diaspora Jews do is a different process psychologically, but
    I doubt that it is so different that a more readable font with nikud for Israelis
    is a less readable one for diaspora Jews. I think you are probably right that
    a wider font is more compatible with nikud, and that is an interesting and insightful
    point. But I don't think that changes the need for even rhythm and color. \r\n\r\nThese
    were the issues on which I was commenting above, but with my \"type design\" hat
    on, and without the confidence of someone who knows the Hebrew language well.
    As I said earlier, I really like the visual idea of the terminals on your font,
    and I wish you well with it. But I do think it can fully succeed only if you get
    the relationship between characters to the point where Israelis also will find
    it a comfortably reading font.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 22:28:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rephael,\r\n\r\n>>  The position of the nikud and taamim in Koren had no
    technical limitation. It was done by hand using the equivalent of letraset.\r\n\r\nAre
    you saying the alignment has no rhyme or reason? No logical consistancy - simply
    based upon E. Koren's eye, and occasional slip of the finger? So, how is Masterfont's
    Volt version 100%? Did he make a huge exception table of various strings, each
    with different alignmemt rules?\r\n\r\nCome on!"
  created: '2010-10-31 22:59:28'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "of course there was rhyme and reason. He had drawings for the placement of
    each vowel and taam and rules for each one. The three people that worked on the
    pages, namely Shuki Friedman, Prof Ada Yardeni (she of course wasn't quite as
    famous in those days :-)) and one other (whose name I forget), then placed the
    nikud on the pages. Prof Yardeni relates that the first page of Bereshit took
    her a full day to do! She sped up after that :-)\r\n\r\nThere of course were many
    inconsistencies in how collisions were dealt with and this can be seen on the
    very first page of the Tanakh. However, with time, each of the people working
    on it, got better at it.\r\n\r\nAs I have mentioned many times on this forum,
    the Volt programming was done by Koren under my and Esther Be'er's strict supervision.
    The font wasn't programmed by Masterfont. I have also stated that the table <em>isn't</em>
    100%. It can't be because VOLT couldn't compile so many collisions. I have already
    stated this on many occasions. However it's pretty much 95%, and each string of
    letter, nikud, taam combination is now consistent. The final corrections are done
    in a separate program programmed in flex for InDesign.\r\n\r\nIf you don't believe
    me, and your comment of \"Come on!\" suggests that you don't, then you are welcome
    to call up Prof Ada Yardeni and she can show you the process of how she stuck
    down the nikud and taamim. She still has the original stuff from over 50 years
    ago!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 04:28:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> As I have mentioned many times on this forum, the Volt programming was
    done by Koren under my and Esther Be'er's strict supervision. The font wasn't
    programmed by Masterfont.\r\n\r\n>> I have also stated that the table isn't 100%.
    It can't be because VOLT couldn't compile so many collisions. I have already stated
    this on many occasions. \r\n\r\nRephael, this is not true. Volt is capable of
    handing an unlimited number of look-ups. My Volt programs contain more unused
    look-ups (some Christian scholars use a sequence where the meteg is placed between
    the nikkud and the taam) than all you could imagine.\r\n\r\nI once experimented
    by copying and pasting all these unused look-ups, to see it Volt could produce
    such a font. Whalah, it worked. And InDesign CS/X ME didn't crash either.\r\n\r\nThe
    factor wasn't processing or crashing. It was gelt."
  created: '2010-11-01 05:20:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  If you don't believe me, and your comment of \"Come on!\" suggests that
    you don't, then you are welcome to call up Prof Ada Yardeni and she can show you
    the process of how she stuck down the nikud and taamim. She still has the original
    stuff from over 50 years ago!\r\n\r\nThe issue isn't the medium. It's the consistency
    of the system that Mr. Koren used. Were there specific rules of placement used
    in general, which were modified to avoid collisions?\r\n\r\nIf there were a set
    of logical rules:\r\neg. the nikkud is centered under these letters, justified
    right by these letters, the taamim are offset to the left of the nikkud, the meteg
    is offset to either the taam or the nikkud etc.\r\n\r\nMy quess that there is
    no unique system, and the workers erred now and them, as you intimidate.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 05:27:46'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "Raphael, I was aware of the laborious method Koren deployed to apply the
    diacriticals to his Bible, using dry transfer over letterpress proofs of type
    cast by Deberny & Peignot at 36 pt Didot. Perhaps you can shed some light on a
    few things, for the historical record. What was in the full glyph set of the metal
    font? Did it comprise only alphabetic glyphs, or did it include dagesh characters,
    too, or vav-cholom combinations? What led to his decision to place the lower diacriticals
    so far from the baseline? Did he have a technical or practical reason for it,
    or was it an aesthetic decision? If it was the latter, on what precedent(s) did
    he base this very unusual decision? If it was for optical clarity, as he claimed,
    why then are the upper nikkud so close to the letters? And, though I am aware
    Koren wanted to accord the letters what he considered their \u201Cnatural\u201D
    form, why did he draw a lamed with a longer ascender than was necessary to achieve
    that, thereby creating visual and technical problems with the lower nikkud and
    taam on the previous line?\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, the Koren letters, per se, are
    not difficult to read as calligraphic types go, but the way they are composed
    with nikkud and taamim make for an unpleasant reading experience. This is an opinion
    I know is shared by some very highly regarded Bible scholars, one of whom had
    quoted, in regard to Koren\u2019s Bible, Samuel Johnson\u2019s famous quip about
    Milton\u2019s epic poems, \u201CI\u2019d rather praise them than read them.\u201D
    As one is today working in an entirely different medium than did Koren, himself,
    why not reinterpret his work for our time? I\u2019m very involved with the reproduction
    in print of art photography, where the question of medium-appropriateness comes
    up all the time. Printing and photography are two different things; the chemistry
    of photo prints becomes part of the fabric of the paper, whereas the offset printing
    process merely deposits a small number of ink molecules on the surface of the
    paper. Digital prints are more like offset, but can look richer because the molecular
    density of the inks is much greater. To be successful and convincing in the reproduction
    of pictures, one must engage in a sensitive act of interpretation appropriate
    to each medium and each photographer's style. My earlier discussion of size-specific
    types is not so different from this, at least not philosophically. As it applies
    to Koren\u2019s work, I always thought his Bible looked like something that had
    been reduced photographically, which it was. So much for his claims of purity.
    In fairness, though, he did what he had to do. The questions now is why perpetuate
    the exigencies of another time? Were Koren were around today, do you not think
    he would have tried to use the current technology to its fullest extent?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 14:29:14'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "> eg. the nikkud is centered under these letters, justified right by these
    letters, the taamim are offset to the left of the nikkud, the meteg is offset
    to either the taam or the nikkud etc.\r\n\r\nI think I misunderstood you to start
    with. Yes there was a system. The nikud is centered under the letter and the taamim
    are placed to the left of them. If there is no room, then different techniques
    were employed depending on the location of other letters. Since the Bible was
    already printed before the nikud was put in, then he took into account the text
    that was on the following line, something that when we digitised the font we couldn't
    do.\r\n\r\nSo there was a system, but yes, people weren't perfect and made mistakes.\r\n\r\n>Rephael,
    this is not true. Volt is capable of handing an unlimited number of look-ups.
    My Volt programs contain more unused look-ups (some Christian scholars use a sequence
    where the meteg is placed between the nikkud and the taam) than all you could
    imagine.\r\n\r\nGohebrew: this is true.\r\n\r\nScott-Martin:\r\nI believe that
    the metal font only had the alphabetical glyphs. I haven't seen them, but I do
    know the man that has them!\r\n\r\nWhen you refer to the lower diacriticals, do
    you mean the taamim or the nikud in general. I have to say that I have never found
    them to be low. It's interesting that this has been brought up.\r\n\r\n> In my
    opinion, the Koren letters, per se, are not difficult to read as calligraphic
    types go, but the way they are composed with nikkud and taamim make for an unpleasant
    reading experience.\r\nReally? Again, this is very interesting. I happen to find
    it extremely easy to leyn from. Maybe it's because I'm used to it.\r\n\r\n>So
    much for his claims of purity.\r\nI wasn't aware of such claims.\r\n\r\n>The questions
    now is why perpetuate the exigencies of another time? Were Koren were around today,
    do you not think he would have tried to use the current technology to its fullest
    extent?\r\nNow that is a very interesting question. He probably would have wanted
    too, but the cost of doing so is rather exhorbitant! \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 16:56:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rephael,\r\n\r\nThis is a radical approach that places the greater importance
    upon the nikkud, and secondary importance upon the taam, when they are combined.\r\n\r\nWhen
    only a taam appears under the letter, I assume it is treated like nikkud. Is this
    correct?\r\n\r\nWhen a meteg follows the nikkud, or just a taam, is then the meteg
    off center to the left?\r\n\r\nThis system has advantage in that the child understands
    the taam is in deed secondary and different from the nikkud.\r\n\r\nThis system
    though has a few major flaws, though, in that \r\na) it is not aesthetic, \r\nb)
    it will never work by most narrow letters, and even some middle-width letters,\r\nbecause
    this system produces left-dominant alignment.\r\n\r\nIn books and manuscripts
    that I have seen, this system used by Koren, and another more aesthetic and logical
    approach to alignment appear.\r\n\r\nIn the bits of the Aleppo Codex http://www.aleppocodex.org/newsite/index.html
    that we have, clearly this system used by Koren is seen. The difficulty here though
    is the obvious fact that the nikkud was drawn after the text. Hence, perhaps,
    the taam was drawn after the nikkud.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, in the book, \"Hebrew
    Manuscripts: A Treasured Legacy\", by Binyamin Richler, published by the Ofeq
    Institute in 1990, there are two illuminated manuscripts that display the system
    not used by Koren.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/manuscript
    1_3438.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/psalms 9_6058.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nYet,
    the system used by Koren does have its roots also in traditional Jewish publishing.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bereshes0001_5565.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-01 18:46:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rephael,\r\n\r\nI have decided that my Crown will have the alignment system
    not used by Koren.\r\n\r\nI have a few versions of FrankReuhl, so some will have
    his preferred system, and some will not.\r\n\r\nIn general, I prefer the alignment
    system which he scorned. Its inconsistency makes no sense, except to you. It enables
    you to reject anything different, even though I have shown you two ancient manuscripts
    which support this very system that he scorned. Plus, the Aleppo evidence can
    be interpreted either way.\r\n\r\nHence, unless you can bring supporting evidence,
    I respectfully think you're wrong. Let any intelligent human review the supporting
    documentation and rationale, and he or she will arrive at the same conclusion:
    Koren's method makes no sense."
  created: '2010-11-01 22:03:51'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: ">In general, I prefer the alignment system which he scorned.\r\n\r\nI wasn't
    aware that he scorned anything. \r\n\r\nYou are very welcome to use any system
    that you see fit. You asked me what Koren's approach was, I told you. I happen
    to like his approach. You don't. That's okay. Do whatever you want.\r\n\r\nYes,
    the nikud is secondary and the taamim is tertiary. I never actually met Koren,
    but this is what his system seems to indicate. However, I did meet Tzvi Narkis
    and he told me that his (ie Narkis) system was also to make the nikud secondary
    and the taamim tertiary. Again, I don't know whether this was an aesthetic, historical,
    or halakhic decision, but rather that was his decision too.\r\n\r\nThere are very
    few Hebrew typographers in the world that have been recognised as being \"great\"
    in their field, and even fewer that designed fonts with taamey mikra. I think
    it's fair to say that Koren and Narkis were 2 of these people and it's interesting
    that they both came up with <em>exactly</em> the same system. I suspect it was
    therefore not random.\r\n\r\nDo you have any other examples of great typographers
    that have come up with different systems?\r\n\r\nBTW, you should know that revered
    Publishing House, Kol Menachem, also follows this exact same system. I'm not sure
    if you agree with them religiously, but I know that they are very fanatical about
    precision.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 05:28:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Scorned simply means that he preferred to do it one way, and not to do it
    another.\r\n\r\nYou have claimed that the way he chose is authentic, and the other
    is not. My research shows that the method that you glorify may in deed have a
    basis in old manuscripts, but so does the other."
  created: '2010-11-02 05:38:48'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: I never made such a claim. I claimed that it is consistent (well as consistent
    as can be with 3 people working by hand over a number of years).
  created: '2010-11-02 05:43:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>>  There are very few Hebrew typographers in the world that have been recognised
    as being \"great\" in their field, and even fewer that designed fonts with taamey
    mikra. I think it's fair to say that Koren and Narkis were 2 of these people and
    it's interesting that they both came up with exactly the same system. I suspect
    it was therefore not random.\r\n\r\nThis is not a proof. \r\n\r\nObviously, they
    were aware of each other's work. Perhaps, they even influenced each other.\r\n\r\nAnother,
    even greater Hebrew type designer, who created nikkud and taam, was the late Isamar
    David. Did he follow in these footsteps?\r\n\r\nRabbi Chaim Miller of the Gutnick
    Chumash fame (Kol Menachem) is my very good friend, and a fellow Lubavitcher.
    Although a tremendous Torah scholar, his mastery of typesetting leaves much to
    be desired. \r\n\r\nFinally, the story is told of very poor communities in Czarist
    Russia, which could not afford to hire both a Chassidic rabbi, and a Litvish rabbi.
    Instead, they hired only one, based on which segment was larger in the community.\r\n\r\nIn
    towns that hired a Litvish rabbi, the chassidic Jews asked their Rebbe what to
    do? He advised them: \"Ask your question to the Litvish rabbi, and then do the
    very opposite.\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 05:57:29'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I have Ismar's book. I wasn't aware that he made nikud or taamim.\r\n\r\nSorry
    you don't like the Kol Menachem typesetting. Funny how you think the Koren siddur
    is great and that is rubbish and they were both typeset by the same person :-)"
  created: '2010-11-02 06:15:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I have Ismar's book. I wasn't aware that he made nikud or taamim.\r\n\r\nYes,
    he drew a font for Tanach with nikkud and taam. He even set a page as an example.\r\n\r\nDo
    you have the thin book called I think the Hebrew letter. It was sold in the early
    nineties, and had a pull-out section of cards. I believe that he wanted them created.
    I intend to do that.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  Sorry you don't like the Kol Menachem typesetting.
    Funny how you think the Koren siddur is great and that is rubbish and they were
    both typeset by the same person :-)\r\n\r\nI never said I liked the Koren siddur.\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Miller's genius is the content. I told Chaim to make it searchable, for in a few
    years most people will search PDFs. He hasn't listened.\r\n\r\nHis books are typeset
    by him. Did he typeset the Siddur? Or you typeset his English? His English stuff
    is now very attractive."
  created: '2010-11-02 06:28:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I just reviewed ArtScroll's Stone Tanach.\r\n\r\nThey employ an alignment
    system that shifts the nikkud to the right to make place on its left the taam
    or meteg or both.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, they are using the Tag software.\r\n\r\nIn any
    case, it is clear that Koren prefered a methodology for alignment that others
    do not."
  created: '2010-11-02 06:55:50'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I typeset the chumash part of the Kol Menachim Chumash.\r\n\r\nThe Artscroll
    Tanakh \"system\" was limited by the technology that they used. It wasn't Tag,
    the name escapes me, but I know that one of their software plugs died and they
    realised they would have to move to InDesign. They consulted with me at the time
    when I had my own typesetting firm.\r\n\r\nThe Kol Menachem system employs the
    same system as Koren (surprise, surprise) as does the Keter Tanakh. I have to
    check Mossad HaRav Kook and Chorev, but I'm fairly sure they also do the same
    system, but I don't remember."
  created: '2010-11-02 17:13:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "ArtScroll used the Bedford system. It has been replaced by using InDesign
    CS/x ME. It uses a non-Koren alignment system as you see in this sample from the
    first page of the book of Joshua.\r\n\r\nCould ArtScroll afford a custom Hadasa
    that does it Koren-like?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/artscroll0001_6624.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-02 17:32:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Is this your work? The alignment here is very poor.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Genesis10001_6071.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nKol
    Menachem, Genesis 1:1"
  created: '2010-11-02 17:37:33'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "no, this is NOT my work, I have only typeset Shemot and Devarim. The example
    that you show is NOT my work. I also moved the patach gnuva. \r\n\r\n\"Could ArtScroll
    afford a custom Hadasa that does it Koren-like?\"\r\nI have no idea about their
    financials.\r\n\r\nI think the positioning of Artscroll that you have shown isn't
    really the best positioning in the world. Look at the word VeChol or VeAta. The
    shva is too far to the left by all systems. The moment the basic nikud is poorly
    and inconsistently positioned, you can really use it as an example of taamey mikra.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 12:40:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I thought so, Raphael. Your work is of a craftsman.\r\n\r\nChaim did this
    in Quark, with flipped text boxes, knock-off fonts, and Davka plug-in for taam.
    People complained, so he hired you.\r\n\r\nI didn't think it was your work?\r\n\r\nWhy
    didn't you add shvah-na and kamatz-katan, too. Shai L'Morah did all the research
    already. "
  created: '2010-11-04 14:22:09'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: The decision to add shva na and kamatz katan is that of the publisher, not
    of the typesetter. However, clearly I can't just copy Shai L'Morah -- that would
    be theft of intellectual work.
  created: '2010-11-06 16:25:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nPlease back up your statement that it is intellectual property
    to correctly place a shvah-na where it should appear in a verse?\r\n\r\nDoes Shai
    L'Mora play a royalty to Minchat Shai's descendants?\r\n\r\nI think that this
    statement is incorrect, and not merely over zealous.\r\n\r\nI have 8 kids, and
    many versions Bereshes and Shmos from their days in yeshiva katana, elementary
    school.\r\n\r\nMost are typeset aesthetically (with the nikud and taam centered
    as one unit, and not with only the nikud centered, and the taam offset to the
    left), and without a patach kenuva. Tow fairly recent publications, Chorev from
    Feldheim, and HaMaor, both do feature a patach kenuva, but only Chorev/Feldheim
    follows the Koren-like alignment system."
  created: '2010-11-06 23:00:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  no, this is NOT my work, I have only typeset Shemot and Devarim. The
    example that you show is NOT my work. I also moved the patach gnuva.\r\n\r\nMy
    shmot must be from an older printing. It sucks typographically, but a brilliant
    book,\r\n\r\nCan you post a sample page of your work for Kol Menachem?"
  created: '2010-11-07 00:58:42'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I don't understand your comments. If research is done and published, you
    can't just copy it! If an author writes a book, you can't copy the book and say,
    well the alphabet is public domain, he just put them in a certain order. Of course
    the order is copyright!!!\r\n\r\nTherefore, if Shay L'Mora has done extensive
    work (and they have) and have determined based on research of masora etc that
    the shva na in a certain place, then this indeed cannot be copied.\r\n\r\nThis
    first came up with a project that I started for Gefen Publishing House. They were
    doing a work on Onkelus and needed an accurate Chumash text. I was a freelance
    typesetter and said why not just proofread it against Koren (since everyone knows
    that this is the most accurate text -- I wasn't an employee at the time). They
    checked with their lawyers and said you can't proofread against Koren (or any
    other text for that matter, unless the text has been expressly put in the public
    domain, eg the DavkaWriter text). This is a simple extension of that legal advice.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it's okay in the States -- I don't know. But in Israel it's most certainly illegal."
  created: '2010-11-07 03:33:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>   If research is done and published, you can't just copy it! If an author
    writes a book, you can't copy the book and say, well the alphabet is public domain,
    he just put them in a certain order. Of course the order is copyright!!!\r\n\r\nAs
    I understand US Copyright law regarding a public domain work, one can not copy
    the image that one sees, but the content is not subject to copyright.\r\n\r\nThe
    Chumash is public domain. The rules defined by the Minchat Shai are public domain.\r\n\r\nTo
    copy his page, with his custom typeface, is in deed a violation of copyright.
    That's the image.\r\n\r\nBut to copy its content, that a shvah-na symbol appears
    above the second shva is the word plini in Genesis x:x, this is content, and public
    domain."
  created: '2010-11-07 03:43:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  They checked with their lawyers and said you can't proofread against
    Koren (or any other text for that matter...\r\n\r\nPerhaps, the laws differ in
    Israel."
  created: '2010-11-07 03:45:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the content is not subject to copyright\r\n\r\nThis statement is confusing
    the issues. The general principle is that ideas are not copyrightable, but the
    form in which they are put is. And even what this means is up to the courts. Are
    you talking about copying nikkud?  "
  created: '2010-11-07 03:56:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nLike any graphic symbol, there are laws in the US
    to protect them, such as design patent, and to a lesser degree, trademark.\r\n\r\nYour
    point about ideas versus the expression of ideas is correct. The expression of
    ideas is subject to US Copyright, but ideas alone are not.\r\n\r\nIn the previous
    posts, the discussion is a public domain work.\r\n\r\nApparently, the Israeli
    legal system extends certain rights to a derivative work based 100$ upon a public
    domain work, as Raphael pointed out.\r\n\r\nAs I understand US Copyight law based
    100$ upon a public domain work, no rights are extended.\r\n\r\nHence, ArtScroll
    must place its 100$ upon a public domain work as the property of the not-for-profit
    Mesorah Heritage Foundation, and only subject to US Copyright the entire image
    of the page of ArtScroll.\r\n\r\nEven its translation is ownerless, for it was
    paid 100% by public funds, and ArtScroll could only subject to US Copyright the
    entire image of the page."
  created: '2010-11-07 04:15:26'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I don't know what gohebrew is talking about, but I'm talking about the decision
    as to whether a word should have a shva na or a chataf patach. I know that 3 people
    worked for 10 years on the Koren Tanakh making these decisions. GoHebrew feels
    that this is copyable. Israeli law disagrees with him. I don't know about US law.
    However, I think it's okay for business to use common sense.\r\n\r\nYes, technically
    he may be right about Artscroll's translation, but is it <em>fair</em> to copy
    their translation in part? I mean, is everything we do based on whether somebody
    followed some copyright protocol? Is it okay for a kid to copy their friend's
    homework if their friend didn't first file it at the copyright office? Do we really
    need to discuss the fine details of law for something so obvious? Does this really
    need to be set in law?\r\n\r\nCome on!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-07 04:34:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Regarding the appearance of shvah-na in the 5 books of Moses printed by Shai-Lmorah
    publishers, I understand that Rabbi Yehudah Winefeld Shlita applied the grammatical
    rules of the Minchat Shai.\r\n\r\nThe sales advantage of their books is not this
    feature, nor that it has kamatz-katens. People do not buy it for that at all.
    They like its clearly typeset text (does KP own a copyright on clarity?), and
    simple-to-understand commentary.\r\n\r\nWhy does Raphael play the moral part,
    when his firm attempts to enforce its rights in court?\r\n\r\nCopyright laws define
    what is allowed and what is not.\r\n\r\nTorah law is stricter in many regards,
    and also more lenient when it comes to \u05D9\u05D2\u05D3\u05D9\u05DC \u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4
    \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05D3\u05D9\u05E8 promoting the study of Torah.\r\n\r\nI thin
    a court of Jewish law, Raphael would lose.\r\n\r\nAnyway, GoHebrew's Cbhumash
    will follow R' Zalman Henna's Hebrew grammar principles, and not he typeset in
    Crown. B\"H."
  created: '2010-11-07 04:54:59'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Again, you are missing the point.\r\n\r\nYou said it's okay to copy somebody
    else's research in dikduk. You further \"strengthen\" your argument by saying
    that the sales advantage of the chumash is not that research.\r\n\r\nI think that
    this <em>is</em> immoral."
  created: '2010-11-07 16:36:26'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "This forum has certainly disintegrated! American copyright law gives no protection
    to ideas, per se, or to their interpretations. The use of a diacritical symbol
    in a certain way in a public domain text would surely be considered an interpretation,
    even if the larger work of the interpreter  (a published book, for example) otherwise
    falls within the more general guidelines of copyright protection. The text of
    a commentary published within the temporal guidelines of copyright, however, enjoys
    full protection. Its design, no matter how original, does not. \r\n\r\nFor Mahzor
    Lev Shalem, I designed a special character to denote bowing. The character was
    based on a paleo-Hebrew kaf (as in \"korim\"). This is original work, so in theory
    it could be copyrighted or trademarked. But why would one want to take ownership
    of such a thing? I would be pleased if others would wish to imitate it. Moreover,
    on what basis could one defend it in court? In America, one would have to prove
    that the infringing party has impaired the commerce of the copyright holder--very
    unlikely in a case such as this. To obtain injunctive relief through the courts,
    to prevent someone from publishing a work with the purloined symbol, would be
    nothing but mean-spirited and therefore, in my opinion, against precepts of halakhah.
    \r\n\r\nThe problem with font design copyright, which arguably does not exist
    in the U.S., is that the white space (sidebearings, kerning) is as much, if not
    greater, part of a font's performance as are the glyph outlines. Defending white
    space in court would take the resources of a billionaire with a lot of time on
    his or her hands.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bowing_4099.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-07 16:36:47'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I'm not sure you understand the significance of what you are saying. Koren
    has spent a tremendous amount of money on marking up kamatz katan, shva na and
    mileil throughout it's texts.\r\n\r\nIt has spent even more decades ago on research
    creating an accurate Tanakh.\r\n\r\nIs this work not protected by copyright in
    the USA? I'm most surprised. In Israel it most certainly is.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    that is the same of a using an icon to denote bowing (with no disrepect to your
    icon :-) )"
  created: '2010-11-07 16:44:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "ArtScroll warns readers that icons are in deed protected, and threatens that
    they will be held accountable to the maximum extent of the law.\r\n\r\nDoes KP
    warn the reader as such regarding the placement of the kamatz katan, shvah-na,
    and mileil, to indicate its consideration of ownership of such matters?\r\n\r\nIs
    taking this immoral?\r\n\r\nThe Talmud reports that a certain family knew how
    to burn sacrifices in such a manner in which the fire rose straight up. Only they
    knew this. They refused to share this knowledge.\r\n\r\nAfter this family disappeared,
    this knowledge disappeared as well.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud condemns their selfishness.\r\n\r\nI
    think that it's immoral to claim hold to a knowledge that belongs to the masses."
  created: '2010-11-07 16:55:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In the US one of the principles of permitted \"fair use\" for including a
    passage from another work is whether that use would decrease the market value
    of the original. If so, then it would not be fair use. But these things are complicated
    and it's really up to the courts.  \r\n"
  created: '2010-11-07 20:24:57'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "In both essence and practicality, there is no defensibility  the U.S. for
    such a thing as Koren's diacritical usage. For one thing, the diacriticals are
    being applied to what U.S. courts would believe to be the most public of all public
    domain texts: the Bible. The originality of Koren's interpretation of ancient
    sources would be very hard to establish as meaningful. The criterion that Bill
    mentioned, whether or not the copyright holder's ability to sell his work was
    impaired by someone's borrowing (the defendant would simply call it \"agreement\")
    an interpretation, is the gold standard of our copyright law. Being \"right\"
    is neither here nor there in the U.S.; our system is based on the establishment
    of provable damages. Practically speaking, each side of a dispute would have to
    rely on expert testimony, so the cost of a such a defense could easily exceed
    any potential income for decades, even centuries, to come. \r\n\r\nMy personal
    (and professional) opinion is that Koren's diacriticals are simply an \"idea,\"
    an interpretation of sources which are, therefore, outside the reach of legal
    protection here--as well they should be. I can imagine that, in Israel, it's easier
    to find a judge who knows something about the kamatz katan than it is in America,
    but even so, our system of jurisprudence would frown on a case such as this as
    \"frivolous,\" and likely dismiss it. In some states, the litigant would be liable
    for covering the defendant's legal costs. In Massachusetts, they could even pay
    \"treble\" (3x) damages.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I don't know of any serious Bible
    scholars who still rely on Koren's Bible text. It's been superseded by others,
    most notably Breuer's (at al.) Keter Yerushalayim. Now that facsimiles are available
    of all the key texts, it's open season."
  created: '2010-11-07 23:39:45'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I don't think any serious publisher in the US would copy Koren or anybody
    else's text whether it would be held up in court or not. It's kind of abc for
    publishing.\r\n\r\nRegarding Keter Yerushalayim, I just have one question: Which
    of Breuer's text is most accurate? the Mossad Harav Kook, the Keter Yerushalayim
    or the Chorev? They are all Breuer, they all claim to be perfect, but they are
    of course are all different because of Israeli copyright laws!\r\n\r\nAt least
    with Koren, we only have one version!"
  created: '2010-11-08 16:14:22'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: 'Raphael, Regarding the scholarly texts, I believe that, at the moment, there''s
    no single set, but rather a group that must be consulted: the Yosef Ofer (at al.)
    revision of Breuer (Jerusalem Crown, 2000), the Mikraot Gedolot Haketer published
    by Bar-Ilan University (in progress), and the Hebrew University Bible Project
    (also in progress). And with the Masoretic sources available online, one can make
    ad hoc editorial decisions in ways one could not earlier. Even an am haaretz like
    me can read the Aleppo or Leningrad in all their glory, and frankly, as someone
    accustomed to interpreting old lettering from a technical point of view, I have
    sometimes come to different conclusions than some of the scholarly gedolim.'
  created: '2010-11-08 17:17:41'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Yes, but the problem is that much of the Allepo Codex was destroyed and Breuer
    tried to fill in the gaps.\r\n\r\nLook there are different opinions out there
    as to which is the most accurate. Obviously I have to say that the Koren one is
    :-)\r\n\r\nI should also point out that in Israel, if there is a disagreement
    in shul on the leyning, nobody pulls out a Breuer, but everybody, dati leumi,
    charedi, ashkenazi, sepharadi, will ALWAYS pull out a Koren to settle a dispute.
    So it has become the accepted correct text for better (in our case) or for worse."
  created: '2010-11-08 21:04:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '[d-post]'
  created: '2010-11-08 21:23:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Yes, but the problem is that much of the Allepo Codex was destroyed and
    Breuer tried to fill in the gaps.\r\n\r\nBut there's  Sassoon MS , Cairo Codex....
    with Koren -- we don't know; was A, L, used by Madan as the basis for Koren? "
  created: '2010-11-08 21:26:07'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "There are scholars who claim the Cairo Codex is not authentic, or, at least,
    not from the early 9th century, as was claimed. Be that as it may, Bible scholarship
    goes on, from one school of thought to another. Such is the nature of fashion.
    As a typographer, I believe there's more than just ratiocination that goes into
    interpreting the diacriticals from these sources, attempts to extract a perfect
    system from things that might not have been perfectly systematic. The good news
    for us is that they'll continue publishing Bibles, each more \"authentic\" than
    the one before, and we'll all have lots of work. God willing, older sources will
    be found and we'll have to reset everything. \r\n\r\nBack to an earlier topic:
    by U.S. law, my little bowing sign can be patented and trademarked (and thereby
    defensible from copiers), but probably not copyrighted, because it functions as
    a complement to the alphabet. Similarly, a typeface name can be trademarked, but
    the type design itself has little protection, except as digital code. Even if
    one could come up with a cogent definition of \"design,\" there are very large
    commercial interests in this country who have and will fight the idea of a design
    copyright with great vigor and money, because its existence could call into question
    much of what they consider their property. It's not an equitable system."
  created: '2010-11-09 04:02:00'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "I found this interesting blog post by Michael Factor, a British-born Israeli
    patent attorney, regarding font protection in Israel. Here's the link (scroll
    down a bit): http://blog.ipfactor.co.il/category/israel-ip/\r\n\r\nFor those of
    you interested in the intricacies of U.S. copyright in general, I recommend the
    blog of William Patry, who's widely regarded as one the the leading copyright
    attorneys in America (many say the foremost). Sadly, Patry sold out to the Evil
    Copyright Empire, Google, and serves as their Senior Copyright Counsel. Nevertheless,
    his blog often offers his personal view, which is always smart and nuanced. As
    he is quick to point out, it's a personal blog, not a Google blog, though his
    position no doubt limits some of the topics he discusses. http://williampatry.blogspot.com/\r\n\r\nIt's
    worth knowing this stuff; a good knowledge of copyright law can help designers
    understand what they can own, and what they can't. It's knowledge that can be
    used profitably.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-09 15:27:22'
date: '2010-06-29 17:16:55'
title: The New Rabbinical Assembly Mahzor

---
