---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "One of the most striking peculiarities of font users is the fact that most
  font users do not care about the most elementary quality requirements of fonts.\r\n\r\nHave
  a look at this picture:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique.gif\r\n\r\nAlthough
  Helvetica oblique has been available in all PostScript printers for more than 25
  years and therefore is one of the most often used fonts, no font user ever noticed
  nor cared that the accented and non-accented letters have different side bearings
  with the consequence that Helvetica oblique is unusable for quality composition
  in languages with accented letters, e.g. French, German, etc.\r\n\r\nA font user
  may be compared with a person who does not notice nor care that the black string
  on his left shoe differs from the white string on his right shoe."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Uli, aren't you making the mistake of equating font users in general with
    those who use a particular cut of a particular typeface?\r\nIn the days when I
    used Helvetica, I always used the Neue version. I suspect that most \"quality\"
    compositors would do the same."
  created: '2010-07-01 21:42:37'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uli, aren't you making the mistake of equating font users in general...\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nIf
    Typophile users cared about the most elementary quality requirements of fonts,
    at least some of them would disapprove of what is depicted above. But nobody does."
  created: '2010-07-03 05:28:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If Typophile users cared about the most elementary quality requirements
    of fonts, at least some of them would disapprove of what is depicted above.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    untrue, that nobody cares about those bugs. But Linotype generally does not care
    as much about the technical quality of the fonts as many much smaller foundries,
    especially not about the technical quality of the old fonts.\r\n\r\nIf they are
    also available from Adobe and if they are really the same with regard to the number
    of glyphs (for example), which is not taken for granted, you should buy the Adobe
    versions. In case of Helvetica Oblique, available from Adobe, the side bearings
    are more consistent. The same is true for the hinting (in case of other fonts).\r\n\r\nAdobe
    even provides bug histories of some (if not all) of their fonts. Every foundry
    should do that. A simple list with the status of bugs and the version of the font,
    in which a bug was fixed. This requires correct version numbers. Many foundries
    don\u2019t seem to care much about correct version numbers.\r\n\r\nAdditionally
    I would expect to be informed per mail, when I licensed a font, for which an update
    is available. I think, this is also not a common practice."
  created: '2010-07-03 08:32:40'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\nIf you agree in what I wrote above, you admit, that fonts are
    software."
  created: '2010-07-03 09:13:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> If you agree in what I wrote above, you admit, that fonts are software.\r\n\r\nEven
    if fonts were \"software\" (I will not embark on this preposterous discussion
    here), it should be remembered that Helvetica oblique was identical with Helvetica
    Roman in 1985, when Adobe claimed to have \"created\" Helvetica oblique.\r\n\r\nThe
    slant was made by the word processor:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique2.gif\r\n\r\nor
    by the printer driver or the distiller:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique3.gif\r\n\r\nThe
    \"Side Bearing Feature\" (SBF) was added later, when Linotype and Adobe \"created\"
    a \"new\" oblique version of Helvetica Roman thereby adding the SBF as a \"Unique
    Selling Proposition\" (UPS).\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-04 08:46:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But nobody does.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you are in business, it's not a good
    idea to criticize your competitors' products in a public forum.\r\nYou will probably
    have to rub shoulders with them at industry events.\r\n\r\nAnd then there is the
    \"glass houses\" thing -- nobody puts out 100% perfect products all the time,
    and criticism is likely to come full circle.\r\n\r\nAs a font producer, the best
    thing is to set a high standard.\r\n\r\nSo the \"Ban Comic Sans\" initiatives
    will have to come from Typophile font users, rather than Typophile font makers.\r\n\r\nBut
    what can they do to remedy such snafus?\r\n(\"Snafu\" is a WWII-era acronym meaning
    \"situation normal all f*cked up\")\r\nI suspect they realize that there is little
    they can do to change the system, certainly not be merely complaining individually
    about what everyone knows is not a \"quality\" font in the first place, so why
    bother?\r\n\r\nIf you want to change things, you have to organize and campaign,
    it's not enough just to bitch and whine, which will merely create a bad vibe and
    alienate potential allies.\r\nIf you don't want to change things, but just want
    to grandstand beating up on easy targets, because it makes you feel superior,
    well, that's the impression you give, and it's counterproductive to what you perhaps
    think you care about, because people will just dismiss you as a crazy hothead,
    and your cause along with you.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-04 19:15:18'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>Although Helvetica oblique has been available in all PostScript printers
    for more than 25 years and therefore is one of the most often used fonts ...</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    need to get all upset about this ... Originally (as in \"25 years ago\", though
    I have a feel that's a bit exaggerated), PostScript printers such as the lauded
    LaserWriter had precious little memory. And a very large part of it was desperately
    needed for full-page rasterizing, so its programmers came up with a couple of
    shortcuts. One of them was the \"Helvetica Narrow\" trick, which has haunted software
    writers ever since -- only recently, even Adobe's own InDesign. The other one
    was obliqueing Helvetica and Courier (which was even further humiliated by having
    its strokes thickened for a faux-bold version, and then double that for faux bold
    italics).\r\nSince then, available memory has increased and computers became much
    faster. No need anymore to distort a perfectly good Helvetica."
  created: '2010-07-04 22:25:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nThere are numerous technically flawed fonts. Therefore it would
    not be worth the trouble to mention the technical flaws, e.g. the wrong side bearings,
    of any technically flawed font.\r\n\r\nBut Helvetica is not ANY technically flawed
    font. Helvetica is the most widely used, the most widely bought and the most widely
    advertised sans serif font of the world.\r\n\r\nTherefore, it should be expected
    that, among those innumerable Helvetica font buyers, there is at least ONE font
    buyer who noticed that Helvetica accent letters have wrong side bearings. But
    nobody of these dimwitted font buyers ever noticed this technical flaw of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    is also featured by special exhibitions. Therefore, it should be expected that
    at least ONE of these \"font experts\" who run Helvetica exhibitions, e.g.\r\n\r\nwww.helveticaforever.com/en/index.html\r\n\r\nshould
    have noticed that Helvetica accent letters have wrong side bearings. But nobody
    of these dimwitted \"font experts\" who run Helvetica exhibitions ever noticed
    this technical flaw of Helvetica.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-05 06:16:37'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\nHave a look at this screenshot:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique4.jpg\r\n\r\nIn
    Germany, \"Mangel\" (singular) denotes \"bug\" (\"fault\", \"defect\", etc.),\r\nand
    \"M\xE4ngel\" (plural) denotes \"bugs\" (\"faults\", \"defects\", etc.).\r\n\r\nIf
    laymen compare \"Ma\" in \"Mangel\" with \"M\xE4\" in \"M\xE4ngel\", the side
    bearing bug is conspicuous even to bloody laymen, who know nothing about fonts.\r\n\r\nBut
    neither the font makers at Linotype nor the font makers at Adobe nor the many
    thousands of Helvetica font buyers ever noticed this conspicuous side bearing
    bug relating to all accented letters of Helvetica. That's why I say that font
    makers and font buyers are dimwits."
  created: '2010-07-05 07:19:37'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "And here a screenshot of the Helvetica bug for French:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique5.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-05 07:43:01'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\nAlthough on the Adobe website the same bug is displayed, the
    sidebearing bugs are fixed in the Adobe OT versions of Helvetica Oblique."
  created: '2010-07-05 07:44:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> bugs are fixed in the Adobe OT versions\r\n\r\nI know Adobe OT versions
    featuring the bugs\r\n\r\n> on the Adobe website the same bug is displayed\r\n\r\nWYSIWYG"
  created: '2010-07-05 08:37:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\n<cite>WYSIWYG</cite>\r\n\r\nIn this case they have added the
    bug in a version later than 2.030 (FontFolio 11)."
  created: '2010-07-05 08:53:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> they have added the bug in a version later than 2.030\r\n\r\nThe bug already
    existed before, e.g. in FontFolio 10, e.g.:\r\n\r\n\"Version 1.040;PS 001.000;Core
    1.0.35;makeotf.lib1.5.4492\""
  created: '2010-07-05 09:01:14'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "But in the Adobe version 2.030 of Helvetica Oblique it is fixed. So y either
    don\u2019t g, w y actually s, or they have refixed the bug."
  created: '2010-07-05 09:18:22'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screen_5362.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn the Helvetica
    shipping with Mac OS I don't see a problem. Are you sure you are not to nervous
    about the whole thing? <strong>Maybe it is your browser? Try Firefox, works on
    every system.</strong> It seems like you use IE6, well it could be it doesn't
    handle the website correct, hm, couldn't it? Not everybody's web-tech got stuck
    at the evolutionary stage of your personal web-site. I wonder why you take this
    whole font (forging, piracy, bankruptcy stories) business so serious btw. (and
    why you feel the need to swear about font buyers), but that is nothing for anybody
    else to figure out. \r\n\r\nMac OS Helvetica:\r\n<code>Version \u2013\u2013\u2013
    6.1d18e1\r\nUnique name\t\u2013\u2013\u2013 Helvetica Oblique; 6.1d18e1; 2009-06-29\r\nCopyright
    \u2013\u2013\u2013 \xA9 1990-2006 Apple Computer Inc. \xA9 1981 Linotype AG \xA9
    1990-91 Type Solutions Inc.\r\nTrademark \u2013\u2013\u2013 Helvetica is a registered
    trademark of Linotype AG</code>\r\n\r\nScreen from Linotype\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screen2_5617.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    find it suspicious that you \"care\" so much about fonts and don't even activate
    clear-type..."
  created: '2010-07-05 11:12:41'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Maybe it is your browser?\r\n\r\nNo. It's because you selected OpenType
    Com for screen display.\r\n\r\n- For OpenType Com, which retails at 58,31 \u20AC,
    the bug was removed.\r\n\r\n- For OpenType Std, which retails at 34,51 \u20AC,
    the bug was not removed.\r\n\r\nYou must pay more than 50 bucks to get a non-bugged
    Linotype font.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-05 11:26:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>That's why I say that font makers and font buyers are dimwits.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept
    for Americans, British, Canadians, Australians, &c. \r\nWe've excised accents
    from out language, don'tcha know.\r\nWhich may explain this problem, if Anglophones
    were involved in production of said fonts, and not paying enough attention to
    \"foreign\" characters."
  created: '2010-07-05 12:41:51'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: I think your remarks are offensive and non-constructive. Why moan on a forum
    like this about dimwits and bad bad foundries selling bad bad products for a too
    high price. No one is telling you to use Helvetica, and if others want to use
    it the way it comes that's up to them. Why insult them. Rather than moan you could
    try to improve the situation yourself, by contacting the foundry and sharing your
    observations and try to work with, rather than against them to make the fonts
    better. You don't have to approve with everything foundries do, but moaning about
    it here is hardly gonna make the situation any better. And insulting other users
    is nonsensical and pointless. Why waste your time?
  created: '2010-07-05 13:00:22'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "When I discover a bug or an unexpected behaviour in a font (Yes, it happens.
    Not all the time, but every now and then \u2013 fonts are complex pieces of software
    after all), I directly contact the foundry. So far, my experience is very good.
    Type designers and distributors are very responsive, they appreciate user feedback.
    Usually, I receive an apology and fixed font files in no time. Try to find this
    level of support and service in other fields. No, I don\u2019t use Helvetica Oblique. "
  created: '2010-07-05 17:55:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: According to my researches, Helvetica fonts with the bugs described above
    have been sold during the past eight to ten years by both Adobe and Linotype and
    by other font outlets (FontShop etc.). Considering that Helvetica is one of the
    most-often used fonts, innumerable persons and companies have bought these faulty
    Helvetica fonts.
  created: '2010-07-05 20:10:48'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>A font user may be compared with a person who does not notice nor care
    that the black string on his left shoe differs from the white string on his right
    shoe.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's more like the stitching not quite matching on a pair of
    shoes that are used rarely.\r\n\r\nLike all software, fonts can have bugs so I
    think it's important to only buy from vendors who offer an upgrade path and a
    way to report bugs to someone who can fix them."
  created: '2010-07-06 02:57:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "typodermic:\r\n\r\nFrank W. (and formerly Bruno S.)\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/chevalier.htm\r\n\r\nand
    other Linotype people regularly visit my font forgers website\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers\r\n\r\nAnd
    this Typophile forum is also regularly visited by Linotype people.\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, this thread about the defective Helvetica was visited yesterday at least
    twice by Frank W. and other Linotype people:\r\n\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:08:38:33
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique4.jpg HTTP/1.1\" 200 218863 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.4) Gecko/20100611 Firefox/3.6.4
    (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:08:38:57
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique2.gif HTTP/1.1\" 200 9490 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.4) Gecko/20100611 Firefox/3.6.4
    (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:08:39:13
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique3.gif HTTP/1.1\" 200 19328 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.4) Gecko/20100611 Firefox/3.6.4
    (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:08:39:19
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique.gif HTTP/1.1\" 200 29877 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.4) Gecko/20100611 Firefox/3.6.4
    (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:11:51:55
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique.gif HTTP/1.1\" 200 29877 \"http://typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; U; Intel Mac OS X 10_6_3; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16
    (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0 Safari/533.16\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196
    - - [05/Jul/2010:11:54:16 +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique2.gif HTTP/1.1\"
    200 9490 \"http://typophile.com/node/71858\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; U; Intel
    Mac OS X 10_6_3; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0 Safari/533.16\"
    www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:11:54:38 +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique4.jpg
    HTTP/1.1\" 200 218863 \"http://typophile.com/node/71858\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh;
    U; Intel Mac OS X 10_6_3; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0
    Safari/533.16\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [05/Jul/2010:11:55:17
    +0200] \"GET /temporary/Helvetica-oblique5.jpg HTTP/1.1\" 200 226145 \"http://typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; U; Intel Mac OS X 10_6_3; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16
    (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0 Safari/533.16\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n\r\ninetnum:
    \     213.61.7.192 - 213.61.7.207\r\ndescr:        LINOTYPE LIBRARY GMBH\r\nperson:
    \      Bruno Steinert\r\naddress:      LINOTYPE LIBRARY GMBH\r\naddress:      DU
    PONT STR. 1\r\naddress:      61352 BAD HOMBURG\r\n\r\nIt is funny that Bruno S.,
    who was dismissed a couple of years ago, is still mentioned as the person responsible
    for the Linotype outfit.\r\n\r\nNow that it is known that Linotype has been selling
    a faulty Helvetica font during the past ten years to innumerable font buyers,
    Frank W., Bruno S. and other Linotype people should start to pay damages to all
    those innumerable font buyers, who received this faulty Helvetica font.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 06:17:55'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I guess you're just going to swing punches at anything that moves, huh? Enjoy
    your thread.
  created: '2010-07-06 07:27:20'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: 'Paranoia is a hard thing to get rid of. Try to get some professional help.
    And remember: there are worse things than font piracy in this world, hunger, war,
    violence etc. Why not direct your unlimited energy somewhere where it would really
    help people. '
  created: '2010-07-06 08:05:01'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Queneau:\r\n\r\n> Paranoia\r\n \r\nYou should work in the Linotype sales
    department. Whenever Linotype customers complain about defective Linotype fonts,
    you tell them they suffer from paranoia or schizophrenia or alzheimer or, to use
    my word, from dimwittedness.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 15:33:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>Ten years and one month after</strong>\r\n\r\nOne month ago, I described
    the so-called side-bearing font bugs contained in the OpenType version of the
    standard Helvetica font which has been sold during the past ten years to innumerable
    dimwits who waste money on defective Linotype fonts.\r\n\r\nFrank Wildenberg regularly
    visits this Typophile website and also my own font forgers website. For instance,
    a few days ago, he re-visited my website concerning my documents about Bruno Steinert's
    greatest enemy, Harvey Hunt:\r\n\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [19/Jul/2010:18:32:39 +0200]
    \"GET /forgers/teipel.pdf HTTP/1.1\" 200 91949 \"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=safari&rls=en&q=harvey+hunt
    +berthold&aq=0&aqi=g1&aql=&oq=harvey+hunt+bert&gs_rfai=\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh;
    U; Intel Mac OS X 10_6_4; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0
    Safari/533.16\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [19/Jul/2010:18:34:04
    +0200] \"GET /forgers/berthold.pdf HTTP/1.1\" 200 713723 \"http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=safari&rls=en&q=harvey+hunt
    +berthold&aq=0&aqi=g1&aql=&oq=harvey+hunt+bert&gs_rfai=\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh;
    U; Intel Mac OS X 10_6_4; de-de) AppleWebKit/533.16 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/5.0
    Safari/533.16\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n\r\nOne moth ago, Frank Wildenberg also
    read this Typophile thread, but he did not care to remove the Helvetica bugs.
    Why should he bother to correct the defective Helvetica fonts? None of the dimwits,
    who buy Linotype fonts, ever noticed the technical defects of the Helvetica font
    or of any other defective Linotype fonts.\r\n\r\nNone of the dimwitted German
    font buyers,\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique4.jpg\r\n\r\nNone
    of the dimwitted French font buyers,\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique5.jpg\r\n\r\nNone
    of the dimwitted Italian font buyers,\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique6.jpg\r\n\r\nNone
    of the dimwitted Spanish font buyers\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique7.jpg\r\n\r\never
    noticed that Linotype has been selling defective Helvetica OTF fonts during the
    past ten years. Therefore, neither Bruno Steinert nor Frank Wildenberg ever cared
    about removing these Helvetica bugs, because they know that the dimwits who buy
    Linotype fonts will never notice such Linotype font bugs.\r\n\r\nHelvetica bugs
    for ever - Linotype bugs for ever\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique8.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-01 09:05:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "A bug cannot be \"removed from\" a font. The font must be replaced, like
    a light bulb.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-01 12:29:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>A bug cannot be \"removed from\" a font. The font must be replaced,
    like a light bulb.</cite>\r\n\r\nI assume, that\u2019s a joke."
  created: '2010-08-01 13:12:53'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "This is the solution:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique9.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-01 14:48:42'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "<cite>A bug cannot be \"removed from\" a font. The font must be replaced,
    like a light bulb.</cite>\r\n\r\nHaha, good one!\r\nIf they only where that cheap
    to buy... (but not to sell ;)"
  created: '2010-08-01 16:45:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If you change the metrics so that accented letters are the same sidebearings
    as non, you may have better spacing for new work but will cause reflow problems
    of legacy documents created using the older fonts. Since no one buys Helvetica
    Oblique per se, and their are thousands of alternatives for anyone with a discerning
    enough eye to care, why would it be worth it to retrofit all those old fonts?
    The people who really care about good typography would just choose a different
    cut. Think of yourself like any merchant. You have a given amount of resources,
    do you spend them on products that have long since been passed by or do you work
    harder on new products for the current market?
  created: '2010-08-01 17:24:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "dezcom:\r\n\r\n> but will cause reflow problems \r\n\r\nThis was not the
    problem here.\r\n\r\nTechnically speaking, the \"advance width\" (sum of left
    side bearing + glyph bounding box + right side bearing) of the accented glyphs
    of the OpenType version of Helvetica remained unchanged, but the side bearings
    of the accented glyphs had been faultily and arbitrarily shifted."
  created: '2010-08-01 20:50:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I see.
  created: '2010-08-02 01:45:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I uploaded a pictorial report for font-buying dimwits:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/helvetica-forever.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-02 15:19:44'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\n1. As I already have written, the bugs are fixed in the Helvetica,
    that Adobe offers. So you should be more precise with the info in your PDF.\r\n\r\n2.
    In the preview of the website of Adobe the same problem is displayed.\r\n\r\n3.
    You cannot know, if the bug is not yet fixed in the version, Linotype provides.
    It may be, that the bug is not yet fixed in the font version, that is used by
    the type tester."
  created: '2010-08-02 17:26:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>Ten years and two months after</strong>\r\n\r\nToday is September
    1st, 2010.\r\n\r\nEven ten years and two months after releasing the OpenType font
    format, the bug is not yet fixed in the Helvetica Std OTF font sold by Linotype,
    Adobe and others.\r\n\r\nAnd what is more, this defective Helvetica Standard OpenType
    font is still heading the Font Charts.\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique1.jpg\r\n\r\nThis
    proves that dimwits crave for buying defective fonts.\r\n\r\nThe more defective
    the fonts, the more dimwitted the buyers."
  created: '2010-09-01 07:29:02'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: You are an ignorant, Uli. Have a look at my previous post. It is partly untrue,
    what you are writing here.
  created: '2010-09-01 18:29:21'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Arno Enslin:\r\n\r\n<cite>... font version, that is used by the type tester</cite>\r\n\r\nYour
    hypothesis about the Font Sampler is bizarre. Look here:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Basic-Commercial.jpg\r\n\r\nWhich
    font is displayed here according to your hypothesis?\r\n\r\nThe font Basic Commercial
    or the version Akzidenz-Grotesk?"
  created: '2010-09-02 05:53:21'
- author:
    name: Micha Mirck
  body: "It's not only the side bearings... Look at the angle\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helveticaboldoblique_4166.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-02 07:57:15'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Uli\r\n\r\nI wrote, that certain bugs are fixed in certain fonts. This
    means, that I have these certain fonts in certain versions here. And I checked
    them. So there is nothing bizzare. I did not claim anything here, which I have
    not checked, while you are talking about online typetesters.\r\n\r\nEven if Linoytpe
    fixes the most obvious bugs in Helvetica, this does not mean, that they create
    a better kerning for their fonts and fix the less obvious incorrect side sidebearings.
    You were talking about a very obvious bug.\r\n\r\nThe condition of Stempel Garamond
    is not better than the condition of Helvetica with regard to the side bearings
    and the kerning."
  created: '2010-09-02 12:08:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">It's not only the side bearings... Look at the angle\r\n\r\nWell, if \xCDIe\xE9
    were a word, I'd worry about it. Is it a word?"
  created: '2010-09-02 15:19:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Well, if \xCDIe\xE9 were a word, I'd worry about it. Is it a word?\r\n\r\nThis
    is a real word (denoting \"pupil\" in French):\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/lyceen.jpg\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-02 15:33:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The \"bug history\" of Helvetica oblique and Helvetica bold oblique is hard
    to trace. In the PostScript language beginnings in the 1980s, the oblique versions
    did not exist at all as real fonts, but were generated by slanting the upright
    version to the right by 11.5 degree with this internal command:\r\n\r\n/Erode{
    11.5 dup ... dtransform ...)\r\n\r\nThe bug-ridden OT versions of Helvetica oblique
    and Helvetica bold oblique are not these artificially slanted old PostScript versions,
    but someone tampered with the upright versions in a horrible way affecting the
    side bearings and the slanting angle as well, as correctly noted by Micha Mirck."
  created: '2010-09-02 15:42:28'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "/Erode{ 11.5 dup ... dtransform ...)\r\n\r\nSorry, not correct. I have checked
    again:\r\n\r\nHelvetica Oblique used this font matrix equivalent to 12 degree
    slant:\r\n\r\n/FontMatrix [0.001000 0 0.212557E-3 0.001 0 0] readonly def\r\n\r\nThe
    oblique font embedded the normal font with this matrix:\r\n\r\n/FontMatrix [0.001
    0 0 0.001 0 0] readonly def\r\n\r\nAnd Helvetica Narrow Oblique used this distorted
    matrix:\r\n\r\n/FontMatrix [0.00082 0 0.000174297 0.001 0 0]  def\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    Narrow Oblique was generated internally by the normal font, i.e. by Helvetica
    Roman as the upright font. The distorted font matrix slanted and squeezed the
    normal Helvetica font."
  created: '2010-09-02 16:44:17'
- author:
    name: Micha Mirck
  body: "@ Berlow. Is is imporant that it is a real word???\r\n\r\nI haven chosen
    these 4 glyphs for 2 reasons. One is the angle, but there is also another difference.
    If you would slant the e, it will look different from the e in the \xE9. "
  created: '2010-09-02 17:42:48'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Micha\r\n\r\nThe bugs are likewise fixed in Helvetica available from Adobe."
  created: '2010-09-02 19:16:46'
- author:
    name: Micha Mirck
  body: "@ Arno... \r\nyes, I know. And for me this is not about bashing LT. I'm just
    surprised about 2 things. \r\nOne; how could this error got into the font.\r\nSecond;
    This is not some obscure font that is sold maybe twice a year, and this is the
    first time read about it. I'm also a LT partner and I don't know to how many companies
    this font has been licensed to, but I have never heard anyone complaining about
    it. And remember, in Dutch we use diacritics.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-02 19:26:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<strong>H\xE9lv\xE8tic\xE2 B\xFCgs F\xF5r\xEBv\xEAr \xC5nd \xCAv\xEBr</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>1st
    \xD4ct. 2010 Thr\xE9e M\xF4nths \xC5fter</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Helvetica-oblique0.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 07:25:11'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Uli, Does the relentless and ineffectual bitterness ever get tiring for you?
  created: '2010-10-01 22:35:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "What do people do, when they find out that when they use Helvetica to print
    something in italics, that the accented letters aren't spaced properly on both
    sides?\r\n\r\nI would have thought, like Uli, that at least some licensors of
    that font would have complained to Linotype by now, and Linotype would have fixed
    the problem. After all, Helvetica is a very popular typeface. So, whatever one
    may think of Uli's posting history in general, it seems like he has a very valid
    observation this time: either Linotype doesn't fix bugs, even when its users are
    screaming bloody murder... or nobody seems to care. This is pretty fishy.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there is one possibility. Let's imagine that, instead of Helvetica from Linotype,
    it was Dutch 801 from Bitstream that had this bug. Dutch 801 happens to look just
    like Times Roman. Times Roman is a really popular typeface.\r\n\r\nWhat would
    happen, then, if someone bought Dutch 801 from Bitstream (or got it included with
    WordPerfect or Corel Draw), and experienced this shocking bug? Why, he would just
    use Times Roman as included with both the Windows operating system and OS X for
    italics in future!\r\n\r\nHello, Arial Italic. Hello, Swiss 721 Medium. Hello,
    Nimbus Sans.\r\n\r\nMaybe Linotype hasn't been selling too many copies of that
    particular font, even if other fonts for very similar typefaces are selling like
    hotcakes."
  created: '2010-10-02 01:53:17'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I wonder if Linotype even knows about this thread. You'd think they'd at least
    drop a comment or something.
  created: '2010-10-02 03:09:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1) typodermic:\r\n\r\n> I wonder if Linotype even knows about this thread.\r\n\r\nAs
    proved above (5.Jul.2010 10.17pm and 1.Aug.2010 1.05am),\r\nLinotype in Bad Homburg
    (Germany) repeatedly downloaded\r\n\r\n- this thread typophile.com/node/71858\r\n-
    the pdf document helvetica-forever.pdf\r\n- the jpg files Helvetica-oblique1.jpg,
    etc.\r\n\r\nLinotype visits my own website and the typophile website regularly.\r\n\r\nExamples
    for September (213.61.7.196 = IP of Linotype Bad Homburg):\r\n\r\n213.61.7.196
    - - [02/Sep/2010:08:54:29 +0200] \"GET /forgers/helvetica-forever.pdf HTTP/1.1\"
    200 547832 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\" \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U;
    Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.8) Gecko/20100722 Firefox/3.6.8 (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\"
    www.sanskritweb.net\r\n\r\n213.61.7.196 - - [02/Sep/2010:08:55:52 +0200] \"GET
    /temporary/Helvetica-oblique1.jpg HTTP/1.1\" 200 262205 \"http://www.typophile.com/node/71858\"
    \"Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; de; rv:1.9.2.8) Gecko/20100722 Firefox/3.6.8
    (.NET CLR 3.5.30729)\" www.sanskritweb.net\r\n\r\netc. etc. etc.\r\n\r\n2) quadibloc:\r\n\r\n>
    What do people do, <strong>when they find out</strong> that when they use Helvetica
    to print something in italics, that the accented letters aren't spaced properly
    on both sides?\r\n\r\nSince Linotype font buyers are dimwitted, <strong>they never
    find out</strong>.\r\n\r\nThat's why Bruno Steinert never cared to remove the
    Helvetica bug.\r\n\r\nWhy should you remove bugs never noticed by dimwitted customers?\r\n\r\nA
    non-dimwitted person would never buy a defective Linotype font.\r\n\r\nBut dimwitted
    Linotype customers crave to buy defective fonts.\r\n\r\nTherefore Helvetica is
    still on the Linotype bestseller list:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/de/37/fonthitlisten.html\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-02 08:00:33'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Muckraking is an honorable profession, though widely reviled. It's worth
    noting that although as the saying goes \"You attract more flies with honey than
    vinegar,\" many muckrakers eschew honey because they are too angry about the subjects
    they're writing about. Uli falls into this pattern. This approach loses him a
    certain percentage of his potential audience, who are put off by his tone and
    manners.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, the issue he is highlighting certainly does merit
    some public discourse, especially on a site dedicated to typographic quality.
    If there were even one remarkable thing about this topic, it would be worth discussing,
    but there are a handful: (1) that the sidebearings of the accented characters
    are off, (2) that the slopes are off, (3) that the unaccented characters, if their
    slope is adjusted, still does not match the distorted characters, which suggests
    (4) that the accented characters were inserted from a different font rather than
    created directly from the unaccented characters, (5) that these defects in this
    most popular and most publicly discussed typeface have nevertheless not been part
    of that discussion, and (6) that Linotype did not repair these embarrassing problems
    the moment they learned about them.\r\n\r\nUli mainly goes wrong in overgeneralizing
    his conclusions.\r\n\r\nCertainly, it is disappointing that vendor response to
    these revelations has been inconsistent, but Uli's argument would be strengthened
    if he were gracious enough to acknowledge and praise Adobe for their progress.
    Even if he wishes the main page were also adjusted, even if he wished they'd dealt
    with it sooner, even if he wished they'd never offered a defective  font in the
    first place, the fact remains that the improvement they've made is a step in the
    right direction, and it is basic good manners for anyone, let alone muckrakers,
    to praise the good as well as condemn the bad, lest they come off as merely bitter
    and aggressive. Still, his reaction doesn't change the validity of his initial
    observations. Had Uli expressed his reaction to the vendors as disappointment
    rather than calling them dimwitted, we would be hard pressed to disagree.\r\n\r\nLikewise,
    it is disappointing that after so much has been publicly said about Helvetica,
    these clumsy flaws would nevertheless have remained largely undiscussed. For example,
    compare how much more attention has been paid to the degree to which Arial's design
    is copied directly from Helvetica; that has been a widespread Internet meme, a
    topic for countless articles and blogs, yet these errors in Helvetica Oblique
    are more problematic since they actually damage the font user's ability to properly
    set text. Further, even Anglophones have had plenty of opportunity to observe
    these flaws, since we live in a multilingual world and often need to set words
    (including names) from languages that require those accents, yet we've missed
    it. We must set aside the idea that these are obscure problems that it would be
    unreasonable to expect educated font users to notice. Only those with no typographic
    pretensions at all would find these problems to be obscure, especially since in
    English grammar we set words and expressions from other languages in italic, which
    increases our odds of running into these problems.\r\n\r\nAs much as I appreciate
    the loyalty of font designers toward their customers (actual and potential), I
    think we can all agree that the vast majority of font users are genuinely ignorant
    not only of the niceties of typography but of the basics as well. Had Uli expressed
    his criticism of font users in terms of widespread ignorance about typography
    rather than being \"dimwitted,\" here too we would have found it difficult to
    argue.\r\n\r\nThe challenge for us upon encountering Uli's observations expressed
    the way he did is to sift past his anger and our own reactions to it so we can
    focus on the real typographical value he's adding to this discussion. Aside from
    the namecalling, he's right. It is a typographically disappointing state of affairs
    that such clumsy errors could be found in perhaps the most famous typeface of
    the twentieth century, that so few people would notices, and that the errors would
    not be immediately acknowledged and removed by the foundry. If Uli feels outraged
    about this and wishes to express that emotion publicly, he's certainly welcome
    to.\r\n\r\nFor my part, I feel more hopeful.\r\n\r\nFirst, Typophile is part of
    a typographic renaissance, a renewal of interest in good typography. Uli's muckraking
    on this and other issues is also a part of that renaissance, in which many of
    us are in our various ways breaking with some unfortunate practices of our recent
    past to try once again to achieve a high standard of typography. The disagreements,
    defensiveness, and taking offense occurring around these discussions are par for
    the course within any passionate community that sets itself at odds with common
    practice, and are ultimately not as important as our common goals and our progress
    toward them.\r\n\r\nSecond, I see much improvement in recent years from foundries.
    The number of foundries dedicated above all to great typography is higher than
    in recent decades. Even the foundries who justly deserve criticism for their handling
    of the specific issues under discussion, such as Linotype's handling of Helvetica
    Oblique, have shown marked improvement. Consider how much more carefully designed
    and executed Optima nova is. One is unlikely to find any of Helvetica Oblique's
    defects in Linotype's Platinum series faces. Good, conscientious typography is
    no longer to be found only in a handful of superstar designers or isolated foundries.\r\n\r\nCertainly
    there remains more room for improvement.\r\n\r\nI'm sure we'd also like to see
    Linotype repair Helvetica Oblique, not just lavish their improvements on new font
    lines. But most of all, if we want to see the state of typography in the world
    improve we need to do something about the nearly complete lack of typographic
    education for font users. More than anything else Uli wrote about this issue,
    the complete absence of public notice of these defects in such a famous typeface
    is a sign of the times. We still have a long, long way to go."
  created: '2010-10-02 18:40:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have one other question. The fonts from Linotype may look funny on the
    screen. But a post in this thread noted that the same font would line up properly
    if more advanced screen display software, which cost money, was installed. But
    the same font. If I understood the post correctly.\r\n\r\nNow, if those fonts
    don't produce bad spacing when one uses them to produce printed output on a laser
    printer, or a .PDF file - the \"end product\" where quality is critical - then
    the fact that things look funny in on-screen previews is something else that might
    be deemed inconsequential.\r\n\r\nOn top of the previous point that I raised,
    which is that the typeface Helvetica is so popular that many people will have
    the cheaper imitations instead of having purchased the original face. (Also, a
    lot of Helvetica-based typography just doesn't use italics, with bolding preferred
    for emphasis, if I remember correctly.)\r\n\r\nSo there may be other explanations
    besides people not caring."
  created: '2010-10-02 20:15:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "toad42:\r\n\r\nVery prudent*** comment.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\n*** \"witted\"
    in my parlance."
  created: '2010-10-03 08:13:17'
- author:
    name: Werfer
    picture: 111217
  body: Strange - is it only me, or this error only in the OT Std version? The OT
    Com version seems fine, or what would you people say?
  created: '2010-10-14 14:12:46'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Not wanting to rake over old coals, but it seems like this might be the best
    place to put the following question: are Helvetica Neue's numerals too short?\r\nOur
    typesetters have just put a zero into a postcode; it looked too small at certain
    zoom levels, but I know Acrobat can deceive, so I zoomed in as far as possible
    and used a dialog box as a ruler (also printed it out and measured that): the
    zero and the four are definitely <em>just slightly shorter</em> than cap height
    - the zero should at least be taller than the four, surely. Seems a bit odd to
    me.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helvzero_6294.JPG]"
  created: '2011-01-31 09:52:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> Seems a bit odd to me.\r\n\r\nBeen that way forever though. "
  created: '2011-01-31 12:01:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "dtw:\r\n\r\nIf you use Arial, \"4\" and \"T\" will have the same caps height,
    but \"0\" (= zero) is higher than \"4\" and \"T\", due to overshoot (the top of
    \"0\" is rounded).\r\n\r\nIf you use Neue Helvetica, \"T\" is higher then \"4\",
    and \"0\" (= zero) is a high as \"4\".\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 12:04:52'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: '>Uli: Well, quite. Arial in this case does what one would expect (and what
    any of us would do if we were designing a font with lining numerals), but Helv.
    doesn''t.'
  created: '2011-01-31 12:34:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "dtw:\r\n\r\nJust for fun, I checked \"Nimbus Sans Novus\", which is a URW
    clone of Neue Helvetica.\r\n\r\nIf you use Nimbus Sans Novus, \"4\" and \"T\"
    will have the same caps height, and \"0\" (= zero) is also as high as \"4\" and
    \"T\", hence no overshoot for rounded top of \"0\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 13:36:55'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "It seems a feature of any and all versions:\r\nhttp://myfonts.us/td-ri4k07"
  created: '2011-01-31 14:25:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Is there a law that says lining figures must measure the exact height of caps?  This
    just seems like a design decision to me as an attempt to reduce the dominance
    of the figures when used with mixed and lowercase text.  It makes sense to me
    with that kind of face.
  created: '2011-02-05 20:54:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Since many grotesques don\u2019t have old style figures (anyone care to explain
    why?), the lining figures are designed to \"reduce the dominance\" in text. What
    Dez said."
  created: '2011-02-05 20:59:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"many grotesques don\u2019t have old style figures (anyone care to explain
    why?)\"\r\n\r\nMy guess is that the type in question came out before opentype
    and the developers kept them as they were even with the latest releases to have
    backwards compatibility and minimize reflow issues."
  created: '2011-02-05 21:12:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\"many grotesques don\u2019t have old style figures (anyone care to explain
    why?)\"\r\n\r\nMost grotesques did not have them in metal, either. Modern typefaces
    (the \"moderns\" of the 19th century) were created with lining figures, not oldstyle
    figures. Maybe because they were primarily used for large, display settings. Or
    maybe because of some style grounds. Anyway, since grotesques are also children
    of that time, they follow that fashion."
  created: '2011-02-05 21:50:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\"many grotesques don\u2019t have old style figures (anyone care to
    explain why?)\"</cite>\r\n\r\nGrotesques don\u2019t have old style figures because
    old style figures don\u2019t work well when drawn to the proportions of grotesques.
    Old style figures need more space below the baseline than the short descenders
    of grots commonly allow. And because grots have always been common in advertising
    it\u2019s been more important that they have figures appropriate for all caps
    settings than for book typography. "
  created: '2011-02-05 22:19:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I might also note that when grotesques first emerged they were caps-only.
  created: '2011-02-05 22:35:09'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "\"many grotesques don\u2019t have old style figures (anyone care to explain
    why?)\"\r\n\r\nSome discussion here:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/63847"
  created: '2011-02-06 08:38:28'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: '>Chris (and after): fair enough. But if one were planning to make the numerals
    shorter "to reduce the dominance of the figures when used with mixed and lowercase
    text" surely one would make them <em>significantly</em> shorter - like the hybrid
    numerals we get now sometimes - rather than just marginally shorter, which <em>looks
    like</em> a mistake, even if it isn''t one... ?'
  created: '2011-02-06 17:01:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dave,\r\n\r\nRemember the bad old days of 256k limit? Remember that the early
    digital type was taken from the original drawing for metal type?\r\n\r\nThere
    were reasons like:\r\n\r\n\u2022 You didn't have enough slots for multiple sets
    of figures and Expert sets were but a small portion of the pie;\r\n\u2022 Better
    to then have one figure size as a compromise than no boat in the water;\r\n\u2022
    Legacy drawings were ready to go compared with all the corporate decisions needed
    to add more;\r\n\u2022 The first one to jump the pond wins! Meaning LinoType/Adobe
    were quick-off-the-mark with ready to roll accepted and proven favorite types,
    which would maintain continuity with what users already were accustomed to;\r\n\u2022
    \"Do it now\" was better than \"Should have done it and missed the gravy-train
    years\" of selling type. Business decisions drive business, not best practices."
  created: '2011-02-06 18:24:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Sounds very much like webfonts nowadays, Dez.
  created: '2011-02-06 20:59:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I'll bet you are right, Frode.
  created: '2011-02-06 21:59:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I always find myself wanting to do stuff that people say can't be done, be
    it grotesque osf's or anything else for that matter. Great to see a two-story
    italic a in Carter Sans, Dan!
  created: '2011-02-06 23:47:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Oh, thank Matthew! He drew that italic a. I don't know if I would have been
    bold enough to make it double story. I do like the way it looks, though.
  created: '2011-02-07 12:37:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "This thread was started one year ago in July 2010.\r\n\r\nToday, one year
    later in August 2011, I checked:\r\n\r\n<strong>The Helvetica Bug is still there:</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique.jpg\r\n\r\nI
    would have been surprised, if \"Se\xF1or Wildenberg\" or anyone else at the Linotype
    outfit had removed the Helvetica Bug during the past years. Nobody at Linotype
    cares. Why should they care? Consider what I stated at the top of this thread:
    <cite>\"One of the most striking peculiarities of font users is the fact that
    most font users do not care about the most elementary quality requirements of
    fonts.\"</cite> So, why should Linotype and other font makers care to remove font
    bugs?\r\n\r\nFor your own Helvetica Bug experiments, consult these files:\r\n\r\n<strong>Font
    Bug Website:</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.linotype.com/de/45334/helveticaoblique-schrift.html\r\n\r\nSelect
    \"Helvetica oblique OpenType Standard CFF\"\r\n\r\n<strong>Accented Test Text:</strong>\r\n\r\nSe\xF1or
    W\xECld\xE8nb\xE8rg\r\nD\xEDrecci\xF3n G\xE9n\xE9ral\r\nH\xEAlv\xEAtic\xE2 Cr\xE2p
    F\xF4rever\r\n\r\n<strong>Last-Year Screen Dumps:</strong>\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique.gif\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique0.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique1.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique2.gif\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique3.gif\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique4.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique5.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique6.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique7.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique8.jpg\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/Helvetica-oblique9.jpg\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-22 11:35:18'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Well done Uli, have a biscuit. I am surely not the only one waiting with baited
    breath for the inevitable 2 year update.
  created: '2011-08-23 20:47:51'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: Ah, Uli, he's been quiet of late.  I almost miss his rants.
  created: '2011-08-23 23:13:34'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Keep going, Uli. I'm really curious about how this story will end. Fixing
    this bug would take me, and probably any font designer a few minutes.
  created: '2011-09-08 04:45:09'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Typodermic:\r\n\r\nI think you could fix the bug <strong>in less than one
    minute</strong> by copying the correct font metrics values from the correct PostScript
    font to the defective OpenType font.\r\n\r\nCorrect PS T1 font: LT_51251.pfb,
    LT_51251.pfm, LT_51251.afm\r\nDefective OTF font: HelveticaLTStd-Obl.otf"
  created: '2011-09-08 14:56:48'
date: '2010-07-01 21:20:01'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica oblique - Helvetica bugs for ever

---
