---
author:
  name: Jongseong
  picture: 111444
body: "John Wells's Phonetic Blog has a [[http://phonetic-blog.blogspot.com/2010/07/calibri-and-cambria.html|new
  post]] about the design of phonetic symbols in Calibri and Cambria. John Wells is
  a British phonetician and editor of the Longman Pronunciation Dictionary.\r\n\r\nHere
  is what he has to say:\r\n<cite>Calibri (like the font most of you will see in this
  blog) has a small cap i without the serifs it really needs for good legibility.
  It also has too much space before the stress mark, after the \u0261 and after the
  length mark. In Cambria the serifs and stress mark are satisfactory, but the character
  spacing in the word \u0261\u0251\u02D0dn\u0329 still leaves a lot to be desired.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
  'small cap i' is actually \u026A, the phonetic symbol for the vowel of 'kit'. I
  have to agree that even in a sans serif design where neither I nor the small cap
  i have serifs, this phonetic symbol needs serifs as they are an integral part of
  the symbol's identity. Lucida Sans Unicode is an example where the capital I has
  no serifs but the symbol \u026A does. Without serifs, I have trouble reading it
  as anything other than the Turkish dotless i.\r\n\r\nBased on the samples on the
  blog, the spacing does look problematic and I agree with his assessments. I don't
  know how much of this is the inherent spacing and how much is the rendering and
  software used with possibly limited kerning support.\r\n\r\nIf you have any insights
  to share about the designs from the perspective of type designers to an audience
  of phoneticians, I would encourage you to comment on the blog itself, and we could
  also have a Typophile-specific discussion here."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Will log a bug against Calibri. Can't repro the spacing of Cambria. Will
    investigate. \r\n\r\nThanks, Si"
  created: '2010-07-06 16:17:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The spacing problems seem to be a result of rounding errors in Wells\u2019
    rendering environment. This is how the spacing appears in GDI under Vista:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cambriagadn_3686.png]\r\n\r\n[Note
    that the below combining mark touches the bottom of the letter at some sizes.
    Correcting this would require size-specific adjustment of GPOS mark positioning
    data. This can be done in VOLT, but it is a major amount of work.]"
  created: '2010-07-06 18:22:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "And Calibri:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calibrigadn_5123.png]\r\n\r\nI
    quite agree regarding the phonetic smallcap \u026A. [Actually, I lean more and
    more to the view that the I in sans serif fonts, especially screen fonts, should
    have bars top and bottom to aid legibility. These should not be thought of as
    serifs: the I with barred terminals is a well-attested, indeed common form in
    writing.]"
  created: '2010-07-06 18:30:50'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "<em>Actually, I lean more and more to the view that the I in sans serif fonts,
    especially screen fonts, should have bars top and bottom to aid legibility. These
    should not be thought of as serifs: the I with barred terminals is a well-attested,
    indeed common form in writing.</em>\r\n\r\nYou'd get quite a bit of resistance
    to that, John, from users of sans serif typefaces, many of whom find the barred
    <strong>I</strong> quite ugly in an otherwise simple-looking design. I think it
    depends on which is more important in a particular context: character distinction
    or smooth flow. Within familiar words, the bar-less <strong>I</strong> is often
    a much more pleasing form (depending, always, on the typeface's overall design),
    but where letters and numbers and perhaps symbols will be mixed together (as in
    UK and Canadian postal codes, or in serial numbers and similar codes), then the
    need to be absolutely sure whether that's an <strong>I</strong>, an <strong>l</strong>,
    or a <strong>1</strong> trumps beauty.\r\n\r\nI think that if you include both
    forms in a font, the barred <strong>I</strong> will usually need to sit in a wider
    space than the bar-less <strong>I</strong>. Otherwise, one of them will look wrong.\r\n\r\nJohn\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 18:44:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John, I agree that the barred I looks less clean and in all-caps words it
    tends to disrupt spacing. I'm thinking mainly in terms of screen legibility. Of
    course, with OTL we could contextually vary the form of the I based on proximity
    to l or 1. :)\r\n\r\nMy main point is that a barred I is not a serif\u2019d I,
    so while there may be aesthetic and functional objections to its use in sans serif
    fonts there shouldn't be any categorical objection."
  created: '2010-07-06 19:02:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I agree that the barred I looks less clean and in all-caps words it tends
    to disrupt spacing.\r\n\r\nI-k-ea what you're saying ;-) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 19:38:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "About the \"barred\" I, I find interesting the specific use of it developed
    in a specialised context such as comic book lettering:\r\nhttp://www.blambot.com/grammar.shtml"
  created: '2010-07-07 21:32:49'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: 'It seems that Calibri lacks 203F: UNDERTIE symbol. Possibly Cambria does
    too.'
  created: '2011-12-27 22:06:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Doesn't look like that code-point in any of the usual suspects. How/where
    is it used?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2011-12-27 22:36:08'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'This wikipedia article on French liaison is filled with them: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liaison_(French)]] '
  created: '2011-12-28 00:11:10'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: And also the above mentioned Longman Pronunciation Dictionary.
  created: '2011-12-28 09:06:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks, adding it to the \"list\".\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2011-12-28 14:44:44'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I second the request for the undertie symbol. 2040: CHARACTER TIE would also
    be welcome (it's the same shape, only flipped and higher up). When I'm working
    on Google Docs or posting comments online and want to use the undertie symbol,
    I'm forced to use the underscore as a hack because of the lack of font support.\r\n\r\nI
    use the undertie primarily for pronunciation transcriptions of English (for optional
    compression of syllables, just like the Longman Pronunciation Dictionary) and
    French (for liaison).\r\n\r\nIf the tie symbols do end up being added to Calibri
    and Cambria, I hope they are not designed too wide. In most fonts that do have
    the tie symbols, they are excessively wide, perhaps because out of ignorance of
    what the tie symbols are used for, designers have simply used the shape for the
    ligature ties (which need to be wide because they go over two letters) without
    modification.\r\n\r\nIt won't do to have an undertie taking up the space of two
    letters. It would draw way too much attention to itself. The undertie needs to
    be comparable in width with a single space or a period. To illustrate how narrow
    the undertie should be, here is a screen grab from the CD-ROM version of the Longman
    Pronunciation Dictionary:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cambriaundertie_3436.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-28 19:39:31'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Regarding a point raised earlier in the thread, I discovered a while ago
    that there are situations where the bars of the phonetic symbol \u026A are indispensable
    even in a sans design.\r\n\r\nPhoneticians don't always use unmodified phonetic
    symbols, but sometimes combine them with diacritics that are also part of the
    IPA. This is especially important for narrow transcriptions.\r\n\r\nI was exploring
    ways to express sound variations in different accents of English with shorthand
    symbols in a way consistent with IPA, and one of the best ways I could come up
    with for one instance was to use the IPA centralization diacritic, the diaeresis,
    with the phonetic symbols /i/ and /\u026A/, to produce /\xEF/ and /\u026A\u0308/
    respectively (doesn't seem to display properly, but image below). However, this
    pair would not be distinguishable if \u026A lacked the bars.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/i-vs-i_6631.png]\r\n\r\nYou
    can also see that [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vowel|Wikipedia]] uses \u026A
    with a diaeresis on its vowel chart, because there is no dedicated unmodified
    phonetic symbol for that particular vowel. So this sort of combination with diacritics
    isn't entirely rare."
  created: '2011-12-28 19:59:42'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "One other annoying thing in phonetics is the esh symbol \u0283. This is a
    particular pain for good overtie and undertie implementations, since the most
    pedantic representation in IPA of the initial sound in \u2018church\u2019 is t\u0361\u0283
    or t\u035C\u0283.\r\n\r\nI also somewhat dislike the \u0283 design in most fonts
    that have it, including Cambria which is otherwise my primary face in my documents.
    The \u0283 is always treated as though it\u2019s a cousin to the integral sign
    \u222B, so that it has either a perfectly upright stem or a slightly forward-tilted
    stem. This is wrong, however. Instead the esh \u0283 is more of a cousin to s
    and S. The versions in fonts designed for linguists, like Gentium and Doulos SIL,
    have a slight backward tilt to the stem with a bit more compensatory curl in the
    top and bottom arms. This enhances the S similarity and also makes it less troublesome
    for kerning and getting the advance width right. The associated symbols like \u0284,
    \u0286, \u0285, \u1D8B, \u1D98, and \u1DB4 all benefit from the same design considerations.
    The esh \u0283 also has some problems with superscript-level spacing modifiers
    like \u02BC (U+02BC), so that the symbol for the ejective postalveolar affricate
    t\u0283\u02BC (or t\u035C\u0283\u02BC or t\u0361\u0283\u02BC if you\u2019re especially
    picky) ends up having \u02BC collide with the upper arm of \u0283 in most faces
    I\u2019ve seen.\r\n\r\nIn context the difference between dotless \u0131 and small-cap
    \u026A is not terribly important because the two are basically mutually exclusive.
    A lot of linguists don\u2019t really know or care that there is a difference.
    Diacritics can cause problems because the dotless \u0131 is then the same as regular
    i since the tittle is normally deleted in phonetics use.\r\n\r\nCambria really
    does a great job on a lot of Latin diacritics, which is why it\u2019s my main
    font. I particularly like that \u1E35 and x\u0331 have the same consistent height
    for U+0331, for example. Also Cambria\u2019s Greek blends well with the Latin,
    which is essential for replicating old transcriptions like d\xF9h\u03AFd\u03B9n\u03ACx\u0323
    and x\u02BC\u03CDx\u02BCu-\u0262a. But for phonetics I use Charis SIL as a companion
    font, it has about the same weight and when set off in brackets or slashes it
    doesn\u2019t look out of place in a sea of Cambria.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve never used
    Calibri extensively simply because it gets the position of U+0331 wrong in comparison
    with the precomposed forms, so that the macron below is higher beneath \u1E35
    than it is beneath x\u0331. That makes the Tlingit word tu\u1E35x\u0331\u02BC\xE9
    \u2018anus\u2019 look crappy."
  created: '2011-12-28 20:19:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>The \u0283 is always treated as though it\u2019s a cousin to the integral
    sign \u222B, so that it has either a perfectly upright stem or a slightly forward-tilted
    stem.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, the integral sign is a cousin of the S, it stands for
    a limit of sums, and its shape in the Russian mathematical typography shows it,
    as you can see in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integral_symbol|Wiki on the
    Integral Symbol]] of which here is a grab [12K]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/integral_5497.png]"
  created: '2011-12-28 22:24:07'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "The integral sign has more freedom in its shape since it doesn't have the
    constraints of the phonetic esh symbol. The latter has to work as a phonetic symbol
    alongside the lowercase latin letters and similar symbols that make up the various
    phonetic alphabets, and in addition it can have diacritics.\r\n\r\nMany of the
    diacritics used in the IPA go below the letter they modify. If the letter has
    a descender, the same diacritic is used above the letter. So the 'ring below'
    diacritic for devoicing normally goes below the letter as in 'd\u0325', but it
    goes above the letter as in '\u0261\u030A'. But the esh symbol has both a descender
    and an ascender, so it's tricky what to do with such diacritics (the 'ring below'
    wouldn't make sense since the esh stands for a sound which is already voiceless,
    but we could combine it with a 'caron below' for voicing). One solution I've seen
    puts the diacritic as a sort of a spacing modifier after the esh symbol, not under
    it. The trouble is that some of these diacritics are only encoded as combining
    diacritics in Unicode and not as spacing modifiers, so you have to cheat by combining
    the diacritic with a space."
  created: '2011-12-28 23:16:47'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>If the letter has a descender, the same diacritic is used above the
    letter.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn this entry of James' Tlingit dictionary, I see the diacritics
    below the g.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xg2_5849.png]"
  created: '2011-12-28 23:44:30'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Putting the diacritics above letters with descenders is a convention, but
    not a rigid one, and I don't think it applies to all diacritics equally. The underscore
    diacritic would only look natural below a letter, for example.
  created: '2011-12-29 00:05:51'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "I tried to convince some of the orthographic community to accept \u1E21 in
    place of g\u0331 and the response ranged between \u201Cmeh\u201D and \u201Care
    you also planning to eat kittens and immolate our infants for Moloch the vast
    stone god of war?\u201D. So, not really a great reception. It is also hard to
    get existing software to believe that G\u0331 could be an uppercase pairing with
    \u1E21. The \u01E5 (U+01E5 \u2018Latin Small Letter G with Stroke\u2019) is a
    potential option to avoid g\u0331 since most handwritten forms of g\u0331 actually
    have the macron crossing the descender. But \u01E5 case pairs with \u01E4 (U+01E4)
    which is distinctly unsatisfactory, and some fonts have the stroke of \u01E5 crossing
    the stem into the bowl rather than across the descender. One attempt by Keri Edwards
    was to use G\u0331 and \u0262\u0331 so the lowercase was actually \u0262 (U+0262
    \u2018Latin Letter Small Capital G\u2019) with the U+0331 \u2018Combining Macron
    Below\u2019 diacritic, but that also breaks case pairing and is unpleasant to
    some people. So Tlingit in the end has stuck with g\u0331. It works pretty well
    in a lot of fonts, particularly with whatever the defaults are on Facebook in
    most browsers, and also in a few of the free email websites. As you can see here,
    when web designers try to be smart about font-face selection they usually end
    up with g\u0331 being broken somehow.\r\n\r\nBut that situation is an orthography
    and not phonetic transcription. In phonetic transcription you either go with what
    the IPA has recommended, which is above with descenders like \u0261\u030A, or
    you do whatever you want because your particular transcription tradition has no
    fixed rules.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, the integral sign is in practice a completely different
    animal from esh \u0283. The esh has to blend in with the rest of the Latin-ish
    letters. It also has to have good default spacing and kerning because phonetic
    symbols aren\u2019t handled with a fancy layout engine like those used for mathematics.
    For phonetics the esh should ideally have a shape similar to the Russian integral
    example posted above because that harmonizes well with the rest of the Latin letters
    in running text."
  created: '2011-12-29 00:52:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I agree that math fonts and text fonts have different requirements. As for
    integral signs, here is one that slants backwards (taken from Landau et Lifchitz,
    M\xE9canique (Mechanics), Moscow).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/backint_4443.png]\r\n(the
    bar at the left comes from an absolute value, and I kept it to make sure everything
    is vertically aligned)."
  created: '2011-12-29 02:19:03'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Very nice integral Michel :) one day I'll added Russian-like integral to XITS
    math font. It already has upright integrals (inherited from STIX) as alternate.
  created: '2011-12-29 11:19:56'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Two things on my wish list for phonetics fonts are slashed zero instead of
    a slashed circle for \u2205 U+2205 \u2018Empty Set\u2019 and a gelded question
    mark alternate for \u0294 U+0294 \u2018Latin Letter Glottal Stop\u2019.\r\n\r\nThe
    first wish is because slashed zero is a far more common null symbol in linguistics
    than the mathematical practice of a slashed circle (which comes from <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolas_Bourbaki\">Nicholas
    Bourbaki</a> as I recall). It\u2019s available as an alternate for U+0030 \u2018Digit
    Zero\u2019 in many fonts (the OpenType zero option), but as far as I know it\u2019s
    never been implemented in any font as an alternate for \u2205 U+2205 \u2018Empty
    Set\u2019. Currently I use some TeX shenanigans to get the displayed form as 0
    in PDF, but the plain text version in the PDF as \u2205 so that it\u2019s semantically
    correct for text processing. That\u2019s an ugly kludge. Many (most?) linguists
    are less typographically and technically inclined than I am and hence they abuse
    \xD8 or \xF8 because these look somewhat better in text than the slashed circle
    of \u2205 found in most typefaces nowadays. Cambria tried hard to get away from
    the geometric circle with its \u2018slashed ovoid\u2019, but I think in the end
    it has pleased nobody. (I like it, but I still prefer the slashed zero more. A
    few mathematicians I\u2019ve talked to still prefer the circle more.)\r\n\r\nThe
    gelded question mark hearkens back to the original development of the glottal
    stop symbol. I don\u2019t know who first invented it, but after \u02BC was used
    for a while someone wanted a more visually obvious symbol so they started using
    a question mark without the ball (hence \u2018gelded\u2019). The IPA community
    invented the form with a stem extending to the baseline and a serifed base, but
    the gelded form is still in use, though mostly only in handwriting nowadays. To
    properly replicate forms from older documents a gelded alternate for \u0294 U+0294
    \u2018Latin Letter Glottal Stop\u2019 is really appropriate, but so far I know
    of no fonts that have implemented it. I supposed that variants of \u0295, \u0296,
    \u02A1, and \u02A2 might be desirable too, but I think just offering the alternate
    for \u0294 would be a good enough gesture. Anyone implementing a modern face like
    the Scotch Modern used by the US Government Printing Office would be obliged to
    make the default glottal stop a gelded question mark for historical veracity.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing that I like about the SIL fonts (Charis SIL & Doulos SIL) and Gentium that
    I haven\u2019t seen much support for elsewhere are the slightly larger and heavier
    variants of the apostrophic modifier letters, U+02BB \u2013 U+02BD and U+02EE.
    Most fonts simply duplicate the shapes of the quotation marks, but the modifier
    letters are properly alphabetic letters rather than punctuation. If they are ever
    so slightly distinct then they are more easily differentiated at the end of quotations,
    e.g. \u2018x\u02BC\xFAx\u02BC\u2019 or \u201Cx\u02BC\xFAx\u02BC\u201D. One solution,
    used by Gentium, is to shift the vertical position and change the overall size
    of the modifier letters a slight bit. The SIL fonts instead change the weight
    and length of the modifier letters so that they fill the surrounding space a bit
    more and thus fit better into the word shape (bouma). On this forum the differentiation
    seems to be an accident since Georgia doesn\u2019t include the spacing modifier
    letters, so that they are pulled from some other font by browser and layout engine
    magic."
  created: '2011-12-29 20:47:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love seeing \"bouma\" in a thread I wasn't in!\r\nAs you were.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-29 22:57:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are, side by side, a zero and an empty set (<code>$\\emptyset$</code>)
    in the Computer Modern font (the default in TeX and LaTeX). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/empty_6060.png]\r\nThus
    the Computer Modern <code>\\emptyset</code> is not quite a slashed zero. I don't
    like it, instead I use <code>\\varnothing</code> given by the <code>amssymb</code>
    package that gives me the slashed circle. On the other hand, using the slashed
    circle for a linguistics null symbol looks inappropriate. In any case, shouldn't
    linguists have their own symbol? "
  created: '2011-12-29 23:40:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>One thing that I like about the SIL fonts (Charis SIL & Doulos SIL)
    and Gentium that I haven\u2019t seen much support for elsewhere are the slightly
    larger and heavier variants of the apostrophic modifier letters, U+02BB \u2013
    U+02BD and U+02EE. Most fonts simply duplicate the shapes of the quotation marks,
    but the modifier letters are properly alphabetic letters rather than punctuation.</cite>\r\n\r\nBest
    I can remember, these are raised and turned commas. In a number of fonts today,
    the apostrophe is smaller than a comma; in these cases anyway, making them larger
    (as in a raised or turned comma) just makes sense.\r\n\r\nAs a typesetter, one
    problem I always encounter is whether to use the proper Unicode characters, U+02BB
    & U+02BD, or U+2018 & U+2019 (single open & close quotes). The reason is ebooks
    are getting to where they are almost always made with university press books,
    and the spacing modifiers are absent in most fonts. iPAD & Kindle won't display
    them; and in spite of the EPUB3 specification, Apple's big concern seems to destroying
    flash. No worry about small things like having the right characters, or allowing
    embedding fonts. \r\n\r\nThe other reason is interior designers never check to
    see if proper characters are in the fonts they choose, so if the EULA forbids
    it, you can't even make up the correct character for the print edition. Or you
    take it from another font, which takes time, money, and hand-fitting every occurrence.
    Not likely.\r\n\r\nThese gripes are pedestrian compared to what is being discussed,
    but it is an issue once you get beyond the manuscript."
  created: '2011-12-30 04:01:48'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "<blockquote>[Michel Boyer:] On the other hand, using the slashed circle for
    a linguistics null symbol looks inappropriate. In any case, shouldn't linguists
    have their own symbol?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSemantically the linguistic null symbol
    is the same as the mathematical empty set. Both are used to mean \u2018nothing\u2019
    or something similar. But typographically they are very much distinct. From a
    Unicode perspective this means that the two are to be identified as the same character,
    and hence the problem is left to font design. It\u2019s similar to the language-specific
    issues regarding letters like italic U+0442 \u2018Cyrillic Small Letter Te\u2019
    in Serbian versus other Cyrillic, or whether a dollar sign should have one vertical
    bar or two. In these sorts of cases the meaning of the symbol is the same, it\u2019s
    just the shape that differs. But where OpenType provides contextual indicators
    of languages, there is no such indication for scientific disciplines. I\u2019m
    not suggesting that such things are necessary, just that the parallel between
    the two situations breaks down there.\r\n\r\nLinguists do generally prefer TeX\u2019s
    default <code>$\\emptyset$</code>, and mathematicians generally seem to like <code>$\\varnothing</code>.
    (La)TeX makes this distinction explicitly available, but Unicode does not. I actually
    side with Unicode on this, though obviously I bemoan the lack of differentiation
    outside of the TeXosphere.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>[charles_e:] As a typesetter, one
    problem I always encounter is whether to use the proper Unicode characters, U+02BB
    & U+02BD, or U+2018 & U+2019 (single open & close quotes).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    difference between the modifier letters (U+02BB \u2013 U+02BD and U+02EE) versus
    the open and close quotes (U+2018 & U+2019) is not really in their appearance.
    Instead, the modifier letters in Unicode belong to the Lm (Modifier_Letter) category
    and hence they are meant to be processed like alphabetic characters (A\u2013Z,
    etc.). That means that they are part of the language\u2019s alphabet rather than
    being accessory symbols like punctuation. In contrast, U+2018 and U+2019 are in
    the Pi and Pf categories respectively (Initial_Punctuation and Final_Punctuation).
    They are punctuation characters just like the ampersand, hyphen, question mark,
    octothorpe, and so forth.\r\n\r\nThis distinction between modifier letter and
    punctuation is crucial but largely invisible. The modifier letters should be treated
    just like any other letter in the language\u2019s alphabet. So if a modifier letter
    is part of a digraph then it shouldn\u2019t be divided for hyphenation, for the
    same reason that you wouldn\u2019t divide <em>ch</em> as <em>c-h</em> in English.
    It\u2019d be equally wrong to divide Tlingit\u2019s <em>ts\u02BC</em> as <em>ts-\u02BC</em>.
    Although the idea of hyphenating a quotation mark seems strange, there are other
    contexts where the difference is important. In American-style punctuation practice
    it\u2019s possible to reorder the punctuation symbols at the end of a quotation,
    so that commas and periods should be shifted to the left of a quotation mark:
    <em>\u2018... foo<strong>\u2019,</strong> he said</em> should become <em>\u2018...
    foo<strong>,\u2019</strong> he said</em>. For modifier letters this rearrangement
    is absolutely prohibited: <em>... t\u02BCooch<strong>\u02BC,</strong> y\xE9i yaawa\u1E35aa</em>
    should never ever become <em>... t\u02BCooch<strong>,\u02BC</strong> y\xE9i yaawa\u1E35aa</em>
    because that latter form is nonsense in Tlingit. Modifier letters are simply not
    punctuation, and should never be confused with punctuation. They are instead inherent
    parts of a letter or word, just like all the other alphabetic characters. (Your
    mileage may vary regarding apostrophes in English and French used to mark elision
    of letters, or English\u2019s possessive suffix <em>-\u2019s</em>.)\r\n\r\nNow,
    most linguists don\u2019t make this distinction in Unicode because they don\u2019t
    know about it. Or rather, they don\u2019t know that they know \u2013 they have
    an <em>implicit</em> understanding of the distinction but don\u2019t realize that
    Unicode actually puts this distinction into practice. Nearly every linguist I\u2019ve
    ever met is ignorant of Unicode\u2019s fine structure, they are only concerned
    with \u201Cis there a character in the \u2018symbols\u2019 dialog box that looks
    like what I want?\u201D. So it\u2019s the typesetter\u2019s job to figure out
    from the submitted typescript that there should be a distinction between one kind
    of apostrophe symbol used for punctuation and another kind of apostrophe symbol
    used alphabetically. Often this is obvious, but sometimes you have to ask. The
    simplest question to ask the author is whether a particular apostrophe is part
    of a letter or word, or whether it\u2019s just punctuation like in English. You
    may get back an essay on ejectives or glottal stops or something, or you may get
    a nastygram saying \u201Cit\u2019s there for a reason, don\u2019t change it, dammit\u201D,
    but in either case you\u2019ll get feedback which is better than mangling the
    results and being chewed out later."
  created: '2011-12-31 21:19:50'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote><em>[jcrippen] Semantically the linguistic null symbol is the
    same as the mathematical empty set. Both are used to mean \u2018nothing\u2019
    or something similar. </em></blockquote>\r\nThe empty set is not nothing. It is
    the set {}, the set that contains no element. In particular, there is a unique
    function from the empty set to the empty set: that is the function whose graph
    is the empty set. That gives a combinatorial \"proof\" that zero to the power
    zero is equal to 1 (after a little set theory).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-12-31 22:26:33'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Well yes, to be precise it is the set of nothing. And since linguistics is
    founded partly on set theory, the linguistic zero usually means the same thing.
    So if you have a set of morphemes {<em>-p</em>, <em>-t</em>, <em>-k</em>, and
    <em>-q</em>} that occur in a paradigm, you can also analyze the set as including
    an empty set. That\u2019s because by definition the empty set exists in any set,
    including the empty set itself. This empty set can then considered to be an empty
    morpheme, <em>-\u2205</em>. Or you may instead want to define the empty morpheme
    as an element distinct from the empty set, depending on your theory of morphology.
    In that case the other morphemes are made of elements taken from the set of all
    possible sounds in the language, and the null morpheme is the empty set that is
    included in that set of all sounds. That leaves a distinction between a zero morpheme
    and a lack of a morpheme, which is important in some morphological theories.\r\n\r\nSo
    linguistic nulls are the nothings of a category, just like mathematical nulls;
    indeed, they are mathematical nulls because linguistic analysis is just another
    application of mathematics. But all of this is pedantic from a typographic and
    character set standpoint. The basic issue for typographers is that they\u2019re
    represented by the same character, though not necessarily with the same presentation
    form (font variant, etc.)."
  created: '2011-12-31 23:09:28'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The empty set is a subset of {-p, -t, -k,  -q}, it is not an element of that
    set. The empty set \u2205 contains no element. The set {\u2205} contains one element
    and in the Von Neumann notation for integers, it represents the integer 1. Similarly,
    the set {\u2205, {\u2205}} represents 2 etc. With the word \"contains\" you keep
    a dangerous ambiguity: is it an element? is it a subset? You cannot add the empty
    set to a set without changing it unless it already contains the empty set as an
    element; \u2205 is not an element of \u2205, and it is not an element of  {-p,
    -t, -k,  -q} either.\r\n\r\nWhat I know of linguistics (way before Government
    and binding) uses rewrite systems (still in use in computer science). In such
    systems, a variable may be rewritten as a sequence of variables and letters in
    some alphabet. When the right-hand side contains nothing, we use the empty string,
    denoted \u03B5 or \u03BB or \u039B but never \u2205, even if the right-hand side
    looks like \"nothing\". For instance the grammar X -> \u03B5, X ->Xa  generates
    the set of strings {\u03B5, a, aa, aaa, aaaa, ... }. Would you ever use \u2205
    for \u03B5? If not, why is it more justified with morphemes?\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-01 00:00:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>The difference between the modifier letters (U+02BB \u2013 U+02BD and
    U+02EE) versus the open and close quotes (U+2018 & U+2019) is not really in their
    appearance. Instead, the modifier letters in Unicode belong to the Lm (Modifier_Letter)
    category and hence they are meant to be processed like alphabetic characters (A\u2013Z,
    etc.). That means that they are part of the language\u2019s alphabet rather than
    being accessory symbols like punctuation. In contrast, U+2018 and U+2019 are in
    the Pi and Pf categories respectively (Initial_Punctuation and Final_Punctuation).
    They are punctuation characters just like the ampersand, hyphen, question mark,
    octothorpe, and so forth.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou miss my point. As long as the task
    is limited to getting ink on paper, there is not much of a problem -- ink does
    not preserve character encodings. Or, if your purpose is limited to academics
    circulating texts privately, the problems are manageable. \r\n\r\nWhen you move
    to publishing material, the problems are rather larger, and decisions more complicated.
    Now the correct Unicode encoding is important. Here are the problems: (1) Few
    type designers are willing to include character sets with limited use. (2) Few
    font publishers are willing to allow their fonts to be modified to make up the
    needed characters. (3) Few people who select typefaces for published material
    are willing to use fonts that do include the proper Unicode character. (3) has
    two forks: (a) the designers who select fonts for ink on paper (rather less of
    a problem), and  (b) the ebook reader device manufacturers, who limit the typefaces
    their devices will display.\r\n\r\nSo, someone preparing these files -- the typesetter
    -- is faced with the decision about which character to use. Skipping the problems
    ink on paper, every book I've worked on in the past two years has required an
    eventual ebook. The choice one faces is to use punctuation characters, which are
    wrong and limit searching a file, or using the correct character, which will be
    searchable, but will not display.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-01 14:31:51'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "<blockquote>[charles_e:] The choice one faces is to use punctuation characters,
    which are wrong and limit searching a file, or using the correct character, which
    will be searchable, but will not display.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, this is the
    exact problem that I have faced, and which I have kludged around with by having
    TeX display one character but embed a different one in the text stream of a PDF.
    The <code>hyperref</code> package includes a command <code>\\texorpdfstring</code>
    to do this. It\u2019s a nasty kludge though, and it\u2019d be better if fonts
    included characters with appropriate variant forms. I\u2019m not a font designer
    and not willing to abuse EULAs on existing fonts, so I haven\u2019t fixed this
    problem for myself. It\u2019d be nice if either EULAs were a bit more flexible
    for these not-entirely-unusual circumstances, and/or if font designers could ask
    around a bit more about potential uses of their works. It\u2019s not possible
    to please everybody, but it <em>is</em> possible to try."
  created: '2012-01-01 21:18:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As the state of Israel can attest, a policy of ambiguity can be useful...\r\nBut
    it doesn't win you trusted friends, and I think a foundry needs that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 00:44:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nConsider that it isn't the EULA, but the permission to modify
    that is the issue. For example, Adobe gives the end user permission to modify
    fonts for one's own use. It is in Adobe's FAQ. It counts as one of the permissible
    copies. But the Adobe EULA at least use to forbid modifications. It would seem
    the specifics of the FAQ override a portion of the EULA, as would written permission
    from the font publisher.\r\n\r\nMy belief is the EULA is/was an attempt to stop
    piracy, and modification for one's own use is only occasionally seen as an extra
    revenue stream. Anyway, if you ask for and receive permission, modification is
    allowable. The large font publishers have, for a while now, refused to give permission.
    Back in the mid-1900s, they sometimes did. Well, that's two or more owners ago
    for Linotype, and at least a couple of owners ago for Monotype. FontFont use to
    occasionally grant permission when they first moved into the States. But forget
    them as of 2012.\r\n\r\nAdobe's policy solves the print problem, and probably
    the PDF problem, but not the ebook problem, until font embedding (EPUB3) is implemented
    by Apple and Amazon. Fat chance, today. And the font publishers may want to rule
    separately on web fonts. At this point, who can say? But some won't and that's
    all it takes.\r\n\r\nBTW, there are other small foundries/font publishers who
    will give permission. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 00:47:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I sort of agree, hrant. Soon, layout programs will perhaps include a font
    editing program inside. They already have glyph scaling (non-proportional). All
    we need is weight changing, and perhaps character addition. I find it absurd that
    you can \"modify\" a font with one kind of software, but not another. I know,
    it is a piracy issue. BTW, there is a small discussion of this in my chapter in
    Rich's forthcoming book. Are you sure you won't buy a copy? Still going to use
    the library? ;-)\r\n\r\n(I'll allow the discussion is too short to be worth the
    cost. There are other points discussed...)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 00:56:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The books I check out from UCLA nobody else ever wants for\r\nsome reason.
    So I just keep renewing them online. I've had some\r\nof them over ten years.
    Sometimes I hit their 99 renewal limit, at\r\nwhich point I have to call in, act
    dumb and get it reset to zero.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-02 01:08:13'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Concerning the slashed zero shape for the empty set, here is what the <a
    href=\"http://www.unicode.org/reports/index.html#reports\">Unicode Technical Report</a>
    #25, Unicode Support for Mathematics (<a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr25/tr25-12.docx\">docx,
    328K</a>) says about it:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nA widespread alternate symbol
    for the empty set is a slashed digit zero. This can be encoded as U+0030 DIGIT
    ZERO followed by U+0338 COMBINING LONG SOLIDUS OVERLAY.\r\n</blockquote>\r\nMichel"
  created: '2012-01-02 14:43:28'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: "<blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks, adding it to the \"list\".\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that it hasn't been added to the latest versions of Calibri and Cambria.\r\n\r\nIf
    you select some text with the character, you'll get it in MS Mincho font."
  created: '2012-08-25 10:22:05'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: Has anything been done on this front?
  created: '2013-07-16 13:54:48'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: Three years and nothing has been fixed?
  created: '2013-07-22 16:02:04'
date: '2010-07-06 13:06:19'
node_type: forum
title: Phonetic symbols in Calibri and Cambria

---
