---
author:
  name: Bert Vanderveen
  picture: 109809
body: "What can I say? Bruno says it all:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2010/july/the-helvetica-killer"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Seems like he reached similar conclusions to the team behind Haas Unica, perhaps
    from similar motivations.
  created: '2010-07-07 00:34:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Very very well put. I am curious to see if it is actually capable of being
    set into useful 12pt word blocks like Haas Unica is.
  created: '2010-07-07 01:33:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I can't be in absolute agreement with Bruno about this, in part because likening
    Helvetica to vanilla ice cream indicates that he's never had real vanilla ice
    cream.
  created: '2010-07-07 03:22:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I was with him until he chose to use the word \"descriding\".\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si  "
  created: '2010-07-07 05:59:20'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: .
  created: '2010-07-07 07:09:52'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: Do we really need a another, better helvetica? Especially when the differences
    will not be spotted by anyone except type nuts like us. It's not that I don't
    see the point, but there are many typefaces besides Univers and Helvetica. And
    many typefaces have already been created with the same objective. I just don't
    see the point, except excercising personal demons. Why otherwise make a typeface
    very much like Helvetica, when you hate Helvetica?
  created: '2010-07-07 12:06:01'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "<cite>Why otherwise make a typeface very much like Helvetica, when you hate
    Helvetica?</cite>\r\nBecause you can sell it as a corporate typeface if you find
    the right client \u2026"
  created: '2010-07-07 14:18:12'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "John, I often order vanilla ice cream as my desert at good restaurants as
    I belive its quality says all about the restaurant, and I am always prepared to
    spend a more money in the shops to have better quality, such as Ben&Jerry's. My
    point is that Helvetica is a inferior quality vanilla ice cream, one made with
    water, vanilla extract and vegetable fats instead of real double cream, proper
    vanilla pods and all. It's why I don't use Helvetica but always go for better
    quality. Now, I believe that there a many good vanillas out there and some of
    it comes down to personal taste: Akzidenz vanilla I am fond of, too, and of course
    Univers vanilla. One of the newer flavours is Akkurat, although I find it tastes
    a bit old-fashioned.\r\n\r\nSo far I have only made vanilla cream at home and
    I find it superior to many bought ones. I will venture and spend an afternoon
    to make an ice cream in the full knowledge that it will be much more enjoyable
    than the supermarket brand. So enjoy the Aktiv vanilla. You know it tastes great
    and it's good for you.\r\n\r\nBuno"
  created: '2010-07-07 14:18:18'
- author:
    name: myobie
  body: "I agree that Helvetica is overused and that Univers is a great typeface,
    but Aktiv, Haas Unica, or any of the other \"better\" Helvetica's just don't seem
    to work for me. \r\n\r\nHelvetica is smooth and easy to ignore, like cheese wiz
    - plastic nothingness that is fun to use. Sure there are finer cheeses out there,
    but do we really need a gourmet bottle of cheese wiz?"
  created: '2010-07-07 16:30:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're a little late to the Anti-Helvetica party, Eben and Bruno, or is the
    UK really so far behind the times?\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-07 16:43:49'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Helvetica has bothered me for a long time and I have finally found the solace
    to voice my discord. And what with everyone still using Helvetica for pretty much
    everything, despite many fantastic fonts available, I think to join the party
    now is perfectly legitimate. And clearly a lot of people haven't heard yet that
    there was a party going on.\r\n\r\nGourmet bottle of cheese wiz - I like that."
  created: '2010-07-07 17:06:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...a lot of people haven't heard yet that there was a party going on.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    guess you're right Bruno, it's still #1 at MyFonts. Sigh.\r\n\r\nMiedinger was
    indeed a salesman, just like the famous <em>excogitator</em> of typefaces, Stanley
    Morison, responsible for another b\xEAte noir, Times Roman."
  created: '2010-07-07 17:22:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My take on Helvetica is a bit different. I think that it has more \"punch\"
    in display than Univers, but is horrible in text. \r\n\r\nHere is a comparison
    of Univers and Neue Helvetica:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvetica-Univers_6536.gif]\r\n\r\nNote
    how Helvetica (below) is wider and set tighter, and Univers is narrower, and set
    looser. Compare the word \"love\" in \"Handgloves\" and you see the power of Helvetica.
    But this same quality of being \"fat in the middle\" as Erik Spiekermann put it
    in the movie, and tightly spaced, makes it horrible in text.\r\n\r\nI think it
    has limited use, and is so overused and wrongly used that it makes me scream,
    but to deny its obvious virtues it seems to me to undermine the real case against
    its widespread use. \r\n\r\nUnivers is way better in text, but then I think Frutiger
    and Avenir are still better.--And I think that sans in general are limited in
    how good they can be for extended text. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I never liked the
    aesthetic of Univers\u2014too cold. But I was surprised by the warmth and attractiveness
    of the examples of hot metal Univers in Frutiger Typefaces: The Complete Works.
    It has real charm there, and is said to be Frutiger's favorite version by far.
    Univers Next is an effort of Frutiger and Linotype to capture that, but I don't
    know how well it succeeds.\r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2010-07-07 18:13:38'
- author:
    name: akos.polgardi
    picture: 118836
  body: I found the comparison with Julia Roberts particularly fitting.
  created: '2010-07-07 23:01:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Akzidenz Grotesk = Erin Brockovich.
  created: '2010-07-07 23:40:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Bruno, it's very interesting to read your replies here and on the Creative
    Review article. I also really enjoyed reading your assessment of the Univers 'a'
    in Grafik Magazine, though I am not sure I concur, I find this level of assessment
    really thrilling.\r\n\r\nHowever, I'd like to know more about your process than
    the motivation. What do you make of Unica, New Rail Alphabet (Kubel's digital
    version), Graphik, Neutral etc. and did you examine these faces as closely as
    Helvetica and Univers whilst evolving Aktiv?\r\n\r\nI have been working on my
    own grotesk face for some time now. Almost every day I revise the whole strategy
    for it, ever conscious of failing to deliver something short of solid niche. I
    am not a commercial type designer so there is no financial pressure to deliver
    at any point and I am in no doubt that professionals would be dismayed at my practice!
    However, for this continued self assessment I have abandoned trying to replace
    anything and every day of the venture demonstrates that this is less and less
    feasible. As a result, the actual designs (not necessarily the use) of Helvetica/Univers/(dare
    I say even) Arial et al bother me less and less. It's actually a very rewarding
    feeling to be reconciled in this manner and to extract that which I view as positive
    becomes much easier. I can only hope that this approach will be more revealing
    and improve my work.\r\n\r\nNick, as for Akzidenz Grotesk\u2026 well, I'd relish
    the chance to buy the Optimo Theinhardt Family if the job came along. I also wish
    there was a digital copy of Series 57 Akzidenz.\r\n\r\nAnyway, Bruno, I'd love
    to hear more about how your process on this particular design. That is what made
    those Unica character sheets so thrilling. I think you had some comments about
    the 'o' to this effect, more please! Thanks in advance."
  created: '2010-07-08 12:23:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "@William Berkson\r\n\r\nPage 101 of Frutiger's book (plate 39) is always
    open on my desk.\r\nAs for Univers in display settings it looks pretty good to
    me atop M\xFCnchen 1972 posters!"
  created: '2010-07-08 12:28:35'
- author:
    name: sirius black
    picture: 120313
  body: "\"I am always prepared to spend a more money in the shops to have better
    quality, such as Ben&Jerry's.\"\r\n\r\nBen&Jerry's considered a quality ice cream
    buy!? All notion of taste just evacuated the building 8-/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-08 12:53:19'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: 'Rather than Ice Cream I think Helvetica is Margarine, whereas Univers is
    real butter. It looks the same and it has it''s uses, and it''s cheaper, but it
    doesn''t really taste that well really... '
  created: '2010-07-08 13:52:24'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: What is this a food forum or what ;-) ?
  created: '2010-07-08 14:29:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Andrew (1985): Yes, Univers looks great on that page. I haven't studied it
    to try to figure why it is so much more attractive than I usually find Univers.
    I don't think it's just that it is letter press, and the corners softened. It
    seems like the spacing is different, and tighter. Is that all there is? \r\n\r\nHave
    you done a comparison with Univers Next? Do you have an opinion on how well captures
    the original Deberny & Peignot? In the book it shows that the weights are not
    exactly the same, as the LT Univers original \"regular\" is heavier (see illustration
    56, p. 107) Is he LT Univers regular weight the same as the original Deberny &
    Peignot? Frutiger describes how he spent many sessions discussing it with Emil
    Ruder, and he feels the regular (55) is his best \"medium\" weight. (p. 93) \r\n\r\nDoes
    Univers Next 55 match it? I am a little doubtful, given the story Frutiger tells.
    The earlier versions of Univers, after the Deberny & Peignot, he feels are a \"sorry
    tale\" (p. 97) and the earlier Linotype versions are a \"catastrophe\" (p. 102).
    He says he \"suffered for it,\" meaning that while Helvetica was fixed and polished
    in Neue Helvetica, his Univers was less popular partly because it had been badly
    done by Linotype. And even though he worked on Linotype Next\u2014a project initiated
    by Bruno Steinhardt\u2014he says he doesn't see the point of so many weights.
    I wonder whether any of them match the original 55 that he was so proud of, and
    which we have both been struck by the beauty of.   \r\n\r\nBy the way, I'd *love*
    to have that book with Frutiger's woodcuts illustrating Genesis, and the text
    in letter press Univers. I think there are only a few copies in existence. Bruno
    Steinhardt showed the copy that Frutiger gave him at TypeCon in Boston. Awesome.\r\n\r\nedit:
    Re-reading Frutiger's account, I see that also some of the widths were changed
    for Monotype, the basis for a lot of other versions, according to him. Reading
    Frutiger's own distress over the later versions of Univers, I feel like my being
    underwhelmed by it\u2014except for that awesome page in the Frutiger book\u2014is
    somewhat justified. This design is so minimalist and disciplined, that being a
    little off in rhythm is really a big deal.  "
  created: '2010-07-08 15:35:03'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Thanks for your reply William. Let me preface by saying I don't think I know
    quite so much as yourself about the various versions. I am not sure why I prefer
    this version, I guess the weight? The slightly softer outline produced by the
    printing process somehow favours the letters also. 'e' and 'o' seem a fraction
    rounder on the outside contour. Again perhaps owing to some spread the junctions
    are a little blacker. 'a' has a little more 'forehead' and a happier bowl, the
    two counters are more balanced. There are so many versions I get confused as to
    what I am comparing to so forgive me for my general impressions. I just know that
    this is my preferred image of Univers and I too would love to own an original
    copy of 'Genesis'. \r\n\r\nBut yes, whatever it was that changed made a great
    deal of difference. I often feel let down by the quality offered by digital versions
    of this genre:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/univer_ultra_test_4672.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5a2ab4fa9f0b05c7afd546f09dcc08_6642.gif]"
  created: '2010-07-08 16:10:12'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Both of the above images show extraordinarily poor outlines, particularly
    the right hand shoulder of each letter. Apologies for the different scales, these
    are just grabs I made as I was working. Also, apologies if my reply was not as
    comprehensive!
  created: '2010-07-08 16:16:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: While I always have felt that Univers was far superior to Helvetica in every
    way, I never felt the need to "kill it". The truth is, the more we complain about
    Helvetica, the more well known it becomes.  We don't need to REPLACE Helvetica,
    we just need to move on and let it become just another face in history. We don't
    need a typeface that does what Helvetica DOES, we are better served by designing
    one that does what Helvetica DOES NOT do.
  created: '2010-07-08 16:37:44'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I don't think there is any harm in quality alternatives, but replacing a typeface
    will be a matter of choice for the typographer, not the type designer. As I pointed
    out above the available versions of the 'classic' grotesks are perhaps sub standard
    in comparison to typefaces of the same genre being produced today (others such
    as Unica entirely unavailable), so I am in ultimately in favour of this kind of
    work, whereby one reexamines these exactitudes, especially regarding coherence
    between weights and the calibre of outlines for display setting.
  created: '2010-07-08 16:52:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, well put. Andrew [1985], I don't actually know much about the different
    versions. I was just quoting what Frutiger says in the book. I actually think
    that the bigger issue than the quality of the curves\u2014which is also important\u2014is
    typographic color and texture and spacing. I think that's what really went off
    in the later versions of Univers, with the probable exception of Univers Next,
    the only one which Frutiger himself worked on.  "
  created: '2010-07-08 18:05:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I think it is both, William! In text general colour, tracking etc. is most
    important but in display sizes curve fidelity is increasingly important. I'd hope
    more attention might be given to kerning short lengths and titles anyway. As I'm
    sure you know, it is very common to see a face like Helvetica 1 or 2 ft high,
    usually in vinyl (plotters struggle anyway). I'd like to see better quality outlines
    in this situation and I think that new designs more often deliver.\r\n\r\nBack
    to Bruno though!"
  created: '2010-07-08 19:23:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yeah well, I think this is partly about the continuing European backlash
    to the poor quality of many of these types republished in America from 1984 into
    the mid-90's, which happened to get a <em>lot</em> of global use. \r\n\r\nA panel
    unto itself somewhere.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-08 23:08:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Yes I think perhaps that is what I am describing above.\r\n\r\n<em>A panel
    unto itself somewhere.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean by this, David?\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2010-07-09 01:00:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>We don't need to REPLACE Helvetica, we just need to move on and let it
    become just another face in history. We don't need a typeface that does what Helvetica
    DOES, we are better served by designing one that does what Helvetica DOES NOT
    do.</em>\r\n\r\nRight on, Chris.\r\nThere is not much merit in being a slave to
    mindless utility under the guise of \"neutrality\". Many types designed recently
    have something new and interesting to say about the grotesque genre, in much the
    same way as Univers and Helvetica were interesting forty or fifty years ago. My
    \"Post-Helvetica\": <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/preface.html\">Preface</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 03:55:24'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "This is a very strange discussion, because it seems like we all know that
    ...\r\n\r\nHelvetica remains popular because of its baggage, not in spite of it.
    1% of its design utility is in the letterforms; the other 99% is in the cumulative
    evocative power of 50 years in the popular consciousness. When you see Helvetica
    in use, you're also seeing the refractions of every other Helvetica you\u2019ve
    ever come across. (That's not only true of Helvetica --- every font picks up secondary
    meaning over time through accumulated use)\r\n\r\nThe idea that someone can come
    up with a typeface design that has certain objective advantages over Helvetica
    -- sure, that's perfectly plausible. Nobody claims Helvetica is technically perfect.
    But in terms of toppling Helvetica from its perch, that's not the difficult issue,
    because technical merit only goes to 1% of Helvetica's value. (Similarly, that's
    also why imperfect digital renderings of Helvetica have not slowed its momentum
    --- even with crap outlines, 99% of the value is intact)\r\n\r\nI love New York
    Magazine, in part because of the wonderful art direction. And every few months
    they put out an issue that goes apeshit with Helvetica.  And the thing is, just
    when I think I can't look at Helvetica ever again, they completely sell it. \r\n\r\nYou
    want to show me a new typeface? OK, sure, I've seen a lot of them, some are interesting,
    some not so much. But you want to show me something about Helvetica I've never
    noticed before? That's much harder, so I'm much more impressed when you pull it
    off. "
  created: '2010-07-09 06:13:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>When you see Helvetica in use, you're also seeing the refractions of
    every other Helvetica you\u2019ve ever come across.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m putting
    that in my syllabus next semester."
  created: '2010-07-09 06:17:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You want to show me a new typeface?  ...  you want to show me something
    about Helvetica I've never noticed before? </em>\r\n\r\nThat's not a valid comparison.\r\n\r\nI
    want to show you something new with a new typeface.\r\n\r\nWhy do you think that's
    easier than teaching the old dog a new trick?\r\n\r\nAnd isn't meaningfulness
    a better criterion than virtuosity anyway?\r\n\r\nThe way that design with Helvetica
    is informed by all those refractions is stagnant and recursive culture, spiralling
    up its own ass. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 08:04:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>When you see Helvetica in use, you're also seeing the refractions of
    every other Helvetica you\u2019ve ever come across.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is not specific
    to Helvetica but all fonts, images, songs, colours\u2026 That's the feedback loop
    inherent to semiotics.\r\n\r\nWith all due respect Nick, why is design with Helvetica
    any more evidence of recursive culture than endlessly dredging up Garamonds or
    any other successful but aging typeface?\r\n\r\n<em>And isn't meaningfulness a
    better criterion than virtuosity anyway?</em>\r\n\r\nIf you rephrase that it might
    read \r\n\r\n<em>And isn't meaningfulness a more virtuous criterion than virtuosity
    anyway?</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 09:28:38'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<em>The way that design with Helvetica is informed by all those refractions
    is stagnant and recursive culture, spiralling up its own ass.</em>\r\n\r\nDesign
    with [fill in anything] is informed by the accumulated refractions of [fill in
    anything]. That includes any design that incorporates type. It also includes type
    design itself. If anything, type design is more self-referential and inbred than
    most design disciplines.\r\n\r\nI don't mean that pejoratively. On the contrary,
    I think it's what makes type design interesting (and difficult). The literal project
    of type designers is drawing type on the screen. But that's the most boring layer
    of the work. The complicated layer is the way that refracted meanings are being
    evoked -- sometimes straight, sometimes with variations -- via these letterforms.
    It's sort of remarkable to think that type designers can manipulate emotional
    reactions in readers by manipulating points and lines on a screen.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    want to show you something new with a new typeface. Why do you think that's easier
    than teaching the old dog a new trick?</em>\r\n\r\nNick I find this an odd comment
    from you, given that many of your own typeface designs (e.g. Scotch Modern) are
    influenced by historical models that you chose (I assume) for their evocative
    energy. When I or anyone looks at Scotch Modern, it raises memories of a certain
    era of typography. All these memories serve as the backdrop for our current experience
    with your typeface. So didn't you teach an old dog a new trick?\r\n\r\nI suppose
    your response might be \"No, I drew a new typeface.\" Well, yes and no. The outlines
    are new. There are new ideas added. But the core emotional resonance of the typeface
    draws on a lot of material that's not new at all. Again, none of which I mean
    pejoratively -- that is true of every historical revival, and why historical revivals
    are an evergreen source of inspiration for type designers --- there is always
    a new trick to teach the old dog. You will see something in the historical model
    that earlier designers didn't see. (I think of the comparison in Bringhurst between
    ITC Berkeley and FB Californian.)\r\n\r\nTrue newness in typeface design is much
    rarer. Zuzana Licko might be the contemporary type designer who has cultivated
    the most unexplored territory. But I think it's also no accident that her later
    work features more revival designs. Teaching old dogs (Baskerville, Bodoni) new
    tricks (Mrs Eaves, Filosofia) can be pretty great.\r\n\r\nSo back to Helvetica.
    I think the lingering question with Helvetica is not \"why does it endure\" but
    \"why has it been resistant to reinterpretation?\" By and large, designers don't
    seem to want a font that's \"like Helvetica but better\" or \"a postmodern riff
    on Helvetica\". They just want Helvetica."
  created: '2010-07-09 16:37:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The way that design with Helvetica is informed by all those refractions
    is stagnant and recursive culture, spiralling up its own ass.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    a very twentieth-century way neophilic of looking at things. The notion that ideas,
    particularly in the visual arts, should have a very short shelf life and then
    be cast aside for whatever the next young turk has come up with might be great
    for generating revenue, but it\u2019s no so good at allowing us to refine anything.
    Ancient Egyptian artists practiced in the same for millennia and it still impresses
    people thousands of years after their culture finally changed. It would have been
    a real shame if that style had been cast aside after a couple decades to satisfy
    the neophiles."
  created: '2010-07-09 17:08:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "True that\u2026"
  created: '2010-07-09 17:10:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The notion that ideas, particularly in the visual arts, should have a very
    short shelf life and then be cast aside...\"\r\n\r\nThere is a difference between
    admiration/appreciation of a historic work or style and the slavish need to replicate
    it ad infinitum for fear of losing the connection to \"Known\" success paths.
    It is just as bad or arrogant to bind ones feet in the strapping of past successes
    as it is to cry \"Change just for the sake of novelty\" is the only worthy path.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-07-09 17:59:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I have a love for both classics and fresh design. I don''t have a problem
    with people using Helvetica well, which is definitely possible. My problem is
    that it is used constantly when there are better options, and often used just
    horribly. Used in text "it looks like dog shit" as the late Paul Rand said. I''m
    tired of having to look at dog shit every day. If I had a dog there might be compensation
    :) '
  created: '2010-07-09 18:10:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is no typeface ever designed that is immune from being used horribly.
    There is no way to stop bad usage (or any usage) for that matter. The problem
    with Helvetica, Times Roman, and several other \"overused ad nauseam\" typefaces
    is that they are forever embedded on every computer on the planet and are doomed
    to stay there as long as there is backwards compatibility.\r\nI have no problem
    with Helvetica when used properly. My only problem is that it is rarely used by
    choice and more often used by happenstance because of defaults, ignorance, and
    to some degree, laziness :-) Any typeface given the history and exposure of Helvetica
    would fall victim to the same disdain and incessant cries for euthanasia.\r\n\r\nI
    say let it live a fine life in semiretirement and move on to the natural ways
    of evolution. It was one thing centuries ago when Guttenberg first made his blackletter
    type modeled after scribal writing. It was the only show in town. The world moved
    on from then and created many newer faces without committing murder on the original
    typeface. As the Beatles once said, \"in this time of darkness... Let it Be.\""
  created: '2010-07-09 18:45:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Matthew, you're still not distinguishing between type design and typography.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're saying that I don't walk my talk, you should first consider my record as
    an art director. The choices of art directors and graphic designers is really
    what this thread is about.\r\n\r\nFor the record, I followed the Baskin-Robbins
    philosophy of type choice (so many flavors, so little time), so was always using
    different fonts for different clients, be they new typefaces or obscure old ones.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it was not always possible to convince clients about this, so I must say that
    art directors who use Helvetica today may not be totally guilty, if their clients
    are asking for it.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAs a working type designer, I have produced
    a few stereotypical genre types as commissions (eg Worldwide, Brown, and Walburn
    for newspapers), but my preference is for original designs.\r\n\r\nScotch Modern
    is a result of conversations I had at Typophile, where I trashed revivals as not
    being type design, and met enough resistance that I thought perhaps I should give
    it a try, in the sense of a strict facsimile. One reason I chose the Scotch Modern
    genre is precisely because it is so overlooked today as a text face (old styles
    being used for the allusion of \"old\" in work concerning the 19th century is
    a particular bugbear of mine).\r\n\r\nAgain, whether I taught an old dog (Scotch
    Modern) a new trick is not the issue -- it's typographers who decide which hoops
    it should jump through.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n<em>I think the lingering question with
    Helvetica is not \"why does it endure\" but \"why has it been resistant to reinterpretation?\"
    By and large, designers don't seem to want a font that's \"like Helvetica but
    better\" or \"a postmodern riff on Helvetica\". They just want Helvetica.</em>\r\n\r\nAgain,
    that's two questions.\r\nFor type designers, \"Helvetica\" has in one sense proved
    resistant to reinterpretation -- we are talking about a typeface, the grotesk
    sans, that began in the mid 19th century, the letterforms of which have been massaged
    ever since under varying trade names.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Umbrellas_4526.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    another sense, the grotesque sans has been constantly reinterpreted. Not every
    grotesque has adhered so closely to the Akzidenz Grotesk model as Helvetica.\r\n\r\nFor
    typographers, I would suggest that the majority of those who specify Helvetica
    are not trying to impress you with something you've never noticed before, but
    the opposite. They use Helvetica in a conventional, safe (dare one say professional)
    manner, because it gets the job done. So it is not resistant to reinterpretation,
    because utility is their priority, not new tricks.\r\n\r\n<em>That\u2019s a very
    twentieth-century way neophilic of looking at things.</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary,
    the argument against mass conformity arose in the first age of mass production,
    the 19th century. From Carlyle to Morris.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 19:01:22'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: In all fairness, Nick, Helvetica is somewhat more than the lines of capital
    letters you show in the above image and in your article <em>The Face of Uniformity</em>.
    I think there was a little more work behind Helvetica than just massaging.
  created: '2010-07-09 19:10:17'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 the lingering question with Helvetica is not \"why does it endure\"
    but \"why has it been resistant to reinterpretation?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWell put!
    \r\nI dare to try an answer, be kind with me when I fail :-)\r\n\r\nPerhaps the
    actual strenght of Helvetica is \u2013 its peak miserability. A badness which
    roots in the total lack of a concept what *letterforms* are, or what they ought
    to be. Helvetica has nothing to do with writing or printing, or anything else
    of tangible quality. It appears to be the incarnation of merely administering
    the alphabet, without having any clue about its shaping. As such a failure, H.
    is something very human. Like all the bad qualities human beings possess \u2026\r\n\r\nThough
    Helvetica\u2019s origins lay in the late fifties, it became obviously the typical
    typographic expression for the seventies. And if it really is a particular bad
    face, what does that say about that period? \r\nThough its origin is Swiss, it
    became rather typical for German or American typography. Has anyone an explanation
    for that? What does it tell about the Germans, about the Americans?!\r\n\r\nMy
    personal assumption is: Helvetica owes its omnipresence to it being simply THE
    NON-TYPEFACE, lending generously absolution to all and everything. Maybe therefore
    it seems to resist reinterpretation.\r\n_\r\n\r\nAnd now I\u2019d like to see
    anyone of you coming up with a new ROTIS."
  created: '2010-07-09 19:38:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think there was a little more work behind Helvetica than just massaging.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    really.\r\nHere is a document showing the working process of plagiarizing Akzidenz
    Grotesk that Miedinger oversaw.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/haas2_6117_4252.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
    the lower case of the Grotesque, although not as old as the capitals, extends
    back into the 19th century."
  created: '2010-07-09 19:50:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The lowercase of AG's precursor was developed in the late nineteenth century
    but the style prevalent at the time was for titles or display type to be set in
    all capitals.  There may be precious few examples of the lowercase having survived
    until our time but there still are a few bits to be found with some [not so hard]
    hard digging.\r\n\r\nBelow from Mosley's \"The Nymph and the Grot\" an 1819 sample
    in all caps and then an 1834 sample in lowercase:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GrotNym-Caslon-1819_3530.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GrotNym-StBride-lc1834_6346.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is small detail from an 1883 sample from Taschen's \"Visual History of Type\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/detail-Schrift_3634.png]"
  created: '2010-07-09 21:04:21'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "To go back to my original point --- among type designers, most of the vitriol
    directed toward Helvetica targets its intrinsic weaknesses as a work of typeface
    design. I guess that's understandable --- type designers tend to see typefaces
    in type-design terms. \r\n\r\nBut for Helvetica, most of its accrued meaning comes
    from outside the typeface, so criticisms lobbed at Helvetica from within the type-design
    arena sort of miss the point. It's like criticizing Star Wars because the visual
    effects are unrealistic. Or because the dialogue is wooden. Or because the plot
    is pinched from any number of cheesy westerns. All true. But so what? \r\n\r\nAnd
    to go back to the Bruno Maag interview at the top of this thread, Mr. Maag likewise
    seems to be down in the weeds with his criticisms about how Helvetica was made
    and marketed. All true. But so what? The idea of a typeface designer making a
    \"Helvetica killer\" seem to me as odd as a sci-fi filmmaker setting out to make
    a \"Star Wars killer\". \r\n\r\nAnd past that, looking at Aktiv Grotesk as a reader,
    it really does resemble  Helvetica (yes, I can see the differences, but the overall
    feeling is still strongly Helvetica-esque). So Aktiv Grotesk rides on Helvetica's
    coattails, and in so doing is not a Helvetica killer at all, but a Helvetica propagator.
    \r\n\r\nOr to put it another way: if person who really loved Helvetica made a
    Helvetica \"revival\" that restored some of the more Grotesk-like details, how
    would we distinguish it from Mr. Maag's work? Mr. Maag's work seems much closer
    to an act of homage than hatred (despite his claims to the contrary)"
  created: '2010-07-09 21:24:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...among type designers, most of the vitriol directed toward Helvetica
    targets its intrinsic weaknesses as a work of typeface design...type designers
    tend to see typefaces in type-design terms.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you're guessing.
    \r\nPersonally, I'm not irritated by Helvetica per se, but by the fact that its
    ubiquity is an affront to myself and other present-day type designers. Not only
    does it say \"you guys aren't as good as the old guys\", but worse, the default
    systems aesthetic: \"type design is unimportant, I'll use the default\" and the
    economic effect -- profit for corporate shareholders, not type-designers.\r\n\r\nIn
    this respect, I see \"type-design\" in terms of being a socio-economic, cultural
    process, rather than the product of such activity.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 22:07:36'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>Personally, I'm not irritated by Helvetica per se, but by the fact that
    its ubiquity is an affront to myself and other present-day type designers. Not
    only does it say \"you guys aren't as good as the old guys\", but worse, the default
    systems aesthetic: \"type design is unimportant, I'll use the default\" and the
    economic effect -- profit for corporate shareholders, not type-designers.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is just paranoid."
  created: '2010-07-10 03:03:51'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Nick, I don't see that image as evidence of plagiarism, in fact I think it
    is a little flippant to say so. The fact that these documents were made, kept
    and now published suggests to me that they are not a shameful record of such activity.
    Perhaps, however, you view this as the ultimate crime, gone unpunished!\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned above that I would like to see a digital version of Series 57 Akzidenz.
    I hope I am correct in saying this version of AG that was adapted to look like
    Helvetica, a similar treatment was given to Monotype Grotesque Version 1961. Are
    these typefaces plagiarising Helvetica? Does this not say something about the
    sharing of culture and ideas? Ideas are shared, inescapable once witnessed, and
    always imitated and refracted. You say it yourself, the lowercase extends back
    into the 19th Century, and what came before that, a black hole? No, of course
    not, some other rock to stand on and step out. And now Bruno has used Helvetica
    as a rock to step out from, and I in my own efforts to design a typeface I will
    no doubt examine what <em>he</em> has done. I will also look at Arial and examine
    it's much debated character. In doing so I am not blinding myself, for all that
    I dismiss, I carry the imprint!\r\n\r\nForma, Maxima, Linea, Unica\u2026 even
    Neue Helvetica. Obviously these too are all acts of plagiarism by a cunning masseur!\r\n\r\nMore
    likely they evidence the same activity of evolving and adapting that <em>we all</em>
    partake in, <em>you</em> included, like it or not! Wether it is trussed up in
    marketing or ideology is irrelevant. Amazing that you place yourself outside of
    this ultimately human activity! Spiraling up it's own ass, indeed!"
  created: '2010-07-10 03:17:01'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: What a colossal waste of time and energy!
  created: '2010-07-10 03:23:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: if your margarine is tasting you well, than you really are in trouble. ('it
    doesn't taste good' is the proper answer in this case, fyi)
  created: '2010-07-10 04:01:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Star Wars...pinched from any number of cheesy westerns.</em>\r\n\r\ni
    thought it was pinched from the Japanese film <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hidden_Fortress\">The
    Hidden Fortress</a>, but what do i know?"
  created: '2010-07-10 04:18:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yeah, Paul, it's the Hidden Fortress\u2014rescuing the Princess from enemy
    territory. I saw it before Star Wars came out, and in seeing the first Star Wars,
    I immediately saw the inspiration\u2014which I think George Lucas has confirmed.
    Of course it's also hugely different in many ways. "
  created: '2010-07-10 04:33:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CaptureH_3791.PNG]'
  created: '2010-07-10 05:34:59'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: 'Designers from the 60s and 70s loved Helvetica Margarine though, excactly
    because it''s margarine, not butter. It doesn''t really have a strong flavour
    of itself, making it a good anonymous carrier of information. I guess we''ve moved
    on from that idea of objectivity and neutrality though. At least it was still
    more or less new then. Now you can only really use helvetica in two situations:  1.
    If you want to directly reference to those ''glory days'', or 2. If you are too
    lazy to make a choice. '
  created: '2010-07-10 07:21:03'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: Oh and 3. Because you were forced to...
  created: '2010-07-10 07:21:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Perhaps, however, you view this as the ultimate crime, gone unpunished!</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I don't.\r\nPerhaps you think every typeface is an adaptation of some other typeface.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    there a difference between absorbing ideas and shapes, which one then synthesizes
    and draws into a typeface from scratch -- and a salesman directing employees to
    put someone else's product in front of them and tweak it?\r\n\r\n<em>...paranoid...</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I said, I don't dislike Helvetica because of its typographic features. \r\nCertainly,
    as a type designer, I am responsive to these.\r\nBut it would be a mistake to
    suggest, as Matthew does, that my opinions about it, as a type designer, are therefore
    purely technical and aesthetic, oh noble artisan that I am. As the proprietor
    of a type foundry, I am in business to publish new typefaces and sell font licenses.
    If font users can specify Helvetica not because they have any great attachment
    to its aesthetics but merely because it is a cultural default, surely a font manufacturer
    can dislike it for the same reason, without being paranoid?\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-12 00:43:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Perhaps, perhaps, perhaps!\r\n\r\n<em>Isn't there a difference between absorbing
    ideas and shapes, which one then synthesizes and draws into a typeface from scratch
    -- and a salesman directing employees to put someone else's product in front of
    them and tweak it?</em>\r\n\r\nYes absolutely, but I don't think this describes
    the situation. Neither of the above options conform <em>exactly</em> to plagiarism,
    which would be to simply pass work off as one's own. A very subtle 'tweaking'
    would come very close, sufficiently close to warrant the term, but the difference
    between Akzidenz and Helvetica <em>isn't</em> that subtle. Massage was at least
    a stronger term than tweak!\r\n\r\n<em>If font users can specify Helvetica not
    because they have any great attachment to its aesthetics but merely because it
    is a cultural default, surely a font manufacturer can dislike it for the same
    reason, without being paranoid?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, by all means! But your prior
    description of Helvetica as a personal affront takes the biscuit!\r\n\r\n<em>Not
    only does it say \"you guys aren't as good as the old guys\"\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    bit in particular made me chortle.\r\n\r\nShake?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-13 10:29:22'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "From <em>Some Thoughts on New Haas Grotesk,</em> 1962\r\n(Translation <em>Helvetica
    Forever</em>)\r\n\r\n\"Would it not be a poor sign of our times if everyone were
    to constantly use the same grotesque typeface? Of course it would. Let us take
    one step further, let us generalize and blatantly say that a good grotesque is
    a necessity in today's day and age, but that it should not become the sole, beatific
    typeface. In addition to the grotesques, the roman typefaces, in the medieval
    or classical form, as well as the Egyptienne and the related Clarendon must regain
    their ground. It will also become necessary, in future, to learn to distinguish
    when a grotesque is more suitable than a roman or an Egyptienne. Let us guard
    against the blanket use of the grotesque typeface, which could lead to an oppressive
    sans surfeit \u2013 and that would indeed be a disservice to New Haas Grotesk.\""
  created: '2010-07-13 15:50:59'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bsh_shirt_4584.jpg]'
  created: '2010-07-15 09:56:10'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Strange. My last post didn\u2019t bump the thread.\r\nServer hickups while
    posting."
  created: '2010-07-15 13:33:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You have Si's T-shirt!
  created: '2010-07-15 15:17:16'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Unfortunately I don\u2019t.\r\nJust remembered seeing it on the web sone
    time ago."
  created: '2010-07-15 15:36:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I got one from Si at the Seattle TypeCon.  They were screening the then new
    film "Helvetica" at the time.
  created: '2010-07-15 17:43:09'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "Lucky Chris.\r\n;-)"
  created: '2010-07-15 17:49:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jan, I traded him for one of mine :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/877449524/in/set-72157611971018146/"
  created: '2010-07-15 19:20:47'
- author:
    name: akaczun
    picture: 120370
  body: "Forget about 'Helvetica'. Look out 'Univers'.\r\n\r\nContax Pro is the new
    geometric sans typeface series for the 21st century. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontspring.com/fonts/type-innovations/contax-pro"
  created: '2010-07-19 17:03:24'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Akaczun, I'm already hating Contax Pro due to your unpolite behaviour.\r\n\r\nDo
    you really think this massive messages will help you to build a good reputation
    to your font?"
  created: '2010-07-19 17:10:07'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "What's so 'unpolite behavior'?\r\n\r\nJust proud of my latest font family
    release and bringing it to attention.\r\n\r\nSorry you feel that way.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 18:20:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Alex, this is a discussion forum.\r\nIf you want to hype your type, use the
    Release forum, or pay for an ad.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think Typophile would be like
    if every type designer who participates pimped their wares in every thread?\r\n\r\nIf
    you would like to participate with self interest, please do it occasionally with
    discretion, and otherwise contribute ideas and conversation, rather than just
    exploiting Typophile as a free promotional channel.\r\n\r\nI admit to having mentioned
    one of my designs in this thread, but I have done so briefly, in comparison with
    my total posts to the thread, and within the context of the ideas being discussed."
  created: '2010-07-19 18:49:34'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: See also <a href="http://typophile.com/node/69409#comment-421100">my comments</a>
    in the other thread.
  created: '2010-07-19 19:08:06'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: Agreed, I apologize for the indiscretion.
  created: '2010-07-19 19:37:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Florian,\r\nKindly remove Akaczun's other blatant spam from the Helvetica
    vs Univers thread."
  created: '2010-07-19 20:29:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "NS> What do you think Typophile would be like if every type designer who
    participates pimped their wares in every thread?\r\n\r\nLol, I think it'd be like
    it is!\r\n\r\nWhen discussions come across a need anywhere remotely linked to
    any of our products, we all 'pimp' like there's a convention of condom makers
    in town. I've seen your Scotch flogged anytime any transitional design comes up
    for discussion, and so do most others under the same circumstances.\r\n\r\nAll
    AKaczun has to do now is make nine posts about other stuff before 2013 and he's
    all caught up.;)\r\n\r\nThis looks cool AK... I'm testing my own Apres RE for
    the web all day today, so I've got an all compatible geometric sans thing goin'
    as you can see. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AKcontax_4608.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-19 22:21:19'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "@Andreas:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"My personal assumption is: Helvetica owes its omnipresence
    to it being simply THE NON-TYPEFACE, lending generously absolution to all and
    everything.</cite>\r\n\r\nCall me na\xEFve if need be... but isn't that the end?
    The goal? The finale? The Rapture? The Philosopher's Stone of Typography? To make
    a form which conveys its meaning through completely invisible function?\r\n\r\nWell,
    one goal, at least. ;)"
  created: '2010-07-20 07:30:06'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: "http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/magazine-10689931\r\n\r\n\"The other day I heard
    that people are getting 'font paralysis'. They couldn't move forward with their
    work because they were unable to decide on which font to use.\"\r\n\r\nOr, complain
    about."
  created: '2010-07-20 15:45:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Marvin was "Too busy thinkin' bout my baby (and I ain't got time for nothing
    else)" -- but not too busy to perform the song.
  created: '2010-07-20 18:16:43'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>but isn't that the end? The goal? The finale?</cite>\r\n\r\nI think
    it isn\u2019t. Because there is no such a thing as an \u201Cabsolute\u201D or
    \u201Cdefinite\u201D or \u201Cneutral\u201D or \u201C\uFB01nal\u201D typeface.
    It cannot be. For god\u2019s sake, it will never be.\r\nThat would be the end
    of the story, too sad  ;-)"
  created: '2010-07-20 20:40:20'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "And now I\u2019d like this AK guy\u2019s accounts and his miserable \u2018typeface\u2019
    spam getting trashed altogether.\r\nFinally  ;-)"
  created: '2010-07-20 20:44:42'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@AS\r\n\r\nI acknowledged the mistake and apologized.\r\n\r\nIn my original
    post(s) I acted without thinking.\r\n\r\nThank you for pointing out the 'errors'
    of my ways.\r\n\r\nAlthough, David Berlow was kind enough to point out that you
    all have been guilty of this, from time-to-time.\r\n\r\nBut, a normal gentleman,
    would just let this go, already.\r\n\r\nYou obviously have some other issue(s).\r\n\r\nTo
    reiterate, this will not happen again.\r\n\r\nIf you have something else to add,
    email me directly, and we can discuss further.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, move on and get
    a life.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 21:39:11'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Surely the intended target of Contax Pro, \xE0 la Maag, is not Univers but
    Avenir or some other geometrically routed font. At least get your pitch right!"
  created: '2010-07-22 10:36:45'
date: '2010-07-06 23:41:41'
title: In absolute agreement with Bruno Maag (re Helvetica)

---
