---
author:
  name: Predabot
  picture: 120029
body: "Hi, name's Lars Johansson. ( *ducks for obligatory Swede-jokes*)\r\n\r\nI found
  this outstanding site trough some searching on the web, for resources and information
  on fonts and typography.\r\n\r\nI'm a hobbyist web and graphical designer, as well
  as an amateur comic-book letterer and colourist. \r\n\r\nI'm also an editor for
  a comic-book fanzine here in Sweden, and one of my duties is the design of logos
  and promotional fliers. As such, I have been reading up on what is essentially considered
  to be the VERY BEST of the best, of the best, ( and on and on ;) ) fonts that a
  modern graphical designer needs to have in his arsenal.\r\n\r\nI've also come to
  the conclusion that quality most definitely don't come cheap. So, realizing that
  I at the moment do not have the funds to actually acquire the tools of the professional,
  I have started the search for the best hobbyists tools. \r\n\r\nThat has led me
  to this board, mainly because I find an immense amount of knowledge seems to be
  contained here. Knowledge that I desperately need.\r\n\r\nYou gents and ladies are
  some of the very best in the global typography industry. Can you help me out with
  putting together a list of the very best Open Source fonts that I can use in my
  work?\r\n\r\nI've been gazing the following sites in my quest, and they seem to
  hold part of the answers that I seek: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/\r\n--\r\nReally
  great fonts there, already dl-ed some of them and used in a project.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.alvit.de/blog/article/20-best-license-free-official-fonts\r\n--\r\nVitaly
  Friedman seems to be taking a really good look at some of the best alternatives
  for a newbie like me. It doesn't seem like that many of these fonts can actually
  replace the true classics that professional designers use tho...\r\n\r\nhttp://justcreativedesign.com/2008/03/02/30-best-font-downloads-for-designers/\r\n--\r\nJacob
  Cass goes trough the very best of the best... and I have to agree, those types and
  fonts seem really versatile. \r\n\r\nSo, do you think it's possible to find replacements
  for the true classics? As a start I just want to find some alternatives to the top
  7-10 fonts, instead of the massive list of 30 classics that the real pro's use.
  Just want the bare bones, a little something to start me off, so to speak.\r\n\r\nSomething
  that will replace these little nuggets:\r\n\r\n1. Akzidenz Grotesk\r\n2. Trajan\r\n3.
  Garamond\r\n4. Futura\r\n5. Bodoni\r\n6. Bickham Script Pro\r\n7. Frutiger\r\n8.
  Univers\r\n9. DIN\r\n10.Trade Gothic\r\n\r\n\r\nAny help and suggestions are gladly
  received, ladies and gentlemen.\r\n\r\n-Lars"
comments:
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Take a look at the inexpensive FontSite fonts. They have a lot of what you
    list there (under possibly different names).\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontspring.com/foundry/fontsite"
  created: '2010-07-09 20:52:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>As a start I just want to find some alternatives to the top 7-10 fonts</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    you want alternatives, why circumscribe yourself by a \"similar to\" strategy?\r\nThose
    typefaces define typographic range in an old set of morphisms.\r\n\r\nWhy not
    seek a \"top ten\" that provides a broad palette of contemporary functionality?\r\nThat
    would include relevant genres such as square fonts, ultra-black, handwriting scripts,
    and slab serifs."
  created: '2010-07-09 21:05:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Seems strange that a newbie designer would want to cut corners on their workhorse
    fonts. Does the same apply to hardware and software? If so I have a 286 with Corel
    Draw 2 I'd be happy to sell you. :-)
  created: '2010-07-09 21:09:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Check out http://www.ascenderfonts.com/ also. Jos Buivenga''s stuff is some
    of the best free stuff--he gives away some weights, and you can buy others. '
  created: '2010-07-09 21:13:33'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Check MyFonts.com for free fonts. If you fail to find anything useful there,
    you\u2019re likely to fail otherwise \u2026 ;-)\r\n\r\nAnd make sure you check
    MyFonts for \u203ALapidaria\u2039. That\u2019ll morph your business up!\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 21:25:23'
- author:
    name: Predabot
    picture: 120029
  body: "<strong>Fontsquirrel</strong>: Those does seem fairly affordable, I must
    say. I'm actually surprised by the price, tell you the truth.\r\n\r\n<strong>Nick
    Shinn</strong>: Your words have a ring of truth to them. But some fonts have a
    timeless look, and I really can't help think that's for a reason. But, new font-genres
    does have cool looks, and I do want to create some work that looks fresh and inspired.
    \r\n\r\nDo you perhaps have some suggestions and examples of fonts with very contemporary,
    perhaps even somewhat experimental, morphism? ( I take it morphism in this case
    means the overall shape and look of the typeset)\r\n\r\n<strong>Sii</strong>:
    Well, I only make 464$ and 26c a month... and even that will soon dry up. Add
    to that the fact that I'm living in the most highly taxed country in the world,
    and you kind of understand why I have to cut some corners. :| I use an older version
    of Photoshop and Illustrator, and I've got a very basic Bamboo Wacom tablet. This
    is just another cost-cut in a long line. I'm pretty used to cutting corners. \r\n\r\nCheaper,
    raw toilet-paper, water instead of dairy in cooking, patching up an old bicycle-tire
    5 times or so... it's everyday life. "
  created: '2010-07-09 21:25:39'
- author:
    name: Predabot
    picture: 120029
  body: "William: Ascenderfonts have a lot of good-looking fonts. But I think they're
    a bit too expensive for me. Fontspring seems more affordable. But thank you for
    the suggestion, it will be a site to look for in the future. I certainly hope
    to afford better and better fonts.\r\n\r\nI will definitely be checking out Boivenga's
    stuff! He has some neat stuff there, and his name has been mentioned on several
    sites I've been cruising. \r\n\r\nAndreas: Lapidaria looks quite fun. A very interesting
    design, including so many different glyphs in one set. I'll probably check out
    the free Medior Light, but it might be a bit tricky to work with, since comic-book
    design favors bold and ultra-bold type to such a degree. Almost everything I do
    features something that is outstandingly larger than life. "
  created: '2010-07-09 21:39:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I'm living in the most highly taxed country in the world</em>\r\n\r\nA
    mere fifth on the Big Mac Index, however.\r\n\r\n<em>I take it morphism in this
    case means the overall shape and look of the typeset</em>\r\n\r\nIt's a term borrowed
    from category theory.\r\nThe functors of typefaces are abstract, variable, plastic
    qualities, such as weight, contrast, angle of stress, serif genre, etc., that
    can be used to describe any typeface.\r\nOnce you limit yourself to a set of particular
    typefaces, which fix a combination of functor values as specific morphisms, you
    exclude those functor values not represented by those faces. "
  created: '2010-07-09 22:20:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "If you\u2019re working on non-commercial projects you can get a hefty discount
    on <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/dunwich/armitage/\">my Armitage family
    at MyFonts.</a>"
  created: '2010-07-09 22:31:10'
- author:
    name: Predabot
    picture: 120029
  body: "Nick: Oh? I thought we were on 4th place? (well, last year..) There's a new
    index out? \r\n\r\nJames Puckett: That's really great that you offer that kind
    of discount ( 50%, aint too shabby). Sadly, not that many of my projects are completely
    non-commercial. \r\n\r\nWe're getting a bit off topic tho.\r\n\r\nNick mentioned
    something very interesting in his first post, that the classics I listed may unnecessarily
    limit a designer in his work. What kind of NEW free top 10 fonts would you guys
    recommend? \r\n\r\nPerhaps something a little bit like this? \r\n           |\r\n
    \          v\r\n\r\n1. Alte Haas Grotezk\r\n2. Fontin\r\n3. Delicious\r\n4. League
    Gothic\r\n5. Gentium\r\n6. MG Open Moderna\r\n7. Qlassik\r\n8. Myriad Pro\r\n9.
    Ripe\r\n10.Orbitron"
  created: '2010-07-10 13:51:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typographica.org/features/our-favorite-typefaces-of-2012/\r\nSo, out
    of 54 selections there are a whopping total of... <strong>one</strong> open-source
    fonts. And that's by Adobe! \"It's an evil Font Mafia CONSPIRACY, I tell you!!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-15 20:14:50'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "If you've been looking for high-quality open source fonts, I expect you've
    found the GhostScript fonts  already:  http://downloads.ghostscript.com/public/fonts/
    \r\nThese versions are the latest release from URW (from some time in 2011, I
    think), <em>not</em> the various extended versions available from multiple open
    source distributions, which are mostly based on the 10+ year-old original releases.
    \ The best of these extended versions (which do have broader language coverage)
    seem to be the <a href=\"http://www.gust.org.pl/projects/e-foundry/tex-gyre/\">TeX
    Gyre</a> fonts.\r\n\r\nThey largely duplicate fonts that are distributed standard
    in most OSes nowadays, so how useful they are to you is an open question.  Still...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n1.
    Akzidenz Grotesk\r\n4. Futura\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf you're limiting yourself
    to a basic selection of essentials, rather than Akzidenz Grotesk you'd probably
    be just as well off with a free Helvetica clone, like Nimbus Sans or Heros (from
    the above links).\r\n\r\nIt's not Futura, but if you're looking for a good geometric
    sans in general, the Avant Garde clones URW Gothic or Gyre Adventor are also part
    of the same sets.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n2. Trajan\r\n5. Bodoni\r\n6. Bickham
    Script Pro\r\n7. Frutiger\r\n9. DIN\r\n10.Trade Gothic\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCan't
    be much help with these ones, but...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n3. Garamond\r\n8.
    Univers\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhether you can legitimately call them open source
    is a matter of some debate, but the <a href=\"ftp://ftp.dante.de/tex-archive/support/ghostscript/AFPL/GhostPCL/\">URW
    GhostPCL fonts</a> include a decent free Garamond, \"Garamond No.8\".   IMHO it's
    not quite as crisp as Adobe Garamond but it's reasonably nice, and it's a true
    Garamond (not a Jannon).\r\n\r\nThe same set also includes an Univers clone called
    \"U001\".\r\n\r\n\r\nYou should also check out the <a href=\"http://arkandis.tuxfamily.org/tugfonts.htm\">Arkandis
    open source fonts</a> for some good alternative fonts.  Baskervald is particulary
    good, in my opinion."
  created: '2013-03-16 15:57:52'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Jeez...I get hung up with \"true classics.\" There isn't much of anything
    today that mirrors the true classics, because very little was done to emulate
    them. All you have to do is put a book printed letterpress along side a contemporary
    book purporting to use the same font, and you'll see the difference. If you want
    to even approximately mirror them,  you need a font editing program to beef things
    up.\r\n\r\nThen there is the notion of \"a classic\": if you're a car buff, there
    was something about the 1953 Studebaker and the E-type Jag. What we get today
    doesn't look at all like them -- today is all bulbous & bulky. Same with fonts,
    I think. But so what? Remember, the E-type Jag also had electronics by Lucas,
    and the '53 Stude had that V-8 where the oil galleys meant only cylinders 1 &
    8 got adequate oil. (Or was it the other way around?)\r\n\r\nIn the same vein,
    there are people designing type today that might become classics. Not much, maybe
    one or two new families a year, but if you free your eye from the small details
    of classic dimensions & detail, some of the new designs show excellence, just
    like some of the new cars.\r\n\r\nI hesitate to mention any, because as a comic
    book aficionado, your needs and taste will run different than mine; my concerns
    are with long texts.\r\n\r\nWhile the type designers who populate Typophile tend
    to poo-poo the notion, in your situation, I'd get the best font editing program
    you can afford, and start to learn. You could start by fixing what's wrong with
    modern renderings of \"the classics,\" you'd learn a lot."
  created: '2013-03-16 19:12:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great stuff... until the last paragraph.\r\n\r\nThe type designers who populate
    Typophile are exactly the people who most love seeing newcomers learn the craft.
    We've been helping people learn about type design since day one, while asking
    for nothing in return. Here's one recent result: http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/garvis/\r\n\r\nIt's
    pretty warped to suggest the only plausible alternative explanation: that we hang
    around here just to scare people out of learning the craft. It makes me quite
    upset to see somebody try to twist reality like this.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-16 19:37:49'
- author:
    name: Delete
  body: 'Mr. Ellertson: what are the new typefaces that you feel show promise for
    books over the past few years?'
  created: '2013-03-16 23:12:32'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>what are the new typefaces that you feel show promise for books over
    the past few years?</cite> \r\n\r\nI'm not a good person to ask that question
    of. For maybe 10 years now, I've been much more interested in *usefeul* than *like.*
    \r\n\r\nI typeset more than design, but when I do design -- that is, select the
    fonts for a book -- I find I select fonts that are open source (usually reworked),
    as this solves a real need in the scholarly publishing world. \r\n\r\nOther than
    that, I occasionally select fonts from a type designer whose work I think has
    been overlooked & deserves a bit of promotion. \r\n\r\nAnd if  none of these seem
    appropriate for a project, I go with what I know will work, which given my age,
    throws us back to the \"classics.\" I'm not terribly interested in newness for
    newness sake, nor do I care how many times a font has been used. \r\n\r\nThere
    are other, equally valid approaches, as long as the work serves the reader, and
    as much as possible, the author. It's old school, but I feel book shows should
    be just that, not design shows. Too many years of insider stories about the jurying
    of the 50 best books... \r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nIn other words, to return to the
    automotive analogy, If I were to abandon my truck for a car, it wouldn't be another
    Studebaker (not even an Avanti), or a new Jag. It would be a new Porsche 911,
    visually little changed for many years -- but  IMSLTHO, one of the best cars available.
    Not your question, you want someone with an eye for the new."
  created: '2013-03-17 03:22:26'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>However, the digital version many of these (even Bembo Book) do not
    do the originals justice.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes and no. If you mean can be substituted
    for the metal/letterpress without notice, then no. Each letter was individually
    cast in metal, so there could be slight variations. Not every letter rested exactly
    on the \"baseline.\" The height of each letter would not always be the same, and
    shimming was time-consuming, & impossible with Linotype. If you printed from the
    type itself, it would wear -- what, 5000 impressions from Linotype, 7,000 from
    Monotype, a bit more from foundry.\r\n\r\nIn other words, there was some randomness
    with metal/letterpress that you do not have with current digital fonts. Perfect
    order is boring, we need some chaos in any work for it to be appealing. Having
    said that, there is still enough randomness available, usually with just the Latin
    alphabet itself.\r\n\r\nAnd having said that, most letterpress printing was atrocious.
    When speaking of it's beauty, most people pull out a favorite book or two or 100,
    ignoring the thousands upon thousands that are simply dreadful. (This was first
    pointed out to me by the designer Rich Hendel, it's not my original thought. But
    he's right.)\r\n\r\nIf you like the classic types, you can get the same feel on
    the printed page. Usually, this will require a font editing program, and a license
    that permits modification. I suppose I have an advantage here, so many of the
    fonts I have were purchased with the Adobe license in the 1990s. You can't do
    that anymore. http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/additional_licenses.html
    Secondly, I'm old enough that I've met a number of the older designers, and can
    usually get permission to modify a font. They trust that I won't butcher their
    work. Anyone can do this, it is just a matter of time & work.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI
    like Trinite, and don't particularly see a need to \"reserve\" it -- Eckersley
    used it for most everything the last 8 years of his life. Here's a book about
    early 20th-century radicals Richard designed. A long way from the Italian renaissance.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/texshowcase/6553-sample.pdf
    \r\n\r\nI like Minion. Boring is good. I did go back to the PostScript Multiple
    Masters fonts and make up a version for DTP printing, but you could do the same.\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nFrom
    a typeface perspective, the book world is \"boring.\" There is no branding. Nothing
    to sell with the type or design. If the author writes poorly or has nothing to
    say, there will usually be no audience, no matter what typeface you pick. And
    it is easy to do damage with too much exuberance. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-17 12:50:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "IsleofGough, don't mind the fans - name the fonts you don't like. I don't
    like Trinit\xE9. I <em>used</em> to like it. But back then I also liked Caxton.
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nLexicon (which is still not my cup of Lapsang Soochong) is much more
    respectable.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>usually with just the Latin alphabet itself.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually
    the Latin alphabet is too boring. For one thing it uses the vertical space very
    poorly, especially when you factor in letter frequency.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>They
    trust that I won't butcher their work.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nProbably, but much
    more significantly: they trust you won't redistribute the modified version.\r\n\r\nBTW
    the Adobe Originals still allow modification.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Nothing to sell
    with the type or design.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOf course this makes no sense. Type
    design may not transform a horrible author, but anybody making or choosing a font
    nonetheless has a responsibility; to me anybody lacking a grasp of how text fonts
    manipulate the reader's unconscious -certainly at the level of texture if not
    individual letterforms- is only half a designer. Consciousness is over-rated,
    and \"boring\" (which is better called \"translucency\" - not even \"transparency\")
    is just another factor in design. So using Minion can make sense, but it makes
    a lot less sense than some people like to believe.\r\n\r\nBranding is everywhere,
    because humans are awesome observers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-17 14:34:08'
- author:
    name: Delete
  body: "I am kicking myself for having lost the multiple master versions of Jenson
    and Minion; but with moves, computer crashes, changing operating systems, suboptimal
    backup practices, and believing the hype that optical variants of opentype made
    them obsolete - they are gone.\r\n\r\nI am guilty in comparing the beautiful and
    best books in letterpress against the average today. It is not only the minor
    variability in letter placement, but also the look of how the ink lies on the
    paper, the smell and feel of the paper and binding, the book proportions, etc.
    that sum together into the experience of reading these.\r\n\r\nMy taste has changed
    some over the years. At one time I really liked documenta, but now I use it little.
    I still secretly like Calisto and once liked old style 7, and enjoyed several
    Bertholdt fonts. Lexicon is ok for newspapers, but I think it made too many compromises
    and lost some beauty. Many Adobe fonts are not bad, but they always seem to come
    in a second or third choice for me. Many of their designers are still living and
    have no doubt a better eye than I do...\r\n\r\nI would agree that while type that
    consciously is noticed is bad for books, an unconscious feeling is desirable.
    However, these days, the pick may have more to do with extended foreign language
    support, legalities or embedding or modification, or whether one needs a lot of
    italics or a matching sans, etc. Even in books about type, I have seen Minion,
    Galliard, Sabon, and Scala used - and I still think Minion is more boring that
    just transparent, compared with the alternatives."
  created: '2013-03-17 15:23:16'
- author:
    name: Delete
  body: "Thank you for your comments. I have a fondness for books printed with metal
    type in classic fonts like Bembo,  Sabon, Dante, Bulmer or even Caledonia. However,
    the digital version many of these (even Bembo Book) do not do the originals justice.
    The most flagrant example is Centaur (not really a book font, excluding the Oxford
    Bible) which was beautiful in metal type and pretty much unusable in its digital
    version. However, the practicalities of the linotype and monotype machines made
    proportions of these metal types much more restrictive than more modern digital
    typefaces designed without such constraints.\r\nThere are similar examples in
    typefaces that originated for photocomposition that don't quite work in their
    digital equivalents.\r\nSo if classic fonts mean those in the 1980s and 1990s
    at least loosely modeled after type from the 1400s onwards created as digital
    type, then that is only somewhat classic. It seems there have been two trends
    over the past decade or so: one to make some of the forms more authentic (accounting
    for ink spread with denser type - like ITC Mendoza) or more accurate renditions
    (Adobe Garamond Premier Pro vs Garamond Pro) and the other to incorporate newer
    elements and be less bound by classical forms. Some give a nod to French Oldstyles
    (like the wonderful Scala Serif and Sans) but are probably most successful because
    they are not too close a match.\r\nThere are a few classics I dislike (probably
    my deficiencies in taste): Jannon/Kis, Bembo Book, most ITC typefaces including
    ITC Baskerville, digital Bulmer, Galliard, and a great many Adobe fonts (not to
    be named in case their fans are here). Some of the more modern interpretations
    of older fonts are more successful: Mercury, Premiera, Documenta (only if set
    small), Iowan OS, scala, Albertina, Merlo, Quadraat, Cycles, Collis, Sina, and
    possibly Dolly (I own it but never quite can use it). Minion is ok but too boring.
    Lyon is not bad and I am currently experimenting with Sina Nova. My favorite is
    Trinite, but it is best reserved or just the right situation. I probably should
    just learn the classics better, since even a great font can look bad if the whitespace,
    leading, page dimensions, or printing are subobtimal.\r\nI haven't had much luck
    with finding a free font that works. Some are well designed but don't fit the
    types of things I do.\r\nI just was hoping for inspiration, but the reality is
    the best book font is subtle enough to almost be unnoticed - just to create a
    welcoming feeling to the reader. I am not sure it even needs to be authentic (like
    a Baskerville for a book about the turn of the 18th century). It just has to be
    inviting and contribute to enjoyment and comprehension of the novel, poetry, or
    scientific text.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 17:02:26'
date: '2010-07-09 20:15:54'
title: Absolutely best free alternative fonts for newbie designers?

---
