---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "What are the origins of [[Hebrew]]?\r\n\r\nThis has been a debate among scholars
  for many centuries.\r\n\r\nLike the age of the universe, scholars can't seem to
  make up their minds. \r\n\r\nWhen I was but a mere lad, scholars argued the universe's
  age was many a million years old. They scoffed at Bible-belt believers who foolishly
  thought that the universe was about 5,700 years old. Bible scholars rushed in from
  the cold, and suggested that each day of creation equaled a million years. What
  a joke?\r\n\r\nBut how can we deny the validity of carbon-dating?\r\n\r\nThe holy
  Zohar explains that carbon dating is approximately accurate after the time of Noach's
  Flood, but fails in dating accurately before that time, as the conditions of the
  earth changed dramatically with the Flood, which encompassed the earth.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
  scholars have pondered the origins of Hebrew with only the historical proofs of
  scientific evidence, known as 'secular knowledge', but have ignored the knowledge
  provided to us in Talmudic and Kabbalistic information.\r\n\r\nNot having a complete
  picture of both sources of information, secular knowledge is not accurate, because
  by ignoring religious knowledge, incorrect inferences are made."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Dear xxxx,\r\n\r\nThe comprehensive Jewish perspective on anything encompasses
    both the historical proofs of scientific evidence, known as 'secular knowledge',
    and knowledge provided to us in Talmudic and Kabbalistic information.\r\n\r\nOften,
    secular knowledge is not accurate because by ignoring religious knowledge, incorrect
    inferences are made, as we find with this silly notion that Hebrew originated
    with Aramaic.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud states that the Hebrew letter forms are of Divine
    origin, unlike the languages and letter sets of all the other nations of the world.
    Anyone who has studied Hebrew grammar sees clearly that Hebrew is a pure mathematical
    and extremely logical language. Its letter forms are like fascinating pieces of
    artwork. Each letter thoughtfully designed, and is embued with rich numerical
    meanings.\r\n\r\nLet's look at the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, or aleph
    beis \u05D0\u05DC\u05E3 \u05D1\u05D9\u05EA. This letter is called, \u05D0. It
    is called by this name, because the first Hebrew letter represents the Premier
    Force of the Universe, \u05D0\u05DC\u05D5\u05E4\u05D5 \u05E9\u05DC \u05E2\u05D5\u05DC\u05DD.
    Why?\r\n\r\nLet's investigate.\r\n\r\nThe 'aleph' \u05D0 has three pieces two
    'yuhd'-like \u05D9 shapes on the upper right, and the lower left (reversed both
    horizontally and vertically), and the 'vov'-like \u05D5 shaped in the middle.\r\n\r\nThese
    shapes represent G-d Above (the yuhd-like \u05D9 shape on the upper right - yuhd
    \u05D9 equals ten, for the ten Sephirot or Divine Attributes), human being below
    (the yuhd-like \u05D9 shape on the bottom left - yuhd \u05D9 equals ten, for the
    ten corresponding Midot \u05DE\u05D9\u05D3\u05D5\u05EA, or Attributes), and in
    the middle, connecting the top and the bottom is the vov-like \u05D5 shaped in
    the middle, which equal six.\r\n\r\nAll together, the three parts of the 'aleph'
    \u05D0 equals twenty-six, which is the holy Name of G-d \u05D9-\u05D4\u05D5\u05D4
    (which we do not spell out, or pronounce). So, we see that the aleph \u05D0 in
    deed represents G-d, the Premier Force of the Universe, \u05D0\u05DC\u05D5\u05E4\u05D5
    \u05E9\u05DC \u05E2\u05D5\u05DC\u05DD.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nIsrael\r\n\r\nPS
    I seek to post this, as it addresses a basic point about the origins of Hebrew.\r\n\r\n=================\r\n\r\nHello,\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    was reading an article which was basing much of it's information on Wikipedia
    articles, so I wanted to reach out to someone who might be more knowledgeable.
    I had an email correspondence with your friend xxxxx about it, as I had also recently
    learned of him (through the AIGA article). I'd like to know your (more religious)
    thoughts.\r\n\r\nThe article (Smashing Magazine: http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/06/22/the-beauty-of-typography-writing-systems-and-calligraphy-part-2/)
    states that the Hebrew alphabet is a descendant of the Aramaic, which is itself
    a descendant of the Phonecian alphabet. Since there are so many laws surrounding
    the writing of the Torah, in that it must be copied from another scroll, wouldn't
    that make the Hebrew alphabet at the latest from year ~1300 BCE? Wouldn't that
    predate Aramaic by ~300 years, as well as make it about/at least as old as the
    Phonecian alphabet?\r\n\r\nScott's response was that the laws surrounding the
    writing of a Torah scroll cropped up later in history, such that it's possible
    original scrolls were written with different typefaces.\r\n\r\nGiven the divine
    nature of Hebrew, it would be my thought that Aramaic and Phonecian are derivatives
    of Hebrew - but maybe the Divine Hebrew letters had different forms than what
    we use today?\r\n\r\nIf you could shed some light on this, I'd appreciate it!\r\n\r\nregards,\r\n\r\nxxxx"
  created: '2010-07-12 21:53:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Hi Israel,\r\n\r\nThanks for the reply! I was unaware of all the kabbalistic
    reasoning behind the forms of the letters as we have them. I did know that R\"
    Akiva would \"darshan on the crowns of the letters of the torah\" and assumed
    the letters as we have them are of divine origin, which is why I was surprised
    by the original article.\r\n\r\nOf course, there are always holes in science when
    there is inaccurate or undiscovered information, but I was surprised at the statement
    that Hebrew originated from Aramaic. Also, I thought it could simply be a \"labeling\"
    issue - maybe what's referred to as North Semitic (which I've not seen any inscriptions/writings
    of) might actually be Hebrew...\r\n\r\nregards,"
  created: '2010-07-12 22:09:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I was unaware of all the kabbalistic reasoning behind the forms of the
    letters as we have them...\r\n\r\nActually, what I mentioned earlier about the
    aleph's \u05D0 numerical association with the Divinity, by investigating the aleph's
    \u05D0 graphic parts is but a tip of the proverbial iceberg.\r\n\r\nThe very shapes
    of the Hebrew letters contain much meaning. These insights are not only derived
    from its shapes and positions, but they are also discovered from the shapes and
    positions of their white or empty places.\r\n\r\nFor example, the basic difference
    between the chet \u05D7 and the hei \u05D4 is the small empty space on the left
    hand upper vertical bar, as if to allow air to be expressed. Similarly, the sound
    associated with the chet \u05D7 is guteral, while the sound associated with the
    hei \u05D4 is soft and airy.\r\n\r\nWhen Rabbi Akiva, one of the greatest Torah
    scholars of all times, expounded the meanings of the crowns on the Hebrew letters
    in the Torah scroll, G-d Al-mighty and his faithful servant Moses listened intently
    too. Moses began to weep, as he was not privy to this information.\r\n\r\nG-d
    consoled Moses, by explaining that even these esoteric lessons were derived from
    the Torah of Moses, as we say: \"\u05DB\u05DC \u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05EA\u05DC\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3
    \u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05E7 \u05E0\u05D7\u05D3\u05E9 \u05D1\u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4,
    \u05E0\u05EA\u05D7\u05D3\u05E9 \u05D1\u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4 \u05DE\u05DE\u05E9\u05D4
    \u05DE\u05E1\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9\" \"Everything derived by a great Torah scholar
    was in deed derived from the Torah of Moses at Sinai\".\r\n\r\nEach letter contains
    amazing insights that defy human reason, and the very language itself is super-rational,
    proving to anyone who has a brain in his or her head, that Hebrew was not a human
    invention, like all the other languages of the world."
  created: '2010-07-12 22:40:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The Talmud states that the Hebrew letter forms are of Divine origin, unlike
    the languages and letter sets of all the other nations of the world.\r\n\r\nCould
    you give the citation, Israel?\r\n\r\nI know it says in Avot 5:9 that writing
    was invented by God, but nothing about Hebrew there. "
  created: '2010-07-13 02:09:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI began to research the subject already; I will provide you
    with both citations and pertinent selected texts in English. Most sources are
    in Hebrew only.\r\n\r\nAvot is 5:6. \r\n\r\nMany commentators say that this refers
    to (a) the engravings on the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments, in which the
    letter forms were engraved through the entire stone tablets, from one side to
    another, and to (b) the content of those engravings, ie. the Ten Commandments.\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    we shall discuss this first.\r\n\r\nBut clearly you see from these two citings,
    ie. the Medrashic teaching about Moses viewing Rabbi Akiva's analysis of the meaning
    of the taggim, or crowns, upon certain Hebrew letters in a Torah scroll, and the
    discussion of Avot, based upon sources in the Holy Scripture, about the engraved
    Hebrew letterforms, that Aramaic was NOT the source for the Hebrew alphabet.\r\n\r\nBoth
    Moses and the Tablets, and Rabbi Akiva, lived prior to the invention of Aramaic.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    Avot declares that the Hebrew letters engraved on the Tablets were \"created\"
    on the eve of the first Sabbath, when the entire world was created.\r\n\r\nNow,
    we clearly see that it is silly to link the origins of Hebrew letters to Aramaic."
  created: '2010-07-13 14:46:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In Avot 5:5, ten entities are listed that preceded creation. The last three
    concern us here.\r\n\r\n8. The writing of the Torah Scroll\r\n9. The inscription
    on the Tablets\r\n10. The very Tablets themselves\r\n\r\nThis is discussed in
    the Bible, Exodus 32:16; see Nachmonides' comments there.\r\n\r\nExodus 32:16\r\n\"The
    Tablets were a work of G-d; the writing (upon them) was the Writing of G-d, engraved
    upon (or through) the Tablets\".\r\n\r\nSee Maimonides' comments on Avot 5:5,
    in his Commentary on the Mishnah. The Moznaim Publishers of NY and Jerusalem has
    an English-Hebrew edition, available from www.eichers.com.\r\n\r\nHis comments
    in the Introduction to his Mishnah Torah, in the very beginning, elaborate upon
    this."
  created: '2010-07-13 15:32:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Apparently, William, you have \"Sayings of the Fathers\" by Rabbi Dr. Joseph
    H. Hertz zal, the former Chief Rabbi of England, published by Behrman House, which
    places this teaching on Avot 5:9. See his comments there on pp. 88-89.\r\n\r\nThe
    letters themselves existed miraculously. Even though they were engraved from one
    side to another, they appeared in the correct order on both sides - not humanly
    possible.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud states that there are two styles of Hebrew type design.
    One kind is reserved for the Torah scroll, and holy writing. The other kind is
    used for common discussions.\r\n\r\nEven in the printing of the Talmud itself,
    two styles are common. The main text appears in classic square letters, like Bodoni
    in Hebrew. Commentaries are traditionally typeset in a script-like type design,
    known as Rashi letters.\r\n\r\nIn the Dead Sea Scrolls, we also find a similar
    trait. Scriptures are typeset in a classic typeface, while other texts describing
    laws and customs are typeset differently.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, Frederick Goudy,
    the famous American type designer, writes the Mr. Romm senior traveled from Vilna,
    Lithuania, to Italy,, to commission students of by Giambattista Bodoni (1740\u20131813)
    [see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bodoni ]to master and cut Hebrew typefaces
    for his illustrious printing house based upon ancient (Sephardic) drawings of
    Hebrew square letters.\r\n\r\nSo, we see that the classic square letters of Vilna
    were Sephardic in origin. This was later confirmed by the contemporary type designer,
    John Hudson, in discussing his work known as 'Adobe Hebrew'.\r\n\r\nHence, from
    the Dead Sea Scrolls' images, and from Frederick Goudy's account, the classic
    Hebrew letter forms were not at all similar to the Aramaic alphabet, or even to
    the Assyrian script.\r\n\r\nToday, many Arabic letters share similar names as
    their Hebrew counterparts. Only a fool would suggest that the design found in
    block Hebrew letters compare to the design of Arabic script, which is like swift
    handwriting."
  created: '2010-07-13 16:03:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: To see an explicit description of the Divine origins of the Hebrew letters,
    see Nachmonides' comments in the beginning of the book of Exodus, parshat Ki Tissa,
    cited earlier.
  created: '2010-07-13 16:05:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: This appears in English by ArtScroll (www.artscroll.com).
  created: '2010-07-13 16:06:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "See \"Ahrachim\", Volume Letters, by Kehos (www.kehotonline.com), p. 14,
    B. Their Form\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aachim pp14-15_4223.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-13 16:29:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Arachim, p. 14\r\nB. Their Form\r\n\r\n\"The t'muna, picture or image, of
    the letters is from a 'halacha to Moses on Mt. Sinai.'\"\r\n\r\nThis is a standard
    Talmudic phrase regarding an issue of Biblical measures, even superior to them,
    for Moses heard it directly from G-d Al-mighty.\r\n\r\n\"Each letter form is relative
    to the spiritual chemestry of a different supernal dimension, or world\".\r\n\r\nSee
    there, and refer to its comprehensive footnotes."
  created: '2010-07-13 16:43:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Hence, we see that the model for the Hebrew letter forms are rooted in lofty
    spiritual levels which existed prior to our world as we know it, ie. in Divinity
    itself.
  created: '2010-07-13 16:46:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "clarification\r\n\r\n>> In the Dead Sea Scrolls, we also find a similar trait.
    Scriptures are typeset in a classic typeface, while other texts describing laws
    and customs are typeset differently.\r\n\r\nThe Dead Sea Scrolls were not typeset
    in modern sense by machines. Rather, the letters were hand-drawn or scribed manually.\r\n\r\nEven
    though human hands scribed these works, as well as other scrolls and books, elaborately,
    and not as mere scribbling or handwriting. Type designs existed much before the
    invention of movable type and the printing press by Gutenberg, and those little
    known who preceded him."
  created: '2010-07-13 17:52:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, there is no single standard numbering for Avot. The way it is usually
    numbered in the Siddur and the way it is numbered in the Mishnah is different.
    I was using the Siddur numbering above. \r\n\r\nThough that mishnah is clearly
    talking about the Decalogue or \"Ten Commmandments\" in Avot, it doesn't say that
    the language was Hebrew. I take \"ketav\" to mean \"script\", with no particular
    script necessarily meant. In fact, if I remember correctly, the Rabbis discuss
    in the Talmud whether the Decalogue was in an Egyptian dialect, which Moses may
    have spoken, as the Sages knew that Hebrew was the language of Canaan. (Sorry
    I don't have the citation.) Abraham, the ancestor of the Jews in Egypt, may have
    spoken Aramaic at home, as he came originally from Babylonia, even though he spent
    a long time in Canaan. \r\n\r\nAs as liberal Jew, I'm sure my standards for judging
    these things are going to be very different from yours, so I doubt this is worth
    going into further. I'm willing to accept some divine inspiration for writing,
    but doubt that any particular script is privileged. "
  created: '2010-07-13 19:11:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: What do you mean by Hebrew writing in the context of this discussion? The
    typical Semitic alphabet, or the actual letter shapes? And if the shapes, then
    <em>which</em> shapes?
  created: '2010-07-14 00:24:16'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "According to http://www.mezuzah.net/scripts.html, the talmud tells that the
    \"ktav ashuri\" (the \"assyrian script\") is to be used for mezuzot, tefilin and
    sifrei torah;  the same site shows a sample of \"ktav ivri\", \"hebrew script\",
    which was quite different, and in common usage during the period of the first
    temple.  Interestingly enough, in this text from the dead sea scrolls, http://www.ancient-hebrew.org/31_psalm138.html,
    the tetragrammon is written with a variant of the \"ktav ivri\" (called \"middle
    hebrew\" by the author of the site) whereas the rest of the text is not.\r\n\r\nIt
    is also interesting to compare the \"ktav ivri\" of http://www.mezuzah.net/scripts.html
    to the phoenician alphabet, unicode range 10900-1091F, http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U10900.pdf."
  created: '2010-07-14 02:08:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I view the stuff that Israel talked about in another thread, and is
    raising again here as \"aggadah\", stories in Jewish tradition that can be moving,
    entertaining, or annoying, depending, but not to be taken seriously as literal
    truths that are a basis for any decision. This is actually the traditional attitude
    toward them, but not of some mystics and Chassids, like Israel. \r\n\r\nSo for
    example there's the story that \"truth\" in Hebrew, emet (aleph, mem, tav) is
    solid as the letters all stand on a stable base, where as \"lie\" in Hebrew sheker
    (shin, kof, resh), stand on one leg, and so are unstable\u2014so that the truth
    will stand and a lie fall down. \r\n\r\nI view this as a nice homily\u2014well
    not that great, if you want to know the truth, as some lies seem to do pretty
    well\u2014but not to be taken as some literal divine message about either letter
    shapes or morals. \r\n\r\nIf you bring in history and get real about the history
    of script, as Michel does, I'm with you, but I don't think Israel is interested
    in that. The irony is that the Sages were sometimes interested in the history.
    \r\n\r\nThe interesting thing about the mention of the writing, stylus and tablets
    in Avot 5:9, is that it's to me an attempt of the Rabbis to reconcile the Hebrew
    Bible with the Greek concept of the \"cosmos\", a world ordered by natural law.
    They were disturbed by the events contrary to the order of nature\u2014one kind
    of miracle in the Torah\u2014in light of the Greek concept, and so said that everything
    contrary to natural law was actually created in the last moment of twilight before
    the world was finished, and the first Shabbat began. These miracles include the
    ten commandments to be discovered by Moses, which this story puts there from the
    beginning of time\u2014writing, the stylus, and the tablets. At least that's my
    interpretation. You'll get a different story from Israel :) \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 03:23:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William, apparently, the Mishnah's system is most accurate, and later discrepentcies
    resulted from printers' errors. Do you agree?\r\n\r\nI never heard that the Ten
    Commandments were in any other language besides Hebrew, except in a Cecille B.
    Damille movie staring the late Charleton Heston playing Moses.\r\n\r\nA Reform
    rabbi advised Damille.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud says in a few places that it was in Hebrew.
    This is elaborated from the above book by Rabbi Yoel Kahan Shlita. \"Hebrew words
    are loftier than Hebrew letter forms.\" In fact, the specific pronunciation through
    a Hebrew words' vowels is even higher.\r\n\r\nOf course, I refer not to physical
    height or distance, as Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz/Even Yisroel Shlita explains in English
    in his profound book, \"The Four Worlds\", available from http://www.barnesandnoble.com.\r\n\r\nThere,
    he explains that these kabbalistic terms refer to dimensions in space, as discussed
    in literature of Modern Physics.\r\n\r\nDo we have any parallel iin Reform Judaism
    literature, William?\r\n\r\nIf you one day find a source for Cecille B. Damille's
    depiction, please share it with me.\r\n\r\n\r\n>> Abraham, the ancestor of the
    Jews in Egypt, may have spoken Aramaic at home, as he came originally from Babylonia,
    even though he spent a long time in Canaan.\r\n\r\nThis is incorrect. \r\n\r\nAt
    that time in Mesopotania, Aramaic did not exist yet. During the Temple and Talmudic
    period, it was invented.\r\n\r\nSee http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persian_language,
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Persian, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iranian_languages,
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avestan_language, and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesopotamia.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    As as liberal Jew, I'm sure my standards for judging these things are going to
    be very different from yours, so I doubt this is worth going into further. I'm
    willing to accept some divine inspiration for writing, but doubt that any particular
    script is privileged.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I too am a liberal Jew. I was raised in
    a Reform Judaism home. I believe in social equality and other liberal causes like
    you.\r\n\r\nLet's not judge anything. Look at the facts. A famous Jewish principle
    comments that a difference of opinion can not apply to facts.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    blindly believing that no \"particular script is privileged\" is naive and ignores
    reality.\r\n\r\nLike the assimilated Jews in Germany, the birthplace of the roots
    of Reform Judaism, these people also naively thought that German culture would
    never produce a mass genocide, for the Jewish culture would melt in, like butter
    in a pot (sic). \r\n\r\nBut their wishful thinking did not stop the Holocaust,
    denied now by so many.\r\n\r\nWake up, spell the coffee. Be a proud Jew, and embrace
    authentic Judaism.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 04:05:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> What do you mean by Hebrew writing in the context of this discussion?
    The typical Semitic alphabet, or the actual letter shapes? And if the shapes,
    then which shapes?\r\n\r\nJohn, Hebrew writing encompasses two facets. (a) the
    intellectual content articulated by words and thoughts, like chanting or meditating.
    (b) the images associated with each Hebrew letter, and its form.\r\n\r\nThe text
    above explains that each Hebrew letter uniquely portrays a different \"world\".\r\n\r\nBtw,
    hi John, it was a long haul to hell and back! Your prayers helped. :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 04:12:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> According to...\r\n\r\nMichel,\r\n\r\nClearly, one depiction is correct,
    for we see it in every Mezuzah, Tefillin, and Torah scroll, for the last 3,300
    years about.\r\n\r\nKtav Ivrit is not a fixed design, as we see different designs
    in different typefaces, drawings, manuscripts and scrolls.\r\n\r\nIn fact, the
    design portrayed there is the least documented, or even never documented.\r\n\r\nI
    think Cecille believed that one. :)"
  created: '2010-07-14 04:25:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Well, I view...\r\n\r\nWilliam, let's focus on type design.\r\n\r\n1.
    What are the ramifications to Hebrew type design as we practice it, if they indeed
    have a divine origin?\r\n\r\n2. Can we incorporate these divine lessons to improve
    Hebrew type design?\r\n\r\n3. Can these rules of improvement be applied to other
    letter sets of different languages.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 04:31:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "You may well be right about Aramaic not being the language of Abraham, according
    to what I now read on the wikipedia article \"Akkadian\" it could be that the
    language called \"Old Babylonian\" or \"Old Assyrian\", the language of Hammurabi,
    if the usual dates of Abraham\u2014around 1700 BCE are correct. It's a Semitic
    language, but not Hebrew (or Aramaic). \r\n\r\nHowever Torah itself calls Jacob,
    grandchild of Abraham an Aramean, in the passage (Deut. 26:5) discussed in the
    Haggadah: \"arami oved avi\"  \"A wandering Aramean was my father.\" According
    to the wikipedia on the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aramaeans|Arameans]] they
    go back to 1900 BCE, so maybe the Torah is right\u2014I'm surprised you contradict
    it :) \r\n\r\n(I know there's another reading, but still...) \r\n\r\nAccording
    to the article on [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aramaic_language#Old_Aramaic|Aramaic]],
    you are not correct that Aramaic was invented during the Temple period. It was
    current in Babylonia in 1200, BCE, roughly the time of Moses, and several hundred
    years before Solomon built the Temple in Jerusalem. \r\n\r\nI don't know that
    the numbering in the Mishnah is more accurate, though I haven't studied this and
    am not sure. The version of Avot in the Siddur I am guessing goes back to the
    Mahzor Vitry, and the manuscripts are of it are of approximately equal antiquity
    to the manuscripts of the Mishnah. Also the wording of Avot was unfortunately
    not kept with the same care as the Torah, and there are minor variations from
    manuscript to manuscript.\r\n\r\nSo I think neither are entirely reliable. There
    is a recent scholarly work on the text of Avot, in Hebrew, but I haven't looked
    at it, and my Hebrew is alas not that good in any case. \r\n\r\nMore later..."
  created: '2010-07-14 05:59:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Pretty much every literate culture in the world seems to have some kind of
    myth of divine or mystical origin for its writing system. I take this simply as
    indicative of just how important and all-changing the introduction of writing
    is to any society: it is one of those few key changes -- like the advent of agriculture
    or metallurgy -- that transform almost every aspect of a society. And hence it
    gets recorded in the most important stories that a society tells to itself that
    help make sense of its experience. The ancient Egyptians, for example, considered
    writing to have been invented by the Ibis-headed god Thoth. The Greeks believed
    that writing was invented by the semi-mythological prince of Tyre, Cadmus, and
    Greek mystic tradition linked the invention of the alphabet to Cadmus' sowing
    of the dragon's teeth that grew up to become an army, recognising the power of
    literacy to marshall and regulate a society.\r\n\r\nThe earliest known forms of
    Hebrew letters are completely indistinguishable in their typical shapes from those
    used to write Canaanite and other languages. Only the language of the text written
    makes it possible to speak of 'Hebrew' writing as something distinct: the shapes
    are common to all contemporary literate cultures of the region. Some of the earliest
    fragments of writing from ancient Canaan are apparently so small -- on broken
    shards of pottery -- that it isn't possible to determine the language, and hence
    it isn't possible to determine if this is Hebrew writing or the writing of some
    other language that used the same letters."
  created: '2010-07-14 06:26:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, I'm not finding any speculation on whether the script on the tablets
    was not Hebrew. But there is a discussion in the Jerusalem Talmud (Meg. 1:11 71c)
    on it being in the ancient Hebrew script, not the currently used \"ketav ashuri\",
    the Assyrian script. The rabbis of the Talmud were well aware that the current
    script was not the original, and they ascribed the adoption of the current, very
    different script, which originated in Babylonia, where they had been exiled, to
    Ezra. \r\n\r\nThe point is, even if you read Avot 5:9 as claiming that God invented
    the script on the  Tablets of the Ten Commandments, and it was Hebrew, it wouldn't
    have been our current script. \r\n\r\nI believe, but I don't have the reference
    that the Rabbis were aware that Hebrew was originally the language of Canaan,
    as John notes, and it wouldn't have been Abraham's mother tongue.  "
  created: '2010-07-14 15:15:29'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Thank you John! What is this... my alphabet is better than your alphabet?
  created: '2010-07-14 16:10:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">my alphabet is better than your alphabet\r\n\r\nWell, that's Israel's view.
    I think it's not justified even by Talmudic standards, aside from its being silly
    and a bit offensive. \r\n\r\nAs to the awe people have for writing, and John's
    other stories of divine origin. For me personally I see some divinity in human
    creativity, so I'm willing to go there in saying that the invention of written
    language, including alphabetic scripts, has some divine inspiration. But narrowing
    it to one particular script seems to me, well, narrow. \r\n\r\nI'm all for giving
    the ancient Hebrews the credit where it's due, such as for the invention of the
    Sabbath (or discovering God's will concerning the Sabbath, if you want to put
    it the Orthodox Jewish way, as Israel would.) \r\n\r\nBut as for the invention
    of writing, it just won't fly. According to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_alphabet|what
    I have read]], the invention of alphabetic language is probably a result of simplification
    of a version of a version of hieroglyphics known as hieratic script. And both
    hieroglyphics and cuneiform were around for a thousand years before alphabetic
    scripts. And Chinese script evolves on a separate track. \r\n\r\nAlso personally,
    I find the \"solution\" to the problem of Biblical miracles in Avot 5:9 pretty
    weak. It's something like the late 19th century theory that God put created the
    world in six days with dinosaur bones in the ground. Clever, but not credible. "
  created: '2010-07-14 16:39:56'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: I would like to think such a wonderful gift (all alphabets) are divinely inspired
    through the hand of man. But to assume one is greater than the other is balderdash.
    G-d bless the alphabet for its ability to disseminate the word. Let it be less
    used for agenda. Thank you William. Congrats on Caslon. Just shy of divinely inspired
    :-)
  created: '2010-07-14 17:22:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "typerror >>>my alphabet is better than your alphabet\r\n\r\nWilliam >>> Well,
    that's Israel's view. \r\n\r\n\r\nExcuse me. What a big misread.\r\n\r\ntyperror,
    perhaps you and Bill can rename yourselves as misread1 and misread2.\r\n\r\nDivine
    or human origin is NOT a qualitative judgment.\r\n\r\nJews have 613 instructions,
    but gentiles have only the seven Noachide rules. No one is better or worst. In
    a way, Jews have over many more chances to screw up!\r\n\r\nThe three questions
    presented earlier explain why origins matter.\r\n\r\n=========\r\n\r\ngohebrew\r\n13.Jul.2010
    8.31pm\r\n\r\nI repeat them:\r\n\r\n\r\n1. What are the ramifications to Hebrew
    type design as we practice it, if they indeed have a divine origin?\r\n\r\n2.
    Can we incorporate these divine lessons to improve Hebrew type design?\r\n\r\n3.
    Can these rules of improvement be applied to other letter sets of different languages?\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 17:32:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "To clarify, everything in this and every world indeed stems from G-d.\r\n\r\nSome
    things are direct results from Divine causes, and other things are indirect.\r\n\r\nG-d
    left the world in an imperfect or incomplete state, known as 'tikkun olam'. All
    major tracks within Judaism accept the duty of 'tikkun olam'. It's just defined
    differently.\r\n\r\nG-d gave directions about how to complete the job, and singled
    out a nation, its language, and alphabet, to guide people to the right goal.\r\n\r\nNo
    one is grading anyone else or belittling other nations, languages, and alphabets.\r\n\r\nL'chayim."
  created: '2010-07-14 17:55:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "G-d gave directions about how to complete the job, and singled out a nation,
    its language, and alphabet, to guide people to the right goal.\r\n\r\nBy this
    very statement you are making my point!\r\n\r\nCheers :-)"
  created: '2010-07-14 17:59:53'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It's the bottom of the ninth inning and the score is 613 to 7. Looks like
    a blowout by the Jews :-) Come on Israel, fess up to it!\r\n\r\nEvery post I have
    seen by you is agenda driven!!!!!"
  created: '2010-07-14 18:05:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, I'm sorry if I misread you, but I read you to say that the shapes
    of the current Hebrew alphabet (derived from Aramaic) are divine, and the shapes
    of no other writing system is directly from divine causes. Do I have that wrong?
    \r\n\r\nAlso I am doubtful that you can find any Jewish source before the middle
    ages that says such a thing. [The story of Rabbi Akiva interpreting the 'et' (direct
    object indicator) and the crowns (tagim) on letters is not a claim for the special
    sanctity of the script, but of the actual writing in the Torah.] \r\n\r\nMichael,
    thanks! \r\n\r\nAs to any divinity in the shapes, I think this is only in so far
    as they relate to the human eye-brain combination, assuming we are created ultimately
    by God. \u2014The way we behave, though, there is room for doubt! I would look
    first to our perceptual apparatus, and not mystics from any religion, for clues
    on type design. But if you have some ideas from the mystics, my mind is open,
    tell me about it. "
  created: '2010-07-14 18:12:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Let me meditate.\r\n\r\nNam yo ho ringay kiyo. \r\n\r\nHerbert Schwartz,
    down on 5th an New York,  just spoke to me out of nowhere, he said malarkey. :-)\r\n\r\nSorry
    Israel :-(   There is no other way to respond to this than the other great gift
    G-d gave us, humour!"
  created: '2010-07-14 18:20:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Is Herbert at ITC?
  created: '2010-07-14 18:34:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> G-d gave directions about how to complete the job, and singled out a
    nation, its language, and alphabet, to guide people to the right goal.\r\n\r\nBy
    this very statement you are making my point!\r\n\r\n>>> It's the bottom of the
    ninth inning and the score is 613 to 7. Looks like a blowout by the Jews :-) Come
    on Israel, fess up to it!\r\n\r\nEvery post I have seen by you is agenda driven!\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nMichael,\r\n\r\nThank
    you for sharing your views. But with all due respect, I differ.\r\n\r\nIf I was
    a shrinkk, I would advise you that you have poor self-esteem.\r\n\r\nA person
    suffers from poor self-esteem when he thinks others feel they are better than
    him.\r\n\r\nAccording to Rabbi Dr. Abraham Twersky, most people suffer from poor
    self-esteem.\r\n\r\nAgain, attributing the Divine to one thing and not to another
    does NOT indicate that the former is superior, or \"beats\", the other.\r\n\r\nLife
    is a bit more complex.\r\n\r\nJews do not believe in homogenized \"ticky-tacky\"
    people, all the same as each other. \r\n\r\nLife is in living color, and not in
    monochrome. If it were all the same and monotone, it'd be really boring.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 18:38:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "PS. In your questions, you move from \u2018divine origins\u2019 to \u2018divine
    lessons\u2019 to \u2018rules\u2019. There are a lot of steps missing along the
    way, so the latter two questions presume, I think, the particular significance
    and approaches of specific hermeneutic traditions. That's fair enough, in that
    you obviously are deeply embedded in these traditions, but you should recognise
    that much of what you presume to be the case remains open to question for other
    people."
  created: '2010-07-14 19:53:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel, let me try to answer your three questions.\r\n\r\n<em>1. What are
    the ramifications to Hebrew type design as we practice it, if they indeed have
    a divine origin?</em>\r\n\r\nThat it should be practised with great care, attention
    to quality in even the smallest detail; that our types should reflect the Lord's
    glory in both their beauty and utility.\r\n\r\nNow, I don't think one needs a
    theology of Hebrew writing in order to come to that conclusion <em>about any script</em>.
    A theology of creation is all you need. William writes that he sees \u2018some
    divinity in human creativity\u2019, and hence acknowledges that the invention
    of all human writing has some divine origin. I'd agree with that in terms of a
    general theology of creation. As a Catholic, I have a more specific theology of
    creation that all things are created <em>through</em> Christ in whom, as Saint
    Paul has it, \u2018we live and move and have our being\u2019, and that there is
    nothing without the continued will of God that it should be so. That is my theological
    tradition, and hence it informs my thinking about creativity, as do, for example,
    ideas that derive from that tradition such as the Thomistic tradition of in the
    philosophy of art, particularly as expressed in the writings of Jacques Maritain
    and my beloved David Jones.\r\n\r\nBut given even the most general theology of
    creation, I don't see how one can arrive at any other conclusion than that <em>all</em>
    human creativity should be guided by the criteria I suggest above: care, attention
    to detail, beauty and utility, etc..\r\n\r\nAnd maybe your ideas about the origin
    of the Hebrew script and about the interpretation of its forms might lead you
    to conclude that only an approach to Hebrew typeface design that incorporates
    these ideas is valid, that approaches that ignore these ideas are not proper.
    At that point, polite disagreement might be the only thing left in terms of dialogue
    with a lot of other Hebrew type designers. For me, it is in an important sense
    moot, because I'm of the view that when it comes to creative acts what matters
    is the thing made, not the things that went through the maker's mind while he
    was creating it.\r\n\r\n<em>2. Can we incorporate these divine lessons to improve
    Hebrew type design?</em>\r\n\r\nThis depends what you mean by lessons. Even if
    the Hebrew letters -- and again, which forms: the early, pre-exilic forms? the
    post-exilic square script forms? the special forms used in the sefer scrolls?
    -- were of <em>direct</em> divine origin, made by God and gifted to His chosen
    people, I would still see a distinction between those forms and the interpretation
    of their meaning within e.g. particular mystic traditions.\r\n\r\nNow, that interpretation
    is obviously going to be significant to an adherent of that tradition. So perhaps
    the question to ask is how to incorporate these \u2018divine lessons\u2019, as
    you see them in a kabbalistic tradition for example, in <em>your</em> typeface
    design. I'm obviously not an adherent of that tradition -- and, as I understand
    it, neither are very large numbers of Jews --, so for me the question is academic.
    In my experience, all sorts of complex cultural ideas can be expressed in the
    form of typography, so I don't doubt that you can find a way to incorporate the
    ideas of kabbala as they relate to letter shapes in your type design.\r\n\r\n<em>3.
    Can these rules of improvement be applied to other letter sets of different languages?</em>\r\n\r\nFrom
    my answers to the first two questions you can probably guess that I will arrive
    at two answers to this third question:\r\n\r\na) What holds true for Hebrew type
    design holds true for all creative acts: they should reflect God's glory in the
    way that His creation does. Even if the Hebrew script were in some way \u2018special\u2019
    in terms of its divine origin, would we be able to treat it any differently in
    type design than we treat any other script.\r\n\r\nb) If a script is culturally
    associated with particular traditions of understanding, then obviously it is likely
    to express those traditions more easily than a foreign script would. Sometimes,
    a cultural idea can find idiomatic expression in a foreign script, but very often
    what results is a kind of pastiche that does not honour the idea, but deforms
    or debases it. Think, for example, about Latin display fonts that try to look
    \u2018Asian\u2019 by incorporating some evocative shapes that encourage designers
    to use them in signage for Chinese restaurants. So I'm wary about such things.
    On the other hand, if an individual type design inhabits more than one culture
    then I can imagine how he or she might, over time, find ways to express the ideas
    of one culture within the formal structures of another."
  created: '2010-07-14 19:54:09'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nI have a short question for you. If the origins of the current
    square Hebrew alphabet are indeed divine, are we not committing an act against
    God by using it in such a colloquial manner? If the letters are of holy origin,
    and contain within them a spark of the divine, should they be employed in the
    marketing and sale of various products and services\u2014anything from the latest
    Hollywood vampire blockbuster, to erotic gay services on the web? (I don't mean
    to offend, just to make a point)\r\n\r\nI do not see how Hebrew is any holier
    than Urdu, or literary Arabic. Personally I believe that all languages are both
    holy and beautiful (with the notable exception of Klingon).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-14 20:13:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just so folks don''t get the wrong idea from Israel''s rather chauvinist
    views, I would like to note that in Judaism there is the principle that "the righteous
    of all nations will have a place in the world to come." Essentially we are all
    judged by the goodness of our actions, and not our beliefs. This contrasts with
    the views of many other religions which are much more harsh toward those who reject
    their views. '
  created: '2010-07-14 20:58:22'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Edit, YOU are truly unworthy of my input Israel! No self esteem issues on
    my part.
  created: '2010-07-14 21:36:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michael, why take it personal?\r\n\r\nIt was meant purely constructively.
    Take it as it was meant.\r\n\r\nWho is Herbert, and why was he on 5th - by the
    park and museum row?"
  created: '2010-07-14 22:56:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel, when you write something like \u2018If I was a shrink [sic], I would
    advise you that you have poor self-esteem\u2019, how is such a comment to be taken
    other than personally? It's a personal comment. I know that your main point was
    to affirm that the chosen-ness of the Jewish people does not imply a qualitative
    difference and hence that it is a mistake to interpret the claim in such a way,
    but your comment about poor self-esteem simply came across as personally insulting
    to Michael.\r\n\r\nMaybe you should avoid trying to use metaphors. They're getting
    lost in translation: even from English to English."
  created: '2010-07-14 23:08:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nIn most advanced societies, a doctor of the mind and heart,
    or in our land of the brave and...a 'shrink' is taboo, and his or her dirty practice
    is for sickies, and the mentally ill.\r\n\r\nHow is it perceived in Canada?\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that I have poor self-esteem. Then, again, Rabbi Israel, the famed
    Baal Shem Tov taught that if you perceive a fault by another, then you have it
    too, perhaps in a very different degree. \r\n\r\nSo, it's catchy, John, no?\r\n\r\nYour
    other point about my main point is on target.\r\n\r\nMetaphors?? Where fort art
    thou, o Johnio?\r\n\r\nPS I'm still curious about who Herbert is?"
  created: '2010-07-15 00:04:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> If the origins of the current square Hebrew alphabet are indeed divine,
    are we not committing an act against God by using it in such a colloquial manner?\r\n\r\nAdam,
    there is a great book by Zalman Posner of Nashville, called \"Think Jewish\".
    It postulates that most Jews in America do no 'think' Jew, for this is a Christian
    country, albeit very kind.\r\n\r\nDivine here is perceived as above everyday life.\r\n\r\nJudaism
    as taught by Chabad is into the here and now, and not in the high heavens.\r\n\r\nHence,
    using the holy Hebrew square letters is allowed and encouraged. But, \"everything
    was created for His glory\". So, these applications must be for the good."
  created: '2010-07-15 00:12:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n>>> 1. What are the ramifications to Hebrew type design as we
    practice it, if they indeed have a divine origin?\r\n\r\nThat it should be practiced
    with great care, attention to quality in even the smallest detail; that our types
    should reflect the Lord's glory in both their beauty and utility. <<<\r\n\r\nI
    agree."
  created: '2010-07-15 00:54:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> my beloved David Jones.\r\n\r\nWho is that?"
  created: '2010-07-15 00:56:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Israel's question\r\n>>> 2. Can we incorporate these divine lessons to improve
    Hebrew type design?\r\n\r\nJohn: This depends what you mean by lessons. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    mean by lessons the information and knowledge that was gathered when a designer
    discovered and learned more about the Divine origins of Hebrew letters."
  created: '2010-07-15 01:02:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> If the letters are of holy origin, and contain within them a spark of
    the divine, should they be employed in the marketing and sale of various products
    and services\u2014anything from the latest Hollywood vampire blockbuster, to erotic
    gay services on the web? (I don't mean to offend, just to make a point)\r\n\r\nAdam,
    holiness is everywhere, even in the gay bars.\r\n\r\nI firmly believe that one
    should condemn the practice, but not the one who practices."
  created: '2010-07-15 01:06:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> I do not see how Hebrew is any holier than Urdu, or literary Arabic.
    Personally I believe that all languages are both holy and beautiful (with the
    notable exception of Klingon).\r\n\r\nAdam, all languages are both holy and beautiful,
    though the forms are shallow.\r\n\r\nYet, most are human-made, but Hebrew is not.
    The actual language is supra-logical, and its letter forms are like works of art
    in their depth and meaning.\r\n\r\nDon't you see any difference?"
  created: '2010-07-15 01:17:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Now you have attacked John???  I do not even know him but he has proven,
    in previous posts, to be eloquent, fair, intelligent and thoughtful.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that you represent yourself with an Alef is repugnant to me! An affront to
    the alphabet!"
  created: '2010-07-15 01:21:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> might lead you to conclude that only an approach to Hebrew typeface design
    that incorporates these ideas is valid, that approaches that ignore these ideas
    are not proper\r\n\r\nThis is one of your possible conclusions.\r\n\r\nI have
    a different conclusion.\r\n\r\nAll design is valid, like all good art and music.
    However, good design imbued with the appropriate \"kavanas\", intent or inner
    meaning, can be even better.\r\n\r\nDo you see the differences between the two
    conclusions?"
  created: '2010-07-15 01:34:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nI never attacked John! He is far above a feeble attack. I
    respect him very highly.\r\n\r\nI apologize to you that my words were found offensive
    to you. Perhaps, you put it behind you, make amends, and let bygones be bygones.\r\n\r\nBob
    Dylan wrote that a poet (it could be an artist or type designer, too) stands outside,
    above society. That's why he can describe society so well. When you stand outside,
    above society, you are not affected by occurances in society - he said this, I
    said that..."
  created: '2010-07-15 01:42:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> I'm of the view that when it comes to creative acts what matters is the
    thing made, not the things that went through the maker's mind while he was creating
    it\r\n\r\nI agree...\"what matters is the thing made\".\r\n\r\nHowever, when the
    things that went through the maker's mind while he was creating it are meaningful,
    then that which is made is imbued with greater meaning, and hence more attractive."
  created: '2010-07-15 01:45:40'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Personally I do not like Bob Dylan or his views. Nor I yours!\r\n\r\nIt is
    not up to me to apologize or forgive!"
  created: '2010-07-15 01:59:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> Just so folks don't get the wrong idea from Israel's rather chauvinist
    views, I would like to note that in Judaism there is the principle that \"the
    righteous of all nations will have a place in the world to come.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    are my views \"rather chauvinist\"?\r\n\r\nIsn't chauvinist like the saying \"holier
    than thou\"? Condescending. Compartimentalizing others into categorizing?\r\n\r\nI
    try not to be a chauvinist. I try to be open-minded and flexible.\r\n\r\nTo be
    a Chabadnik today, one must be flexible, and accepting of others.\r\n\r\nUnlike
    many Reform Jews, I prefer not to only talk the talk, but to walk the walk."
  created: '2010-07-15 02:00:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>The actual language is supra-logical, and its letter forms are
    like works of art in their depth and meaning.</em>\r\n\r\nThe actual Hebrew language
    is part of the Canaanite branch of the Semitic language group within the Afroasiatic
    language family, with characteristics and origins in common with other languages
    of that branch and group. Most of the other ancient Canaanite languages are extinct,
    but we have enough literary and archaeological evidence to map their correspondences
    to contemporary ancient Hebrew. All of them were presumably used for liturgical
    and other religious purposes at some point, and I'm willing to bet that the speakers
    and writers of these languages all believed that theirs' was special and held
    some beliefs about its unique divine or mystical origin. Why? Because that's what
    people all over the world have done for millennia. Scientific linguistic analysis
    tells another story, though, which is less to do with uniqueness than with commonality,
    trade, movements of peoples, etc.\r\n\r\nCertain traditions in Jewish thought
    -- and I know from your previous discussions with William than not all Jews grant
    these traditions equal significance -- <em>assign</em> to the Hebrew letters --
    and I ask again: which forms? -- what might be termed deep meaning, i.e. meaning
    beyond the sounds that they conventionally represent in written speech. Again,
    this is not something unique to Judaism. The Germanic tribes assigned magical
    significance to their runic letters (a belief later adopted by Nazi occultists).
    The letters of the ancient Irish ogham script are associated with different trees.
    Gematria, which is central to kabbalah, is also found in ancient Assyrian inscriptions.
    This is just something that people do: assign extra-linguistic meaning to writing.
    Sometimes, this contributes to writing as art, but it is also worth pointing out
    that there are plenty of traditions of calligraphy in which the art is either
    purely formal or associated with ideas that are not directly linked to religious
    or mystical beliefs."
  created: '2010-07-15 02:02:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think it was regarding the menfolk of the tribe of Moab - was it, Bill
    - that King David refused to accept them as converts. Why? They lacked the common
    Jewish trait of \"rachmanut\", forgivingness (sic).\r\n\r\nThey missed out."
  created: '2010-07-15 02:05:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "In the spirit of forgiveness:\r\n\r\n\"I apologize to you that my words were
    found offensive to you. Perhaps, you put it behind you, make amends, and let bygones
    be bygones.\"\r\n\r\nYour apology comes with strings. I do not see contrition!
    I have nothing to make amends for!\r\n\r\nSorry John for derailing this thread!\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 02:38:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Que sera sera... I tried.\r\n\r\n\"I knocked on the heart,\r\nBut it did
    not respond.\"\r\nDylan"
  created: '2010-07-15 02:51:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John's post\r\n\r\n>>> Israel: The actual language is supra-logical, and
    its letter forms are like works of art in their depth and meaning.\r\n\r\n[John's
    response:] The actual Hebrew language is part of the Canaanite branch of the Semitic
    language group within the Afroasiatic language family, with characteristics and
    origins in common with other languages of that branch and group. ...\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nI
    was actually referring to the here and now...understand Hebrew today, and discovering
    about the meanings of its letter forms and parts.\r\n\r\nAnyone objective and
    sensitive would conclude similarly, not just a devotee, even an intelligent person
    of a different faith."
  created: '2010-07-15 03:28:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>In most advanced societies, a doctor of the mind and heart, or
    in our land of the brave and...a 'shrink' is taboo, and his or her dirty practice
    is for sickies, and the mentally ill.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you mean by
    this comment, but surely the point here is that <em>you,</em> Israel, are <em>not</em>
    a doctor of the mind and your \u2018diagnosis\u2019 of Michael's objection to
    your special claims for the Hebrew script and language as evidence of \u2018poor
    self-esteem\u2019 was simply insulting. There's no two ways about this, no wiggle
    room: you insulted Michael and it is up to you, not him, to make amends. I've
    known Michael on Typophile for a about as long as I have known you, and I don't
    doubt that he would be willing to accept a contrite apology."
  created: '2010-07-15 04:07:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>I was actually referring to the here and now...understand Hebrew
    today, and discovering about the meanings of its letter forms and parts.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Anyone
    objective and sensitive would conclude similarly, not just a devotee, even an
    intelligent person of a different faith.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry Israel, but you
    are talking about particular \u2018meanings of letter forms and parts\u2019 that
    are assigned to Hebrew in the context of particular traditions of the Rabbinic
    period, and in particular those ideas that relate to the origin of the script
    and language. You can't dodge now and say that you are only interested in understanding
    \u2018Hebrew today\u2019 when your understanding involves claims about its origin.
    You have to face the historical linguistic record.\r\n\r\nWhat I see is a language
    that is closely related to other languages descended from a common mother, and
    two ancient forms of writing that language: one using letters that are clearly
    derived from those common to other ancient Canaanite languages, and another using
    letters that were adopted during the Babylonian exile by the Jews, as their own
    history records, from the Aramaic script used in Babylon. So I don't see evidence
    for anything unique or special about Hebrew language or script that isn't just
    historical mythologising of the kind that occurs in many other literate cultures
    with complex religious and mystical traditions."
  created: '2010-07-15 04:19:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "A statement such as this: \"Not having a complete picture of both sources
    of information, secular knowledge is not accurate, because by ignoring religious
    knowledge, incorrect inferences are made.\", which was in your first post, while
    understandable from someone whose religious beliefs extend to empirical content
    (i.e., one who could potentially reject evolution in favor of Creation) will be
    automatically rejected by scientists for one very good reason.\r\n\r\nIt may be
    that there is a God. And if there is a God, there is certainly no good reason
    why He couldn't work miracles.\r\n\r\nHowever, some people in this world are Hindus,
    because their parents were Hindus. Some people are Buddhists, because their parents
    were Buddhists. Some are Muslims because their parents are Muslims. And so on
    and so forth.\r\n\r\nIt is not unreasonable that there may be a God.\r\n\r\nIt
    is unreasonable, however, to uncritically assume that one just happens to have
    been one of the lucky ones to have been born into the one faith that contains
    the true message from God.\r\n\r\nSo, scientists really do have to reject using
    the local sacred scriptures as a source of knowledge... and it really isn't because
    religious teachings would trouble their consciences or something like that."
  created: '2010-07-15 04:40:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John: >>> Israel: In most advanced societies, a doctor of the mind and heart,
    or in our land of the brave and...a 'shrink' is taboo, and his or her dirty practice
    is for sickies, and the mentally ill.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you mean by this
    comment, ...\r\n\r\nIsrael (new):This was incomplete, and an unclear thought.\r\n\r\nIn
    the advanced United States, the occupation of the \"shrinks\" is still viewed
    as the domain of the mentally ill. They are \"medical health professionals\",
    whose goal is to heal the heart and mind, like any physician who heals the body.\r\n\r\nPoor
    self esteem is a common ailment, but in the glorious land of \"freedom of speech\"
    its expression does not warrant insults and put downs.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nJohn:
    >>> ...but surely the point here is that you, Israel, are not a doctor of the
    mind and your \u2018diagnosis\u2019 of Michael's objection to your special claims
    for the Hebrew script and language as evidence of \u2018poor self-esteem\u2019
    was simply insulting....\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): Your involvement and brotherly care
    is sincerely admirable, and worthy of emulation.\r\n\r\nMichael, I truly am sorry
    if my remark hurt your feelings. This was not my intention. Please forgive me.\r\n\r\nI
    mistakenly thought that the phrase \"make amends\" merely meant \"let us be friends
    again\". However, I learned very recently (http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/amends)
    that it means more than that: \"Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense;
    reparation. Amends were made for the damage and no charges were filed.\"\r\n\r\nDid
    you do harm or injury? I clearly did to you, evidenced by your response.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 07:13:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John's post\r\n\r\n>>> Israel: I was actually referring to the here and now...understand
    Hebrew today, and discovering about the meanings of its letter forms and parts.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    objective and sensitive would conclude similarly, not just a devotee, even an
    intelligent person of a different faith. <<<\r\n\r\nJohn: \r\n>>> I'm sorry Israel,
    but you are talking about particular \u2018meanings of letter forms and parts\u2019
    that are assigned to Hebrew in the context of particular traditions of the Rabbinic
    period... <<<\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): These comments refer to both recent square
    letters (the Dead Sea Scrolls featured them too, and they weren't recent) and
    the \"Ktav Ashurite\". Btw, \"Ktav Ashurite\" does not refer to Asyrian, as William
    suggested. Rather, \"Ktav Ashurite\" refers to Ashir or wealthy, ie. rich lettering.
    This is defined in the Talmud for over 2000 years.\r\n\r\n>>> ...You can't dodge
    now and say that you are only interested in understanding \u2018Hebrew today\u2019
    when your understanding involves claims about its origin. You have to face the
    historical linguistic record.\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): I am not dodging, nor saying
    that. You are.\r\n\r\nWhat I mean is simple. Anyone who simple Hebrew grammar
    and word structure must confess that no language resembles Hebrew. Scholars may
    attempt to group it with another set of Canaanite languages, but nowhere is there
    a language with Hebrew's infrastructure.\r\n\r\nIf you knew Hebrew intimately,
    you too would humbly reject \"the historical linguistic record\".\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 07:30:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "quadibloc's post\r\n\r\n>>> A statement such as this: \"Not having a complete
    picture of both sources of information, secular knowledge is not accurate, because
    by ignoring religious knowledge, incorrect inferences are made.\", which was in
    your first post, while understandable from someone whose religious beliefs extend
    to empirical content (i.e., one who could potentially reject evolution in favor
    of Creation) will be automatically rejected by scientists for one very good reason.\r\n\r\nIsrael
    (new): I logically disagree.\r\n\r\n>>> It may be ...\r\n\r\nIt is unreasonable
    ...\r\n\r\nSo, scientists really do have to reject using the local sacred scriptures
    as a source of knowledge... and it really isn't because religious teachings would
    trouble their consciences or something like that.\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): Your
    argument has nothing too do with my postulation.\r\n\r\nScience is pure truth.
    The study of a theory in a controlled environment with controlled sample cases.\r\n\r\nCertain
    \"religious teachings\" about the structure of a language, and the significance
    of its letter forms and parts, are in deed \"a controlled environment with controlled
    sample cases\".\r\n\r\nYet the preference to reject them is unscientific, on the
    grounds of its being mere \"religious teachings\", the realm of the irrational
    and soothsayers.\r\n\r\nI am sorry, but such a response is not the realm of objectiveness
    and intelligence.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 07:41:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Back to the Topic\r\n\r\nIn all the Alephs, there are some common elements.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Alephs_5906.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThere
    are empty spaces on both the top and bottom.\r\n\r\nThere are filled-in spaces,
    and there are empty spaces. As was explained earlier, the filled-in spaces are
    three elements: two Yuhd-like forms at the top and bottom of the Aleph, and a
    Vohv-like center element connecting the two.\r\n\r\nBut what do the empty spaces
    signify?\r\n\r\nIn good graphic art, and in artwork in general, empty spaces are
    carefully placed to allow the viewers eyes to rest, and study the details of the
    filled-in areas.\r\n\r\nSo, the empty spaces are for the filled-in spaces.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    the concept applies to the Aleph. How so?\r\n\r\nEmptiness, or a void, comes as
    a result of \"bittul\", or self-negation. Usually, \"bittul\" results from awareness
    that something greater than oneself exists, and \"nullifies\" ones sense of self-importance.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a human being approaches life with the correct \"bittul\", life's experiences
    are different, and ones relationships with family members, friends, and even strangers,
    is improved.\r\n\r\nSo, being filled with emptiness, or \"bittul\", is for the
    filled-in space, or us.\r\n\r\nIt was explained earlier that the Aleph represents
    the union of the Yuhd above, namely G-d, with the Yuhb below, us people. How is
    this achieved? It is achieved through the Vahv, the middle stem connecting that
    which is above, ie. spiritual, with that which is below, that which is physical.\r\n\r\nBut
    nothing can be truly achieved without the carefully placed empty spaces, representing
    \"bittul\". When a person \"nullifies\" himself or herself, then it is possible
    to accept, in this case, that which is above.\r\n\r\nReally, isn't this true in
    life, too?\r\n\r\nWhen a person \"nullifies\" himself or herself, then it is possible
    to accept another person.\r\n\r\nThis is the Divine lesson of the Aleph."
  created: '2010-07-15 09:11:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel's post\r\n\r\n>>> According to http://www.mezuzah.net/scripts.html,
    the talmud tells that the \"ktav ashuri\" (the \"assyrian script\") is to be used
    for mezuzot, tefilin and sifrei torah; the same site shows a sample of \"ktav
    ivri\", \"hebrew script\", which was quite different, and in common usage during
    the period of the first temple. \r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): First, when the Talmud
    describes \"ktav ashuri\", it clearly says it's not the \"assyrian script\", but
    that which \"rich\" (like Ashur or an asher).\r\n\r\nLikewise, \"ktav ivri\" is
    generic. \r\n\r\n>>> Interestingly enough, in this text from the dead sea scrolls,
    http://www.ancient-hebrew.org/31_psalm138.html, the tetragrammon is written with
    a variant of the \"ktav ivri\" (called \"middle hebrew\" by the author of the
    site) whereas the rest of the text is not.\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael (new): Study closely
    your exmamples. \r\n\r\nThe Biblical text from the Dead Sea Scrolls are a variant
    of the classic Hebrew square letter face. It was not what you call \"ktav ivri\".\r\n\r\nIn
    my view, there are only two groupings: the square letter and the \"rich\" letter.
    The script or rounded letter, as in that which is called \"Rashi\" was created
    by Bomberg to fit wordy commentaries beside wider Biblical or Talmudic text. \r\n\r\nThe
    handwriting fonts or those script faces used in invitations are meant to mimick
    hand written documents.\r\n\r\nIn the samples which I saw at Hadassa Hospital
    in Jerusalem, Israel when I was a child about 40 years ago, the Biblical samples
    had nikkud, if my memory serves me well.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>> It is also interesting
    to compare the \"ktav ivri\" of http://www.mezuzah.net/scripts.html to the phoenician
    alphabet, unicode range 10900-1091F, http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U10900.pdf.\r\n\r\nYour
    \"ktav ivri\", like the phoenician alphabet, is very different from the classic
    Hebrew letter, even in the Dead Sea Scrolls sample.\r\n\r\nJust because scholars
    blabbered this, and even got it printed, is not indicative that it's right.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 10:06:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John Savard's post\r\n\r\n>>> ... one just happens to have been one of the
    lucky ones to have been born into the one faith that contains the true message
    from God. ...\r\n\r\nLucky is not the right word. A person determines his or her
    destiny.\r\n\r\nWe are not like fixed angels, or animals, who have no free choice.
    We choose to do what we want to do. We learned this cruel lesson from the Nazis
    in Germany.\r\n\r\nBefore G-d gave the Torah (from the Hebrew meaning \"instruction\"
    [hora'ah \u05D4\u05D5\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4]) through His servant Moses, Moses required
    the Jews to convert. Why? Weren't they Jewish already?\r\n\r\nAs an aside, Moses
    was one of the greatest tzaddikim, outstanding righteous human beings, of all
    times. He saw from the beginning of time until the end of time (Rashi). Hence,
    he saw the entire teachings of Torah, including the Oral Law and all its explanations
    and guidance from the Talmud and works like it.\r\n\r\nSo, he also saw the teaching
    of the Bible to be kind to converts, because the Jews too were converts.\r\n\r\nThe
    Talmud asserts that every convert is a new person, created on the day of their
    halachic conversion. So, they have no spirital parents, only physical parents.
    Their spiritual parents are only our Father who art in heaven. Of course, we must
    treat them well, for they brought us into this world.\r\n\r\nHow can one become
    so knowledgeable in these matters of Torah, 'revealed' and 'hidden', when I am
    beginning so late in life?\r\n\r\nTo answer this, one must look at the life of
    a very simple farmer, a descendant of converts himself, called Akiva. He once
    spotted water dripping slowly upon a rock, forging a growing hole. He reasoned
    that if water could penetrate a hardened rock, little by little, then Torah could
    seep into his brain too.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 11:00:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Beis - the 2nd letter of the Hebrew alphabet\r\n\r\nBeis consists of three
    strokes, like Aleph. One horizontal stroke above, one horizontal stroke below,
    and one vertical bar connecting them, in the middle.\r\n\r\nHere are some examples:
    \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Beis'_6204.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    upper horizontal bar is shortened on both the right and the left. The lower horizontal
    bar is not. This is very noticeable, because the lower horizontal bar protrudes
    on the right in comparison to the upper horizontal bar which does not. The differences
    on the left side is not as pronounced, and often overlooked by unobservant type
    designers.\r\n\r\nTo best understand the significance of this Divine design, a
    short lesson in the order of the supernal spheres, known as the 10 Sephirot follows.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 11:39:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>It was not what you call \"ktav ivri\".</cite> [Israel]\r\n\r\nI did
    not say the text was in ktav ivri. What I said is that these four letters (pointed
    by the arrow)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ivri_5489.jpg]\r\n(picture
    coming  from this other site: http://www.eliyah.com/yhwhdss.html) are in ktav
    ivri.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 11:45:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nThank you for correcting me.\r\n\r\nI suggested that there
    are only two styles: one for holy materials, like a Torah Scroll, and another
    for sacred texts produced on non-holy materials.\r\n\r\nThe name of G-d may not
    be written or pronounced correctly. Hence, some defect its spelling, as I do,
    and others write it on non-holy letters or scribbles, as seen in hon the Dead
    Sea Scrolls.\r\n\r\nRegarding its correct pronounciation, it was reserved for
    use only in the Holy Temple, for it contains powers to do miracles even by non-holy
    people.\r\n\r\nOur sages obm testify in the Talmud that a certain person, believed
    by non-Jews to be holy, listened to how the Holy Name was uttered in the Temple.
    Later, he performed miracles as a result.\r\n\r\nOnce he showed his followers
    that he could fly. His teacher Rabbi Yosse was very upset at his arrogance to
    brag that he was a great miracle worker due to his holiness. So, Rabbi Yosse himself
    flew above him, unbuttoned himself, and urinated upon him. This impurity caused
    his student to fall to the ground, making his potential followers to realize his
    falsehood."
  created: '2010-07-15 12:19:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The 10 Sephirot in Hebrew\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sephiros_5514.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere,
    the top \"Sephira\" or level is shown too. But in the 3 ordered arrangement, it
    usually is not featured."
  created: '2010-07-15 12:31:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The three columns are called: the right column, the left column, and the
    special middle column. It is special because it reaches above to the highest level,
    called Kesser, and to the lowest level, called Malchus.\r\n\r\nIn the Beis, the
    opening is on the left, in the middle row, corresponding to Gevurah.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is Gevurah, and why must it be \"nullified\" in the Beis?\r\n\r\nGevurah is strickness,
    and holding back. This is the opposite of Chesed, on the right side. Chesed is
    kindness, and giving.\r\n\r\nBais is associated with a \"bayis\", a house in Hebrew.
    For a house to exist and endure, there must not be Geruvah, but kindness and flexibility.\r\n\r\nSo,
    we now understand why the Aleph and Beis are designed in these ways. Unlike in
    other languages, the overall design teaches an important lesson in life. This
    is reflective of Hebrew in general, which like Torah combines creativity with
    instructions."
  created: '2010-07-15 12:53:38'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Israel, how do you translate this:\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05DE\u05E8
    \u05D6\u05D5\u05D8\u05E8\u05D0 \u05D5\u05D0\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9\u05DE\u05D0 \u05DE\u05E8
    \u05E2\u05D5\u05E7\u05D1\u05D0 \u05D1\u05EA\u05D7\u05DC\u05D4 \u05E0\u05D9\u05EA\u05E0\u05D4
    \u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC \u05D1\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9 \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3\u05E9
    \u05D7\u05D6\u05E8\u05D4 \u05D5\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA\u05E0\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D4\u05DD
    \u05D1\u05D9\u05DE\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D6\u05E8\u05D0 \u05D1\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05E8\u05DE\u05D9 \u05D1\u05D9\u05E8\u05E8\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05DF \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3\u05E9 \u05D5\u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05D7\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05E8\u05DE\u05D9 \u05DE\u05D0\u05DF \u05D4\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05E8\u05D1 \u05D7\u05E1\u05D3\u05D0 \u05DB\u05D5\u05EA\u05D0\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05D0\u05D9 \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA \u05D0\u05DE\u05E8
    \u05E8\u05D1 \u05D7\u05E1\u05D3\u05D0 \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05DC\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E0\u05D0\u05D4\r\n\r\n[copy-paste
    from http://he.wikisource.org/wiki/\u05E1\u05E0\u05D4\u05D3\u05E8\u05D9\u05DF_\u05DB\u05D0_\u05D1,
    sanhedrin 21, b] "
  created: '2010-07-15 14:15:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, your attempts to deny history to bolster your theories are just ludicrous,
    because the Sages of the Talmud were well aware of this history, and discussed
    it. \r\n\r\nYour claim that \"Ashuri\" doesn't mean \"Assyrian\" but \"rich\"
    is ridiculous. \"Ashuri,\" Assyrian, begins with the letter aleph, and \"ashir\",
    \"wealthy,\" begins with the letter ayin. As you very well know, these are totally
    different roots, and would have been pronounced differently in ancient Hebrew.
    The sages would *never* confuse one with the other, or even make a pun like this,
    because different roots imply totally different etymology. Furthermore I seriously
    doubt that any of your Chasidic sages have ever made such a claim that \"Ashuri\"
    means \"rich\".  \r\n\r\nHere is a Talmudic passage on this issue, as translated
    in the Soncino Talmud from Sanhedrin 21b: \"Mar Zutra or, as some say, Mar 'Ukba
    said: Originally the Torah was given to Israel in Hebrew characters and in the
    sacred [Hebrew] language; later, in the times of Ezra, the Torah was given in
    Ashshurith script and Aramaic language. [Finally] they selected for Israel the
    Ashshurith script and Hebrew language, leaving the Hebrew characters and Aramic
    language for the hedyototh. Who are meant by the \"hedyototh\"? \u2014Rabbi Hisda
    answers: the Cutheans. And what is meant by Hebrew characters? \u2014Rabbi Hisda
    said: the libuna'ah script.\"\r\n\r\nThis has footnotes explaining that \"Ashshurith\"
    means \"Assyrian,\" and that \"libuna'ah\" means \"Rashi: large characters as
    employed in amulets. R. Tam recognizes \"libuna'ah\" as an adjective from the
    name of some locality (Lebanon or Libya?) Another opinion is that libuna'ah is
    derived from 'lebanah', brick; hence writing found on clay tablets.\" \r\n\r\nThe
    'clay tablet' reading I think is correct. Michel's example from the dead sea scrolls
    shows that some at that time regarded the original script of the Torah as more
    sacred and powerful, and thus used it for the Sacred Name in amulets. Rashi, commenting
    on the Talmud around 1100, seems to be aware of this practice as well. We now
    know that in the second century, Jews still knew the ancient script, as the coins
    minted during the Bar Kochba rebellion, which still survive, are written in the
    ancient script. And some modern Israeli coins also use it, in tribute to this.
    \r\n\r\nBy the way \"Cuthean\" here is what we call \"Samaritan\". The Samaritan
    Bible is written in a script derived from the 'ketav ivri', unlike our current
    Hebrew script, which is not Hebrew but Aramaic, and originally created by non-Jews.
    \r\n\r\nAs Daniel Moynihan said \"Everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but
    not his own facts.\" It is just a fact that \"Ashuri\" means Assyrian, as both
    the Soncino translation and my Alcaly Hebrew-English Dictionary confirm. \"Ashir,\"
    \"wealthy\" is spelled differently and has nothing to do with it. And Aramaic
    was around from long before the Temple was built. \r\n\r\nI know it spoils your
    theory about the sacred shapes that the Torah was originally not written in our
    current script but that's the *Rabbinic* view, and scholarly view as well.   \r\n\r\nIf
    you look at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_alphabet|Wikipedia article
    on the Hebrew alphabet]] you will see the clear comparison between paleo Hebrew
    (ketav Ivri), Aramaic, and modern Hebrew, and see that the shapes of our current
    characters are derived from the shapes of a non-Jewish script, and not the script
    in which the Torah was originally written. \r\n\r\nEdit: I see Michel has posted
    the original of the translated passage above\u2014thanks! \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 15:10:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nI think that you found a very good source for our discussion.\r\n\r\nLike
    anything involving understanding Talmud, one must consult the commentary of Rashi,
    and other sages, to properly arrive at the correct comprehension.\r\n\r\nAt first
    glance however a few questions come to mind which I hope are addressed by Rashi:\r\n\r\n\r\nSanhedrin
    21, b\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05DE\u05E8 \u05D6\u05D5\u05D8\u05E8\u05D0\r\n\r\n\u05D5\u05D0\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9\u05DE\u05D0
    \u05DE\u05E8 \u05E2\u05D5\u05E7\u05D1\u05D0\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05EA\u05D7\u05DC\u05D4
    \u05E0\u05D9\u05EA\u05E0\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9 \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3\u05E9\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D7\u05D6\u05E8\u05D4
    \u05D5\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA\u05E0\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D4\u05DD \u05D1\u05D9\u05DE\u05D9
    \u05E2\u05D6\u05E8\u05D0\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05E8\u05DE\u05D9\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05D9\u05E8\u05E8\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05DF \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC\r\n\r\n\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3\u05E9\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D5\u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05D7\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05E8\u05DE\u05D9 \u05DE\u05D0\u05DF \u05D4\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8
    \u05E8\u05D1 \u05D7\u05E1\u05D3\u05D0 \u05DB\u05D5\u05EA\u05D0\u05D9\r\n\r\n\u05DE\u05D0\u05D9
    \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8
    \u05E8\u05D1 \u05D7\u05E1\u05D3\u05D0 \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05DC\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E0\u05D0\u05D4\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
    is:\r\n\r\na) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\r\n\r\nthe script called
    Evri\r\n\r\nb) \u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3\u05E9\r\n\r\nthe
    script called Lashon Hakodesh or the Holy Tongue\r\n\r\nc) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\r\nthe script called Ashurit or \"rich\"\r\n\r\nd)
    \u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05E8\u05DE\u05D9\r\n\r\nthe script called Arami
    or seemingly \"Aramaic\"\r\n\r\ne) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\r\nthe
    script called Ivrit or seemingly \"Hebrew\"\r\n\r\nf) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05DC\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E0\u05D0\u05D4\r\n\r\nthe
    script called Livoneah or seemingly \"?\"\r\n\r\nrelated to the meaning of the
    moon,\r\n\r\nor seemingly \"Greek\"\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat does it mean:\r\n\r\n a) \u05D1\u05D9\u05E8\u05E8\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05DF\r\n\r\nb) \u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05D7\u05D5 \u05DC\u05D4\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5\u05D8\u05D5\u05EA\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the difference between:\r\n\r\na) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\r\n\r\nb)
    \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA\r\n\r\nc) \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05DC\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E0\u05D0\u05D4\r\n\r\n\r\nNow, let me do research.\r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    an aside, how did you find Sanhedrin 21, b?\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 15:17:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI never saw you so worked up about anything, even Caslon.\r\n\r\n>>>
    Your claim that \"Ashuri\" doesn't mean \"Assyrian\" but \"rich\" is ridiculous.
    \r\n\r\nThis drasha is from the Talmud. Did the sages know how to spell Hebrew?
    Did they confuse an Aleph for an Ayin? Or did they know something that you never
    learned?"
  created: '2010-07-15 15:24:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nYour post of William Berkson 15.Jul.2010 7.10am was excellent.\r\n\r\n>>>
    If you look at the Wikipedia article on the Hebrew alphabet you will see the clear
    comparison between paleo Hebrew (ketav Ivri), Aramaic, and modern Hebrew, and
    see that the shapes of our current characters are derived from the shapes of a
    non-Jewish script, and not the script in which the Torah was originally written.\r\n\r\nI
    failed to see how \"the shapes of our current characters are derived from the
    shapes of a non-Jewish script, and not the script in which the Torah was originally
    written\".\r\n\r\nAlso, placing Rashi script at the crucial juncture between the
    ancient and modern is laughable. Rashi script was created by David Bomberg the
    Catholic printer (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Bomberg and http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/72586/Daniel-Bomberg),
    according to a secular book I read in the nineties.\r\n\r\nIs there a different
    source that ages it that far back? John, did you ever hear this before?\r\n\r\nBill,
    you have to do better than this. Perhaps, others want to revise history?"
  created: '2010-07-15 15:42:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\n>>> This has footnotes explaining that \"Ashshurith\" means
    \"Assyrian,\" and that \"libuna'ah\" means \"Rashi: large characters as employed
    in amulets. R. Tam recognizes \"libuna'ah\" as an adjective from the name of some
    locality (Lebanon or Libya?) Another opinion is that libuna'ah is derived from
    'lebanah', brick; hence writing found on clay tablets.\"\r\n\r\nPlease cite sources."
  created: '2010-07-15 15:44:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'You say this drasha (ashurit = ashir) is from the Talmud, but you don''t
    cite any passage. Cite the passage or admit you are wrong, please. '
  created: '2010-07-15 15:54:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nSpare me some time. I read it about 20 years ago. I think I
    recall where. Patience.\r\n\r\nWhat about Rashi? ha ha ha\r\n\r\nDavid Hanuel,
    is Rashi script older than Bomberg, Rashi, or even Moses?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 16:01:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nThat the Wikipedia article on the Hebrew alphabet at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_alphabet
    misspelled the Hebrew words for Hebrew alphabet.\r\n\r\nI think John's neice wrote
    it. The Wikipedia editors can't read Hebrew anyway."
  created: '2010-07-15 16:06:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nFirst, this section is near the bottom of tractate Sanhedrin,
    chapter two Kohen Gadol, page 21b. There are only two Rashi comments, explaining
    the words, 'ktav ivri', and 'livoneah'. Tosefos focuses only upon the phrase,
    \"the script called Livoneah\".\r\n\r\nHence, they feel all questions except these
    are understood.\r\n\r\nLets look at Rabbenu Hananel. The Romm family printers
    put him on the Talmud's pages, coutesy of the Vatican and much bribery.\r\n\r\nRabbenu
    Hananel reviews the text in short, and adds that the \"Kutho'oy\" are those that
    Rav Hisda asks \"Who are the 'hediyotos' (the ordinary or common [unlearned] people)
    ?\r\n\r\nOK, the classic meforshim commentaries in the back, like the Meharsha,
    Chochmas Shlomo, Maharam, Maharam Shif and others.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 16:30:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rashi Script\r\nfrom http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rashi_script\r\n\r\n\"Rashi
    script (Hebrew: \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05E8\u05E9\"\u05D9) is a semi-cursive typeface
    for the Hebrew alphabet, in which Rashi's commentaries are customarily printed
    both in the Talmud and Tanakh (Hebrew Bible). This does not mean that Rashi himself
    used such a script: the typeface is based on a 15th century Sephardic semi-cursive
    hand and was called by the Ashkenazic Rishonim - the Provencial script. What would
    be called \"Rashi script\" was employed by early Hebrew typographers such as Abraham
    Garton, the Soncino family and Daniel Bomberg, a Christian printer in Venice,
    in their editions of commented texts (such as the Mikraot Gedolot and the Talmud,
    in which Rashi's commentaries prominently figure) to distinguish the rabbinic
    commentary from the text proper, for which a square typeface was used.\"\r\n\r\nAccording
    to this, it is from the 15th century, and preexisted Bomberg."
  created: '2010-07-15 16:41:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>As an aside, how did you find Sanhedrin 21, b?</cite> (Israel)\r\n\r\nI
    googled \"\u05D3\u05E2\u05EA \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\"
    and got the site http://tora.us.fm/tnk1/klli/mdrjim/prjnim_ljon_hqodj_1.html from
    which I took the reference."
  created: '2010-07-15 17:02:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: And thanks William for the research.
  created: '2010-07-15 17:06:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nYour post of William Berkson 15.Jul.2010 8.33am was really excellent.\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Yehudah HaNossi was called simply, \"Rebbe\". He was a rabbi, par excellance.
    Many miracles occurred during his lifetime. After his demise, he returned home
    each Friday night, enclothed in a body, to exempt his family in kiddush. To materialize
    into a physical body is extra-ordinary of course.\r\n\r\nFew rabbis throughout
    history were such tzaddikim. Moses, Maimonides, Moshe Feinstein, and the late
    Lubavitcher Rebbe. He was called \"the Rebbe\" too.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 17:16:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nAs William wrote, I'm skipping on my merry
    way, or as they say, dancing at a few weddings...\r\n\r\n1. How does design learn
    from the Divine?\r\n2. Sanhedrin 21b understanding\r\n3. Source for Ashurit as
    Asher or wealthy\r\n\r\nI believe the quote from Sanhedrin 21b explains #3. As
    you see, ktav ivri, ktav ashurit, ktav ivritt, ktav arami, and ktav levoneah,
    indicates that there are many kinds of writing that differ from each other.\r\n\r\nIt
    is clear that ktav ashurit is indeed not at all resembling Assyrian script of
    Assyria - known as Ashur. Compare. Hence, the Talmud suggests that the Torah scroll
    may be written in ornate square letters, as Rich Hebrew Lettering, or an ornate
    form of ancient Greek.\r\n\r\nOne might laugh, but who laughs last?"
  created: '2010-07-15 17:34:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I now have done a CD ROM search for the word \"ashurit\" in in the Talmud,
    which comes up with 16 hits in the Soncino Talmud (includes footnotes, I think).\r\n\r\nNowhere
    that I can see has the ridiculous equivalence of ashurit and ashir. \r\n\r\nThere
    are two passages in the Talmud Bavli where the issue of ancient Hebrew writing
    vs the Assyrian script is discussed: Megilah 8b-9a, and the passage given by Michel
    and me, Sanhedrin 21b, which goes on to 22a\u2014about which more in a moment.\r\n\r\nIn
    the passage in Megilah 8b, that two different scripts are discussed is even more
    clear, but it is rather a rather complex discussion, as they are trying to make
    sense of an older ruling, which it is clear that they don't totally understand\u2014perhaps
    because they lost an understanding of 'ketav ivri' as paleo-Hebrew, which the
    old passage refers to. \r\n\r\nIn the continuation of the Sanhedrin passage to
    22a, there is actually some support for Israel's general view, but not with his
    ridiculous argument that ashurit = ashir. \r\n\r\nHere in 22a, it starts \"Why
    is it called Ashshurith?\u2014Because it came to them from Assyria.\" There's
    a recognition of the real history. However, Rabbi (Yehuda haNasi) has an opinion
    that supports Israel S: \"The Torah was originally given to Israel in this [Ashshurith]
    writing. When they sinned, it was changed to Ro'az. But when they repented, the
    [Assryian characters] were re-introduced ...\"\r\n\r\nIn other words, Rabbi knows
    that at one time a different script was used, but he wants to regard the then
    current one (turn of the third century) as the only sacred one. Thus he says that
    the original was the Assyrian script, that only after sinning was the paleo-Hebrew--here
    referred to as Ro'az--introduced. Then after the first temple had fallen because
    of the Israelite sins, and the Israelites repented, and were allowed to return
    to Zion, they got back the Assyrian script. So Ezra's institution of writing the
    Torah in Assyrian characters was a restoration! \r\n\r\nAnother Rabbi, Shimon
    ben Eliezer, is quoted as saying the writing never changed at all. \r\n\r\nYehuda
    haNasi's theory frankly seems forced to me, but he is certainly a great Rabbinic
    authority, so Israel has license to go his merry way with his theories. \r\n\r\nBut
    please, some better scholarship.   \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n   \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-07-15 18:14:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It is clear that ktav ashurit is indeed not at all resembling Assyrian script
    of Assyria \r\n\r\nThat is flat wrong.  Look at the chart in the Wikipedia article,
    or any other history of the Hebrew alphabet. You will see that current Hebrew
    is clearly derived from Assyrian script, as opposed to the Samaritan Hebrew script,
    which is clearly derived from paleo-Hebrew. \r\n\r\nThe quotes from the Talmud
    directly assert that the ketav ashurit comes from Assyria, as do modern scholars.
    Rabbi doesn't contest that the current script comes from Assyria, he just argues
    that it was the original script of the Torah, and that the paleo Hebrew was later,
    and then replaced. \r\n\r\nBut I give up on trying to clarify this further, as
    to my eyes you keep introducing new muddles.    \r\n\r\nps. Yehudah haNasi's greatness
    IMHO has nothing to do with fanciful miracle stories dreamed up in the middle
    ages, but rather with his great actual accomplishments a thousand years before
    these stories. "
  created: '2010-07-15 18:23:13'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "William & Michel,\r\n\r\nYou both make eloquent and robust arguments. Michel's
    argument and quotation alone (the so-called \u05D3\u05E2\u05EA \u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9), should serve as an indication that the phenomena
    of perceiving square Hebrew as divine in origin, is a comparatively \"modern\"
    phenomena (in the grand scheme of things). \r\n\r\nIt is also worth noting that
    Hebrew grammar and structure rules where only established at a much later time,
    specifically between the 11th to 13th centuries by scholars such as Rabbi David
    Kimchi (\u05E8\u05D3\"\u05E7) and Iben Ezra. These scholars who were based in
    Muslim Spain, based most of their preliminary work in Hebrew grammar and structure,
    on Islamic traditions in the linguistic structural analysis of Arabic. Thus, our
    modern understanding of Hebrew owes to scholarly work done in Arabic, and the
    application of those rules and concepts the Hebrew. So, if Hebrew is so divine,
    how come decoding its structure required Arabic (and Islamic scholars).\r\n\r\nI
    have though some experience, through a short past stint in a yeshiva, of the kind
    of mindset that we are dealing with in Israel's case. You can talk reason, logic,
    and proof until you are blue in the face, and you would have accomplished absolutely
    nothing (that is unless you are a great Mekubal, in which case no logical arguments
    are needed, just directives). You are talking about historical documentation and
    proof to a person who literally believes that the world is 5770 years old, and
    reject the theory of evolution. So, you really think that you can persuade him
    that Hebrew did not come directly from God's FontLab Studio?\r\n\r\nMy young daughter
    though seems to have the best reply for Israel:\r\n\r\n\"Moses supposes his toeses
    are roses\r\nBut Moses supposes erroneously\r\nfor nobody's toeses are posies
    of roses\r\nAs Moses supposes his toeses to be.\""
  created: '2010-07-15 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>Anyone who simple Hebrew grammar and word structure must confess
    that no language resembles Hebrew. Scholars may attempt to group it with another
    set of Canaanite languages, but nowhere is there a language with Hebrew's infrastructure.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    you say, and yet linguists are able to produce comparative grammars of Semitic
    languages and, as Adam pointed out, the systematic analysis of Hebrew grammar
    that began in the Middle Ages relied heavily on Islamic scholarship and methods
    used to describe the grammar of Arabic. On the etymological front, Assyrian, which
    is generally regarded as the oldest identifiably Semitic language, has long been
    used to resolve issues in Hebrew lexicography.\r\n\r\nMyths are interesting things.
    In one cultural context they represent the important stories that a society tells
    to itself to make sense of its experience of the world. In another cultural context,
    one informed by scientific methodology and critical analysis, they represent wishful
    thinking."
  created: '2010-07-15 19:27:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nI think that your daughter \u05E9\u05EA\u05D7\u05D9\u05D5-\u05D4
    may have a great future as a poetess. Her stage name should be Roberta Dylana.\r\n\r\nThe
    Radak (Rabbi David Kimchi) did not establish Hebrew grammar. He derived the rules
    from seforim, holy Jewish books, like the Bible and the Talmud.\r\n\r\nMost everything
    that he wrote is considered accurate. There are different ways to define the same
    results.\r\n\r\nWhere did you go to yeshiva? Mir of Jerusalem?\r\n\r\nThe age
    of the universe is still undetermined according to modern science. It used to
    be in the millions. Then, it reached the billions. Perhaps, in another decade
    or two, it'll be in the trillions. Let's just believe that Wikipedia created a
    big bang long ago and far away.\r\n\r\nDinosaurs? They were cold blooded when
    I was in diapers. Now, they are warm-blooded. Soon, we beam down Barney Rubble
    and learn that they didn't have blood.\r\n\r\nWhat revolve around what? The sun,
    earth, moon, or stars? Again, there are equally mathematically valid yet different
    ways to define the same results.\r\n\r\nDid you see Acher eating a sandwich on
    Yom Kippur while riding a horse? How about Marcus Jastrow?\r\n\r\nI take it that
    you don't kiss the hands of every Mekubal that you meet."
  created: '2010-07-15 19:33:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Israel: ... word structure ... no language resembles Hebrew. Scholars may
    attempt to group it with another set of Canaanite languages, but nowhere is there
    a language with Hebrew's infrastructure.\r\n\r\nJohn: So you say...\r\n\r\nPlease
    cite one language since the creation of the universe besides Hebrew which is completely
    logically structured where:\r\n1. Each word has a 3 letter root\r\n2. the order
    of the 3 letters defines slightly different meanings\r\n3. Grammar and tense are
    determinedntelligentlu by a set of modifier letters, positioned at particular
    places of the word root to define that word, its grammatical state, and tense\r\n4.
    Contains a super-logical system where the numberical values of that word corresponds
    intelligently to other words of similar values\r\n\r\nBetcha can't name one.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-15 19:45:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel, your points 1, 2 and 3 are a perfect description of Arabic. Ironically,
    I've had Arabs describe the uniqueness of their language to me in exactly the
    same terms as you describe the uniqueness of Hebrew. Of course, Arabs and Jews
    who actually talk to each other discover that their languages are full of similarities.\r\n\r\nYour
    point 4 is something I do not consider an aspect of the language: it is an aspect
    of hermeneutic gematria, and like other \u2018hidden language codes\u2019 it relies
    on interpretative associations that are reinforced by belief in the system."
  created: '2010-07-15 20:01:22'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>no language resembles Hebrew</cite> (Israel)\r\n\r\nDid you ever have
    a look at the Mesha Stele; have a look at this page  <a href=\"http://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u05DE\u05E6\u05D1\u05EA_\u05DE\u05D9\u05E9\u05E2\"><strong>\u05DE\u05E6\u05D1\u05EA_\u05DE\u05D9\u05E9\u05E2</strong></a>
    which is very nicely presented. The language is moabite. You get the text in original
    paleo-hebraic script, the same in square hebrew, and then the details. "
  created: '2010-07-15 20:15:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John: Israel, your points 1, 2 and 3 are a perfect description of Arabic.
    etc.\r\n\r\nI am very impressed with this statement.\r\n\r\nIn truth, these three
    points are solely based in great human intelligence, but not in supra-natural
    aspects unique to the Divine.\r\n\r\n#4 however is.\r\n\r\nI disagree that \"hermeneutic
    gematria\" (as you call it) is the subjective realm of the devotee.\r\n\r\nRather,
    one language's success in it more than another's failure depends upon the choice
    of words, or its vocabulary. This is Divine, as we see Adam named the animals;
    Nachmonides comments that this was an act of Divine Inspiration."
  created: '2010-07-15 23:52:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\n>>< Did you ever have a look at the Mesha Stele; have a look
    at this page \u05DE\u05E6\u05D1\u05EA_\u05DE\u05D9\u05E9\u05E2 which is very nicely
    presented. The language is moabite. You get the text in original paleo-hebrew
    script, the same in square hebrew, and then the details. <<<\r\n\r\nWhat script
    was used by the Moabites themselves?"
  created: '2010-07-15 23:54:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Dear Adam,\r\n\r\nG-d uses the new version of Fontographer 5. \r\n\r\nFontographer
    5 now has every feature you need; Volt is for the smart stuff.\r\n\r\nFontLab
    Studio is for those geeks and nerds who want its unique features. We'll keep it
    alive for another decade - its got a customer base.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\n\r\nFriends
    of FontLab"
  created: '2010-07-16 00:02:45'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>What script was used by the Moabites themselves?</cite> (Israel)\r\n\r\nThe
    script is called \"\u05D4\u05D0\u05DC\u05E4\u05D1\u05D9\u05EA \u05D4\u05E4\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D9-\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u200F\"
    (phoenician-hebrew alphabet) by the person that wrote the article, but when we
    click on the corresponding  link we get the page <a href=\"http://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1_\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9_\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9\u05E7\"><strong>\u05D0\u05DC\u05E4\u05D1\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9 \u05E2\u05EA\u05D9\u05E7</strong></a> (old-hebrew alphabet).
    What the script  should be called in English, I am not sure, but it was clearly
    used by Mesha, or the person who did the stella for him. \r\n\r\nWhat is interesting
    in that text is however not the script, it is the language itself, which is assumed
    to be Moabite, yet it looks so close to Hebrew to me. Your question (15.Jul.2010
    11.45am) was not about scripts, it was about language, was it not?"
  created: '2010-07-16 01:29:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "According to Wikipedia:\r\n\r\nThe Moabite language is an extinct Canaanite
    language, spoken in Moab (modern day central-western Jordan) in the early first
    millennium BC. Most of our knowledge about Moabite comes from the Mesha Stele,
    as well as the El-Kerak Stela;. The main features distinguishing Moabite from
    fellow Canaanite languages such as Hebrew are: a plural in -\xEEn rather than
    -\xEEm (e.g. mlkn \"kings\" for Biblical Hebrew m\u0259l\u0101k\xEEm), like Aramaic
    and Arabic; retention of the feminine ending -at which Biblical Hebrew reduces
    to -\u0101h (e.g. qryt \"town\", Biblical Hebrew qiry\u0101h) but retains in the
    construct state nominal form (e.g.qiry\xE1t yisrael \"town of Israel\"); and retention
    of a verb form with infixed -t-, also found in Arabic and Akkadian (w-\u2019lt\u1E25m
    \"I began to fight\", from the root l\u1E25m.)\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Many comparisons
    of Biblical Hebrew with the language of the M\xEA\u0161a\u02D3 inscription appear
    in Wilhelm Gesenius Hebrew grammar, e.g. <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/2#GHGpar-2-d\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/2\">\xA72<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">d</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/5#GHGpar-5-d\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/5\">\xA75<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">d</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/7#GHGpar-7-b\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/7\">\xA77<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">b</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/7#GHGpar-7-f\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/7\">\xA77<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">f</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/49#GHGpar-49-a\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/49\">\xA749<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">a</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/54#GHGpar-54-l\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/54\">\xA754<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">l</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/87#GHGpar-87-e\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/87\">\xA787<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">e</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/88#GHGpar-88-c\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/88\">\xA788<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">c</span></a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Gesenius%27_Hebrew_Grammar/117#GHGpar-117-b\"
    class=\"extiw\" title=\"s:Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar/117\">\xA7117<span style=\"font-family:
    serif; font-style: italic\">b</span></a>, etc.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-07-16 01:55:53'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nArabic and Hebrew are amazingly similar, as any Hebrew or Arabic
    native speaker who tried to learn the other language, could easily attest to.
    It is also worth noting that modern colloquial Hebrew makes use of a large amount
    of actual arab words, many Israeli Hebrew speakers seem to be blissfully unaware
    of the staggering number of words that have been borrowed from Arabic.\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nThe
    short Mosses rhyme is not original, it is a traditional rhyme that was used by
    Gene Kelly at one point too. As for the name of the Yeshiva, it was Aish (before
    they relocated into their new Kotel setting)\u2014ultimately not the most hospitable
    of places to a devout man of science. As for God using a combination of Fontographer
    5 and VOLT, running VOLT would require God to make use of Windows, and that just
    seems plainly wrong!\r\n\r\nBack to the our subject of discussion though, I personally
    feel that this whole argument is rather futile. To me, the proposition that <em>any</em>
    language has a divine origin is simply ridiculous. Language is a <em>very</em>
    imperfect mode of communication; I take a thought and constrict it into a verbal
    structure, like the visitors of Sodom, the thought is either stretched, or truncated
    to fit the medium. We then take those verbalised concepts and ideas and reform
    them into a linguistically acceptable format, which is either vocalised, signed,
    or written. Our audience them takes that message and attempts to reverse engineer
    the process, hoping for a decently acceptable result. I am sure that God could
    do much better, if he were truly inclined to produce a proper mode of communication.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    it is clear to me that this argument, for and against, can go on ad infinitum.
    You have you own dogma, and I guess that one could argue that we have ours too.
    Parallel lines though never meet.\r\n\r\nInsofar as this conversation is intended
    to reach some resolution, it is completely hopeless. Nonetheless, I must admit
    that you have managed to squeeze some informative and enjoyable posts from John,
    Michel, and William, so not all is lost..."
  created: '2010-07-16 02:18:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Michel,\r\n\r\nWith John, I was discussing language and not script. I believe
    that he might have won a Lay's potato chip, if he can eat just one.\r\n\r\nWith
    Bill, however, we rant and wave about Ashurit script, and whether an aleph is
    an ayin. If an ashir has enough money, then his aleph can become an ayin.\r\n\r\nWith
    Adam, we didn't discuss Dylan's grandmother out tap-dancing Gene Kelly.\r\n\r\nWith
    you, anything goes.\r\n\r\nMichael disappeared from the scene after I begged his
    forgiveness. So, John must return the potato chip."
  created: '2010-07-16 04:50:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWhy didn't you go to Ohr Sameach or Bravender's? When were you
    there?\r\n\r\nI was in Kfar Chabad from '82 until '88."
  created: '2010-07-16 04:54:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nMeharsha on San 21b has a lot. He cites the Ritva first and
    foremost. Too bad this stuff is not online."
  created: '2010-07-16 05:02:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Michel: <em>The script is called \"\u05D4\u05D0\u05DC\u05E4\u05D1\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05E4\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D9-\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u200F\" (phoenician-hebrew
    alphabet) by the person that wrote the article, but when we click on the corresponding
    link we get the page \u05D0\u05DC\u05E4\u05D1\u05D9\u05EA \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9
    \u05E2\u05EA\u05D9\u05E7 (old-hebrew alphabet). What the script should be called
    in English, I am not sure...</em>\r\n\r\nSemiticists call it Phoenician or, more
    generally, Canaanite; it derives from Proto-Sinaitic (also referred to as Proto-Canaanite).
    As I wrote earlier, unless you know the language of the text, there is no way
    to distinguish what some people call Old Hebrew or Palaeo-Hebrew from the use
    of the same script by other peoples of ancient Canaan. The palaeographic criteria
    by which one can distinguish one script from another independent of knowledge
    of the language simply isn't there.\r\n\r\nThere's a telling comment in Solomon
    Birnbaum's standard palaeographic work <em>The Hebrew Scripts,</em> in which the
    first few plates show Phoenician, early Aramaic, Moabite and Palaeo-Hebrew inscriptions
    and clay shards. Birnbaum writes, \u2018To apply the term Phoenician to the script
    of the Hebrews is hardly suitable. I have therefore coined the term Palaeo-Hebrew.\u2019\r\n\r\nHe
    means, of course, that it is culturally and politically unsuitable. The plates
    themselves and Birnbaum's comparative chart clearly show that the scripts are
    identical: \u2018Palaeo-Hebrew\u2019 is distinguishable only by the language of
    the text, not by the form of the letters."
  created: '2010-07-16 05:29:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I would expect that in ancient times there were fairly big variations
    in language from place to place, so that it might be hard to say where one 'language'
    began and another ended. Aramaic and Hebrew are closely related, I assume more
    closely related than Hebrew and Arabic (the distances are less). The big difference
    between Paleo-Hebrew script and Aramaic script is, I think, that Aramaic is pen
    written, and Paleo-Hebrew with a stylus in clay. I wonder when the switch took
    place. \r\n\r\nThe theory of Yehudah haNasi that the writing of the Torah changed
    scripts several times sounds suspect, but I'm not willing to dismiss it out of
    hand. Even though he was more than a thousand years after the events, he was a
    lot closer to the time than we are, and was a very level-headed scholar. (I don't
    think there are any contemporaneous miracle stories about him\u2014always a good
    sign in my book.) \r\n\r\nThe Soncino Talmud (done in the 50s maybe into the 60s\u2014van
    Krimpen did the typography!) has a footnote to the passage in Sanhedrin referring
    to several 20th century scholars writing in German who actually agree with Yehuda
    haNasi. I don't know what this is all about, but I'm kind of intrigued. It may
    be that pen and stylus writing existed side by side for some time, using very
    different letter styles each suited to the tool.  "
  created: '2010-07-16 06:14:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>The big difference between Paleo-Hebrew script and Aramaic script
    is, I think, that Aramaic is pen written, and Paleo-Hebrew with a stylus in clay.</em>\r\n\r\nNote
    that I referred to <em>early</em> Aramaic, as shown in the plates at the beginning
    of Birnbaum's study. This script is indistinguishable from Phoenician/Palaeo-Hebrew.
    The square Aramaic script that we spoke about earlier in this discussion, which
    was adopted by the Jews during the exile, is a later development.* All the examples
    of early Canaanite writing in Birnbaum's book are either stone inscriptions or
    clay tablets; later examples of Palaeo-Hebrew in the book include pressed seals.
    Pen and ink written script is much, much later.\r\n\r\n*In effect, it's the opposite
    of the Yehudah haNasi story of script change suggested earlier (an original Assyro-Hebrew
    script being supplanted by what we know as Palaeo-Hebrew but then restored, from
    its preservation in Assyro-Aramaic, after the exile): what the palaeographic evidence
    shows is early Aramaic texts being written in the common Canaanite script alongside
    Phoenician, Moabite and Hebrew texts in the same script, then then square script
    evolving in a later Aramaic context.\r\n\r\nIf there were written Hebrew before
    the use of the Canaanite script, then it would most likely have been the same
    Proto-Sinaitic script that is the direct precursor of the Canaanite script. This
    is the first consonantal Semitic alphabet, in which a select set of signs borrowed
    from Egyptian hieroglyphs were adapted to the phonetics of Semitic languages by
    the acrophonic principle."
  created: '2010-07-16 07:12:38'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Hebrew was invented so Jews could argue amongst themselves more efficiently.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 12:23:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I like the recent theory that all language developed as a social bonding substitute
    for picking nits and fleas off each other when hominid groups grew too large to
    permit this mutual hygiene ritual to be performed among all members of the group.
  created: '2010-07-16 19:44:00'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "Israel,\r\n\u2003I\u2019m an Orthodox Jew myself, but I take issue with some
    of your assertions.  For example, the Tablets\u2014engraved with the Ten Utterances
    (commonly called the Ten Commandments), and given to Moshe at Mt. Sinai\u2014in
    which script were they written?\r\n\u2003The Talmud quotes two opinions. One has
    it that they were written in \u201CK'tav Ashurith\u201D, the square script used
    today for Hebrew, and one says they were written in \u201CK'tav Ivri\u201D.  According
    to the one view, it was the Mem (\u05DD) and Samekh (\u05E1) that required a miracle
    since they have an interior section.  The other view very explicitly says it was
    the Ayin (approximately an \u2018o\u2019 shape, but if I include U+1090F the rest
    of my post gets dropped) that had the miracle.\r\n\u2003You\u2019re entitled to
    follow whichever view you find more persuasive, but remember that there can be
    no <em>p'sak</em> (halachic decision) made on a question of fact!\r\n\u2003Good
    Shabbos,\r\n\u2014Joel Salomon"
  created: '2010-07-16 20:59:19'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n You are producing more heat than light :) save energy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 08:48:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "If you took the time to follow the links given in the recent post http://www.typophile.com/node/72560
    you must have found some very interesting text samples http://culmus.sourceforge.net/ancient/Dsamples.html
    in ancient hebrew scripts. \r\n\r\nIn particular, the text <a href=\"http://culmus.sourceforge.net/ancient/Samples/Hebrew-Paleo-Qumran.pdf\"><strong>\u05D4\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1
    \u05D4\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E7\u05D3\u05D5\u05DD - \u05E1\u05E4\u05E8
    \u05D5\u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D2\u05D9\u05DC\u05D5\u05EA \u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05DE\u05DC\u05D7</strong></a> is written in \"ktav ivri\", yet that text
    from Qumran belongs to the torah. (Unfortunately, the picture of the original
    is completely blurred).\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 18:46:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI read the article, and looked at stupid pictures at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_alphabet.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/evolution
    of hebrew_6125.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHe might claim to be a scholar,\r\n    and he might
    be Scott's friend\r\nBut his spelling of alphabet in Hebrew\r\n    indicates that
    he's only Scott's friend\r\nFor placing Rashi at the \"missing link\"\r\n    in
    the Darwin's Evolutiof of the Hebrew Letters\r\n    old ivri/aramaic, old phonecian,
    and modern Hebrew\r\nThis would make Rashi's dad jump in the lake,\r\n    like
    the rare jewel that brought down his soul\r\n--\"An Ode to Elizer Ben Yehuda\"
    by Bob Dylan's cousin"
  created: '2010-08-03 06:00:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "As every Hebrew research knows, an Askenazic Aleph's upper right 'a' faces
    right.\r\n\r\nDead Sea Scroll's Aleph face left, like those of the Sephardic style.\r\n\r\nYet,
    here they are all Germans. With Rashi, like the monkey, in the middle.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    I thoughr Reformers have brainers...\r\n\r\nHi, David!  :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-03 06:06:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Let's look at the third letter of the Hebrew alphabet (aleph-bet), the Gimmel:\r\n\r\n
    \u05D2\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gimels_6236.jpg]\r\n\r\nGimmel
    stands for Gomel or Gmilat Chassadim, which means 'giving', as in giving alms
    to the poor, known as Gmilat Chassadim, or 'acts of loving kindness'. The greatest
    act of Gmilat Chassadim, or its acronym Gemach, is an interest-free loan.\r\n\r\nThis
    is the mean of the name of Gimmel.\r\n\r\nLet's look at its form.\r\n\r\nA person
    is walking to a poor man. He extends his hand to the 'lowly beggar', or any person
    in need for that matter.\r\n\r\nThis is the lower left portion goes down further
    towards the left. Henri Friedlaender, may mentioning his name be source of additional
    blessing, told me directly that the vertical bar on the right should be leaning
    over, about to fall, even at its base. The reason for this is to teach to go out
    of our way to help others.\r\n\r\nAccording to kabballah, this makes very good
    sense.\r\n\r\nThe lowest part corresponds to Malchut or Kingship, which is poor,
    and has nothing of its own.\r\n\r\nGimmel is the third letter, like the Sephirah
    of Daat, or Tiferet, and gived to Malchut, whic h like them are all in the middle
    column."
  created: '2010-08-03 06:32:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@gohebrew,\r\n\r\n<cite>Similarly, scholars have pondered the origins of
    Hebrew with only the historical proofs of scientific evidence, known as 'secular
    knowledge', but have ignored the knowledge provided to us in Talmudic and Kabbalistic
    information.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Not having a complete picture of both sources
    of information, secular knowledge is not accurate, because by ignoring religious
    knowledge, incorrect inferences are made.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that a reply to
    a statement like this is necessary, and I will attempt to make such a reply in
    a polite and respectful manner.\r\n\r\nI do not fault people whose religious beliefs
    lead them to accept <em>Beresith</em> over Darwin for believing what they believe.
    Since, however, Jewish religious thought has always accepted that the Talmud was
    of human origin, it is unclear to me how it can be given sufficient authority
    to create additional problems of that sort.\r\n\r\nThere are Muslims who believe
    that the Quran is co-eternal with All*h, and, consequently, that the Arabic language
    is also a divine invention, and therefore <em>none of the Arabic words which appear
    in the Quran can be loanwords from any other language</em>.\r\n\r\nWould you expect
    anyone who is not a believing Muslim to take this claim seriously for one moment,
    let alone to regard it as helpful to the study of Arabic etymology?\r\n\r\nTo
    proceed, however, to some questions you've raised:\r\n\r\nIf the Hebrew square
    script is regarded as having been given to Ezra in some miraculous fashion, rather
    than having been derived from an Aramean model, the obvious consequence of this
    will be that it will be treated with greater respect. Also, there would be interest
    in studying historical models of that script, to restore to typefaces aspects
    of this script in its original form.\r\n\r\nThose are benign consequences.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, this would make it even harder for a typeface with significantly
    modified Hebrew letterforms to gain acceptance.\r\n\r\nIn the normal square script,
    it is somewhat difficult to distinguish between:\r\n\r\nBeth, Ghimel, Kaph, and
    Nun;\r\n\r\nDaleth, Vau, final Yod, final Nun, and Resh;\r\n\r\nHe and Heth;\r\n\r\nfinal
    Mem and Samekh (and, to some extent, Teth and Mem).\r\n\r\nOf course, the Latin
    alphabet also has the potential for confusion between the numeral 1, lowercase
    l, and uppercase I, as well as the numeral 0 and uppercase O, and even the numeral
    6 and uppercase G.\r\n\r\nBut if the Hebrew square script letterform is accepted
    as of Divine origin, this will mean that attempts to modify the letterforms to
    make them as distinctive and legible as the lowercase letterforms of the Roman
    alphabet would be unlikely to get traction.\r\n\r\nDespite the success in the
    United States of putting the face Clearview with lowercase letters on street signs,
    of course, it's not clear to me that any radical reform to Hebrew script is likely
    in any case. A gain in legibility, even a pronounced one, is hardly likely to
    trump the loss in familiarity.\r\n\r\nSo it <em>would</em> be unfair to say that
    the idea of a Divine origin for Hebrew script is dangerous because it's likely
    to cost lives. I think the only way an attempt at a high-legibility typeface for
    Hebrew could succeed is if it were based on a historical model with which Israelis
    - they're the ones who use Hebrew on street signs, not the Jewish community in
    the diaspora - are thoroughly familiar."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:11:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> ...the Talmud was of human origin ...\r\n\r\nActually, we do not say that.
    We consider it as sacred as the Tanach.\r\n\r\nThe Tanach are considered by all
    religious people as 'holy writings'. We even go so far as to say that the first
    part, the Torah, the first four books of Moses were dictated to him by G-d, while
    in the fifth book was somewhat similar, G-d 'spoke' through Moses' mouth, and
    so it was transcribed.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud on the other hand was mere inspired by
    G-d, and uses human intellect.\r\n\r\nThat's why many people easily confuse the
    holiness of the Talmud with saying it was of human origin."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:21:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  it is unclear to me how it can be given sufficient authority to create
    additional problems of that sort.\r\n\r\nYou are alluding to something. To what
    do you refer?"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:22:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  There are Muslims who believe that the Quran is co-eternal with All*h,
    and, consequently, that the Arabic language is also a divine invention ...\r\n\r\nFirst,
    most Muslim define Allah as G-d, the Creator of heaven and earth. Maimonides disagrees
    (he lived in Arab lands, and the chief physician to the Sultan of Egypt).\r\n\r\nThere
    are many linguist similarities between Arabic and Hebrew, as John Hudson pointed
    out.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  ...  and therefore none of the Arabic words which appear
    in the Quran can be loanwords from any other language.\r\n\r\nThis is not imperative
    logic."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:28:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Would you expect anyone who is not a believing Muslim to take this claim
    seriously for one moment, let alone to ...\r\n\r\nNo. A believing Muslim believes
    what he or she does.\r\n\r\nHere, we discuss type designs, their origins and significance.\r\n\r\nLet
    us not confuse the evolution of a language with the significance of its graphic
    designs.\r\n\r\nI propose that there is a special quality in Hebrew letter forms
    by pointing out their significance."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:33:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> If the Hebrew square script is regarded as having been given to Ezra in
    some miraculous fashion, rather than having been derived from an Aramean model,
    the obvious consequence of this will be that it will be treated with greater respect.
    Also, there would be interest in studying historical models of that script, to
    restore to typefaces aspects of this script in its original form.\r\n\r\nI don't
    believe I said this.\r\n\r\nI am not speaking about the origins of the Hebrew
    language or its alphabet.\r\n\r\nRather, I propose that there is a special quality
    in Hebrew letter forms by pointing out their significance. Period. You are putting
    words in my mouth, based on other people's arguments."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:37:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>>  But if the Hebrew square script letterform is accepted as of Divine
    origin, this will mean that attempts to modify the letterforms to make them as
    distinctive and legible as the lowercase letterforms of the Roman alphabet would
    be unlikely to get traction.\r\n\r\nNot \"would be unlikely to get traction\".
    That's your assumption. \r\n\r\nIf the newer letter forms remove or reduce some
    Divine characteristics, the Divinity in Hebrew letters are diluted."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:40:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  So it would be unfair to say that the idea of a Divine origin for Hebrew
    script is dangerous because it's likely to cost lives.\r\n\r\nWhat? This ridiculous,
    like the Israeli law of incitement curtails the freedom of speech.\r\n\r\nThat's
    why I'm here and I'm not there.\r\n\r\nLike every American who values American
    ideals, I'm proud to be an American."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:44:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nMy basic point was \"Not having a complete picture of both sources
    of information, secular knowledge is not accurate, because by ignoring religious
    knowledge, incorrect inferences are made.\"\r\n\r\nYou did not write a logical
    argument to disprove it. In my opinion, (Brian,) it can not be done, for it is
    true.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, US law and our value system was derived from conversations
    between our forefathers and the early Jewish arrivals to the colonial world, quoting
    Talmudic teachings."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:49:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was not attempting to disprove the Divine origins of Hebrew, but merely
    to call your attention to the fact that such a hypothesis is of such a nature
    that it does not lend itself to productive discussion.\r\n\r\nEven if I fancied
    that I had a proof that there is no G-d, I would not bring it to this forum, because
    that is not the sort of discussion which is appropriate here. There is USENET
    for people who wish to slug it out in such debates."
  created: '2010-10-22 21:44:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\n>> I was not attempting to disprove the Divine origins of
    Hebrew, but merely to call your attention to the fact that such a hypothesis is
    of such a nature that it does not lend itself to productive discussion.\r\n\r\nI
    didn't think you were.\r\n\r\nI contend a simply point, well ground in logic.\r\n\r\nIf
    I argue anything, and position is based only on only partial facts, then my arquement
    may be false until I consider all the facts."
  created: '2010-10-22 22:16:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\n>> Even if I fancied that I had a proof that there is no
    G-d, I would not bring it to this forum, because that is not the sort of discussion
    which is appropriate here. There is USENET for people who wish to slug it out
    in such debates.\r\n\r\nMy purpose in addressing this theme on Typophile is appropriate.\r\n\r\nI
    am not discussing theology, or \"my god's bigger than god\" stuff.\r\n\r\nRather,
    the meaning associated with graphical shapes of the Hebrew letters reflect a special
    divine source than are not present in letter forms of different languages.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    many people who live their lives with little exposure to religion are intimidated
    by ideas from a religious source, or even outrightly dismiss than as nonsensical
    because of their non-conventional source."
  created: '2010-10-22 22:30:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@gohebrew:\r\n<cite>However, many people who live their lives with little
    exposure to religion are intimidated by ideas from a religious source, or even
    outrightly dismiss than as nonsensical because of their non-conventional source.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    may say that you're \"not discussing theology\", but the sentence quoted contains
    the statement that religion <em>is</em> a valid source of reliable knowledge.\r\n\r\nWhich,
    of course, it isn't, except from the viewpoint of someone who is a faithful believer
    in the particular religion in question.\r\n\r\nThat's why I asked how you would
    feel about the claim some Muslims would make that none of the Arabic words which
    appear in the Quran could possibly be loanwords from another language. I wanted
    you to see how the claim that a religion is a \"source of knowledge\" looks from
    the outside of the religion in question, so that you would not make statements
    which are... epistemologically flawed.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't mean that all ideas
    that come from a religious source are wrong, though. The idea that Negro slavery
    was wrong, after all, largely came from a religious source; the strongest opponents
    of slavery were such because of their religious beliefs.\r\n\r\nHowever, that
    was a moral teaching without explicit supernatural content. Thus, it could be
    accepted as true without accepting the particular faith that was its source. It
    is unclear to me why, say, a Buddhist would find it particularly likely that the
    Hebrew writing system in particular had a Divine origin."
  created: '2010-10-22 23:26:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>Rather, the meaning associated with graphical shapes of the Hebrew
    letters reflect a special divine source than are not present in letter forms of
    different languages.</em>\r\n\r\n\u2018Meanings <em>associated</em> with graphical
    shapes\u2019 are not \u2018present in letter forms\u2019 of any language. What
    is associated with the shapes is external significance (firstly linguistic, but
    by your reckoning also religious or mystical meanings). If the meanings were somehow
    within the shapes themselves, this would not be a matter of association at all.\r\n\r\nAs
    I pointed out very early in this discussion, there are many, many cultures that
    assign divine or mythological origins to their languages and writing systems,
    and I and others have provided examples of these. Still you keep claiming that
    Hebrew is unique in this regard, or framing the particular way in which this is
    regarded in your tradition as unlike these other phenomena, whereas I see it as
    simply a particular expression of the same phenomenon."
  created: '2010-10-23 00:14:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S:\r\n>> @gohebrew:\r\nHowever, many people who live their lives with
    little exposure to religion are intimidated by ideas from a religious source,
    or even outrightly dismiss than as nonsensical because of their non-conventional
    source.\r\n\r\n>> You may say that you're \"not discussing theology\", but the
    sentence quoted contains the statement that religion is a valid source of reliable
    knowledge.\r\n\r\nThis quotation is a support statement about a prejudice or even
    racial attitude by some self-perceived secular scholars.\r\n\r\nI am stating a
    simple logical fact: if you refuse to accept part of the equation from another
    source, then ones equation is likely lacking and false.\r\n\r\nThis central point
    you are skirting."
  created: '2010-10-24 01:42:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> That's why I asked how you would feel about the claim some Muslims would
    make that none of the Arabic words which appear in the Quran could possibly be
    loanwords from another language. I wanted you to see how the claim that a religion
    is a \"source of knowledge\" looks from the outside of the religion in question,
    so that you would not make statements which are... epistemologically flawed.\r\n\r\nDidn't
    I also this already?\r\n\r\nA believing Muslim cab believe whatever he or she
    claims.\r\n\r\nI have not seen any evidence, or even samples, of the Divinty of
    Arabic. If you have some, please present them.\r\n\r\nAs they say, if one talks
    the talk, then walk the walk."
  created: '2010-10-24 01:47:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> This doesn't mean that all ideas that come from a religious source are
    wrong, though. The idea that Negro slavery was wrong, after all, largely came
    from a religious source; the strongest opponents of slavery were such because
    of their religious beliefs.\r\n\r\nLogic can advance that not all secular knowledge
    is flawed and inadequate because it rejects valid statements from religious sources.\r\n\r\nJohn
    S., is this what you are trying to say?\r\n\r\n=========\r\n\r\nSlavery in general,
    wherether it be black, white, red, green or blue etc., is a segment of the debate
    of 'slavery versud imprisonment', discussed in the Talmud.\r\n\r\nIs slavery better,
    or more moral, than imprisonment?\r\n\r\nJudging from statistics of the results
    of imprisonment, ie. repeat crimes, parole jumpings, drug addiction, etc., clearly
    slavery is the winner. This is not a politically correct statement, as our social
    psyche can not yet admit defeat."
  created: '2010-10-24 01:56:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> However, that was a moral teaching without explicit supernatural content.
    Thus, it could be accepted as true without accepting the particular faith that
    was its source. \r\n\r\nJohn S., it seems that you main objection of religious
    truths is that they often embrace ideas that seem to defy logic.\r\n\r\nIf this
    is the case, don't reject the religious truth for that reason, rather inquire
    as to the logic, or supra-logic, that is as of yet unclear.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>> It
    is unclear to me why, say, a Buddhist would find it particularly likely that the
    Hebrew writing system in particular had a Divine origin.\r\n\r\nI shall try to
    answer by quoting a Talmudic statement.\r\n\r\n\"If you see a moral lesson among
    the non-Jews, accept it.\r\n If however they claim a special truth, then you should
    reject it.\"\r\n\r\nA moral truth should be accepted from anyone.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    an eternal truth, or a claim that a certain language has a Divine orgin, this
    can only be accepted or rejected by perceiving a evidence or proofs. A mere claim
    or statement is insufficient."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:07:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: John H., I'll respond to your post soon. As always, I enjoy seeing you express
    your thoughts.
  created: '2010-10-24 02:09:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Can rejecting out of hand a potential source of information ever have any
    but a negative effect on the accuracy of one's conclusions?\r\n\r\nThere are two
    situations, I think, where the impact can be positive.\r\n\r\nIf the source of
    information is of extremely low credibility, and one's available resources are
    limited, investigating the information from that source can waste time and effort.\r\n\r\nIf
    the source of information is likely to be misleading, then one could be misled
    by it to a false conclusion.\r\n\r\nReligion has been for a long period of time
    the chief repository of philosophical and moral thought for many societies. Thus,
    one can expect to find within religious writings useful insights on morality and
    justice, or on questions like the mind-body problem.\r\n\r\nAnd archeological
    discoveries have recently confirmed that much of the <em>Tanakh</em> is historically
    accurate, to an extent incompatible with many of the claims of 19th Century \"Higher
    Criticism\".\r\n\r\nBut when it comes to the origin of the Hebrew script, the
    Arabic tongue, or the human species, the <em>only</em> way any claim to Divine
    origin for any of those things could have validity would be if the supernatural
    claims of the religions in question were <strong>accepted as true</strong>. Which
    means that such claims are, automatically, and <em>quite properly</em>, treated
    as having <strong>zero</strong> relevance outside the faith community in question.\r\n\r\nWould
    you, who are not a Muslim, take seriously for one moment the notion that the Arabic
    language could be of Divine origin <em>because the Quran existed eternally in
    Heaven</em>? Of course not. Then don't expect anyone who is neither a Jew, nor
    a Christian or Muslim (who, of course, also hold, or might be expected to hold,
    that the Jewish faith is of Divine origin) to take seriously for one moment the
    idea that the Hebrew script was given to Ezra in a miraculous manner."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:20:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Validity of assumption:\r\n\r\n>> Can rejecting out of hand a potential source
    of information ever have any but a negative effect on the accuracy of one's conclusions?
    <<\r\n\r\nSeemingly not.\r\n\r\nThe rest of your answer seeks to refute the assumption."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:30:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Again, John S., you skirt about the main point.\r\n\r\nMy paraphrase of your
    arguments:\r\nReligion has presented incredible nonsensical stuff before (even
    though that was Christian, where blind faith is a virtue). So, why should we validate
    it now?\r\n\r\nAnswer:\r\nBefore was not from valid logical Jewish sources.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    if there in deed are claims of Divine origins for the characters and languages
    of other religions or cultures, please present them.\r\n\r\nClaims are only valid
    when backed up."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:38:25'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I know that what is called KTAV HAMALACHIM (the writing of angles) is devine.\r\nare
    the hebrew letters devine??? I dont know, but the fact that there are strict rules
    of the ashurit shape which can make a sefer torah not KOSHER means that it has
    devine roots\r\nmore so, in the talmud they discus and treat the hebrew letters
    as devine.\r\naccording to the kabalistim, the hebrew letters are devine.\r\nwith
    letters G-D created the world, but i dont think it was the frankruel shape.\r\n\r\nI
    think that the ASHURIT letter forms are devine\r\nthere is a machloket is the
    ashurit the original form that the ten commandments were given.\r\naccording to
    one shita the torah was given in ASHURIT, then the second LUCHOT were given in
    Kenaanit, and then came Ezra HaSofer And Revived The Ashurit Script.\r\n\r\nofcourse
    i am talking from a jewish point of view."
  created: '2010-10-24 03:21:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John H.,\r\n\r\n>> \u2018Meanings associated with graphical shapes\u2019
    are not \u2018present in letter forms\u2019 of any language. What is associated
    with the shapes is external significance (firstly linguistic, but by your reckoning
    also religious or mystical meanings). If the meanings were somehow within the
    shapes themselves, this would not be a matter of association at all.\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure what you are saying.\r\n\r\nI think that you mean that one superimposes
    external meanings, but that these meanings are not intrinsic to the letter forms
    themselves. Is this what you mean?\r\n\r\nIf so, we could say the same thing regarding
    all art or literary criticism. This may be a valid objection. \r\n\r\nIn fact,
    there was a movement in art that claimed that if was different, for it was \"art
    for art sake\".\r\n\r\nIf however the parallels between the various meanings and
    between the said corresponding letter form's details are broad in number and also
    consistent, then there appears to truth here.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-24 11:09:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John H.,\r\n\r\n>> As I pointed out very early in this discussion, there
    are many, many cultures that assign divine or mythological origins to their languages
    and writing systems, and I and others have provided examples of these\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    don't recall seeing any examples."
  created: '2010-10-24 11:12:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John H.,\r\n\r\n>>>  Still you keep claiming that Hebrew is unique in this
    regard, or framing the particular way in which this is regarded in your tradition
    as unlike these other phenomena\r\n\r\n\r\nYes, I do, without any condescending
    attitude.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>>   ...whereas I see it as simply a particular expression
    of the same phenomenon.\r\n\r\nPlease explain, with examples."
  created: '2010-10-24 11:15:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nBy Divine, I mean not just man-made both in form, function, and
    meaning.  Rather, Divine refers to a special meaning, significance, and 'holiness'
    holiness here means above nature.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud describe the Hebrew letters
    as having a parallel in Heaven, like a seal. In the seal, the letters appear in
    reverse image and order.\r\n\r\nIn kabbalistic teachings, as you noted in brief,
    the very shapes of the parts and details of the letter forms have meanings.\r\n\r\nIt
    advances that every letter begins the letter, yud. And then, different forms grow
    out it, into the forms we know as the Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nThe kotzo shel yud,
    the point on the upper right corner of the yud, represents an exalted level, known
    as 'inner chochmah', the most profound aspect of highest of the ten sephirot,
    the sphere of 'creative knowledge', ofteb translated as wisdom."
  created: '2010-10-24 11:29:42'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I came across an artical claiming that japanies scientist some how made a
    machine that converts sounds into shapes, they fount that when pronouncing different
    letters the machine produced (translated voice to image) the hebrew alphabet.\r\n\r\nwhat
    is the vlidity of their clame, i don't know. but so was said.\r\n\r\nI have 3
    books talking about the significants of the hebrew letters.\r\nbut as quadibloc
    said, they don't proov any thing to non jews.\r\n\r\nwho ever believes in kabbala,
    will also believe that the hebrew form is devine.\r\nas a jew i believe that the
    hebrew lettering are foundations on which our world is based on.\r\n\r\nbut what
    do we know????\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-24 15:10:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nLet me express the phenomenon in these general terms: there
    is a cross-cultural tendency to attribute the origins of writing to non-naturalistic
    causes. By cross-cultural, I mean that this tendency is observable in multiple
    cultures, so is recognisable as a phenomenon independent of a particular culture,
    even though within individual cultures the tendency may express itself in different
    ways. By non-naturalistic causes, I mean any explanation that involves divine,
    mythological, magical or otherwise supernatural intervention, i.e. that attributes
    the origin of writing to something other than human cultural invention.\r\n\r\nExamples:
    the ancient Egyptians held that writing was a gift of the god Thoth; the ancient
    Sumerians attributed the invention of writing to the god Enlil; the ancient Greeks
    associated the origin of letters with the mythological king Cadmus, who among
    other feats raised an army by sowing dragon's teeth in the earth (i.e. although
    Cadmus may have been a real person, his actions take place in pre-historical,
    mythological time, associated with magic and the direct intervention of the gods);
    the Maya believed writing to be directly invented by their supreme deity, Itzamna,
    although also honoured two scribe gods; the Chinese traditionally attributed the
    invention of writing to a sage, Ts'ang Chieh, a figure like the Greek Cadmus from
    a pre-historical mythological time; the invention of the old Irish Ogham script
    was attributed to the legendary Scythian king, Fenius Farsa, who is supposed to
    have visited the site of the tower of Babel and, from there, coordinated his scholars
    to gather from all the dispersed peoples the best aspects of their languages and
    so produce the perfect language for which he then invented the perfect writing
    system... unless you take the other account of the origin of Ogham, which attributes
    it directly to the Gallic bard god Ogmios.\r\n\r\nThe naturalistic explanation
    for the origin of writing is that it is a product of human cultures. Scholars
    currently believe, based on historical evidence, that writing was probably independently
    invented at four different times and places, and that writing derived from proto-writing,
    i.e. from the making of marks that came to be used first as ad hoc signs for things
    and then to represent language in systematic ways, which is what writing does.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I do believe that people -- all people, everywhere -- are created in the image
    and likeness of God, i.e. that we are made as we are, and we are made by God,
    and we are made to possess, to know and to reflect some of His characteristics,
    in however small a way. One of these characteristics is creativity, the ability
    to invent and to make. I see no reason to assign divine or mythological causes
    to some particular writing system, contrary to historical record (the Hebrew square
    script is Aramaic; the earlier proto-Hebrew script is indistinguishable from old
    Canaanite), when all language and writing expresses this creative capacity of
    humans that reflects the divine creation."
  created: '2010-10-27 17:50:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n> Let me express the phenomenon in these general terms: there
    is a cross-cultural tendency to attribute the origins of writing to non-naturalistic
    causes. By cross-cultural, I mean that this tendency is observable in multiple
    cultures, so is recognisable as a phenomenon independent of a particular culture,
    even though within individual cultures the tendency may express itself in different
    ways. By non-naturalistic causes, I mean any explanation that involves divine,
    mythological, magical or otherwise supernatural intervention, i.e. that attributes
    the origin of writing to something other than human cultural invention.\r\n\r\n\r\nBy
    this definition, it is acceptable or even natural, for a culture to do this. But
    it's also a catch-22 not to then accept or even consider the claim."
  created: '2010-10-28 11:27:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n> Examples: the ancient Egyptians held that writing was a gift
    of the god Thoth; the ancient Sumerians attributed the invention of writing to
    the god Enlil; the ancient Greeks associated the origin of letters with the mythological
    king Cadmus, who among other feats raised an army by sowing dragon's teeth in
    the earth (i.e. although Cadmus may have been a real person, his actions take
    place in pre-historical, mythological time, associated with magic and the direct
    intervention of the gods); the Maya believed writing to be directly invented by
    their supreme deity, Itzamna, although also honoured two scribe gods; the Chinese
    traditionally attributed the invention of writing to a sage, Ts'ang Chieh, a figure
    like the Greek Cadmus from a pre-historical mythological time; the invention of
    the old Irish Ogham script was attributed to the legendary Scythian king, Fenius
    Farsa, who is supposed to have visited the site of the tower of Babel and, from
    there, coordinated his scholars to gather from all the dispersed peoples the best
    aspects of their languages and so produce the perfect language for which he then
    invented the perfect writing system... unless you take the other account of the
    origin of Ogham, which attributes it directly to the Gallic bard god Ogmios.\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    example does not parallel the phenomena I cited for Hebrew."
  created: '2010-10-28 11:29:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n> Now, I do believe that people -- all people, everywhere --
    are created in the image and likeness of God, i.e. that we are made as we are,
    and we are made by God, and we are made to possess, to know and to reflect some
    of His characteristics, in however small a way. One of these characteristics is
    creativity, the ability to invent and to make. I see no reason to assign divine
    or mythological causes to some particular writing system, contrary to historical
    record (the Hebrew square script is Aramaic; the earlier proto-Hebrew script is
    indistinguishable from old Canaanite), when all language and writing expresses
    this creative capacity of humans that reflects the divine creation.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think here lies your confusion, from the very first sentence, which prompted the
    first paragraph.\r\n\r\nWhen I suggest that the origins for Hebrew are divine,
    and directly from the Creator, I am not belittling the origins of the other languages,
    nor those who speak them.\r\n\r\nEverything was created by G-d, and we are all
    certainly his children.\r\n\r\nHowever, just like the human body ranges from a
    head to a toes, and children range from the first-born to the youngest, so too
    there are aspects of the body comparable to the head, and aspects of the body
    comparable to the toes; similarly, there are \"beni bechori yisroel - My son,
    My first-born Israel\", and young children.\r\n\r\nAgain, as they say: \"The proof
    is in the pudding\".\r\n\r\nThere are too many unique qualities fpund in Hebrew
    letter forms which can not be ignored by the intellectually honest person."
  created: '2010-10-28 11:42:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>There are too many unique qualities found in Hebrew letter forms
    which can not be ignored by the intellectually honest person.</em>\r\n\r\nI am
    not ignoring the unique qualities of Hebrew letters -- any more than I ignore
    the unique qualities of other writing systems --, I am denying that they contain
    <em>within themselves</em> any evidence of direct divine invention. I am saying
    that such an assertion is applied to the letters, as part of an external cultural
    and religious hermeneutic, and that similar assertions are applied to other writing
    systems in other cultures and religious traditions. I am saying that I see no
    reason <em>based on the letters themselves</em> to assign to the Hebrew writing
    system a non-naturalistic origin."
  created: '2010-10-29 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@gohebrew:\r\n<cite>There are too many unique qualities found in Hebrew letter
    forms which can not be ignored by the intellectually honest person.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid that I can't even imagine what such qualities might be that they would
    not only suggest a divine origin, but do so strongly enough that persons outside
    the Jewish linguistic, religious, and cultural community would have to admit these
    qualities make such a claim worthy of consideration. I don't think it would be
    intellectually dishonest to demand extremely strong evidence before beginning
    to consider that kind of possibility."
  created: '2010-10-30 23:16:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nDo you how your definition prevents any letter forms from displaying
    a divine origin? \r\n\r\nWell, if a letter form was 3D, and appeared correctly
    on one side, like the Aleph (of the very first word Anochi, I, in the First Commandment),
    yet when you flipped the stone over, that Aleph also appeared correctly.\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    there you would agree that it must have a Divine origin."
  created: '2010-10-31 12:23:32'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: And the 'X'?????
  created: '2010-10-31 12:33:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "X is a letter which according to many designs is reversable, and retains
    its same appearance, as before it was reversed.\r\n\r\nThe letters of the Ten
    Commandments, though, were special.\r\n\r\nThey were carved in stone, appeared
    hollow forms. If you viewed the square tablet (Chazal assert that it was square
    without rounded tops as the Christians portray it), the very same image was seen
    on either side. Even the part of the final mem, which had a solid stone middle,
    was suspended in air as Moses moved.\r\n\r\nBut, very likely, scoffers will reject
    this description, claiming that it was an optical allusion, and the final mem
    used an early form of silly putty.  :)"
  created: '2010-10-31 12:46:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nIf I wasn't Jewish, this claim that Hebrew had a divine origin
    would audacious to begin with.\r\n\r\nAfter all, the source for this contention
    is in the very books of the Jews. Isn't this a partial source?\r\n\r\nBut, if
    I am an intellectually honest person, as a significant portion of the greatest,
    most intelligent, non-Jews have been, I would review and carefully analyze the
    facts.\r\n\r\nI then, if I rejected the assertion, would refute the facts, and
    not merely make non-intellectual statements.\r\n\r\n\"It has a divine origin.\"\r\n\"It
    does not have a divine origin.\"\r\n\"Does too.\"\r\n\"Does not.\"\r\n\"Chocolate\"\r\n\"Vanilla.\""
  created: '2010-10-31 12:57:12'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: can you recreate this effect, with lets say a 3D modualing program????
  created: '2010-10-31 12:59:19'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "But what if I made this with Hebrew glyphs?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Talmud_5303.png]"
  created: '2010-10-31 13:07:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nI see why not.\r\n\r\nWith certain cell phones, by rotating the
    cell phone, the screen rotates. I assume through weights and software, the same
    can be done on one side or another.\r\n\r\nThe kuntz (novelty) here was that it
    occured at all times, and you could see through the hollow spaces.\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, Eli, some things are miraculous. We are Jews, after all."
  created: '2010-10-31 13:13:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Hi Tom,\r\n\r\nWelcome to these blogs.\r\n\r\nI like your typeface, and its
    matching of Hebrew with English.\r\n\r\nMany years ago, I tried this too with
    Broadway and Purim Party, as Broadway had thick vertical strokes. It worked, but
    few Latin typefaces have thick vertical strokes."
  created: '2010-10-31 13:24:03'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: ">After all, Eli, some things are miraculous. We are Jews, after all.\r\n\r\nso
    one would have to first agree on this axiom, to take it as proof,\r\nif one dows
    not believe in this, it would'nt be hard proof.\r\nme and you are jew and believe,
    but if allready believing, we don't need this proof as well, we already belive
    that the hebrew forms are of devine origin..."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:12:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Yes, the Talmud declares that both the Hebrew language and its letter forms
    are unlike their counterparts among the other nations of the world. The Zohar
    and other books of kabballah cite numerous examples. I repeated some here in this
    blog.\r\n\r\nOf course, we preach not to the converted. \r\n\r\nSimply, as one
    type designer to another, I find these citings universally interesting.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    like other matters that I have raised here, such as an advanced OpenType font
    which will automatically add Hebrew grammar markings, like John Hudson's SBL font
    automatically adds a furtive patach where it belongs, I have met much resistance.\r\n\r\nBut,
    overcoming diversity makes one more resilient."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:24:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "furtive patach and furtive ayin its not realy a grammer issue.\r\nif a patah
    is under the last letter like \u05EA\u05E4\u05D5\u05D7, \u05D9\u05D4\u05D5\u05E9\u05E2,
    then its treated like a patah on the letter before the last. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:31:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nI know.\r\n\r\nBut the very same software code in Volt can do
    the same for every Hebrew grammar issue.\r\n\r\nFor this, John can go to sleep
    happy tonight."
  created: '2010-10-31 14:43:41'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I think John clearly stated his opinion that this should be done at the character
    level ant not on the OT level.\r\n\r\nIf so, why did he bother with the furtive
    patah??\r\nthe ansawr is, because just like a holam male and haser witch both
    hav a unicode values the difference is on the positioning placement, so for a
    furtive patah he placed the Patah back under the right lege of the HET.\r\n\r\nBut
    physically changing a glyph to another, he thinks this should be done at the character
    level..\r\n\r\nmaybe I'm wrong, maybe his reasoning was the mount of complexity
    of the shava na\\nach compared to furtive patah witch is very siple look up and
    can never be wrong, its absolute. but i don't think that would be the difference.\r\n\r\nwe
    would have to ask him, himself. :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-31 14:55:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "On most things I agree with John. Here I disagree.\r\n\r\nThis is a matter
    of pure practicality.\r\n\r\nI believe that teachers and students studying Hebrew
    grammar would be best suited if it easy to do.\r\n\r\nHe is speaking on principle
    only. Like no Unicode for a shva-na. Principle.\r\n\r\nHow 'bout a shvah-nah code
    in Unicode like kamatz katan? Why not delete the code for a kamatz katan? How
    'bout those billion Arabic presentation glyphs. Principle, you say?\r\n\r\nI think
    the Unicode Consortium make up their rules before each session."
  created: '2010-10-31 18:03:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think that the Unicode for Burmese, for example, should follow the normal
    practice for Burmese character sets, instead of trying to be a sterling example
    of Unicode purism - when other languages have more easily usable representations
    because they are more glyph-oriented.\r\n\r\nAnd if Arabic can get glyphs for
    its initial, medial, final, and isolated forms in a special region of Unicode,
    clearly other languages from which glyphs are excluded for good reason should
    also get that treatment as well.\r\n\r\nOf course, while Unicode is nice, it's
    not really what people want. What they want is something nice and simple to use
    - something that is, in essence, 16-bit ASCII. And in order to keep all the world's
    languages, with generous use of glyphs, within 16 bits... CJK characters (and
    other large-set characters, such as cuneiform and hieroglyphics) would be made
    from two consecutive 16-bit characters, much as they used to be made from two
    consecutive 8-bit characters."
  created: '2010-10-31 19:37:22'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>And if Arabic can get glyphs for its initial, medial, final, and isolated
    forms in a special region of Unicode, clearly other languages from which glyphs
    are excluded for good reason should also get that treatment as well.</cite>\r\n\r\nArabic
    Presentation Forms in Unicode are for backward comparability with older encodings
    to allow round trip conversion between those encodings and Unicode without loss
    of data (that was the idea back then, at least), and since they violate Unicode
    principle for not encoding presentation forms, their use in text input is discouraged
    and currently are only used internally be legacy, pre-smartfont text renderers.
    As such, no more Arabic presentation forms are allowed into Unicode, see: http://unicode.org/faq/middleeast.html#1.
    It is no different from the various f-ligatures encoded into Unicode for the same
    backward comparability reasons, or even pre-composed accented characters (no new
    pre-composed characters allowed into Unicode if it can be composed from existing
    accents and base glyphs, but it is a slightly different issue)."
  created: '2010-10-31 20:09:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Khaled,\r\n\r\nWelcome to this discussion!\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nFirst, thank
    you for your explanation about Arabic Presentation Forms in Unicode \"to allow
    ... conversion ... without loss of data\".\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, this is a valid
    justification to break Unicode rules, as the whole purpose of Unicode is to prevent
    the \"loss of data\".\r\n\r\nIn Hebrew, there is a widely used glyph for a common
    Hebrew grammatical form, known as the shvah-na ('shvah' refers to a slightly pronounced
    syllable, and 'na' simply means 'traveling' or 'transitional', as opposed to 'nach',
    which means 'resting' or 'stationary').\r\n\r\nMost every Hebrew prayerbook, even
    today, and a frequently studied book of wise teachings ('Chapters of the Fathers')
    features this stand-alone glyph, yet the Unicode Consortium fails to this day
    to assign it a code.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nCan any set of
    letter forms have a divine origin?\r\n\r\nHow can it be logically shown, or proved?\r\n\r\nI
    tried to shown that a series of letters, in different designs, had a group of
    qualities, indicating that this language's set of letter forms were unique. I
    suggested that this was tangible evidence that its origin was divine, or supra-natural.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think?"
  created: '2010-10-31 23:23:25'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>\"to allow ... conversion ... without loss of data\"</cite>\r\nThat
    is a misquote, what I said is <strong>round trip conversion between those encodings</strong>
    and it is meant literally, what is meant by loss of data here is failure to reproduce
    a 100% identical copy of the original text when converted back from Unicode to
    the original encoding as a way to encourage national bodies to endorse Unicode
    knowing that they can fallback to whatever they were using before Unicode, i.e.
    it is a mere political decision and nothing else. In reality, those legacy encodings
    and the software that uses them (I've never seen one) are long dead and nobody
    cares about it any more."
  created: '2010-11-01 11:39:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Khaled,\r\n\r\nIf I understand you correctly, there is no justification anymore
    for the Unicode values of the Arabic Presentation Forms. Am I correct?\r\n\r\nIf
    so, why must the UTC offer them anymore?"
  created: '2010-11-01 11:50:38'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: There is no way a character encoded in Unicode be "retracted" later on, once
    in always in. Unicode can, however, deprecate such a character in the since that
    no one is encouraged to use it, which is already the case here.
  created: '2010-11-01 13:04:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "If I had a typewriter that could type in Arabic, I could use it to make a
    chart of the different forms of Arabic letters.\r\n\r\nActually, that oversimplifies,
    since, for example, the IBM Arabic type elements got by with just two forms, not
    four, of each Arabic letter. Thus, in general, the initial form of a letter was
    provided, and not the medial form, because the connector between letters was always
    attached to the first (rightmost) letter of two letters in text. But I do think
    that if only for that reason, there should be a codepoint for every glyph, although
    not necessarily for every overstrike.\r\n\r\nAlso, I know I've seen complaints
    from users of Burmese that they now have (post-Unicode) encodings that include
    extra presentation forms, because implementing full Unicode support for their
    language is awkward - and, elsewhere, it's been noted that the Unicode rules on
    not including unnecessary characters are generally only strictly observed in the
    case of languages that are less \"economically important\". I don't approve of
    that kind of a two-tier system."
  created: '2010-11-01 14:52:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from:\r\nhttp://www.inner.org/hebleter/alef.htm\r\n\r\nThe Hebrew Letters\r\nAlef:
    The Paradox of God and Man\r\n\r\nThe alef is formed by two yuds, one to the upper
    right and the other to the lower left, joined by a diagonal vav. These represent
    the higher and lower waters and the firmament between them, as taught by the Ari
    z\"l (\"Rabbi Isaac Luria of blessed memory,\" who received and revealed new insights
    into the ancient wisdom of Kabbalah)\r\n\r\nWater is first mentioned in the Torah
    in the account of the first day of Creation: \"And the spirit of God hovered over
    the surface of the water.\" At this time the higher and the lower waters were
    indistinguishable; their state is referred to as \"water in water.\" On the second
    day of Creation God separated the two waters by \"stretching\" the firmament between
    them.\r\n\r\nIn the service of the soul, as taught in Chassidut, the higher water
    is water of joy, the experience of being close to God, while the lower water is
    water of bitterness, the experience of being far from God.\r\n\r\nIn Jewish philosophy,
    the two intrinsic properties of water are \"wet\" and \"cold.\" The higher water
    is \"wet\" with the feeling of oneness with the \"exaltation of God,\" while the
    lower water is \"cold\" with the feeling of separation, the frustration of experiencing
    the inherent \"lowliness of man.\" Divine service, as taught by Chassidut, emphasizes
    that in fact the primary consciousness of both waters is the sense of the Divine,
    each from its own perspective: from the perspective of the higher water, the greater
    the \"exaltation of God,\" the greater the oneness of all in His Absolute Being;
    from the perspective of the lower water, the greater the \"exaltation of God,\"
    the greater the existential gap between the reality of God and that of man, thus
    the inherent \"lowliness of man.\"\r\n\r\nThe Talmud tells of four sages who entered
    the \"Pardes,\" the mystical orchard of spiritual elevation reached only through
    intense meditation and Kabbalistic contemplations. The greatest of the four, Rabbi
    Akiva, said to the others before entering, \"When you come to the place of pure
    marble stone, do not say 'water-water,' for it is said, 'He who speaks lies shall
    not stand before my eyes.'\" The Ari z\"l explains that the place of \"pure marble
    stone\" is where the higher and the lower waters unite. Here one must not call
    out 'water-water,' as if to divide the higher and lower waters. \"The place of
    pure marble stone\" is the place of truth--the Divine power to bear two opposites
    simultaneously; in the words of Rabbi Shalom ben Adret: \"the paradox of paradoxes.\"
    Here \"the exaltation of God\" and His \"closeness\" to man unite with the \"lowliness
    of man\" and his \"distance\" from God.\r\n\r\nThe Torah begins with the letter
    beit: \"Bereishit (In the beginning) God created the heavens and the earth.\"
    The Ten Commandments, the Divine revelation to the Jewish People at Sinai, begin
    with the letter alef: \"Anochi [I] am God your God who has taken you out of the
    land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.\" The Midrash states that \"higher
    reality\" had been set apart from \"lower reality,\" for God had decreed that
    neither higher reality descend nor lower reality ascend. In giving the Torah,
    God annulled His decree, He Himself being the first to descend, as it is written:
    \"And God came down on Mount Sinai\". Lower reality, in turn, ascended: \"And
    Moses approached the cloud....\" The union of \"higher reality,\" the upper yud,
    with the \"lower reality,\" the lower yud, by means of the connecting vav of Torah,
    is the ultimate secret of the letter alef.\r\n\r\nFORM\r\n\r\nA yud above and
    a yud below with a vav separating and uniting them simultaneously. The secret
    of the image in which man was created.\r\n\r\nWorlds:\r\n\r\nThe upper and lower
    waters with the firmament between them.\r\n\r\nIn the world:\r\n\r\nThe upper
    atmosphere, the lower atmosphere, the ocean & water table.\r\n\r\nEnergy waves,
    the atmosphere, the hydrological cycle.\r\n\r\nIn the human body:\r\n\r\nThe respiratory
    system, the diaphragm, the digestive system .\r\n\r\nThe skull-water, the membrane,
    the brain-moisture.\r\n\r\nSouls:\r\n\r\nFeeling both close to God and distant
    from Him with commitment to Torah and mitzvot balancing these emotions.\r\n\r\n\"Crying
    is enwedged in my heart on one side, while joy is enwedged in my heart on the
    other side.\"\r\nDivinity:\r\n\r\nTranscendent and Immanent Light with the contraction
    (tzimtzum) and impression (reshimu) between them.\r\n\r\nMan in perfect unity
    with the Infinite Will of God.\r\n\r\nNAME\r\n\r\nOxen; thousand; teaching; master.\r\n\r\nWorlds:\r\n\r\nOxen--gross
    physical reality, the lower animal soul.\r\n\r\nThousand--multiplicity in Creation,
    the \"thousand mountains grazed by the ox.\"\r\n\r\nThe yoke of the ox yielding
    a thousandfold and returning to unity.\r\n\r\nSouls:\r\n\r\n\"I will teach you
    wisdom\"; the root of the soul is derived from the wisdom of God.\r\n\r\nDirect
    insight of Divine truth; to be nothing.\r\n\r\nDivinity:\r\n\r\n\"Master of the
    universe.\"\r\n\r\nThe Divine \"One\" revealing itself throughout the plurality
    of Creation.\r\n\r\nNUMBER\r\n\r\nOne\r\n\r\nWorlds:\r\n\r\nFirst of all countable
    numbers.\r\n\r\nThe beginning of process in nature and sequence of worldly events.\r\n\r\nOne
    counts \"something from something.\"\r\n\r\nSouls:\r\n\r\n\"One nation in the
    land.\"\r\n\r\nThe organic unity of all Jewish souls.\r\n\r\nOne counts \"something
    from nothing.\"\r\n\r\nDivinity:\r\n\r\n\"God is One\": the absolute unity of
    God.\r\n\r\n\"There is none other besides Him:\" \"One, single, and unique.\"\r\n\r\nOne
    counts \"nothing from something\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-11-07 03:08:23'
date: '2010-07-12 21:51:44'
node_type: forum
title: Origins of Hebrew. Are they Divine?

---
