---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/16/business/global/16rupee.html?src=busln
comments:
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: I like it. Now for the glyphs.
  created: '2010-07-15 16:35:56'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rcs_5258.png]'
  created: '2010-07-15 16:52:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Well, first off I'd like to congratulate Mr. Kumar on the selection of his
    design and its excellent appearance. I'd like to know if anyone knows if the Unicode
    consortium has a temporary unicode we can start using now, or whether the unicode
    is the last step and we all have to wait...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-15 17:13:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''m checking with the MS Unicode folks, will let you know.  '
  created: '2010-07-15 17:24:27'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "As to encoding, M. Everson announced that he is preparing a proposal already.\r\n\r\nNow
    to the glyph. What I have seen so far very much reminds me of the Euro-glyph mess
    we had some years before. Well, the fontist community sorted it out rather quickly
    and trashed the initial \u201Cofficial\u201D version.\r\nWhat is that spell laying
    on introduction of new monetary signs? A government honours a \u201Cdesign\u201D
    which again is of much frankensteinian technocratic inventiveness but next to
    nothing of typographic feeling. A bastard base glyph out of Devanagari RA and
    of Latin R! A clash of typographies \u2013 or a great moment of globalisation?
    \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s quite obvious how the glyph will look like in Arial or Comic
    Sans. But how \u2026 in Times, Bodoni, Garamond? The nature of the two horizontal
    strokes still leaves much to be determined. I\u2019m curious to what life this
    creature will grow."
  created: '2010-07-15 19:03:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas: <em>It\u2019s quite obvious how the glyph will look like in Arial
    or Comic Sans. But how \u2026 in Times, Bodoni, Garamond? The nature of the two
    horizontal strokes still leaves much to be determined.</em>\r\n\r\nI suspect that
    the top bar, which in a Devanagari type should probably correspond to the head
    stroke, in European type styles will conform to the weight of the bar of the euro,
    yen and sterling.\r\n\r\nFrankly, it's not a very happy shape, and yet more evidence
    of what I stated when the euro symbol arrived on the scene: currency symbols should
    not be invented by designers, they should be invented by market grocers writing
    with jiffy markers on cardboard boxes. As a more general rule, people inventing
    new signs for <em>writing</em> systems should write them, not treat them as architectural
    projects. And they should certainly be aware that a shape that works nicely in
    a monoline, sans serif form isn't necessarily going to work well when subjected
    to higher contrast and variable stroke axis.\r\n\r\nAnyhoo... here's a quick run
    at a Brill rupee symbol.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brupee_4690.png]"
  created: '2010-07-15 20:35:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, Unicode doesn't do temporary codes, so this would need to go through
    the whole Unicode and ISO 10646 proposal and balloting processes before it gets
    a standard code assigned. Since the symbol has official backing from the Indian
    government, I wouldn't anticipate any problems in that process, but it will still
    take time.\r\n\r\nMichael Kaplan has suggested, however, that the encoding could
    be handled as a reference glyph change for U+20A8. That seems to me a sensible
    idea, since it would not require any updates to system and application software,
    and only updates to some existing fonts."
  created: '2010-07-15 20:42:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Does Mr. Kumar have an alternate design for drawing heavy fonts that won\u2019t
    result in the upper counter turning into a black blob?"
  created: '2010-07-15 22:17:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The fact that the original drawing could be either a modified Latin letter
    R, or a modified glyph from the Devanagari script, suggests that designers not
    conscious of both contributions to its shape might face pitfalls adding it to
    typefaces.
  created: '2010-07-16 04:50:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Good question, James. In the other two-bar currency symbols, one has the
    option to reduce to one bar in heavy designs and know that the symbol will still
    be recognisable. [In TTF one can also use hints to collapse two bars to a single
    bar at small sizes in low resolutions.] But in the new rupee symbol one of the
    bars also functions as a head stroke, so there's no way to remove the lower bar
    without risking confusion with the Devanagari letter \u0930. I think the solution
    in a heavy design would probably be to drop the lower bar so that it crosses the
    stroke reversal going into the leg.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hvrupee_5244.png]\r\n\r\nI'd
    say this is pushing legibility of the symbol.\r\n\r\nThe committees that decide
    on new currency symbols never seem to have someone like me on board, whose first
    instinct in any situation is to ask \u2018What are the ways in which this could
    all go horribly wrong?\u2019"
  created: '2010-07-16 05:02:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "With the cross bars on currency symbols, my impression is that generally
    they are thinner than any normal horizontal\u2014that being part of their differentiation
    as currency symbols. Thus, not bolding them so much in an otherwise bold weight
    would be an option. "
  created: '2010-07-16 05:24:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Your observation about other two-bar currency symbols is correct, Bill. But
    in this case the top bar isn't crossing a symbol as in the euro or yen, it is
    forming the head stroke. It's more part of the structure than something crosses
    the structure.\r\n\r\nI suppose one could apply the analysis that this is not,
    in fact, a two-bar symbol, but a single cross bar applied to a shape that includes
    a head stroke like \u0930. In that case, a rational argument can be made for allowing
    the bars to have different weights, with the cross bar being lighter than the
    head stroke. But rational arguments do not guarantee pleasant glyphs."
  created: '2010-07-16 06:18:46'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "John Hudson>>>\r\n\r\nIs Brill an upcoming project of yours? Looks lovely\u2014and
    know I\u2019m get off track here, but I would like to know when we can see more
    gems from you/Ross/Tiro? Plantagenet Novus?\u2014what happened to than one?\r\n\r\nMikey
    :-)"
  created: '2010-07-16 08:47:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "I happened to be working on monetary symbols tonite . . .\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/roooopee_6248.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nScrew
    it . . . it's uni20A8 until further notice. It's a nice symbol but it looks like
    it would be hard to draw (write). Better than the crummy euro."
  created: '2010-07-16 11:34:42'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Typodermic: compare all the crossing bars of your regular and bold $, \xA2,
    \xA3, \u20AC and Rupee glyphs. What you show is highly inconsistent.\r\n\r\nI
    think it was not a good idea of them to create a Roman-Indian bastard base glyph.
    This is hurting me. And as the first samples show, it does not work graphically.
    Because it cannot work. The glyphs will end up being of either Roman or Devanagari
    stock. And there will be endless complaints to fontists \u201Cyour Rupee sign
    looks weird\u201D.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 11:40:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">\u2018What are the ways in which this could all go horribly wrong?\u2019\r\n\r\nKerning,
    rendering, scaling, glyph substitution, font portability and font formats have
    all proceeded this way. To remain consistent, \"I don't know what you're talking
    about\" or \"the horse is out of the barn.\"\r\n\r\n>Does Mr. Kumar have an alternate
    design for drawing heavy fonts that won\u2019t result in the upper counter turning
    into a black blob?\r\n\r\nNo. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-16 12:00:58'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: As a pratical matter, who does this come into use? That is, how do office
    workers and designers get this added to fonts they have?  What happened when the
    Euro symbol was adopted?
  created: '2010-07-16 12:05:11'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "A proposal to add the character to the Unicode Standard and ISO/IEC 10646
    was published yesterday. See\r\nhttp://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3862.pdf"
  created: '2010-07-16 12:06:52'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Here\u2019s my \uFB01rst humble take:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ruhpi_5192.jpg]\r\n.\r\nI
    lean towards understanding this as a *Devanagari character* and nothing else.
    Though the writing direction is the same as with Latin, the typical weight distribution
    is contrary. This can\u2019t be ignored. Therefor the terminations of the crossbar
    look the other way."
  created: '2010-07-16 12:37:27'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Good point. Fixed.
  created: '2010-07-16 12:51:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I lean towards understanding this as a *Devanagari character* and nothing
    else. \r\n\r\nConsidering that it is the monetary symbol of India, neither your
    statement (a *Devanagari character* and nothing else?), nor your drawing, make
    sense. But maybe that is what 'first takes' are for?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-16 12:53:39'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Michael,\r\nI have two concerns about your document.\r\n\r\n1) An ISO proposal
    document should not appear as a memorial to a single person who has invented a
    miserable glyph for a character he not invented.\r\n\r\n2) quoting from http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3862.pdf,\r\np.
    1:\r\n<cite>The shape of the currency sign has been specified as \u201Can amalgam\u201D
    of the DEVANAGARI LETTER RA, and the LATIN CAPITAL LETTER RA and it is likely
    that many fonts will take the Latin capital letter as the starting point for design,
    to harmonize with European digits and other currency signs.</cite>\r\n\r\nDrop
    the whole bit. It only pretends to make assumptions manifest which are utmost
    questionable. This is not any good.\r\n(Personally, I doubt that a Roman base
    glyph per se fits better to digit glyphs which originate from India; see my previous
    post  ;-)  cheers"
  created: '2010-07-16 13:14:38'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n<cite>*Devanagari character*</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2013 you\u2019re
    right, I should have written \u201CDevanagari (based) GLYPH\u201D. Ought to make
    sense that way.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 nor your drawing, make sense</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does your drawing look like?"
  created: '2010-07-16 13:34:00'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Drop the whole bit.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf the description is part of, or
    at least conforms to, Mr Kumar's design, then of course it should be included
    in the \"specification\". It gives designers a valuable clue as to what this sign
    is and what it ought look like. It helps avoid deviation. After all, this is what
    has been submitted and selected."
  created: '2010-07-16 13:57:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Andreas St\xF6tzner @ 16.Jul.2010 4.37am: <cite>Therefore the terminations
    of the crossbar look the other way.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich isn't the way it looks
    in Kumar's design."
  created: '2010-07-16 14:54:47'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Am I correct in gathering from [[http://www.omniglot.com/writing/devanagari.htm|this
    page]] that devanagari numerals do not use a head stroke? '
  created: '2010-07-16 15:06:54'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Which isn't the way it looks in Kumar's design.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course
    not.\r\n\r\nAs has been said before many times, the way and mode these \u201Cdesigns\u201D
    (Euro, Rupee) are presented is misleading. It is plainly wrong to represent it
    as a technical drawing, cf. the Euro introduction. \r\nThe visual essence of such
    a sign (not \u2018symbol\u2019 btw) is its graph, the skeleton. The *rendering*
    of the sign\u2019s skeleton is something else. Something very important, naturally.
    \ That is what has been ignored again. \r\n\r\nAs John Hudson repetedly remarked,
    a monetary sign should get \u201Cinvented\u201D rather by people who actually
    write it. Instead we witnes again a competion which is ruled by bloody laymenship
    sailing under the label \u201Cdesign\u201D.\r\n\r\nWhy is WRITING not recognized
    being a design discipline?\r\n\r\nI have read statements which favour the new
    sign being based on a Latin shape rather than on a Devanagari one. Considering
    the countries multiscriptive reality that has a point in terms of attempting neutrality.
    But if so: is the attachment of a Devanagari-headbar onto a Latin R-glyph such
    a good idea? The winning \u201Cdesigner\u201D seems not to have bothered himself
    with such thoughts. Instead he was inspired by the Indian flag (!) and created
    an Roman-Indian bastard. If that is design, then throwing mud and mustard into
    one bucket is cooking.  ;-)\r\n\r\nHowever, we\u2019ll sort it out. No choice."
  created: '2010-07-16 15:28:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here's an amateur go at a didone version.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rupeetry_3496.png]\r\nThe
    horizontal thicks of Arabic numerals (e.g. /2/, /7/) complicate the question of
    thickness of the rupee horizontals even further."
  created: '2010-07-16 15:55:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">The fact that the original drawing could be either a modified Latin letter
    R, or a modified glyph from the Devanagari script, suggests that designers not
    conscious of both contributions to its shape might face pitfalls adding it to
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nI disagree. In a European-language font you make it R like,
    in a Devanagari font you make resemble the base characters of that particular
    design. Of more concern, as Andreas notes, is what this should look like in fonts
    supporting the other dozen or so Indian scripts in common use.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 15:59:19'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>compare all the crossing bars of your regular and bold $, \xA2, \xA3,
    \u20AC and Rupee glyphs. What you show is highly inconsistent.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    good. I'm glad you noticed. Yeah, of course the crossbars are inconsistent. I
    never even considered having evenly weighted crossbars as being something that
    would be desirable. Why would I want that? Why would that be something anyone
    would want to attain unless I were entering some kind of even crossbar font contest.
    The crossbars don't need to relate to one another in currency symbols. They can,
    and it certainly looks fine in light weights. But what's the advantage? They aren't
    usually seen together. Numerals are their natural companions. A yen and Euro can
    have thinner crossbars, a cent and sterling can have thicker. Does it look good
    with numerals. Then the crossbars are the correct thickness. In my example, my
    dollar sign cross strokes happen to be short. Of course I don't want to match
    them to the Euro. They need to be fattened up, they need presence. The thickness
    is determined by the density and relation to numerals and my particular mood.
    Looking good with numerals trumps all. That's the most important thing. Although
    Ke$ha complicates things. Why, Ke$ha?\r\n\r\nIt's hard to guess how grocers will
    write the rupee. From my marker scrawlings, it seems more practical to increase
    the size of the top bowl and diminish the tail. I tried drawing about 100 of these
    but I am not an Indian grocer.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/100_6001.png]\r\n\r\nAll
    that I've discovered it that the new rupee symbol is really god damn hard to draw
    and that I'm very glad I'm not an Indian grocer. Maybe it'll relate to the R because
    of the Rs. Anyway. Grocers, please get to work and figure this out for us.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 17:08:20'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "\u2026 and the more concern with fonts which support Latin AND Indian scripts.\r\n\r\nEliason:
    not bad! I too feel that the two hor. strokes might have different thickness in
    contrastive faces."
  created: '2010-07-16 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There are, practically, going to be three different models for this symbol,
    based on usage.\r\n\r\nThe official version, as designed by Mr Kumar, will presumably
    appear on bank notes and coins.\r\n\r\nA vernacular written version will presumably
    develop in India, and I suspect it will be a \u0930, written with one of the two
    typical ducti that writers of Devanagari employ, with a crossbar through it. Understanding
    these ducti will be useful for makers of handwriting fonts (Ray, I think your
    construction is atypical: either the head stroke is written first as a separate
    stroke, or the body is written first and then the head stroke added above; in
    a lot of informal Devanagari handwriting, the head stroke ends up being above
    the body of the letter, rather than attached to it). This form will be used mainly
    in conjunction with Indic style numerals. It is worth noting that different Indian
    scripts have their own numeral symbols, and that there may be localised vernacular
    forms of this currency symbol that derive from the way the individual scripts
    are written, or something more Latin R-like may be preferred on the basis of national
    script neutrality. [There are at least some people in India who favour a distinct
    rupee symbol for each script, which could still happen alongside the official
    federal version.]\r\n\r\nA Latinised form will harmonise with European fonts and
    will be used primarily in the context of European numerals. In language tagged
    text, an OTL 'locl' variant could be used to switch between a European styled
    and Indian styled rupee symbol."
  created: '2010-07-16 18:14:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Forrest: <em>As a practical matter, how does this come into use? That is,
    how do office workers and designers get this added to fonts they have? What happened
    when the Euro symbol was adopted?</em>\r\n\r\nThe euro symbol was a different
    beast in terms of software support, font updates, etc.. It was something that
    was added to existing 8-bit Latin codepages, and hence to all fonts that claimed
    support for those codepages, and of course to any font that one realistically
    wanted to license in a European market. It was a huge, huge undertaking.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, only Apple among the major OS makers have 8-bit codepages for Indic
    scripts, with few fonts targeting those codepages. Microsoft's support for Indic
    scripts has always been Unicode-centric, and I didn't notice any IBM or other
    codepages for Indic scripts. So there will be a lot less pressure to update the
    majority of fonts, which do not support Indic scripts. The rupee symbol will probably
    be like the majority of currency symbols in Unicode that are only found in fonts
    that support particular languages/scripts, or in fonts that aim to support complete
    Unicode blocks."
  created: '2010-07-16 18:25:30'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Typodermic: <cite> The crossbars don't need to relate to one another \u2026
    They aren't usually seen together.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe are. Just one sample, from
    http://www.ft.com/home/uk :\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fintimes_monet_6585.jpg]\r\n.\r\nJohn:
    <cite>A Latinised form will harmonise with European fonts and will be used primarily
    in the context of European numerals.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, probably. But I argue
    the Indians want their new sign of economic pride getting viable on a more general
    scope, in the end *one* glyph in a given font should perform satisfactorily with
    either Latin or Indic script environment. The sophistication of handling several
    localized glyphs via OT features won\u2019t work for the Essex man. \r\n\r\nThis
    is quite a graphic challenge. The Indian officials decided to leave the solution
    up to us. Maybe not the worst case."
  created: '2010-07-16 19:36:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This certainly isn\u2019t in the same league as the euro, this isn\u2019t
    a new currency, and thankfully we\u2019ve moved beyond the 8bit code-pages. I
    don\u2019t think the existing Rupee symbol is even on standard Indian keyboard
    layouts (could be wrong). Checking some shopping sites they seem to use \u201CRs\u201D
    rather than the current Unicode codepoint. I don\u2019t see that changing until
    fonts including the new symbol are ubiquitous. Beyond shopping sites the business
    and banking world will continue to use three letter currency codes, esp for second
    tier currencies."
  created: '2010-07-16 19:44:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Also, I wonder if the designer of this symbol is related to Dr. Anshul Kumar,
    who teaches at IIT, and who has a lecture series available online:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4TzMyXmzL8M"
  created: '2010-07-16 20:40:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Monetary symbols born of any era have problems in typographic transition.
    \ The U.S. Dollar is no prize either in a heavy weight, particularly the double
    bar variety. The new Rupee is no worse than the rest.  The slash lines are what
    mark all of them as monetary.  The problem the Euro had was that it was too exact
    when first released.  Now what has happened to it will happen to the Rupee as
    well. Five hundred type designers will putz with it to make it fit their own typefaces
    and a general feeling of what reads as the symbol will evolve and make itself
    known with time. At least this new Rupee does not have a construction diagram
    to go with it.  I take it as a fun exercise and am happy it is not more styled
    or designed as to be impossible to adapt.\r\n\r\nThere will be rumbles of discontent
    until the real code point is fixed. Then we will just all go to work and draw
    it like we always have."
  created: '2010-07-16 20:42:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: A glyph change to U+20A8 is out of the question, it turns out. That codepoint
    has a compatibility decomposition to R+s and, for reasons of Unicode stability
    agreements with other standards, that decomposition cannot be changed. This disqualifies
    U+20A8 from use for the new rupee symbol.
  created: '2010-07-16 20:58:34'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Andreas,\r\n\r\nMy document gives the designer because this is the result
    of a contest. That's part of the history of the character. I did the same thing
    in http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n3392.pdf the proposal to encode the
    Kazakh TENGE SIGN.\r\n\r\nAs to your second point, well, you're just wrong. Firstly,
    using Devanagari RA as obviously as you did in your font would be inappropriate
    for a Latin-based font, and moreover a lot of Indians use other scripts and feel
    that Hindification via Devanagari is not a good thing.\r\n\r\nSecondly, the thing
    WAS IN FACT devised as an amalgam of Devanagari RA and the right half of Latin
    R. And so far the most successful designs for the character I have seen have taken
    R as the starting point. Just as the most successful EURO SIGNs take C as their
    starting point."
  created: '2010-07-16 20:58:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The winning \u201Cdesigner\u201D seems not to have bothered himself with
    such thoughts. \r\n\r\nPlease. This skeleton is a marvel. Look at all the possible
    approaches!\r\n\r\n>What does your drawing look like?\r\n\r\nI have not been hired
    to draw one yet. But the bars will match the other monetary signs, and so will
    the overall complexity of the shape. \r\n\r\n>A glyph change to U+20A8 is out
    of the question...\r\n\r\nLet me know. \r\n\r\nI'm not sure we'll have to add
    it to all of our fonts, but we'll do <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Ravie/characters/\">Ravie</a>
    first and check with you all to see what you think. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-16 21:21:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's a possible monkey wrench thrown into the works, or spanner in the
    works as the British say:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.saveindianrupeesymbol.org/\r\n\r\n(From
    Theo Rosendorf on Facebook.)"
  created: '2010-07-16 22:18:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@ Craig : <em>Am I correct in gathering . . . that devanagari numerals do
    not use a head stroke?</em>\r\n\r\nThat is correct.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 22:36:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "My draft:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newrupee_4252.png]"
  created: '2010-07-17 00:05:09'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Here's a possible monkey wrench thrown into the works ...</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does this mean:\r\n\r\n<cite>Second violation of guideline is the symbol itself,
    as it's not applicable to standard keyboard or Unicode enable.</cite>\r\n\r\n?!"
  created: '2010-07-17 00:32:49'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>The crossbars don't need to relate to one another \u2026 They aren't
    usually seen together.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>The are. Just one sample, from http://www.ft.com/home/uk
    :</em>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't matter. They're not together. Even if they were on the
    same line, the strokes wouldn't need to match. In heavy weights, the top of a
    T and bottom on an L don't need to match. The crossbar of an A and a crossbar
    of H don't need to match. The strokes of a seven and four don't need to match.
    When you're adjusting weight and trying to harmonize with other glyphs, there
    are many options, one of which is changing the weight of strokes. A euro is dense.
    A sterling is less dense. By restricting crossbar thickness variation, you have
    one less tool in your toolbox for dealing with the problems that arise in heavier
    weights. On course, if you're making book and light, you have the option of unifying
    strokes with little consequence.\r\n\r\nThe mistake I made with my rupee was not
    using a similar strategy to what I used for the sterling and using a thinner middle
    crossbar. I think it might be sensible to look towards numerals for the rupees
    construction and ignoring the R altogether. The sample shown in the <a href=\"http://www.nytimes.com/2010/07/16/business/global/16rupee.html?_r=1&src=busln\">Times
    article</a> shows a straight horizontal stroke, which you could relate to the
    treatment of the stroke on of your seven. Maybe not a copy of the 7 stroke but
    somehow related, rather than using the R stroke as a cue. Maybe the top bar could
    relate to the 7, 5 or, if available, a flat topped 3. The middle could relate
    to the middle of a 3. You can start with an R if you like but eventually, your
    rupee will have to get along with numerals. When I make a euro, I use the zero
    as a starting point because it's not going to be hanging out with letters very
    often.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-17 02:25:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bill, thanks for that great link. I loved the television clip.
  created: '2010-07-17 03:10:42'
- author:
    name: SaveIndianrupeesymbol
    picture: 120364
  body: "@ Christopher Slye  - Down below are the guideline issued by Finance Ministry
    in regards to Indian Rupee symbol design competition. \r\n\r\nAccording to guidelines
    : http://www.saveindianrupeesymbol.org/2010/06/indian-rupee-symbol-guidelines.html\r\n\r\n<strong>.
    A participant can send a maximum of two entries.\r\n. The symbol has to be in
    the Indian National Language Script or a visual representation.\r\n. The symbol
    should be applicable to standard keyboard.</strong>\r\n\r\nBut RTI (Right To Information)had
    already exposed that he is Non-eligible candidate for Indian Rupee Symbol Design
    Competition as he had violated the Indian Rupee Symbol Design competition guidelines
    .\r\n\r\nAccording to guidelines one candidate could send maximum two design entries
    but <strong>he had submitted a total of four designs.</strong>\r\n\r\nSecond violation
    of guideline is the symbol itself, as <strong>it's not applicable to standard
    keyboard or Unicode enable.</strong>(Controversial guideline)\r\n\r\nViolations
    are not stopping here according to information and broadcasting minister Ambika
    Soni \"The new rupee symbol partially resembles the Devanagri \u2018Ra\u2019 and
    Roman capital \u2018R\u2019 without the stem coupled with two parallel lines \u2013
    in line with Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee\u2019s vision for a symbol which
    reflects and captures Indian ethos and culture.\"\r\n\r\nBut using roman script/English
    alphabet in designing the New Indian rupee symbol is also a violation of guideline
    according to the guideline <strong>\"The symbol had to be in the Indian National
    Language Script\".</strong>\r\n\r\nBut according to National language Script English
    is not included in that list till this date.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nMore over RTI Activist
    exposed : Mismanagement and violation of guidelines in \u201CIndian Rupee Symbol\u201D
    design competition.\r\n\r\nAccording to RTI Documents : http://www.saveindianrupeesymbol.org/2010/06/down-below-are-rtis-filled-by-rti.html\r\n\r\n
    <strong>  1. Non-eligible candidate was shortlisted in top five finalists. As
    candidate had submitted four designs.\r\n   2. One finalist was in contact with
    Finance Ministry and RBI prior to competition.\r\n   3. Design concept or brief
    was not put in front of jury along with Indian Rupee symbol design.\r\n   4. No
    marks or grades were allotted to selected (2644) candidates design entries, in
    the process of shortlisting top five finalist design entries.\r\n   5. Jury had
    spends less than 20 seconds on each design entries to analyze it .\r\n   6. Three
    jury member were absent in two days long meeting dated 29th Sept. and 30th Sept.
    2009.\r\n   7. One jury member from Ministry of Culture was absent on the day
    of final presentation.\r\n   8. All seven jury member had never meet in this whole
    selection process in any given time.\r\n   9. No records are available with Finance
    Ministry which could indicated, how many total design entries Finance Ministry
    had received ?</strong>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-17 10:13:39'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Typodermic: <cite>It doesn't matter. They're not together. Even if they were
    on the same line, the strokes wouldn't need to match. In heavy weights, the top
    of a T and bottom on an L don't need to match. The crossbar of an A and a crossbar
    of H don't need to match. The strokes of a seven and four don't need to match.
    When you're adjusting weight and trying to harmonize with other glyphs, there
    are many options, one of which is changing the weight of strokes. A euro is dense.
    A sterling is less dense. By restricting crossbar thickness variation, you have
    one less tool in your toolbox for dealing with the problems that arise in heavier
    weights. On course, if you're making book and light, you have the option of unifying
    strokes with little consequence.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks for enlightening me."
  created: '2010-07-17 12:03:48'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: No problem. I'm going to wait until there's a proper Unicode location and
    a final design before I make more of these but it's fun to explore.
  created: '2010-07-17 14:38:24'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "As Unicode definition for new Rupee sign will take some time, what to do
    with fonts under development? To include the new sign as a non-coded glyph, to
    replace traditional Rupee sign or to ignore it until there is an Unicode defined?\r\n\r\nI
    have the same questions about Kazakh Tenge sign, except that Tenge does not replaces
    any glyph.\r\n\r\nAs a first approach, I thought to include new Rupee as an alternate
    to traditional Rupee sign. And to simply add Tenge as a non-coded glyph."
  created: '2010-07-17 14:49:12'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026ignore it until there is an Unicode defined?</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    about ignoring it on the grounds that I shouldn\u2019t deign to design a character
    that was ginned up with a design contest that resulted in thousands of designers
    not getting paid for their work?"
  created: '2010-07-17 17:05:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Freiberger, my approach for characters awaiting Unicode finalisation -- presuming
    I am designing a font for which they are relevant, e.g. a font for Indic scripts
    in this case -- is to design the glyphs, put them in the fonts, but leave them
    unencoded. Then, when the Unicode and ISO encodings are finalised it is a quick
    cmap fix to update the fonts.
  created: '2010-07-17 17:58:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A comment on a couple of the contest guidelines:\r\n\r\n<em>Second violation
    of guideline is the symbol itself, as it's not applicable to standard keyboard
    or Unicode enable.</em>\r\n\r\nThe guidelines don't mention Unicode. They say
    only: \u2018The symbol should be applicable to standard keyboard.\u2019 \r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure what either this supposed violation means or what the original guideline
    means. Any new symbol is going to require both an update to standard keyboard
    layouts and drivers, and obviously an update to Unicode or other encoding standards.
    There is no backwards compatible implementation for a new symbol that has not
    previously been encoded and is not present in existing keyboard layouts. Hence,
    any new symbol -- regardless of form -- is equally applicable to an updated standard
    keyboard and enabled in a future version of Unicode.\r\n\r\n<em>But using roman
    script/English alphabet in designing the New Indian rupee symbol is also a violation
    of guideline according to the guideline \"The symbol had to be in the Indian National
    Language Script\".</em>\r\n\r\nThe contest guidelines say:\r\n\r\n\u20185. The
    symbol has to be in the Indian National Language Script <em>or a visual representation.</em>\u2019
    [my emphasis]\r\n\r\nMr Kumar\u2019s design, regardless of whatever issues one
    might have with it or with the contest judging process, seems to me to meet this
    quite broad guideline for a \u2018visual representation\u2019. The Devanagari
    \u0930 is clearly represented, and as applied to different type styles might be
    more or less obvious.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-17 18:17:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> is to design the glyphs, put them in the fonts, but leave them unencoded.\r\n\r\nThat's
    what we're doing, and hope the mappings are stable prior to shipping any products
    including the fonts. It would be a disaster to guess or gamble on a code-point
    and then deal with the support issues later.  "
  created: '2010-07-17 23:01:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>It would be a disaster to guess or gamble on a code-point and then
    deal with the support issues later.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. I've only encountered
    one situation in which there was a late change in the proposed codepoint assignment
    to a new character in Unicode, just before the new version of the standard was
    published, but it was enough to make me very wary of using any codepoint until
    it has been formally published. Our policy is not to assign glyphs to any codepoint
    until it is included in a published update to Unicode, even if that means waiting
    months for something that we're 99.99...% sure will be codepoint <em>x.</em>"
  created: '2010-07-18 00:10:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I agree that Mr. Kumar as done an excellent job. I'm pretty sure he spent
    more than the $3,500 he won. So I thank him for his financial sacrifice as well.
    \r\n\r\n>It would be a disaster to guess or gamble on a code-point and then deal
    with the support issues later.\r\n\r\nY'all have taught us'all that disasters
    like this are no gamble at all. A sure bet comes to mind. India has waited more
    than 8,000 years for this sign, and as I said, we can wait for a proper unicode.
    \r\n\r\n>Our policy is not to assign glyphs to any codepoint until it is included
    in a published update to Unicode,\r\n\r\nJust leave out the cool Latin glyphs
    like petite caps then? \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-18 12:25:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Just leave out the cool Latin glyphs like petite caps then?</em>\r\n\r\n?
    Petite caps and other typographic forms are <em>unencoded</em> glyph variants,
    accessed via layout features from underlying standard characters."
  created: '2010-07-18 17:40:20'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: Does this mean we should redesign the dollar mark so its crosses are horizontal?
    ;)
  created: '2010-07-18 18:26:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Stephen, Redesign the dollar mark so that it is worth more instead ;-)
  created: '2010-07-18 19:08:05'
- author:
    name: Devadaru
    picture: 114607
  body: "Are the other four finalists\u2019 designs (or any others) on view anywhere?\r\n\u2014D"
  created: '2010-07-19 15:17:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'the tenge has it''s own Unicode value already: U+20B8'
  created: '2010-07-21 00:48:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Whew, I knew there was some tenge missing! Glad you found it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-22 01:26:06'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: 'John, once a code position for this character is assigned it is beyond unlikely
    that anyone will change it. Rather, we will be encouraging people to use it to
    avoid proliferation of competing encodings. '
  created: '2010-07-30 09:45:54'
- author:
    name: aszszelp
    picture: 113906
  body: "Dear Friends,\r\n\r\nEven though I drew these sketches immediately the day
    after I read on the Unicode list about the rupee symbol being officially chosen,
    being busy I did not manage to upload my takes on the new rupee symbol.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'll
    start with an overview of my sketch:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/overview_3685.jpg]\r\n\r\nMy
    design process started with some basic considerations:\r\na) The design has to
    primarily fit to the latin alphabet, its R, and the latin numerals.\r\nb) It would
    be nice, if the Devanagari reverse weight distribution could be hinted without
    harming the latin style\r\nc) the \"R\" without the vertical stem looks unbalanced,
    as if it wanted to fall to the left. Try to balance this by the crossbars.\r\nd)
    finally, find a way to harmonize the crossbars, which should basically be thins,
    with the top width of 7 (and the bottom horizontal of 2)\r\n\r\nThe result follows:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/R-based_4355.jpg]\r\nTranscript:
    \"R-based with leg started further to the top, so that to resemble somewhat the
    Devanagari RA. However it still fits well into Latin _typographical_ tradition.
    Unfortunately it does not fit into the Latin letters otherwise, because it lacks
    support completely from the baseline. It's _instable,_labile_!\"\r\n\r\nMy design
    goals are reflected in the sketch as follows:\r\na) it's clearly based on an R
    and latin stroke width distribution\r\nb) the reverse stroke width of RA is reflected
    by a resemblance to its \"loop\" by the leg of the R protruding to the top left.\r\nc)
    the sign gains (relative) balance by the leg not reaching the left border, being
    relatively steep and by the crossbar being even shorter (pushing the centre of
    weight to the right to counter the letter's seeming falling left.\r\nd) the slight
    widening towards the right \u2014 towards the numbers to follow \u2014 of the
    topbar is intended to compensate visually for the 7's horizontal's width.\r\n\r\n\r\nAfter
    this sketch, still feeling that the sign was not stable enough, not \"resting\"
    on the baseline, I tried a more bold approach! I thought, if the Euro is allowed
    to be based on a C, not an E, maybe the Rupee could also be based on an other
    sign, resulting in the same topology. Admittedly, this is quite daring, but I
    hope you find it interesting:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q-based_3798.jpg]\r\nTranscript:
    \"Or one could use one of two Q-based designs, either with RA like loopback or
    with a more conventional Q-tail. See also sketch above!*\" \u2014 \"Here The Tail
    Of The \xABR\xBB Equates To The Wiggle Of \xABQ\xBB.\" \u2014 \"(It seems to be
    better with the Wiggle!)\"\r\n\r\nThe presented Q-based design replicates the
    topology of the Rupee sign: you have the top- and crossbar identically, the right
    side of the O-part corresponds to the P-part of R and the Q-tail to the R-leg.
    The benefit of this design is a multiple one: it's much more balanced, it sits
    more confortably on the baseline (especially the wiggly one, not the \"RA-ified
    one), AND it solves the problem of the CRAMPED BARS discussed earlier in this
    topic, which becomes a tough nut to crack especially in bold weights.\r\n\r\nWhile
    this is a more free interpretation of the Rupee sign, I believe, it's legitimate.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nFor
    one, I hope there's still someone who'll read \u2014 and who'll reflect \u2014
    on this late post. I'd be really interested in your remarks and critique.\r\n\r\n/Sz"
  created: '2010-10-05 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Szabolcs, hats off! for investing so much labour in that. \r\n\r\nAnd now
    put the pencil aside, take a broad-nib edding, clench your first and close your
    eyes."
  created: '2010-10-06 16:24:30'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Has anyone seen the new rupee symbol "in the wild"?
  created: '2010-10-09 08:30:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Just for completeness's sake, [[http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode6.0.0/|looks
    like]]  the new rupee symbol is at U+20B9, right?
  created: '2010-10-20 17:27:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Just for completeness's sake, looks like the new rupee symbol is at
    U+20B9, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nRight now my plan is to stick it in U+20a8 and and
    U+20b9 on the assumption that there are going to be users (incorrectly) looking
    for it in both slots."
  created: '2010-10-20 17:47:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Has anyone seen the new rupee symbol \"in the wild\"?\r\n\r\nDoes a tiny
    bitmap count? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rupee \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 20:13:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Maybe a grocer drew that one. ;-)
  created: '2010-10-21 10:51:50'
- author:
    name: evertype
    picture: 109455
  body: "Dunwich Type said:\r\n\r\n\"Right now my plan is to stick it in U+20a8 and
    and U+20b9 on the assumption that there are going to be users (incorrectly) looking
    for it in both slots.\"\r\n\r\nThat is absolutely THE WRONG THING TO DO. That
    will have the effect of helping people create data with the incorrect code point.
    U+20A8 should be a Rs ligature of some kind, and U+20B9 is the new INDIAN RUPEE
    SIGN. "
  created: '2010-11-02 10:37:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'these contests should require that designers submit two designs: one at a
    regular weight and one at a ultra-bold weight.'
  created: '2011-01-13 20:03:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Sounds like a comment someone who's half way through adding the symbol to
    a ton of fonts :-)
  created: '2011-01-13 23:16:15'
date: '2010-07-15 16:29:16'
title: Here we go again... new Indian currency symbol

---
