---
author:
  name: Richard Fink
  picture: 117375
body: "A roundup of the IE9 team's thinking on fonts was posted yesterday:\r\n<a href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/b/ie/archive/2010/07/15/the-css-corner-better-web-typography-for-better-design.aspx\">The
  CSS Corner: Better Web Typography For Better Design</a>\r\nIt reports that IE9 will
  support \"raw\" fonts but only if the hidden embedding bits are set to \"installable\".\r\n\r\nIn
  a comment there, I wrote:\r\n<em>Opera, Firefox, Chrome, and Safari have no such
  DRM-like restriction built into their support for \"raw\" fonts. Why is IE breaking
  with the pack? What issue does support for such a hidden font de-activator address?
  Why not just drop support for raw fonts instead of this half-in, half-out stuff?</em>\r\n\r\nHere's
  my question:\r\nDo you think this is a good thing for those who ask for money for
  their fonts, or a bad thing? (Or conversely, do you think this is a good thing for
  the \"free\" font community, or a bad thing?)\r\n\r\nVery interested in how you
  see this....\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "When Safari added support for raw fonts over the strong objections of the
    web design and font community, one of the main concerns voiced was that unlicensed
    commercial desktop fonts would be posted to the web either in deliberate violation
    of the font\u2019s EULA or in ignorance of license restrictions. Apple\u2019s
    PR mentioning that \u201Cany\u201D font could be used under their scheme fueled
    those concerns. \r\n\r\nAs I described at ATypI last year the motivation for only
    supporting raw fonts set to installable embedding is to minimize the risks around
    posting of commercial desktop fonts. Commercial desktop fonts are not set to installable
    embedding, and a Web designer flipping the bits in commercial fonts would no longer
    be able to claim ignorance around licensing. I hope this restriction will reduce
    foundries policing and legal costs, and reduce associated ill-will around sending
    C&D's to small web site owners.\r\n\r\nThis solution is not perfect. I would have
    preferred a new opt-in, and I know most font vendors wanted IE hold-out against
    any support for raw fonts. However, I hope that future IE blog posts will explain
    the motivation here, and remove the misconception that the definitions of the
    embedding permissions have changed. \r\n\r\nStill interested in type designers
    and font vendors feelings about this. Given the publicity around font licensing,
    are the concerns of a few years back still valid? Have web designers got the message
    about font licensing? Should IE drop this restriction? \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 15:53:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "IE definitely should not drop this restriction, Si.\r\n\r\nThe reasons why
    WOFF exists and is being defined as a Web standard remain as valid now as they
    were a year ago when we started down that path. We've come a long way -- signalled
    not least by both Microsoft and Opera co-submitting the WOFF spec to the W3C along
    with Mozilla --, and that's because the concerns about casual misuse of TTF/OTF
    fonts in a Web-distributed environment are reasonable and need to be addressed.
    There's a lot of consensus now between font makers and browser makers regarding
    WOFF, including things like same origin restriction that I thought might be more
    contentious than it was.\r\n\r\nMy preference, as you know, is for IE9 to completely
    remove support for raw TTF/OTF before release. I don't see any good argument for
    a browser that supports WOFF to support raw fonts. The idea that this benefits
    free and open source font makers/users isn't very convincing, because any free
    or open source font can be freely and openly packaged as a WOFF file and gains
    compression in the process. Simply put, WOFF is a better technical format for
    web typography than raw fonts. Further, as I argued on the W3C font list last
    year, the onus is on protecting that which is most at risk, not on protecting
    that which does not require protection. Commercial fonts need protection from
    casual unlicensed use; free fonts do not need protection from technically beneficient
    formats into which they may be freely packaged.\r\n\r\nI accept your arguments,
    Si, for why the embedding bit is implemented and how it protects the majority
    of fonts against unlicensed Web use with IE. But I still don't see any good grounds
    for supporting the raw fonts in the first place, and while the restriction will
    \u2018reduce foundries policing and legal costs\u2019 relative to open raw font
    linking, it will increase them relative to not supporting raw fonts at all.\r\n\r\nAs
    for checking off another random feature in the Acid 3 test... I call bullsh\u0456t
    on a nominal Web standards test that demands support for something that isn't
    a Web standard. And I think Microsoft should call bullsh\u0456t on it too.\r\n\r\nI
    look forward to future IE blog posts further explaining the thinking behind the
    raw fonts support. But I'm not expecting to have my opinion reformed."
  created: '2010-07-16 18:58:46'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: .
  created: '2010-07-16 19:18:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I hate to follow a squirrel dropping, but...\r\n\r\nsii>Commercial desktop
    fonts are not set to installable embedding...\r\n\r\nfirst off, for a recent client,
    we originally sent TT/OTF fonts set to Editable Embedding. They were unable to
    embed the fonts using MSOffice 2003. We tested the fonts locally using WindowsXP
    and Word 2007 and had the same result. \r\n\r\nWe rebuild the fonts as: TT/OTF
    with Installable Embedding. Our tests showed the fonts then embedding using WindowsXP
    and Word 2007. The client also embedded the fonts successfully with Word 2003,
    2007 and 2010.\r\n\r\nSo on one hand you are saying that we don't set the bit
    this way for print clients, but on the other, if clients are to use fonts with
    the embedding bits as intended, we have to set for both print and web the same.
    I think that's a no-go part as they say in the airline industry. \r\n\r\nIn Mexico,
    I asked you what to call the introduction of a web font to the system so that
    it could be used for the display of web sites, but not appear in menus or the
    fonts folder, and you wanted to call it \"enumerated to the system.\" So, what
    are we to call fonts with bits set to install, that enumerate but don't install?
    ;)\r\n\r\nsii> Still interested in type designers and font vendors feelings about
    this.\r\n\r\nI guess my meelings are fixed. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-16 22:33:13'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nThanks for your take on this. And you know I would not have minded
    one bit (sorry) if JH got his druthers and TTF/OTF were *not* supported. But I
    understand that the IE team's hand was forced by several factors.\r\n(And if I
    shouted the \"D\" word a little too loudly, perhaps I've been insensitive. I can
    see that.)\r\n\r\nDB's story sums up my misgivings, also. No matter what side
    of the argument I argue - and I can argue both sides, with feeling, on this one
    - nothing persuasive emerges.\r\nAll I'm left with is yet another weird complication
    I - and every web author, font designer, anybody - has to factor into an already
    complicated mix.\r\n\r\nI mean, it would be a heck of thing if - in trying to
    help font designers - all you got for the effort was *everybody* muttering about
    IE9 and why the heck did MSFT make everybody's life more complicated? Just couldn't
    leave it simple, huh?\r\nI think if you look five years down the road, maybe a
    lot less, that's what you're going to get.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-17 01:14:39'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: . .. . ...    <--- Ha ha who cares about fonts anyway. Look at me, I made
    lot's o' squirrel doo! Thanks DB for the laugh.
  created: '2010-07-17 02:48:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "David makes a valid point there are a handful of commercial fonts out that
    that have been intentionally and in some cases unintentionally set to \"installable\".
    That's why it's important to note that we're not saying \"installable = redistributable\",
    rather \"installable = probably not commercial\" - there's no way to avoid the
    standard issue answer of \"read the eula\".\r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-17 22:57:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for you thoughtful responses. So, what you are saying Sii is that
    your products, in order to function as advertised, (and unless a user needs a
    font for both embedding in word and linking to IE), require that we put conflicting
    embedding bits in our fonts. Have I got that right?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-18 12:31:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I find it had to escape the implication that \u2018installable = web linkable\u2019
    -- since that is the functionality of the implementation --, and by principle
    of equivalence \u2018web linkable = installable\u2019.\r\n\r\nCan anyone decode
    this? What \"had to escape the implication\".\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-18 12:33:35'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "David \u2014 There\u2019s a typo. I\u2019m certain JH meant \u201CI find
    it hard to escape the implication&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.\u201D"
  created: '2010-07-18 13:36:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sure, read the EULA. Read it over breakfast when there are no newspapers
    left. :)\r\n\r\nBut in terms of what the IE9 implementation is \u2018saying\u2019
    -- which isn't necessarily the same as what Microsoft is saying here or at ATypI
    etc., but is likely to be louder and heard by more people --, I find it hard to
    escape the implication that \u2018installable = web linkable\u2019 -- since that
    is the functionality of the implementation --, and by principle of equivalence
    \u2018web linkable = installable\u2019. The latter is what I really think you
    should not be saying, or even suggesting coyly."
  created: '2010-07-18 17:18:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yes, typo. Fixed.
  created: '2010-07-18 17:18:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Have I got that right?\r\n\r\nI would recommend licensing web-linked fonts
    in the WOFF format, and leave raw fonts to the open source and freeware crowd.
    \r\n\r\n> I find it hard to escape the implication that \u2018installable = web
    linkable\u2019 -- \r\n\r\nYep, that's indeed the main problem with this approach. "
  created: '2010-07-18 23:16:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Geeze, I wish I could read better. \r\n\r\n>I would recommend licensing web-linked
    fonts in the WOFF format,\r\n\r\nIs that what Microsoft is planning to do?\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 13:03:47'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii and everybody:\r\n\r\nIf this decision stands, I am concerned about
    the technical repercussions.\r\nIE9 can't know if a TTF or CFF font is \"unsuitable
    by reason of installability\" as a web font until it downloads it and inspects.
    This takes time - at least until the font is cached.\r\nAt that point, if the
    font is deemed installable, I believe the plan is for IE9 to do a lookback to
    see if any other resource in *any other* @font-face font stack within the rule
    might be suitable. (Still more time taken.)\r\n\r\nFrankly, I'm having trouble
    wrapping my mind around exactly what this means without testing and I find the
    IE9 preview unwieldy for testing. (When my consulting partner in New York passed
    away a couple of years ago, my Technet subscription and some other Microsoft affiliations
    fell through the cracks - so I don't have a build to play with, if there is one
    available.)\r\nSo I'll revisit when I have more hands-on and hopefully by then
    some other Typophile members might have had a chance to assess. It's vacation
    time.\r\n\r\nLastly, from the department of \"Please Don't Pee On My Leg And tell
    Me It's Raining\", I have found the IE Blog posts about this to be a tad on the
    spinful side. The \"must not be set to installable\" aspect of the TTF/OTF support
    is being deliberately played down - let us not talk falsely.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ie9woffannounce_3701.png]\r\n\r\nAlong
    with JH, I eagerly await further explanation. (Although I think I could write
    it myself - perhaps I should and see how it compares.)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-07-19 15:34:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>aspect of the TTF/OTF support is being deliberately played down - let
    us not talk falsely.\r\n\r\nRaw font support should be played down as should EOT
    support. The future is WOFF. \r\n "
  created: '2010-07-19 15:57:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'It was a simple question: Is MS licensing web-linked fonts in the WOFF format?'
  created: '2010-07-19 16:44:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Bundled fonts: We have boilerplate language in our product EULAs that disallows
    font format conversion and modification and also limits redistribution to temporary
    download to output devices (like laser printers) and document embedding based
    on the embedding permissions in each font. So based on this our product EULAs
    do not currently allow our fonts to be converted to WOFF for linking. \r\n\r\nIndividual
    fonts: We typically do not license individual Microsoft owned fonts to web developers.
    Instead we have an agreement with Ascender Corp to license them on our behalf.
    Ascender is free to license our fonts in WOFF format to their customers. \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 16:57:28'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "As Si has pointed out, Ascender is actively offering web fonts licenses for
    many of the fonts featured in Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office. Our <strong>[[http://www.fontslive.com/|FontsLive.com]]</strong>
    web font service does indeed support WOFF. FontsLive also dynamically supports
    the other formats required to serve web fonts to the various web browsers.\r\n\r\nI
    firmly agree that WOFF is the future for web fonts and we should focus on that.
    \r\n\r\nInstallable Embedding is a reasonable compromise, so it is better than
    nothing for a raw font. Yes, we too would have preferred that IE9 not support
    raw fonts, but we understand their reasons. \r\n\r\nMaybe we should instead focus
    on writing emails to the Acid3 folks to get them to add support for WOFF to their
    tests, so then IE9 could drop raw fonts! Rich - do you know who we should contact
    to start up a campaign to get WOFF support added to the Acid3 tests?"
  created: '2010-07-19 17:57:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I mentioned the Acid3 test in Mexico and in an earlier post. Should point
    out that IE\u2019s support for raw fonts is not a knee-jerk reaction to Acid3,
    but rather to keep pace with competing browsers font-format support. Note slide
    29 here  http://people.mozilla.org/~jdaggett/webfontsfuture.pdf "
  created: '2010-07-19 18:17:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "John, I do not believe the IE team added this deliberately to make you grumpy
    :-( \r\n\r\nRichard, I've passed on the \"perf\" concerns to the appropriate engineer
    in IE. "
  created: '2010-07-19 21:07:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "BD> Ascender is actively offering web fonts licenses for many of the fonts
    featured in Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office.\r\n\r\nThanks for that news.\r\n\r\nThe
    question is what will come bundled with MS software, and if the answer is that
    the installed base of EULAs is prohibiting change, you can imagine perhaps how
    the same environment effects other developers as the tide of format acceptance
    sloshes back and forth. Will your EULAs change as new systems and UAs are delivered?\r\n\r\nJH>
    Here is what that comparison should look like:\r\n\r\n...but what it really is,
    is red dots all along the top and blue dots all along the left column, (now with
    IE OT linking) with W3C and developers never dropping OT and SVG support. When
    WOFF becomes the future, I'll wear spandex for a week and fly around in a sky
    car in penitence for my ignorance. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-19 22:02:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Will your EULAs change as new systems and UAs are delivered?\r\n\r\nDon't
    know. Probably not. Will as you say, depend on what other font suppliers allow. "
  created: '2010-07-19 22:32:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>but what it really is, is red dots all along the top</em>\r\n\r\nNope.
    The W3C are standardising a single web font format, and that's WOFF. None of the
    other formats supported by browsers for @font-face are W3C standards. The W3C
    will standardise some things that are to be expected of web fonts independent
    of format, but only one format is being standardised.\r\n\r\nI've no idea where
    to buy spandex, but you can get your sky car here:\r\nhttp://www.terrafugia.com/"
  created: '2010-07-20 03:25:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Between web authors being able to license web font versions of MS fonts from
    Ascender and the possibility of Microsoft or a partner setting up a web font server
    system as Google are doing, I don't see any need for a Windows EULA to permit
    user conversion of bundled system fonts to WOFF.
  created: '2010-07-20 03:30:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si: <em>...to keep pace with competing browsers font-format support. Note
    slide 29 her...</em>\r\n\r\nStill doesn't make any sense to me. John Daggett's
    slide shows exactly what we don't want browser font-format support to look like:
    with TTF/OTF looking as if it is the cross-browser format of choice. It isn't,
    and IE9's embedding bit restricted implementation doesn't make it so: it just
    gives that impression in an un-annotated comparison that gives an incomplete picture.
    Here is what that comparison should look like:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/webfontformatcomp_4439.png]\r\n\r\nIn
    this view, IE doesn't need to keep pace with a non-standard font-format approach
    because you're ahead of two of the four other browsers in the standard approach.
    Why waste time and coding on supporting something that is unnecessary, doesn't
    provide any benefit, isn't compatible with other browser implementations of the
    same format anyway, [edit: <s>excise \u2018will make IE slower than other browsers
    due to added processing of checking embedding bits\u2019</s> -- apparently not
    the case according to IE programmer], and makes me grumpy?"
  created: '2010-07-20 03:34:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ":)\r\n\r\nSii>Probably not [EULA changes at MS]\r\n\r\nWell, you can only
    go on for so long without changing the input as technology runs on to new outputs.
    Are not some or all of the fonts you\u2019all bundle set for installing so they
    work with Word?\r\n\r\nJH> The W3C are standardizing a single web font format,
    and that's WOFF.\r\n\r\nTell your vision to the website designers who need installable
    desktop fonts to do their jobs, now and for the unforseeable future. And to the
    founders making or licensing fonts only for the web. And to the godfather of web
    type, who's WOFF emedding for print. And tell it to the \u201Cother\u201D Microsoft,
    the one that Sii bravely represents to us. And tell it to the phantoms making
    interactive web design tools. If you don't understand what I\u2019m talking about,
    envision solutions today, <em>and</em> envision a plan for getting all kinds of
    developers and developerees to the all-WOFF future you and Mr. Davis have in mind.
    \r\n\r\nBut in the mean time, OT is the commonly supported format. So, (ahem),
    should we add some information to the OT spec, or what?\r\n\r\nMaybe the garden
    fence idea of EOT and WOFF are great, but several kinds of time and thus many
    kinds of money are against them. MS helped us all cut the ribbon on the completed
    garden fence. But then, when we came back from the pub, there was a superhighway.
    This is, as they said, the best MS could do. A mass for the garden will be said
    at noon on the 28th, in the main chapel of St. Bonaventura de la Futura, corner
    of Baskeville and Helvetica, bring peas and carrots.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 15:35:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Are not some or all of the fonts you\u2019all bundle set for installing
    so they work with Word?\r\n\r\nNo. Historically there were four settings, no embedding,
    print and preview, editable and installable. Originally Word supported the installable
    setting as spec\u2019d, and would permanently install (enumerate) embedded fonts
    set to installable in the system. Although such fonts were relatively uncommon
    this did cause some user confusion and support issues \u201Chow did font \u2018x\u2019
    get on my system?\u201D. With the Internet and the increased attack vectors and
    the possibilities of mischief we decided that support for installable embedding
    was probably a bad idea, and at that point Word started treating \u201Cinstallable\u201D
    fonts as \u201Ceditable\u201D, at that point we also set the handful of \u201Cinstallable\u201D
    fonts we were shipping to \u201Ceditable\u201D.  In general we try to only ship
    fonts set to \u201Ceditable.\u201D\r\n\r\nEarlier in this thread you mentioned
    having to set fonts to \u201Cinstallable\u201D to solve customer issues. That\u2019s
    not something I\u2019d encountered before. Happy to investigate that at our end
    if you can provide a repro case. \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 15:54:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, we've been here before. Everyone was telling me that Type 1 PS fonts
    were going to be the commonly supported format for so long and that OpenType was
    only maybe going to be the future, maybe one day, maybe just on Windows, maybe
    never in Quark Xpress which was, of course, going to be the most widely used page
    layout software forever.\r\n\r\nThere is no \u2018commonly supported format\u2019
    for web fonts. In terms of widely used current browsers there is a combination
    of EOT and TTF/OTF. Any web designer who thinks he can \u2018do his job\u2019
    with TTF/OTF only isn't serving well over half his audience. So we're already
    in a situation of web designers having to serve multiple formats for different
    browsers, and that is the situation that is not going to change any time very
    soon. What is going to change soon -- what is already changing -- is browser makers
    rapidly moving to support a genuine common format in their new browsers, which
    is WOFF. I can say this with some certainty: EOT as a necessary compatibility
    evil is going to stick around a heck of a lot longer than raw font linking. From
    where I'm sitting, raw font linking is already an obsolete technology -- an \u2018also
    ran\u2019 like SVG, Flash fonts, PhotoFonts, etc. --, and IE9's embedding bit-restricted
    implementation does nothing to change this. Indeed, one of the things that I find
    weird about IE9's support for raw font linking is that it seems so 2009."
  created: '2010-07-20 18:35:31'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "This is all very enlightening.\r\n\r\nI have to agree with John, but with
    the sole caveat that alarms have been raised since the word \"Napster\" entered
    the English lexicon. Piracy is a thing of the present, past, and the future and
    I think that developers will be focusing on preparedness\u2014and not\u2014alternative
    directions.\r\n\r\nThat said... typography isn't well understood by the public.
    Unless you are explicitly worried about DESIGNERS stealing fonts\u2014and on that
    we can agree\u2014I'm not so sure how many people we can expect digging through
    web servers to pilfer out what they most desire.\r\n\r\n(Funny story: The only
    person I know who ever tried to pirate a font did so after I suggested they take
    Pentagram's \"What Type are you?\" test. Touching in a perverse way.)\r\n\r\nAs
    to db's concern: I'm no software developer but should we see no reason why a TTF/OT
    conversion service should not be made available? I'm fuzzy on details concerning
    <em>current</em> conversion services (<em>!!</em>) but if what WOFF has to offer
    us is compression and meta data I do not see\u2014in theory only\u2014how those
    elements cannot be tacked on retrospectively but a nicely built piece of code.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 19:58:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It's always comforting when people who are fuzzy on the details agree with
    John. ;)\r\n\r\nJH> Any web designer who thinks he can \u2018do his job\u2019
    with TTF/OTF only isn't serving well over half his audience\r\n\r\nYou missed
    dah point. What I said is that web designers who use Photoshop e.g., CANNOT do
    their job without OT (Comprendo!?). But as of IE9, they can do their jobs and
    serve well over half the audience too. \r\n\r\nUnless someone drops support for
    OT before MS releases IE9, the planets are aligned for people making fonts and
    web sites, (as opposed to people making trouble and quite literally nothing else).
    \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 12:43:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "sii> Originally Word supported the installable setting as spec\u2019d, and
    would permanently install (enumerate) embedded fonts set to installable in the
    system. [...] this did cause some user confusion and support issues \u201Chow
    did font \u2018x\u2019 get on my system?\u201D\r\n\r\nPlease \u2014 Enumerate,
    was a term you gave to me to describe an installed but menu-invisible font. You
    seem to be confused by my use of your term. Installed means (meant) the user was
    able to see the font in menus, and we were looking for another term when users
    could not see the fonts in menus \u2014\_Remembr\xE9?\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I can imagine
    users who spend 2% of their entire lives watching windows updates with 100's of
    files, becoming utterly alarmed by fonts showing up in their menus via documents.
    As we all know most windows users have their font menus memorized, so the support
    for install-bit fonts must have been truly and amazingly massive.\r\n\r\nBut overall,
    it seems MS has \"roto-tilled\" the definitions of the embedding bits so users
    and developers no longer can count on the definitions matching actions of your
    products. Is that a fair description of the state of Microsoft's treatment of
    these bits found in ISO's OFF specification?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-21 13:34:22'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii,\r\n\r\n>Have web designers got the message about font licensing?\r\n\r\nAnd
    what might that \"message\" be, pray tell?\r\n\r\nHere's my challenge to you Sii:
    write up a one, two, hey - even three paragraph guide called, \"Font Licensing:
    What Web Authors Should Know\" and publish it. Tell me simply, briefly, succinctly,
    and accurately exactly how web authors should go about making decisions regarding
    font licensing. Go ahead, I double dare ya.\r\n\r\nThe fact is - in the absence
    of a universal standaradized font license - you can't do it. Nobody can. Not you,
    not your lawyers. Plus you wouldn't do it anyway because such a thing would need
    to draw a \"bright line\" - and FUD (fear, uncertainty, and doubt) works much
    more to your advantage.\r\n\r\nThe best I can do is parrot Hillel:\r\n\"Do not
    do unto others as you would not have them do unto you.\"\r\nHowzat sound for a
    rule of thumb?\r\n\r\nI fear, frankly, that IE9's enforcement of the bits is born
    of nothing more than petulance - a wag of the finger. If MSFT is collectively
    pissed that, with regards to EOT and web fonts, it got the rug pulled out from
    under them, I can understand that. But I hope everybody isn't being made to pay
    for MSFT's frustrations.\r\nYou win some, you lose some.\r\nArguing \"consistency\"
    - which what the argument is going to be, right? - is, in this instance, baloney.\r\n\r\nHere's
    what I've decided to do:\r\nOnce IE9 goes into public Beta and the practical implications
    of handling raw fonts this way - on web authors, font producers, whoever - becomes
    more clear, I will be using EOTFAST's mailing list - for the first time - to hang
    a lantern on this and get a reaction. The list is pretty large at this point and
    includes a lot of font savvy people who actually know what embedding bits are.\r\n\r\nThis
    will be done transparently so everybody can be kept in the loop.\r\nAnd the results
    will be published.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of data - I have no doubt that the IE
    team has compiled much data to support this decision. The problem is that data
    from a world in which there is no ubiquitous @font-face support and every other
    browser ignores the bits, means zilch.\r\n\r\n\r\n@bill davis\r\n\r\n>web fonts
    licenses\r\n\r\nAscender is <em>not</em> offering \"web fonts licenses\" but you
    keep saying it does.\r\nI know they pay you to do that but still.\r\nYou may feel
    it's harmless sales puffery - putting your best foot forward.\r\nI call it Orwellian
    Newspeak. A subscription to a FHOS service is not a \"web fonts license\" by any
    web author's - or anybody's - ordinary understanding of the term.\r\n\r\nBill,
    the terms and conditions under which Ascender decides to offer fonts is Ascender's
    decision. My objecting to it or not objecting to it rests on practical considerations
    from the web user's and web author's point of view. \r\nBut call it what it is,
    please.\r\n(Or are we going to have to have yet another <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/fontconf-in-minneapolisst-paul/#smackdown\">smack-down</a>
    to settle this once and for all?)\r\n\r\nLater, I gotta go aggravate other people
    now."
  created: '2010-07-21 15:17:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "David, sorry for confusing the term enumerate. \r\n\r\n>But overall, it seems
    MS has \"roto-tilled\" the definitions of the embedding bits so users and developers
    no longer can count on the definitions matching actions of your products. Is that
    a fair description of the state of Microsoft's treatment of these bits found in
    ISO's OFF specification?\r\n\r\nNo, not at all. The embedding permissions were
    defined with foundry input, and we\u2019ve gone to lengths to ensure that we observe
    them, for example in locking documents that contain a print & preview embedded
    \ fonts. The fact that we stopped installing \"installable\" embedding fonts,
    but didn't propose changing the wording of the spec meant that we were not imposing
    our view on the rest of the app development community. \r\n\r\n>And what might
    that \"message\" be, pray tell?\r\n\r\nJust because you can link to any font via
    @font-face doesn\u2019t mean you are allowed to, in fact you probably aren't.
    Read the license, check with the foundry.\r\n\r\n>Here's my challenge to you Sii:
    write up a one, two, hey - even three paragraph guide called, \"Font Licensing:
    What Web Authors Should Know\" and publish it\r\n\r\nNo problem... \r\n\r\nJust
    because you can link to any font via @font-face doesn\u2019t mean you are allowed
    to, in fact you probably aren't. Read the license, check with the foundry.\r\n\r\nWRT
    the IE team (like all the browser makers) just supporting raw fonts over the objections
    of font designers, and letting the market sort things out would have been the
    path of least resistance. The fact that Mozilla and IE did take on board the views
    of type designers and submitted WOFF for standardization speaks to them doing
    the right thing. \r\n\r\nWRT to Ascender, for sure they're pushing a service model,
    that seems like the best approach right now from a support (need to serve four
    formats) and business perspective. But I know they are licensing WOFFs - as I
    licensed two fonts in that format for our IE9 Web fonts demo."
  created: '2010-07-21 16:28:44'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "RF -- <cite>Here's my challenge to you Sii</cite>\r\n\r\nAs a little reminder,
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/71605\" target=\"_blank\">this has been discussed
    here</a>. Trying to keep people busy? Explain yourself. Explain yourself again.
    And again ... Your \"requests\" -- lowercase and all-caps versions alike -- have
    been heard and understood and the answer was: Read the EULA please.\r\n\r\nRF
    -- <cite>The list is pretty large at this point and includes a lot of font savvy
    people who actually know what embedding bits are. This will be done transparently
    so everybody can be kept in the loop. And the results will be published.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    feel sorry for those who subscribed."
  created: '2010-07-21 16:56:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "When Rich starts speculating on the psychological motivations behind things
    he half understands, the conversation must be close to over.\r\n\r\nDavid: <em>What
    I said is that web designers who use Photoshop e.g., CANNOT do their job without
    OT (Comprendo!?). But as of IE9, they can do their jobs and serve well over half
    the audience too.</em>\r\n\r\nWell no, they can't, because the fonts that they're
    using in Photoshop are not licensed for Web linking. And even if they were, most
    of them wouldn't work as raw fonts with IE9 anyway on account of the fact that
    the embedding bits are most likely set to 'Print and Preview', which is the most
    common setting for commercially licensed fonts. So they're going to need new licenses
    and new fonts, regardless of what format they're serving to particular browsers.
    [Of course, you're going to want to do that anyway, since you want to add metadata
    to your web-licensed fonts.] And they're also going to need EOT because any web
    designer who doesn't care about IE6-8 isn't really a web designer, not matter
    how pretty his websites look in Safari, any more than someone who beautifully
    roasts a suckling pig for a large party of people whom he has been told are mostly
    vegetarians is a real chef.\r\n\r\nSo you'll end up with multiple versions of
    the same TTF/OTF files kicking around on users systems and servers, with different
    embedding bit settings, to achieve the same thing in the same IE9 browser that
    you can achieve on the same day -- not in the future -- with WOFF."
  created: '2010-07-21 17:13:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">As a little reminder,\r\n\r\nNow you tell me. I'll never get those eight
    minutes back. :-(\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 17:17:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>Here's my challenge to you Sii: write up a one, two, hey - even
    three paragraph guide called, \"Font Licensing: What Web Authors Should Know\"
    and publish it.</em>\r\n\r\nOr just take the \u2018Font Licensing: What Desktop
    Publishers Should Know\u2019 guide that every major foundry produced c.1995 and
    change some of the wording. I know you're very new to all this font and typography
    stuff, Rich, but some of us have been here before, some of us more than once."
  created: '2010-07-21 17:23:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>...most of them [OT fonts] wouldn't work as raw fonts with IE9 anyway
    on account of the fact that the embedding bits are most likely set to 'Print and
    Preview'\r\n\r\nOur new garden fence!\r\n\r\n>...they're also going to need EOT
    because any web designer who doesn't care about IE6-8...\r\n\r\n...they're also
    going to need OT because any web designer who doesn't care about all the other
    browsers...\r\n\r\n>any more than someone who beautifully roasts a suckling pig
    for a large party of people whom he has been told are mostly vegetarians is a
    real chef.\r\n\r\nSo you can imagine my reaction when neither real chefs nor actual
    vegetarians are involved in the recipe process and the suckling pig is cleverly
    made of oddly-shaped squash.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-22 12:24:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...they're also going to need OT because any web designer who
    doesn't care about all the other browsers...</em>\r\n\r\nOf the two browsers in
    John Daggett's comparison that do not currently support WOFF, one is a co-sponsor
    of the WOFF format standardisation, and the other appears to be actively engaged
    in WOFF implementation. Also bear in mind that unlike IE, these other browsers
    have a proven track record of getting new versions out more often and getting
    users to update. Backwards compatibility with browser versions that only support
    raw font linking is not going to be a significant issue.\r\n\r\nThere are other
    browsers not included in John D's comparison, of course, including any number
    of embedded browsers on mobile devices, but they too have a vested interest in
    implementing web standards and most have a push model for updates (my Palm Pre
    updated itself a few days ago, without me having to do anything except acknowledge
    that I wouldn't be able to make phonecalls while it happened)."
  created: '2010-07-22 16:07:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: <em>Backwards compatibility with browser versions that only support
    raw font linking is not going to be a significant issue.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, my everlasting
    point, those browsers will maintain backward compatibility forever.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the plan? How do we get to an all and only WOFF future?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-22 20:50:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...those browsers will maintain backward compatibility forever.</em>\r\n\r\nSo?
    They'll presumably continue to support SVG fonts forever too. That doesn't make
    SVG a necessary format for any font foundry to license for.\r\n\r\nBrowser makers
    want a single, cross-browser compatible web font format. Web authors want a single,
    cross-browser compatible web font format. Font vendors want a single, cross-browser
    compatible web font format. And all three groups have very clearly identified
    WOFF as the only format on which they can all very readily agree.\r\n\r\nToday,
    the W3C approved transition of the WOFF File Format 1.0 from a working draft to
    a public review stage. \r\n\r\n<em>What's the plan? How do we get to an all and
    only WOFF future?</em>\r\n\r\nBy only licensing fonts for web use in WOFF format.\r\n\r\nGiven
    the way browsers are now upgraded, I'd say that within a year more than half of
    users will be working with WOFF-enabled browsers, and the majority of the rest
    will still be working with browsers that only support EOT. The number working
    with browsers that only support raw font linking is going to be very small. EOT
    is going to be a much bigger albatross around the neck of web authors and font
    vendors for very much longer."
  created: '2010-07-23 00:06:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH:\r\n\r\n>Browser makers want... Web authors want a single... Font vendors
    want...\r\n\r\nBrowser makers just want OT, it's all OS's can use. Why would they
    want to convert and enumerate instead of just enumerating? Web authors have not
    asked for WOFF, just sanity. Font vendors is a  relative term: those who do, vs
    those who talk about talking about it.  \r\n\r\n>...[all have] identified WOFF
    as the only format on which they can all very readily agree.\r\n\r\nHow about
    now that WOFF has NONE of the features promised; no std. meta data, no embedding
    bit disambiguation, no garden fence and before it'll be popular enough, or compatible
    with interactive design tools, OT will already have established itself. \r\n\r\n>By
    only licensing fonts for web use in WOFF format.\r\n\r\nThat's your plan ;) Like
    I said, we're in business and this would be bad for our business. EOT was the
    last albatross, and WOFF is the next one, but through it all, we'll supply OT
    and no one will complain. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 01:46:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, you're wrong. Just wrong. I'm tired of debating with you. You and
    I have a lot of things that we agree on that, in my opinion, are now more important
    than the web font format issue which is out of your hands. It isn't out of my
    hands, because I'm actually involved in the W3C standards process, but ultimately
    all that process can do is provide a mechanism and trust that its benefits will
    be obvious to browser makers and to our colleagues. I think the benefits are significant
    and that the result will be that raw font linking is as dead-in-the-water as I
    want it to be and you will ultimately be happy for it to be.\r\n\r\nWhat is more
    important? The quality of text fonts on the web. Let's get on with it shall we?"
  created: '2010-07-23 05:07:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">David, you're wrong. Just wrong. \r\n\r\nI have one of the longest resumes
    on the planet on this issue from a typographic point of view, so please be specific,
    (or at least choose a winner). \r\n\r\n>Let's get on with it shall we?\r\n\r\nI
    stand opposed, John, as a result of quite expensive and time consuming \"getting
    on with it\" you will not only experience as a user, I'm sure,  as all the fonts,
    css and templates are open to \"study\". \r\n\r\n>It isn't out of my hands, because
    I'm actually involved in the W3C standards process...\r\n\r\nMeet your latest
    gesticulation, IE9. \r\n\r\n>I'm actually involved in the W3C standards process,
    but ultimately all that process can do is provide a mechanism and trust that its
    benefits will be obvious to browser makers and to our colleagues...\r\n\r\nI stand
    opposed, John, as a result of failure of trust coming from the users you have
    now, and correctly, left out of the \"clamor\" for WOFF.\r\n\r\nSome progress
    at least.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 14:31:03'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: David, am I reading you wrong? Will FontBureau be distributing OT fonts for
    the web? Will the webfonts for the Ready-Media website templates you are developing
    be OT as well?
  created: '2010-07-23 15:47:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I have been specific. I've pointed out the specific reasons why existing
    raw font linking in some browsers is irrelevant to the future of web fonts, why
    IE9's peculiar hobbled raw font linking doesn't change this but only confuses
    people, why the proven upgrade take-up of all the non-IE browsers makes raw font
    linking compatibility a short-term issue, why EOT fonts will be a compatibility
    issue for very much longer than raw font linking, why all the major browser makers
    have either already implemented WOFF support or are in the process of doing so,
    why even the browser (Opera) that first introduced raw font linking has already
    implemented WOFF support, and why no one other than you is still talking about
    raw font linking.\r\n\r\n<em>Meet your latest gesticulation, IE9.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have. It supports WOFF. Oh, and DWrite rendering for both TTF and CFF. These are
    significant developments. Implementation of raw font linking that <em>by design</em>
    can't be used for the majority of fonts and is untouchable by most font vendors
    because it actually makes web fonts less protected than desktop fonts, by treating
    them all as installable, is not a significant development. It's just confusing
    and unnecessary."
  created: '2010-07-23 16:42:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "fs> Will FontBureau ...\r\n\r\nThat's secret. Your second question, I have
    to say R-M templates are made in indesign. I asked, several times, but John seems
    to think only WOFF-only world only. Oh well, I guess we won't be licensing any
    of his templates ;)\r\n\r\nJH> David, I have been specific.... and why no one
    other than you is still talking about raw font linking.\r\n\r\nAll I said is that
    for the first time, all the browsers will be supporting OT. That's all. \r\n\r\nAnd
    you have not said how the spandex future works, that OT was here, and then it
    was gone. That OT sites, designers and development processes were here, and then
    they were gone. \r\n\r\nDW has nothing to do with the topic, but I'm delighted
    by this 'significant' development.\r\n\r\n>It's just confusing and unnecessary.\r\n\r\nI
    understand the first thing, but it'd have to be proven to me that IE with OT linking
    is unnecessary. And MS obviously agrees with me. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 19:29:34'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: I realize this is off-topic, but did you just say that the Ready-Media WEBSITE
    templates are being designed in indesign? I realize the magazine ones are... but
    the RM website says that you are designing the fonts for the WEB templates.
  created: '2010-07-23 19:38:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "fs>...you are designing the fonts for the WEB templates.\r\n\r\nArguing about
    formats and piercing the wording of technical documents are not my main jobs.
    Text designs for the web are an obvious part of the greater \"getting-on-with-it\"
    that John speaks of.\r\n\r\nThat's all mostly in my rear view mirror, though I've
    got one more family to complete and other designers to help along. These fonts
    all look outstanding in IE9 regardless of embedding permissions, for the thread's
    sake. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 21:26:38'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "<cite>Text designs for the web are an obvious part of the greater \"getting-on-with-it\"...</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    And who better to lead the next wave than you! Looking forward to it, seriously."
  created: '2010-07-23 22:14:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...all the browsers will be supporting OT.</em>\r\n\r\nBut IE9
    isn't really supporting raw TTF/OTF linking. Raw font linking that requires an
    installable embedding bit setting is so hobbled as to be meaningless for most
    commercial font licensing. Really, the large number of our colleagues who for
    well over a year objected raw font linking, wouldn't license for it, and supported
    Tal and Erik to come up with an alternative, they mean it. As Si says, the IE9
    raw font implementation is something that MS expects to only apply to open source
    and free software fonts. So in terms of a fully functioning web fonts ecosystem
    capable of supporting both freeware and commercial font licensing, it's a non
    starter.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, all the browsers are moving rapidly towards
    supporting WOFF and doing so in cross-browser compatible ways that don't rely
    on hacking embedding bit settings in OT fonts to make them less protected on the
    web than they are on the desktop.\r\n\r\n<em>And you have not said how the spandex
    future works, that OT was here, and then it was gone. That OT sites, designers
    and development processes were here, and then they were gone.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are precious few such sites -- precious few sites doing any @font-face linking
    --, and those that do exist are already having to serve EOT files alongside raw
    fonts in order to target the majority of users. Serving different file types to
    different browsers isn't a big deal. How will they switch to WOFF? By serving
    another file type and by changing a couple of lines of CSS code. As more browsers
    support WOFF, the demand to serve raw fonts to any browser goes down while the
    availability of a greater variety of fonts goes up, since so many foundries are
    not licensing for raw font linking. [Some of them are permitting obfuscated font
    serving by services such as Typekit, but both the foundries and the services describe
    this as an intermediary approach, and the whole set-up is designed to enable the
    format to be changed to WOFF on the server side without the web author needing
    to make any change to the site code.]\r\n\r\nNow, if you like, we can go to another
    thread and start talking about that \u2018availability of a greater variety of
    fonts\u2019 for the web. Because one thing that I think we agree on is that it
    is going to get quite unreadable around here very soon, and the slogan for your
    collaboration with Ascender can be \u2018Verdana: you've never had it so good'."
  created: '2010-07-23 22:51:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> But IE9 isn't really supporting raw TTF/OTF linking. \r\n\r\nWhat better
    place to start cleaning up the use of words?\r\n\r\n>...[OT] font linking that
    requires an installable embedding bit setting is so hobbled as to be meaningless\r\n\r\nJust
    watch then as a new meaning of meaningless is established. I've been schooled
    \ so I couldn't care less what the embedding bits say anymore. \r\n\r\n>Si says,
    the IE9 raw font implementation is something that MS expects to only apply to
    open source and free software fonts.\r\n\r\nAnd they are not changing their eulas.
    So, I guess <em>they</em> will be on the sidelines then.\r\n\r\n>There are precious
    few such sites -- precious few sites doing any @font-face linking\r\n\r\nI don't
    mean to offend, but are you ty-polar? Or... are the horses out of the barn when
    you want them to be, and in their stalls when you want them to be. If you see
    any IE guys in LA... tell them to put font-size-adjust in 9 before it's too late,
    or give you a whopping-huge reason why not.  \r\n\r\n>Serving different file types
    to different browsers isn't a big deal.\r\n\r\nI know. So why WOFF at me in the
    first place!?\r\n\r\n>...both the foundries and the services describe this (obfuscated
    OT service], as an intermediary approach\r\n\r\nWe're beyond intermediarizationability
    at Font Bureau. I completely understand where Microsoft, Tiro, Adobe, TypeSupply,
    LetterError, Bitstream, Monotype, FontShop, Emigre, House and the rest of the
    foundry representation to the WG are. I do not call on them for any kind of refutiation
    of their direction.\r\n\r\nJust leave me alone with this ax and that forest. When
    you'all get into the woods, I'll be there to help as I've tried privately on 1/2
    the list above, (with some notable successes to come). \r\n\r\n>I think we agree
    on is that it is going to get quite unreadable around here very soon\r\n\r\nYou
    would have explain <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/72584\">going to get?</a>
    :o\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-24 12:41:54'
date: '2010-07-16 14:55:20'
title: IE9 To Support Embedding Bits In Web Fonts - Thoughts?

---
