---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI'm 14 and I've been interested in type since I was 10. I've
  designed a typeface called expletus sans. Since I'm only 14 I don't have any educational
  background about typedesign.  This typeface is meant as a project to learn from
  so any comments, good or bad, are welcome. To judge it properly I suggest you download
  and print the pdf, so you won't make any misjudgements because of rendering issues.
  On flickr I've already had a lot help from Alexei Vanyshin, so special thanks to
  you Alexei! \r\n\r\nThanks a lot in advance,\r\n\r\nJasper de Waard\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletus-sans-advert5_5723.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I suggest you download it first so you can view the whole picture. Sorry for
    the inconvenience.
  created: '2010-07-18 18:53:16'
- author:
    name: xil3
    picture: 115456
  body: "First off Kudos to you. That is great work!\r\nI think the look you're going
    for really shines in the lowercase 't' and uppercase 'F'.\r\nIt really creates
    a look of dimension in the negative space.\r\nIn places such as the lowercase
    q and p. the curve at the end seems a bit forced.\r\nObviously there will be difficulties
    in that area because your dealing with a curve that needs to flow into another.
    That styling cue works well with all straight lines but all curved lines seem
    to have the same fault. \r\n\r\nAgain, great work, i'm so impressed."
  created: '2010-07-18 19:41:01'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks a lot. What you say about the curved lines is absolutely right, but
    I'm afraid there's just no way around it. Offcoarse I'll give it a go, but I've
    had headaches over this many times before.
  created: '2010-07-18 19:59:51'
- author:
    name: avanyashin
    picture: 118436
  body: "Jasper,\r\n\r\nNice to see you here on typophile,\r\nIt is great to see your
    skills excell.\r\n\r\nThe bold version is more consistent in proportions, I would
    suggest\r\nyou to compare these weights. One way of doing this is to\r\npaste
    the bold outlines as a mask to the regular font.\r\nYou will see, that /j/ needs
    to be shortened in the descender, \r\nloop of /g/ gets too narrow in regular,
    bold is ok.\r\nI would also extend the /z/ (top to the right and bottom to the
    left.)\r\n\r\nAlexei.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-18 22:08:07'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Hey Alexei,\r\n\r\nWhen I saw florentina is was almost gonna mail you that
    somebody had stolen your typeface. why did you change the name?\r\n\r\nI'll have
    a look at the j, g. I'm gonna be stubborn about the z and keep it this way. I
    did actually use the bold as a mask for the regular, but If I did it according
    to the mask the regular became to condensed. Because it doens't line up with the
    mask neatly I might have missed a few things. thanks again.\r\n\r\nJasper"
  created: '2010-07-19 08:52:22'
- author:
    name: avanyashin
    picture: 118436
  body: "Florentina is just a 'working' name.\r\n\r\nBTW, I have published the promo
    [[http://typoholic.ru/Type&Typography/2009-10/amperisk/Type&Typography.html|Amperisk]]
    typeface."
  created: '2010-07-19 09:32:21'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "This is really nice. I only have a few comments (take these all with a grain
    of salt -- they're purely my opinion):\r\n\r\n\u2022 The curve at the bottom of
    the bowl of the \"d\" is a lot sharper than other letters. Maybe see what it looks
    like if it's more like the \"b\"\r\n\r\n\u2022 the hook on the bottom of the \"j\"
    might be a little long (i.e. too far to the left). This seems more of an issue
    on the lightest weight.\r\n\r\n\u2022\_the way the righthand stroke on the \"y\"
    gets thinner at the top seems out of place\r\n\r\n\u2022 the right half of the
    \"m\" seems narrower than the left. This could just be an optical illusion, but
    even so, you might need to widen that half to make it look more balanced.\r\n\r\nYou
    might be better off really perfecting one weight before moving on to the others.
    It's very tempting to do (I've done it myself), but it can create a lot of extra
    work, and all the changes can be hard to keep track of.\r\n\r\n\r\nnice job!"
  created: '2010-07-20 04:10:49'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks jonathan\r\n\r\nThe curve in the d is indeed sharper than other letters,
    but I don't cinsider it TO sharp. It can certainly not be like the d because that
    way the gap between the bottom of the bowl and the stem would become to small.
    Thanks for telling me this though. Maybe I should have another look at it.\r\n\r\nI
    already changed the j, but it seems a bit useless to upload a new picture for
    one thing.\r\n\r\nYou're probably right about the y, so I'll have to find another
    way of getting the right colour. There has to be a contrast within that stroke.
    Any suggestions?\r\n\r\nThe right half of the m is indeed smaller. I thought the
    differnece was to small to make a difference, but while working on Expletus Serif
    I realized it does make a difference. In the w the left part is clearly narrower,
    but the gap creates whitespace, although I'm not sure if that's enough. I think
    I'll move the left and right part in the w apart and make the stroke that 'creates'
    the gap longer.\r\n\r\nThanks for your clear and positive help.\r\n\r\nJasper"
  created: '2010-07-20 10:30:38'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Jasper, did you see there is a recent release with a similar approach?\r\nIt's
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/typedepot/oxo/|Oxo, from TypeDepot]]. They included
    very interesting variations as College, Outline and Deco <em>weights</em>."
  created: '2010-08-02 11:56:26'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes I have noticed, but I wouldn't call it similar. Oxo, is much more computer
    based and has a totally different feel to it. Just to make this clear. My typeface
    was not inspired by oxo at all. Instead is was inspired on a single x in one of
    the various Sanex logos.
  created: '2010-08-13 13:04:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I uploaded a pdf with a text sample, some minor changes and the bold and regular
    capitals. I'm not very pleased with the regular capitals yet. Any comments are
    welcome!
  created: '2010-08-20 17:03:13'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: The bold and semi-bold are not included in the pdf, because I decided it's
    best to get the regular right first. In case you hadn't noticed. The descenders
    are longer than the ascenders. This is because the all glyphs with ascenders look
    better and work better with caps now, but I can't vertically compress the g anymore,
    so the descender had to stay the same. Does it look weird to any of you?
  created: '2010-10-05 18:43:44'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Looking very good! The font is very interesting in larger sizes, but the
    breaks seem to basically dissolve at text sizes. I think your upper- and lowercase
    S need some work - letters like a, p, q, and so on are very smooth, in a way reminiscent
    of Myriad, but the S's seem to have slightly harsher curves, with proportions
    a little closer to FF Meta. The line also doesn't appear quite consistent (the
    spine needs to be a bit thicker....). I still think the r doesn't quite match
    with the font. It just sticks out. Maybe if you made it join the stem lower still,
    that would help. This would also help it to appear a little more even in text.\r\n\r\nThe
    breaks in you letters are also a bit inconsistent in that, while some of the letters
    break in some places, and other letters break in other places, most seem to only
    have one break. The m sticks out a bit because of the two breaks - what would
    it look like if the middle join smoothly? The lowercase w has a break, but the
    uppercase W doesn't? The line thickness of the W needs work too I think...\r\n\r\nThe
    lining numeral 2 is also needs need some work I think....\r\n\r\nKeep up the good
    work! "
  created: '2010-10-06 01:05:46'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"The font is very interesting in larger sizes, but the breaks seem to basically
    dissolve at text sizes.\" True. It's a display face, but it can be used as a text-face,
    though it's not optimilazied for that. \"I think your upper- and lowercase S need
    some work - letters like a, p, q, and so on are very smooth, in a way reminiscent
    of Myriad, but the S's seem to have slightly harsher curves, with proportions
    a little closer to FF Meta.\" I hadn't noticed that. I'll see what I can do about
    it. \"I still think the r doesn't quite match with the font. It just sticks out.
    Maybe if you made it join the stem lower still, that would help. This would also
    help it to appear a little more even in text.\" Working on it. \"The breaks in
    you letters are also a bit inconsistent in that, while some of the letters break
    in some places, and other letters break in other places, most seem to only have
    one break.\" True, but for every glyph I have carefully considered where to put
    the gaps for a very long time. It might not be very 'logical', but the gaps never
    seem out of place to me. \"The m sticks out a bit because of the two breaks -
    what would it look like if the middle join smoothly?\" I've tried that. Horrible.
    \"The lowercase w has a break, but the uppercase W doesn't?\" The W doesn't because
    it looks a bit out of place compared to the M, I'll have another look at it though.
    It used to be with a gap in a very early stage. \"The line thickness of the W
    needs work too I think...\" That could well be. I think I need a short break from
    the caps, to get my mind back to blank. \"The lining numeral 2 is also needs need
    some work I think....\" True.\r\n\r\nThanks your help!"
  created: '2010-10-06 15:30:18'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I assumed your font must be at least intended for text somewhat, because of
    the large blocks of text in your PDF>
  created: '2010-10-06 17:07:15'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Well, to be intirely honest, expletus was not intended for something untill
    half a year ago. When I started the first designs (which are absolutely horrible),
    I thought that the concept of the gap itself would be enough to make it a bestseller.
    I was 10 years old. As I grew older and more experienced I learned that there
    was still A LOT to learn for me and perfection doesn't exist. It wasn't untill
    half a year ago that I took my time to think about what it's actually supposed
    to be used for. I decided it was mainly for print, but, like most display typefaces,
    could also be used at large (24+) sizes in websites or other screen usage. It
    also wasn't untill then, that I decided to view expletus as a project to learn
    from, instead of a rush for gold. It seemed important to me, to understand what
    happens to a design when you print it at a smaller size. To make expletus an even
    bigger challenge, I decided to make it reasonably legible at smaller sizes (9+)
    though not a real text face. "I assumed your font must be at least intended for
    text somewhat, because of the large blocks of text in your PDF>" Yes, you could
    say that it was somewhat, not intirely, intended for text.
  created: '2010-10-06 20:20:51'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I uploaded an updated pdf with: \r\nthe new r, which is thinner at the point
    where it meets the stem.\r\nnew S and s which have smoother curves.\r\nlining
    + oldstyle 2\r\nall cut-off strokes (e.g in c, e, a, s) have been made 2 (pnts?)
    thinner for an optically better result.\r\n\r\nIt's not much, but I thought I'd
    upload it anyway."
  created: '2010-10-07 20:08:52'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Most of this is an improvement. The S and s are better in terms of weight
    and where that weight is, but are more wobbly. I'm not sure how I could explain
    this, except by editing the original glyph and showing you where the points should
    go. You're close, though.\r\n\r\nAlso, in the type I believe you refer to the
    measurement as (correct me if I'm wrong) <strong>units</strong>, or em units (u?).
    I always have seen and used pt as an abbreviation for points, and p is an abbreviation
    for picas."
  created: '2010-10-08 04:04:11'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Nice update. Perhaps the comma should take on a different for  - it doesn't
    quite fit.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2010-10-10 16:54:31'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yo're probably right. Any suggestions are welcome!
  created: '2010-10-10 17:13:20'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Jasper, great work!\r\nI notice from your PDF that the width of some glyphs
    are off. For example, compared to o, a, h, k, K, m, n, u and w are too wide. s
    leans to the left. Why not make x more like k? And I think y could be more in
    style with the other glyphs. Furthermore, the upper bowl on S isn't really flowing,
    G feels a little narrow and T, V, W and Z could be more in style. You've designed
    1 with an apex, I'd consider keep the top flat, like you've done with 4. 7 seems
    a little off too, perhaps keep the leg straight, or at least less curvy?"
  created: '2010-10-14 10:08:25'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks Jean Paul, that's a lot of usefull things. I'll have another look
    at the what you said soon. There are some things I don't really get though.\r\n<em>For
    example, compared to o, a, h, k, K, m, n, u and w are too wide.</em> What should
    be compared to what, or are all of them too wide in your opinion?\r\n<em>Why not
    make x more like k?</em> I really don't see what you mean with this.\r\n\r\nIf
    you can clarify this a bit, that would be very helpfull. Thanks a lot for your
    comment and the email about the workshops.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 14:46:29'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'the k has a sharper ''interruption'' than the x, because the angle at which
    it meets the stem is sharper. I''ll have another look at it though. '
  created: '2010-10-14 18:00:53'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "It was a bit of a cryptogram, sorry ;-) What I meant was that a, h, k, K,
    m, n, u and w are too wide compared to o.\r\nI think the white/rounded edge/interruption
    in k should be more like in x; it somehow doesn't feel right. Perhaps it's not
    k but the x that needs rethinking..."
  created: '2010-10-14 18:04:17'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Since you've already started designing a bold weight, why not post it here
    too? It might help you define character shapes better.
  created: '2010-10-14 18:06:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I keep thinking you should ditch the stencil cuts for now and just get the
    shapes right first. When they work you could go back and try your shapes in some
    real life cardboard stencils. That\u2019ll probably reveal some trouble spots."
  created: '2010-10-14 18:07:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "\u201CIt might not be very 'logical', but the gaps never seem out of place
    to me.\u201D You\u2019re here to learn right?"
  created: '2010-10-14 18:11:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '@JP: Since I made the bold weight, I''ve changed a lot of things in the regular.
    I could change the bold accordingly, but I think it''s best to get the regular
    right first.'
  created: '2010-10-14 20:12:59'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"I keep thinking you should ditch the stencil cuts for now and just get
    the shapes right first. When they work you could go back and try your shapes in
    some real life cardboard stencils. That\u2019ll probably reveal some trouble spots.\"
    There's no point in trying the shapes in cardboard, because it's not a stencil,
    it's semi-stencil. The gaps are just there to create a sense of openness. The
    gaps cause a lot of trouble in curves, so if I try to implement them into a curve
    that was made without the gap, I'll probably end up with the same thing as I have
    now. The gaps also change the whitespace in some characters, so I really do think
    it's best to include them from the start in the design process.\r\n\r\n\"You\u2019re
    here to learn right?\" True. I still reconsider some (possible) gaps, such as
    in the W, k, K, r and y."
  created: '2010-10-14 20:22:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Semi stencil? It looks like a stencil face designed by someone who never
    used a stencil :) Forgive me for not considering your age. '
  created: '2010-10-14 21:29:59'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I don't want you to consider my age. A typical stencil has the gaps at different
    places. I think that with the computer age, stencil's are used less and less often,
    so it's not so much about the function of a stencil-typeface, but more about the
    way it looks.
  created: '2010-10-15 17:38:28'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: ">> A typical stencil has the gaps at different places. I think that with
    the computer age, stencil's are used less and less often, so it's not so much
    about the function of a stencil-typeface, but more about the way it looks.\r\n\r\nI
    think what Frode means is, for you to make a stencil (or semi-stencil) typeface
    properly, you should understand the nature of type for stencils anyway, how they
    work, and where the most optimal places for breaks are to make them sturdy enough.
    It's easy enough to think that the breaks are in the best places, but a much better
    informed typeface can be created which will end up looking better, because it's
    creator knows what works.\r\n\r\nAs you say, it's not about the function of a
    stencil typeface, but how it looks. What does a stencil typeface look like but
    a stencil?"
  created: '2010-10-15 20:06:54'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '"What does a stencil typeface look like but a stencil?" That''s my point.
    Expletus isn''t a stencil typeface. I call it a semi-stencil, but the gaps have
    nothing to do with stencils. I don''t think the breaks are in the best places,
    but I have considered them all very carefully. This doesn''t mean I won''t add
    or delete any gaps. It just means it''s not very likely that I''ll do so, but
    I will still consider it.'
  created: '2010-10-15 20:31:41'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'Above is an update including changes in: KCGSXYacfghkmnstvwxyz7.'
  created: '2010-10-16 11:43:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I know you\u2019ve carefully considered the notches, but they don\u2019t
    appear to follow any logic or system. \r\n\r\nAs for your one story g, I think
    you could lift the bowl slightly to compensate for the white space above the descender."
  created: '2010-10-16 13:00:38'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"I know you\u2019ve carefully considered the notches, but they don\u2019t
    appear to follow any logic or system. \" They do. The notches are placed at places
    where two strokes cross and one of the strokes continues in both directions past
    the gap. In the n the stem continues in two directions past the place of the notch.
    In the v, it would only continue in one direction, so there is no gap there.\r\n\r\nThe
    'e' has only one possible place for a notch, the x has two. To create more unity
    I limited it to one notch per glyph. I had to make an exception to this in the
    m. If I follow the rule in the y, it should have a gap. I think I'll make the
    y without a gap an alternate. Here's a pict of the y with a gap. Any suggestions?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ypict_6709.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-16 13:50:05'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: The one story g is already changed, but I forgot to change it in the pdf.
  created: '2010-10-16 13:52:38'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Two things Japser:\r\n<ol><li>It seems that all capitals are too thin compared
    to lowercase, or is it just me?</li>\r\n<li>In your last uploaded picture, l seems
    too fat. Come to think of it, in p for example, the downstroke seems fatter than
    the bowl.</li></ol>\r\n\r\nAs far as comments on \"semi stencil\" go, that's just
    semantics. Don't bother.\r\n\r\nAnd about \"logic\": I always tried to design
    type as logically and systematically as possible. But I learned that that is just
    a good start and that the design needs much more work after that. Study Myriad
    for instance and you'll see that there are lots of minor differences or indiscrepancies
    even between characters which don't follow rules of any system but still make
    a great font."
  created: '2010-10-17 15:20:09'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "1. Yes. That could well be. In the pdf, when taking a few steps back, the
    caps do indeed look lighter to me, but I wonder if that's really a bad thing.
    If I make them darker, do you think it should be just the stems or also the horizontal
    strokes?\r\n2. Now that you say so, I have to agree. Maybe this is only in expletus,
    but I find it very hard to get consistent stroke thickness."
  created: '2010-10-17 20:24:09'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Caps are usually fatter, but only fractional. This applies to all strokes
    and curves, horizontal, vertical and diagonal. It has to do with even colour.
    Compare capital and lowercase i and o in another font. To start, make all vertical
    strokes the same thickness, then adjust to create a more even colour if needed.\r\nI'd
    try making all vertical strokes just a bit thinner so optically they have the
    same thickness as the bowls."
  created: '2010-10-18 08:21:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'Thanks. I''ve already changed all vertical strokes in both caps and lowercase,
    but i guess it still needs some fine tuning. It does make quite a big difference
    already. I currently can''t reach my documents, but i''ll upload an update thursday. '
  created: '2010-10-18 18:18:27'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: "I will qualify my observations by saying that I am not very experienced with
    designing typefaces as the lovely folks who already gave suggestions.  I hope
    it is helpful anyway!\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a couple different concepts in
    terms of how the breaks read:\r\n\r\n- Shadow/depth like A, X, w, x.  I really
    like the dimensional quality of the cut.\r\n- Hand written stroke feel like B,
    D, P, a, b, d.  Maybe like overgrown ink traps.  The stroke is sort of trailing
    off to a taper.\r\n\r\nI think the difference has a lot to do with how the curved/tapered
    end of the cut off stroke relates to the straight piece it is approaching.  I
    personally love the ones that give a 3D effect, and miss it in the rest.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps!\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 21:28:10'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I think I share your opinion on this. Expletus started from a single x, in
    which the curved end follows the straight piece it's aproaching. The still is
    to me, the best representative of expletus' style, but I don't think the other
    glyphs have a different style. A good designer might argue, that every gkyph should
    have exactly the same style, but I think this is simply not possible, due to legebility
    issues and construction. Although I still believe in the concept of expletus,
    your comment is not useless. I have already approached the notches in a more individual
    way than when I started expletus, but I should probably do this even more. When
    I'm back home, I'll have a closer look at how the curved ends relate to the stroke
    they're approaching. Thanks for your help.
  created: '2010-10-18 21:53:59'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Here's an update with improved stem widths in both Caps and lowercase and
    overall thicker caps. Also the overshoot in the caps is increased and the shape
    of FEGPR is improved. I hope this is another step towards a good typeface. Do
    you think it's time to start on the bold?
  created: '2010-10-21 21:39:31'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's my first draft for the bold. It definitely needs a lot more work,
    so any feedback is very welcome.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletus-sans-bold_5267.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-23 19:45:01'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: The bold looks good. Need to work on that S, the line in the mid line should
    probably be thicker.
  created: '2010-10-24 18:53:33'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'I''m glad you like it. I''ve already made quite a lot small changes, so I''ll
    upload another update soon. '
  created: '2010-10-24 19:09:21'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I updated the bold and it also includes caps now. I uploaded it in a pdf,
    so I suggest you have a look at it. Hope you like it!
  created: '2010-10-31 19:49:55'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's the final Character Set for Expletus Sans Basic -  regular \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76721#comment-442377"
  created: '2010-12-04 19:25:30'
date: '2010-07-18 18:51:29'
files:
- filename: expletus-sans-pdf4.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/expletus-sans-pdf4.pdf
- filename: expletus-sans-pdf5-bold.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/expletus-sans-pdf5-bold.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Expletus (update: pdf now includes bold caps and lowercase)'

---
