---
author:
  name: James Deux
body: "Wanted to share this with all:\r\n\r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/5590572/windows-phone-7-gallery//gallery/12\r\n\r\nShots
  of the new Windows Phone 7 in action\u2014with its UI up and running. It appears
  that the type and copy will be the UI's principle element. I do not know the typeface
  but it's crisp and warm. ( EDIT: Type appears to be Segoe UI <a \"href=http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/font.aspx?FMID=1792\">here.</a>\r\n\r\nGizmodo's
  thoughts on the interface:\r\n\r\n<cite> \"The Interface\r\nThe phrase \"authentically
  digital\" makes me want to barf rainbow pixels, but Microsoft's description of the
  Windows Phone 7 interface is truth: It doesn't try to feel like anything but a flat,
  digital interface. There is no attempt to depict three dimensionality or any kind
  of real-world mimesis. No gradients, shadows, gloss or shading. Everything is crisp
  and flat. Everything pops, bright primary colors and white text on a black landscape.
  Touch a tile on the main screen, and the interface flies away like exploding puzzle
  pieces, revealing the app you wanted to see. Oversized text is the order of the
  day. (Yes, it still runs off the screen in lots of place.) It feels gloriously modern.
  I love it. I wonder how gracefully it'll age.\" <cite>\r\n\r\nI'd have to agree.
  A complete breath of fresh air in the age of Web 2.0 iconography. "
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It feels a bit 'brochurish' and that while the UI is pretty, it might end
    up getting in the way. BUT...I'll give MS credit for really trying something new.
    And it's hard to say if I'll like it until we can touch it, but it's definitely
    a new concept for a touch interface.  \r\n\r\nHopefully they'll actually release
    it some day. "
  created: '2010-07-19 15:51:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There is no attempt to depict three dimensionality or any kind of real-world
    mimesis. </em>\r\n\r\nSurely that's the opposite of \"authentically digital\"?\r\nDigital,
    except in its most primitive bitmapped expression, is by nature mimetic.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the font appears to be that well-known airport signage face designed in 1968.\r\nCombine
    that with a minimalist layout and all-lower-case look, and what you have is a
    retro style, \"mid-century modern\"."
  created: '2010-07-19 16:19:34'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "The fact that this phone cuts off text at its margins has been lampooned
    elsewhere.\r\n\r\nWhy is it being tolerated, even in this forum?\r\n\r\nI know
    Simon reads everything here and I strongly suspect he dies a little inside when
    work of this calibre sees the light of day, but isn\u2019t the idea of running
    text off the edge of a viewport so clumsy and ass-backwards it could only come
    from a zero-taste, antitypographic culture and platform like Microsoft and Windows?\r\n\r\nNo,
    really \u2013\_I mean that."
  created: '2010-07-19 21:13:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I know Simon reads everything here \r\n\r\nNo I don't. :-)"
  created: '2010-07-19 21:24:06'
- author:
    name: James Deux
  body: "<cite>And the font appears to be that well-known airport signage face designed
    in 1968.</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay I laughed. But just a bit, though. "
  created: '2010-07-20 01:04:01'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "<em>Why is it being tolerated, even in this forum?</em>\r\n\r\nThe software
    being shown here is nowhere NEAR release date, so I'm sure they'll fix a lot of
    these things.\r\n\r\nI currently own a Zune HD and its layout and colors are wonderful,
    definitely prefer it over the iOS's."
  created: '2010-07-20 09:08:00'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "From my reading, it isn\u2019t beta software and no, I don\u2019t think they\u2019re
    going to fix it. They\u2019ll be too visually unsophisticated (\u201Cstupid\u201D\_or
    \u201Cautistic\u201D\_are other words that could be used) to notice, let alone
    bother."
  created: '2010-07-20 18:56:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In identifying the fact that practically no one (on Typophile or elsewhere)
    is calling out what they consider bad typography on devices, I think Joe is onto
    something. Stewf\u2019s iPad review and a few of Joe\u2019s blogs posts being
    the notable exceptions. \r\n\r\nI\u2019ve pointed the team to this thread. To
    their credit I think they\u2019re trying to do something that no one has ever
    tried before in the smartphone space - building a device UI that relies primarily
    on typography - without relying on bevels, boxes, fake 3D, Photoshop lens-flares
    and brushed metal bitmaps used in other devices. Also worth remembering that this
    is a beta of a v.1 product. \r\n\r\nA bigger question is where are the apps, games
    and devices that showcase flawless typography. Is anyone making them? I don\u2019t
    own an iPad, Kindle, Sony Reader, iPhone, Android phone, etc., actually I don\u2019t
    own any devices (with the exception of a $20 Nokia phone that has one app \u2013
    the \u201Cphone call\u201D app). But I for one would be first in line for a typographically
    savvy device. \r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 20:33:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think minimalism is somehow more \"flawlessly\" typographic than
    layout styles which use devices such as boxes, rules, and drop shadows. \r\n\r\nWhen
    you run text over a disruptive background (e.g. a \"screensaver\" pattern), then
    a drop shadow is also typographic: the offset, blur, and density have to be gauged
    to the type style, colour, and background, for optimum readability. Setting these
    values is a matter of typographic taste and discrimination, is it not?\r\n\r\nThe
    page on the Phone 7 that shows type \"surprinting\" a photo could do with some
    drop shadows.\r\n\r\nIf you have a lot of hierarchical text categories in a layout,
    boxes and rules are a good way to demarcate information.\r\nBy the same token,
    going the minimalist route does require \"white\" space.\r\n\r\nAnd in the Phone
    7 GUI, that space seems to be latent, scrollably-accessible, in a way that I always
    associate with early Flash-enabled web pages.\r\n\r\nSo the question is: how problematic
    is latent space? \r\nHave we become used to seeing the picture cropped, and scrolling
    across it -- especially in map apps -- to the extent that a <em>word</em> which
    appears cropped and illegible when a page opens, is acceptable? Especially if
    it is the title of a frequently-visited page. Is becoming familiar with this partial
    word any different than becoming familiar with an icon -- learning its meaning?
    If you are going to a page via a link, don't you already know its title?\r\n\r\nIt's
    a premise of Donald Norman, the philosopher behind the Mac GUI, that one learns
    by doing, that an interactive medium is not just information that sits there revealing
    all without being prodded.\r\n\r\nSo good luck to those trying to out-Mac the
    iPhone with a minimalist GUI.\r\n\r\nAnd to those who would judge it by looking
    at static photos, that's a bit premature, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nSi,
    CS4 replaced eye-candy (mostly) by text:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Adobe_CS4_mini_icon_set_by_Bobbyperux_3520.jpg]\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Writing/DeeperIn.pdf\">My take</a> on GUI evolution
    (on the Mac).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-20 21:32:56'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "<em>From my reading, it isn\u2019t beta software and no, I don\u2019t think
    they\u2019re going to fix it.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is definitely beta (edit: maybe not
    \"beta\" but certainly not ready to be released) software. But, now that I look
    at the pictures, the cutoff is fine. You need to see video (<a href=\"http://www.cnet.com/8301-17918_1-20010780-85.html?tag=TOCmoreStories.0\"
    target=\"_blank\">see here</a>) of how it works. It's zoomed out so you can see
    multiple lines of text, without cutoff, then when you go into a specific category,
    as you swipe left and right, there's a parallax effect of the type/content/background,
    therefore the rest of the type comes into view."
  created: '2010-07-21 06:09:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii> To their credit I think they\u2019re trying to do something that no
    one has ever tried before in the smartphone space - building a device UI that
    relies primarily on typography - without relying on bevels, boxes, fake 3D, [...].\r\n\r\nI'm
    still laughing. After nearly 20 years of using phone devices who's UI's rely exclusively
    on typography, I'm wondering who would want that. But Wow! look how big the fonts
    are and thin sans fonts at that! What a truly original design. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-21 14:02:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"From my reading, it isn\u2019t beta software\"\r\n\r\nIt's a MS product.
    Of course it's beta. \r\n\r\nI think it's also hard to fully judge it based on
    static photos. It's a motion based interface. "
  created: '2010-07-21 15:25:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What a truly original design. \r\n\r\nI agree. I spend time on the gadget
    blogs every single day, and not just to hunt down devices using unlicensed versions
    of our fonts, and I have to agree with you and the bloggers, it's a truly original
    design - although maybe not everyone's cup of tea.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 16:39:09'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "<em>I'm still laughing. After nearly 20 years of using phone devices who's
    UI's rely exclusively on typography, I'm wondering who would want that.</em>\r\n\r\nlol
    uh... I wouldn't really call this (image attached) \"typography.\" There's a difference
    between straight \"text\" and \"typography.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/old_cellphone2_5567.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-21 19:40:41'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: "At the very least, isn't this a step in the right direction? A focus on typography
    & a nearly medium-specific aesthetic?\r\n\r\nSeems a lot more authentic than Apple's
    gloss & beveled art style... unless you believe that every style can be native
    to the computer."
  created: '2010-07-21 21:29:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"At the very least, isn't this a step in the right direction?\"\r\n\r\nOnly
    if one assumes that only one direction is correct.\r\n\r\nThe \"gloss & beveled
    art style\" isn't just about 'looking cool' but has deep foundations in human
    factor/UX design. For instance, when a button is beveled and has a shadow one
    sees that as being 3 dimensional which offers an affordance to the user that it
    is a clickable object. This can be an important factor for general usability of
    the device.\r\n\r\nBut that's not to say it's the only correct direction. The
    flat type-centric UI of Win7 mobile may work nicely as well. We'll have to wait
    and see. "
  created: '2010-07-21 21:53:45'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "<em>For instance, when a button is beveled and has a shadow one sees that
    as being 3 dimensional which offers an affordance to the user that it is a clickable
    object.</em>\r\n\r\nThe key here is that most users know what's clickable and
    what isn't, these days.\r\n\r\nI've used the Zune HD (review here http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZlR3vA7D3rk)
    and I like the interface a lot. As others have mentioned, some of the type gets
    cut off, but in using it, it doesn't really bother me. As it's a UI and not a
    typographic poster, I don't think every instance of type needs to be \"perfect.\""
  created: '2010-07-22 08:03:35'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Shiny buttons will go in an out of style every 10 years for at least another
    century.
  created: '2010-07-22 14:34:42'
- author:
    name: bstrom
    picture: 118773
  body: "<em>Shiny buttons will go in an out of style every 10 years for at least
    another century.</em>\r\n\r\nThats closer to what I was <em>trying</em> to get
    at. I see I must choose my words very carefully here :)"
  created: '2010-07-22 15:29:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I hate the buttons on appliances &c. that don't have a neat \"click\".\r\nIn
    fact, I would prefer if most appliances and tools just had one large on/off switch,
    or a turnable knob, rather than all this programmable BS.\r\nI have an electric
    space heater that I turn on when the room gets a bit cold, and off when it's warmed
    up, but I have to press several buttons in the correct sequence to get it to turn
    on.\r\nI guess you know where I'm coming from:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/retrophone_handset_4995.jpg]\r\n(Yeah,
    it's functional.)\r\nhttp://www.thinkgeek.com/interests/retro/7830/"
  created: '2010-07-22 16:06:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hey Nick, speaking of typography on mobile phones...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palmgm_5416.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-22 16:30:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The key here is that most users know what's clickable and what isn't, these
    days.\"\r\n\r\nThat'd be nice but in user testing I've seen/been a part of, that's
    not always true, unfortunately. \r\n\r\nBottom line, though, we can only judge
    visual aesthetics of the UI at this point. I think it's unfair to claim it's successful
    or a failure prior to actually being able to touch the thing and understand the
    total user interface and experience. "
  created: '2010-07-22 17:17:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Shiny buttons will go in an out of style every 10 years for at least another
    century.\r\n\r\nI predict once holographic haptic multi-touch Kinect-driven augmented
    reality displays are commonplace they will make a comeback.  "
  created: '2010-07-22 17:34:45'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: We're probably a decade away from screens where objects can actually be shiny
    or not. Then we can have buttons which are flat colors but actually shiny. Typophile
    threads about shiny buttons will be really boring.
  created: '2010-07-23 02:20:12'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Windows Phone 7 is the heir to the Zune's typography. And if MS is smart
    they'll take the best UI elements from the Kin UI (may it rest in peace) and infuse
    them into Windows Phone 7.\r\n\r\nRegarding the earliest bitmap fonts on mobile
    devices were nearly all \"designed\" by engineers, which means they were designed
    for efficiency of space or efficiency of file size (speed), not efficiency of
    <a href=\"http://idlemode.com/2009/04/20/glance-scan-read-typography-for-mobile-user-interfaces/\">glancing,
    scanning, or reading</a>. \r\n\r\nThe best example is the lowercase g on some
    old devices (Nokia, Samsung) whose \"descender\" sits on the baseline, looking
    like a timid 9."
  created: '2010-07-23 11:00:00'
- author:
    name: vegfarandi
    picture: 117020
  body: "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiqgmAYrd3c\r\n\r\nThe general look and feel
    was designed for that video originally. This is Microsoft's future direction."
  created: '2010-07-23 12:14:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This is Microsoft's future direction\r\n\r\nYou mean computer graphics in
    every commercial, or the apple devices without apple logos? ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-23 12:39:56'
- author:
    name: staydecent
  body: "Joeclark and anyone else who thinks \"The fact that this phone cuts off text
    at its margins\" is somehow, without testing, an immediate mistake, or stupid
    decision, you are making an opinion with a very narrow vantage.\r\n\r\nIgnoring
    the fact that this discussion is about the joy of a typographic UI(who cares?),
    I think you should really ease up on the untested hate. The UI may be entirely
    usable, I mean, it is still entirely readable in screenshots.\r\n\r\nMy point
    being, aesthetics only matter to a point, and they only please a very small, niche,
    group of people. What actually matters is the usability. And, pretty can only
    get you so far.\r\n\r\nSo, if a word is cutoff, but is readable(1/3 of the last
    'e' being hidden doesn't create any mystery for me) then what is the problem?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    authentically digital, or whatever the words were, is so purely subjective, it's
    better if we all just leave that one alone. But I do think the one claiming digital,
    in its birth, was to imitate life is slightly mislead: Virtual is more of an adjective
    describing imitation."
  created: '2010-07-23 16:40:17'
- author:
    name: jakes
    picture: 116060
  body: The Zune HD which Window 7 phone is based off of is more visual pleasing than
    the iPhone/iPod...imho. It's more clean & sophisticated. I have no problem what
    so ever with the word being cutoff cause it's still very readable/recognizable
    as well as adding a nice design element to the UI.
  created: '2010-07-23 19:34:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... the one claiming digital, in its birth, was to imitate life is slightly
    mislead: Virtual is more of an adjective describing imitation.</em>\r\n\r\nI said
    that \"Digital, except in its most primitive bitmapped expression, is by nature
    mimetic.\"\r\nIn terms of visual appearance (as opposed to functionality), can
    you name a quality that is not mimetic, in, say, a typeface? \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nSuch
    things as dimensional buttons are not intended to be <em>trompe l'\u0153il</em>
    (i.e. virtual).\r\nAs Darrel (Aluminum) says, they \"offer an affordance\" to
    the user that they are clickable objects. \r\nThe dimensionality is symbolic mimesis
    within graphic design, not virtual reality within a simulated environment.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 20:01:18'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "The amount of bashing from the Mac living - Windows hating community only
    shows how good has Windows done this interface, campioning great original type
    design instead of using old tired Helv\xE9tica to Lolo \"designerly\".\r\n\r\nSome
    text looks cut off on a photo still because it actually scrolls, come on people!\r\n\r\nSorry
    for the ortography, I'm in a clumsy iPhone keyboard."
  created: '2010-07-24 06:31:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm in a clumsy iPhone keyboard.\r\n\r\nWell climb out of the escape key.;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-24 11:56:30'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "While I don\u2019t think that cut-off words are bad per se (a little retro
    as far as aesthetics go, maybe), surely this style would make localisation in
    languages which typically present word longer than their English equivalents (I\u2019m
    thinking German and Italian) much worse than already is."
  created: '2010-07-24 12:10:47'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "In that case, I assume they would reduce the font size.\r\n\r\n<em>The amount
    of bashing from the Mac living - Windows hating community only shows how good
    has Windows done this interface, campioning great original type design instead
    of using old tired Helv\xE9tica to Lolo \"designerly\".</em>\r\n\r\nI think the
    brilliance and success of Win7 also did the same."
  created: '2010-07-24 13:20:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>c[h]ampioning great original type design</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect me if I'm
    wrong, but this \"original type design\" is the same as that used to advertise
    the iPhone:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iPhone_6538.png]\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wint_5173.png]"
  created: '2010-07-24 13:32:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Steven Acres: <cite>In that case, I assume they would reduce the font size.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    it seems to you an optimal solution, in general and for interface elements in
    particular?"
  created: '2010-07-24 14:10:37'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Sorry, kids: It isn\u2019t OK to truncate text. Especially when, as is plainly
    evident here, visually unsophisticated, or stupid, or autistic Microsoft \u201Cengineers\u201D\_merely
    let it happen."
  created: '2010-07-24 15:27:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Text isnt truncated, it is scrolling.\r\n\r\nThe font used is Segoe UI, a
    later development from the original\r\nSegoe font licensed from Agfa Monotype
    by Microsoft."
  created: '2010-07-24 16:54:15'
- author:
    name: staydecent
  body: "Joeclark, that's what we call nonconstructive criticism.\r\n\r\nUnsophisticated,
    in the manner that the words are still readable? are understood? or at one point
    in an active UI, were fully readable? Or how about the fact that the cutoff demonstrates
    the sort of, massive plane interface that MS has created.\r\n\r\nIt gives a sort
    of feeling of exploration, knowing there is this big, connected plane of information
    and media, and it slides in and out of the viewport.\r\n\r\nTruncated text has
    been used for many years in graphic design(sorry no example as I am lazy). Would
    it not be better suited to have truncated text in interactive design, where the
    truncated portion is not lost forever, as apposed to printed?\r\n\r\nNick Shinn:\r\n\r\nDo
    you think there is a point were digital is so understood, or accepted, or a part
    of ones life that it doesn't need to mimic to offer understandable(predictable)
    usability, but starts developing it's own traits and patterns?\r\n\r\nBroadening
    the metaphor(away from just type), screen size, is almost a unique feature of
    the digital world. And even the swipe action(where it produces the same, expected
    result as an iPhone does). But I suppose that is just functional. And you may
    have been talking purely on the design.\r\n\r\nWhat about underlined text? It
    hints at the same reaction that of a button, but does not mimic life."
  created: '2010-07-24 17:08:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you think there is a point w[h]ere digital is so understood, or accepted,
    or a part of ones life that it doesn't need to mimic to offer understandable(predictable)
    usability, but starts developing it's own traits and patterns?</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of appearance, rather than behaviour, digital has ABSOLUTELY NO original
    visual qualities, so that point will never occur. Bytes are like that.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"swipe\" action (formerly known as \"scrolling\" isn't uniquely digital: before
    the invention of the codex (book), documents were in scroll format. In movies,
    what are pan and zoom if not truncations exposed? In the 19th century, before
    even the invention of photography, there were scrolling panoramas: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moving_panorama\r\n\r\nIn
    music, it is possible to digitally engineer sounds that no analog instrument could
    produce, but that is not the case with static visual images.\r\n\r\nI once claimed
    that my Beaufort face, with its asymptotic pointed serifs, demonstrated a unique
    digital quality of super-sharpness, but was straightened out by Kent Lew, who
    argued that resolution is a function of output device, and that metal type was
    far sharper than digital-to-offset.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n(Blue) underlined text as
    hyperlink: no, it doesn't look like a button, but there is nothing especially
    \"digital\" about underlining a word. It is repurposing, in a similar manner to
    Ladislaw Sutnar's repurposing of  parentheses to indicate area code, or the use
    of @ for email addresses, or the > symbol in emails.\r\n\r\nSome RGB colors are
    quite unique, however.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-24 18:07:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: --
  created: '2010-07-24 19:03:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"The amount of bashing from the Mac living - Windows hating community\"\r\n\r\nHow
    does every thread about technology turn into a Mac hating thread?\r\n\r\n\"Joeclark,
    that's what we call nonconstructive criticism.\"\r\n\r\nAround here, we just call
    that 'joe clark'. "
  created: '2010-07-24 19:08:53'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\nZune original (the older models) featured this typographic
    styling (which was around before the iPhone). I don't think the originality comes
    from knocked out sans-serif (which has been around for quite a longer time than
    these electronic devices), but comes from the fact that it's the first (or best)
    example of a GUI based on this aesthetic. And it takes it a step further in making
    the type a much larger size than usual. The iPhone ads are knocked out sans, but
    the type isn't oversized at all. I think that's what everyone is referencing when
    they mention the \"originality.\""
  created: '2010-07-24 23:37:31'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/system_1_screenshot_5170.jpg]\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    current designers don't give it as much thought but just a decade ago, 3D buttons
    & windows were really cool. Pushing a button in and out of the screen is useful.
    But there was a wow factor attached to simulated 3D interfaces. Mid 1980's operating
    systems and devices weren't 3D because they couldn't be. On a Macintosh, there
    was no gray scale but 3D was indicated with a heavier lines on the bottom and
    right. There were hacks to make the Amiga Workbench interface look more 3D but
    it looked pretty lame because the desktop palette was limited.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Amiga_Workbench_1_3_large_6047.png]\r\n\r\nI
    ran a hack on my Amiga that would create drop shadows for desktop windows but
    the drawing was painfully slow. I'm not sure when the Mac went 3D, but Windows
    3.1 showed a little gloss. Buttons and windows had a little light and shade. Even
    though the colors were ugly, back then it looked pretty slick. Functionally, that
    was as 3D as an interface needs to get. You could tell what's clickable and how
    windows are overlapping. After Windows XP, the desktop was no longer restricted
    to the limited Windows default palette. Buttons had (ugly) shading, words had
    drop shadows and it made older operating systems look flat. Around the same time,
    the same thing was happening on the Mac with the transition from OS9 to OSX. Drop
    shadows, realistic textures, all designed to look 3D. While in XP, the effect
    was so poorly done that it looked unrealistic, in OSX, it looked very realistic.
    If you've never seen a computer before, you might think windows were suspended
    above the surface and buttons were shiny glass beads.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rhapsody_3759.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/win2000advserv_6155.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nIf
    you were to design a semi-flat interface like 0S9 in 2005, it would look old fashioned.
    The man of 2005 might think the interface wasn't flat on purpose . . . just incapable/cheap.
    A phone interface with a color screen in 2005 with flat buttons looked lower tech
    than a phone interface with shiny buttons. If you had millions of colors with
    work with, you could even make those buttons look like shiny plastic.\r\n\r\nThat's
    the state we're still in. If it's not glossy, it's low tech. The glossy interface
    used on the iPhone is trompe l'\u0153il. Look at the start screen in iOS4. There's
    a glass shelf on the bottom with shiny plastic buttons suspended on it. The background
    has raindrops which look 3D. Whether we believe it's really 3D or not is not the
    point. It's an attempt to fool the eye into thinking that a flat \"painting\"
    is three dimensional. The only reason they don't have stuff hanging into the \"picture
    frame\" like some of the more clever trompe l'\u0153il, is because they can't
    yet. If they could make the metal shelf in iOS4 pop right out of the screen, they
    probably would.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iphone_40_home_screen_4114.PNG]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fussli_5356.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-25 03:25:27'
date: '2010-07-19 15:11:09'
title: 'Windows Phone 7: Typography makes the interface'

---
