---
author:
  name: IanCrombie
  picture: 116047
body: "Hello fellow Typophiles\r\n\r\nBelow is an identity I created for a close friend
  and photographer. Inspired by the script identities of Leitz / Leica and other bygone
  camera manufacturers, I took the approach of combining a friendly script with mechanical
  germanic flair. As a photographer both relies on his personality and his technical
  skill to create images this dichotomy made sense to me. \r\n\r\nI was wondering
  what sort of feedback you guys had? I have already combed it over a few times fixing
  some quirks that I had - especially with the d and r. This is what i ended on -
  but i feel like you guys could definitely help me find the best solution. \r\n\r\nAlso
  shown is a 'logo' - to be used as a watermark on his photographs. I originally had
  the F within a circle as it related to a cameras lens, but settled upon this shape
  as it was far more proprietary and memorable and fit with the quirky rigidity of
  the logotype.\r\n\r\nThank You\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_3507.jpg]\r\n\r\nHigher
  Res Images are attached"
comments:
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I like this a lot. Great concept, great execution, great colors.\r\n\r\nA
    few points of critique:\r\n\r\n\u2022 The stem of the 'r' could be a bit taller,
    I think, as right now it gives the impression that the 'r' sits optically lower
    than the rest of the letters.\r\n\r\n\u2022 The arm of the 'r' might suffer from
    the problem discussed here: http://typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=17#pictloader
    and could do with similar tweaks\r\n\r\n\u2022 [minor point] The crossbar of the
    'F' seems like it's a triangle that is placed on top of the rectangular stem.
    Perhaps it could more organically come from the stem and mimic the shape of the
    top bar.\r\n\r\n\u2022 [minor point] The top bar of the 'F' seems a tad heavy.\r\n\r\nAll
    in all, great job.\r\n\r\n--\r\n<em>penn</em>"
  created: '2010-07-20 17:56:45'
- author:
    name: Jon Evenchen
    picture: 115064
  body: "Hey there Ian, this is great stuff, I love it!\r\n\r\nI'm not a pro by any
    means, but there are some things I would suggest tweaking...At larger sizes, I
    would make more of a connect between the top and bottom of the F, small sizes
    works great. And then the e between i and d is standing out to me a little, maybe
    tighten the spacing a little. It also seems way heavier on the left side, making
    it look like its leaning backward. Besides that I would tighten the spacing of
    the tagline, fitting it in between the first 'i' and the bottom of the last 'e'
    and maybe make it a notch bolder. What are you using there anyway? Knockout? Love
    the icon/watermark!\r\n\r\nGood work!"
  created: '2010-07-20 18:07:23'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "Thanks for the feedback!\r\n\r\nBelow are some of the suggested changes -
    wondering what you thought of the r's\r\n\r\nPenn\r\n\u2022 Fixed the stem of
    the 'r' - good eye!\r\n\u2022 The arm of the 'r' is still giving me a hard time
    - below are some ideas... thoughts?\r\n\u2022 Made the top of the 'F' a bit thinner
    - does it need more?\r\n\r\nJon\r\n\u2022 I agree with the relationship between
    the top of the F's stem and the F, especially if you look at the relationship
    between the crossbar of the f and the i.\r\n\u2022 Agree with the fitting of 'photography'
    below.\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks again guys, its getting there. Just needs a bit more
    polishing for sure!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler2_6131.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-20 21:26:35'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "I like the stem like in No. 2. I think it could be even higher, but that's
    probably my personal taste.\r\n\r\nAs for the arm, I'd cut it off with the same
    diagonal stroke as the stem (it's a broad nib pen, after all), but pull it up
    high enough. No. 3 is very close, but the round \"armpit\" doesn't really fit.
    Something like this (sorry, 60 seconds in GIMP)?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fiedler_r_6530.png]\r\n\r\nOh
    well, just my 2\xA2 ..."
  created: '2010-07-20 22:13:56'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "I actually liked the 'photography' line like you had it before. In these
    last few it would be very small if you had to scale down the logotype.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the new 'r's their arms seem to be drooping low and off to the right too much.
    I hope you don't mind, but I did a quick 'r' for you \u2014 maybe it'll spark
    some ideas. Of these new 'r's, number 3 is my favorite. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_6475.gif]"
  created: '2010-07-20 22:18:33'
- author:
    name: Jon Evenchen
    picture: 115064
  body: "Hey Ian, the relationship between the two elements(logo+tag) in your second
    post is not visually correct, penn is right, it will become too small to read
    if you need to scale it down. Have tighter spacing, then you can enlarge the tag,
    even make it bolder so that it will have a nice 'base'. Right now Fiedler is completely
    overpowering the tagline.\r\n\r\nYour first r is the best, in my humble opinion.
    Its the most expressive, unique and stylish. The r in skosch's and penn's post
    are the most suited in style for the kind of type you've created."
  created: '2010-07-21 00:19:06'
- author:
    name: Jon Evenchen
    picture: 115064
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_011_4997.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_0112_3577.jpg]\r\n\r\nSomething
    like that maybe."
  created: '2010-07-21 00:36:49'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "I love typophiles, you guys are great!\r\n\r\nskosch \r\nI liked direction
    2 as well and i tried mucking around with it to see if i could get the r to have
    the same idiosyncrasies as the capitol f - no luck. Plus the client preferred
    option 3 (he works with me so he came over a few times during the day to add his
    feedback.) I really appreciate your quick sketch and it helped with these new
    directions. Especially option 1 where I altered the angle of the line coming out
    of the 'e' a bit so as to get the bar of the 'r' high enough quick enough. I'm
    not sure i like the negative shape it made though.\r\n\r\nPenn\r\nThanks also
    for the sketch it informed my second iteration in this new study attached. \r\n\r\nJon\r\nI
    just saw your comments as I started writing this - I think ill explore more of
    the relationship between the logo and the tag as i experiment with this identity
    moving forward into business cards, stationary,  etc. \r\n\r\nAttached are the
    studies based off your feedback.  My favorite is number 2 - the strong diagonal
    of the e supports the bottom of the 'r' and the curve at the top is reflected
    in the curve of the bottom almost as if a broad nib pen were to make one fluid
    motion. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler3_3647.jpg]\r\n\r\nThoughts
    guys? Thanks so much again! Do you want me to keep posting as I move into business
    cards and such? (Thats next for me.) I'm super stoked to make those - part of
    the deal with this identity was that i'd make it as long as we get the cards printed
    at Studio on Fire. Letterpress all the way!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: IanCrombie
      picture: 116047
    body: I uploaded a high res version of this too!
    created: '2010-07-21 02:04:22'
  created: '2010-07-21 02:03:38'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: "Go with your gut on this one. Any of these most recent versions could work
    well. \r\n\r\nI'd still stick with the tracked out version of the 'photography'
    line. It's a nice clean respite from the strong logotype of the name. I wouldn't
    try to squeeze it together at all. The eye is drawn to where it needs to be and
    slowly falls to 'photography' when it feels ready.\r\n\r\nIf you think it needs
    it, I might also draw up the top of the bowl of the 'd' as well. Just a touch
    to optically compensate for the height of the right side of the 'e'. (Similar
    issue that the 'r' had.)\r\n\r\nPlease do post any further progress you have with
    this project. I'd love to see how you develop the identity and use the secondary
    logo watermark.\r\n\r\nI also like the way that you post lower res versions in
    the body of the post \u2014 makes it easier to track \u2014 then Higher res versions
    up above to examine closely. Just be sure to label them with a date or something
    so it's easy to know which high res attachments belong to which edits below.\r\n\r\nNice
    work so far.\r\n\r\n--\r\n<em>penn</em>"
  created: '2010-07-21 03:05:41'
- author:
    name: chr.s
  body: "If I may offer some thoughts on the type...\r\n\r\nAs penn says, I think
    any of the last few iterations are very close to being complete, although my eye
    tells me somewhere between examples 1 & 3. As well as raising the bowl of the
    'd' I have a small issue with the stem of the 'r' - it seems to be leaning forward
    a touch, and could <em>possibly</em> do with being ever-so-slightly tapered in
    order to compensate. I know it may disrupt the precise vertical nature of the
    other letters, but I think a barely detectable adjustment may help the overall
    sturdiness.\r\n\r\nOther than that, this is lovely work."
  created: '2010-07-21 13:30:59'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "Thanks so much for the feedback guys - this is where is netted out. \r\n\r\n\u2022
    Optically adjusted the top of the d \r\n\u2022 Sharped the corner of the 'r' and
    made the angle reflect that of the top bar of the 'F'\r\n\r\nI'm quite happy with
    this little guy. You might not hear from me for a week or so - but hopefully I'll
    upload some business card layouts then. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_Critique_Final_6515.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-21 20:15:31'
- author:
    name: L.
    picture: 117666
  body: Hope I am not too late. Really cool type for "Fiedler", nicely retro. Since
    no one seems to be bothered by it, I have to say that loosely tracked Helvetica
    is really ruining it. Why not something more Fifties? Eurostile, for instance.
    It's squared enough to match the logo. Or why not Trade Gothic? Sturdy and born
    in the late Forties. I attach a couple of examples. Good luck, anyway[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_1_5468.png]
  created: '2010-07-23 17:11:25'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Before I read the description and see you mentioning Leica, I got a very
    medieval feel from the logo. Fit for a knights tournaments photographer :) \r\n\r\nSeriously
    though, and for what it's worth, I don't think the very concept works. It has
    this stuck in the 60s look of an [[http://i26.tinypic.com/2qlwsad.jpg|old refrigerator]].
    The logo is beautifully executed, but the image it projects does not connect with
    current times, i.e. it looks outdated. Not everyone's a photographer, and not
    everyone has seen Leica lettering to make a connection.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-23 18:54:05'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "Luca \r\nTotally agree - I think the use of eurostile is actually quite a
    nice complement. I used Knockout as it takes visual ques from type before the
    time of helvetica - but after seeing your two mock ups I'm considering switching
    that up for sure. \r\n\r\nApankrat\r\nI appreciate your opinion, but next time
    i would recommend you add some constructive criticism to support your thoughts.
    I of course disagree with you, but can see how some people may mistake the letters
    thick broad nib strokes as being \"medieval\" - attached are some images of type
    found on vintage cameras to help illuminate the sort of lettering that inspired
    this logotype. \r\n\r\nMy client and myself believe that the majority of photographer
    brands rely heavily on camera/film cliches and/or boring sans serifs that lack
    distinction. So what's wrong with making something a little pastiche to be more
    memorable?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler_Inspiration_4592.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-27 21:26:22'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "I agree.\r\n\r\nJust because technology is getting better doesn't mean the
    typography has to move to a more \"contemporary\" aesthetic. I love the logotype
    here."
  created: '2010-07-27 22:58:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Add a third agreement to that. You don't have to be a photographer to be able
    to appreciate the type for what it is . . . a nice logotype. It doesn't harm the
    brand if a person doesn't make the connection to old camera companies.
  created: '2010-07-28 19:08:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Late to the party but wanted to just chime in with a "looks great" comment.
  created: '2010-07-28 19:11:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Second that.
  created: '2010-07-28 20:27:49'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "@IanCrombie - For me, a 30-something person, this particular typeface style
    is tied rather strongly to a specific time period from the early second half of
    the last century. From the lettering on my grandma's fridge to the labels on kitchen
    gadgets and cars from the era - I look at your logo and I see 1950s. That's the
    primary <em>subjective</em> vibe I get from the logo.\r\n\r\nThe constructive
    criticism part is that if you or your client care about the first impression the
    logo creates, then perhaps it looking like a 50 year old brand to some people
    is a point worth considering. Not saying my take on the logo is representative,
    nor am I saying that the logo is bad. I'm just pointing out that the interpretation
    of the logo might be ambiguous, and it may create some unintended associations
    and assumptions on viewer's part."
  created: '2010-07-29 22:51:40'
- author:
    name: SebastianK
    picture: 119798
  body: "<em>... I look at your logo and I see 1950s.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, say it does.
    Then is that a bad thing? To me \u2013 regardless of the fact that I'm just 20
    \u2013 the fridges, appliances <em>and</em> cameras from that time were and are
    a symbol of manufacturing quality. It's precisely because my grandma's fridge
    and blender are from a time when consumer products tended to be sturdier than
    today that I can still see them in her kitchen today. A camera back then was an
    investment. Look at Ian's pictures \u2013 the brands are engraved in the metal
    case. <em>Engraved. Metal case.</em> Compare that to plastic point-and-shoots.
    And my grandchildren won't get to admire my fridge, that's for sure ...\r\n\r\nThis
    logo will not be a rusty piece of lettering on a scrapped car, but probably \u2013
    hopefully \u2013 appear in quality print on letters, portfolios, etc., where the
    context makes clear that this is an indication of quality, not antiquity. It will
    remind you of the good old days, with their good old cameras, and real <em>love</em>
    for photography (since films were really expensive, too).\r\n\r\nPaired with quality
    work and state-of-the-art equipment, I think this will work very well.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-29 23:58:07'
- author:
    name: Jeremiah
    picture: 115266
  body: The type for photography in your first mockups was much stronger than Luca's
    revision. I wouldn't dare touch it.
  created: '2010-08-24 05:13:09'
- author:
    name: James.S.Welsh
    picture: 120258
  body: "Cr\xE8me de la cr\xE8me, v. nice. And appropriate I must say. The icon is
    terrific. As for the \"Photography\" go with your gut. I liked the first version
    best. FWIW."
  created: '2010-08-24 05:36:15'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "Thanks for the comments guys, I've actually put this guy on the back burner,
    as the business cards are not slated to be printed for a month or so. My client
    is super pleased though and I cannot thank you guys enough for the help refining
    this bad boy.\r\n\r\nI've also quite enjoyed our debate over how type has associations.
    My opinion is that it is the designers job to leverage these qualities and use
    them to ignite those nostalgic feelings. It's important to intellectualize our
    typographic knowledge and harness it. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fiedler3_4527.jpg]\r\n\r\nFor
    that reason I agree with Luca's recommendation to use Eurostile, attached is a
    screengrab of the business card in progress - just the front - this is one of
    the more dull ideas (the diagonal lines complement the angles of the logotype)
    but it showcases the new type lockup. Eurostiles structure is a nice complement
    the the boxier structure of the logotype. (Btw - the lines would be blind embossed.)\r\n\r\nAlso
    when it comes to creating supplemental material - I feel that eurostile is more
    ownable and unique - and I've never designed with it before so it keeps things
    interesting. I find myself continually surprised by it - having once had some
    preconceived dislike of eurostile. \r\n\r\n I've been busy with a new branding
    project that I'm super excited about - super strict brief (mid century modern,
    serifs, high ascenders, and needs to complement neutra face) My new client is
    an architect and is rather savvy - so she keeps me on my toes.  I'll start a new
    thread on that soon. \r\n\r\nThanks again everyone!"
  created: '2010-08-27 22:41:48'
- author:
    name: Jeremiah
    picture: 115266
  body: It looks great either way man, really some quality work.
  created: '2010-08-28 04:17:55'
- author:
    name: Jon Evenchen
    picture: 115064
  body: Hey Ian! It looks great! I think you solved the photography line issue wonderfully,
    eurostile looks great with that logotype, great contrast in sizes and overall
    just sweet!
  created: '2010-08-31 15:13:18'
- author:
    name: L.
    picture: 117666
  body: "I am happy that my hint turned out useful, nice work!\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 15:23:36'
- author:
    name: Studio Becenti
    picture: 120719
  body: Hey there, I'm a little late in coming to the party, but I just joined this
    site. I absolutely love retro design, and I agree with what Sebastian says about
    retro design and its relevance in today's world. Excellent job on that logo!
  created: '2010-09-17 23:30:41'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: Just opened my latest Communication Arts mag and was quite happy to see your
    identity featured. Congratulations!
  created: '2010-12-25 07:54:25'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "Ian, looks wonderful!  \r\n\r\nHow would you feel about setting the \"PHOTOGRAPHY\"
    on your business card in the same gold you use in the logotype (although maybe
    more of a milky, luminous gold would look stronger).  That could add a bit more
    consistency between the color logo and the business card, and could create an
    elegant color combination.  Keep up the good work."
  created: '2010-12-25 08:47:02'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: 'Apparently the old logotype is being used on the site, however: http://www.fiedler-photo.com/'
  created: '2010-12-29 22:48:57'
- author:
    name: IanCrombie
    picture: 116047
  body: "Thanks Evanbrog, super exciting! Its my first time being published. It's
    also actually my first time entering a piece to commarts. Well  the agency I work
    for entered and paid for it so they got a nod. But hey whatever, I'm just happy
    to take up a square inch next to work and people that humble and inspire me. \r\n\r\nTrevor,
    Great idea. I did this project freelance under the stipulation that I would design
    it for free so long as he would print the cards the way I wished. Letterpressed
    and now gold foil! WOO. Now I gotta go get on him to do that, and thanks penn
    for pointing out that i also have to get on his case about the logo on his website.
    \r\n\r\nAlso big thanks to everyone who helped out in this thread, I'd include
    you all in an acceptance speech! Well.... if i had to do one. Actually does any
    graphic design related award have acceptance speeches? Are we missing out? I feel
    jilted. :-)  "
  created: '2011-01-07 07:01:30'
date: '2010-07-20 16:31:03'
files:
- filename: Fiedler_01.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Fiedler_01.jpg
- filename: Fiedler_Logo_01.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Fiedler_Logo_01.jpg
- filename: Fiedler_5.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Fiedler_5.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Fiedler Photography Identity

---
