---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "Because most of my experience with [[Hebrew]] is with the Biblical text and
  related religious content, I remain somewhat uncertain about what constitutes a
  recommended character set\u2014in terms of Unicode codepoints\u2014for modern Hebrew.
  Some things are obvious, of course: the cantillation accents and signs such as the
  nun hafuch that occur only in the Bible text are clearly not needed. But there are
  some characters, related to vocalised text, that seem to me to exist in a grey area,
  due to their use in religious publications such as prayer books and perhaps, I wonder,
  elsewhere in restricted modern use?\r\n\r\nA question for modern Hebrew readers
  and typographers: what characters would you expect to be included in a well made
  font for modern Hebrew, and which would you expect to be excluded?"
comments:
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "\u2003For, <em>e.g.</em>, books, newspapers, <em>etc.</em>, letters Alef
    through Tav, punctuation marks Geresh &amp; Gershayim; possibly niqqud for some
    loan words.  Children\u2019s books need niqqud and Shin &amp; Sin dots. Latin
    punctuation: commas, full-stops, <em>etc.</em> Not sure if there\u2019s a standard
    for which set of quotation marks to use, though; I\u2019ve seen both \u201Chigh-high\u201D
    and \u201Clow-high\u201E\u2014with the low quotes used as open quotes (on the
    right). Latin numerals.\r\n\u2003Siddurim, <em>etc.</em>, need niqqud and punctuation
    marks Paseq &amp; Sof Pasuq (for embedded Biblical verses).  Some siddurim include
    cantillation for the Shema &amp; Shirat HaYam, but nothing complicated.\r\n\u2003That
    what you had in mind?\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2010-07-21 06:08:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Joel. Three characters I am wondering about are technically part
    of the niqqud system, but their use seems limited:\r\n\r\nU+05BA, HOLAM HASER
    FOR VAV (distinguishes vav+vowel 'VO' from vocal vav 'O')\r\n\r\nU+05BD, METEG\r\n\r\nU+05C7,
    QAMATS QATAN\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 06:45:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'm no expert, but I would guess the dividing line on this is whether you
    want to include glyphs for the prayer book. \r\n\r\nIf not, I wouldn't think you'd
    need the meteg or qamatz qatan. I didn't know there was a special Holam Haser
    the VAV, so I can't say. You definitely need the regular Holam Haser.\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2010-07-23 00:12:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Hi John\r\nAnd I Wonder why they have unicode for Qamats Qatan and not for
    Sheva-Na and Dagesh Hazaq.\r\n\r\nthe word \u05D7\u05D5\u05B9\u05DC\u05B8\u05DD
    IS holam Male \r\nA word like \u05DE\u05B4\u05E6\u05B0\u05D5\u05B9\u05EA\u05B8\u05D9\u05D5
    IS holam haser\r\n\r\nin holam male we position the holm on top of the vav in
    the center where in holam haser we position the holm to the left of the VAV.\r\n\r\nqamats
    qatan is not qamats rachav \r\nThen qatan is O and the rachav Is A.\r\nin a word
    like \u05DC\u05DE\u05D3\u05D4 Like LOMDA go like \u05DC\u05B8\u05DE\u05B0\u05D3\u05B8\u05D4
    But LAMDA is also \u05DC\u05B8\u05DE\u05B0\u05D3\u05B8\u05D4 but with a meteg
    after the first qamats"
  created: '2010-07-25 06:44:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typograph, isn't this just for religious texts? I think John's question is
    whether these refinements are necessary for a font that will be used just for
    modern Hebrew. My impression is that Israelis writing modern Hebrew only put in
    nikkud when there is some ambiguity that they will resolve. And then the refinements\u2014qamats
    qatan, meteg, schva na, etc.\u2014are not needed, right?\r\n\r\nDoes your code
    have to include specific words as exceptions, so that it is like a dictionary
    look up?"
  created: '2010-07-25 15:30:48'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "in modern hebrew qamats qatan sheva na & holam haser are not used.\r\n\r\nmy
    OT project subsitutes the glyphes mainly acording to hebrew grammer, but their
    are exceptions which are built in as a dictionary."
  created: '2010-07-25 16:37:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">are exceptions which are built in as a dictionary. \r\n\r\nAh, that's what
    I was arguing here on Typophile with Israel S. would be necessary for this kind
    of project to work. Also there seem to be different views on when the sheva na
    is needed. For example do you say \"schva\" or \"sheva\" (schva nach or sheva
    na)? In modern Hebrew it is the first, right?\r\n\r\nBy the way, above in your
    \"holam\" and \"mitzvotav\" in Hebrew characters, the vav with the and the nikkud
    don't show in my typophile window (I'm on a Mac, Firefox). When I copied and pasted
    it into Text Edit, they showed up properly. "
  created: '2010-07-25 23:54:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "lookit, things are not so simple.\r\nand is not for typophile.\r\n\r\nif
    y wish you can mail me \r\nstudiofried@gmail.com\r\nor call\r\n\r\n02-9999325\r\n\r\nI
    would gladly ansawr your questions.\r\n\r\nmy name is eli fried"
  created: '2010-07-26 05:45:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: '*i''m listening*'
  created: '2010-07-26 20:09:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n>  HOLAM HASER FOR VAV\r\n\r\nis that a new  mark?  you said
    something about Vav Haluma..."
  created: '2010-07-28 02:02:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "HOLAM HASER FOR VAV (U+05BA) was added in Unicode 5.0, so not so new any
    more. This character enables an encoding and display distinction to be made between
    vav haluma (U+05D5 U+05BA) and holam male (U+05D5 U+05B9). For a full explanation
    and illustration, see page 16 of the <a href=\"http://www.sbl-site.org/Fonts/SBLHebrewUserManual1.5x.pdf\">SBL
    Hebrew font manual</a> [PDF].\r\n\r\nWhen this mark was encoded, it was decided
    to treat the existing HOLAM (U+05B9) character as holam male on the basis that
    this is much more common than vav haluma. So the new character performs the same
    role for vav as the existing holam performs for all the letters other than vav.
    A bit confusing, but the best approach from a backwards compatibility perspective."
  created: '2010-07-28 04:53:33'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Tiberian/Biblical Hebrew -- there is no Holam Haser; so are we talking about
    modern Hebrew?
  created: '2010-07-28 05:13:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I'm not sure about the correct terminology -- what does 'haser' mean
    exactly? -- but there is a distinction in holam position for vav haluma and holam
    male in editions of the masoretic text, which I presume reflects the manuscript
    tradition. See the Genesis 4:13 example I cite in the SBL Hebrew manual:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gen413_3738.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    checked this against Professor Dotan's edition of L, the BHK and BHS editions,
    and also the JPS Tanakh. I don't have a copy of the L facsimile, but presume that
    this distinction exists there also. [The JPS typesetting follows what I think
    of as a modern convention in which the holam sits much further to the left, between
    the letters rather than over the left side of the letter.]\r\n\r\nIf I recall
    correctly, there are about 300 occurrences of vav haluma in the Bible text, which
    would use the U+05BA mark, as contrasted with some 25,000 instances of holam male,
    which would use the U+05B9 mark.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm wondering is whether U+05BA is
    something that should be included in fonts that support vocalised modern Hebrew.
    It seems to me a useful sort of thing to be able to distinguish two different
    pronunciations in terms of encoding and appearance, even if this character is
    not (yet) widely used."
  created: '2010-07-28 18:44:13'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n\r\nIf the Holam Haser for Vav is based on Biblical Hebrew/the
    Tiberian system then the name is wrong. \r\n In the Tiberian, Biblical Hebrew
    they didn't  distinguish between Holam Male (1\u2014 Psalms 118,12) or Haser (2\u2014
    Exodus 22,5)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A-Holam_3735.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    Tiberian vocalization system is known as a quality and not a quantity system.
    The main reason that the Tiberian vocalization gave us partial indication of relative
    vowel quantity is because the vowel quantity was not phonemic. The only indication
    of  vowel quantity was by adding the sheva mark  to the hatafim. That said, they
    were short. Vowel length in Tiberian Hebrew was based on the syllable structure!\r\n\r\nBTW,
    because the Tiberian system was  marking the qualitative distinctions between
    the vowels they didn't have any distinct graphic mark for the kamats katan!\r\n\r\nAs
    we know, they could not change the text; they could not add letters e.g. matres
    lectionis. They just added the nikkud! \r\n\r\nProf. Dotan, in one of his books
    that he published in 2005  stated very clearly that the vowel was pronounced the
    same whether there was a  matres lectionis or not.\r\nSame view by  Prof. Blau
    that published his book in the 1970s. \r\n\r\nIn the treatise Hidayat Al-Qari
    (the correct reading of the Torah) in the description of the vowels, it's said
    about the positioning of the Holam: The holam is one dot placed above and between
    two letters.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe whole holam male, tsere male etc etc is a much  later
    innovation, but definitely not by the Tiberian. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-28 19:18:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It is entirely possible that the Unicode character name is wrong or misleading;
    you'd have to ask Mark Shoulson why that name was proposed. It doesn't really
    matter, I think, because although Unicode character names are immutable they're
    not functional. What matters is documentation that describes the use and purpose
    of a character.\r\n\r\nRemember that Unicode encodes what is on the page, not
    what it signifies, so things like vowel quantity and quality aren't really relevant.
    There are two dots that occur above vav: one above the letter and one to the left
    of the letter, and this distinction is systematically applied in at least some
    texts, and needs to be encodable on computers and displayable with appropriate
    fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>The holam is one dot placed above and between two letters.</em>\r\n\r\nYet
    this is not the case in L, nor in typographic editions such as Professor Dotan's
    that follow the manuscript convention: the holam is placed above the left side
    of the letter, not between the letters, excepting when holam male (positioned
    centered above vav or a little to the right side), or when followed by an unvocalised
    aleph (shifted to right side of aleph), or, obviously, when on lamed where the
    ascender obliges the dot to be positioned between the letters."
  created: '2010-07-29 03:09:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> What I'm wondering is whether U+05BA... even if this character is not (yet)
    widely used.\r\n\r\n\r\nJohn,\r\n\r\nWe write (Modern Hebrew)   \u2014 with or
    without vowel signs (ktiv male or haser):\r\n \u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05DF/\u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05B9\u05DF,
    \ \u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05B9\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9,  \u05DE\u05E6\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA/\u05DE\u05E6\u05D5\u05D5\u05B9\u05EA\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Avon_3704.jpg]"
  created: '2010-07-30 18:46:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yes, I know that Hebrew can be written with or without vowel signs. What I
    am wondering is whether, when writing with vowel signs, modern users might want
    to make a visual distinction between vav+holam as VO and vav+holam as O?
  created: '2010-07-30 19:32:47'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Meteg: Meteg is not part of the Modern Hebrew vocalization. We will not find
    it along with the other vowels in children's books, for example. However, we do
    find it in dictionaries. The only recent use of the meteg was in the book Hebrew
    in Jeans which was published  several years ago. But this book is about Hebrew
    slang and serves as a dictionary. Grammar books of Modern Hebrew use other marks
    instead of meteg. In terms of what is missing in Hebrew fonts, and what I'm using/doing
    regularly, are these marks:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metegA_4026.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NewM2_5044.png]\r\n\r\nVav
    + Holam: Historically and technically we can blame the early printers for positioning
    \ the Holam above the vav. In books where the subject matter is not Biblical we
    will not see the distinction of the positioning, and for the modern Hebrew speaker
    the pronunciation would be the same.  Moreover, \"male\" or \"haser\" refers to
    the presence or absence of the vav, and does not indicate anything about the pronunciation.
    For example the word     \u05D1\u05D5\u05B9 and \u05D1\u05B9  are the same. \r\n\r\nHere
    are  samples from two different books:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/book2_6613.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MBhebrew2_4066.jpg]\r\n
    In sample 1 we can see this distinction. The subject matter is the Masorah notes,
    nikkud  etc. and the scholar wanted to make this distinction. In sample 2 we can't
    find this distinction, though the subject matter is Biblical Hebrew. But again,
    the speaker of the Modern Hebrew won't pronounce it differently. \r\nThere is
    nothing wrong with having this mark, or if you want to make this distinction.
    But in Modern Hebrew in books and publications that require nikkud (and has nothing
    to do with Biblical Hebrew,  Language & grammar in BH) we won't find this distinction.
    \r\nMoreover, in the MSS we will find the patach genuva to the right. But in modern
    Hebrew we don't follow that positioning (e.g. children's books, young-adults'
    books with nikkud etc). \r\n\r\nI don't know if we can compare between MSS and
    printed the Bible. The scribe, for example, added to the text hundreds of marks
    every day, and he was just a human being. So we might find some differences in
    the positioning even within the same page. In this regard L codex is not different
    from A codex. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Asamuel1-19b_5639.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Lcodex1_6583.png]\r\n\r\nKamats
    katan: a siddur/  prayer book has a very specific audience which is based on specific
    tradition. The aim of the publisher when publishing a book for kids (with nikkud,
    modern Hebrew) is to reach as many kids as possible regardless of their tradition.
    But let's say that the editor wants to add a whole bunch of marks. The word \u05E6\u05B8\u05D4\u05B3\u05E8\u05B7\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD
    \ can be pronounced tsohorayim or tsahorayim. That said, o vs. a sound.  The same
    with the word \u05DE\u05B8\u05D7\u05B3\u05E8\u05B8\u05EA\u05B7\u05D9\u05B4\u05DD
    \u2014 mohoratayim or mahoratayim. Again, kamats katan vs. kamats.\r\nShould we
    add an extra page which will explain to the readers the differences? \r\nWhen
    Dr. Shelomo Tal worked on the siddur Rinat Yisrael he introduced not just the
    kamats katan, but also marks to indicate milel and milra; he added commas and
    periods to help the readers when they are reading, and not to connect between
    words and creating new/wrong meaning to their prayers, new and clear divisions
    between paragraphs etc etc.  What is less known is  that he also published a book
    which could be regarded as 'behind the scenes' where he explained  his decisions
    plus told the history of the prayer books. \r\nThe publishers and editors (mostly
    here in the US)  are facing more acute problems with their siddurim (which Dr.
    Tal tried to solve back in the 1970s!).\r\nLet's go back to the patach gnu'va
    to have something to think about... as we know the siddurim indicate it by positioning
    it to the right of the letter. For a person that goes to the synagogue pronounciation
    is very important. It is also important  to pronounce the name of God e.g. \u05D0\u05B1\u05DC\u05D5\u05B9\u05D4\u05BC\u05B7\r\nWe
    could ask as many people as possible how to pronounce it; almost 80% of the time
    (and sometimes more) we will hear \u05D0\u05B1\u05DC\u05D5\u05B9\u05D4\u05B7\u05D4.
    That said, doubling the letter he! But this is not the way to pronounce it. We
    call it patach gnuva because the letter he (in our sample) \"stole\" the patach
    (from the alef). \r\nWe need to say \u05D0\u05B1\u05DC\u05D5\u05B9\u05D0\u05B7/\u05D0\u05B1\u05DC\u05D5\u05B9\u05D0\u05B7\u05D4,
    to hear the sound \"a\" very clearly, and the letter he is silent! So the mark
    is there.  Why is there a  problem to say it correctly? :)\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-11 08:08:48'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "As far as I know, modern Hebrew is based on \"memory\" and the reader recognizing
    the word and it's pronunciation without the help of the Nikud, and some of the
    vowels like Yod and Vav are silent or dropped in some cases (but those should
    be included in the alphabet). for the rest all the alphabet is the same, including
    the closing/end letters.\r\n\r\nThe Nikud is not there cause it's a Biblical Hybrew,
    it's there to make sure people pronounce/sing it correctly, so it's there when
    really needed in some cases.\r\n\r\nalso, there is a difference between classic
    alphabet and written/hand-written alphabet.. they look different.\r\n\r\nmy 2
    cents"
  created: '2010-08-11 14:09:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks for the very detailed response, David. Will I see you at TypeCon next
    week?
  created: '2010-08-14 06:31:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'On the meteg, in the new Koren Siddur, the milel words (accent on penultimate
    syllable instead of final) have the accented syllable marked with a meteg, something
    that is very helpful for those of us who are not native speakers of Hebrew. This
    is an innovative use of the meteg, I believe. This, again, is not modern Hebrew. '
  created: '2010-08-15 00:09:44'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Will I see you at TypeCon next week?\r\n\r\nYes, of course."
  created: '2010-08-15 20:40:27'
- author:
    name: JCSalomon
    picture: 128147
  body: "William,\r\n\u2003The use of the meteg to indicate milel words is useful,
    but did not originate with the new Koren Siddur.  The ArtScroll siddur uses that
    method, as does the new Kol Yaakov; it may even be older.\r\n\u2014Joel"
  created: '2010-08-18 01:00:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks for the correction Joel. '
  created: '2010-08-18 01:29:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: My Even-Shoshan Hebrew dictionary in 4 volumes from 1988 uses the meteg for
    that purpose.
  created: '2010-08-18 01:43:38'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "if you want a set that is useful for siddurim (and by the way this is a HUGE
    market), then you need:\r\n<li>kamatz katan</li>\r\n<li>chataf kamatz katan</li>\r\n<li>shva
    na</li>\r\n<li>shva nach (yes this is different from a regular shva)</li>\r\n<li>shva
    merachef</li>\r\n<li>dagesh chazak</li>\r\n<li>dagesh kal</li>\r\n<li>cholam chaser</li>\r\n<li>the
    \"meteg\" of the sof pasuk (usually looks like a meteg)</li>\r\n<li>meteg</li>\r\n<li>gaaya
    (usually looks like a meteg)</li>\r\n<li>mileil (so in Koren this glyph might
    look like a meteg below the letter, but in Rinat it will an ole above the letter)</li>\r\n<li>milra</li>\r\n<li>the
    two diamonds of the sof pasuk (as opposed to a colon)</li>\r\n<li>patach ganuv</li>\r\n\r\nin
    general the mistakes in the taamey mikra (if I recall there are 3) need to be
    fixed. It seems that there was a misunderstanding that the taamim of the 21 books
    are different from then the \"sifrey emet\", ie Job, Proverbs and Psalms. I'm
    not really an expert in this area, but if necessary I can put you in contact with
    a number of people who can explain it, although there is an excellent book in
    Hebrew by Rabbi Broyer z\"l called \"Taamey Mikra\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-29 06:44:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's interesting to me that the responses in this thread were more helpful
    because they were not based on the understanding I would have had of the initial
    question.\r\n\r\nWhat is the recommended character set for a font used with modern
    Hebrew? I would have thought the answer to that question could be obtained trivially:
    look at the character set of nearly any Hebrew font, since most fonts won't include
    the extra typographical refinements needed for Scriptural text.\r\n\r\nBut the
    responses here dealt with the \"ideal\" character set instead of the \"typical\"
    one, thereby pointing out that vowel points are used with modern Hebrew texts
    for children's books and in the pronunciation keys of dictionaries.\r\n\r\nSo
    far, the advice you're getting here seems to be that about the only things you
    can safely omit are cantillation marks - and the extra-wide versions of the letters
    used to allow vowel points to be applied to a \"missing\" letter while not putting
    that letter in the body of a Scriptural text! And some of the things you can't
    omit aren't even in Unicode yet."
  created: '2010-10-31 03:08:23'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> But the responses here dealt with the \"ideal\" character set instead of
    the \"typical\" one...\r\n\r\nWhat is the recommended character set for a font
    used with English/Arabic/Amharic?\r\n:)"
  created: '2010-10-31 03:18:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Amharic is tricky; I've encountered a web site that notes that most Amharic
    fonts have been dumbed down to correspond with a drastic simplification of that
    script so that it can work with a typewriter.\r\n\r\nFor Hebrew, though, I would
    have been inclined to simply point out Code Page 1255:\r\n\r\n[[http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/goglobal/cc305148.aspx]]\r\n\r\nas
    representing the character set that would actually be available to users of a
    Hebrew font unless they were using specialized software that accessed extra characters.
    (Of course, you wouldn't want to exclude anything available in Macintosh Hebrew
    - but I haven't found a reference for that.)\r\n\r\nOf course, one would still
    have to apply a knowledge of Hebrew to that chart, to realize that one would want,
    as glyphs, shin plus shin dot and shin plus sin dot, rather than trying to compose
    the characters - although vowel points, which <em>are</em> included on that code
    page, would normally be added by composing characters because of the number of
    possible combinations. (In Amharic, of course, distinctive glyphs are inescapable.)"
  created: '2010-10-31 03:35:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rephael listed the Hebrew grammar glyphs used in Modern Hebrew.\r\n\r\nThey
    are:\r\n\r\nkamatz katan\r\nchataf kamatz katan\r\nshva na\r\nshva nach (yes this
    is different from a regular shva)\r\nshva merachef\r\ndagesh chazak\r\ndagesh
    kal\r\ncholam chaser\r\nthe \"meteg\" of the sof pasuk (usually looks like a meteg)\r\nmeteg\r\ngaaya
    (usually looks like a meteg)\r\nmileil (so in Koren this glyph might look like
    a meteg below the letter, but in Rinat it will an ole above the letter)\r\nmilra\r\nthe
    two diamonds of the sof pasuk (as opposed to a colon)\r\npatach ganuv\r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    I understand, there is no differences between Biblical Hebrew, post-Biblical Hebrew,
    such as Mishnaic Hebrew, and between Modern Hebrew.\r\n\r\n\r\nHebrew Grammar
    is studied daily in Israel, and most Hebrew schools in the diaspora. Having a
    group of fonts supporting these glyphs will certainly be used regularly, and promote
    the increased knowledge of Hebrew Grammar.\r\n\r\n\r\nI agree with John Hudson
    that the teaching of the rules of Hebrew Grammar is outside the realm of Unicode.
    But the glyphs used to describe Hebrew Grammar are within the scope of Unicode,
    and should be implemented as soon as possible.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 02:31:21'
date: '2010-07-20 18:33:04'
node_type: forum
title: Character set for modern Hebrew

---
