---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "John Daggett from Mozilla, who is the editor of the <a href=\"http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-fonts/\">CSS3
  Fonts Module</a>, will be in Los Angeles for a few days preceding this year's <a
  href=\"http://www.typecon.com/\">TypeCon</a> conference. I'm working with John and
  the TypeCon organisers to hold a briefing/dialogue session on web typography in
  CSS3 on Wednesday 18 August, at the <a href=\"http://www.typecon.com/hotel.php\">conference
  venue</a> in LA.\r\n\r\nThe purpose of this session is for John to explain the new
  typographic features in CSS3 \u2014 including access to a large number of OpenType
  Layout features \u2014 and to get feedback from font developers and from typographically
  aware web designers. This is a good opportunity for members of the type community
  to help improve the CSS3 Fonts Module standard. Previous criticisms of the draft
  standard from font developers have noted that the terminology used in the specification
  differs from that commonly used by type designers and typographers, and hence is
  confusing, so one thing that could be achieved at this session is review of that
  terminology. As other browser makers will be present in LA for the preceding W3C
  Web Fonts Working Group meeting, there may also be an opportunity to discuss CSS3
  implementations\r\n\r\nI'm currently thinking in terms of a half-day session, most
  likely in the afternoon, but this plan has not been finalised. In order to determine
  logistics for this event, the TypeCon organisers need to get a sense of how many
  people to expect. If you are interested in attending this session, please indicate
  so in this thread or, if you prefer, contact me at tiro[at]tiro[dot]com.\r\n\r\n<strong>Please
  note: this session is not for discussion of web font formats or licensing. There
  will be at least one session devoted to web fonts during the main conference programme.
  This session is focused on CSS3 typography.</strong>\r\n\r\nPlease also note that
  this session will take place at the same time as some of the pre-conference workshops.
  Please be aware of a possible conflict if you have signed up for a workshop or are
  planning to.\r\n\r\nThe intention is for this session to be free, but for planning
  purposes we really do need to know in advance if you are planning to attend."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Where do we sign up? I don't see this on the TypeCon site.
  created: '2010-07-21 18:07:33'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: I can certainly be there.
  created: '2010-07-21 18:17:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: There's no formal sign-up Si. It's an informal event piggy-backing on the
    TypeCon conference. Just indicate here or by email to me if you plan to attend.
    We just need to get an estimate of the number of people to expect so that the
    conference organisers can determine how large a room will be needed.
  created: '2010-07-21 18:25:05'
- author:
    name: Vlad Levantovsky
    picture: 117231
  body: "Thank you John H. and John D. for organizing this discussion! I will definitely
    be there.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-21 18:32:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Just indicate here or by email to me if you plan to attend. \r\n\r\nOkay,
    I'm in. Sergey and John Berry too, probably.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-07-21 19:03:22'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "John(s) - I'll be there, looking forward to this discussion! \r\n\r\nBill"
  created: '2010-07-22 04:45:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: I'll be there.
  created: '2010-07-22 18:33:19'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Anyone who plans to attend - please email or message John Hudson and I so
    we can work with the conference hotel to add more sleeping rooms to our discounted
    room block to cover the earlier part of the week. This is urgent - we need to
    make sure we have rooms available ASAP to accommodate attendees of this briefing.
  created: '2010-07-28 05:35:58'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: I would like to attend this session :)
  created: '2010-07-28 16:26:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I would like to attend this session.
  created: '2010-07-28 17:55:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please count me in too - thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-28 23:55:08'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: Sounds worth attending.
  created: '2010-07-29 00:14:59'
- author:
    name: David Jonathan Ross
  body: I'd like to attend as well. Thanks!
  created: '2010-07-29 03:13:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Rutter
    picture: 113309
  body: Gah! Would have loved to attend this, but sadly won't be able to make it out
    from the UK until Thursday. Will there be a summary posted online anywhere?
  created: '2010-07-31 10:22:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Will there be a summary posted online anywhere?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are
    no plans for this, but if someone wants to volunteer to take notes...."
  created: '2010-07-31 18:21:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Unless there is some kind of logistics problem, I plan on being there, and
    probably around three others from the Google Font API team as well. It certainly
    sounds like there's a lot of interesting stuff to talk about!
  created: '2010-08-01 01:21:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It's just a shame, considering the audience and the time of type, that it
    sounds like a bunch of disorganized free-for-alls when it could be sweet music
    for the audience:\r\n\r\nWhat Now? \r\nReports and conditions from along the trail:\r\n\r\nWeb
    Type Tool Maker, Adam Twardoch (FontLab)\r\n\r\nWeb Graphic Design Tool Maker,
    Christopher Slye (Adobe)\r\n\r\nWeb Font Server I, Bryan Mason, (Typekit)\r\n\r\nWeb
    Font Server II, Bill Davis (Ascender, WebType)\r\n\r\nWeb Content Maker, Roger
    Black (RB Inc.),\r\n\r\nWeb Browser Maker, Simon Daniels (Microsoft)\r\n\r\n4:00
    Drover, John Hudson (Tiro Typeworks)\r\n\r\n\r\nWHAT NEXT?\r\nFrom the front on
    the future:\r\n\r\nType designers of tomorrow, Tal & Erik (LetterError & Type
    Supply), \r\n\r\nThe web text rex next, Raph Levien (Google)\r\n\r\nWG of W3C,
    Vladimir Levantovsky, et al (Monotype Imaging)\r\n\r\nManagement tools of tomorrow,
    Tom Phinney (Extensis)\r\n\r\nFastest moving Browser Maker, John Dagget, (Mozzila)\r\n\r\n5:15
    Drover, John Hudson (Tiro Typeworks)\r\n\r\nJust about all the same people...
    but with purpose.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-01 12:34:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@clagnut\r\n\r\nRichard - FWIW - my plan is to take notes, photos, and record
    what is said, too - the last thing happening only if nobody minds.\r\n\r\n@davidberlow\r\n\r\nA
    more freewheeling approach than what you describe is hardly \"without purpose\".
    However, I think one-day conferences of the <em>kind</em> you describe - focused
    exclusively on type and typography - will probably be in substantial demand in
    a few years.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-08-01 15:08:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David,\r\n\r\na) John Daggett won't be around for the TypeCon conference;
    he's coming to LA for the W3C WG meeting on the Tuesday, and leaving on the Thursday;\r\n\r\nb)
    there's an opportunity for people who are interested in providing input on a specific
    part of the CSS3 standard to meet with him on the Wednesday;\r\n\r\nc) its a technical
    meeting, not a dog and pony show.\r\n___\r\n\r\nWhat TypeCon are organising for
    the conference itself in terms of web fonts is in preliminary planning stages.
    The programme on the website suggests that I'm going to give a short presentation
    on WOFF, which was news to me and, I'm pretty sure, not the case. I suspect Tal
    and Erik will be giving that presentation, and that Chris Lilley from the W3C,
    who is not mentioned in the online programme, will be talking about the W3C web
    font standard. I expect the format of these sessions will become a lot more organised
    and structured once the various participants have an opportunity to discuss them
    and make a plan.\r\n___\r\n\r\nI think business cards saying \u2018Drover\u2019
    would be pretty swell."
  created: '2010-08-01 18:18:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "a) Big deal. \r\nb) Email it.\r\nc) I wouldn't understand. \r\n\r\nPeople
    are coming a long way and they've waited a long time. Don't blow it again. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-01 19:30:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, web fonts are explicitly <em>not</em> germane to the pre-conference
    CSS3 session that this thread is about.\r\n\r\nI'm as concerned as you are about
    the main conference web font sessions, which so far seem ill-defined and uncoordinated.
    Hmm. Maybe they need a drover."
  created: '2010-08-01 21:49:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...web fonts are explicitly not germane to the pre-conference CSS3 session\r\n\r\nLol,
    you can say that again. I understand there are three sessions John, the point
    is general; the people who know are all there, from near and far, and there are
    a LOT of questions unanswered from here and there, recently and from the past.
    \r\n\r\nThe history of most of these sessions, CSS or not, is tinted by post-panel
    depression, as in no one can answer the questions after, in fact most people don't
    understand much more than when they arrived. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-02 12:50:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bryan Mason from TypeKit is apparently going to be moderating the TypeCon
    web fonts panel. I'm sure he would appreciate receiving from you any questions
    that you might like asked. That's no guarantee that you'll get an answer, let
    alone an answer that you like,  but as you say the people who know -- or whom
    we hope know -- will (mostly) be there.\r\n\r\nIf there are questions you have
    for John Daggett and other CSS3 session participants, I'll be happy to field them
    for you."
  created: '2010-08-02 17:48:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Do we have a time for this yet? I need to book my flight today, and I don't
    want to miss this....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-03 21:27:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Arrive Tuesday night - so you don't miss the WOFF party... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/events.php#wtfwoff\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-03 21:59:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thomas, I've not heard back from John Daggett yet, but I'm 90% certain that
    this will be in the afternoon on the Wednesday, e.g. 2:00 to 5:00 pm. I'll finalise
    this with Tamye tomorrow.
  created: '2010-08-03 23:59:34'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "David, your concerns are valid. It's helpful that you're explaining them
    here. Perhaps we can try to focus the panel discussion on topics and information
    that will make things more clear, not less. (No guarantee, though!)\r\n\r\nI hope
    Bryan is a good moderator. :) It's a critical job."
  created: '2010-08-04 03:28:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks Chris. \r\n\r\nTo Christalize the headline issue as I see it: we now
    have the TT font format pared down to the capabilities of the T1 format circa
    1985, being stuffed into a 2010 wrapper with no improvements on anything helpful
    to users, (if you don't understand that, just look carefully). \r\n\r\nI think
    we'll need more than bread and circuses to get out of the swamp. It'd be interesting
    to hear what people think the solutions are. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-04 12:56:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...the TT font format pared down to the capabilities of the T1
    format circa 1985...</em>\r\n\r\nIs that the T1 fonts with 16-bit and 32-bit character
    encoding, up to 65536 glyph per font, smart layout features for non-Latin scripts,
    and coming up -- the focus of the CSS3 Font Module session -- smart layout features
    for rich typography? I don't remember those T1 fonts."
  created: '2010-08-04 17:02:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'If all you care about is the rendering control (and not encoding and layout
    features), then the big advantage of TrueType was that you could get relatively
    consistent results in terms of bi-level bitmap patterns regardless of the OS and
    TrueType rasterizer - whereas Adobe was in the habit of "improving" the output
    of the PostScript rasterizer. Obviously that changed big time with OS X, Freetype
    and ClearType. '
  created: '2010-08-04 18:22:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OSX being the biggest problem in terms of dumbing things down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 19:10:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I love it when you guys talk technical. I'm a one-click kinda guy, myself.\r\n\r\n@JH\r\nSo
    John, is this a definite for Wed. between 2PM and 5PM?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-08-05 00:52:28'
- author:
    name: bryanmason
    picture: 117895
  body: "John: \r\nThree or four of us from Typekit will be there for your session
    on Wed. Thanks for doing it. \r\n\r\nDavid: \r\nVery helpful. For the panel section,
    with so many folks on the stage, my hope is to skip a lot of intro/background
    material and get right to meaty questions/dialogue.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo - do send me
    the questions you'd like to hear folks answer: <a href=\"mailto:bryan@typekit.com>bryan@typekit.com</a>\r\n\r\n.b"
  created: '2010-08-06 23:15:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So has the day & time been nailed down?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 16:39:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm just waiting final confirmation from the TypeCon organisers. It will definitely
    be the Wednesday, 18 August, and in the afternoon. Probably starting at 2:00,
    but I will confirm that a.s.a.p.
  created: '2010-08-10 16:51:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "OFFICIAL NOTICE\r\n\r\nThe CSS3 Font Module pre-conference session will take
    place on Wednesday 18 August, beginning at 2:00pm. We will officially end at 5:00pm,
    but if people want to stay longer to keep a discussion going, that should be possible.\r\n\r\nThe
    session will take place at the TypeCon conference hotel.\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/hotel.php\r\n\r\nThe
    room will be posted on the day.\r\n\r\nThere is no fee to attend this session,
    and now that the room size is confirmed there is no need to register interest
    in attending. Drop-ins welcome.\r\n___\r\n\r\nSponsored by Tiro Typeworks. Thanks
    to SOTA for making this possible."
  created: '2010-08-10 18:45:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Much thanks for this. A great idea.
  created: '2010-08-10 19:44:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Update:\r\n\r\nThe session will take place in the \u2018Westside\u2019 room
    on the plaza level of the conference hotel.\r\n\r\nJohn Daggett will begin the
    session with an approx. 45 minute presentation on the CSS3 Font Module, covering\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>CSS3
    Font spec overview</li>\r\n<li>basic font properties (family name, style matching,
    size)</li>\r\n<li>@font-face mechanism</li>\r\n<li>layout feature support</li>\r\n<li>testing
    and conformance</li>\r\n<li>font security issues</li>\r\n<li>ideas beyond CSS3
    Fonts</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nFollowing this, there will be open discussion on these
    and related topics. If you already have a question you would like to ask or a
    topic you want to discuss, you can post it here so that John will have some idea
    what to expect. I've already told him that I want to discuss possible CSS mechanisms
    for ppem-specific outline selection."
  created: '2010-08-14 17:05:26'
- author:
    name: ChrisLilley
  body: "And for people wanting some reading on the plane, to get up to speed and/or
    find all the tricky problems,\r\n\r\nCSS Fonts Module Level 3\r\nEditor's Draft
    10 August 2010\r\nhttp://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-fonts/"
  created: '2010-08-15 16:44:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you. It's now on my Kindle.\r\n(Yes, I just wanted to say that... :-)
    I love that little thing.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-15 17:00:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hrant, at the risk of topic drift....\r\n\r\nHow did you go about capturing
    and repurposing that for the Kindle? I have not yet found a simple way to do it
    while keeping the graphics intact (emailing to my Kindle gets the file converted
    without the graphics). Maybe it's just because I haven't figured out the MobiPocket
    Creator software yet.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-16 07:47:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: You guys are too advanced for me. I printed a double-sided booklet at Kinkos!
  created: '2010-08-16 12:44:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thomas, I tried a few things, and only one worked: SelectAll, Copy-Paste
    into Word, then send them the Word file* to convert. Except for the header/footer
    garbage which you have to ignore it works quite well. The page above is an easy
    one, but even something like this\r\nhttp://www.autofieldguide.com/articles/030901.html\r\nlooks
    great after a page or two of garbage.\r\n\r\n* I use .doc, haven't tried .docx
    yet.\r\n\r\nOf course if all else fails one can \"print\" a PDF from the browser
    and just use that, but you know the Kindle limitations with PDFs (although it's
    still the best reader for PDFs).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-16 14:39:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Thanks, Hrant. That was on my list of things to try, but it was just one
    of a large array of options.\r\n\r\n(Side note: I was honestly astonished at the
    quality of Kindle text rendering of OpenType CFF (PostScript outlines) in PDF.
    It is the best greyscale text rendering I've ever seen. I'm curious whose rasterizer
    they're using, whether it's one I've seen before.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-16 17:06:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's FreeType. But the quality comes from the paper-like display.\r\nAnd
    you should see the new iteration - already out in the DX, and\r\ncoming out in
    11 days in the smaller one, which they announced\r\n2 days after I bought mine...
    although I got a good deal on it, plus\r\nI get to use it during TypeCon! Also,
    I don't like the new keyboard.\r\n\r\nBTW, this is a great place to be:\r\nhttp://www.mobileread.com/forums/forumdisplay.php?f=150\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-16 18:13:08'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hrant -- <cite>It's FreeType. But the quality comes from the paper-like display.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    does not make sense. According to <a href=\"http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nc20100113pc.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">this article</a>, the resolution is 150ppi, with 16 shades of
    grey, which is not so terribly much. And the FreeType samples provided <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/70216#comment-424626\"
    target=\"_blank\">over here</a> look pretty impressive. So at best it is a combination
    of both.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-16 18:45:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't mean to denigrate FreeType. But without the eInk (way beyond mere
    resolution) it's just another good renderer. If you're coming to TypeCon (or ATypI)
    I'll gladly show you (and of course anybody else).\r\n\r\nBTW, since that article:\r\n-
    The DX's price has gone down to $379.\r\n- The new firmware (2.5) does PDFs much
    better.\r\n\r\nOh wait, this is not a Kindle thread... (Sorry, I'll stop now.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-16 19:37:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've got both a Kindle DX and a Kindle 2, actually. Also happy to compare
    rendering and such with folks at the coming conferences. It would be interesting
    to compare the same PDF on a Sony Reader or a Nook.\r\n\r\nThough honestly I don't
    expect to read a lot of PDFs on my Kindle....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-17 03:13:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "http://www.amazon.com/Wireless-Reading-Display-Graphite-Globally/dp/B002FQJT3Q
    \r\n\r\n\"New Proprietary Screen Technology - Faster Page Turns, New and Improved
    Fonts\r\nKindle\u2019s new, high-contrast display is further optimized with Amazon\u2019s
    proprietary waveform and font technology to make pages turn faster and fonts sharper.
    Waveform is a series of electronic pulses that move black and white electronic
    ink particles to achieve a final gray level for an image or text. We have tuned
    Kindle's waveform and controller mechanism to make page turning 20% faster. This
    waveform tuning, combined with new hand-built, custom fonts and font-hinting,
    make words and letters more crisp, clear, and natural-looking. Font hints are
    instructions, written as code, that control points on a font character's line
    and improve legibility at small font sizes where few pixels are available. Hinting
    is a mix of aesthetic judgments and complicated technical strategies. We've designed
    our proprietary font-hinting to optimize specifically for the special characteristics
    of electronic ink.\""
  created: '2010-08-17 04:07:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> hand-built, custom fonts and font-hinting\r\n\r\nDamn - missed the boat.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    did they do this in-house?!\r\nIf not, who did it for them?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-17 04:23:40'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'll point them over here.
  created: '2010-08-17 04:47:43'
- author:
    name: paul.irish
    picture: 118342
  body: "I'll come down on Wednesday to join the fun. :) \r\nLooking forward to it."
  created: '2010-08-17 05:17:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Unfortunately no TypeCon/ATypI for me, as curious as I am to see type on
    Kindle.\r\n\r\nsii -- <cite>hand-built, custom fonts and font-hinting</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    I am curious for details too.\r\nAs regards the hand-built, custom fonts and font-hinting,
    I assume that PDFs which come with their own fonts are a another story though.\r\n(Hand-built
    is lovely. I don't know of any font that is not hand-built.)&nbsp;&nbsp;:)\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-17 09:08:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> PDFs which come with their own fonts are a another story though.\r\n\r\nWell,
    any type that can be rendered at a predictable PPEM can be \"hand-made\" (more
    below) and Kindle has a -very useful- \"Actual Size\" zoom level, so...\r\n\r\n>
    I don't know of any font that is not hand-built.\r\n\r\n:-)\r\nOf course you're
    right, but the fact that an outline is only ever merely a \"request\", with software
    deciding what bitmap the viewer actually sees... It is only when you directly
    control the pixels* that what the viewer sees is truly hand-made.\r\n\r\n* At
    least to their maximum technical potential - nobody is going to be able to design
    for the organic blobs that make up a Kindle screen deep down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-17 14:27:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@KL: The Kindle renders the embedded fonts in PDFs at the appropriate size,
    yes.\r\n\r\n@Hrant: I am pretty sure they did not do the new fonts in-house.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-18 07:56:39'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: I think this was a great success. Thanks to Johns D and H for the time and
    effort they put into it. I'm sure it was a bit deep into the weeds for some, but
    it was great to have everyone in the same room to discuss it.
  created: '2010-08-19 08:27:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Will there be a summary (in case that the discussion has lead to anything
    new)?
  created: '2010-08-19 10:09:41'
- author:
    name: jdaggett
  body: "I've posted the slides from Wednesday's [[http://people.mozilla.org/~jdaggett/css3fontstypecon2010.pdf|CSS3
    Fonts discussion]] at Typecon.  Dave Crossland also posted a [[http://www.advogato.org/person/crossland/diary/1.html|nice
    summary with commentary]] on his blog.  Others with comments and/or feedback are
    welcome to send me mail directly, there's a link to my email listed on [[http://dev.w3.org/csswg/css3-fonts/|the
    spec.]]\r\n\r\nMany thanks again for Christopher Slye and John Hudson for helping
    set this up."
  created: '2010-08-20 14:52:32'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Many thanks!
  created: '2010-08-20 15:34:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I too would like thank the John D & H for putting this session together,
    and Dave for taking such copious notes. Have a great rest-o-'con and by the time
    everyone gets back to their own desks, I'll still be at mine, addressing the pop-corning
    issues we have discovered by actually doing it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-08-20 18:50:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Closing the loop the Kindle. From Monotype Imaging's most recent earnings
    call...\r\n\r\n\u201CWe continue to be encouraged by the opportunities we see
    in e-book readers. As the importance of easy to read text continues to be endorsed.
    Last month, Consumer Report gave its top rating to the Amazon Kindle, which uses
    our font solution. Readability was a key factor in the evaluation with the Kindle
    being recognized for its crisp readable text.\u201D\r\n\r\nMTI confirmed that
    they've not made any additional technical details public at this time. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-31 16:32:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks Simon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-31 16:42:05'
date: '2010-07-21 17:54:14'
node_type: forum
title: CSS3 Fonts Module briefing/dialogue pre-TypeCon

---
