---
author:
  name: cjm_drw
body: "Greeting everyone\r\n\r\nAll too often \u2018there are too many\u2019 or \u2018they
  all look the same\u2019 are amongst the frequent chants we hear from students of
  design (and not just beginners) when they are faced with the dilemma of choosing
  an appropriate typeface for a given piece of work.\r\n \r\nI am currently conducting
  researching into how designers carry out the process of typeface selection and would
  appreciate the forums input. So my question is this:\r\nWhat are the factors you
  consider when choosing a typeface?\r\n\r\nI am looking for substantial answers (I
  know this is cheeky), but would be grateful for any input and feedback\r\n\r\nMany
  thanks in advance\r\nChris\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Nowadays, the first thing I check is the capability of the font: glyphs coverage,
    weights, styles, opentype necessities/niceties, etc.'
  created: '2010-07-23 13:00:15'
- author:
    name: TypoJunkie
    picture: 112264
  body: "There are many factor that I consider (or at least one of many). Most often,
    I need the typeface to be relevant to the subject of the text. For a book about
    the British Museum, I chose Caslon (an English typeface from about the time the
    Museum was founded), for a car magazine I went with an American typeface.\r\n\r\nOther
    times, the capability of the typeface dictates the choice, as Riccard0 points
    out (weights, styles, etc).\r\n\r\nStill on other projects I go more with the
    feel of a typeface. If it's for a 'quirky' brand/subject, I'll choose a 'quirky'
    typeface, one which I feel communicates the feel of the brand/subject. Of course,
    how it looks is a big factor.\r\n\r\nSome typefaces were designed for specific
    purposes (signage, screen, etc) so that comes into play as well.\r\n\r\nThose
    are the ones I can write down so far. If any others pop to mind, I'll write some
    more.\r\n\r\nHope this helps."
  created: '2010-07-23 14:37:38'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: 'I have a printed list of my top 20 fonts (evenly split between serif and
    sans-serif) and I choose which one is most appropriate to the job. I came up with
    the list, based on tried and true workhorse fonts. Often, just the most popular
    choices available. I keep things as simple as possible, and as conservative as
    possible (which is demanded in the work I do.) A few simple questions leads me
    to the choice: Do I want lighter or darker? Old fashioned or modern? Compact or
    extended? My list covers the options. Only on special projects do I move away
    from the list and let myself have more fun in choosing a font. Sometimes I see
    a font I like and keep it in mind in case the right job comes along. I developed
    this strategy because the speed at which I need to get projects finished is incompatible
    with the speed at which I make choices. Also, my taste is not the same as the
    aesthetic of the work I do. So- I keep the choices to a minimum.'
  created: '2010-07-23 14:40:59'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "I think BeauW is absolutely right.\r\n\r\nI worked in a large advertising
    company and all art directors, graphic designers and web artists have their 'bag-of-fonts'.
    Or their favorite, 'tried-and-true' selection of typefaces. Also, most agencies
    and companies have purchased a standard font library, in the past, and most have
    to work within that framework. When the occasional new job pitch or 'high priority'
    client comes along, or makes a special request, a requisition has to be submitted
    and approved before a new font family is added to the library. With all the different
    font licensing schemes around, companies tend to shy away from purchasing additional
    fonts, simply, because of the added cost. An art director really has to make a
    good case for wanting the font.\r\n\r\nIn any event, I would advise your students
    to just look through many different 'high-end' magazines, over a period od time,
    and see what they like. Put together a list of fonts and start from there. With
    experience, I'm sure they will experiment and try different solutions.\r\n\r\nSelecting
    an appropriate 'typeface' is just like selecting and appropriate outfit when you
    go out. The occasion dictates the choice.\r\n\r\nI hope this helps."
  created: '2010-07-23 15:09:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's like asking a contractor which power tool to use given that there are
    so many on the market.\r\n\r\nPart of it is context...the right tool for the particular
    job. A nice serif text face is likely the right tool to set a novel's copy in
    and a grungy block face is more likely useful in the context of a music magazine
    headline.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's preference. Some folks like x on this font and
    y on this font because, well, they just do.\r\n\r\nAnd like a good contractor,
    the key is to not have TOO many typefaces otherwise you end up with a mess and
    you spend more time finding the tool than using it. "
  created: '2010-07-23 15:17:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@cjm_drw: Research for who and to what end?'
  created: '2010-07-23 15:56:14'
- author:
    name: cjm_drw
  body: "@ Christopher Dean: It is research for an MA with a view to being a pedagogic
    methodology. I teach at Further Education level, but I don't want this to influence
    anyone\r\n\r\n@ everyone who has contributed so far: many thanks\r\n\r\nI am not
    around for the rest of the weekend, so don't think ill of me if I don't respond
    to any questions you have, I will check in on Sunday evening GMT\r\n\r\nAnd thanks
    again"
  created: '2010-07-23 16:11:56'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Where are you studying?
  created: '2010-07-23 17:22:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...there are too many ... faced with the dilemma of choosing an appropriate
    typeface</em>\r\n\r\nA dilemma involves two options.\r\nAlthough a significant
    percentage of people follow the sloppy understanding that it means many options,
    there are enough hardliners (like myself) to warrant the strict usage.\r\n\r\nI
    favour the \"historical allusion\" method (a term first used by DB Updike), whereby
    the historical style of a layout should match the historical era in which a typeface
    was designed. Also, if the content is historical, the layout and typeface should
    allude to the appropriate era."
  created: '2010-07-23 21:17:02'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "I think I consider a host of characteristics for a potential typeface: Technical
    requirements (suitability for the medium, number of weights and widths, OpenType
    features), historical connotations or denotations (per Nick), temperament (when
    it can be divined), ability to pair with other typefaces used, and comments I've
    heard about it -- many times from this forum. But the decision as to which criterion
    to use tends to be spontaneous and unpredictable. On most occasions, something
    about the project's brief or the past design will trigger a thought of a genre
    or particular typeface. The key is to have a broad enough knowledge of the type
    world to connect the brief to a typeface.\r\n\r\nAs I've learned about and used
    more typefaces, I've also realized that, many times, there are numerous good options.
    While my tendency is to look through the online offerings of foundry after foundry,
    I've learned that eight or nine times out of ten, my first instinct ends up being
    what I stick with.\r\n\r\nFor example, a magazine I'm working on now differentiates
    itself from others by publishing fiction and poetry in addition to reportage.
    This led me to the idea of a suite, with a paired serif and sans. I had seen FF
    Yoga, as promoted by Fontshop, and that was my first thought. I looked through
    a bunch of other super-families (helped in part by Fontshop's <a href=http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/category/>FontLists</a>),
    but Yoga still seemed to fit the magazine best, as a bit literary but appropriately
    unusual. In the time since that initial decision, I've realized that fiction and
    poetry are not equal partners with reportage, but the choice still seems sound.
    As the direction has shifted to become more of a take-off on book design, I've
    now gone looking for a contrasty Garamond for accents. I need a face in the Garamond
    genre to cement the literary quality, and it has to be rather sharp and fine to
    contrast enough with the bluntness of Yoga."
  created: '2010-07-24 17:55:11'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: Also, Michael Bierut's <a href=http://www.designobserver.com/observatory/entry.html?entry=5497>"Thirteen
    Ways of Looking at a Typeface"</a> is a useful summary of the characteristics
    one can use to choose type.
  created: '2010-07-24 17:56:53'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Well, whatever you choose should solve it's task. Something that is supposed
    to work as body copy on screen have other requirements than in a magazine, a book
    or on a newspaper page although few would recognize the difference looking at
    blown up samples.\r\n\r\nMore than often I find myself drawing the fonts I need."
  created: '2010-07-24 19:50:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nMost of the above comments I agree with. Yet, I am surprised
    that so many people have written so much without explicitly mentioning quality:
    for 95% or more of the things I do, I'm only interested in typefaces that meet
    a minimum bar for quality. That includes outline construction, spacing, kerning,
    consistency, and sometimes hinting.\r\n\r\nI expect many folks will say \"of course,
    that goes without saying,\" but I suspect you want even these implicit factors
    made explicit....\r\n\r\nSee also a blog post I wrote almost five years ago, which
    still seems equally relevant:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/12/quality_in_type.html\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-07-24 20:57:23'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Glyph coverage is really important for what I do. If I am working on a book
    that requires all sorts of obscure phonetics characters then my choices are pretty
    limited. The same applies for mathematics. Also there\u2019s the question of whether
    what I\u2019m doing will be used mostly on screen or in print, which strongly
    influences the fonts I use."
  created: '2010-07-25 05:55:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I start with two assumptions: (1) not every character/feature I'll need will
    be in the font, and (2) some of the kerning-spacing in the font won't be to our
    taste. That means permission for us (the end user) to modify the font is important,
    either explicitly in the EULA, or by having an arrangement with the designer/seller.\r\n\r\nI
    should note that \"not every character\" can mean something as simple as an extra
    lower-case \"f\" with a different terminal or right sidebearing (or both), so
    it can be controlled at the word boundry. Little details in the font can save
    hours of time with composition of a text, and of course, improve the appearance.
    \"Type\" has become complex enough that workflow issues are a factor.\r\n\r\nThis
    is in addition to other things noted above, of course.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nRich
    Hendel's <cite>On Book Design</cite> spends some time on factors designers consider
    when selecting typefaces."
  created: '2010-07-25 13:16:00'
- author:
    name: cjm_drw
  body: "@ Christopher Dean: I am studying and teach at London College of Communication
    where I have already had some interesting and, often, entertaining feedback for
    this subject. I have posted here to hopefully get a broader and worldwide response
    - contrary to the beliefs held by many an LCC academic (I include myself here
    too), there is life outside LCC...\r\n\r\nMany thanks to all who have contributed
    so far\r\n\r\nWhat do we think of the semiotic, semantic and rhetorical influences
    that we attribute to typefaces... how this adds to or interferes with our typeface
    choices?"
  created: '2010-07-25 20:55:01'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "<em>What do we think of the semiotic, semantic and rhetorical influences
    that we attribute to typefaces... how this adds to or interferes with our typeface
    choices?</em>\r\n\r\nChris, could you elaborate on this? It's an interesting question,
    but I'm not quite sure what kind of answers you're looking for."
  created: '2010-07-25 23:16:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the semiotic, semantic and rhetorical influences that we attribute
    to typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm glad you said \"influences\" and \"attribute\".\r\nMany
    people consider letter forms have inherent cultural qualities.\r\nThe request
    at Typophile is often for such things as a \"friendly yet authoritative\" face,
    or a \"feminine\" script."
  created: '2010-07-26 00:29:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Two good reads:\r\n\r\nEhses, H. (1976). Design Papers 1. <em>Semiotic Foundation
    of Typography</em>. NSCAD University. Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.\r\n\r\nEhses,
    H., Lupton, E. (1988). <em>Design papers 5. Rhetorical handbook: an illustrated
    manual for graphic designers</em>. NSCAD University. Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 04:54:36'
- author:
    name: kamleshjangid
    picture: 120430
  body: "I feel that Subject and purpose of the design is the most important and one
    should choose the typeface accordingly. A graphic designer should have its own
    list of best typefaces as many of us believe that. \r\n\r\nBut sometimes all graphic
    designers and art directors will land up with same typefaces to use in particular
    designs, so in the overcrowded design world you can experiment with typefaces.\r\n\r\nI
    also realized that choosing a typeface for advertising design is very much different
    from graphic design.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 10:00:11'
- author:
    name: cjm_drw
  body: "@ auricfuzz: \r\nSemantic: in what ways a typeface represents the link between
    the spoken (linguistic) and the physical (visual) meaning of words \u2013 how
    it visually \u2018speaks\u2019 to its reader?\r\nSemiotic: what significance does
    a typeface have when portraying a message to an audience and how it visually achieve
    this? (type honoring its content, type as signifier, type as image)\r\nRhetorical:
    can the look of a typeface affect, persuade, influence etc. the way a viewer interacts
    with a piece of design?\r\n\r\nThis is going off-piste a little, but still very
    relevant\r\n\r\n@ Christopher Dean: Thanks I've managed to find Design Papers
    5 (as you say; a good read), but not 1 - any ideas where I may find this please?\r\n\r\n@kamleshjangrid:
    why would you say 'choosing a typeface for advertising design is very much different
    from graphic design.' Surely the same decision making process applies to both?"
  created: '2010-07-26 14:40:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I contacted the <a href="http://nscad.ca/en/home/shopsandservices/supplystore.aspx">NSCAD
    University Art Supply Store</a>, +1 902 494 8176, they have four copies left and
    will ship internationally (with a credit card I believe).
  created: '2010-07-26 17:26:55'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Dartboard. Blindfold. :)
  created: '2010-07-26 18:39:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the semiotic, semantic and rhetorical influences that we attribute
    to typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're focusing on the wrong user in your definitions.\r\nIt
    is to the professional user -- art directors, graphic designers and typographers
    -- that types have most meaning.\r\n\r\nFor readers, it is the finished document
    that signifies. The tools with which it is constructed mean very little.\r\n\r\nIt's
    difficult to draw analogies between type and other areas of design.\r\nIs a typeface
    a tool, a material, or an ingredient? \r\n\r\nFundamentally, the signification
    of a typeface is determined by the typographer, in varying the typographic parameters
    of size, style (U&lc, all caps, italic, etc), weight, leading, line length, spacing,
    alignment, colour, and rotation. Textual content and juxtaposition with pictures
    further alter the meaning of a typeface, as does the output medium (print, pixels,
    posters, etc).\r\n\r\nThis is not to deny that there may be some small cultural
    quality of a typeface which the lay reader responds to in a direct manner, but
    its importance is generally overblown.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 20:47:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Using a dartboard just puts the question back one step. How do you select
    what fonts are on the dartboard?
  created: '2010-07-27 00:42:31'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: "1) I start with an analysis of requirements (non latin yes/no, special characters
    or symbols yes/no, one family / more families, number of weights, typographic
    features yes/no, oldstyle / lining / tabular figures etc.)\r\n\r\n2) Then I try
    to find a general type style(s) matching with my design concept. I use a 2D \"space\":
    the horizontal axe describes the fonts from hand made (left) to geometric (right),
    the vertical axe is for extravagant fonts (top) and boring \"invisible\" typefaces
    (bottom). This chart helps me think what I really need for a particular project.\r\n\r\n3)
    The third step is to make a list of type families in the desired category matching
    with my technical requirements. I use my memory, MyFonts, printed catalogs and
    friends.\r\n\r\n4) Now I try to limit the long list to a couple of finalists.
    I consider the aesthetic values, consistency of letter shapes, quality of kerning,
    diacritical marks, overall color of the typeface, how the italic and bold work
    in the text, the economical aspect (sometimes I have to save paper, sometimes
    I am asked to make to book as thick as possible), price of a font.\r\n\r\n5) I
    usually end up with two or three favorites. I try to test them, I print samples.
    When working on a large projects (newspaper, magazine), real offset printing tests
    are necessary. In the case I don't have selected fonts, I contact type foundries
    asking for a temporary licence; if they don't offer this kind of service, I asked
    them to open my InDesign file, change to default font to requested font and send
    back as PDF. If they won't provide it, they are out of the game.\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-27 14:30:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I asked them to open my InDesign file, change to default font to requested
    font and send back as PDF. If they won't provide it, they are out of the game.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nWe
    do this upon request all the time. We also offer temp licenses, but most times
    this font swap and pdf is the fastest way to provide service.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2010-07-27 15:01:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What are the factors you consider when choosing a typeface?\r\n\r\nFirst,
    the name must end in an \"A\".\r\n\r\nSecond, it must not exist. \r\n\r\nThird,
    no one can be working on it. \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-07-27 21:23:49'
- author:
    name: cjm_drw
  body: "Thanks for those who have contributed so far, (however existential).\r\n\r\n@
    Nick Shinn: I fundamentally agree with your analysis of how much a typeface doesn't
    matter to the non-typographer, but I believe a reader accesses and recognises
    the differences in type-forms more than we think. Cognition of typefaces recently
    played a significant role in a couple of ad campaigns on the London Underground,
    without the lay person recognising the typefaces used the ads would have failed.
    Also in a conversation with the designer of the Daily Telegraph I was told the
    biggest complaint from their readership about a proposed re-design was the choice
    of typefaces to used. But I'm drifting off into 'should type be invisible' and
    'clothes that words wear' territory... which are also factors\r\n\r\n@ Christopher
    Dean: Thanks for the info"
  created: '2010-07-28 14:06:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Cognition of typefaces recently played a significant role in a couple
    of ad campaigns on the London Underground...</em>\r\n\r\nPlease describe further."
  created: '2010-07-28 15:21:56'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "re \"Cognition\u2026\" a reference would be great."
  created: '2010-07-28 18:38:14'
- author:
    name: cjm_drw
  body: "By cognition I mean the ability to draw upon inherited knowledge; without
    knowing the typefaces used by the companies the ads are parodying the 'reader'
    would not understand the significance that the typeface is inferring.\r\nIn the
    Dixon ads the typefaces for John Lewis and Selfridges are used for maximum effect.
    Likewise the Tubeorfalse campaign is relying on a visual awareness of the London
    Underground typestyle, but to a lesser extent because the fabric the slogans are
    made from also denotes the seating fabric and patterns used on different tube
    trains\r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2009/september/dixons\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tfl.gov.uk/tfl/corporate/modesoftransport/tube/history/"
  created: '2010-07-29 21:41:13'
date: '2010-07-23 12:45:03'
node_type: forum
title: How do YOU choose a typeface?

---
