---
author:
  name: uzapucax
  picture: 111034
body: "Hi guys,\r\n\r\nI am designing a magazine/book for a Psychiatric Association.
  The magazine has 100 pages and is mostly for reading long articles. The layout and
  design is quite \"serious\". I am trying to make more interesting while keeping
  its formal style. The client want to use Garamond. \r\n\r\nNow the question are:\r\n\r\n1)
  What size and leading of Garamond do you suggest?  I thought of Garamond 11 pt (or
  11.5 pt) with 14 pt leading. Take in account that is for people over 40 or 50 years
  and older who reads a long articles and usually complaint to magazine with small
  minimal type size. \r\n\r\n2) Any suggestions of margins for A4 size? Here is my
  sample. \r\n\r\nMARGINS are:\r\nTop: 24 mm (0.944 inches)\r\nBottom: 16 mm (0.629
  inches)\r\nInside: 16 mm (0.629 inches) \r\nOutside: 16 mm (0.629 inches)\r\n\r\n\r\nSAMPLE
  LAYOUT JUST FOR TEXT \r\n(80% of the magazine layout)\r\n\r\na) 2 columns and a
  half for footnotes (not centered)\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=1ubahhmQILBkStaBYbvuPg36qkihGh\r\n\r\nb)
  2  columns centered.\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=194nBRVVNHHbPqMoROMsKz9ZaF0J0\r\n\r\n\r\nFOR
  TEXT AND IMAGES \r\n(10% of the magazine, not the usual layout)\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=1zrTpAY4Bqf6PqAmPQvfJeiqlhTum\r\n\r\n\r\nSorry
  for the long post, but i want to show the full info here.\r\n\r\nThanks for any
  help or info!\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nSebs\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Generally speaking, optical center is slightly above actual center, so your
    top margin should be smaller than your bottom margin and, according to general
    proportional rules, the outside margin should be slightly larger than the inside
    margin.\r\n\r\nGaramond is a reasonable choice but, given the presbyopic nature
    of your readers (like me), ITC Garamond Condensed (larger x-height) at 12/14 might
    be preferable...or not."
  created: '2010-07-25 23:51:57'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "General approach is good and adequate to contents. This kind of publication
    does not let much room for artistic or creative design, it needs to be technical
    and simple as yours.\r\n\r\nInside margin may need to be larger due to binding.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Oldnick: top margin must be smaller and bottom larger. If you will
    have footnotes, this is even more needed because you have more graphic elements
    at the bottom of page.\r\n\r\nGaramond has a rather small x-height. So 11.5/14pt
    or 12/15pt will produce better reading experience to your public. With larger
    text you may use just two wider columns.\r\n\r\nScientific publications usually
    adopt footer indication about article title and/or author name and/or edition
    number and date."
  created: '2010-07-26 00:15:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think an old style like Garamond is sufficiently \"serious\" for
    psychiatry these days.\r\nPerhaps in the days of Freud and Jung.\r\nBut now, the
    mainstream of psychiatry is more scientific, in the sense of being concerned with
    prescribing particular drugs for particular conditions, not psychotherapy on a
    couch.\r\nSo I would recommend something less literary and old-fashioned.\r\nNo
    doubt your client has a reason for wanting Garamond, but it is a wrong reason."
  created: '2010-07-26 00:40:41'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "Hi guys thanks for the fast replies...very interesting tips indeed. \r\n\r\nI
    think i get what you say about the botton margin being larger than the top one.
    Maybe to get closer to the idea of the good  proportion as Tschichold said in\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Van_de_Graaf_canon_in_book_design.svg\r\n\r\n\r\nRegarding
    your suggestions i made a couple of fast samples\r\n\r\nBody Type:Stemple Garamond
    LT. \r\nSize/Leading: 12/15 pt\r\n\r\nFootnotes: Myriad Pro\r\nSize/Leading: 10/13
    pt\r\n\r\n\r\n1) One column with good space at the bottom margin for footnotes.\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=1vLXsfXq53wk4dFEP5r2zIaiVzZL\r\n\r\n\r\n2)
    Two columns with good space at the bottom margin for footnotes. (the 2 columns
    have more design features to play with that a one column central paragraph i think).\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=1lhMQXECGovEpBPynEwKQQlSVt42J\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n3)
    Two columns with a vertical footnote.\r\nhttp://www.pixentral.com/show.php?picture=11ZwQYjxwKvUE12UM1h3bok6vZk76Y0\r\n\r\n\r\nSo
    what do you think you like the best?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI am sorry but my client is
    decided that the font has to be Garamond. There is a famous psychoanalytical essay
    of Lacan regarding Garamond Font, and even though it is not a good enough functional
    design reason to me but is my client fascination with this so Garamond will have
    to be. Later on what version of Garamond: Stemple or Adobe Garamond Pro. \r\n\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, i just found an interesting website with a Golden Section A4 Template
    with margins and grids. It could be interesting to give it a try.\r\nhttp://www.thegridsystem.org/2008/templates/indesign-a4-grid-system-6/\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    again for the insight on this, and keep commenting if you wish.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 01:34:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I think if they want something classic, that is fine. They are obviously more
    concerned about looking serious than trendy. If it's German, though, as in your
    sample, I wonder because of the relatively small x-height of Adobe Garamond, the
    caps are quite prominent in the sample you show. Would Sabon be better? Or the
    caption size of Garamond Premier Pro, set smaller, magazine style, as you have
    it?
  created: '2010-07-26 01:58:53'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Geometrical schemas to construct page margins are presented in detail by
    Robert Bringhurst in <em>Elements of Typographical Style</em>. van de Graaf's
    is one of them.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I never agreed about these schemas because they
    produces margins too large without a real logical reason. To have a geometrical
    division of the page is not enough (in my opinion, of course) to waste so much
    space on paper.\r\n\r\nGrid systems are useful to layouts with many elements,
    especially newspapers. In your case, this is not necessary.\r\n\r\nI did a sample
    using these margins:\r\nTop: 18mm, bottom: 24mm, outside: 16mm; inside: 30mm.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see it in [[http://if.pro.br/psy.png|small]] and [[http://if.pro.br/psy-full.png|full
    size]]. The InDesign file is also [[http://if.pro.br/psy.rar|available]].\r\n\r\nI
    used Berthold Garamond in 11.5/14pt because this is my favorite Garamond revival.
    It's just an example (text is from Deutsche Wikipedia page about Psychiatry)."
  created: '2010-07-26 03:44:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: If you/your client is set on a Garamond, consider [[http://www.mvbfonts.com/html/fonts/verdigris/pk_verdigris.htm|MVB
    Verdigris]].
  created: '2010-07-26 09:01:51'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "@ William Berkson\r\nthanks for the tip. Sorry but i didn't understand very
    well what you said about \"I wonder because of the relatively small x-height of
    Adobe Garamond, the caps are quite prominent in the sample you show\". In the
    next sample i did use Stemple Garamond instead of Adobe Garamond Pro (OTF).\r\n\r\n@Freiberger
    \r\nThanks a lot for the good advice on Geometrical Scheme on pages and for actually
    doing a full example. The jpg are pretty good to have a good idea of what you
    said but for some reason InDesign will not let me open the file since it ask me
    many plugins...that is strange. Do you have Indesign CS4 or CS5? Berthold Garamond
    in 11.5/14pt looks very sharp. Thanks 1000 for doing the example.\r\n\r\n@ Frode
    frank, MVB Verdigris, looks quite nice...do you think the client might tell the
    difference compared to Garamond?\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 10:10:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sorry, I didn't look closely. The Stemple Garamond seems to have even more
    prominent caps than Adobe Garamond. I guess that's why I noticed them in your
    sample. \r\n\r\nMVB Verdigris is very good. The italic is different from the Granjon
    styles used with most Garamonds, but it's unusually readable for an italic.\r\n\r\nSabon
    is a Garamond\u2014it is named after a student of Garamond.  \r\n\r\nIf you are
    going away from Garamond, I can't resist mentioning my own Williams Caslon, the
    italic of which is currently used here in the titles on Typophile. It also has
    a serious look, but more approachable.  "
  created: '2010-07-26 10:33:09'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: From the [[http://typophile.com/node/12481|Garamond wiki]]. It depends on
    your client. Why did they ask for a Garamond?
  created: '2010-07-26 11:39:58'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: There is a well known essay from the famous philosopher/psychologist Lacan
    on the Garamond Font and even though it is not a good enough design reason to
    me the client like the magazine to be in Garamond honoring the psychologist master
    work.
  created: '2010-07-26 12:21:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Well, that sounds ok, but it also leaves open the possibility of using a contemporary
    rendering of Garamond like Verdigris in my opinion. [[http://www.creativepro.com/article/dot-font-a-new-face-for-small-text|Here's]]
    a critique on it, btw. I have no stakes in this, I just happen to think it's a
    great typeface.
  created: '2010-07-26 12:35:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The term "font" is refering to the actual software file, not the design. The
    philosopher's essay was likely on the "typeface".
  created: '2010-07-26 12:37:02'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: How many footnotes do you expect to have and what will be their function (will
    they be long parenthetical explanations or brief citations, for example)? The
    use of Myriad 10/13 for footnotes with Stempel or Adobe Garamond 12/15 seems odd
    to me, because if there is a lot of footnote on the page, the Myriad will look
    dominant. Myriad 10 has almost the same x-height as Adobe Garamond 12 (and I think
    the x-height of Stempel Garamond is about the same), and being sans Myriad is
    denser. If you will have a lot of footnote text, it would be much simpler to use
    a Garamond for both, using different optical sizes.
  created: '2010-07-26 14:38:09'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "@frode frank\r\nyou are right the essay is on the \"Typeface\". I will try
    to get a hold on it, it seems complicated but interesting.\r\n\r\n@archaica\r\nyou
    are right on target. Myriad 10/13 for footnootes is too big. I don't know how
    many footnotes will appear but nevertheless Myriad 10 pt is way too strong visually.
    I will change it to Garamond as you said. "
  created: '2010-07-26 14:52:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There is a famous psychoanalytical essay of Lacan regarding Garamond
    Font, and even though it is not a good enough functional design reason to me but
    is my client fascination with this so Garamond will have to be. </em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    if I had a client who specified Garamond on my behalf, citing as radical a figure
    as Lacan, I would be sure to use <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/itc/garamond/lit/\">Tony
    Stan's version</a>, set very large without much leading.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-26 16:07:45'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "@ Nick Shinn\r\nThanks for good advice! I checked Tony Stan's version and
    it says \"ITC Garamond Light\" is that right? I read in some forums - i don't
    know what is the reason - that people speak with certain disdain about the ITC
    Garamond versions. For example, Michael Bierut, but his dislike is mostly a matter
    of guts without any rational reason to it.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designobserver.com/observatory/entry.html?entry=2577\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    what large size would you recommend for body text? I tried 12/14 pt and look interesting
    but i have not made any Printing Test yet."
  created: '2010-07-26 16:36:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...people speak with certain disdain about the ITC Garamond versions...</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is indeed snobbery directed at ITC Garamond.\r\nIt is said by some that a face
    with such a large x-height has no business appearing in book text.\r\nITC Garamond
    was also extremely popular in commercial work (the old \"trade\" stigma) in the
    1970s and 80s, as well as being Apple's display face (in the Condensed version),
    where it acquired the negative connotation of being the face of desktop publishing
    in the 1980s, when DTP signified cheap and nasty typography.\r\n\r\nHowever, if
    your client is going to challenge you with a Lacanian peccadillo, I would say
    that warrants a non-conformist response.\r\n\r\nFor the exact size and leading,
    and whether you choose Light or Regular weight, experiment and trust your judgement,
    but in my opinion the Light is far more interesting. I prefer it without much
    leading, as the extenders are so short.\r\n\r\nWith Light for text and Book for
    footnotes, fixing the optimum relationship could help structure your page."
  created: '2010-07-26 17:35:47'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "@Nick Shinn \r\n\r\nThanks for a great historical explanation on why ITC
    Garammond is look down. As far i can see there is no real functional or aesthetic
    \ reason (as could be the case for top of the chart most hated type Comic Sans...haha).\r\n\r\nI
    will try the light version for body text and book for footnotes with different
    leading and compared to other Garamonds (Berthold, Stempler and Adobe Garamond
    Pro OTF) to see how they look.\r\n\r\nCheers,"
  created: '2010-07-26 21:46:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: ITC Garamond is a) hideous and b) not Garamond, and no amount of nostalgia
    for 70s and 80s advertising justifies its continued existence let alone use. This
    isn't snobbery, this is full-on hatred.
  created: '2010-07-27 00:45:16'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Last time I checked MVB had a very restrictive EULA, not permitting to publish
    a PDF online set in any of their fonts, without a prior special agreement with
    MVB. Keep this in mind if your client needs online publishing. I mention it because
    you said something about a masters paper, and if the university is going to host
    his thesis for public access online, then he could get into troubles. \r\n\r\nIf
    it should be a Garamond, then Sabon should be considered too. Minion is not officially
    a Garamond but to my amateur eye it looks close enough, slightly more condensed,
    slightly higher x-hight, which brings it closer to the feel of Times New Roman,
    without being too high in contrast and definitely more and old-style typeface
    than TNR. "
  created: '2010-07-27 00:52:22'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Perhaps Nick is making a subtle joke, hinting that Lacan, like ITC Garamond,
    hasn't been taken seriously since the 70s or 80s....
  created: '2010-07-27 02:13:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just some notes. I'm surprised nobody has mentioned it, but there are two
    general \"Garamonds.\" Haul out your Bringhurst. Quick synopsis, not entirely
    accurate: One tradition is more or less out of the Garamond foundry. The other
    is the work of the French Huguenot, Jean Jannon -- Garamond No. 3, Monotype Garamond
    being prime examples. Tongue partly in cheek, the Jannon variants seem perfect
    for psychology. Sadly, the digital versions of Garamond No. 3 and Monotype Garamond
    are lacking.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI tried to get Stempel Garamond to work, first
    with the Linotron 202, and later wth PostScript. Miserable font. Sidebearings
    wrong, letterfit poor. Well, maybe I'm just squawking because I couldn't fix it.
    Blow to the ego. Letterforms (as oppose to fit) are beautiful.\r\n\r\nAs John
    Hudson said (but less crudely), ITC Garamond didn't even get hind teat, it got
    pushed clean off. No nourishment at all.\r\n\r\nSabon Next isn't Sabon, but it
    is a pretty nice Garamond.\r\n\r\nA lot of the revivals don't look good printed
    offset, esp. direct to plate, which is how yo'll be printing the magazine, I imagine.\r\n\r\nIf
    it has to have the name \"Garamond,\" that is, if Sabon Next is out, Adobe Garamond
    is probably it. But take a look at Adobe Garamond Premier Pro, a different font
    than Adobe Garamond.\r\n\r\nFWIW"
  created: '2010-07-27 02:35:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't agree with Nick that the controversy over ITC Garamond for text is
    just a matter of history\u2014at least that's not the view of a lot of the critics.
    Do a google search on Typophile for ITC Garamond and you will see a lot of threads
    debating it. I liked particularly Carl Crossgrove's analysis of its defects, but
    I can't find the thread now.   "
  created: '2010-07-27 03:03:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Sebastian,\r\n\r\nI made the InDesign sample with CS5. Probably you're using
    an older version and thus got error messages. I did other versions: ID markup
    from [[http://if.pro.br/psy-cs5.idml|CS5]] and [[http://if.pro.br/psy-cs4.idml|CS4]],
    which may be opened with both. And also an [[http://if.pro.br/psy-cs3.inx|interchange
    CS3]] version. Hope one of these will work.\r\n\r\nAs you said the font was already
    chosen, I did not talk about this. But others pointed Garamond has many cuts (and
    there is also Adobe Garamond Premier and Simoncini Garamond, not cited until now).
    Bitstream had four cuts (American, Classical, Elegant and Original Garamond) but
    I guess these are just copies from others. So you may choose between seven cuts,
    besides revivals with other names as MVB Verdigris.\r\n\r\nAs nowadays Psychiatry
    uses a lot of Biochemical, you may consider how the numbers of all these Garamond
    work with technical information present in the articles. Superiors and inferiors
    may be need to Mathematical and Chemical formulas. Some OT features, like arbitrary
    fractions, could also be an issue. Old style numbers are more elegant than lining
    ones. But if you have many numbers in a text, I think old style ones do not works
    so well.\r\n\r\nTo footnotes, it would be better to remain with the same font
    used in main text \u2013maybe with a different cut, as Nick suggested."
  created: '2010-07-27 03:40:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>I don't agree with Nick that the controversy over ITC Garamond
    for text is just a matter of history.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not what I said.\r\nI
    said some people don't think [present tense] it appropriate for book text, and
    that ALSO, historically, it acquired a stigma.\r\nI didn't connect those statements.\r\nJohn's
    hatred is something else again. \r\n\r\nI attempted to explain the \"disdain\"
    Sebastian had noted, by referring to when it was ridiculously popular; today that
    widespread contempt is exhibited towards Papyrus, Comic Sans, Arial and Helvetica,
    but ITC Garamond still has some of its old reputation with those who remember,
    such as Michael Beirut, as does its contemporary, ITC Souvenir. \r\n\r\nSo really
    Bill, what controversy is there now over ITC Garamond? It's so little used today,
    the outcry by purists over ubiquitous travesty is long gone. \r\n\r\n@David: <em>Perhaps
    Nick is making a subtle joke...</em>\r\n\r\nI'd hope there is some wit in matching
    Lacan with ITC Garamond.\r\nThat's as good a starting point for a journal design
    as any -- whether it results in a success is for the typographer to work out.\r\nI'm
    not prejudiced against Lacan, or ITC Garamond if one <em>must</em> have a Garamond,
    although of course an original new typeface would be better.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-27 05:45:56'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: "@Nick: <em>whether it results in a success is for the typographer to work
    out.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess it's true that \"Great artists suffer for the people.\"
    But I'm holding out for your second suggestion."
  created: '2010-07-27 06:50:07'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "Interesting thread. Here's my two cents -\r\n\r\nSince the common opinion
    about ITC Garamond is that it works well as a display face, not so much as a text
    face, Nick Shinn's suggestion of using Tony Stan's typeface seemed to me more
    like a cultural taunt - something like reviving a typical late Seventies typeface
    (an era focused on postmodernism / humanities / cultural studies / fascination
    for European philosophy) for a magazine written by Lacan oriented psychiatrists,
    than a *real* typographical proposal. But maybe that was just my impression.\r\n\r\nIf
    I had to set a magazine like this in a Garamond, I would choose Adobe Garamond
    Pro, set in two columns and with a very tight leading. Other suggestions of contemporary
    serifs based on Garamond shapes are Epic by TypeTrust and Augereau by George Abrams."
  created: '2010-07-27 08:31:20'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "Another contemporary rendition of the Garamond lineage comes to mind: Montrachet
    by Lars Bergquist, also available with its display companion Monteverdi in a cheaper
    package:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fountaintype.com/typefaces/montrachet\r\nhttp://www.fountaintype.com/typefaces/monteverdi\r\nhttp://www.fountaintype.com/packages/4-mountaineer-kit"
  created: '2010-07-27 11:45:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Since the common opinion about ITC Garamond is that it works well as
    a display face, not so much as a text face, Nick Shinn's suggestion of using Tony
    Stan's typeface seemed to me more like a cultural taunt ... than a *real* typographical
    proposal.</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly, my suggestion may be taken as a taunt to the
    codgers who can't see past their own reality, but I am dead serious about it.
    \r\nIf there is any merit in taking the tone of this document from Lacan, it must
    be wrong to opt for a dreary \"classic\" typeface.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I
    must admit to not having read his essay on Garamond.\r\nHas anybody here?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-27 16:44:26'
- author:
    name: uzapucax
    picture: 111034
  body: "Thanks for the various interesting comments that make this tread a very good
    learning experience. \r\n\r\n@Freiberger  \r\nthanks 1000 for the new file in
    Indesign. I could open fine and started playing around with some different Garamond
    cuts that i have to check them how that might look. By the way, these psychiatric
    do not use much formulas and numbers. They are more on the theoretical side.\r\n\r\n\r\n@charles_e\r\nI
    might give it a try to Sabon as well.  I didn't got why did you have so much trouble
    to make Stempel Garamond to work right?\r\n\r\n\r\n@archaica \r\n<em>\"Perhaps
    Nick is making a subtle joke, hinting that Lacan, like ITC Garamond, hasn't been
    taken seriously since the 70s or 80s....\"</ em> \r\n\r\nI happen to work closely
    with a lot of people from the psychoanalytical profession and intellectuals and
    Lacan is well respected in these European circles. I don't know too much about
    how is Lacan consider in the US were Behavioral Psychology is king. \r\n\r\nOn
    another subject i am designer formed on the Modernism School ideals and love its
    attitude toward design matters. I feel that Post Modernism (not in film or writing
    but definitely in graphic design and architecture like David Carson or Robert
    Venturi) is mostly vacuous to me. Post Moderns look to me like the rebellious
    adolescents sons of Modernist Parents who have no sense of direction and very
    little legacy. Just a passing stage as adolescence finally is. Too radical for
    political correctness? maybe right.\r\n\r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn \r\nYou have many interesting
    thoughts besides the typographic field. I am not quite sure i understood all of
    your reasoning when you say \r\n\r\n<em>\"If there is any merit in taking the
    tone of this document from Lacan, it must be wrong to opt for a dreary \"classic\"
    typeface.\"</ em> \r\n\r\n\r\nI do like your concept on <em>\"That's as good a
    starting point for a journal design as any\".</ em> The talented musician and
    producer Brian Eno -who you would not think creativity could be an issue- has
    this cards named Oblique Strategies \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oblique_Strategies\r\n\r\nto
    pull out in case of creativity stagnant an rare input to search for the unexpected
    results. "
  created: '2010-07-27 18:20:48'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: "I'm not aware of any essay by Lacan \"on Garamond,\" but he may mention it
    in passing in his <em>\xC9crits.</em> See, especially, <em>Section I: Le Sens
    de la lettre.</em> But he is discussing the Letter as some sort of (impenetrable)
    metaphor for unconscious being the Seat of language. I don't think it has anything
    to do with Garamond, specifically.\r\n\r\nIf there is, in fact, anything by Lacan
    specifically dealing with a typeface called Garamond, I would be quite surprised.\r\n\r\nBut,
    hey, all the more reason..."
  created: '2010-07-27 18:44:21'
- author:
    name: Christopher Adams
    picture: 117894
  body: "Lacan mentions Garamond only once in his \xC9crits, in Seminar 5, page 501,
    in <cite>L'instance de la lettre dans l'inconscient</cite> (The Instance of the
    Letter in the Unconscious):\r\n\r\n::: <cite>Or la structure du signifiant est,
    comme on le dit commun\xE9ment du langage, qu'il soit articul\xE9.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Ceci
    veut dire que ses unit\xE9s, d'o\xF9 qu'on parte pour dessiner leurs empi\xE9tements
    r\xE9ciproques et leurs englobements croissants, sont soumises \xE0 la double
    condition de se r\xE9duire \xE0 des \xE9l\xE9ments diff\xE9rentiels derniers et
    de les composer selon les lois d'un ordre ferm\xE9.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Ces \xE9l\xE9ments,
    d\xE9couverte d\xE9cisive de la linguistique, sont les phon\xE8mes o\xF9 il ne
    faut chercher aucune constance phon\xE9tique dans la variabilit\xE9 modulatoire
    o\xF9 s'applique ce terme, mais le syst\xE8me synchronique des couplages diff\xE9rentiels,
    n\xE9cessaires au discerne\xADment des vocables dans une langue donn\xE9e. Par
    quoi l'on voit qu'un \xE9l\xE9ment essentiel dans la parole elle-m\xEAme \xE9tait
    pr\xE9destin\xE9 \xE0 se couler dans les caract\xE8res mobiles qui, <strong>Didots
    ou Garamonds se pressant dans les bas-de-casse</strong>, pr\xE9sentifient valablement
    ce que nous appelons la lettte, \xE0 savoir. la structure essentiellement localis\xE9e
    du signifiant.</cite>\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\n::: <cite>Now the structure of the signifier
    is, as is commonly said of language, that it is articulated.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>This
    means that its units-no matter where one begins in tracing out their reciprocal
    encroachments and expanding inclusions-are subject to the twofold condition of
    being reduced to ultimate differential elements and of combining the latter according
    to the laws of a closed order.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>These elements, the decisive
    discovery oflinguistics, arephonemes; we must not look for anyphonetic constancy
    in the modulatory variability to which this term applies. but rather for the synchronic
    system of differential couplings that are necessary to discern vocables in a given
    language. This allows us to see that an essential element in speech itself was
    predestined to flow into moveable type which, in <strong>Didots or Garamonds squeezing
    into lower-cases</strong>, renders validly present what I call the \"letter\"-namely,
    the essentially local\xADized structure of the signifier.</cite>\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nAt
    least they're not insisting on a Didot....."
  created: '2010-07-30 11:16:49'
date: '2010-07-25 23:21:17'
title: Suggestion on Garamond and A4 Margins

---
