---
author:
  name: ras574
body: How to pronounce the typeface "FUTURA"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: http://typophile.com/node/28051
  created: '2010-07-27 17:38:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Footoorah
  created: '2010-07-27 17:49:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> How to pronounce the typeface \"FUTURA\"\r\n\r\nSince \"futura\" is a Latin
    feminine adjective (futurus, futura, futurum, e.g. futura scriptura), it is pronounced
    in this way.\r\n\r\nsee 25th line from top in this book:\r\n\r\nhttp://books.google.de/books?id=_xr_GSXBbVwC&pg=PA236\r\n\r\nhttp://books.google.de/books?id=_xr_GSXBbVwC&pg=PA236&lpg=PA236&dq=%22futura+scriptura%22\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-27 18:11:45'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "No: For native English speakers, it\u2019s <cite>fyuCHUra</cite>, or, in
    IPA, [\u02CCfju\u02C8\u02A7(j)u\u02D0\u0279\u028C]. Palatalization is necessary
    in the first syllable to match <cite>future</cite>."
  created: '2010-07-27 18:54:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Few-ture-uh.
  created: '2010-07-27 19:08:56'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "joeclark:\r\n\r\n> No: For native English speakers\r\n\r\nAnd how would you
    have expected the native German speaker Paul Renner (who designed Futura) to pronouce
    the English word \"future\"?"
  created: '2010-07-27 19:12:09'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Few-ture-uh.\r\n\r\nThat's the way I've always heard it pronounced, and
    with the accent on the 2nd syllable."
  created: '2010-07-27 20:33:08'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Pronouncing it \u2018true to original\u2019 can convey professional knowledge,
    as well as pronouncing it like Johnny Doe can convey sheer ignorance.\r\nE.g.
    imagine a lecture on a true-to-original revival of a historical typeface by the
    creator who emphasises how much time went into research but at the same time pronounces
    all the names etc. like an expert in, say, cow-milking would? Would you believe
    him/her?\r\n\r\nThat said, what does \u2018true to original\u2019 mean? Do you
    say Garamond with a nasal? Or Sabon?\r\nBtw, how did Jan Tschichold pronounce
    Sabon?"
  created: '2010-07-28 13:08:09'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> what does \u2018true to original\u2019 mean\r\n\r\nFor better or worse,
    it's pretty common for pronounciations to change when words cross language borders.
    Heck, even within a country you can find significant differences from region to
    region due to regional accents.\r\n\r\nAnd I suspect that when U.S. words spread
    to other countries, the same thing happens and they pronounce them using their
    local accents. (An exception might be words that they constantly hear pronounced
    the original way in commercials or in news reports. For example, I suspect that
    \"McDonalds\" is pronounced the same everywhere.) "
  created: '2010-07-28 14:02:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>I suspect that \"McDonalds\" is pronounced the same everywhere</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    would be surprised! ;-)"
  created: '2010-07-28 14:10:59'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Joe, not all English native speakers will pronounce Futura like you do, and
    your analogy with 'future' doesn't necessarily hold.\r\n\r\nIn 'future', the historical
    cluster /tj/ ('t' followed by the 'y' sound) is changed to /t\u0283/ (the 'ch'
    sound) because it occurs in an unstressed syllable. This much is common to most
    dialects of English.\r\n\r\nHowever, when a historical /tj/ comes in a stressed
    syllable as it does in Futura, it is treated differently depending on dialect.
    In many American pronunciations, in fact, it is likely to turn into a plain /t/
    (i.e. 'tune' is pronounced identically to 'toon'), a phenomenon called yod-dropping.
    Others preserve the /tj/, and still others will turn it into /t\u0283/ (yod-coalescence).\r\n\r\nThe
    last alternative is not something really associated with North American English.
    Do you also pronounce 'Turing' and 'enduring' as 'CHOOR-ing' and 'in-JURE-ing'?
    If not, your pronunciation can only be explained as a back-formation from 'future'.
    If Futura followed the normal course of English phonological development, we would
    expect it to be pronounced 'few-TOOR-uh' by those who have yod-dropping after
    't'. I would expect 'few-CHOOR-uh' from someone who orders CHOO-na sandwiches,
    but it sounds jarring to me from a North American speaker.\r\n\r\nNick's suggestion
    of 'few-TURE-uh' is the best since it works for any speaker, whether they preserve,
    drop, or coalesce the yod."
  created: '2010-07-28 14:25:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I come from middle America and I pronounce it as Nick says, and have heard
    it this way. I''m impressed, Jongseong, I haven''t seen anyone writing about American
    pronunciation, though I suppose it must exist in linguistics literature. That''s
    right on. '
  created: '2010-07-28 19:13:55'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: 'In Italian, Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries it would be pronounced
    as Riccardo pointed: <em>footoorah</em>, directly derivated from Latin <em>futurus</em>.'
  created: '2010-07-28 21:45:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Yes, I must clarify I was talking about the pronunciation in English. Different
    languages have different conventions for pronouncing Latinate names. In English,
    there's a broad agreement on pronouncing these. It's more complicated for French
    names (e.g. Garamond, Sabon) because there is tradition of both anglicizing the
    pronunciation (think Napoleon) and trying to imitate the French pronunciation
    to varying degrees, often with several pronunciations co-existing.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    as you can tell I'm a bit of a phonetics enthusiast. After re-reading what I wrote,
    I'm not sure I'm entirely making sense to those not familiar with the jargon!\r\n\r\nWriting
    the pronunciation as 'few-TURE-uh' works because TURE will be interpreted as starting
    with a historical /tj/. Many (including most Americans) will pronounce it as TOUR,
    others as TYOOR or CHOOR, so this one spelling covers all the possibilities. My
    own English mostly follows the features of Northeast American pronunciation, but
    I have no yod-dropping after 't', i.e., I distinguish 'tune' and 'toon'. So I
    personally say few-TYOOR-uh."
  created: '2010-07-28 23:06:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Being from Illinois, I drop my 'yods' all over the place. I find it amusing
    that linguistics uses the Hebrew name for the 'y' sound\u2014as it also uses \"shwa\"
    for that sound. I wonder how that came about..."
  created: '2010-07-29 02:21:11'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "as simple minded as this sounds in the face of so much eddicated erudition,
    If you say it like you'd read it -- in what ever accent, language or dialect is
    spoken where you happer to live, you can't go wrong. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-29 03:25:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>I suspect that \"McDonalds\" is pronounced the same everywhere.)\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nBienvenue
    \xE0 McDo , monsieur ."
  created: '2010-07-29 03:32:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "When I go on holiday to Paris, I don't go on holiday to /p\u0251\u02C8ri/.
    I go to /p\xE6.\u0279\u026As/. But I go to the same place as a Frenchman who's
    going to /p\u0251\u02C8ri/. No-one's seriously trying to tell me that one of us
    has got that wrong?"
  created: '2010-07-29 14:25:47'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I don\u2019t agree with Jongseong. It\u2019s \u201Cfuture\u201D with different
    stress and an uh at the end. We are not discussing palatalization and assibilation
    in general, or, to say it another way, we are not discussing how New York Jews,
    Quebec French\u2013accented English-speakers, or dudes with a really gay accent
    would pronounce the word.\r\n\r\n\u201CFootoora\u201D is as incorrectly hypercorrect
    as <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/groups/neeecaarrrrragua/\" title=\"Flickr group\">white
    people pronouncing <cite>Nicaragua</cite></a>.\r\n\r\nDo you say \u201CParee\u201D
    for the largest city in France, too?"
  created: '2010-07-29 14:48:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "People take their cue for how to pronounce a word from how they've heard
    their peers say it, up to a point.\r\nWhen I was a young ad agency art director
    in the 1980s and Jerry Schoolenberg of Techni-Process used to call on me every
    week with specimens of the latest ITC faces or whatever, it was his implicit responsibility
    to fill me in on how to say new type names like Benguiat, or, for that matter,
    old ones like Univers, because he'd heard them already. The trades had been bull
    pens for centuries, so there was nothing remotely \"gay\" in the way they pronounced
    words; they said them like they were written in their own language,-- rather like
    an English football commentator at the World Cup.\r\n\r\nSo, for all you hardcore
    butch type geeks out there, say it like its wrote, damn it!\r\nHowever, if you
    are more the <em>aficionado</em>, some kind of foreign accent will glamorize your
    persona, along with an expressive hand gesture.\r\n "
  created: '2010-07-29 15:48:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I suspect that \"McDonalds\" is pronounced the same everywhere\"\r\n\r\nI
    can't remember how many years it has been since I have seen ANY native English
    speakers working in McDonalds.  They are from every non-english speaking country
    in the world except the USA.  You are more likely to hear \"McDonalds\" pronounced
    with a middle eastern or Spanish accent than any other."
  created: '2010-07-29 16:07:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: You go to McDonalds?!  :)
  created: '2010-07-29 16:39:23'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>\u201CFootoora\u201D is as incorrectly hypercorrect as white people
    pronouncing Nicaragua.</cite>\r\n\r\nI had Latin for six years in school (a long
    time ago). I am in the same opinion as Riccardo and Uli. Footoorah! I think it
    is the nominalization of the adjective futura (femininum). I just don\u2019t know,
    how I should translate \u201Ctypeface\u201D into Latin \u2013 probably as construction
    of the plural of nota (notae). I assume, Paul Renner had the German word \u201CSchrift\u201D
    (which is femininum) in mind, when he used the feminine form of the adjective
    futurus. So Futura probably has to translate to the \u201Cfuture (typeface)\u201D
    or, in German, to \u201Cdie Zuk\xFCnftige\u201D (\u201Cdie zuk\xFCnftige Schrift\u201D).\r\n\r\n<cite>Do
    you say \u201CParee\u201D for the largest city in France, too?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    isn\u2019t comparable. \u201CParee\u201D is already the wrong pronunciation of
    Paris (the character from Greek mythology). As far as I remember the a in Paris
    (\u03A0\u03AC\u03C1\u03B9\u03C2) is long, when the character is meant. In German
    the name of the character from Greek mythology is differently pronounced than
    the name of the French main town."
  created: '2010-07-29 16:49:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Paris is a wrong example, because, historically, cities of note had different
    proper names in different languages. So, for example, Milano is Mailand in German,
    it\u2019s Milan in French and Milan in English. But, even if written the same,
    those are different words: one is French, thus pronounced according to french
    pronunciation, while the other is an English word, pronounced accordingly."
  created: '2010-07-29 17:26:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arno, neither German nor Latin (does anyone know how it was really pronounced?)
    sets the standard for English pronunciation of words introduced by Germans. And
    English doesn't set the standard for German, or Spanish, or Chinese pronunciation
    of words introduced by English or Americans. Neither can dictate to the other.
    \r\n\r\nDiversity, tolerance.   "
  created: '2010-07-29 17:27:38'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Diversity, tolerance.</cite>\r\n\r\nRespect, knowledge."
  created: '2010-07-29 17:33:20'
- author:
    name: jacobsievers
    picture: 118194
  body: Choose whichever finger you want to use to point to the moon. It's still just
    a finger.
  created: '2010-07-29 17:42:41'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<cite>\u201CFootoora\u201D is as incorrectly hypercorrect as white people
    pronouncing Nicaragua.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the countries I referred, <em>footoorah</em>
    is the pronounce because <em>futura</em> already exist as a regular word. In Portuguese,
    Italian and Spanish, futura is the feminine for the adjective future. \"Future
    situation\" become \"situa\xE7\xE3o futura\" (pt) or \"situacci\xF3n futura\"
    (es). As I said, it's a direct derivation from Latin <em>futurus</em>.\r\n\r\n<cite>Latin
    (does anyone know how it was really pronounced?)</cite>\r\n\r\nLatin heritage
    in many living languages gives a reliable idea of this. AFAIK, ancient pronounce
    is not an issue for neolatin languages."
  created: '2010-07-29 17:46:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\nIn my opinion Futura is a Latin word and therefore it should
    be prounounced in the Latin way. In the Latin word \u201Cnon\u201D the o is long
    for example. In English it is short, but it has become to an English word, while
    Futura is still Latin \u2013 like Minerva. I think, there is only one correct
    pronunciation of Minerva except from different Latin dialects, which probably
    have existed. But I am not a linguist."
  created: '2010-07-29 18:21:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<cite>In my opinion Futura is a Latin word and therefore it should be prounounced
    in the Latin way. [Arno Enslin]\r\n\r\nThe pronunciation of latin varies from
    country to country, as you can see on the corresponding wiki link\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latin_regional_pronunciation"
  created: '2010-07-29 18:28:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: let's call the whole thing off
  created: '2010-07-29 18:31:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: I like Uhdohbeh Uhpplecuhteuhns.
  created: '2010-07-29 18:33:06'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Good point, Arno. Agreed.\r\n\r\nMichel, regional variations does exist in
    any language. Even a <em>quasi</em> extinct language talked by <200 people, as
    some from Northwest America, has regional variations. Anyway, classical and vulgar
    Latin were well consolidated in most of Italic peninsule and there are not so
    much discussion about their main pronounce.\r\n\r\nThe article you referred focuses
    on Latin-derivated languages and Latin influence in other tongues."
  created: '2010-07-29 18:38:27'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Do you say \u201CParee\u201D for the largest city in France, too?</cite>\r\n\r\nJoe,
    you've misunderstood my whole point. I treated Futura like a normal English word
    from Latin. I wasn't suggesting that we apply a Classical Latin pronunciation,
    though others in this thread have.\r\n\r\nEnglish has lots of words from Latin,
    and there's a pattern to how they are pronounced. There are complex alternations
    to the vowels according to which syllables receive stress, but native speakers
    have mostly internalized these rules. So we can read a word like 'sesquicentennial'
    which we have never heard pronounced, but can reasonably guess that it would be
    pronounced sesk-wee-sen-TEN-ee-uhl, while 'sesquicentenary' would be sesk-wee-SENT-uh-nare-ee.
    I'm just applying these rules to derive that Futura would be pronounced few-TURE-uh
    in English, and at least based on this thread this is what many other native speakers
    have come up with.\r\n\r\nEnglish pronunciation being the complicated beast it
    is, your reasoning for your pronunciation (appealing to the pronunciation of a
    similar word) doesn't hold in general. 'Misery' isn't pronounced like 'miser'
    with an 'ee' at the end. Just out of curiosity, how do you pronounce 'century'
    and 'centurion'? Many North American speakers will have SEN-cher-ee for the former
    but sen-TOUR-ee-uhn for the latter. It is by a similar process that one would
    expect 'future' and 'Futura' to be pronounced FEW-cher and few-TOUR-uh for these
    speakers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-29 21:15:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Respect, knowledge.\r\n\r\nI am all in favor of both. \r\n\r\nKnowledge
    tells me that most native Germans and Italians and Japanese, etc, etc, who learn
    English after childhood will never pronounce most English words as a native Englishman\u2014or
    American\u2014does.\r\n\r\nRespect tells me I shouldn't be lecturing you when
    you use an English word when speaking your own language and pronounce it more
    closely to the way the word would be read using the rules and phonemes of your
    own language. These pronunciations become standard in the language, and those
    who affect a foreign accent for them sound odd or pretentious, and may not even
    be understood by other native speakers.  \r\n\r\nIt shows a lack of knowledge
    and respect to chastise or ridicule those who, when speaking their native language,
    pronounce foreign words more closely to their own native language.\r\n\r\nI know
    a fellow who is truly bilingual in Cantonese and \"Proper\" English English. When
    he uses Chinese words in English he completely butchers them in exactly the same
    way that the English do--a way that a Chinese speaker probably wouldn't even understand.
    When he speaks Chinese, his pronunciation is completely native. Why? Because he
    wants to be understood, and knows what he's doing. Knowledge and respect.  \r\n\r\nBy
    the way, when speaking German or French I would always say \"footoora\", and I'm
    told my accent is not too bad. --Unfortunately my knowledge of both of those languages
    is a lot worse than my accent! When speaking English I use my \"few-ture-a\".
    Why? Knowledge and respect. \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2010-07-29 21:31:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "William, great post. I agree 100%.\r\n\r\nJoe implicitly suggested his own
    pronunciation was the only correct one for English native speakers, and it is
    this statement that I'm disagreeing with as someone quite interested in the topic
    of English pronunciation. Since the original poster wanted to know, I've explained
    how I think most native speakers would pronounce the name.\r\n\r\nBut I recognize
    that Futura is not an everyday English word and that many pronunciations are possible.
    Joe's pronunciation of Futura, atypical as it may be for a speaker of his background
    (although I'm assuming a lot here just based on his being from Toronto), is not
    'wrong'. In fact, there is a certain sense and logic to each of the pronunciations
    suggested here.\r\n\r\nI've used wrong pronunciations for 'awry', 'sword', even
    'shepherd' at various points in my life, and am currently butchering French words
    every day while living in Paris. I make the effort to get my pronunciations right,
    and at the same time am understanding when others make mistakes. And as an English
    speaker still not quite used to the French pronunciations of English names, I
    can see why the traditional English pronunciation of Latin names sounds wrong
    to many non-English speakers here. We just have to recognize that we all have
    different traditions of pronouncing such names.\r\n\r\nBy the way, McDonald's
    is often just pronounced 'mahg-doh' (McDo) here in France."
  created: '2010-07-29 22:14:01'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Agreed.
  created: '2010-07-30 00:23:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "When the correct pronounciation is obscure and/or little-known, the wrong
    pronounciation communicates more effectively. People not familiar with the correct
    one, upon hearing it, may not know what you're talking about.\r\n\r\nAnd of course
    most native speakers of English will assume that Futura is pronounced like \"future\",
    but with an -a sound added at the end. They would not normally know that the face
    was designed by someone living in Europe whose native language was not English.
    Had the name \"Futura\" been coined by Madison Avenue, the wrong pronounciation
    would have been the real one."
  created: '2010-07-30 01:01:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John (quadibloc), the point is, pronouncing 'futura' as few-TURE-a in English
    is not a \"wrong\" pronunciation of a Latin word pronounced the German way. \r\n\r\nThe
    way a loan word is pronounced in the original language is NOT automatically the
    \"correct\" way in another language. Thus the The German way is not the standard
    for \"rightness\" in English.\r\n\r\nThat the point Jongseong and I have been
    arguing, Jongseong with a lot of knowledge of linguistics and English and American
    pronunciation. For example, the \"r\" in \"Futura\" spoken by Renner would be
    the guttural \"r\" of German, which is not a sound in English. So the word has
    to be adapted, in any case. What about in say, Cantonese, which I believe has
    no \"r\",([[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hong_Kong_Cantonese|see the Wikipedia
    article]]) do they have to say it the German way as well? "
  created: '2010-07-30 02:05:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My basic premis is to say it to communicate to your audience.  Years ago,
    I regularly went to a typesetter called Harvey. Harvey was from the old printing
    background--trade school, apprentice, journeyman. He was a printer by trade. He
    spoke the down to earth way. If i were asking him to set a job for me, I would
    say \"Fuewturra\" because that was the way he knew it and everyone else in the
    shop knew it. I once asked him to use \"Unayvare\" and he said, \"What?\", looking
    at me like I was from Neptune. I had slipped and used the pronunciation I had
    learned in a fine upstanding University from European born professor named Gui.
    It can be tough switching back and forth between talking to Harvey and Gui. Being
    oh so precise and insisting on correcting Harvey would have been rude and pretentious.
    \ Besides, he would have just spit a chaw of tobacco in a can and ignored me.
    Harvey was a good typesetter. He was accurate, fast, and knew his H&J. Gui was
    a very nice, very educated man who would have just smiled and said, \"Zat iss
    vut you might call \"Universe\" here in America, no?  No need to be impolite to
    either one of them.\r\n\r\nI am always in great admiration of the many European,
    South American, and Asian visitors I have met here in the United States. Even
    though I might have to strain just a bit to understand their pronunciation of
    English, I am thrilled that they can do it. I would never dream of scolding them
    for their way of pronouncing words. I never correct them unless they ask me to.
    If I don't understand, I ask for further explanation.  I have met many wonderful
    people who struggle with English. If I were such an arrogant jerk as to only talk
    to people who speak perfect English, I would have missed out on meeting so many
    friends.  I just wish I could speak their languages half as well as they speak
    English.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-07-30 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I believe each country/region will pronounce according to their culture,
    especially considering how other words were loaned from different languages. So,
    \"correct\" is always relative. Maybe just in international events like TypeCon
    this would be an issue, although a minor one.\r\n\r\nChris, you described a recorrent
    situation for me. In Brazil, there is no problem to pronounce well know words
    in their original way. Everybody knows how to say celebrities names or widely
    spread films and songs. But if I try to pronounce Ludwig van Beethoven properly,
    as in German, I may sound pretentious, affected and arrogant to many audiences."
  created: '2010-07-30 02:46:42'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "The argument, that your counterpart understands you better, if you pronounce
    words in a way, that he is accustomed, is only partly valid. If your counterpart
    is not an ignorant, correct him. Not in the manner of an elitist arrogant teacher.\r\n\r\n\u201CFew-ture-uh\u201D
    is not the English pronunciation of a Latin word. If you say \u201CFew-ture-uh\u201D,
    you have fully integrated \u201CFew-ture-uh\u201D into the English language. I
    miss a bit the respect for other languages there, because the name of the typeface
    is relatively young and it is a every day word for printers and typographers only.
    You cannot pronounce Latin words in an English way. If you say \u201CFew-ture-uh\u201D
    it is okay. But then it is also okay, if a German says \u201CUhdohbeh\u201D, \u201CNav
    York\u201D, \u201CHoudsohn\u201D or \u201CWohrld Trahdeh Center\u201D. Most Germans,
    that know it better, would probably correct their German counterpart, if he says
    \u201CNav York\u201D.\r\n\r\n@ Freiberger\r\n\r\nSince Clockwork Orange the correct
    pronunciation is \u201CLoodwick Fun\u201D."
  created: '2010-07-30 07:47:53'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> \u201CFew-ture-uh\u201D is not the English pronunciation of a Latin word.\r\n\r\nCaesar
    would not have understood the English pronunciation of Latin :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traditional_English_pronunciation_of_Latin#Sample_text\r\n\r\nCompare
    e.g. the pronunciation of \"fortuna\" with \"futura\".\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-30 08:21:24'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Arno, English has used Latin words for a long time and has developed its
    own traditions of pronouncing them. You can't say pronouncing Futura in such a
    fashion is wrong because it is different from how we reconstruct Latin pronunciation
    (which itself went through numerous changes over the centuries that it was spoken).
    By the same token, we don't say a German pronouncing Venus as 'FEH-nuss' is wrong
    because that was not how Julius Caesar would have pronounced it.\r\n\r\nIt is
    not comparable to English or German speakers mangling names in other languages
    that are spoken today.\r\n\r\n<cite>Caesar would not have understood the English
    pronunciation of Latin :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nShakespeare would not have understood
    today's pronunciation of English. :) (Seriously, that's how much the pronunciation
    changed since his time.)"
  created: '2010-07-30 09:33:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "But Futura isn't a loanword. It's a product proper name. Usually marketing
    departments decide how to pronounce these ;-)\r\n\r\n(by the way, Venus isn't
    a good example, because proper German has several exceptions where V is not pronounced
    F)"
  created: '2010-07-30 09:57:42'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>by the way, Venus isn't a good example, because proper German has several
    exceptions where V is not pronounced F</cite>\r\n\r\nYou're right, the pronunciation
    with 'f' is not preferred for Venus in proper German. Perhaps a better example
    is the habit of introducing 'ts' sounds everywhere, as in Cicero."
  created: '2010-07-30 10:21:58'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: There is only a handful of Germans, who correctly pronounce Venus. Not German
    is my measuring stick, but Latin. The e in the Latin word Venus is short.
  created: '2010-07-30 12:11:45'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I just found out while reading a description of North American English pronunciation
    that there were those who systematically pronounce 'TURE' as 'CHOOR' in a stressed
    syllable even if they pronounce a long 'TU' as 'TOO' when followed by consonants
    other than 'r'. So these people will say 'TOOB' and 'TOON-uh' for 'tube' and 'tuna',
    but 'muh-CHOOR' and 'CHOOR-ing' for 'mature' and 'Turing'. This explains why Joe
    and presumably John (quadibloc) pronounce it 'few-CHOOR-uh'. I wasn't familiar
    with this variation, which was why I was stumped at hearing it coming from North
    Americans.\r\n\r\nJoe, you do realize that 'few-TURE-uh' is a perfectly valid
    description of your own pronunciation if you regularly pronounce 'TURE' as 'CHOOR'?
    The point is that we're all talking about the same underlying pronunciation, even
    if there is some variation in how it comes out from the mouths of different people."
  created: '2010-07-30 14:17:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arno, long ago when I was taught Latin, if I remember rightly \"ad hoc\"
    in the system I was taught should be pronounced ahd hoak. But the pesky Oxford
    Concise English Dictionary tells me what is correct is \"ad (as ADvertising) hahk.\"
    [[http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ad+hoc|The (American) on-line Miriam
    Webster dictionary]] gives \"ad\" as in \"advertising\" (the nasalized a, not
    existing in Latin, or German), and then \"hahk\" as the first pronunciation for
    \"hoc\" and the alternative as \"hoak\". You can listen to it on the site. \r\n\r\nEt
    cetera should, in the system I was taught, be pronounced \"et ketera.\" But for
    all English speakers it is \"Et Setera.\" And Julius Caesar is always with a J
    as in juice, not as I was taught is correct Latin, \"yul-ee-us\", and we always
    say \"sieze-er\", not the more Latin \"kai-sar\".\r\n\r\nThe way foreign words,
    whether loan words like \"et cetera\" or proper names like \"Julius Caesar\" are
    pronounced is somewhat arbitrary in English\u2014and any language\u2014as they
    range from close to native to to totally Anglicised. But what happens is that
    one version gradually becomes established, and is certified in a dictionary. \r\n\r\nAbout
    60% of English vocabulary comes from Latin words, either via French or directly
    from Latin. Probably none of them are pronounced in a strictly French or Latin
    way--under anybody's system of Latin. \r\n\r\nTell me, why should I ignore hundreds
    of millions of native English speakers and all English dictionaries? "
  created: '2010-07-30 14:32:00'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ William\r\n\r\n<cite>About 60% of English vocabulary comes from Latin words,
    either via French or directly from Latin.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd because of that you
    have the pretensions, to anglicize every Latin word or every foreign word with
    a Latin origin at once?\r\n\r\nWith regard to hoc (hic, haec, hoc) my Latin dictionary
    is regarding to the third century AC. The o in hoc is indeed long in Latin (in
    contradiction to the i in hic \u2013 the pronunciation pronunciation seems to
    have changed in the end of the second century AC), but not in the Germanized hoc.
    But in contradiction to Futura, which is a proper noun, the Germanization of hoc
    has taken much longer than the Anglicizing of Futura.\r\n\r\nPlease tell me, what
    you would think about a German, who says Uhdohbeh instead of Adobe. Well, probably
    you would smile only, but a German, who knows only a bit English would correct
    the speaker, because his hackles would get up. Adobe is likewise a proper noun.\r\n\r\nUli\u2019s
    example is nice: If you would pronounce it in the way, that I assume you do, Fortuna
    would summon Nemesis.\r\n\r\nI think, the fact, that Futura is a proper name (Riccardo\u2019s
    argument), is the most valid argument."
  created: '2010-07-30 15:23:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Jongseong:\r\n\r\nI should like to express my admiration for your high-class
    linguistic contributions to this thread.\r\n\r\nArno Enslin:\r\n\r\n> The e in
    the Latin word Venus is short.\r\n\r\nThis is also a high-class linguistic observation.\r\n\r\n(\"venus\"
    is derived from the Sanskrit root \"van\", with the short vowel \"a\", although
    this does not prove the short vowel \"e\" of \"venus\". For details to \"van\"
    and \"venus\", see Mayrhofer, Etymologisches W\xF6rterbuch des Altindoarischen,
    Heidelberg 1996, Band 2, Seite 501).\r\n\r\nIf we want to define the \"proper\"
    pronunciation of a given word, we cannot do this without defining the period of
    time, when the word was used. As Jongseong stated correctly, Shakespeare would
    not have understood today's pronunciation of English.\r\n\r\nIf we want to define
    the \"original\" pronunciation of \"Futura\" as a font name, the proper period
    of time would be the lifetime of Paul Renner. The way, Paul Renner pronounced
    \"Futura\", is the proper original pronunciation of this font name.\r\n\r\nIf
    we want to define the \"proper\" pronunciation of \"futura\" as a Latin adjective,
    we must define the period of time, to which our definition refers (e.g. the pronunciation
    of the adjective \"futurus/a/um\" during the lifetime of Caesar, as apposed to,
    e.g., the pronunciation of this adjective by medieval scribes in monasteries).\r\n\r\nFor
    ancient languages such as Latin, Sanskrit etc., the \"original\" pronunciation
    cannot be defined with certainty. See for example www.sanskritweb.net/deutsch/ipa_sans.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-30 15:36:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Was Futura the first example of a type brand name to follow the \"three syllables
    ending in 'a' \" model?\r\n\r\nWe could go on about Futura for ever: its provenance
    and pedigree suggest that there is some kind of authoritative pronunciation. But
    is it really any more of an issue, pronunciation-wise, than, say, Verdana?\r\n\r\nVuh-dun-uh\r\nVair-daah-nuh\r\nVurr-daah-naahh\r\n&c.,
    &c.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-30 15:44:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...we must define the period of time, to which our definition refers...</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    what are you saying, Uli, the future isn't what it used to be? :-)"
  created: '2010-07-30 15:47:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Arno, the fact is that there is no official standard pronunciation for Futura
    in English. Otherwise there wouldn't be a question. Given that, and looking to
    adopt a standard, we can be helped by how other foreign words are treated in English.
    \r\n\r\nAs I said, and as shown by voluminous evidence, and as eruditely explained
    by Jongseong, there no imperative in English to pronounce Latin words as Latin.\r\n\r\nAs
    to commenting on how a German says \"Adobe,\" that would depend on 1. whether
    he is speaking German or English. and 2. whether he is interesting in pronouncing
    it as in English. If he is speaking German, I will be struggling to understand.
    I think it is up to Germans how they want to pronounce Adobe in German, not me.
    Unlike you, I don't think I have authority to dictate to speakers of other languages.
    \r\n\r\nIf he is speaking English, I won't be so rude as to correct his English
    pronunciation, I hope, unless asked. Of course if I don't understand what he is
    saying, I will ask. "
  created: '2010-07-30 16:06:40'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>If he is speaking English, I won't be so rude as to correct his English
    pronunciation.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, you cannot correct my pronunciation, but feel
    free to correct my grammar or orthography. (You probably had much to do and it
    would make threads unclear. But with regard to me I would not conceive that as
    rude.)"
  created: '2010-07-30 16:17:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I miss a bit the respect for other languages there, because the name of
    the typeface is relatively young and it is a every day word for printers and typographers
    only.\"\r\n\r\nI doubt very much that my old typesetter Harvey ever heard Futura
    pronounced any other way than his way in his lifetime. I am sure he meant no disrespect
    to other languages, he was just using a word in the only way he knew and he was
    clearly being understood by everyone he worked with. Clear communication is the
    main reason for language. \r\nMy last name is never pronounced properly by anyone
    who does not speak Greek. This is not because people are disrespecting Greek,
    it is just that the differences between Greek and whatever their native language
    is is so foreign to them that it is not in their memory of sounds and speech patterns.
    I do not fault them for this. As long as I know what they mean, I am fine hearing
    \"Lazose\" \"Lawzis\" \"Lowzis\" \"Lewzis\" or what ever else.  The only time
    I will ever address someone about my name is if it seems they completely misunderstood
    it the the point of confusion. That is if they pronounce it like another name,
    \"Lewis\". I even had it pronounced \"Lozotto\" by my Junior High gym teacher.
    He wrongly assumed  that I was of Italian ancestry and tried to say it as his
    vision of how it might be in Italian. :-) \r\nThe worst case of pronunciation
    of my name was when I was 45 years ago while I was in boot camp. My drill instructor
    called me \"Lozoa\" as in Low-Zoe-Ah. When I told him the correct way, he insisted
    that I was wrong! He even had my name written LOZOA on my paychecks :-) It took
    me months to get it corrected in my service records. This was truly a case of
    \"military intelligence\" at its best.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-07-30 16:28:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "William Berkson:\r\n\r\n> Arno, the fact is that there is no official standard
    pronunciation for Futura in English.\r\n\r\nHowever, there is an official standard
    pronunciation for Futura in German, contained in the authoritative German pronunciation
    dictionary \"DUDEN Aussprachew\xF6rterbuch\", third edition 1990, on page 314,
    first column, second line:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/futura.gif\r\n\r\nThis
    is the definitive German pronunciation (in IPA phonetic notation) of the \"Schrift\"
    (= font) \"Futura\" in German, and this is most certainly the original pronunciation
    used by Paul Renner."
  created: '2010-07-30 16:36:46'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nAnd how is Lozos correctly pronounced?\r\n\r\n<cite>This was
    truly a case of \"military intelligence\" at its best.</cite>\r\n\r\nSounds like
    you have learned from this experience. When you have gone to the army, you probably
    had no choice, because, as far as I remember, you are in an age, when there was
    a general conscription in the USA, had you? And in Greece there is still a general
    conscription (without the alternative of civil services), as far as I know.\r\n\r\nI
    think, it was better for me <em>and</em> the army, that I didn\u2019t do military
    service, because there had been two alternatives only: Either they had directly
    interned me or I first had shot the drill instructor."
  created: '2010-07-30 16:54:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>How to pronounce the typeface \"FUTURA\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSpartan"
  created: '2010-07-30 16:55:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"When you have gone to the army, you probably had no choice, because, as
    far as I remember, you are in an age, when there was a general conscription in
    the USA, had you? \"\r\n\r\nYes, we were drafted then. It was the Vietnam War
    era, so they drafted millions of us--otherwise I would never have voluntarily
    gone to Vietnam.\r\n\r\nMy name is pronounced as it is spelled \"Lozos\". I cannot
    phonetically capture it using latin glyphs. Anything reasonably close is fine
    with me. The test would be if you call my name and I answer :-)"
  created: '2010-07-30 17:16:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>The test would be if you call my name and I answer :-)</em>\r\n\r\nNow
    <em>there's</em> the pragmatist answer to correct pronunciation! :-)"
  created: '2010-07-30 17:22:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nSpontaneously I would pronounce it Lotsoss, where the first
    o is a mix of an a (<strong>a</strong>rmy) and an o (<strong>o</strong>rtography)."
  created: '2010-07-30 17:33:59'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nit's interesting to know how Latin pronounce is taught in
    English. Some of the words you pointed are said exactly equal in Portuguese, some
    are very different. Of course, this is due the way each language incorporated
    the words.\r\n\r\nBut Latin also variated a lot while it was used. For example,
    letters J and U does not exist in early Latin. So we find JUSTITIA, IUSTITIA and
    IVSTITIA in Latin inscriptions according to its time. BTW, Julius is pronounced
    yul-lee-us in Latin (at least, the Latin we know nowadays), but the J pronounce
    itself varies a lot in neolatin languages."
  created: '2010-07-30 17:37:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't know how to describe the "o" vowel sound other than to say it is more
    like the Italian or even Spanish pronunciation. The "z" is said more like the
    z in Zoo Which is based on the Greek word for animals,  Zoa. It does not have
    the Germanic "ts" sound like the Americans pronounce "Pizza", it is more the straight
    buzz sound of Zebra in English or "Zed" in Polish.
  created: '2010-07-30 17:46:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But Latin also variated a lot while it was used.\"\r\n\r\nSo does the American
    form of English. If you travel from Maine to Atlanta to Minneapolis to Texas to
    Detroit to New Orleans, you will get a very different version of \"American\"
    pronunciation."
  created: '2010-07-30 17:52:26'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Holy Renner, is this thing still on? Now after 65 replies, I guess it is
    about time to move on to the next level:\r\nHow do you pronounce <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18227\">Steile
    Futura</a>?"
  created: '2010-07-30 17:54:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Steile Futura\r\n\r\nI just give up and try to say it in German :) "
  created: '2010-07-30 18:18:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Juust think "Streetcar Named Desire" Florian :-)
  created: '2010-07-30 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Shtile?
  created: '2010-07-30 18:50:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Shtile?\r\n\r\nStiehl!"
  created: '2010-07-30 19:29:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Proper pronunciation is affected by the \"who\" is speaking as well as the
    \"who\" is spoken to, not just the point of origin of the word. \r\nIf Eric Spiekermann
    were speaking German to Willi Kunz, who would be correct? Would this be different
    if they were both in Germany? both in Switzerland? both in Austria? Does even
    someone from Berlin speak the same as someone from Bavaria? What about Mr Spiekermann
    saying a French word to JFP? I have heard many people from different countries
    speaking a second language to a third person who is native to yet another country.
    People have accents or dialects or colloquialisms and they cannot extract them
    easily. This is not because they intend it to be so, it is just a reality. What
    if we had a Swiss from Lausanne, a Canadian from Quebec, an American from Louisiana,
    an Italian from Torino, and a Frenchman from Marseillie  all speaking French?
    Would they ever be able to have a conversation without correct each other's pronunciation?
    What if the same people were speaking English together? If we were to allow that
    language was a means of communications for people who care to converse, we would
    see that expecting and accepting exact pronunciation would make conversation impossible.
    We are better off just accepting that foreigners to us are just doing the best
    they can with their individual backgrounds.\r\nWe are all likely to have heard
    \ the speaking voice of former U.S. Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford,
    Reagan, Carter, W Bush, and Clinton. There is a broad spectrum of ways of pronunciation
    of just American English.  \r\n\r\nGood thing the theme for this years TypeCon
    is \"Babel\". ;-)"
  created: '2010-07-30 19:45:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Stiehl!\"\r\n\r\nDanka!"
  created: '2010-07-30 19:48:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Chris, that's Uli's last name, not how you say it in German, which would be
    Sht-EYE-le foo-TOO-ra, with the gutteral r, if I've got it right.
  created: '2010-07-30 20:26:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"> Shtile?\r\n\r\nStiehl!\"\r\n\r\nSorry Uli, I had no idea that was your
    name, I was just trying to phonetically pronounce the \"Steile\" from Steile Futura
    and the question mark was just to say \"is this correct\"\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2010-07-30 22:00:45'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "When I got a new job, my Dutch co-workers were surprised to here me call
    a font \"Mean-Jon\", as they preferred \"Minni-Jon\".\r\n\r\nDutch vowels are
    pronounced quite differently from English and French ones; I've heard \"Tea-mess\",
    \"Gar-Ah-Mont\", \"Comeak Sans\", and \"Unee-Verse\", where I prefer (I think)
    English, and for some, French pronunciations (Garamond, Sabon).\r\n\r\nI never
    had problems finding the intended font, so the discussion appears academical.
    Is there a font where bad articulation could cause confusion?"
  created: '2010-07-30 23:12:05'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>Is there a font where bad articulation could cause confusion?<cite>\r\n\r\nJenson
    (from Frenchman Nicolas Jenson) and Janson (from Dutchman Anton Janson) could
    cause confusion."
  created: '2010-07-31 13:08:01'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "<cite>Is there a font where bad articulation could cause confusion?</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Garamond\"
    and \"Garamont\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-31 13:47:37'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Neutraface:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/64939"
  created: '2010-07-31 14:41:45'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: '...all this keeps making me think of Chank''s Asswipe ("ah-swee-pay")...'
  created: '2010-07-31 17:38:08'
- author:
    name: hun
    picture: 120459
  body: future-ah? perhaps? :-] hehe
  created: '2010-07-31 17:40:27'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "<strong>I Think there is not one way of saing Futura,\r\nthis depends on
    the lenguaje your speaking.</strong>\r\n\r\n\"Banana\" is a common word in several
    languajes,\r\nbut it's pronounced differently according to\r\nthe diferences of
    each lenguaje.\r\n\r\nThis is just my opinion.\r\n\r\nThere is also the correct
    option of trying\r\nto pronounce Futura in german (becouse Paul\r\nRenner was
    frin Germany).\r\n\r\nIn spanish we pronouce something like: \"foo.too.ra\"\r\n\r\nHow
    do germans pronounce it?"
  created: '2010-07-31 18:16:39'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "\u0424 \u0423 \u0422 \u0423 \u0420 \u0410 <em>is easy. Now try</em> \u041F
    \u0415 \u041D \u042C \u041E (<em>Peignot</em>)\u2026"
  created: '2010-07-31 19:25:32'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "I agree with Maxim :-), I suppose all Slavonic languages users have no problem
    with F U T U R A / \u0424 \u0423 \u0422 \u0423 \u0420 \u0410. And (last but not
    least) Lingua Latina was the language of educated people for last 1000 years."
  created: '2010-07-31 19:52:33'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: 'Neutra is a pronoun in Latin, but not an adjective. The term Neutraface is
    more synthetic than Futura. Does Neutra in Neutraface mean neutral? Or is the
    word even more synthetical?: Neu (new) / tra(ditionell) (traditional) / face.'
  created: '2010-07-31 21:34:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Does Neutra in Neutraface mean neutral? Or is the word even more synthetical?:
    Neu (new) / tra(ditionell) traditional) / face.</em>\r\n \r\nNo, Neutra in Neutraface
    means [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Neutra|Neutra]]. :-) "
  created: '2010-07-31 21:40:52'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Then it is clear, how Neutraface has to be the pronounced \u2013 in my opinion."
  created: '2010-07-31 21:46:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "About Neutra, it\u2019s all explained in the thread I linked to. \r\nI was
    joking, just to lighten up the thread! ;-)"
  created: '2010-07-31 22:44:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "\u0424\u042E\u0422\u0423\u0420\u0410"
  created: '2010-08-02 23:21:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "\u0424\u0423\u0427\u0423\u0420\u0410"
  created: '2010-08-02 23:22:00'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "\u041F\u0415\u0419\u041D\u0401"
  created: '2010-08-02 23:25:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually there's an invisible \"r\" in there - it's pronounced \"fartura\"...\r\nGeometry
    in type design is just hot gas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-12 14:40:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: And "fartura" in Portuguese is "abundance".
  created: '2010-08-12 15:00:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah!\r\nAnd \"fart\" in Polish means luck.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-12 15:09:15'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: Not to mention 'fart' also means 'speed' in Scandinavian languages.
  created: '2010-08-12 20:44:12'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "And by the way, have you met many people in the r\xE9gion parisienne that
    do not pronounce fyty\u02C8\u0281a ?"
  created: '2010-08-12 20:57:38'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "To be truthful, I don't remember anyone around here saying the name Futura
    out loud; off line, I do not hang out much with a typography-oriented crowd. But
    I fully expect to hear fyty\u02C8\u0281a for Futura, and that's how I pronounce
    it in my head in French."
  created: '2010-08-12 21:04:46'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I have a place in Emsturrthem \u2014 eh, sorry, Amsterdam.\r\n\r\nFuh-thue-rah"
  created: '2010-08-13 00:39:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Guess how the French pronounce my name!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-13 00:46:02'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "From now on, after studying this thread very closely, I'm pronouncing it
    <cite>AvantGarde</cite>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-13 04:11:58'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: OK... How do the French pronounce your name Hrant. :o)
  created: '2010-08-13 04:14:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ghan. The \"n\" is silent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-13 05:16:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...in your general dirrection\"\r\n\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2010-08-16 20:31:40'
date: '2010-07-27 17:33:46'
title: How to pronounce Futura

---
