---
author:
  name: charles ellertson
body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWe got a notice that the large discount to purchase the Fontographer
  upgrade would expire in a few days, at the end of the month. Now, the only thing
  I would use Fontographer over FontLab for is it's *change weight* feature (as opposed
  to FL's *bold*). If I do only that in Fontographer, I'll (1) spend an extra $100,
  and (2) have a cumbersome workflow. \r\n\r\nIt is rumored that when FL Studio 6
  comes out, the \"bold\" will work much better, akin to Fontographer's \"change weight.\"
  Does anyone at FontLab have a projection when version 6 will come out? \r\n\r\n(Jeez,
  from your web page, you are partly the marketing manager. Usually I don't ask a
  marketing manager if I can save some money by not buying one of their products,
  but in FontLab's case, I figure you guys have our interests at heart.)\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duke_Nukem_Forever
  created: '2010-07-27 22:07:20'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: I'd like to hear how the features are different, technically speaking as I
    agree FL's bold feature seems like it could be better.
  created: '2010-07-28 00:47:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "FLS6 will most likely include both the FontLab and the FOG \"bold\" algorithms.
    We resumed work on FLS6 after the release of FOG5, and we're in the pre-alpha
    status now. Our intent is to have FontLab Studio 6 for Windows available by the
    end of this calendar year, and the Mac version 3-4 months later. \r\n\r\nThese
    are early projections but we're on a steady development track right now. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-29 19:09:34'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: Good news :)
  created: '2010-07-31 17:05:57'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: Cant wait! :)
  created: '2010-08-01 04:51:18'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: 'bump, 3 months later: any news on fontlab 6?'
  created: '2010-11-01 15:03:17'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "<cite>bump, 3 months later: any news on fontlab 6?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo soup
    for you!"
  created: '2010-11-01 17:59:05'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> No soup for you!\r\n\r\nNo vodka for you.  :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 21:01:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Adam's original estimate . . .\r\n\r\n<cite>Our intent is to have FontLab
    Studio 6 for Windows available by the end of this calendar year</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not even time to begin making excuses yet.\r\n\r\nHowever, there is enough wit
    on this forum the help the FL people out, if you want to start helping them with
    excuses early . . .\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 21:16:19'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: In Russia the homework eat the dog?
  created: '2010-11-01 22:10:12'
- author:
    name: pvanderlaan
    picture: 112305
  body: "To quote the aforementioned Duke Nukem: \u201CWhat are you waiting for..?
    Christmas?!\u201D"
  created: '2010-11-02 08:08:01'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "Great news: FontLab 6 will finally be out in a matter of hours!\r\n\r\n<em>Our
    intent is to have FontLab Studio 6 for Windows available by the end of this calendar
    year, and the Mac version 3-4 months later.</em>\r\n<em>These are early projections
    but we're on a steady development track right now.</em>\r\n<em>\u2013Adam</em>\r\n<em>\u2013July
    29, 2010 (see above)</em>\r\n\r\nHappy New Year!\r\n(And you all were expecting
    another Duke Nukem?!)"
  created: '2010-12-31 10:58:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "If I were a cynical person, I'd say FontLab is spending their capital eliminating
    competition by hiring people who are developing alternative products.\r\n\r\nGood
    thing I'm not a cynical person. I can't wait to be able to use FL to work on fonts
    with AFDKO 2.5 for features."
  created: '2010-12-31 15:07:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: So, how many hours left for the release announcement?
  created: '2010-12-31 15:41:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>If I were a cynical person, I'd say FontLab is spending their capital
    eliminating competition by hiring people who are developing alternative products.</cite>\r\n\r\nIIRC
    Fontlab was providing some of the funding for Glyphs from the start."
  created: '2011-01-01 20:22:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dunwich Type: No, we've provided some funding for RoboFab development, but
    not for Glyphs. \r\n\r\nCharles: It's not like that. Georg approached us quite
    some time ago, giving us suggestions for further development of our product. He
    started developing Glyphs as a proof of concept that his ideas had merit. We've
    been in informal contact for a few years, and a few months ago (at the ATypI Dublin
    conference, in fact), we've come to a mutual agreement that it's best for both
    sides if Georg is working for us, and helps us improve the products. By the way,
    the story is quite similar to how I came to work for FontLab. I've corresponded
    with the developers for a few years and shared my ideas with them, and at some
    point they decided to invite me to their team. There is certainly no conspiracy
    behind all this :) \r\n\r\nThe past few months of development also showed us that
    we need to rewrite some major parts of our 13-years-old code from scratch. Some
    limitations of it (such as the integer coordinates, limitation to +-32,000 in
    coordinate space, hardwired Multiple Master support) limited us largely as for
    what we could do. But the biggest problem was indeed, the rooting of the Mac version
    in Mac OS 9, Carbon, and PowerPC. Moving the old code to XCode and Intel turned
    out to be a huge task and lots of wasted energy. So we concentrated on rewriting
    the core from scratch, eliminating lots of silly stuff from the past, improving
    the speed and stability a lot. A huge part of it is already done, but we were
    not able to finalize the application by the end of the last calendar year. \r\n\r\nI
    realize that it's disappointing for many of our customers, but please be assured
    that we *are* working at our full capacity on the project. It's just a hugely
    complex application and we do have very limited resources (in short: we're a small
    company). \r\n\r\nI'll keep you posted on new developments, of course. \r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 00:49:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "So is Glyphs still going to be a standalone app or will it be folded into
    future versions of Fontlab and/or Fontographer?\r\n\r\n<cite>But the biggest problem
    was indeed, the rooting of the Mac version in Mac OS 9, Carbon, and PowerPC. Moving
    the old code to XCode and Intel turned out to be a huge task and lots of wasted
    energy. So we concentrated on rewriting the core from scratch, eliminating lots
    of silly stuff from the past, improving the speed and stability a lot.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    is Fontlab 6 still going to be a more stable and up-to-date overhaul of 5 with
    Fontlab 7 being a totally new app? Also, are you still planning to do a Windows
    version first followed by a later Mac release?"
  created: '2011-01-04 03:06:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Because of the speed of the rewrite, FontLab Studio 6 will be a larger rewrite
    than originally expected, taking our experience of working on both the old FontLab
    and the old Fontographer codebase, and of Georg's experience of working on Glyphs.
    \r\n\r\nWe have not acquired Glyphs. We have hired Georg Seifert. He does plan
    to develop Glyphs in his spare time. "
  created: '2011-01-04 04:07:19'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Charles: <em>I can\u2019t wait to be able to use FL to work on fonts with
    AFDKO 2.5 for features.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIf you <strong>really</strong> can\u2019t
    wait for applying the AFDKO 2.5, you could generate your OT fonts without features
    using FLS, build a features file that contains all you can think of, like <a href=\"http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/features_2.1_New_OTM.txt\">this
    one</a> (I will revise and enhance the file shortly), and use <em>DTL OTMaster</em>,
    which is available from FontLab Ltd, to generate (and check and [if applicable]
    edit) the tables.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAdam: <em>[...] we need to rewrite some major parts
    of our 13-years-old code from scratch</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAfter releasing DTL FontMaster
    in 2002 we were in a pickle, because the MFC compiler was not updated to support
    Mac OS X. So, everything had to be newly coded at URW++ in <em>Qt</em> (if I recall
    correctly what Yuri told me in Dublin, FL Ltd has switched to Qt too).\r\nAll
    our recent applications, from OTM to LeMo have been made using Qt, and sooner
    or later we will have a new font editor also.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n(At the moment I am
    thinking of an iOS version of [the new edition of] LeMo [which will be for free
    again, of course].)\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 15:12:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Thanks for the details, Adam. I am looking forward to seeing what the formidable
    combination of the Fontlab team and Georg produce together!
  created: '2011-01-04 15:40:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "A couple of functional requests:\r\n\r\nCould you make the kerning (class
    information) in the metrics window work properly like it used to in 5.0 - ie.
    'referenced in class' or 'key glyph in class' when the little box is clicked under
    the glyph. At present it says 'cancel' or 'remove this place point'.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be great if there was an option to name stylistic sets rather than just
    'set 1' set 2' etc.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2011-01-09 12:04:31'
- author:
    name: johnych
    picture: 109669
  body: "Nick: <cite>Could you make the kerning (class information) in the metrics
    window work properly like it used to in 5.0 - ie. 'referenced in class' or 'key
    glyph in class' when the little box is clicked under the glyph. At present it
    says 'cancel' or 'remove this place point'.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt seems your CurrentWorkspace.rc
    file was corrupted.\r\n\r\nJohnych"
  created: '2011-01-11 15:01:48'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: One year later, still waiting patiently ... I bet I'm not the only FontLab-using
    type designer who would love any morsel of information on the development.
  created: '2012-01-15 13:10:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>love any morsel of information</cite>\r\n\r\nCertainly. It will be
    out before the ending of the world. Maybe."
  created: '2012-01-15 23:17:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That only leaves a few months!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 23:21:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> typing Cyrillic or Greek characters is possible directly\r\n> in the Preview
    panel or the Metrics Window's text box\r\n\r\nI need that on the Windows version,
    please!!\r\n(You can tell I'm serious because I just used two exclamation marks.)\r\nTimeframe?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-16 00:10:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dear all,\r\n\r\nAbout a year ago, I wrote: \"the biggest problem was indeed,
    the rooting of the Mac version in Mac OS 9, Carbon, and PowerPC. Moving the old
    code to XCode and Intel turned out to be a huge task and lots of wasted energy.
    So we concentrated on rewriting the core from scratch, eliminating lots of silly
    stuff from the past, improving the speed and stability a lot.\" \r\n\r\nAs you
    can see now -- primarily because of Apple's decision to drop PPC support from
    Mac OS X 10.7 Lion -- we had to change things once again. \r\n\r\nAs it was obvious
    that the complete rewrite would not be ready before Lion is released, we decided
    to do what we had dreaded to do for so long. In the last 15 months or so, we did
    indeed port the Metroworks/PowerPC-based Mac code to XCode/Intel-based Mac code
    and upgraded all text controls to Unicode (so typing Cyrillic or Greek characters
    is possible directly in the Preview panel or the Metrics Window's text box), upgraded
    the Python integration. Especially the first step was a truly major operation
    -- about 24 man-months of full-time work! \r\n\r\nAs I said, the lack of compatibility
    and support of the older development platforms on the Apple side was the primary
    reason why the FontLab Studio for Mac development was on hold in 2007-2010. \r\n\r\nMoving
    from PPC to Intel in our case was really a great challenge, but fortunately, it's
    done now. And -- hell! -- we decided to swallow the cost of those 24 man-months
    ourselves and released FLS 5.1 as a free update for all 5.0 users. While FLS 5.1.1
    is not yet perfect, it's MUCH more than just a simple update to 5.0.4. Really
    a lot was changed to make FLS 5.1.1 run 2.5 times faster than 5.0.4. But most
    of those changes were done \"under the hood\". \r\n\r\nAnyhow -- the work of the
    last 15 months has laid a good foundation for FontLab Studio 6 development on
    the Mac. And after all, in FLS 5.1.1, we have also included some features that
    were originally planned for FontLab Studio 6: we have integrated Adobe FDK for
    OpenType version 2.5 and the native Microsoft rasterizers for TrueType hinting
    preview, included the Clean Up Paths algorithm from Fontographer (in FLS 5.1's
    Actions panel) as an alternative to Optimize, and done some additional improvements
    under the hood. \r\n\r\nWe realize that for some users it's not much, but that's
    primarily because we never really planned to release FLS 5.1. All this work was
    supposed to go into FLS 6.0, along with \"real new features\" but because of Lion,
    we needed to shift things around, give all priority to the necessary architectural
    changes first (so that 5.1 could be released), and do the nice creative things
    later. \r\n\r\nThere are more features that we're working on, and also more bugfixes.
    Some are already \"ready\" i.e. implemented in a development build for Windows,
    and currently we are merging the changes that two teams had done independently
    (the Windows team and the Mac team). Others have been developed while we worked
    on Fontographer 5.0 and 5.1 (a huge lot, actually), and we're now able to \"move\"
    them into FontLab Studio. We are also prioritizing the features that still need
    to be developed, and working on their implementation. \r\n\r\nI'd like to add
    that for years, FontLab and later FontLab Studio were developed by just two people
    (one on Mac, one on Windows). We now have a team of seven people working on FontLab
    Studio 6, and they're making good progress. \r\n\r\nWe also have a separate team
    working on a complete rewrite of the code, but that project -- while it's hugely
    exciting and, dare I say, quite revolutionary -- will still take time to gain
    shape.  \r\n\r\nOverall, I can say that in the last 12 months, I've seen the most
    intense development progress at Fontlab Ltd. since I joined the company in 2004.
    \r\n\r\nSo basically, the bottom line is: FontLab Studio 6 will be built on the
    mature, solid foundation of the current FLS 5.1 codebase. It won't be a revolution,
    but will be an evolution. It's being worked on as we speak. It will suffer from
    some limitations of the FLS 5.x codebase (e.g. integer coordinates only), and
    will not include a huge number of revolutionary changes, but our goal is: some
    good new features and a lot of stability improvements. I still cannot give you
    any specific times at this point simply because -- as I said -- we're currently
    doing the major improvement in the code, and it's difficult to estimate when we'll
    have something which will be ready-to-ship. But we'll start seeding pre-release
    versions to groups of testers within the next few months. \r\n\r\nAt the same
    time, we're working on a product that will be a completely new thing. From what
    I've seen: if FontLab Studio 5 was PageMaker 6, then FontLab Studio 6 will be
    PageMaker 7, and \"the completely new thing\" will be InDesign. \r\n\r\nYou'll
    be hearing from us. Before the end of the world, I'm sure of it! \r\n\r\nHappy
    2012 for you all! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-16 00:18:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\nI think from reading this thread, you should realize that
    whenever I announce any timeframes, people end up laughing at me some time later.
    \r\n\r\nI could give you my *goal* though: my goal is to have FontLab Studio 6
    released in 2012 for both Mac OS X and Windows. I really cannot be more specific.
    But early development pre-release versions should be available within the next
    2-3 months or so. We'll post an announcement inviting people to a closed pre-release
    program as soon as those are available. \r\n\r\nWe're back to work on our \"flagship
    product\". Not on Photofont, not on BitFonter, not on Fontographer etc., but on
    FontLab Studio. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-16 00:26:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my goal is to have FontLab Studio 6 released\r\n> in 2012 for both Mac
    OS X and Windows.\r\n\r\nThat's good enough for me.\r\nI don't know why people
    make fun of somebody who's in the same boat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-16 00:41:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Forget the effing master of marketing, always wear black, mac. Real people
    use Windows.\r\n\r\n& please, please don't compare the new FL6 to InDesign. We've
    reported bugs with CS2 that are still there. CS5.5 has added a couple that stopped
    us dead with file comparison, always needed with multiple proof stages using InDesign.
    Let's hope FL6 is far better! (or at least cleaner...) \r\n\r\n(I'll allow I'm
    known as <cite>the</cite> curmudgeon on another forum ;-)  )"
  created: '2012-01-16 01:39:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I must say that after the beta process, FLS 5.1 on the Mac gives me much more
    stability.  There are much fewer ugly crashes but still some abnormalities in
    the interface between Mac and FontLab.  Best wishes for a stable, trustworthy,
    reliable FLS6.
  created: '2012-01-16 01:46:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you for a very thorough answer, and the best of luck with what''s left
    of the development. Good to hear the FontLab team is taking this as seriously
    as you obviously do. For now, FontLab 5.0.4 is still working fine on my Windows
    7 system, but boy! am I looking forward to a major update. Using FL5 now does
    indeed feel a bit like how using PageMaker while waiting for InDesign must have
    felt (while knowing that QuarkXPress is available). '
  created: '2012-01-16 11:14:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Charles, \r\n\r\nInDesign has gone a long way now, but the point is the comparison
    between PageMaker and InDesign. InDesign did bring native PDF support, full vector-based
    drawing, Unicode, OpenType, plug-in extensibility and an overall \"modern\" approach
    to page layout. PageMaker was an old product, based on a very old core. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not trying to compare the future FontLab product to InDesign directly :) I'm trying
    to make the parallel that the difference between FontLab Studio as you know it
    now (and which version *6* will still be based on) and the future product (let's
    call it FLS 7 for now) will be just as serious as the difference between PageMaker
    and InDesign (which both came from the former Aldus and later Adobe development).
    \r\n\r\nJust as Aldus and later Adobe kept on developing PageMaker while having
    started a completely new product (InDesign) from scratch, we are working on a
    similar cycle. We're adding features, maturity and stability to FLS 5.x to make
    FLS 6. It won't be a revolution but will be an evolution -- of a product which
    is now (in total) some 15 years old. \r\n\r\nAt the same time, we're reinventing
    the font editor completely, from scratch, based on a very modern and flexible
    architecture. \r\n\r\nThe bottom line is: we're working hard, and we're fortunate
    to have the largest team of developers that we've ever had, and they're some some
    very fine people! :) I'm excited. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 01:28:57'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Charles, \r\n\r\n> \"Forget the effing master of marketing, always wear black,
    mac. Real people use Windows.\"\r\n\r\nUnlike any other company that offers font
    editing tools, we've always developed for both Mac OS X and Windows. This is on
    one hand a bit of complication (since the development takes longer and the applications
    may not look and feel so completely slick and fancy as some competing products),
    on the other hand it allows more users to run the tools. \r\n\r\nMacs are somewhat
    popular in Western Europe and the U.S., but in the rest of the world, they're
    hardly relevant. We want to make products that allow people to make fonts not
    just for the Western languages, but also for all the other scripts that exist
    in the world. \r\n\r\nSo we have, and will continue to release products for both
    Mac OS X and Windows. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 01:35:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Macs are somewhat popular in Western Europe and the U.S., but in the
    rest of the world, they're hardly relevant.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh. Perhaps that's why
    my business partner, ethnic Chinese, born & raised in Sabah, educated in Scotland
    and the U.S., dislikes Macs...\r\n\r\nFor me, the old Altsys Fontographer, even
    though developed for the Mac, use to crash on the hour when used on a Mac. It
    was sort of intuitive. Every time you think \"I'd better save now,\" the program
    would beat you to it and crash. \r\n\r\nBut it seemed bulletproof on a P.C. And
    TeX ran better on a P.C. ..."
  created: '2012-01-17 04:02:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Please not another Mac/PC flame war? Can't we just keep the subject FLS-6?
  created: '2012-01-17 04:32:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fontographer never crashed on me. But maybe that's\r\nbecause I used to run
    it with a Mac emulator on my\r\nAmiga-500... sans hard drive.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 04:36:22'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-17 21:25:07'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: Will FL6 be compatible for x64 OS?
  created: '2012-01-18 08:15:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tourdeforce, \r\n\r\nFontLab Studio 6 for Mac OS X and for Windows will be
    a 32-bit Intel application. Just as the current versions of FontLab Studio (5.1
    on Mac OS X and 5.0.4 on Windows), FLS6 will work fine on 64-bit operating systems.
    \r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell, the primary advantage of compiling applications
    as native 64-bit Intel is the ability to address more than 4 GB of RAM. Are there
    other reasons why you'd need a native 64-bit version? "
  created: '2012-01-18 16:39:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speed is another advantage. But in the case of font production you really\r\nhave
    to be running large batches of automatic processes for it to matter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-18 16:45:24'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: I, for one, am very glad Fontlab is available for Windows and Mac. It seems
    that all newer apps are mac only. As a user of both (my desktop is running windows
    7 and my laptop is a macbook air), it's great that Fontlab works on both and I
    appreciate your efforts to keep this a main goal of the app.
  created: '2012-01-18 17:46:06'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Adam.. If you are already working on FL7, why waste your time and energy
    on FL6?\r\n\r\nCan I make a humble suggestion? \r\nJust release and update to
    the new FL5.1 including native UFO support and call it a day. \r\nSkip FL6 altogether,
    and focus all your resources on FL7.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 05:50:07'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nThat's the only reason why I'm asking (RAM). Thanks."
  created: '2012-01-19 08:21:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "tourdeforce, \r\n\r\nfont development isn't particularly RAM-hungry. The
    4 GB limit is far more than enough. Native 64-bit is mostly needed for large images
    or video editing where you're really dealing with huge amounts of data. Yet developing
    a native 64-bit version is costly, because you can't just switch to it -- you
    still need a 32-bit version of code. We're already making a Mac and a Windows
    version, and adding the 32+64 bit pair to each those would mean double the binaries.
    Then, there's the PPC + Intel on the Mac etc. When developing applications, they
    need to be tested in a variety of environments. We already have several versions
    of Windows and Mac OS X on which we need to test. \r\n\r\nLet's say we release
    the Windows version of the app only as 32-bit native. Then we need to test that
    code on Windows 7 32-bit and Windows 7 64-bit. \r\n\r\nBut if we release the Windows
    version of the app as both 32-bit and 64-bit, we'd need to test the 32-bit code
    on Windows 7 32-bit and Windows 7 64-bit, and the 64-bit code on Windows 7 64-bit.
    And then also comes Windows XP and Vista, and the Mac OS X versions etc. \r\n\r\nSo
    it'd just add more combinations that would need to be thoroughly tested, which
    would only delay the release of the products even further. So we think it's not
    worth the effort. \r\n\r\nI hope you understand the above reasoning. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 08:36:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Pablo, \r\n\r\n> If you are already working on FL7, why waste your time and
    energy on FL6?\r\n\r\nAs I explained it earlier, it's kind of similar of Aldus
    and later Adobe working concurrently on PageMaker and InDesign. \r\n\r\nDeveloping
    an application from scratch takes a long time. FontLab Studio as we know it today
    is a very feature-rich application with an established user interface and usage
    patters by the users. Many people are used to it, they're very proficient in the
    tool but have been asking for more than just UFO. In our minds, we quite well
    know what FontLab Studio 6 will be like, and we're essentially implementing what
    already has been planned. We'll \"call it a day\" once we've given our devoted
    users *what they want*. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm referring to as \"FontLab Studio 7\"
    is a different matter. It may well break with many of the old habits and make
    users introduce new ones. We're working on it, but it's nowhere near completion.
    Some parts of its functionality haven't been even started, while others are already
    quite well-implemented. It's certain, however, that users will need to re-learn.
    Some people may perhaps hate it in the end. It's very likely that the product
    won't be called \"FontLab Studio 7\" at all (again, as with PageMaker, where InDesign
    1.0 and PageMaker 6.5 and later InDesign 2.0 and PageMaker 7.0 were different
    products). \r\n\r\nIt will take quite some time for the new product to cover all
    kinds of functionalities that people will need. For some years to come, FontLab
    Studio (5.x now and 6.0 later this year) will be the *only* product on the market
    which will offer that particular functionality. In other words, FontLab Studio
    as we know it now is now a mature product, like a person in their 40s. The fully
    new product is in its early teen years. At some point, it'll be in its early 20s
    but will still not be free of faults. There will be people who'll jump onto the
    new kid on the block but there will be others who'll prefer to stick with the
    old product. \r\n\r\nYou can also see it this way: FontLab Studio as we know it
    now is so extensive that -- when it comes to the \"wealth\" of features -- it
    practically has no match on the market. But there is Glyphs and RoboFont, which
    are more sophisticated and smoother as a design tool, while on the other hand
    they don't offer (and probably never will) offer certain other aspects -- like
    for example manual TrueType hinting. \r\n\r\nThe new product will initially be
    more in the same realm as Glyphs or RoboFab, I suppose. Only with time, it (or
    perhaps a separate tool) may also cover other parts which are currently unique
    to FLS. \r\n\r\nWith UFO, fortunately, we can have interoperability between all
    these products. \r\n\r\nWith any product, there is a certain development cycle.
    You have it with fonts as well: \r\n\r\nImagine FontLab Studio 6 as a typeface
    which already had earlier versions released, but you're now adding Greek and some
    OpenType glyphs. It already has 90% of the intended character set, which is kerned
    and hinted, but now you're working on some additional glyphs, reviewing existing
    spacing, kerning and hinting, fixing some problems with them, and writing some
    additional code for OpenType Layout features. \r\n\r\nThen imagine our new product
    (which I referred to as \"FLS7\" but this may very well change) as a typeface
    where you have most of the basic alphabet and quite a few special glyphs already
    drawn, but you still are deciding on the shape of the serifs, and maybe you'll
    redraw some of the glyphs completely, and perhaps you'll re-space it fully once
    again, and there are no composite glyphs or math glyphs or any kerning or hinting
    done yet. \r\n\r\nYou certainly wouldn't say \"just drop the first one completely
    and focus all your energy on the second one\", would you? \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-01-19 08:38:30'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nis there any possibility to have a 5.1 version for Windows addressing
    the 6,000 glyph limit? FLS runs very smoothly for me (in a Vista 64-bit, using
    the XP compatibility mode) but the glyph limit does not let me to work with the
    whole font project.\r\n\r\nAlthough FLS hardly consumes many resources, I found
    a situation where it becomes almost frozen. When working with _xxx anchors which
    are referred by hundreds of base letter with xxx anchors, the program takes several
    seconds to do any operation \u2013 even to open the glyph window.\r\n\r\nWith
    the help of fellow typophiller Eigi, I did a workaround to edit combining diacritics:
    changed the _xxx anchors to _zzz with a Python script. To build compositions,
    just change the anchors back to _xxx. Anyway, this is a rare issue where FLS really
    stresses the computer resources (but just with glyphs where there is a _xxx anchor,
    all remaining operations keep normal)."
  created: '2012-01-19 09:10:25'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "@ Adam\r\n\r\nYes, I understand everything what you're saying and it's not
    so easy as it seems, as you already explained. It's like when webdesigner make
    tests on every browser, going down to IE6, cause market dictates some rules.\r\n\r\nMy
    question was mostly related to those who will/would, in some moment, have to use
    Windows (Vista/7) 64-bit as their environment. For example, on this computer,
    I have 8GB (Vista 64-bit) and on another 16GB with Win7 64-bit. Cause I think
    people will start moving to 64-bit OS slowly since trends on IT market are moving
    forward to it, like it or not, and in some moment, most of designers (graphic/web/typo..)
    would have to switch to 64-bit cause of RAM on first place. Simply said - when
    you're buying a new configuration those days (for general design usage), somehow
    4GB became standard RAM in offer.\r\n\r\nI'm just afraid, it might happened, for
    example, that in some moment, after 1-2 years of releasing FLS6 doesn't become
    an \"problematic\" software for OS and reverse. So it doesn't become already old
    version cause of IT trends we're talking about."
  created: '2012-01-19 10:22:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/greyscale_4892.png]\r\nIt looks like
    there\u2019s something wrong with the rasterizer, Adam."
  created: '2012-01-19 12:02:41'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: 'Tourdeforce: Maybe I don''t understand what the problem is, but the current
    FontLab Studio runs on 64 bit Windows 7 just fine.'
  created: '2012-01-19 13:06:08'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "@ Jens\r\n\r\nThen that's good to hear. Didn't had a chance to try it in
    any Windows 64 bit OS yet.\r\n\r\nThere was no problem at all, I just thought
    that FLS6 could have some issues with 64 bit OS and wanted to ask Adam if they
    were thinking about it in advance. That's all. Cause (theoretically) if something
    is not made to be used in another environment, then there might be a chance that
    something goes wrong. But it's cool to know that FLS 5.x works fine."
  created: '2012-01-19 14:02:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Tourdeforce, \r\n\r\nMost applications made for Windows are 32-bit. Also
    many Mac OS X applications are 32-bit (although the OS is natively 64 bit since
    10.6). For example, Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Skype, Adobe InDesign CS5,
    Adobe Illustrator CS5 and many many others. They all work fine on a 64-bit system.
    As far as I could tell, FontLab Studio 5.1 (Mac) and 5.0.4 (Win) work well there
    as well. \r\n\r\nThe only slight complication is when you heavily use Python and
    C-compiled modules. Some C-compiled modules made for Python may be 64-bit only
    (though it's still a rarity). Or at the very least you need to be aware of that
    -- so for example, on Windows 7 64-bit, you need to install the 32-bit version
    of Python 2.4 rather than the 64-bit version. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-01-19 14:36:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Frank, \r\n\r\nWhich OS is this? Which FLS? Which rasterizer is selected? "
  created: '2012-01-19 14:37:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Mac, Lion, FLS 5.1.1, MS Greyscale rasterizer. And while you\u2019re talking:
    why didn\u2019t you include the Cleartype rasterizer? Who but me hints for Standard
    GDI anymore?"
  created: '2012-01-19 14:57:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Frank, \r\n\r\nintegrating ClearType requires more development work. Given
    the pressure (release of Mac OS X 10.7 Lion), we decided to postpone that to FontLab
    Studio 6. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-19 17:53:40'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Adam said:\r\n\r\n<cite>> Many people are used to it, they're very proficient
    in the tool but have been asking for more than just UFO.\r\n<cite>> The new product
    will initially be more in the same realm as Glyphs or RoboFab, I suppose. Only
    with time, it (or perhaps a separate tool) may also cover other parts which are
    currently unique to FLS. \xB6 With UFO, fortunately, we can have interoperability
    between all these products.\r\n\r\nAdam, I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s a good
    idea to ask this at this moment, but I am trying to figure out if UFO native support
    is planned for FLS6 or if it will be available only for \u201CFLS7\u201D."
  created: '2012-01-21 20:11:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Clearly, ufo support must be part of FLS-6.  Interoperability between all
    players in the industry is a must.\r\n\r\nI assume this would also affect the
    way FLS deals with tables.  Mostly, the way class key glyphs are notated. Instead
    of requiring the foot marker as an indicator, why not just the first glyph in
    the list in the class?"
  created: '2012-01-21 20:59:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Cristobal, \r\n\r\nas per Tal's recommendation, we definitely want to have
    UFO2 support in FontLab Studio 6. \"FLS7\" will likely support both UFO2 and UFO3.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2012-01-22 16:43:42'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWhy is it a limitation for FontLab to support only integer coordinates?
    Is there any font format that supports non-integer coordinates? And if not, why
    should a font editor do?"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:17:15'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWhy is it a limitation for FontLab to support only integer coordinates?
    Is there any font format that supports non-integer coordinates? And if not, why
    should a font editor do?"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:18:00'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nWhy is it a limitation for FontLab to support only integer coordinates?
    Is there any font format that supports non-integer coordinates? And if not, why
    should a font editor do?"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:23:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As many Fontographer old-timers will tell you, using fractional\r\ncoordinates
    will only cause trouble. It gives you an illusion of\r\naccuracy while destroying
    actual accuracy. Just increase the EM.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:31:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ori, \r\n\r\ntheoretically, OpenType PS (.otf) supports fractional coordinates,
    but there are some technical caveats associated with it. In principle, we could
    say that the final font formats only support integer coordinates but during the
    work process, having fractional coordinates would be helpful. \r\n\r\nFor example,
    if you have drawn your glyphs on an integer grid, but then you'd like to make
    some adjustments such as: make it slightly more narrow, then slightly wider, then
    perhaps slant it by a few degrees and then slant it back, or make some tiny rotations,
    or maybe scale the glyph down and then up again -- on an integer grid, the result
    will have accumulated the rounding errors from every one of these operations.
    On a fractional grid, all your shapes (the positions of the BCPs, the angles,
    the stem thicknesses etc.) will always remain just as in the original design.
    \r\n\r\nTherefore, a hardwired integer grid such as the one in FontLab Studio
    does impose a certain limitation onto the type designer. A fractional grid such
    as the one in Fontographer allows you to avoid those rounding errors. But of course,
    at the very end, when you decide to generate or ship the font, you'll need to
    align your points to an integer grid, or the software will do this for you. \r\n\r\nHopefully
    that helps to answer your question! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:34:30'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "Thanks, Adam, you make a very good point.\r\n\r\n(Sorry I've posted my previous
    comment three times, I didn't realize I was doing that.)"
  created: '2012-02-05 23:11:14'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "Are there any news about FL 6? It is gonna be released in the next 3 or 6
    years? \r\n"
  created: '2013-08-10 12:27:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think ridicule is going to speed things up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-10 14:35:26'
- author:
    name: Lasko Dzurovski
    picture: 115244
  body: "Any news about FL 6?\r\n\r\nThank you"
  created: '2013-09-06 05:54:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not to make light of the indefinite delays, but I thought this was both comical
    and cogent:\r\nhttp://fuckyeahtypefacedesign.tumblr.com/post/61863698353/its-not-the-tool-holmes#notes\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-22 04:22:38'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Hrant, its gone!
  created: '2013-10-27 19:54:45'
- author:
    name: yaneczech
    picture: 122247
  body: "Dear Adam,\r\nI would appreciate some news about the state of development
    as well... (news about beta testing would sound great) :) I am considering switching
    to Glyphs, but I am used to FL...\r\nThank you\r\n\r\nJan Janecek"
  created: '2013-12-18 21:54:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dave, I guess the owner of FYTD is in bed with some/all of the SuperRoboGlyphsPolator
    people and/or Dunwich Type. Cronyism - yay!\r\n\r\nBTW since then there's been
    another moral failing:\r\nhttp://fuckyeahtypefacedesign.tumblr.com/post/67465965024/i-put-so-much-effort-into-as-well#notes\r\nIt
    turns out James Raftopoulos \u2013the winner of the competition\u2013 submitted
    no such thing. Libel - yay!\r\n\r\nAfter all, what use is ethical behavior if
    it obstructs a cheap laugh, right?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAnd what Jan said.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-12-18 22:37:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I have given up waiting, and now use RoboFont on a Mac. I really, really,
    <em>really</em> wanted to go on using an updated FontLab (and by no means am I
    an Apple fan boy), but I also need un-rusty, modern tools. (I guess FontLab 6
    now will be released in a month or so, given my usual luck.)
  created: '2014-02-12 18:01:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'It is so very sad that two of the things I really loved the most about type
    and type drawing, FontLab and Typophile, are both dying (or so it seems). '
  created: '2014-02-12 18:03:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sindre,\r\nI hope you are finding other things to fill the void you feel."
  created: '2014-02-12 18:08:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Yes, I''ve taken to the bottle. '
  created: '2014-02-12 19:29:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Then, Salud! or perhaps Skaal?
  created: '2014-02-12 20:34:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sindre, I think Typophile has picked up. FontLab: I remain hopeful; the fact
    that they're still sponsoring conferences is a good sign.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-12 21:03:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Sk\xE5l! (There is only Darjeeling in my cup, but it does have a noticeable
    muscatel flavour, so I can pretend it is a Sauternes or something.)\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if type designers at large have abandoned FontLab now for lack of updates, by
    the way. "
  created: '2014-02-12 21:20:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I remain hopeful too, Hrant, and will definitely upgrade if/when it comes
    out. A UFO-supporting FL6 could easily be integrated into a RoboFont-based workflow,
    as I really want the best from both worlds. I am so used to the very good drawing
    tools of FontLab that I still prefer them.  '
  created: '2014-02-12 21:26:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: FontLab has been re-architecting themselves on a new codebase. TransType 4
    is the first app to come out using the new codebase. I imagine we will hear more
    soon.
  created: '2014-02-17 20:27:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: soon?
  created: '2014-02-17 20:49:20'
- author:
    name: David Somers
    picture: 112015
  body: It would be great if FL6 was out this year... but their "re-architecting"
    seems to be taking a very very very long time (just look how old this thread is!)...
    TransType 4, which uses the new codebase did appear and does show some promise
    (its blazingly fast)... but I'm highly confused by the recent release of FontLab
    Pad because I'd rather see FL6 first. So, perhaps something soon... perhaps...
    maybe... pretty please?
  created: '2014-02-18 20:05:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What I like most about TransType 4 is not just the speed, but the really
    first-rate UI.  :)\r\n\r\nI've been doing a little work for the FontLab folks,
    but I can\u2019t reveal product plans. I will just say that I have reviewed a
    lot of specs."
  created: '2014-02-18 22:52:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good news, Thomas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-19 02:12:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Every time I see Adam, which is usually at least once a year, I ask for a
    progress report. The good news is that there is always progress, and some of it
    is very cool. The bad news, from my perspective, is that updating to FontLab 6
    might require as much of a re-investment in Python scripting as switching to RoboFont
    or Glyphs.\r\n\r\nThis is mostly guesswork, but I think FontLab are a little wrong-footed
    by the recent advent of competition in the primary glyph tool category from RoboFont
    and Glyphs, just as they were previously wrong-footed by the initial poor implementation
    of the Mac version of FontLab Studio, which contributed to the development of
    that competition. It took a lot of effort from what I understand to be a reduced
    team to remake a stable version of FLS for Mac, and that is part of the reason
    why 'Victoria' -- the new code architecture for FontLab 6 -- has been delayed.
    Remember, FontLab has always been primarily a Windows tool and only secondarily
    ported to Mac. I was reflecting recently that it was about 20 years ago that I
    saw an ad in a desktop publishing magazine and bought my first license for FontLab
    2.5. It was good, and successive (Windows) versions of FontLab have remained good.
    Current trends favour more openly scriptable object structures, which is a good
    thing, but it terms of core functionality FLS remains better than any other tool
    I have tried, and even with its current scripting model fits nicely into my sfnt-centric
    workflow. I also remain impressed by the size and performance of the VFB source
    format, even for large fonts of the kinds I regularly build, compared to UFO,
    which contains less information in much larger files and takes ages to load even
    in dedicated UFO tools. While I can understand why people are keen for a version
    of FontLab that natively handles UFO files, I'd like to see the VFB format open-sourced
    and supported in UFO tools."
  created: '2014-02-19 03:16:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...a little wrong-footed...\"\r\n\r\nA kind of Hobbit. But if you call
    them that, they shout, \"We're Little Wrong-Feets!\"\r\n\r\nCurrent trends favour
    more openly scriptable object structures, but only if extendable. Is that VFB
    or sfnt?\r\n\r\nTime management concerned with figurative \"ages to load\", while
    waiting literally \"years to do\", seem reasonable?\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-19 13:32:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I do not notice any difference in loading time between UFO and VFB files
    on my 3 year old Mac.\r\n\r\nThe only time I notice quickly is when there is a
    software or bug issue that prevents me from working well and efficiently.  Whatever
    FontLab does to make Victoria dance needs to be rock solid above all.  I much
    prefer rock solid to glitzy and cute features.  The main feature that needs attention
    is search and replace.\r\n\r\nI have licensed and support the further development
    of the 3 major players, FontLab, Robofont, and Glyphs and hope they all prosper
    and have a lovely synergistic competition among themselves. Competition is vital.
    \ We can never trust putting all of our eggs in one basket again.  I have seen
    this in Quark, Adobe, FontLab, Apple, and Microsoft.  When a product becomes the
    default standard, developers get complacent and the user gets screwed.  May healthy
    competition thrive and keep all parties active and honest."
  created: '2014-02-19 15:57:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the hobbits did save the day in the end.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-19 16:36:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "We\u2019ve been releasing the things first which were ready first. \r\n\r\nTransType
    4 was primarily made so that we could test the fully rewritten and modernized
    import/export infrastructure (OTF, TTF, EOT, WOFF, SVG, VFB, UFO and all the other
    formats, including conversions between them). We basically wanted the \u201Cgear\u201D
    done and stable \u2014 before releasing a follow-up to FontLab Studio. We figured,
    it\u2019s more important to have a tool with limited functionality which generates
    good fonts than to have a tool with full functionality that generates bad fonts.
    \r\n\r\nFontLab Pad was done because it was very easy \u2014 it\u2019s essentially
    the Preview panel of TransType. In the same vein, we wanted to have a tool for
    ourselves \u2014 a testing app for the color fonts in all the relevant formats
    (sbix, COLR, SVG). \r\n\r\nWe\u2019re heavily under way on glyph editing right
    now. The lack of my activity here on Typophile and other forums actually indicates
    that we\u2019re working hard. \r\n\r\nWe\u2019ll start publishing pre-release
    versions of our new font editor in the next months. \r\n\r\nYou\u2019ll love it,
    and you\u2019ll be blown away :) \r\n\r\nA."
  children:
  - author:
      name: The Mack
    body: "\"Fontlab Pad was . .  very easy . . .\"   \r\n\r\nSo is it the fault of
      Fontlab Pad or TransType that kerning doesn't work on Photofonts?\r\n\r\nSurely
      a glaring omission, considering the euphoria Fontlab seemingly displayed with
      the whole Photofont thing? "
    created: '2014-05-18 01:16:48'
  created: '2014-02-26 15:37:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love it when loyalty pays off. Hopefully soon!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-26 16:57:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I recently purchased TransType 4 because i had a large number of fonts to
    generate. Overall, I have been very pleased with the results, except...\r\n\r\nwhen
    TTF fonts are run through Font Validator, these error messages appear 100% of
    the time...\r\n\r\nW0020\u2014Tables are not in optimal order: table 'glyf' precedes
    table 'loca' \r\n\r\nOS/2\r\nE2132\u2014The version number is invalid: 4 \r\nE2127\u2014The
    table length does not match the expected length for this version  \r\nW0051\u2014Cannot
    perform test due to other errors in this table: OS/2 table appears to be corrupt.
    No further tests will be performed. \r\n\r\ngasp\r\nE1003\u2014The version number
    is not 0: 1 \r\nE1000\u2014Some rangeGaspBehavior fields contain invalid flags
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-26 17:20:17'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: 'Only used TransType a couple of times since I got the update but like others
    it is very zippy and seems to work well. '
  created: '2014-02-26 18:17:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nMicrosoft Font Validator has not been updated in a long time.
    The OS/2 table version 4 and the gasp table version 1 have been added to the OpenType
    standard after the release of Font Validator, so the complaints related to OS/2
    and gasp are all a false alarm. The tables are correct. \r\n\r\nAs for the \"W0020\u2014Tables
    are not in optimal order: table 'glyf' precedes table 'loca'\" warning, it's by
    no means critical but we'll look into it. \r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2014-02-26 18:25:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, with regard to the table order warning, this is a test that Microsoft
    put into Font Validator based on performance testing that they did in the 1990s.
    If the tables are in a particular order, Windows can do some things faster. If
    you're concerned about this, you can run the FastFont command line tool from MS
    on your fonts, which will put the tables in the 'optimal' order.\r\n\r\nAdam,
    I don't know if the preferred table order is published anywhere, but you presumably
    run FastFont on a font and then look what the resulting table order is. If your
    new tools would write that order by default, it would save us a post-productions
    step."
  created: '2014-02-27 07:46:07'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'It is mentioned in the OT spec''s recommendations: https://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/recom.htm
    Search for section ''Optimized Table Ordering''.'
  created: '2014-02-27 12:46:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI routinely use FastFont to order the tables correctly, and
    it's a breeze: simply drop the font filename onto fastfont.exe, and it does the
    job in the blink of an eye. During my latest rounds of updating, I had to do this
    over 600 times, which became a bit tedious. I pointed out the anomaly in order
    to to save others the effort, because it seems to me that the fix should be easy."
  created: '2014-02-27 14:27:26'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Nick: \u2018<em>[\u2026] I had to do this over 600 times, which became a
    bit tedious.</em>\u2019\r\n\r\nTBH, I never used FastFont, but just had a look
    at it. Actually you can make a shell script for FastFont (using a listing of all
    your .ttf \uFB01les). This is a bit less tedious ;-)\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2014-02-27 15:44:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Great, great news. So looking forward.
  created: '2014-03-01 15:11:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: I'm looking forward to the new FL release. Working on my latest typeface I
    have a set of swashes. I have been laboriously copying from 'results' in the Open
    Type Features Preview panel, then pasting into the Metrics panel to do the class
    kerning. It would be great if any features results could be incorporated into
    the main metrics panel for ease of editing. That would be a huge improvement.
  created: '2014-03-03 11:50:41'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: 'Nick, while you wait, there is this: http://typedrawers.com/discussion/581/simple-kerning-pairs-builder-helper-tool#latest'
  created: '2014-03-04 01:06:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: 'That''s very nifty Pablo. Thanks, it will come in very handy for those pesky
    extras. '
  created: '2014-03-09 08:00:53'
date: '2010-07-27 21:00:36'
title: Adam Twardoch -- FontLab 6?

---
