---
author:
  name: Nick Sherman
  picture: 112002
body: "Cooper Union's new typeface design program, organized in conjunction with the
  Type Directors Club was just recently announced. It is currently a certificate program
  offered through Cooper's continuing education department. The new website has all
  the info on curriculum, faculty bios, and application details:\r\nhttp://coopertype.org/\r\n\r\nWhile
  there have been many type design workshops and classes offered in North America
  before, this is the first program of its kind to take place on the continent. Having
  moved to New York not too long ago myself, I must say I can't think of a better
  city to hold such a program in \u2013 if for nothing else than to have access to
  such a vast pool of talented type folks living in the area.\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
  Cooper Union and the Type Directors Club couldn't be much better organizations to
  have involved. Among other things, Cooper has made typography a priority with their
  Herb Lubalin Study Center of Design and Typography, and the TDC's annual typeface
  awards are among the most notable in the industry. Plus it goes without saying that
  both have long typographic histories that include some of the greats of American
  type, lettering, and design.\r\n\r\nThe <a href=http://coopertype.org/curriculum/>course
  list</a> and <a href=http://coopertype.org/faculty/>roster of people involved</a>
  for the first term alone is quite impressive (not to mention surprisingly diverse),
  and I'm sure the second and third terms will be just as good. More information will
  be posted on the site as it becomes available.\r\n\r\nI apologize for shamelessly
  tooting the horn of a project I'm obviously involved with, but I'm really excited
  about it and thought some of you might be as well. As always, I'm appreciative of
  any feedback \u2013 critical or otherwise \u2013 and am happy to answer any questions.\r\n<!--break-->\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Congrats to you, Jesse, and crew for getting this off the ground. Sounds
    exciting. If I were 25 years younger, I\u2019d definitely be considering this. "
  created: '2010-07-28 12:39:02'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: 'Congratulations you guys. I am very excited about this program. I would love
    it if the brand new website might grow a blog like appendage that allowed the
    general public i.e. nosy me, to follow the ongoing projects. But first: Bravo
    again!'
  created: '2010-07-28 14:13:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Looks great!
  created: '2010-07-28 15:07:28'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "I'm considering taking part in this, or applying at least.\r\n\r\nI'm moving
    to NY after this summer, so I think it would be a great opportunity to seize.\r\n\r\nJust
    two questions: How long is the program, and are they evening classes?"
  created: '2010-07-28 16:53:28'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "This is wonderful news!\r\n\r\nI hope this is just the beginning of a revolution
    and understanding of typography and design.\r\n\r\nMuch anticipated and way overdo.\r\n\r\nI
    wish everyone associated with this new venture much success.\r\n\r\nCongratulations!!!
    Very exciting.\r\n\r\nPS\u2014Maybe now someone will write an article: 'The benefits
    of type design in every aspect of our lives', instead of that dreadful article:
    'Do typefaces really matter'. "
  created: '2010-07-28 17:22:40'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> Just two questions: How long is the program\r\n\r\nhttp://coopertype.org/\r\n\u201CEach
    of three terms (fall, spring, and summer) runs 10 weeks, starting with the fall
    term from October 4th to December 7th, 2010.\u201D\r\n\r\n> and are they evening
    classes?\r\n\r\n\u201CCore classes meet on Monday and Tuesday evenings plus one
    weekend per term, and elective classes meet on weekends during the day.\u201D\r\n\r\nMore
    info: http://coopertype.org/curriculum/"
  created: '2010-07-28 20:24:39'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: I saw both of those, but I was looking for more specific info... is it just
    a 1 year program or will it extend? And what time in the evening? Thanks for trying,
    though :) I suppose I should have been more specific.
  created: '2010-07-29 06:45:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Very cool. Great to see something like this in the United States, and NYC
    in general and Cooper Union in particular are excellent places to do it. I'm looking
    forward to hearing more about this!\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-07-29 08:35:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Steven,\r\n\r\n> is it just a 1 year program or will it extend?\r\n\r\nhttp://coopertype.org/application/\r\n\"The
    fall term runs from October 3 to December 7, and the program continues for two
    additional terms, Spring and Summer.\"\r\n\r\n> And what time in the evening?\r\n\r\nThe
    times are given for each class on the curriculum page:\r\nhttp://coopertype.org/curriculum/\r\n\r\nHope
    that answers your questions! If not, feel free to e-mail type@cooper.edu for more
    immediate and official feedback."
  created: '2010-07-29 14:28:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Congrats! Looks great!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-07-29 15:55:37'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "This is good news indeed! Congratulations and all the best for success to
    Jesse, Alexander, and all the visiting people. \r\n\r\nTypeface Design is growing
    as a discipline, and the spread of dedicated programs of study worldwide, as opposed
    to modules within general design courses, is a great indication of a maturing
    field (SCAD, Bs-As, Zurich, Barcelona, FADU, Amiens, Pueblas... I'm forgetting
    some, I'm sure). Well done to the CU for hosting the new programme, the institution
    has a great tradition to build on, and is a natural candidate for a full-length
    program in the States.\r\n\r\n \r\n  "
  created: '2010-07-29 16:15:59'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: Awesome, thanks for pointing that out to me, Nick. Apparently I'm blind haha.
    Still weighing options on this, but keep an eye out for my application :)
  created: '2010-07-29 19:47:13'
- author:
    name: Jesse Ragan
    picture: 110402
  body: "Thanks for posting, Nick. And thanks, everyone, for the positive response.\r\n\r\nCara
    Di Edwardo, Alexander Tochilovsky, and I have been working with Cooper and the
    TDC to get this going, and we're pleased to be able to offer a more intensive
    typeface design program here in New York. We'll keep an eye on this discussion
    and are happy to answer your questions about the curriculum and admissions process.
    \r\n\r\nAs Nick pointed out, we are eager to maintain the diversity of our offerings
    through the course of the three terms. So we also welcome proposals from potential
    guest lecturers or workshop leaders. "
  created: '2010-07-29 20:42:38'
- author:
    name: abi
    picture: 111936
  body: Congrats on getting this course underway Jesse. I look forward to seeing the
    results from the course, and some of the guest lecturers and workshops you've
    lined up for the course sound great. It's really too bad I'm not in NYC anymore.
  created: '2010-07-29 21:04:31'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Thanks to all who are cheering us on and for all the support many of you
    have offered in the planning phase, especially Hannes who should be credited for
    the idea in the first place. Also to John for holding me to such a high standard.
    \r\n\r\nPlease direct the 'official' questions about the program through the type@cooper.edu
    website so we can centralize inquiries. We'll try and get a FAQ page up as we
    figure out all the questions people have. Already I've gotten inquiries about
    student visas for foreign nationals and I can't answer that one just yet, but
    I'm working on it so stand by. There's something on the State Department website
    that makes it very confusing so I have to seek a consult from our Undergrad admissions
    people. Standby for that answer. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-30 00:16:32'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: I hope this turns into an MA program sometime in the next 4 years. That would
    be truly amazing to have an alternative to Reading and KABK in the States.
  created: '2010-07-30 01:43:25'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite> hope this turns into an MA program sometime in the next 4 years. </cite>\r\n\r\nGiven
    that Cooper Union is Cooper Union, I don't think that is going to happen."
  created: '2010-07-30 02:35:38'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: "@terminaldesign\r\n\r\nI'm not following. I don't know much about CU, so
    excuse my ignorance haha. Explain?"
  created: '2010-07-30 05:39:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-07-30 06:52:00'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: ">I hope this turns into an MA program sometime in the next 4 years. \r\n\r\nIt
    is our thought that as a certificate program, with a less demanding work load
    than a Masters program, Type@Cooper would appeal to many working designers, giving
    them the practical skills and a broad view of typeface design history and theory
    at an affordable price. \r\n\r\nThe format of having electives and guest speakers
    available to folks outside the program will allow graduates of the program to
    stay connected (beyond the one year) to both the offerings of Type@Cooper and
    the TDC. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-01 00:38:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I hope this turns into an MA program sometime in the next 4 years.
    That would be truly amazing to have an alternative to Reading and KABK in the
    States.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy? It\u2019s not like having and MA is a huge advantage
    in the design field. Sure it might make getting a type design job a little easier,
    but they\u2019re still so incredibly rare that it\u2019s a pretty big gamble.
    It makes sense to have another option for people who don\u2019t want to put an
    enormous amount of time and money into what\u2019s really vocational training."
  created: '2010-08-01 01:56:48'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Sure it might make getting a type design job a little easier,</cite>\r\n\r\nYour
    kidding, right?"
  created: '2010-08-01 03:12:09'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Your kidding, right?</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m quite sure that on the
    rare occasions type design jobs come up preference is shown to people with MAs. "
  created: '2010-08-01 04:06:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And I'm quite sure that the job goes to the people that show the best work
    with the best experience for the position. Regardless of degree.
  created: '2010-08-01 13:40:30'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: "I wouldn't necessarily be seeking an MA in type design to further my career.
    It'd be more for the immersive learning environment and the experience. To dedicate
    an entire year or so to type design is a pretty big undertaking with not too much
    reward. But the undertaking would be considerably less of a burden if the States
    had an MA program of its own.\r\n\r\nGranted, you don't need an MA to be a successful
    type designer, but I don't think many people go into it with the impression it
    will make them one of the best.\r\n\r\ncdiedwardo makes a great point though.
    the Cooper program may end up being just as popular, if not more than Reading
    and KABK simply for the fact that it is not as much of an undertaking. Also, with
    the location being what it is, that's an undeniable attraction since it will be
    so close to so many designers."
  created: '2010-08-01 21:26:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think you may be overestimating the interest in type design amongst the
    NYC design community. There have been many Type Design programs offered via Continuing
    Ed, over the years in NYC, with very modest attendance.\r\n\r\nI can understand
    someone making the commitment to a graduate program and moving to a location to
    spend a year involved in that course of study. A Continuing Education program
    by its part-time nature must draw on local interest. I just wonder how strong
    that local interest really is. Here's to hoping I'm wrong. "
  created: '2010-08-02 02:22:37'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Why are you not teaching James? And what about Paul?
  created: '2010-08-03 01:31:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I was not invited to teach at the Cooper program.\r\n\r\nI am teaching undergraduate
    type design at Parsons during the Spring semesters and Typeface Design in SVA's
    Continuing Ed program in both Fall and Spring semesters.\r\n\r\nI do not know
    whether Paul was asked to teach at Cooper or not.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-03 02:00:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Wasted resources in NY! Well at least Parsons got you :-)
  created: '2010-08-03 02:04:37'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: 'How there''s room for ire in this conversation I do not know. This program
    is great news for everyone: foundries looking to hire (hello), type designers
    wanting to teach, Cooper Union itself, type education generally, and most importantly
    the students. It would have been fantastic to have such a program available when
    I was shopping for colleges, and it''s a boon to the designers of today and tomorrow
    that it exists. Hats off to all involved.'
  created: '2010-08-03 20:19:06'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: 'PS: James, as an instructor you''re more familiar with type offerings in
    NYC than I am, but the class that our own Sara Soskolne taught at SVA last month
    was packed, and sold out. People were e-mailing our sales desk hoping to find
    a way to sneak in; let''s hope this bodes well for the success of Cooper''s program.'
  created: '2010-08-03 20:23:20'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: That is good news Jonathan. I do hope that the program is successful. I do
    wonder if the attendance of a week-long workshop will translate to a semester-long
    program. Hoping it does.
  created: '2010-08-03 21:19:10'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Looks fantastic. \r\n\r\nI have just asked by email whether the course will
    also be available by webcast and email."
  created: '2010-08-03 21:23:19'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: ">webcast \r\n\r\nNothing like that is planned, nor has it been discussed
    as an option.\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 00:14:14'
- author:
    name: Jesse Ragan
    picture: 110402
  body: "Thank you for your encouraging words, Jonathan. \r\n\r\n> a semester-long
    program\r\n\r\nJames, just to clarify, the program is actually <em>three</em>
    terms long, ten weeks per term. Students will be awarded certificates only after
    successfully completing the full three terms. I understand your concern\u2014it
    is indeed a big investment of time (though far less than a full Master's program).
    In this uncharted territory, it's difficult to predict the student base. But we're
    optimistic, since we've received a substantial amount of interest already."
  created: '2010-08-04 02:22:35'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: James... that was a compliment to you. And I intended no ire JH!
  created: '2010-08-04 02:51:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Jesse, it may be better to start with making a simple sans serif, to teach
    basic skills and principles, rather than a revival.\r\n\r\nThere are too many
    issues involving subtle drawing in a revival, especially, as is likely the case,
    if you are reviving a serifed face.\r\n\r\nThe fundamental principles are sidebearings,
    alignment zones/overshoot, vertical proportions and stem widths, and these are
    easiest to grasp in a plain sans serif.\r\n\r\nBesides, starting with a revival
    sets a prosaic tone for a type design course. \r\nIt's overly academic, like art
    school in the 19th century, where the subject of drawing classes was a plaster
    cast of an old statue.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 05:02:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Jesse, it may be better to start with making a simple sans serif, to
    teach basic skills and principles, rather than a revival.</cite>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    give him any idea! I\u2019m going to have finished of a family of 24 sans fonts
    right before that class starts and I don\u2019t want to start another one for
    a least a couple months."
  created: '2010-08-04 05:41:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think you can teach basic principles and skills with any style of letter.
    It has been my experience teaching this that the best result comes from allowing
    the student to explore any style letter they choose (With some guidance). \r\n\r\nMost
    people come to a type design course with an idea they are interested in exploring.
    Having different styles being developed in class adds to a certain visual richness,
    and allows the instructor to point out issues that emerge from the different styles.
    \r\n\r\nI've had students start with blackletter, handwriting, sans serif, serif,
    historical revival, carnival/circus type, tombstone lettering, western lettering,
    various styles of formal calligraphy, and more. All of those styles, and the problems
    they presented to the student designers were great teaching opportunities for
    the entire class.\r\n\r\nThanks Michael, I did take it as a complement, and sensed
    no ire.\r\n\r\nJesse, I don't doubt that there is great interest in the program.
    I hope that interest continues after the first year or two. Time will tell. Good
    luck. \r\n\r\nIt will probably be harder to fill my Tuesday night SVA Continuing
    Ed type design course now that you guys are in town, but we will see!"
  created: '2010-08-04 13:08:25'
- author:
    name: elms
    picture: 112580
  body: Excellent initiative for type education! This will make type design more accessible
    to designers in the west, especially to designers in the Caribbean region.
  created: '2010-08-04 15:08:36'
- author:
    name: Jesse Ragan
    picture: 110402
  body: "Thank you, Nick and James, for sharing the benefit of your teaching experiences.
    \r\n\r\nThat's a good point, Nick, but I tend to agree more with James's sentiments.
    The basic principles can be taught with almost any style of letter, and the diversity
    of classmates' projects will be instructive to students. \r\n\r\nOver the years
    in my undergraduate typeface design class at Pratt, I've let students choose between
    revivals and original designs. The most important thing is that students choose
    projects that can maintain their enthusiasm through many, many hours of potentially
    tedious work. But I've found that most beginner students reach better results
    when working from some kind of source material. Sources have ranged from a few
    words on a WPA poster to a full alphabet in a Deberny & Peignot specimen (with
    permission, of course), and interpretations have ranged from \"recuttings\" to
    \"reconsiderations\" ([[http://www.emigre.com/Editorial.php?sect=2&id=1|John Downer's
    terms]]). I encourage students to work on designs that fit their skill levels
    and interests, and a simple sans serif may be just the thing for some of them.\r\n\r\nFor
    students who are less familiar with type anatomy, working from a source provides
    the opportunity to learn, through critical observation and meticulous reconstruction,
    key principles like letter proportion, weight distribution, and maintaining/breaking
    a system. And since many variables have already been established in the sources,
    students are able to focus more attention on the fundamental principles Nick mentions.
    \r\n\r\nIt's true that a beginning designer may not be fully prepared to handle
    a revival with the nuance and care that it deserves. But the goal in the first
    term is to learn, not to produce the best possible product. (How many designers'
    first attempts at typefaces have been masterpieces, anyway?) We have the luxury
    of three terms, and the larger project in the second and third terms will provide
    the opportunity to design a more finessed finished project.\r\n\r\nAnd James,
    I certainly hope Type@Cooper won't detract from your SVA CE enrollment. I expect
    the difference in time commitment makes your class far more feasible for some
    students. Let's hope there's room for both!"
  created: '2010-08-04 15:26:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James (Dunwich), as a bona fide type designer and the proprietor of a type
    foundry, you can probably skip the introductory assignment :-)\r\n\r\nJames (Terminal),
    sure, you can teach skills from anything, but in my experience, having taught
    both ways, it's a more solid start to keep it simple.\r\nIf everyone is pursuing
    their own script or circus font or some such thing, many are going to have difficulty
    grasping the fundamentals around which most Type 1 fonts are structured.\r\n\r\nThe
    basic principle of spacing/sidebearings is succinctly demonstrated in a sans serif,
    visually and numerically, but that is not the case with a serifed type:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lov_6521.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lov2_4767.png]\r\n\r\nThey
    are going to get a chance to do their own thing in terms two and three.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 15:36:10'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>If everyone is pursuing their own script or circus font or some such
    thing, many are going to have difficulty grasping the fundamentals around which
    most Type 1 fonts are structured.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes they are going to have difficulty,
    but they get a great deal of satisfaction when they do get it right.\r\n\r\nAnd
    an entire class doing a geometric sans would be the kiss of death from a student
    enthusiasm point of view. Face it, type design is a tedious pastime and anything
    you can do to keep a student engaged in the process is a good thing. Everyone
    staring at one another's geo sans would not be a good thing."
  created: '2010-08-04 15:51:24'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Nice to see there are more type design opportunities springing up. Here's
    hoping interest eventually leads to a full-time Master's program at some point
    in the states.\r\n\r\nI wish all my type peeps success in these great continuing
    ed options. Kudos!"
  created: '2010-08-04 15:58:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>And an entire class doing a geometric sans would be the kiss of death
    from a student enthusiasm point of view. </em>\r\n\r\nI've tried that, and was
    surprised at the individuality of student responses. This was in a general design
    course, and for such students, giving them all the same clearly defined project
    had many advantages, compared to the do-your-own thing approach, where the biggest
    problem, which always ended up confounding several, was that they didn't have
    an idea of what they wanted to do. After all, as 'designers' they were used to
    working from briefs, not creating their own. \r\n\r\nBut isn't motivation irrelevant
    here? As you yourself have often mentioned on Typophile, type design is indeed
    a \"tedious\" pursuit, so wouldn't one expect students of this course to be sufficiently
    steeled for that, and admitted to the course accordingly? \r\n\r\nJesse: <em>The
    most important thing is that students choose projects that can maintain their
    enthusiasm through many, many hours of potentially tedious work. But I've found
    that most beginner students reach better results when working from some kind of
    source material. \r\n\r\nBut this is a specialist course for those committed to
    type design, not part of a general design course. Aren't students being admitted
    on the recognition that they are type-designer material, i.e. (a) they are suited
    to grinding out massive OpenType fonts and (b) they have some original ideas for
    typefaces?"
  created: '2010-08-04 16:09:26'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>As you yourself have often mentioned on Typophile, type design is indeed
    a \"tedious\" pursuit, so wouldn't one expect students of this course to be sufficiently
    steeled for that, and admitted to the course accordingly?</cite>\r\n\r\nStudents
    in Continuing Ed seem to know what they are getting into, but most undergraduate
    students have no idea what they are in for when they sign up for the course. All
    have told me that it was much more work than they expected. Some have admitted
    that they hated it and never wanted to do it again. I think finding out what you
    don't want to do as a designer may be more important than finding out what you
    want to do. And regardless of a student's expectation, isn't keeping a student
    motivated one of the key tasks of the instructor?"
  created: '2010-08-04 16:19:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... isn't keeping a student motivated one of the key tasks of the instructor?</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't an undergraduate course: \"The certificate program is designed for those
    with undergraduate or professional experience in graphic design, typography, or
    related fields.\"\r\n\r\nI haven't seen the prospective students, but I would
    imagine that they already have plenty of motivation, given how overdue a course
    like this is in North America.\r\n\r\nIf they couldn't hack a first-term project
    making a sans serif font, they will find out in a hurry type design is something
    they don't want to do!"
  created: '2010-08-04 17:01:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"I think finding out what you don't want to do as a designer may be more
    important than finding out what you want to do.\"\r\n\r\nThat is without a doubt
    one of the most salient points I have seen in ages! And so true. How many of us
    have shed those \"don't wanna dos\" as we plod forward! "
  created: '2010-08-04 17:41:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If you insist on having everyone do a geo sans design as a first project,
    I'd suggest having them finish UC, lc, figures and basic punctuation in the first
    two weeks, after all they are highly motivated students who have waited their
    entire lifetime for a course like this to emerge in North America. \r\n\r\nI think
    the least you can do is demand that they finish a simple geo sans in two weeks.
    Most professionals should be able to do one over the weekend. They might as well
    get use to the work load and time frame that is expected of them as professionals."
  created: '2010-08-04 18:29:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Two weeks?\r\nDespite their commitment, it might take some students a few
    days longer longer to realize that the crossbar on \"f\" usually lines up with
    the x-height..."
  created: '2010-08-04 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Despite their commitment, it might take some students a few days longer
    longer to realize that the crossbar on \"f\" usually lines up with the x-height...</cite>\r\n\r\nAnyone
    who can\u2019t get through Leslie Cabarga\u2019s tutorial on drawing a geometric
    sans from stroked paths in two weeks really shouldn\u2019t be in a type design
    program!"
  created: '2010-08-04 20:42:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em> I think finding out what you don't want to do as a designer may be more
    important than finding out what you want to do. </em>\r\n\r\nOh my Lord, <strong>yes</strong>.\r\n\r\nNick/James:
    I think the only way this can be settled is through...dun...dun...dun...\r\n\r\nAn
    <strong>Iron Type Designer</strong> competition! Students complete a 256 character
    font in a week. Go!\r\n\r\n(Being facetious of course.) :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 21:37:49'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: No sense in that when JP can do it all and do it so fast :-)
  created: '2010-08-04 22:52:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm on the side of having people do something that will keep them motivated.\r\n\r\nIt's
    been a long time since I taught this stuff. When I last did, I had folks working
    on a revival of Radiant. But if I had it to do over again, I'd let them pick their
    own project at least to a significant degree. Maybe steering them away from circus
    lettering and script faces.  :)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-08-05 06:00:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>And James, I certainly hope Type@Cooper won't detract from your SVA
    CE enrollment. I expect the difference in time commitment makes your class far
    more feasible for some students. Let's hope there's room for both!</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nWell
    Jesse I hope you are right. SVA has posted my [[http://www.schoolofvisualarts.edu/ceCourseFinder/app?sDay=T&sTime=0&sLoc=&sDept=&sCourse=&sInstructor=montalbano&sKeyword=|type
    design course]] for registration for the upcoming Fall semester\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 12:03:01'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'Hi Jesse, a bit belated: Very impressive! I particularly like that it is
    not about how to draw type alone but about type design in context as the variety
    of contributors suggests. This could be a great experience for participants.'
  created: '2010-08-10 13:24:48'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "The 4 Type@Cooper guest lectures are open to the public: \r\nTurning Lead
    into Gold: 19th-Century American Type Foundries & Their Specimen Books by Stephen
    O. Saxe; \r\nType Design & Production, The Revolutionary Years by Mike Daines;\r\nThe
    Guardian Egyptian by Christian Schwartz, \r\nRound Pegs in Square Holes: Developing
    Type for Screen-based Media by Roger Black are open to the public. \r\n\r\nProgram
    participants will have priority in reserving places in elective weekend workshops
    with Ken Barber and Mark Jamra \r\nbut any remaining places in these workshops
    are available to the public. \r\n\r\nYou must register by phone for these events.
    212-353-4195\r\nAdmission for the lectures is $20, the workshops are $300, TDC
    20% discount applies. "
  created: '2010-08-26 15:28:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hi Cara! Best wishes for a great class!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-08-26 15:48:18'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: 'Thanks Chris! '
  created: '2010-08-26 16:10:34'
- author:
    name: typedef
  body: "Sounds like a great course.\r\n\r\nIs there a similar course in the Boston
    area?\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-26 18:54:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Cara, will the schedule of these events open to the public be posted on the
    Cooper Union website, or a facebook page? '
  created: '2010-08-26 19:31:49'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> will the schedule of these events open to the public be posted on the Cooper
    Union website, or a facebook page?\r\n\r\nHi William. According to http://coopertype.org/curriculum/,\r\n\r\nTurning
    Lead into Gold: 19th-Century American Type Foundries & Their Specimen Books by
    Stephen O. Saxe;\r\nMonday, October 18\r\n6:30 pm \r\n\r\nType Design & Production,
    The Revolutionary Years by Mike Daines;\r\nMonday, November 1\r\n6:30 pm\r\n\r\nThe
    Guardian Egyptian by Christian Schwartz,\r\nMonday, November 15\r\n6:30 pm \r\n\r\nRound
    Pegs in Square Holes: Developing Type for Screen-based Media by Roger Black \r\nMonday,
    November 29\r\n6:30 pm"
  created: '2010-08-27 00:50:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: William, everything under "Electives" and "Guest Lectures" on the <a href=http://coopertype.org/curriculum/>Curriculum
    page</a> is what will be open to the public, space-permitting.
  created: '2010-08-27 00:51:01'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Concerning foreign students and visas, here is what I can say. \r\n\r\nNo
    one needs to have a special visa to apply to or attend Type@Cooper, immigration
    status is not a factor at all. \r\n\r\nCooper Union cannot help to get a student
    visa to study (which is good news and a little bit bad news) because the program
    doesn't require enough contact hours to qualify. This is only bad if you come
    from a country who's citizens must jump through hoops to get a tourist visa to
    the US. It's good because thanks to Homeland Security, schools now have to charge
    enormous fees to foreign students to offset the expense of doing the ten years
    of follow-up paperwork per student. \r\n\r\nI am told that there are quite a few
    Brazilians who have come repeatedly to do the Architecture Certificate program
    in Green Building courses here at Cooper. They have all come on tourist visas.
    \r\n\r\nThe only difficulty is that a tourist visa limits you to a certain number
    of months visit. Still, the fees that get charged to foreign students are more
    than just about any round trip airfare in the world.  \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-27 02:59:44'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Bill, \r\nCristobal correctly lists the fall lectures. These will be held
    in an auditorium that can accommodate a lot of people. \r\n\r\nThe elective workshops
    will have limited enrollment, and priority will be given to those in the program
    as an optional course in addition to the core, but included in the price of the
    program. We expect there will be a few open places in these workshops for people
    outside the program. \r\n\r\nIn the fall 2 weekend workshops are planned; Drawn
    Letters with Ken Barber, and Experiment and Expression in letterform design with
    Mark Jamra.\r\n  \r\nRichard Lipton and John Downer have agreed to teach lettering/design
    workshops in the spring. We are still working out the details of a few more electives
    for spring on the technical end of font production. I imagine we can open those
    up to more people. \r\n\r\nFYI, Cooper Union Continuing Education's website is
    set up in such a way that makes it impossible to list these options and allow
    people to enroll directly through the site. If you are interested in signing up
    to attend anything at Type@Cooper (other than applying for the whole program)
    you need to call them during office hours 10 am\u20146pm. The number's on the
    website.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-08-27 03:21:46'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Reminder: The deadline for this fall's Type@Cooper is midnight tomorrow,
    \r\nAugust 31st.\r\n\r\nWe will run the program again next year with a more generous
    lead time. \r\nI know this was short notice for many, especially those of you
    who expressed\r\ninterest from afar. \r\n\r\nIf I've confused you about the international
    student explanation that I posted a few days ago let me clarify that there is
    no extra fee for international students and Cooper doesn't require any particular
    immigration status or visa. \r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-31 00:33:17'
- author:
    name: Sara Soskolne
    picture: 109506
  body: "Hi folks: a bit late to this thread, I also want to wish the Type@Cooper
    program the best of luck and heartily agree that it\u2019s about time this kind
    of comprehensive type education is offered on this side of the Atlantic!\r\n\r\nFor
    those looking for something a little lighter on the time commitment scale, due
    to the demand for my summer SVA CE workshop Turning Letters Into Type, I\u2019m
    also scheduled to teach a semester-long version of it on Monday nights in both
    the Fall and Spring semesters (with more intensives planned for next summer as
    well, if as James M. points out there are enough students to go around). I believe
    the difference between my class and James\u2019 is that mine is taught in a computer
    lab with TypeTool available to each student \u2014 for now, until SVA upgrades
    to FontLab for a more advanced version of the class \u2014 so it\u2019s digitally
    hands-on as well as lecture/critique in format. \r\n\r\nThe fall class starts
    Sept. 20, and registration is available [[http://www.schoolofvisualarts.edu/ceCourseFinder/app?sDay=0&sTime=0&sLoc=&sDept=&sCourse=GDC-4458-A%09&sInstructor=&sKeyword=|here]].
    \r\n\r\nNYC-area typophiles are suddenly spoiled for choice in 2010 \u2014 let's
    all hope they take advantage of it!"
  created: '2010-08-31 16:29:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sara,\r\n\r\nYou get the prize for \"Best Job Title\" Glyph Masseuse\r\n\r\nChris
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-08-31 16:54:45'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "So this is the thing that doesn't make sense to me.\r\n\r\nSara's course
    is being offered in a computer lab with access to TypeTool for $900 for the 12
    week semester.\r\n\r\nMy course is being offered in a classroom for $470 for a
    12 week semester.\r\n\r\nGiven that most design students probably have access
    to a laptop, a student could by TypeTool for $99 and put it on their laptop and
    bring it to class, and save a whole bunch of money.\r\n\r\nSVA is charging an
    additional $430 for computer access to TypeTool. Really?\r\n\r\nSmoke'em if you
    got'em."
  created: '2010-09-01 20:02:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>I believe the difference between my class and James\u2019 is that mine
    is taught in a computer lab with TypeTool available to each student</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    is that difference, the other difference is your course costs almost than twice
    as much as my course.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-01 20:02:47'
- author:
    name: Sara Soskolne
    picture: 109506
  body: "Chris: it has been so long since I entered that I had completely forgotten
    about it!\r\n\r\nJames: agreed, I asked SVA about this as soon as I saw the disparity
    in fees assuming it was an error, but apparently that's how they price these things.
    I wasn't even aware there was another type design class being offered simultaneously
    with mine until I saw this thread, so I guess they're not too concerned about
    either the potential redundancy or the price difference. Institutions do work
    in mysterious ways, it seems..."
  created: '2010-09-02 20:05:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I think this is an excellent example of how much more cost-effective it is
    for students to have their own computers than for schools to set up labs.
  created: '2010-09-02 22:32:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"this is an excellent example of how much more cost-effective it is for
    students to have their own computers than for schools to set up labs.\"\r\n\r\nOr
    an example of how desperate schools are to get more income."
  created: '2010-09-03 01:28:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Or an example of how desperate schools are to get more income.</cite>\r\n\r\nComputer
    labs are money pits for schools. The costs of space, hardware, software, printers,
    toner, networking, cooling, staff, etc. get really ridiculous in schools, especially
    when vandalism and theft get factored in. They\u2019d probably do much better
    by just demanding that all students provide their own. "
  created: '2010-09-03 01:51:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Taking 2 computer lab included courses at CU would pay for the cost of a laptop.
  created: '2010-09-03 02:10:38'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "All Continuing Ed programs are essentially about making money. SVA books
    two type design classes hope one or both will fill. If they don't fill, no sweat,
    the class is cancelled and they try again next semester.\r\n\r\nCooper creates
    a Certificate Program to bolster its bottom line. Make sense for a university
    that doesn't charge tuition for its undergraduate program to generate some revenue
    somewhere. At least that is how it was explained to me when I sat in on meetings
    when Cooper approached the TDC to get involved."
  created: '2010-09-03 02:23:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>All Continuing Ed programs are essentially about making money.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    get that\u2014I\u2019m just pointing out that charging more for the computer lab
    doesn\u2019t mean that the class is any more profitable!"
  created: '2010-09-03 02:48:05'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> They\u2019d probably do much better by just demanding that all students
    provide their own.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, that can work in the United States, where
    the students (or the parents) can afford it. But not every school in the world
    can demand to their students to buy a laptop. And we must not forget that it is
    not only about buying the computer, but about licensing the required software.
    But, on the other hand, I see your point and I agree: it is not efficient for
    the university to provide computers for the students that can have (and actually
    have) their own laptops."
  created: '2010-09-03 08:46:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: In many colleges in the USA, laptops are required just like text books--and
    this is for all majors. There is a sort of quiet, behind-the-scenes thing that
    happens where students who show a great financial need, are given loaners by either
    the school or charitable minded corporate sponsors. I remember, what seemed to
    me to be an incredible financial burden in 1962, when I had to come up with the
    money to buy a Yashica-D for a freshman photography class at CMU. At least I was
    not in engineering where they not only had to buy a slide rule but books of log
    tables.
  created: '2010-09-03 14:34:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"Admittedly, that can work in the United States, where the students (or
    the parents) can afford it. But not every school in the world can demand to their
    students to buy a laptop. And we must not forget that it is not only about buying
    the computer, but about licensing the required software.\"\r\n\r\nThing is, the
    price difference is $430. Cost for a basic but functional Windows laptop with
    4 GB of RAM: $400. TypeTool is $100. Total, $500. So, it's hard to justify the
    course-in-the-lab pricing from a student perspective, really. (Not that I'm denying
    all the expenses the school has in running the lab, which add up.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-09-04 20:44:10'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: ">Computer labs are money pits for schools. The costs of space, hardware,
    software, printers, toner, networking, cooling, staff...\r\n\r\nThis is quite
    accurate. There is a trade off of luxury and efficiency vs. cost effectiveness.
    \ \r\n\r\nRunning a type design class in a computer lab allows students to scan
    and print and to use other applications to test a font in a layout), reliable
    access the Internet, and file sharing. Access to networked printers allows students
    to inspect their work on high quality print outs quickly and throughout class
    time and to get ready for critiques on the fly. Of course, there is a cost for
    this luxury. \r\n\r\nObviously, many serious design students already own a laptop
    and if money is an issue would better spend those funds on a laptop and legal
    licensing of software so they can obsess over BCPs at home.\r\n\r\nFor Type@Cooper,
    we're doing something in-between...we'll have dedicated equipment and AV support
    without the full lab environment. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-09-07 00:44:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Good thinking, Cara. There was no better learning environment than when your
    whole class was working at night on an assignment and you could interact with
    each other. Today, with all the isolation, there is not enough peer interaction.
  created: '2010-09-07 04:23:26'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Ken Barber's \"The Drawn Letter\" elective workshop is going to be repeated
    on November 6th and 7th and places are available for anyone outside the program
    to sign up. Ken has graciously agreed to come back to do a repeat performance
    in November since so many people expressed interest in the October dates. This
    workshop will be some mix of hand drawing and digitizing (optional). \r\n\r\n\"This
    workshop will investigate recent historical approaches to lettering, in addition
    to exploring various production techniques. Participants will refer to familiar
    typographic models and helpful specimens as they create their own hand-drawn wordmarks\"\r\n\r\nFor
    a full course description look at coopertype.org. To register you can go to http://cooperunion.augusoft.net/index.cfm?method=ClassListing.ClassListingDisplay&int_category_id=4&int_sub_category_id=33
    or call the Continuing Education office if you're a TDC member to get your 20%
    discount: (212) 353-4195\r\n\r\nThe lecture series begins on October 18th at 6:30
    pm in the Rose Auditorium in the New Academic Building at 41 Cooper Square. \r\nStephen
    Saxe will talk about design and production of 19th Century American Type. You
    can register online or by phone. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-11 16:29:59'
- author:
    name: cdiedwardo
  body: "Monday, November 1st Mike Daines will give a lecture called \"Type Design
    and Production, the Revolutionary Years\" at 6:30 pm in the Rose Auditorium at
    Cooper Union, 41 Cooper Square. For full description: http://coopertype.org/curriculum/\r\n\r\nMike
    Daines is founder of Baseline magazine, Applied Graphics Limited, he co-founded
    Applied Arabic, an Arabic type design licensing company, and The Foundry, an early
    digital typefoundry. \r\n\r\nRegister to attend at 212-353-4195. This event is
    open to the general public. "
  created: '2010-10-26 09:21:45'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: '@Cara, thanks for keeping this thread updated. I really wish I lived closer.
    So many of these lectures sound super interesting! '
  created: '2010-11-30 11:44:09'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: I just published a blog post about my awesome summer in the Type@Cooper Condensed
    certificate program at the Cooper Union in New York City [[http://www.kombinat-typefounders.com/store/news/article/cooperType_condensed_2012]]
  created: '2012-08-06 04:26:41'
- author:
    name: Kevin Paolozzi
    picture: 124869
  body: "Hannes \u2013 it was a pleasure studying along side you for the duration
    of the course. It was both captivating and a privilege to have access into your
    wisdom. Definitely a fine group of people with diverse backgrounds for this past
    summer's condensed program. "
  created: '2012-08-06 16:43:00'
date: '2010-07-28 07:34:57'
title: New typeface design program at Cooper Union

---
