---
author:
  name: Ken Krugh
body: "Hi Guys,\r\n\r\nI'm combining a client's series of fonts into Unicode/Opentype
  and I'm wondering about the best way to get started. The fonts were originally created
  in Fontographer 3.5 and were used primarily as Type1 with some occasional use in
  TrueType.\r\n\r\nI'd planned on opening the one of the fonts and moving the glyphs
  from the other fonts into that one font. The Ascent and Descent values for the various
  fonts do differ a bit, not sure whether that matters.\r\n\r\nOpening the Type1 in
  FontLab 5 the Ascent and Descent values are different from what was in Fontographer.
  Opening the TrueType they seem to match. Am I better off using the TrueType as a
  starting point?\r\n\r\nSome of the glyphs have stacked accents. Is that something
  I need to be concerned about beyond setting an acceptable Ascent value?\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know of a good source for further information regarding the PUA? Are there
  any even loose \"standards\" in existence?\r\n\r\nMany thanks for any insight that
  can be offered.\r\n\r\nKen"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I'd planned on opening the one of the fonts and moving the glyphs from
    the other fonts into that one font</em>\r\n\r\nYou can save yourself a lot of
    time--and get some sleep: 4:45 am?--by opening both fonts and using the TOOLS
    &gt; MERGE FONTS function.\r\n\r\nI doubt that the differing metrics will cause
    too many problems because the baseline will remain the same. If the final product
    is going to be a CFF-flavored font, you're probably better off sticking with the
    Type 1 originals. And the accents shouldn't figure in setting your Ascent values,
    but will affect the bbox values, which will be calculated automatically."
  created: '2010-07-29 22:09:49'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "7:45 my time, not so bad. :o)\r\n\r\nThat was my feeling as well, but I was
    getting a bit nervous as someone else (NOT in this forum) mentioned having trouble
    doing just this. They were, however, talking about Fontographer some 12 years
    ago.\r\n\r\nYes, it will be a CFF.\r\n\r\nYet another issue just came up today.
    In the separate Type 1 fonts things were done like making the punctuation in the
    Greek font just a smidge heavier to better hold with the Greek. Is there anyway
    with Open Type to know, for instance, that Greek is being used and to go get an
    alternate character? I'm thinking probably not.\r\n\r\nThanks for your time oldnick.\r\n\r\nKen\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-29 22:39:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Best I remember, when you merge fonts, if there is a name conflict, you get
    A.1 (or something) for the \"A\" merged in. Now, suppose in your Greek font that
    you have Alpha in the \"A\" position -- with the name \"A\" (PostScript Type 1
    goes by names). If you used any of the layout programs with hard encoding (Quark,
    PageMaker, etc.), it had to be that way -- \"Alpha\" wasn't in the encoding vector.\r\n\r\nIn
    the new, program-merged font, it will be named \"A.1\", and no Unicode number
    will be assigned. Etc. I also had trouble with the kerning. Best I remember, when
    a character was in the leading position, all the kerns made it, but when it was
    in the trailing position, no. No idea why.\r\n\r\nGive it a try. I think your
    original idea was best, but who knows? Think I was working with 4.2 at the time,
    FLS5 may do better with the kerning. But so far, no program can guess what a mis-named
    glyph *should* be. I believe it was one of your posts where I estimated 2-3 days
    for roman + italic, assuming the kerning and OT features needs aren't too great.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is
    there anyway with Open Type to know, for instance, that Greek is being used and
    to go get an alternate character? I'm thinking probably not.</cite>\r\n\r\nSure.
    It doesn't even depend on language, just glyph names are needed. For example,
    in a calt feature, you can write something like \r\n\r\nsub sigma' space by sigma.final;\r\nsub
    sigma' comma by sigma.final;\r\nsub sigma' period by sigma.final;\r\n\r\netc.
    or, make up a class that has as it's members all the things where a preceding
    sigma would be the final sigma., and write\r\n\r\nsub sigma' @clasname by sigma.final;\r\n\r\nActually,
    I'd not recommend this for sigma, it is just an example. But does show the importance
    of having things properly named, either in accordance with the Adobe standard,
    or (PITA) by using the Unicode number, preceded by \"uni\" for the glyph name.\r\n\r\n<cite>Does
    anyone know of a good source for further information regarding the PUA? Are there
    any even loose \"standards\" in existence?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe thing about loose
    standards is they keep changing. Adobe use to put all kinds of things in the PUA.
    Believed they have stopped. Characters in the Private Use Area HAVE MO MEANING!
    If you aren't going to be using a layout program/text editor that can only access
    characters with a Unicode number, don't give one. If, for some reason, characters
    have to have a Unicode number, you can use PUA. Use to be they'd be stripped out
    of a subsequent PDF file, though.\r\n\r\nYou need a full-blown expert to do this
    work, and I'm limited to what works with InDesign, where printed books are the
    final product. You can either spend the time to learn, and it won't be quick,
    or hire it out.\r\n\r\nSorry for the water on the dreams."
  created: '2010-07-30 01:18:08'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Thanks Charles! That's good news regarding the calt feature. I was wondering
    about that one but hadn't yet had the time to investigate. I can't thank you enough
    for taking the time to answer these questions and saving me a WHOLE bunch of time.
    Unfortunately the client is moving forward too fast without knowing or even considering
    the breath and scope of what has to happen here. Per the usual, I guess.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and I definitely WILL be copying and pasting to the correct Unicode positions.
    There aren't THAT many glyphs and I'd rather know everyone is in their happy place.
    That's turning out to be the least of my worries.\r\n\r\nThe main use of the font
    will be with Word to prepare manuscripts and InDesign to do the final layout.
    One of the things they're looking to do with this, however, is get their content
    to the web. I suppose I now also have to consider what OpenType features various
    web authoring/display software is capable of using. For instance if I do a calt
    function will it even work on a web page?!?! Yet another thing to investigate.\r\n\r\nIn
    regard to PUA: <cite>If you aren't going to be using a layout program/text editor
    that can only access characters with a Unicode number, don't give one.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean don't assign a Unicode value and just give the glyph a name? Seems like
    assigning a Unicode value couldn't hurt and may help later on with conversions
    and such. Are there any negatives to assigning the a Unicode value?\r\n\r\n<cite>Use
    to be they'd be stripped out of a subsequent PDF file, though.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean characters in the PUA?!?! That's a bit horrifying! Is that still something
    to worry about?!?!\r\n\r\nOy. You're right, SOME TIME. Now if I only had it. I'd
    very much consider hiring you on a consulting basis if you're at all interested.
    I'd have to check things on my end but let me know if you think that\u2019s a
    possibility.\r\n\r\nAnd thank you, thank you, thank you again.\r\nKen\r\nkenkrugh@tekntype.com"
  created: '2010-07-30 14:00:38'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Ken, about your special characters in the PUA: the glyphs in the PUA only
    have a semantic meaning in the <strong>exact font</strong> they are defined in
    -- that puts the \"P\" for \"Private\" in \"PUA\".\r\n\r\nWith regard to special
    characters, yo have two options:\r\n\r\n(a) You assign no Unicode to these characters,
    but (as Charles said) you can only use them in programs that allow inserting any
    glyph from any font (as with InDesign's Glyph panel). You probably could use OTF
    features to call them up (i.e., if you have an alternate double arrow glyph, replace
    \"=>\" with that) but then you would be at the mercy of OTF support in the programs
    you work with.\r\n\r\n(b) You assign PUA codes to your special characters. That
    means you can use them in any program (provided it can handle Unicode text; but
    you've got to start <em>somewhere</em>), and you don't need to rely on custom
    features.\r\n\r\nBut: in both cases <em>you cannot use any text in this font</em>
    for web content. Characters without a Unicode cannot be represented in HTML, and
    <em>neither</em> can PUA characters -- a typical web viewer, John W. Browser,
    who doesn't have your font but sees Times and Arial instead, will either see the
    PUA characters of Times/Arial in that position (which can be <em>anything</em>
    else), or the default \"I dunno what this is supposed to be\" Missing Glyph Squares.\r\n\r\n\r\nThat
    said: What sort of special characters were you thinking of?\r\nSome limitations
    can be worked around. Suppose you want to include several different kinds of bullets
    (only graphic variations, not semantic ones). You could put the variations as
    'alternates' under the regular Bullet character, and use the full range with advanced
    software, or copy them into HTML text, and you'd get the standard bullet."
  created: '2010-07-30 15:23:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Everything I wrote assumes you have kerning data in each of the fonts you're
    trying to preserve. If you have no kerning data, you have a much easier chore.
    You also probably have cruddy fonts, but that's a different story.\r\n\r\nPasting
    a glyph into the correct cell may or may not solve all your problems. As I remember,
    if you place the glyph in the proper cell, it will have the right Unicode number.
    It may not have the right name, and in FL, you write features based on glyph names.
    You can use FL to generate the right name from the Unicode number. Exactly how
    this affects kerning data depends. If you type in the name by hand (control+G+R),
    FL will update the character name everywhere IN THAT FILE, depending on which
    boxes you've checked off. But not in the other files, of course. That means the
    other file's AFM will no longer have the *KPX ? ? value* you need for you new
    file.\r\n\r\nFor that reason, when I work by hand, I make sure the old type 1
    font files (well, the .vfb and .afm files) have the names as they will be in the
    new file. Then cut & paste, both characters via FL, and metrical data in a text
    editor.\r\n\r\nIt is almost impossible to list a procedure in detail that will
    meet your needs and involve no screwups. So, (1) try small files to completion
    until you get a technique that covers all your needs. (2) save often, and with
    different file names, so you can backtrack when something goes wrong. It will,
    and you don't want to start completely over.\r\n\r\nSorry about the \"character
    stripping in the PDF file\" -- not well put. They will appear in the PDF, but
    if you subsequently extract text from the PDF, they may be missing.\r\n\r\nYou
    need to look at what constitutes canonically correct Unicode. If, for example,
    you want a \"c\" with a dot under and an acute over, canonically correct Unicode
    is the character \"c\" followed by U+0323 followed by U+0301 (the latter are combining
    diacriticals). Now *rendering* this is the job of the layout program / text editor.
    But the *meaning* is correct in Unicode and for any Unicode-compliant program.
    I believe, but do not know, that MS Word will render this with no extra work on
    your part. InDesign will not, without a further OT feature(s), either *mark* and
    *mkmk*, or *ccmp*. With *mark* and *mkmk*, no extra glyph is needed. Each method
    has its share of compromises. With *ccmp* you do make up a glyph, and it's name
    must be uni006303230301, and it is subbed in by a ccmp line,\r\n\r\nsub c uni0323
    uni0301 by uni006303230301\r\n\r\nor, if you've *named* the combing acute \"acutecomb\"
    and the dot below as \"dotbelowcomb\", use those instead e.g.\r\n\r\nsub c dotbelowcomb
    acutecomb by uni006303230301\r\n\r\nThe replacement glyph is named uni006303230301,
    (Adobe requirement for PDF) but has no Unicode number.\r\n\r\nOr, you put it in
    the PUA and call if *Fred*. But subsequent use of the files will ignore Fred,
    he has no meaning.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nNo, you can't hire me, and a good thing.
    There are people who hang out on Typophile who are real experts, and I'm not one,
    save for making font files that will set with InDesign, for printing books, and
    where the text can be extracted for latter use. AND always assuming that the files
    coming in are in a certain form. For example, we have never had a manuscript (file)
    where the author used language tags, so I don't bother with them. Etc.\r\n\r\nAll
    these tips can do is help with the testing you'll have to do. Again, \"Save As\"
    often, and make a list of what's in each version, because I guarantee you'll be
    backtracking some at first."
  created: '2010-07-30 15:39:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "BTW, forgot to add: If your Type 1 fonts (roman and italic etc.) have the
    same encoding, if your programming skills are up to it, you can make a PFA from
    the PFB, and write a list (program) to rename all the glyphs in both the PFA(s)
    and the AFM(s). Then open the PFA's in FL.\r\n\r\nThere were some TeX routines
    that would do just this, dunno if they're still available."
  created: '2010-07-30 15:56:25'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Me again,\r\n\r\nI've started to move the characters from our \"special\"
    font into the correct Unicode positions. For many of the characters FontLab does
    a great job of creating the glyphs in one way or another, but for some it can
    not associate a name with a Unicode. Two instances are a cap Latin Y and lowercase
    y with macrons.\r\n\r\nThese characters appear in the Unicode code charts as part
    of the Latin Extednded-B code set.\r\n\r\nSearch [[http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/U0180.pdf]]
    for \"y with macron\".\r\n\r\nThat code set document shows the Unicode number
    for those characters but also indicates with a conguence symbol that they are
    made up of the Y and the macron giving the Unicode for both of those.\r\n\r\nI
    don't THINK this is something I need be concerned with as I'm simply putting my
    glyph (NOT a composit) in the Y macron Unicode position. However, during this
    process every time I turn around there is something else I don't yet know/understand
    so I'm posing the question here. OK to simpy put my Y with a macron glyph in the
    Unicode position?\r\n\r\nThanks again, and again, and again.\r\nKen\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 02:31:11'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: It's fine to put them in their proper Unicode position. The name issue is
    because the Adobe glyph list doesn't contain standard names for Y and y with macron.
    You should give them names in the form uni0232 and uni0233.
  created: '2010-08-04 02:45:14'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Isn't this fun? -- Actually, I enjoy it when not under time pressure. FL
    will help you with names. The *Rename glyph* pallet has two green things off to
    the right of the place you enter the name and Unicode number. If you have one
    filled out, try clicking the greenie of the other. If FL is to assign the name,
    a further menu setting is needed. Use the Adobe name WITHOUT Afl(whatever) --
    nothing wrong with the \"Afl (or something similar), but it will drive you nuts
    writing features, which are name-based in FL.\r\n\r\nThis trick is esp useful
    if you know the name but not the Unicode number. No pawing through the book trying
    to fnd the number. Try this. Cut and paste an alpha somewhere in the PUA region.
    Bring up \"rename glyph\" (control G R on a PC). Type in \"alpha\" in the name
    spot. Click on the green button next to *Unicode*, and voila, FL will assign the
    right Unicode number. Further, it checks to insure you haven't already used either
    that name or number. And it will \"move\" the character to the correct position
    (that's a visual move only, glyph order (index) is set differently). Now, if you've
    already got an alpha in your new font, this won't work, because FL is checking.
    If you've already done \"alpha\", delete it & try this trick. As always, save
    the file before, don't save after, unless all the metrical data will come later.\r\n\r\nI
    usually work this way, (1) when doing things by hand and (2) I know the name.
    All this is \"a faster way to use the program\" not \"must do it this way.\""
  created: '2010-08-04 12:06:20'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Thank you archaica. Happily that's what I settled on, which makes me think
    I'm getting somewhere with all this!\r\n\r\nCharles, your \"Isn't this fun?\"
    brought a smile, and I agree, if it weren't for the rediculous time crunch this
    would be an interesting task.\r\n\r\nThanks again,\r\nKen"
  created: '2010-08-04 21:00:46'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Charles, for a non-expert your advice is pretty solid :)
  created: '2010-08-04 21:18:02'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "I'm guessing Charles is just modest.\r\n\r\nWell, I'm back with more questions,
    nothing is every easy I guess :o) I thought the PUA was just a place to put anything
    and the Unicode.org lists the Private Use Area and supplementary areas A and B.
    Makes sense, just more places to put stuff.\r\n\r\nHowever! In FontLab 5, when
    viewing in Unicode mode, there are 8 subcategories: \"Windows Symbol Font Area,\"
    \"Apple Thai Addition\" and so on.\r\n\r\nWhat the heck are those?!?! I was going
    to simply start at the beginning of the PUA and work my way through but should
    I avoid those positions?\r\n\r\nOy!\r\n\r\nThanks again,\r\nKen\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-05 01:27:59'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Hmm, sorry, just had another thought.\r\n\r\nAny reason not to skip some
    positions within the PUA so I can always be assured to have room for similar characters
    that might get added later? \r\n\r\nFor instance, I could start the PUA with various
    Greek alphas, skip a bunch of positions for possible later use and put my various
    Greek epsilons together, skip more and do the omicrons and so on...\r\n\r\nI'm
    thinking that this would make the similar characters group together in things
    like InDesign's glyph menu.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know of any potential problems
    with that?\r\n\r\nThank you again,\r\nKen\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-05 01:39:37'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "That *is* a good idea, and I don't think it should cause any problem at all.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the ID Glyph panel order: you can toggle between Unicode and Glyph id sorting.
    The former is useful if you know (roundabouts) what you are looking for, but the
    second one can also be very useful -- <em>if</em> the font designer anticipated
    its use, that is. I used Glyph order (I think FL calls it Character Index) to
    group 'similar' phonetic characters together, whereas in Unicode they are all
    over the font.\r\n\r\nYou are already free to choose any order in your PUA, but
    you could use this to offer an <em>additional</em> character sort."
  created: '2010-08-05 09:43:03'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Thanks Theunis, I hoped as much.\r\n\r\nAny idea what those sub categories
    are that FL lists under the private use area?\r\n\r\nAll Best."
  created: '2010-08-05 19:13:19'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Various companies and organizations have internal standards for placement
    of glyphs in the PUA. Some of them are listed in the FontLab interface; others
    aren't. Nothing's going to break if your font overlaps with those assignments.
    The main potential issues are (1) if somebody changes the text to some other font,
    they might get a different character, which is an unavoidable issue anyway with
    PUA slots, and (2) if you ever need your font to be compatible with, say, the
    Medieval Unicode Font Initiative internal standard, then you may find you have
    conflicts.
  created: '2010-08-05 19:57:31'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Yeah, I considered trying to see if Adobe and/or Microsoft have internal
    PUA standards but I'm not sure it's worth it.\r\n\r\nThank you archaica."
  created: '2010-08-05 21:41:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Before I say something stupid, why do you want to put characters in the PUA?
    And maybe this breaks done to \"what applications programs do you need the variant
    characters available in?\"\r\n\r\nFor example, I put in most of the Grec du Roi
    ligatures in a font; they can be accessed by any OT program that has a glyph pallet,
    or one supporting stylistic sets (Does Word support stylistic sets? Are 20 sets
    enough for you?). I believe that as of today, characters without a Unicode number
    not accessible in MS Word, but I bet that changes. Won't display on the web, but
    they wouldn't anyway.\r\n\r\nWhat I know about the Private Use Area can be written
    in a match book -- as long as what you write is \"Don't use it if at all possible\"
    The only reason is that you can't access the characters in Word, or, Unicode has
    abandoned you, and won't give a codepoint, a situation the medievalists face.
    How important is that for your fonts, anyway? If they are just stylistic variants,
    they can be handled better in an OT-compliant program like InDesign in other ways.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    If they do wind up in the PUA, if you name them something like alpha.01, alpha.02
    etc, text extracted from a subsequentPDF will show them as alpha's. PDF is name
    based, and everything after the period drops out. XML-compliant coding is different,
    as it presupposes Unicode. I believe they will just be gone."
  created: '2010-08-05 21:57:58'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Here's another! I finally have the font to a point where I can use it a bit
    and was using the Unicode Greek. All was great until I notice that the Greek seems
    quite tight.\r\n\r\nWell . . . in the \"old\" Type1 Greek font the width of the
    space is just nearly DOUBLE that of the \"regular\" Latin font with which it was
    combined. I started with the Latin font and was moving in the glyphs from the
    Greek font so the width of the space from the Latin font is now being used within
    the Greek.\r\n\r\nMy next step is to go and investigate this but I thought I'd
    take the Lazy route as well and ask here whether it is possible to set up a space
    within the font that would be used when the Greek characters are being set?\r\n\r\nOy.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nKen"
  created: '2010-08-16 22:13:28'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Woo-hoo!!! Wrote my first calt feature!\r\n\r\nOf course, Word doesn't use
    it and neither does the web! Oh well, cool anyway.\r\n\r\nWe're playing with this
    idea but starting with taking a median value of the two spaces.\r\n\r\nBig meeting
    tomorrow should be interesting to see what the client things of all we've discovered.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again to all that helped me out with this. Maybe some day soon I'll have enough
    knowledge to give back a bit.\r\n\r\nAll Best,\r\nKen"
  created: '2010-08-17 00:59:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I wasn't going to answer until I get into work tomorrow (late, have a meeting),
    but did wonder if you got calt to work with a GPOS routine? I'd worry that if
    you just substituted a new space character (GSUB), you'd lose justification with
    InDesign.\r\n\r\nTry it and see. If so, I'd try making a class of the Greek characters,
    and use a space as the context. Then add to the right sidebearing of the Greek
    letters, as is done with the spacing of capitals (see the cpsp code). But I'm
    not sure this will work.\r\n\r\nCouple of other points: You first goal was to
    have everything Unicode. You can have that and still have two fonts. Each, of
    course, would have a separate spaceband character. Not as useful, but would work.
    And would work with Word and on the web.\r\n\r\nSecondly, a number of fonts mix
    the Latin and Greek alphabets in a single font. What is so odd about your Greek
    that it needs a wider space?"
  created: '2010-08-17 02:28:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "OK, I couldn't get the calt to work as outlined above. Less elegantly, you
    can do it with a class kern,\r\n\r\n   pos @_greek space 100;\r\n\r\nWhich as
    written adds a 100 unit kern between any character that is a member of \"greek\"
    and a space.\r\n\r\nyou'd have to work something out for punctuation, such as
    a calt or stylistic set that swapped commas, periods, whatever, to get a different
    set to include in \"greek.\"\r\n\r\nNumerous ways to do things with OpenType.
    One of the pros might even be able to get the calt-sideberaring notion to work."
  created: '2010-08-17 16:54:28'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "I could think of several ways to do it, depending on which OT features your
    applications support.\r\n\r\nIf your app can use the \xBBLocalized Forms\xAB (locl)
    feature:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature locl {\r\n  script grek;\r\n  \tlanguage dflt;\r\n
    \ \t\tsub space by space.grek;\r\n} locl;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nOr as part of the
    kern feature, with no extra glyph:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nfeature kern {\r\n  script
    grek;\r\n  \tlanguage dflt;\r\n  \t\tpos space <50 0 100 0>;\r\n} kern;\r\n</code>"
  created: '2010-08-17 17:49:52'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Ah. I thought one of the experts would have other ideas. \r\n\r\nI'll say
    that none of the manuscripts we get in has ever had language tags, the downside
    to these approaches. Which doesn't mean authors don't use numerous languages,
    just that neither they or the editors tag them. \r\n\r\nI'm assuming that the
    font isn't smart enough to apply a language tag simply by filling the in Unicode
    ranges supported, but I don't know. I figured that too many languages share a
    common alphabet. As typesetters, we're sure not going to go into the MS and insert
    language tags.\r\n\r\nJust points up how interrelated fonts, editorial, and composition
    can/have become. "
  created: '2010-08-17 18:03:20'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "Thanks guys!\r\n\r\nI think the space value in the Greek was done as it is
    just to make the Greek set well by default, hard to say though, I wasn't on board
    at the time.\r\n\r\nGood point about the justification and makes perfect sense.
    I did create a class in to which I would put all the Greek characters. With that
    I did a very simple calt, shown below. I was mainly fiddling to see if anything
    was even possible and only checked a single line of type in InD. I bet justification
    WOULD be an issue.\r\nfeature calt {\r\n  sub @class4 space ' by  space.greek;\r\n}
    calt;\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what you mean by GPOS routine.\r\n\r\nWe are knocking
    around the idea of multiple fonts, thanks for the suggestion. Right now I think
    we're going to simply make some decisions of how things will go, (oh did I ever
    mention we may put Greek accented small caps in the font as well?) put together
    the Unicode font and give it to the guys handling the web and see what they say.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Jens for chiming in, much appreciated! The Kern feature seems to be a possibly.
    Does using the \"grek\" mean I have to define certain glyphs as Greek? Can a glass
    be used?\r\n\r\nWith the few features I've been fiddling with I've been opening
    other fonts to see how they're written. I found the registered features on Microsoft's
    site which lists what they do but I've not found a place showing syntax for the
    features. Is that available anywhere?\r\n\r\nAnd last but not least annoying:
    How the heck does one rename a class in FontLab 5? Creating and filling one is
    easy, but I've been unable to rename it to something that makes sense.\r\n\r\nThanks
    a gain for the time and input.\r\n\r\nAll Best,\r\nKen"
  created: '2010-08-17 22:24:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "As usual when I answer your posts, I'm sitting at the kitchen table, with
    no copy of FontLab in the house. So working from memory . . .\r\n\r\nI never work
    on features within the FontLab application. No editing capabilities. Screen area
    too small. Type too small. Etc. \r\n\r\nFontLab lets you write off the features
    (I believe it is \"Save Features\". Open up the resulting .fea file in your favorite
    text editor (I like something with power, like VEDIT or now, EditPad Pro). Rename
    classes as you want. Treating text as a block, having an all uppercase and all
    lowercase, etc., tools in a text editor is handy. The features file is just a
    text file, treat it as such & play around a bit -- just don't wipe out what you
    need to save by something silly like using the same file name. \r\n\r\nBe sure
    your class definitions are in the feature file (.fea file). Or, if for some reason,
    you want to keep features and classes separate, write off a class file in the
    same way. When you do you S&R, if you have two files, obviously you need to do
    them in both. One reason I prefer everything in one file. Always a compromise.\r\n\r\nTo
    import the file, again open the FL OT panel, and click on (I believe) Open Features,
    read it in, and compile. Then start fixing the inevitable syntax errors you make
    at first, import again, compile, etc. Or maybe you won't make any errors, who
    knows?\r\n\r\nBe careful about the \"generate kerning\" or some such line in the
    OT panel. If your kerning is all within the FL metrics file, that may be OK. After
    generating kerning the first time, I keep it separate, so after that, if I hit
    the wrong button, I lose my kerning. \r\n\r\nWhich brings up a point. There are
    many ways of working. You better have a plan.\r\n\r\nFor example, I keep all the
    fonts we're serious about in their own family subfolder, within a !fontwork folder.
    Within each individual font-family folder, I keep the .fea files. All class-based
    kerning is in these .fea files, with a separate ADD.txt file with a copy of any
    class-based kerning, just in case I hit the wrong button. Been known to do that.
    I use FLs metrics file only for exception kerning, which is always pairs.\r\n\r\nThese
    files within the folder are considered the gospel, rather than the stuff in FontLab.
    If further work is to be done later, it is done in these .fea files. I'm not particularly
    advocating this, but trying to make the point that when you go back in a year
    from now (and you will), you better have a system in place to know what's current,
    what's gospel. For that reason, I NEVER work in the FL OT features panel. If you
    prefer that, the only sane thing to do is treat the .fea files you may make as
    temporary, and delete them once FL will compile the features. Your choice, but
    decide on a system fairly early, changing you mind involves a painful amount of
    work.\r\n\r\n[edit]\r\n\r\nAlong those lines, If you want, you can also do all
    your OpenType work in Adobe's AFDKO 2.5, using FL only for the glyphs. If you
    are a serious programmer, that may be the way to go. There are things available
    in AFDKO not yet available in FL, such as mark and mkmk positioning routines.
    How you work depends on how the fonts are to be used. For example, I work only
    on fonts we use to set type. We don't sell fonts. I need a method where I can
    quickly go into a font, add a character or feature, recompile, and generate the
    font. Fairly often, one of the comps is waiting for me to get that done, in order
    to finish a typesetting job. A very different situation from someone who sells
    fonts as a product.\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-18 12:38:15'
- author:
    name: Ken Krugh
  body: "That's what I ended up doing, saving renaming, then reading back in.\r\n\r\nI'll
    have to give the structure some thought and download AFDKO to check it out.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again,\r\nKen"
  created: '2010-08-20 12:42:50'
date: '2010-07-29 12:45:38'
title: Convertion to Unicode, getting started

---
