---
author:
  name: kevinmullin
body: "Hi.\r\n\r\nMost people in linguistics that I know use Times New Roman or Computer
  Modern for their manuscripts. (Although I do know one person that uses Minion.)
  I find that Computer Modern is too light for photocopying or printing 2up.\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone have any recommendations for something better for the body text?  Basically,
  the manuscripts would be PDFs on a website that may be read on someone's computer
  or printed on standard university laser printers or home inkjets. The font must
  have small caps, italics, and probably bold variants. Although I wouldnt mind, the
  font should probably not be too \"fancy\" so as not to distract from the context
  of manuscript.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, I plan to use Charis SIL with the body text
  font since it appears to be the only font that has a large enough range of phonetic
  characters (IPA or not) and phonological symbols (Greek sigma & mu with combining
  diacritics). I dont expect the body text font to cover an adequate range of phonetic
  symbols in Unicode. These phonetic bits would usually occur in figures but also
  sometimes interspersed in paragraphs. Also, I plan to occasionally typeset mathematical
  equations in floating figures. Currently, I just use the default math font of LaTeX.
  (I write my papers in XeLaTeX, actually.) And, so far, I use Apple Symbols for logic
  symbols and Zapf Dingbats for the pointing hand arrow (which is used in Optimality
  Theory tableaux). These fonts just came with my computer.\r\n\r\nI understand that
  it is nice to use a sans serif for headings, titles, and the like, no? So, if anyone
  has a recommendation for that or if I should just not use a sans serif at all.\r\n\r\nFrom
  reading here, I see that Minion is a good no nonsense type of font that pairs well
  (if not boringly?) with Myriad, but Minion is also somewhat compressed for one column
  on a 8.5x11 size paper. And, Kepler is designed for scientific writing, so maybe
  this is good? I thought that Warnock is very readable but perhaps it is too modern?
  A phonetician has told me that the Hoefler Text that ships with Apple computers
  is too fancy for his taste (the italics and the square brackets, especially), so
  not that. \r\n\r\nAnyway, I just wonder what a professional would do to make a technical
  linguistics article very readable and nice looking but not distracting.\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Have you seen [[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=69&changelang=2|Andron]]
    by [[Andreas St\xF6etzner]]?"
  created: '2010-08-02 10:57:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Is this for a \"manuscript\" (intermediate stage) or final, printed version?
    If for manuscript, Charis is nice, laser prints are nice, it photocopies well,
    and is free. It needs some work to be ready for book-quality distribution. I have
    started on that, but at our shop, development comes with the needs of particular
    books, so I haven't hooked up everything yet. This kind of work isn't too hard,
    anyone could do it . . . esp. a linguist with some needs.\r\n\r\nI've seen Andron
    on the screen, in this forum. It looks very nice. The only reason I don't recommend
    it too is I haven't seen it printed, either laser or 2400 dpi offset. I *think*
    it will be fine, in some ways nicer than Charis. But I believe it is not open
    source, and does cost. \"Open Source\" or \"permission to modify\" is important
    only if you encounter the need for a character/feature not already in the font.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    understand that it is nice to use a sans serif for headings, titles, and the like,
    no? So, if anyone has a recommendation for that or if I should just not use a
    sans serif at all.</cite>\r\n\r\nBunk. Cookbook design. Interior design (not covers/jackets)
    is to address the needs of a text, as it is read, not as it is framed and hung
    on the wall. Book interiors (and journal articles) usually aren't in need of *graphic
    design*, and too few graphic designers actually read. Fine for posters, not for
    books/journal articles. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, a journal will have an existing
    design, so you have to conform to it. Put it this way. Often, there is nothing
    wrong with a sans for titles or subheads. But only that. If you need characters
    not in a sans but in the text font, by all means use that for titles and subheads.\r\n\r\nA
    while ago, the jurors at the Association of American University Presses Book Show
    praised some books for their use of a single type family. Well, jurors differ
    from year to year, but this does help show cookbook thinking is out of place."
  created: '2010-08-02 13:25:45'
- author:
    name: kevinmullin
  body: "Andron seems very nice. I'm surprised at how large the Mega version's coverage
    is. It could be used for most if not all phonetic transcription. The only thing
    that I see I lacking are a few mathematical operators and letter-like symbols
    that are used in theoretical linguistics. (Charis SIL, of course, doesnt have
    these either.)\r\n\r\n\"Manuscript\" refers to mostly an intermediate stage form.
    Any final versions would be typeset by publishers (assuming my work is actually
    publish-worthy). Although Lincom Europa does publish camera-ready manuscripts
    that you must prepare, I dont know if I'll ever send anything to them.\r\n\r\nI
    appreciate the note about using sans. Most linguists dont use different fonts
    for titles and subheads anyway. This is true of most journals I read, too \u2014
    the exceptions being a few experimental phonetic/psychology/cognitive science
    journals, which are also distinguished by their use of a two-column layout.\r\n\r\nMay
    I ask what the problems with Charis are? (if you have the time...)\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the replies."
  created: '2010-08-03 03:26:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Andron is ever involving. You can suggest these glyphs as additions, or if
    you''re in a hurry: have them drawn custom by the designer or purchase a license
    that allows editing. '
  created: '2010-08-03 11:18:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I wrote something last night that was terrible. I've edited it. Hmm. Now
    edited posts keep their order in these forums.\r\n\r\nNot much wrong with Charis
    for preparing manuscripts. I'm fussy about the fonts we use for the composition
    of books, and so have modified it to taste and to match our workflow. Tastes vary,
    our workflow is a bit odd. The latest version of Charis SIL has small caps, and
    lacks only old style numbers.\r\n\r\nI wold love to get in a manuscript where
    the designer specified Andron, to give it a whirl. I can't really justify the
    purchase when there is no use. Does anyone know of a printed book set in Andron
    I could look at? I might then consider buying it for texts other than linguistics.\r\n\r\nThe
    same for Ross Mills evolving font Huronia "
  created: '2010-08-03 12:53:26'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Kevin, which are the characters you need and are not available in Charis
    and Andron? I'm developing a font planned to cover all Latin-based languages and
    also some special areas. Your need may also be addressed if it fits the project.\r\n\r\nRecently,
    a fellow Typophiler pointed some uncommon characters need to Northwest America
    languages and I included these in the font. You can see the project in Forum's
    Critique section ([[http://typophile.com/node/67787|here]])."
  created: '2010-08-04 00:02:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Windows 7 version of Microsoft's Cambria typeface might also be a good
    candidate. Earlier versions do not support the necessary characters for phonetic
    transcription, but these were among the major extensions added for Windows 7.
  created: '2010-08-04 00:13:28'
- author:
    name: kevinmullin
  body: "@Freiberger:\r\n\r\nThe other characters are not strictly phonetic or orthographic
    symbols for writing languages. They are symbols used in a particular linguistic
    theory. This may be outside the scope of your font, especially if you are not
    providing wide coverage for mathematical and logical notation. If you are curious
    anyway, the symbols I use are the following with the unicode number in parentheses:
    \r\n\r\nPrecedes (227A) for \"is less harmonic than\"\r\nSucceeds (227B) for \"is
    more harmonic than\"\r\nMuch Greater-Than (226B) for \"precedes\" in the sense
    of partially ordered sets\r\nScript Capital F (2131) as a metacharacter for faithfulness
    constraints\r\nScript Capital M (2133) as a metacharacter for markedness constraints\r\nScript
    Capital H (210B) as an abbreviation for harmony score\r\n\r\nThere aren't many
    fonts that have these characters.\r\n\r\n\r\n@John Hudson:\r\n\r\nI wasn't aware
    that Cambria was so extensive. \r\nThanks.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 07:42:36'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks Kevin.\r\n\r\nActually, I have doubts about which mathematical and
    logical glyphs must be added. I plan to have a wider support than one finds in
    most text fonts. But also don't want to put the whole Unicode blocks without criteria.
    The same applies to phonetic characters. Anyway, if I include IPA/phonetic support,
    I will also add the glyphs you pointed.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 10:04:53'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: Just out of curiosity, is there any reason I have never seen mentioned as
    a possible choice  <a href="http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFontPackage&code=1086"><strong>ITC
    Stone Serif Std</strong></a> and <a href="http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?store=OLS-US&event=displayFont&code=STEQ11705000"><strong>ITC
    Stone Serif Std Phonetic</strong></a>? There is also a sans version of both (I
    have never tried those fonts).
  created: '2010-08-04 12:09:36'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Precedes (227A) for \"is less harmonic than\"\r\nSucceeds (227B) for
    \"is more harmonic than\"\r\nMuch Greater-Than (226B) for \"precedes\" in the
    sense of partially ordered sets\r\nScript Capital F (2131) as a metacharacter
    for faithfulness constraints\r\nScript Capital M (2133) as a metacharacter for
    markedness constraints\r\nScript Capital H (210B) as an abbreviation for harmony
    score\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\n@Kevin, I score these additions for the next upgrade of
    Andron Mega to come. I always welcome suggestions such as this, Andron has grown
    over the years by the help of such proposals, to a considerable extent.\r\n\r\nHere
    some references of books printed in Andron: \r\n\r\n[[http://www.gutenberg-gesellschaft.de/|Gutenberg-Jahrbuch
    2004, 2005]]\r\n[[http://www.degruyter.de/cont/fb/sk/detail.cfm?id=IS-9783110184860-1|Nordische
    Philologie, Haugen ed., dt. Ausgabe]]\r\n[[http://www.novus.no/BiblNord/|Bibliotheca
    Nordica book series]]\r\n[[http://www.khm.uio.no/forskning/publikasjoner/colmed/index.html|Collegium
    Medievale journal, from N\xBA22/2009]]\r\n[[http://www.arkivverket.no/arkivverket/Nettbutikk/Boeker-og-publikasjoner/De-eldste-oestlandske-kristenrettene|Publications
    of the Norwegian Riksarchivet, Oslo]]\r\n[[http://www.volkskundemuseum.at/index.php?id=15|\xD6sterreichische
    Zeitschrift f\xFCr Volkskunde]]\r\n[[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=146&changelang=1|SIGNA
    magazin]]\r\n\u2013\u203A [[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=212&changelang=2|further
    references]]\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 12:48:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Andron is ever involving. You can suggest these glyphs as additions,
    or if you're in a hurry: have them drawn custom by the designer or purchase a
    license that allows editing.</cite>\r\n\r\nFrode, it looks like all the available
    licenses for Andron prohibit editing the fonts."
  created: '2010-08-04 15:01:11'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 available licenses for Andron prohibit editing the fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    right. I do generally not allow others to lay hands on Andron glyphs. I\u2019m
    a font designer \u2026\r\nOn the other hand, I am all the time open for suggested
    additions; if someone does make a case for it I can deliver upgrades (or even
    custom fonts) within a few days/weeks. "
  created: '2010-08-04 15:57:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>You\u2019re right. I do generally not allow others to lay hands on
    Andron glyphs. I\u2019m a font designer \u2026\r\nOn the other hand, I am all
    the time open for suggested additions; if someone does make a case for it I can
    deliver upgrades (or even custom fonts) within a few days/weeks.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    do understand. I, on the other hand, am a type user. A completely different perspective.
    Some type designers -- Matthew Carter comes to mind -- are sensitive to this.
    Others are not. The distinction between \"user\" and \"designer\" has blurred
    a lot with the advent of OpnType and the attendant OT features, so when the EULA
    says \"not a jot or title can be changed,\" I try to avoid the fonts; or really,
    try to talk our customers out of using them. \r\n\r\nJust an example, of which
    there are tens to hundreds -- for URLs in the text, if the author/editor has left
    in the less and greater characters, we switch them to angle brackets. So, (1)
    you need angle brackets in the font, (2) you need to kern them with alpha characters,
    and (3) you need a stylistic set to switch them on. Etc.\r\n\r\nKerning, character
    substitutions etc. can be done using the layout program only. In passing, let
    me say that I can screw up a typeface using a layout program only. Bet I can turn
    your stomach. So, you're not protecting your font from the grubby workman's hands,
    s/he can still mess it up. But you are costing us money. If I fix the issues (I
    won't say \"problems\") in the font, we can set the book several hours faster
    than if we have to do the work in the layout program. We are, in the final analysis,
    selling time. Viewed that way, those several hours are pure profit, and important
    to us.\r\n\r\nA few days or weeks is the same as never. Rarely do designers check
    to see if the all the characters needed for a job are actually in the font they've
    chosen. A compositor discovers this the hard way -- a little pink box if the character
    was in the file to start with, or any number of ways if the publisher's editor
    still uses \"codes,\" or somebody scribbled something on the paper MS in an unreadable
    hand . . . Proof is due in a few days, not a few weeks.\r\n\r\nFrom how it looks
    on the screen, I think you probably have a very nice font. I'd like to see a book
    printed 2400 dpi, offset press, direct to plate before recommending it. But I
    sure as shooting won't recommend it if I have to do a font change, maybe with
    size adjustment, baseline position, scaling, whatever, for each instance of a
    mathematical operator not in the font. Etc.\r\n\r\nMaybe all this is moot. Presuming
    it prints well (& I think it will) I think your fonts are worth the money, well
    worth it. But most designers and publishers won't pay over Adobe prices these
    days. Cheap fonts are to font designers what Asia is to U.S. based compositors.
    Ah, commerce."
  created: '2010-08-04 21:47:25'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles, I think we need to differentiate between large foundries and personal
    design work. Giants like Adobe would never address a single ask from a single
    user. Even if the font has a bug, this may take some months before a fix is available.
    Not to mention updates.\r\n\r\nJust an example: I purchased Minion in the old
    Multiple Master times and later purchased it again in OT. Adobe never let me know
    there are updates in Minion. And when I made a claim about the terrible kerning
    in numeral 1, it never received any answer.\r\n\r\nBut individual type designers
    \u2013or even very small foundries\u2013 are a completely different matter. Andreas
    do a wonderful job and his offer to quickly update and address users ask cannot
    be compared to user support from big foundries. I'm sure you may find similar
    support from other type designers as those who use to be here in Typophile.\r\n\r\nSo,
    if you have this kind of answer, why to be allowed to edit the font? I will release
    my first font family in 2011 and hope to follow Andreas good example. This is
    not only good for the user who does a specific ask. This also benefits the font
    itself as it can evolve and become better.\r\n\r\nThere are two situations where
    a change may not be addressed by the type designer. First: if you demand a change
    which is coherent with the font, but takes so much time to be made. In this case,
    I'd simply let the user do the change through a direct, specific and limited permission.
    Second: if user asks for a change which does not fits overall font design. In
    this case, is up to the designer to refuse the change in order to preserve font
    characteristics.\r\n\r\nFinally, I think your statement <em>A few days or weeks
    is the same as never</em> is not fair with designers who actually answer users
    demands. And nowadays there are many resources that let users verify if some glyphs
    are available before purchase. I myself got excellent answers from Typotheque,
    TypeTogether, StormType and OurType prior to purchase fonts.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I
    agree with you that some font prices are very high."
  created: '2010-08-04 23:04:01'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: 'I''m just curious what font designers then think about the following use
    case: I use the TeX based engine LuaTeX which has a built-in font loading library
    derived from FontForge which can, among others apply feature files to the loaded
    fonts. I use this to implement custom OpenType features not present in the font,
    like ligatures for old fonts with no OpenType features. Now does this count as
    modification, does it violate EULAs that prohibit modification (I''m not asking
    about legal aspect, but from font developer''s point of view). Note we are not
    touching the actual font but its in memory representation.'
  created: '2010-08-04 23:16:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'In Bringhurst''s chapter 10 about grooming the font one reads (version 3.1,
    page 199, second paragraph): "If your license forbids improving the font itself,
    the only legal way to tune it is through a software override". '
  created: '2010-08-04 23:30:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: My bad. Andreas is an amazing type designer, btw. Check out his [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/lapidaria/|Lapidaria]]
    if you still need a sans!
  created: '2010-08-05 01:05:05'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Charles: <cite>\u2026 you're not protecting your font from the grubby workman's
    hands, s/he can still mess it up.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, everyone can turn on
    a font editor and screw it up. For that very reason I say to my customers: please
    don\u2019t. It is a matter of ethics in order to keep the design sound, it\u2019s
    a matter of responsibility towards the *reader*. This is a crucial aspect for
    a complex multiscriptive typeface like Andron. And my customers do respect this,
    because they realize what my design is worthy for them. \r\nIf I would allow anyone
    to plumb on my glyphs (which took me *years* to get them proper) then probably
    quirky type bits would appear in print volumes and in the imprint one reads \u201Cthis
    is Andron\u201D. Would be bad reference.\r\n\r\nIt is a different thing, however,
    about technical and implementation issues you\u2019re pointing at. I do not allow
    those in the EULA so far but anyone who buys from me knows: he is listening to
    suggestions. I\u2019m not sure about the one or another Andron user eventually
    screwed it up in order to make any modest technical adjustment. I\u2019m not hysteric
    about that. But for serious issues I think it is all the way better to communicate
    \u2013 and find a solution. Maybe the EULA could get modified in that sense. But
    a font provider simply can\u2019t outgess any users peculiar requirements in advance
    and implement them.\r\nIn the case of adjustments needed you have the choice to
    scream at Adobe or any big elephant and *nothing happens* as Freiberger notices
    \u2013 or to talk to a small font business willing to listen. That\u2019s it what
    the money I cost you is for, too."
  created: '2010-08-05 10:35:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Of course, everyone can turn on a font editor and screw it up.</cte>\r\n\r\nYou
    guys aren't listening to me. What I said was I could screw up a font in a layout
    program, such as InDesign.\r\n\r\nYou also misunderstood what I said about time
    and money. Perhaps I wasn't clear, shame on me, but it also shows you don't understand
    the people who use your fonts, so shame on you.\r\n\r\nFrode: We get a manuscript
    in. No one told us it was coming. It may arrive in paper form, but more likely
    we get an email telling us it is on our FTP site. That's day one. First proof
    is due back to the publisher in 21 calendar days -- AKA 15 working days. Take
    2-3 days off the front and the back of the schedule for general \"processing.\"
    Essentially, we have a two week span to set the book.\r\n\r\nWe do look over the
    MS before beginning the \"computer part\" of setting the book. If special characters
    are needed, the publisher may have told us that (still 21 calender days for a
    solution -- but really only about 10, because the book has to be set, proofed,
    corrected, laid out, etc.) Or, nobody at the pulisher may have noticed any special
    characters. If the author's files, which the editor works on, used Unicode & the
    author & press use, say, Gentium or Charis to do their editing work, the character
    will be there. Who'll notice? Editors aren't real sharp on the standard glyph
    complement of fonts. So. We may discover the need for a character while setting
    the book. We need it today, tomorrow at the latest. Honorable they may be, but
    type designers aren't going to respond that fast. By the way, if the need pops
    up in second proof, you have seven calendar days -- 5 working days.\r\n\r\nThis
    is for scholarly publishing. For commercial publishing, take some time off the
    schedule.\r\n\r\nWhen the manuscript arrives, it will have a set of specifications.
    The designer has already chosen the fonts. If you think they have looked through
    the MS and the selected fonts & made sure every needed character is included in
    the font, I have some nice ocean-front property in Arizona I'll give you a good
    deal on.\r\n\r\nOn the cost of fonts: You guys as type designers may not have
    heard of Richard Eckersley; he was a graphic designer. But good enough to be selected
    as a Royal Designer to Industry. Other RDIs include Matthew Carter. He had that
    sort of status in the book design world.\r\n\r\nWould you be shocked to hear that
    other designers tried to emulate him? Including the fonts he used? (Actually,
    he used very few fonts. Galliard with the Linotron photocomp machines. Minion
    (customized MM format) with PostScript. And finally Trinite, which is the point.
    Now Trinite was abut 900 Euros at the time, for about 9 fonts. No one, not one
    University press / press designer bought the fonts. Way too much money, they said.
    Richard bought them out of his own pocket, the press wouldn't pay. I bought them
    out of my pocket to set his books. All the young designers who wanted to emulate
    Richard couldn't/wouldn't come up with the money.\r\n\r\nIt is probably different
    in advertising. I see people just out of design school sneering at salaries that
    are higher than I make now. But Andron isn't aimed at advertising. Maybe there
    is a market un Europe, there isn't one in the States. It doesn't matter how I
    feel (I bought Trinite, remember), I don't specify the fonts.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nOK,
    such books do get set, and by shops that don't do what we do. How? Simple. They
    go and find a font with the needed character(s) and set the missing characters
    with that font -- A few Arial characters mixed in with the text never hurt anything,
    right? Not out of our shop.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI've only touched on workflow
    realities in scholarly book publishing. If you want to sell to that market, I'd
    think you need to understand it. Maybe simpler to skip that market, but it's the
    only one I know of that deals with linguistics, this thread's topic."
  created: '2010-08-05 13:46:49'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>We need it today, tomorrow at the latest.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, but
    if you discover a character lacking in your body text font one day before printing,
    that smacks of VERY bad management. It\u2019s NO fonting issue AT ALL.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026
    type designers aren't going to respond that fast.</cite>\r\n\r\nHey hey, have
    you already tried that hard?\r\nJust ring him, order and pay a decent express
    delivery charge, like you do in every other sort of business.\r\nYou\u2019ll always
    get what you pay for.\r\n\r\nAnd stop complaining now to font providers about
    what\u2019s going wrong with your workflow. "
  created: '2010-08-05 16:22:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Andreas, You want to blame me, my customers, and their workflow, fine. I'll
    ignore you. Done it my whole life, no need to change now. Hang your stuff in a
    museum & us tradesmen will get on with things. When I visit the museum, I'll take
    a look.
  created: '2010-08-05 16:29:03'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nI did not understood you were talking about a workaround
    with ID. I don't see any problem with this (or with the scenario Khaled described),
    although it's always prefereable not to need any workaround.\r\n\r\nYou described
    a specific workflow plenty of difficulties. Which special characters are missing?
    Maybe this would be interesting to know in order to type designers address this
    kind of issue <em>before</em> they happen \u2013 as <em>after</em> the problem
    is set you will have to rely on a workaround or spend money with a professional
    solution.\r\n\r\nI'd like to have my fonts usable for scholarship publications,
    but probably I'm not aware of some very special issues related to specific publishing
    areas."
  created: '2010-08-05 17:00:53'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Like Charles, I frequently need odd glyphs that type designers have no reason
    to include normally - whether a full Latin alphabet with dots under, obsolete
    symbols like denarius and sestertius signs, nonstandard punctuation marks like
    four-pellet interpuncts, or odd monograms made by compounding two or three Greek
    letters into a single monstrosity. I often don't know in advance what exactly
    will be required until the deadline is near. Some of this exists in some fonts
    - probably Andron Mega, for example - but I can't know in advance that everything
    I need will be there. So, like Charles, for jobs of this kind I avoid typefaces
    whose license doesn't allow modification for internal use.
  created: '2010-08-05 17:42:38'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "David, maybe some of these glyphs could be included in a greater range of
    fonts. Surely, no font would include everything. But it would be useful if people
    with specialized needs \u2013like you and Charles\u2013 make known about these
    symbols (at least the recurring ones)."
  created: '2010-08-05 18:34:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Igor (if I may) you can't include everything one will encounter in scholarly
    publishing. You would spend too much money developing the font. Better to trust
    that compositors and type designers are on the same side. Matthew Carter lets
    me modify his fonts, as does Sumner Stone. They would no doubt let David or Theunis
    or any good comp modify a font too. Anyway, If it is something simple, like putting
    a dot under h,d,s,t,z for transliterated Arabic, no need to even get up with them.
    If it is something complicated, I show them what I've done. Usually, no reply,
    which I take to mean OK. If a designer ever said \"hell no,\" we'd keep working
    on it.\r\n\r\nSetting type has gone on for quite a while now. With metal, you'd
    take a saw to it. With photocomp negatives, opaque, or, depending on the system,
    replace the glyph. Etc. Times past, the type was purchased and belonged to the
    user. Now, it has a license to use, and the designer gets their knickers in a
    knot & says \"no modification.\" A pox upon them. If it is art, hang it in a museum.
    If it is type, let those of us who know how to use type do so.\r\n\r\nBut to give
    you a hint: suppose, as Kevin Mullin stated, you need some mathematical operators
    to complete the linguistic set. OK, find a font that has them. Within InDesign,
    change the font call, size, baseline position, horizontal/vertical scale. Heavier?
    set two, overlapping, but with a one or two-tenths point offset. Etc. Can be done,
    takes time for each one, costs more money for the lost time. Now, from the printed
    book, can anyone tell this was done using InDesign, (lawful) or by modifying the
    font (unlawful)? No, how could you.\r\n\r\nAnother wrinkle. I'd want to direct-format
    these calls to another font rather than use a character style. Why? Because someone
    is going to extract xhtml from the InDesign files for an EPUB book, and on export,
    I want to include character styles as hooks for further clean up -- footnote calls
    come to mind. During xhtml cleanup, I don't want to have to make another pass
    to decide which characters style hooks to strip, which to leave -- or at least,
    add another to the list.\r\n\r\nOr suppose you need dots under h,d,s,t,z. No combining
    diacriticals in the font. Take a period. Kern it back, lower it, make it smaller.
    Kern the following character to regain character spacing. Can you tell I did it
    with the layout program rather than in the font? No, it will print fine (but cost
    me $100 or so in lost time if there were a bunch of them). BUT. That xhtml file
    mentioned above will now have the wrong Unicode character (period instead of dotbelow),
    and that's my fault. It's Kindle/Apple/Barns & Nobels fault if their damn readers
    can't render valid Unicode. It's my fault if it isn't proper Unicode.\r\n\r\nJust
    for the meanness of it, take your beautiful font & use it in InDesign. Find/Change
    all lower case a's to have a width 200 percent normal. All u's to have a width
    50% normal. Lower the baseline of all e's and o's. You get the point. I can keep
    going, and the font designer has no recourse. S/he is dependent on my good intentions.\r\n\r\nLess
    mean but still ugly, you have to save a line to avoid a widow. No problem, condense
    the type in a paragraph until all the letters in the last line come up. Gee. You
    had to use 90%. Oh well, line saved. Use excessively small word space minimums.
    Less hyphenation for the customer to complain about. Change the ideal spaceband
    percentage. Etc.\r\n\r\nAs long type is to be used for a further product, the
    type designer and compositor are partners. Soon as one says \"I'm more important,\"
    things suffer."
  created: '2010-08-05 19:22:54'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles, thanks for share some issues regarding scholarly publishing. I understand
    your point \u2013and also Andreas'. Yours would be one of these cases where I
    think a special EULA is the logical solution. I even consider this easy to solve
    through direct contact between user and designer.\r\n\r\nOf course, some would
    prefer not to let any user to edit anything, while others would permit anyone
    to do many things. I'm a newbie type designer and after reading arguments posted
    here think a good solution is a general restrict EULA with the possibility to
    adopt a permissive EULA to some customers.\r\n\r\nAbout the issues you pointed,
    I'm well aware there is no way to include all solutions in a single font. But
    I'd like to add at least some of them, as I said to David. Actually, some are
    already in my project (like d-h-s-t-z with dot bellow). Some may be considered,
    as obsolete Roman signs which are relevant to Historians. And some I even don't
    know they exist.\r\n\r\nIf you and David would point other useful recurring \"obscure\"
    glyphs, I'll be glad.\r\n\r\nBTW, here is how my d-h-s-t-z with dot bellow look
    like (just UC, lc and small caps by now, petite caps are under final development):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dotbellow_5621.png]"
  created: '2010-08-06 01:29:49'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "dhstz with underdots are needed for transliterated Arabic -- these days,
    it happens a lot. BTW, I think your underdots need to be a touch lower, but am
    not sure. How do they look (read) in a 10-point setting? Easy to see the are underdots?
    How do they fit next to letters that have a descender? With other diacriticals
    that set below a character?\r\n\r\nAlso transliterated \"Indic Scripts\" I forget
    all needed characters, l,m,n,r with dots above and below, some with macrons above/below,
    some with both. Not a lot of characters, and transliterated Indic Scripts are
    not as common as Arabic just now. But it happens.\r\n\r\nI'd pick languages you
    want to support. European, African, Latin transliterations, whatever. You can
    do a search for just what is needed. Have your fonts make sense -- I can't remember
    how many times I've seen the liga feature written to drop out the fi ligature
    for Turkish when the other characters needed to set Turkish are not in the font.
    What's the point?\r\n\r\nThen there are the technical character sets, like linguistics,
    which started this thread. There may be requirements for these character sets
    you're unaware of. Several long threads on this subject (linguistics) in the typophile
    archives.\r\n\r\nSometimes there are just a few special characters needed for
    a book, less often, a lot. How to decide which ones? Whatever you choose will
    be both too many, and too few.\r\n\r\nYou sound like you want to develop one or
    two font to do everything. I set type far more often than I design, but when designing
    (I pick the font), I look at the type of book I'm designing (history, literary
    criticism, social science, etc.), the time period, audience, and so on. As a designer
    (who can make a few needed characters), these things have as much weight in the
    choice as the character set. \r\n\r\nI do not think it wise to spend too much
    time, at least early in your new career, to try to cover too many special characters
    unless you see an audience for your work.\r\n\r\nFinally, it is very hard to say
    \"this comp can modify my font, that one can't.\" Many designers (who pick the
    fonts) set their own books. And usually, if the designer is to use an outside
    typesetter, they pick them. Sometimes a production manager or art director picks.
    None of these people are going to call you, write you, to see just which comp
    can modify your font. And if I decide to modify your font, as I posted above,
    how will you know? Maybe I kerned macrons, maybe I drew up the characters.\r\n\r\nIf
    your type design is quite successful, it will eventually get used by a \"less
    than skilled\" typesetter -- it will look poor, even if they don't modify the
    font. Far as that goes, it will be selected by a \"less than skilled designer,\"
    who will use poor size, leading, or margin choices. This will affect how your
    type looks, but is outside your control.\r\n\r\nWhatever you EULA says, you should
    think the old way: you provide a tool, someone else uses it, sometimes well, sometimes
    not. If it is used poorly, there is nothing you can do about it, so don't loose
    sleep over it.\r\n\r\nWell, a lot of opinions."
  created: '2010-08-06 02:44:07'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Thanks again, Charles. Your opinions are useful and plenty of information.
    Actually, this font is designed to technical, legal and academic texts. It will
    cover all Latin-based languages (I did extensive search about many alphabets).
    Transliterations from Cyrillic, Arabic, Indic and Chinese are also included. At
    this point, all uppercase, lowercase and small caps are ready. Petite caps are
    on the way (I think this would become off topic so you may find more info [[http://typophile.com/node/67787|here.]]).
  created: '2010-08-06 03:00:54'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Andreas, You want to blame me, my customers, and their workflow, fine.
    I'll ignore you. Done it my whole life, no need to change now. Hang your stuff
    in a museum & us tradesmen will get on with things. When I visit the museum, I'll
    take a look.</cite>\r\n\r\nCharles, why so sarcastic? \r\n\r\nOk, \u2018wrong
    with your workflow\u2019 may have been too harsh a word. I just wondered about
    the appearently spontaneous approach to dealing with some type issues, which I
    find rather strange in professional scientific publishing. And why should the
    fontist be the bad guy because he has his own mind, when you are in a hurry with
    your job? I think I have made it quite clear that I *AM* cooperative, there are
    people around who would testify this. \r\n\r\nI started the Andron project 10
    years ago on grounds of the intention to provide a font which offers a possibly
    most comprehensive character coverage for relevant subjects. And for that very
    reason my customers buy Andron licences. Because they simply know a coverage gap
    spoted at tea time is extremely unlikely with Andron. It saves them trouble, time
    and money. \u2013 That\u2019s a kind of workflow too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-06 16:47:27'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I took the time to look at a few drafts and papers from people of the <a
    href=\"http://web.linguist.umass.edu/~mccarthy-pater-nsf/\">Grant Group on Optimality
    Theory</a> to which Kevin belongs at Umass.  Here is a sample of what I saw (that
    I reproduced with XeLaTeX without suitable mathematical symbols; I used the +
    from Charis and made do with the MnSymbol universal quantifier).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/linguistics_4115.jpg]\r\nAlso,
    look at that <a href=\"http://roa.rutgers.edu/files/984-0708/984-POTTS-0-0.PDF\"><strong>Article
    to appear in Phonology</strong></a> by one of the leaders of the group, that uses
    methods of operations research.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, it is not just a fully functional
    font with plenty of characters that is needed, but also a  corresponding mathematical
    font that can be used with the XeTeX <a href=\"http://ctan.org/pkg/unicode-math\"><strong>unicode-math</strong></a>
    package or an equation editor. \r\n\r\nMichel\r\n\r\nPS Khaled, I know that you
    have been working on two such math fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-06 19:43:05'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: Igor, I added some comments on glyph support to your [[http://www.typophile.com/node/67787|Palimpsest
    thread]], so as not to take this one any further off topic than it already is.
  created: '2010-08-06 23:37:30'
date: '2010-08-02 10:29:48'
node_type: forum
title: font/style recommendations for linguistic manuscripts

---
