---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "I\u2019m playing with the idea of using graphic design/type design for something
  meaningful, beside creating beautiful things, and wonder if any of you have some
  experiences to share.  \r\n\r\nObviously, funding is a big aspect. I don\u2019t
  intend to work for free \u2014 significant discounts make a lot more sense to me.
  I also plan to look into fundraising/donations for good causes. \r\n\r\nWhat is
  a good project, and how do you pick them? Is it better to approach potential clients
  than advertising your services? Are there any type related needs? \r\n\r\nOn of
  my biggest dreams is to be able to assist in the developement of a new writing system,
  but how often does that happen nowadays? ;)\r\n\r\nThis is a fresh idea for me.
  Please, share your thoughts!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The less you charge the more difficult the client. I'd charge double and
    make a donation to the cause. Not sure if that's tax deductible though.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 01:18:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Double?
  created: '2010-08-04 02:17:34'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "Maybe browse this?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.frivillighetnorge.no/\r\n\r\nOr ask
    in a local library to find very small local groups?"
  created: '2010-08-04 02:21:13'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I have done pro bono stuff to promote art and artists such as screen posters,
    make banners, layout logos and flyers etc. I do free graphics for the local rock
    and mineral society. But, they are very free with their assistance and advice
    to my son who now enjoys lapidary work as much as video games. I have charged
    only nominal fees from the Illinois River conservation organizations here in Oklahoma.
    I believe in what they are trying to do.\r\n\r\nNothing earth shattering or of
    lasting importance..."
  created: '2010-08-04 02:36:29'
- author:
    name: Anthony Noel
  body: "Good on you.. here's some things to think about:\r\n\r\nIdentify your cause.
    Are you into politics, aid work, the local arts scene? \r\n\r\nStart networking,
    especially if it's local causes you're into. You mind find someone from your existing
    client base is also involved in charity work, can you do anything through them?
    Or if you're viewpoint is more global, get online, there's loads of volunteer
    networks out there, here's a couple:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.volunteermatch.com.au/\r\nhttp://idealist.org/\r\n\r\nPeople
    may be posting their design needs on there.\r\n\r\nSecondly, think about what
    you want to get out of it for yourself:\r\nAre you looking for an opportunity
    to flex your creative muscles away from commercial pressures? Think hard about
    that because you're still offering a design solution to someone else's problem,
    regardless of whether there is a fee involved.\r\nIf you have an idea that's waiting
    for the right client to come along, why not get on and develop it anyway? If you
    open it up to collaboration (make it open source in other words) then probably
    the right recipient will come along through the glorious interconnectedness of
    the interweb.\r\n\r\nFinally; fees...\r\nIf you're serious about offering specialist
    design services to the non-profit and charitable sector as a commercial venture
    (for want of a better word) or as a second revenue stream, then you should treat
    it like any other target customer base.. build a portfolio, make a name for yourself,
    look for ways to get on their rosters. research who commissions design regularly,
    and which agencies do the work; that will give you a taste of what might be involved.
    But even then, be prepared for marked differences in corporate culture from what
    you may be used to in a wholly commercial context \u2013 not least decisions by
    committee, politically correct considerations and stakeholder interest.\r\n\r\nAlternatively,
    you mentioned fundraising. It's possible that you could approach your chosen cause
    with your great idea, and offer to raise your fee yourself \u2013 through normal
    activity like marathons or stunts or whatever, but be careful this doesn't just
    look like self interest. For most of Joe Public, justifying design fees would
    be a tall order, even heavily discounted ones. Better to look at where your chosen
    cause gets their funding from and make an approach to collaborate with one of
    their existing supporters (but make sure you have your cause's approval first).
    You could also think about match funding: both you and your cause agree to meet
    half of the fee each \u2013 they go to their supporters for the extra, you donate
    your time.\r\n\r\nAs for fundraising itself, look at the work that the people
    behind building letters (http://www.buildingletters.org/) have done. You could
    do something similar, that is to say, work out a way that your design skills could
    generate donations and build a system to involve the type community, in other
    words, get entrepreneurial. Forget taking a cut for yourself though.\r\n\r\nLast
    but not least, to cover your costs if that is really important, work out what
    proportion of your working month you will spend on Pro Bono work, and hike up
    your normal fees to compensate."
  created: '2010-08-04 07:12:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's extremely difficult to run an \"ethical\" business, because that's not
    the purpose of business.\r\nIt's the purpose of business to make a profit, and
    of government to regulate that process so that it's not too damaging.\r\nJane
    Jacobs discussed the mutual exclusivity of this relationship in <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systems_of_Survival\">Systems
    of Survival</a>.\r\n\r\nSelf-regulation is corrupted by vested interests.\r\n\r\nPeople
    (\"consumers\") part with their money for price, quality, or service; virtue (e.g.
    fair-trade organic) is a harder sell.\r\nGiven the difficulty, you need exceptional
    business skills to make a \"good\" business work, and you will always be putting
    yourself at a competitive disadvantage to those who play by the existing rules,
    or cut corners.\r\n\r\nTherefore it is better for idealists to make a healthy
    income within the system, and use that wealth (and/or their professional skills)
    as 100% gift to idealistic organizations run completely by volunteers.\r\n\r\nI
    would be wary of supporting \"establishment\" do-good organizations with salaried
    staff, because these organizations generally rely for their funding on sponsorship
    (from various corporate sources and government bodies), as well as having an infrastructure
    to maintain, both of which compromise their integrity. Having to meet a \"quota\"
    of sales or income is, as Jacobs argues, fundamentally non-ethical. IMO, grassroots
    shit-disturbers make the most difference. \r\n\r\n\"They sentenced me to twenty
    years of boredom\r\nFor trying to change the system from within\"\r\n--Leonard
    Cohen"
  created: '2010-08-04 15:09:50'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  you're still offering a design solution to someone \r\n> else's problem,
    regardless of whether there is a fee involved.\r\n\r\nYeah, sometimes designers
    doing pro bono work assume that their client will give them complete creative
    freedom. But clients -- even pro bono ones -- expect you to come up with a design
    solution that they like and which effectively communicates their message. They
    don't care if it'll look nice in your portfolio or not, and they won't hesitate
    to say \"I don't like that design.\"\r\n\r\nSo it's important to pick your clients
    carefully and to discuss expectations before you start work. Show them examples
    of your work to make sure they're comfortable with your style.  Explain your working
    method. Find out if you'll be working with an individual or a committee. Ask them
    about their budget for things like photography, and ask who the printer is going
    to be and what the printer's expectations are (they may be printing the job for
    free or at a low cost).\r\n\r\nAnd if you're expecting a lot of creative freedom,
    make sure they agree to that from the start of the project."
  created: '2010-08-04 15:39:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Creative freedom should be the last thing on your mind.\r\nThere's nothing
    that looks less convincing, for an altruistic cause, than a self-indulgent \"creative\"
    design.\r\nUnless, of course, the work is targeted at one's peers, eg for an environmentally-friendly
    paper stock.\r\nBut those are the most sought-after clients, and unless you are
    an award-winner, hard to get."
  created: '2010-08-04 15:42:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  would be wary of supporting \"establishment\" \r\n> do-good organizations
    with salaried staff...\r\n\r\nI see your point, but don't most non-profits have
    some salaried staff? \r\n\r\nIf it's a just a yearly charity event, then it might
    be just volunteers, but if it's an organization that works year-round, they'll
    probably have some full-time staff and those people need paychecks to support
    their families.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 16:00:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...don't most non-profits have some salaried staff?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    why I favor supporting volunteer activists directly addressing specific issues,
    rather than the institutionalized bureaucracy of fund-raising by non-profits.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-04 17:22:02'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Guys, I really apprechiate all this input. If I\u2019ll take on pro bono
    projects, the last reason would be to get nice portfolio pieces. I do have some
    specific causes in mind and networking sounds like a good first step. I have to
    take some time to read carefully through all your answers. \r\n\r\nIt would be
    great to hear about or see examples of idealistic design projects you\u2019ve
    been involved in, btw."
  created: '2010-08-04 21:11:02'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "One thing you need to do before you get into this is research the seedy side
    of the non-profit world. There are just as many incompetents, scumbags, sleazeballs
    and sociopaths in the non-profit world as there are in businesses. Politicians
    set up charities run by their spouses as a way of taking bribes. Rich people start
    them to keep spouses busy and away from the pool boy. Technology corporations
    fund them as a way of bringing their products to the poor\u2014they\u2019re really
    just lobbying the government to help establish and expand monopolies. And when
    you have to deal with the legit non-profits they\u2019re often staffed with crazy
    do-gooders who refuse to lose any argument because they\u2019re convinced that
    they\u2019re saving the world. So if you think focusing on non-profits is going
    to distance you from the disappointment of meaningless work, think again.\r\n\r\nI
    stopped working with non-for-profits entirely after the last one I worked with
    would set up meetings between myself and the guy who ran it for which he rarely
    showed. The unpaid interns were supposed to deliver his instructions or files
    or whatever but never actually knew where any of it was."
  created: '2010-08-04 22:53:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A CIA operative, no doubt.\r\nYou're on file."
  created: '2010-08-04 22:59:53'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "\"I stopped working with non-for-profits entirely\"\r\n\r\nGood for you to
    generalize a bad experience into an overall policy....you don't seem cut out to
    work with crazy do-gooders....\r\n\r\nAnd on all-volunteer groups vs. organizations
    with some or all paid staff (apart from board members, who must be volunteers
    in most western countries): apart from small or ephemeral groups, effective nonprofits
    have to pay their staff. Otherwise they can't achieve good scale of impact and
    sustain their efforts. The volunteers burn out, cash isn't available for things
    like office space, etc. Energy is spent but long-term impact is low.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is is to look around at the nonprofits and see how much they spend on the
    mission and how much they spend on fundraising and everything else. ROUGHLY 20%
    on non-mission expenses is entirely normal. In some areas of work it's more, in
    some less.  It's the same in the for-profit world - would we invest in a company
    whose CEO brags about never spending anything on sales, marketing or HR, and only
    on direct production? Such a company couldn't even get product to market."
  created: '2010-08-05 02:22:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...apart from small or ephemeral groups, effective nonprofits have to
    pay their staff. </em>\r\n\r\nYou don't have to go large or long-lived, or corporatize,
    to be an effective activist.\r\nYou don't have to be \"non-profit\" -- what is
    that anyway? Not making money isn't the goal, it's no way to define what you're
    doing.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-05 03:35:03'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "I'm fortunate to have spent many years working full-time for a not-for-profit
    educational and development organization whose overall purpose is to serve minority
    language communities ([[http://www.sil.org/|SIL International]]). It is very rewarding
    to invest my daily work in projects that help people. I feel like my work is leaving
    a lasting legacy - not for me, as fonts can often be unnoticed and taken for granted
    - but for the millions of people trying to hold on to their language and culture
    while becoming citizens of the information world.\r\n\r\nThe cost of this decision
    was not small, for me or my family. Because most of the funds given directly to
    SIL go to supporting development projects, most of the staff serve as unsalaried
    volunteers. We can do this because of a faithful group of friends and organizations
    who share our goals and provide financial support for our family. It takes significant
    effort to maintain this body of supporters, which obviously reduces my technical
    productivity - but also keeps me in touch with a lot of dear friends.\r\n\r\nIt
    is also possible, though, to have an equal (or greater) impact while working for
    normal for-profit companies. I think of a couple of former SIL colleagues who
    now work for large corporations but have, through those jobs, made life better
    for minority groups. They've helped their companies understand the benefits of
    broadening their character set support and provided technical know-how to do it.\r\n\r\nWe're
    also getting ready to unveil a new web site (ScriptSource) that will help link
    volunteers (designers and programmers) with font and software development needs.
    It would be a great way to find a project to contribute to. It's not public yet,
    but you can see where we're at by going to the [[http://www.scriptsource.org/|ScriptSource
    web site]]. I'll be at ATypI in Dublin in case you wanted to chat about getting
    involved as a part-time volunteer with some project.\r\n\r\nIt's humbling and
    satisfying to be able to create beautiful things that also meet people's real
    needs."
  created: '2010-08-05 09:47:20'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "Nick, \"corporate\" needn't be pejorative.  It can mean well-organized, paying
    for experience, being willing to hire professional services as needed (IT staff,
    accounting, even designers), etc.\r\n\r\nIf we think that, say, human rights groups
    fighting discrimination should be exclusively done for free, there will be a big
    imbalance in our society with government and business being well-funded and having
    tools the nonprofits don't have. A few highly motivated activists with weak institutions
    will have a hard time achieving results. And what about helping homeless people
    or providing low-cost health services to poor communities (less of an issue in
    Canada but a big one in the U.S.).  Only volunteers?  It's hard to have sufficient
    scale and impact with all volunteers. They burn out (unless they are wealthy already
    w/o need for a \"day job\") and the organizations will tend to not have organizational
    structures in place to make best use of resources of donations (even donations
    of time from volunteers) due to burnout and turnover. \r\n\r\nIf there is an emergency
    or short-term crisis, yeah, volunteers can make a huge difference.  But if we're
    talking about dealing with a long-term problems, we need long-term action.  And
    if we're talking about advocacy against, say, well-funded corporations on an environmental
    or health issue, you usually have to pay some people to succeed. I think in Canada
    about 7% of the economy is from nonprofit activities and in the US a little more.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    in most places \"non profit\" means that any money raised above costs must go
    back into programs that help people, rather than into the pockets of owners or
    investors.  So if a nonprofit runs a surplus one year, they have to do something
    useful with it that fits their mission. \r\n\r\nGood point that the phrase is
    lame - defining something by what it's not.  Some other phrases that avoid that
    problem, but are not great either are \"civil society organizations,\" \"private
    \ public-serving organizations,\" and (for local groups) \"community-based organizations.\"
    \ Also \"private voluntary organizations,\" but that term is very misleading since
    a lot of PVOs have paid staff and only the board is voluntary."
  created: '2010-08-05 11:25:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A few highly motivated activists with weak institutions will have a hard
    time achieving results. </em>\r\n\r\n\"Never believe that a few caring people
    can't change the world. For, indeed, that's all who ever have.\" -- Margaret Mead.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-05 15:14:08'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "You should move to the UK so you can join David Cameron's Big Society! (Only
    kidding, everyone should be trying to get the hell out.)\r\n\r\nSeriously though,
    I commend Frode. I too would like to do something that I felt made a difference
    somehow, though lately I question how much power there is to do this with design.
    I'm not really a business man, though I think lot's of people here are and I don't
    mean to be dismissive of that. Perhaps it's a lack of realism on my part, idealism.
    I could have gone and made money after school, I had the right grades, support
    etc., but I chose this profession and when it just resembles money making I wonder
    what the big difference is and why I became involved.\r\n\r\nI understand why
    people here though are saying juice the affluent clients and make donations elsewhere,
    but IMHO that sounds a bit like trickle down wealth and I'm not convinced that
    works, the richest societies being the most polarised. \r\n\r\nRedesigning charities
    etc. just doesn't seem that impacting to me, but then I guess I like to see quantifiable
    results and don't have much faith in value adding marketing in a media swollen
    world. Occasionally charities have strange successes though, such as the popularity
    of the much copied Livestrong wristband (Wieden Kennedy I think were responsible),
    though this was probably a huge deal in the first place. I guess you can be charitable
    with your skills to do things like tutoring (nominal fee or for free) and so on,
    perhaps not generating huge results either but it is still a noble thing to do.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    it all starts with good intention and working out how to pursue it, which I guess
    is why you are here and why I am responding. I too am interested to have some
    involvement."
  created: '2010-08-05 17:26:37'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Good for you to generalize a bad experience into an overall policy....you
    don't seem cut out to work with crazy do-gooders....</cite>\r\n\r\nI did do a
    very bad job of painting with an overly wide brush there. What I meant to say
    what that I stopped <em>volunteering</em> for not-for-profits. And I wasn't attacking
    all of them as evil and corrupt, just pointing out that not-for-profit corporations
    can have the problems that for profit ones do, and that working for them is not
    necessarily any more satisfying."
  created: '2010-08-05 20:35:11'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "I agree Dunwich Type.\r\n\r\nAlso, re 1985 mentioned, there's some movement
    toward \"design thinking\" in more non-profit groups.\r\n\r\nTake a look at this:\r\nhttp://www.ideo.com/work/item/human-centered-design-toolkit/\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if this is the sort of design area in which Frode's expertise lies. "
  created: '2010-08-06 01:11:01'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "To clarify what I said previously, it was typography/graphic design as a
    realistic catalyst or factor in change that I was questioning, as opposed to perhaps
    product or industrial design which more obviously makes huge changes. For example
    the roundabout pump.\r\n\r\nOf course good graphic design will aid anyone who
    invests in it, but exactly how much, I'm no longer sure."
  created: '2010-08-06 08:51:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "As stated I'm not interested in nice portfolio pieces, neither am I interested
    in creative freedom. I don't view commercial design as less meaningful, in fact
    large parts of my religious and philosophical understanding of life is founded
    on creativity as something meaningful in itself. \r\nThat said, I hope whatever
    I'll take on will feel meaningful.\r\n\r\nI'm not afraid of corruption, but vary
    of those meaning well but not necessarily doing good.  \r\n\r\n@Victor Gaultney:
    That sounds very interesting! I'd love to get in touch with you, but I'm not sure
    if I'll make it to Dublin this year. Could I contact you offline? "
  created: '2010-08-06 17:15:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "@ Andrew (1985): Thanks! I do believe there are many possibilities. Design
    (and art) can aid political influence, it can help spread crucial information
    about things like HIV/Aids, make products more effective, help develope written
    language for minorities ... and so on. I also understand your thoughts.\r\n\r\nThank
    you, guys! I'm still following the thread if someone wants to share experiences
    or advice."
  created: '2010-08-06 17:16:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Bravo, Frode! Much of the pro bono work I have done has been working with
    volunteers as clients. They have a day job, a family, and a charity to help.  This
    means they have little time and may come and go. This can be tough on them and
    on you. Be patient and understanding of indecision and tardiness.
  created: '2010-08-06 18:16:50'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: Feel free to contact me - there's a contact form on this site, or you can
    write to me at myfirstname_mylastname@sil.org
  created: '2010-08-07 09:41:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "\r\n>It's the purpose of business to make a profit,\r\n\r\nUh, no. The purpose
    of a business is to create a customer. Profit may come or it may not.\r\nAnd as
    customers, the not-for-profit sector is little different than anybody else. But
    it's a huge sector of the US economy, at least - and probably any developed nation,
    I would imagine.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your efforts, Frode.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-08-08 14:50:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The purpose of a business is to create a customer.</em>\r\n\r\nRichard,
    you'll be telling us next that the purpose of sex is to make babies :-)"
  created: '2010-08-08 18:56:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Frode, as some commercial said, \"Just do it.\"\r\n\r\nFor what it it's worth,
    I have two prices: full, and free. Whatever a project, once you agree to do it,
    the satisfaction usually comes from your work, not the cause. Bad work for a good
    cause is still disappointing, and in my case, I found discounts lead to less than
    my best work. Your personality may differ.\r\n\r\nI'll allow that with advancing
    yeas, I find work that supports a good cause -- however you select \"good\" --
    something I'm not only willing to do, but interested in. It would be easier if
    we dealt with food, shelter, medicine. But we don't. There are still things, people,
    who can benefit from our talents, such as they may be."
  created: '2010-08-15 14:05:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick shinn\r\n\r\nActually, I <em>should</em> have attributed my statement
    to the guy who said it first (unless he ripped it from someone else): management
    and economics guru Peter Drucker.\r\n\r\nHow you <em>look</em> at a thing - especially
    the angle of view - makes all the diff. As true in business as it is in design!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-15 15:17:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '@Charles: The reason I''m reluctant to free work is clients tend to have
    little appreciation for something they don''t view as valueable, leaving them
    with no reason to honour your agreement.'
  created: '2010-08-15 15:30:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Frode,\r\n\r\nI'm a bit lost. If this happened, since the work was free,
    what agreements needed honoring? (& I must confess I haven't read the entire thread.)\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, this hasn't been my experience. I have had clients for whom I did some
    pro bone work, and the next project was full price. Admittedly, my experiences
    are a small sample size. Still, at some point you just have to choose when to
    donate your skills, or not. "
  created: '2010-08-16 03:39:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "It differs from project to project I guess, but I\u2019ve had clients neglect
    their part of the deal: not delivering materiel on time, not honoring credit agreements,
    reusing material without permission, asking for a lot more than agreed upon ++
    \r\n\r\nIf it\u2019s free they assume it doesn\u2019t cost anything to give it
    away."
  created: '2010-08-16 06:01:35'
date: '2010-08-04 01:11:15'
node_type: forum
title: Non profit, pro bono and idealism

---
