---
author:
  name: Richard Fink
  picture: 117375
body: "Slogging through info on hyphenation, I came across this on Wikipedia:\r\n\r\n\"<em>The
  first use of the hyphen\u2014and its origination\u2014is often credited to Johannes
  Gutenberg of Mainz, Germany circa 1455 with the publication of his 42-line Bible.
  Examination of an original copy on vellum (Hubay index #35) in the U. S. Library
  of Congress shows that Gutenberg's movable type was set justified in a uniform style,
  42 equal lines per page.</em>\"\r\n\r\nSince \"often credited\" is a bit of a dodge,
  I turn to the scholars here at Typophile for something more.\r\n\r\nAnybody got
  a beef with the statement \"Gutenberg invented the hyphen\"? True, false, we're
  just not sure... I'm interested in anything.\r\n\r\nAlso, were there any precursors
  - prior to the invention of movable type - that might have made Gutenberg's hyphen
  more familiar to readers of the time, or did it spring full-blown with Gutenberg?\r\n\r\nAny
  info greatly appreciated."
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: The word <em>hyphen/huphen</em> is late Greek and is translated as "hyphen,"
    so its use predates Gutenberg...
  created: '2010-08-09 17:49:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The hyphen, in both single stroke and double stroke forms, pre-exists moveable
    type and, like other aspects of Gutenberg's typography, is found in the manuscript
    tradition that he was emulating. Gutenberg used the double stroke hyphen, which
    seems to be most common in the 15th Century.\r\n\r\nRemember also that the hyphen
    serves two functions: to indicate a word broken at the end of a line, and also
    to indicate compound words. The Hebrew equivalent, the <em>maqaf</em> was definitely
    in use by the end of the first millennium AD, as it is a standard feature of the
    Masoretic codices."
  created: '2010-08-09 18:29:41'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "John\u2019s right of course.\r\n\r\nDouble hyphens appear in MSS from the
    14th century. Not to be confused with a similar looking double horizontal stroke
    that denotes an abbreviation. The single hyphen (or a hairline stroke) dates back
    to at least the 12th century. Can supply a scan if required."
  created: '2010-08-10 20:02:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@oldnick\r\n>The word hyphen/huphen is late Greek\r\n\r\nGood observation.
    The question to me, then, is whether the Greek term is a direct translation -
    a graphic arts term - or something borrowed from another sphere and applied to
    type as so often happens when you need to coin a term. (Where is my old friend
    Costa Stamos when I need him most? Gotta check Facebook.)\r\n\r\n@john hudson\r\nThanks.
    I suspected it had roots.\r\nI suppose it *is* fair to say - though a little tautological
    - that Gutenberg was the first to use the hyphen in print.\r\nYay? Nay?\r\n\r\nAnybody
    else with info? Greatly appreciated. Gotta go Google Masoretic codices, now.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 20:24:28'
- author:
    name: Fiver
    picture: 117183
  body: 'I have a few examples (French and Latin) in Codices illustres (Tashen) that
    date back to 1230. The hyphens were inserted anywhere in the word. '
  created: '2010-08-10 20:33:32'
- author:
    name: phersain
  body: "@John Boardley\r\n>Can supply a scan if required.\r\n\r\nIf you would be
    so kind, I'd love to see it. Not sceptic, just inspired by such sort of things
    :) Thank you very much!"
  created: '2010-08-10 20:44:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: I'd love to see a scan of that, too!
  created: '2010-08-10 20:48:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Gotta go Google Masoretic codices, now.\r\n\r\nL codex:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LcodexMa_4246.jpg]"
  created: '2010-08-10 20:59:30'
- author:
    name: crych
    picture: 117192
  body: "re Greek origins, see OED 1st s.v. 'hyphen'; LSJ: derived from adverb \u1F51\u03C6\u03AD\u03BD
    = in one; [cup] 'written below two consecutive letters to show that they belong
    to the same word'"
  created: '2010-08-10 21:12:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david hamuel\r\n\r\nThanks. I was looking at the codices elsewhere but didn't
    really know what to look for.\r\nMy Hebrew is worse than rusty, but it looks like
    the \"hyphen\" is being used as a connector to re-inforce what's modifying what
    within certain types of phrases.\r\nWow, this is dredging up knowledge I forgot
    I had from my days as a student at an Orthodox temple. (My Dad had a lousy voice
    but he was a proficient cantor - he would pinch hit sometimes on Saturday mornings
    when one of the more observant (and therefore more appropriate) guys were out
    sick. He was an unlikely chazan (cantor) - a very secular, worldly guy - who had
    received a huge amount of training in his youth and had the whole repertoire down
    cold. Never got rusty, either. Weird - kind of like a photographic memory.)\r\n\r\nSo,
    can it be not a typographic but a musical cue? Saying, \"sing as one phrase in
    one breath\"? It's certainly a connector - a \"hyphen\" - but it's purpose makes
    more sense to me that way.\r\nWaddaya think? Anybody know for sure?\r\n\r\n@crych\r\nThanks,
    as well. That settles that.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-08-10 23:22:58'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> So, can it be not a typographic but a musical cue?\r\n\r\nmusical...? definitely
    not at the beginning. The Tiberian system was  developed in several phases; first
    \u2014 the accents above the words  (\"copied\" the Babylonian tradition); second
    \u2014 the accents under the letters; third \u2014 the vowels. \r\nWe don't know
    all the rules of the maqaf. The most common rule: word preceding the maqaf changes
    in two ways: the vowel changes as well as its  accent/ta'am. "
  created: '2010-08-11 01:01:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This thread inspired me to do some Google searching which ended up piquing
    my curiosity about the older Babylonian vocalization and Palestinian vocalization
    used for Hebrew instead of the current Tiberian vocalization.\r\n\r\nI found that
    one program which extended TEX to handle Hebrew allowed the use of alternate vocalizations:
    Makor.\r\n\r\nBut sadly, it was built to use Omega, which ended up being abandoned.
    There is current software for Hebrew typesetting, but apparently nothing currently
    available is fully the equal of Makor. Since Mem is based on Lambda, and Lambda
    is a successor to Omega, I suppose a port might be remotely possible..."
  created: '2010-08-11 23:38:11'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "John\r\n\r\nThe files in makor2 are rather messy. There are missing utilities,
    missing fonts (omsehe.tfm is even missing from texlive2009 even if omsehe.pfb
    is there), some fontinst files needed to be corrected, the ezra font was coming
    out badly... and I eventually had  more clean up to do than I expected; the result
    is here: (<a href=\"http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/makor2.tgz\"><strong>makor2.tgz
    (3976 KB)</strong></a>.\r\n\r\nJust untar in <code>kpsewhich -var-value TEXMFHOME</code>,
    and apply texhash.\r\n\r\nThe test file with archaic vowel points is <code>.../texmf/tex/makor2/doc/archaic.tex</code>.
    With texlive 2009 on my mac, all I need to do to get the pdf is to execute:\r\n\r\n<code>aleph
    archaic\r\ndvipdfm archaic</code>\r\n\r\nThe same works with  <code>esther.tex,
    talmud.tex, vocal.tex, siloam.tex, siloamalt.tex, ohalph.tex, jabberwock.tex,
    german.tex, trpnv.tex</code>. I found no no way to process latex files.\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2010-08-13 20:35:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: For LaTeX files, just use <code>lamed</code> instead of <code>aleph</code>.
  created: '2010-08-14 13:10:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@david hamuel\r\n\r\n<em>We don't know all the rules of the maqaf. The most
    common rule: word preceding the maqaf changes in two ways: the vowel changes as
    well as its accent/ta'am.</em>\r\nMakes sense.\r\n\r\nAs far as it doing double-duty
    as a rudimentary form of musical notation, (does anybody remember Mitch Miller
    and \"follow the bouncing ball\"?) one thing seems certain: if not chanted, these
    texts were read aloud because the general population was largely illiterate.\r\n\r\nIt
    just makes a lot of sense to me - I'm still speculating, though, of course - that
    the end of line hyphen was important as a visual cue to the reader saying, \"hey,
    there's more of the word (or phrase) coming up on the next line.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    other thing I was curious about was to what extent the value of paper played a
    part in keeping the line lengths the same. In other words, did justification have
    roots in using paper, or vellum, or parchment, or whatever, to it's full value.\r\nI
    assume it was very costly to produce.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2010-08-14 19:14:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich, Joshua R. Jacobson, in his standard word <em>Chanting the Hebrew Bible,</em>
    has this to say about <em>maqaf:</em> \u2018A verse that contains too many accented
    syllables has a \u201Cchoppy\u201D rhythm. One solution for this problem was to
    join two or more short words together with <em>makkef,</em> a sign resembling
    a hyphen. The resulting compound word has only one accented syllable.\u2019 He
    goes on to give some examples of using <em>maqaf</em> to avoid accents on consecutive
    syllables and of proclitic and enclitic words.\r\n\r\nSo yes, <em>maqaf</em> does
    have a role in the melodic interpretation of chanted text, but perhaps not in
    the way you imagined. When we talk about musical notation, most often we have
    something like that of the evolved western European tradition, a system indicating
    particular pitch and duration, in Jewish liturgical chant the accent marks \u2014
    <em>te\u2018amim,</em> sometimes called cantillation marks \u2014 indicate melodic
    tropes of relative pitch and, to further complicate matters, the actual melodic
    trope associated with a mark will vary according to the day (e.g. regular shabbat
    vs high holy day) and also across different traditions. So, for example, following
    the same text with the same accentuation, an Ashkenazic cantor on a high holy
    day will be singing different melodies from a Sephardic cantor at a typical shabbat
    service. I would call the accent marks musical mnemonics rather than musical notation.
    The cantor has to learn the melodic tropes and how to apply them to text, he doesn't
    \u2018sight read\u2019 the accented text in the way that a musician can follow
    modern western musical notation, knowing the pitch and duration from the notes
    on the page.\r\n\r\nThe Byzantine and Latin chant traditions also use relative
    rather than fixed pitch, and historically one can trace notation from something
    similar to Hebrew accentuation, i.e. marks directly applied to the text indicating
    melodic tropes, to separate notation on a staff that is the precursor of the modern
    system.\r\n\r\nThe closest parallel to the Jewish model of melodic interpretation
    of marks in the Christian tradition may be prose chant, as used for instance to
    sing the prose readings during Mass or Divine Office. In this, punctuation marks
    are interpreted melodically: typically : and . will each indicate a short melodic
    cadence to be applied to the preceding syllable(s), and there will be a longer
    final cadence on the last syllables of the passage, which is otherwise sung <em>recto
    tono.</em> As with Jewish chant, the priest or lector has to know the melody of
    the cadences and how to apply them to the text, rather than following a musical
    notation."
  created: '2010-08-14 22:44:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">texts were read aloud because the general population was largely illiterate.\r\n\r\nThis
    isn't correct. Among Jews, there was universal education for boys by the second
    century, so the vast majority of Jewish men were literate. There are a bunch of
    other reasons for reading aloud, including ritual reasons, the expense of manuscripts,
    the displacement of Hebrew as a spoken language, etc.  "
  created: '2010-08-15 03:50:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Rich, in the classical period all reading was aloud. Silent reading is a relatively
    late development.
  created: '2010-08-15 07:28:29'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n<em>The cantor has to learn the melodic tropes and how to apply
    them to text, he doesn't \u2018sight read\u2019 the accented text in the way that
    a musician can follow modern western musical notation, knowing the pitch and duration
    from the notes on the page.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, I didn't mean \"notes\" or \"pitch\"
    I meant phrasing and accentuation.\r\nExactly.\r\nWhich group of words get sung
    in one breath, that kind of thing.\r\nThere are very precise equivalents in musical
    notation for that, too, of course.\r\n\r\n@william berkson\r\n\r\nActually, in
    my head I *was* excluding Jews when I wrote that. Literacy was always presented
    to me as a religious requirement - growing out of the story of Joseph in Egypt.\r\nHowever,
    literacy in what language? Hebrew was already dead by 600 BC. My understanding
    is that, as far as ancient texts, scholars were always needed. And support for
    them by the larger community was considered, likewise, a religious obligation.\r\n\r\nEnglish
    prof Richard Lanham - author of Revising Prose, a good book - believes that electronic
    text is, in many respects, a return to the oral style. I believe he's correct.
    The Official Style that emanates from government buracracies, corporate boardrooms,
    and (sorry Bill, but it's largely true) academia is stupid enough in print but
    onscreen, happily, it just comes off as ridiculous. Click.\r\n(But I'm getting
    far afield, thanks for the feedback all. I have an article I'm being pushed to
    finish but I'm making a note to double back and edit that Wikipedia entry. It's
    misleading, really.)\r\n\r\nAny more input, hey, we can keep going... but I gotta
    get ready for Typecon. Flying tomorrow.\r\n\r\nGreat stuff. Thanks again, Rich"
  created: '2010-08-16 13:22:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Hebrew was already dead by 600 BC.\r\n\r\nThat is not now the accepted view
    among scholars. As the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_language#Displacement|wikipedia
    article on Hebrew]] explains, that old hypothesis was refuted by the Dead Sea
    scrolls. The general view now is that Hebrew as a living language lasted into
    the second century CE. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-16 17:54:38'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\n\r\n> that the end of line hyphen was important as a visual
    cue to the reader saying, \r\n> \"hey, there's more of the word (or phrase) coming
    up on the next line.\"\r\n\r\nWhat about makaf between two words that are written
    \ in the middle of the line/pagraph? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nIf you read the Talmud you'll
    find guidelines that are very similar to modern day typography, typesetting etc
    etc. For example, it is mentioned about the spacing, kerning, line length.For
    example, line length would not exceed three times the word \u05DC\u05DE\u05E9\u05E4\u05D7\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05DB\u05DD
    (to your families) because with longer lines the reader might lose the lines;
    even Rashi in his commentary wrote about that issue (line length) !\r\n\r\n\r\nAgain,
    things were developed in stages. Though we don't have any document that states
    these developments there are several cues that show that musical function was
    developed later on. Early Babylonian MSS have ta'amim  above words that don't
    bear the accented syllable. That said, their main goal was the division of the
    verse.  In a later stage the ta'amim appear above the accented words.\r\nThe Tiberian
    system improved itself by adding more ta'amim, for example meshrtim (servants)
    which indicates that their functions are  more musical. Probably at the beginning
    the reading was   emphasizing the intonation,  recitation (diklum) and the distance
    between intonation and melody/musical was not too far apart. And probably along
    the way came the maqaf (which has a grammar & musical role). \r\nActually the
    maqaf is not that important. Because if you have a word without ta'am it is basically
    supposed to be read as if  there is a maqaf. \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-19 17:19:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Given the evidence of the New Testament, and, for that matter, the use of
    Aramaic (often called \"Chaldaean\" in that context) even in parts of the Old
    Testament, I'd be inclined to suspect that the evidence of the Dead Sea Scrolls
    is enough to support a conclusion that Hebrew continued to exist as a <strong>literary</strong>
    language for a significant period of time - after all, knowledge of the Hebrew
    language was treated as a universal religious obligation by the Jews, the <em>bar
    mitzvah</em> continuing to the present, and having existed long before the revival
    of Hebrew by Ben-Yehuda - but not enough to conclude that it was a spoken language
    used in daily life right up until 200 A.D..\r\n\r\nBut I'll have to admit that
    we don't really know, and the Wikipedia article does note that the issue is still
    very controversial among scholars - it hasn't really reached a settled consensus."
  created: '2010-08-19 22:34:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John (Quadribloc) evidence is not just religious texts. It is letters from
    Bar Kochba, who led the rebellion in 135 CE and are written in Mishnaic Hebrew.
    The Encyclopedia Judaica article \"Hebrew\" takes this as pretty conclusive evidence
    of spoken Hebrew being alive at this time, and refuting the early view of Geiger
    that Mishnaic Hebrew was an artificial construction based on Aramaic and Biblical
    Hebrew. \r\n\r\nThere is also a story in the Talmud of Yehudah haNasi (c. 200
    CE), in the Galilee, asking his maid about the meaning of a Hebrew word\u2014indicating
    that its use was dying out, but some people had still grown up with it, probably
    in Judea.\r\n\r\nThat some people spoke Hebrew in the second century is I think
    generally accepted. The \"hot debate\" according to the Wikipedia article is what
    exactly was the mix of Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, and where exactly these were
    spoken.   "
  created: '2010-08-19 22:57:03'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Concerning the use of Hebrew as a spoken language, here is a citation from
    Yosef Ofer, <em>The History and Authority of the Alleppo Codex</em> (<a href=\"http://www.jerusalem-crown.co.il/website/files/images/4-eng25.pdf\"><strong>pdf
    182K</strong></a>):\r\n\r\nYet another source provides surprising information
    about the use of Hebrew by the people of Tiberias. In the tenth century a Hebrew
    grammarian of the city wrote a work that has been preserved in part in the Cairo
    Genizah. He relates that he studied the accent of the people of Tiberias, especially
    their way of pronouncing the letter resh when reading the Bible and when speaking
    Hebrew. To that end he would spend long hours in the city streets and squares,
    listening to the speech of ordinary people, in Hebrew and in Aramaic (Allony 1970,
    98-101). This description, which is written in Arabic, indicates that in the tenth
    century Hebrew was actually spoken in Tiberias and was not only a literary and
    liturgical language.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe reference for Alloni is Leshonenu, 1970, 75-105,
    187-209. I can't copy paste from the pdf (and with hard to find latin diacritics
    I won't type it), so here it is in Hebrew (copy pasted):  \r\n \u05D0\u05DC\u05D5\u05E0\u05D9,
    \u05E0\u05D7\u05DE\u05D9\u05D4 \t  \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05D1\u05DF \u05D9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D6\u05D9\u05E8 \u05D5\u05D7\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E8\u05D5 \"\u05D9\u05E1\u05D5\u05D3\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05D4\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05EA\" \t  \u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05E0\u05E0\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D3 (\u05EA\u05E9\u05DC) 75-105, 187-209 \t1970\t\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-19 23:30:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Michel, that''s fascinating. It seems to strengthen the idea that
    the current system of nikkud, which is said to have been developed in Tiberias,
    in fact has roots in a continuous tradition of Hebrew speakers. I found this interesting
    as well: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiberian_Hebrew'
  created: '2010-08-20 12:07:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "DH><em>If you read the Talmud you'll find guidelines that are very similar
    to modern day typography, typesetting etc etc. For example, it is mentioned about
    the spacing, kerning, line length.For example, line length would not exceed three
    times the word \u05DC\u05DE\u05E9\u05E4\u05D7\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05DB\u05DD (to
    your families) because with longer lines the reader might lose the lines; even
    Rashi in his commentary wrote about that issue (line length) !</em>\r\n\r\nThose
    guys covered all the bases, didn't they? Hah!\r\n(BTW - I know I'm not the first
    to observe that the Talmud was, in a way, a form of one-dimensional hypertext,
    too.)\r\nThat's really interesting.\r\n\r\nInteresting, too, that Hebrew seems
    to have survived, at least in some form, within certain communities as a language
    of daily life."
  created: '2010-08-31 16:48:45'
- author:
    name: Propagandum
    picture: 124075
  body: Interesting thread. Please update the Wikipedia entry, it's embarrassing for
    scholars of scholarship.
  created: '2012-01-12 13:14:42'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Propagandum\r\n\r\nYou're right. I'm going to log into Wikipedia and propose
    a change. (Something new for me - but I've been meaning to create a page or two
    about some other things for a long time anyway.)\r\nI'll cite this thread.\r\n\r\nBTW
    - TO ALL CONCERNED\r\n\r\nI recently checked on the progress of Mathias Nater's
    <a href=\"http://code.google.com/p/hyphenator/\">Hyphenator</a> project for the
    first time since I wrote about it both here and in an article on AListApart called
    <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/articles/the-look-that-says-book/\"></em>The
    Look That Says Book</em></a> and I'm happy to report that it's matured beautifully
    since then.\r\nVery very smart work.\r\n(I really must convince Garrick Van Buren
    of <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a> to incorporate it
    in an upcoming issue of Konstellations. Konstellations deliberately avoids scripted
    solutions, generally, but for this perhaps an exception should be made.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    still going to be a long while before native Hypenation & Justification will be
    ubiquitously found in browsers. So in the meantime, it's nice to have a first-rate
    tool like Hyphenator that does the job and does it well.\r\nKudos to Mathias for
    sticking with it and working as hard as he obviously has.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nFont
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-15 19:10:44'
date: '2010-08-09 17:17:54'
title: Origin Of The Hyphen

---
