---
author:
  name: renovatio
body: "Hey everyone!\r\n\r\nI have currently been looking for Helvetica knockoffs,
  and am not entirely sure that I've come upon what I exactly need. \r\n\r\nAs we
  all know, Arial is the obvious villain in this situation. However, other than Arial,
  what type faces are a direct knockoff of Helvetica? \r\n\r\nI've got: CG Triumvirate,
  Pragmatica, Swiss 721, Nimbus Sans, Helv/MS Sans Serif, and Newhouse DT. Now, these
  are all clearly <em>influenced</em> by Helvetica, but are they also considered knockoffs?
  \r\n\r\nAlso, I was told by someone, fleetingly (hence the forgetfulness), that
  there is another typeface in existence that is also a direct knockoff of Helvetica.
  Described vaguely as having portions of Helvetica removed to create it. Anyone have
  an idea as to what it is? \r\n\r\nThanks in advance. :) "
comments:
- author:
    name: J_P_L
  body: "Akzidenz-Grotesk (the mother of helvetica)\r\nFolio\r\nMaxima\r\nUnivers
    Std\r\nParalucent"
  created: '2010-08-10 00:26:31'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Don't forget Aktiv Grotesk\r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativereview.co.uk/cr-blog/2010/july/the-helvetica-killer\r\n\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/browse/fonts/dama/aktivgrotesk/"
  created: '2010-08-10 00:37:51'
- author:
    name: renovatio
  body: Thanks so much! This really helps.
  created: '2010-08-10 01:28:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Here''s one you missed... Neue Helvetica '
  created: '2010-08-10 03:46:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/ff-schmelvetica/\">Schmelvetica</a>\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-10 04:08:02'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Shatter is derived directly from Helvetica.
  created: '2010-08-10 04:22:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: ' [[http://www.gnu.org/software/freefont/design-notes.html|"FreeSans is a
    proportional-width typeface with uniform stroke, descending from URW++ Nimbus
    Sans L, which in turn descends from Helvetica."]]'
  created: '2010-08-10 04:33:09'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "I wouldn't call it a knockoff, but how about Haas Unica? \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18387"
  created: '2010-08-10 05:28:09'
- author:
    name: David Sudweeks
    picture: 112594
  body: "There's a free font by the name Alte Haas Grotesk that mimics very well Helvetica
    under duress of soft-focus photocomposition.\r\n\r\nAlso Christian Schwartz details
    the completion of the custom <a href=\"http://www.christianschwartz.com/haasgrotesk.shtml\">Neue
    Haas Grotesk</a> on his site, <em>commissioned in 2004 by Mark Porter at The Guardian;
    Completed in 2010 for Richard Turley at Bloomberg Businessweek</em>. This design
    attempts to answer the question <em>\u201C... but what was Helvetica really like?\u201D</em>"
  created: '2010-08-10 06:53:54'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: ">> Akzidenz-Grotesk (the mother of helvetica), Folio, Maxima, Univers Std,
    Paralucent\r\n\r\nCalling Akzidenz-Grotesk the mother and a knock-off at the same
    time is interesting. It was in the form of \xBBSerie 57\xAB and later AG Buch
    though, but then you'd want to include Monotype Grotesk also and others who issued
    alternative letters for their typefaces to make the feel more Helvetica after
    it's huge success, f.e. Norma and Linea.\r\nUnivers and Folio were issued at the
    same time in 1957 (Univers developed since 1952), so it's hard to call then knock-off's.
    As I wouldn't call a further developement of the same typeface like Neue Helvetica.\r\n\r\nBut
    there are Aristocrat, Claro, Corvus, Geneva 2, Hamilton, HE, Helios & Helios II,
    Helv, Helvestar, Helvette, Newton, Nimbus Sans, Megaron, Sans, Spectra, Swiss
    721, Switzerland, Vega and Video Spectra. \r\n\r\nMaybe the book [[http://www.lars-mueller-publishers.com/en/catalogue-design#helvetica-forever|Helvetica
    forever]] is an interesting read for you."
  created: '2010-08-10 07:46:39'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "These seem 'Helvetian' to me:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/pragmatica/\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/pragmatica/"
  created: '2010-08-10 09:30:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...and others who issued alternative letters for their typefaces to make
    the feel more Helvetica after its huge success...</em>\r\n\r\n Aren't you just
    pumping the myth (like <em>Helvetica Forever</em>)?\r\n\r\nThere was a technological
    sea-change in typesetting at the time, as there frequently is, driven by changes
    in technology and business practice. If a foundry had a grot, and they all did,
    they reworked it. Cleaning up one's catalog for multiple-device setting -- including
    the most demanding and non-size-specific, typositor reel -- is something foundries
    were duty-bound to, not because they were aping Helvetica. AG was a prime candidate,
    being so very inconsistent between metal sizes. \r\n\r\nSabon was a cleaned-up,
    multi-device Garamond, and illustrative of this process, and certainly not a Helvetica
    me-too.\r\n\r\nHelvetica was still a hodge-podge of metal idiosyncracies between
    styles (note the spur of \"a\" at different weights) compared to The System demonstrated
    by Univers, which was the iconic and intellectual centre of the movement.\r\n\r\nAnother
    driving force was the role of the International Style in modernist corporate identities,
    with design systems which demanded smoothly variable plastic qualities of a typeface,
    making that the focus of attention.\r\n\r\nAvant Garde may be considered a simplified
    Futura, removing its style inconsistencies (e.g. pointy apexes in lighter weights,
    different \"C\" form in condensed styles, curve distortions of extra bold weights)."
  created: '2010-08-10 16:02:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Anyone know why the idiosyncrasies were continued in Neue Helvetica? Christian
    Schwartz also kept the same spur/spurless 'a' formula for his reworking.
  created: '2010-08-10 23:57:05'
- author:
    name: MackG99
  body: "coolvetica is one http://www.dafont.com/coolvetica.font     ... sorta \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-11 01:09:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: I saw a swash version of Helvetica once, but I can't seem to find is anymore.
    Anyone?
  created: '2010-08-11 01:34:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>why the idiosyncrasies were continued in Neue Helvetica?</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    wouldn't be Helvetica without them, it would be Haas Unica, which didn't fly.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-11 05:23:43'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "\u201CIf a foundry had a grot, and they all did, they reworked it. Cleaning
    up one's catalog for multiple-device setting -- including the most demanding and
    non-size-specific, typositor reel -- is something foundries were duty-bound to,
    not because they were aping Helvetica.\u201D\r\n\r\nI'd tend to agree if Berthold
    or Monotype had just reworked the weight, spacing and x-height. These were adapted
    to the current taste (corporate needs or the international Style). But why change
    the design of R, G and a which formerly were the key differences?"
  created: '2010-08-11 07:42:00'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: 'Christopher, scroll drown a bit: http://typographica.org/2004/on-typography/interview-phil-martin/'
  created: '2010-08-11 07:46:18'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>It wouldn't be Helvetica without them, it would be Haas Unica, which
    didn't fly.</em>\r\n\r\nThey did remove the chipped flare on the 'a' and 'R' though.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nI'm
    inclined to agree with Indra. Although <em>Helvetica Forever</em> maybe pumping
    the idea absolutely, it seems unlikely that several foundries would import horizontal
    terminals akin to Helvetica, which previously weren't a feature of the family
    in any weight, as a matter of tidying up optical sizes. Surely this is a matter
    of emulation?\r\n\r\nSpeaking of horizontal terminals, anyone know anything about
    the version of Helvetica that has ever so slightly angled terminals?"
  created: '2010-08-11 10:44:33'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "At least when it comes to the wish of their designers Helvetica was never
    supposed to have angled terminals\u2014how slightly they might have turned out.
    \r\n\r\nAnd I still don't quite understand why you think Helvetica Forever \u201Cis
    pumping the myth\u201D here. The source for my research was mostly Alfred Hoffmann,
    maybe in your opinion not the most un-biased person? But at least the material
    I got left no doubt for statements like these.     "
  created: '2010-08-11 14:00:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...it seems unlikely that several foundries would import horizontal terminals...</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    typefaces are we talking about?\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk had horizontal terminals in
    some sizes, prior to Helvetica.\r\nBut again, if one were to pick out a face as
    model for this feature, surely it would be Univers.\r\n\r\n<em>I still don't quite
    understand why you think Helvetica Forever \u201Cis pumping the myth\u201D here.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    follows the \"great man\" approach to history, which mythologizes famous people
    (or fonts) as the agents of change, rather than examining the interplay of technology
    and society, which accords individual agents less importance.\r\n\r\nSo the book
    is named \"Helvetica Forever,\" rather than \"Grotesque Forever,\" simultaneously
    cashing in on the myth, and reinforcing it. Such is the feedback loop by which
    myths thrive.\r\n\r\nAnother element of myth-making is the marginalization of
    secondary players.\r\nWith the Helvetica myth, its relationship with the grotesque
    continuum is minimalized, hence its knocking-off from Akzidenz Grotesk is downplayed.
    This involves eulogizing Helvetica's color, spacing and refinement as the key
    qualities of Helvetica's design and success, which is no doubt correct, but does
    that really constitute enough design to be considered an original typeface? perhaps
    then, but shouldn't we know better now?\r\n\r\nExcuse me while I get back to working
    on my latest typeface, Gotham with the terminals straightened out, to be named
    Cabotia."
  created: '2010-08-11 16:18:02'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "<em>Excuse me while I get back to working on my latest typeface, Gotham with
    the terminals straightened out, to be named Cabotia.</em>\r\n\r\nGotham, another
    knockoff in itself. :)"
  created: '2010-08-11 16:55:33'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "There are, I think, two other typefaces included in the appendix to Indra's
    book showing replacement characters. Unfortunately I do not have my copy to hand
    but I'm sure Indra can fill in the blanks. The point is that it is not just AG
    that received similar changes.\r\n\r\n\u2014\r\n\r\nI disagree that the Helvetica
    process was 'knocking off' and or that it is downplayed by Helvetica Forever.
    The whole published document shows a continued comparison to AG, there are no
    attempts to hide these comparisons in this book at least. This is perhaps a myth
    that you are pumping! I sympathise with the great man idea of history and the
    title, Helvetica Forever, does lend itself that way, but the actual content continually
    refers back to AG. It is easy to celebrate Univers independence as a project,
    and rightly so, but I don't find that this degrades Helvetica, nor Haas Unica
    for the same reason. For me this celebrates the split-hair nature of the task
    and makes me less cynical, not more.\r\n\r\nNick, I believe you have taken on
    challenges before, after a Typophile thread, which resulted in the drawing of
    a font? I challenge you to take AG's 'e' and 's' and manually change them with
    pen, paper, paint or appropriate historical technique, to those of Helvetica.
    According to your own assessment it should not take too much time away from your
    much simpler project, the digital Cabotia :-)"
  created: '2010-08-11 17:33:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>This is perhaps a myth that you are pumping!</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I've only
    glanced at the book, so perhaps I should shut up about it.\r\n\r\n<em>I challenge
    you to take AG's 'e' and 's' and manually change them with pen, paper, paint or
    appropriate historical technique, to those of Helvetica</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not
    really necessary, as there were certain sizes of AG which already had those features:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helv_3675.png]"
  created: '2010-08-11 18:25:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here is another scan from the 1954 Berthold specimen, the bottom setting
    below, which I have duplicated above digitally, with a Helvetica font, with no
    letterspacing adjustments.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/berthold_accidenz2_5097_3714.jpg]"
  created: '2010-08-11 18:33:29'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Andrew, do you mean Record-Gothic and Monotype-Groteque? Those got alternative
    characters in the Swiss style (to avoid the \xBBgreat man\xAB fairytale) in 1961,
    Forma and Linea in 1966 while the major redesign of Akzidenz-Grotesk by GGL I
    was referring to was issued in 1969.\r\n\r\nNew characters of Monotype Grotesque:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Monogrot_4306.jpg]\r\n\r\nRecord
    Gothic as reissued in 1961:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RecordGothic_3583.png]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    Buch from 1969 (above) and Old Style (below):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Agvergl_3464.jpg]\r\n\r\nWe
    never downplayed the \xBBknocking-off\xAB from Akzidenz-Grotesk (or rather the
    wishful mimicing of its sucess) anywhere in the book. It was prominently mentioned
    as a key source right in the first paragraph of the essay, page 21 (unfortunately
    I only have the German version at hand) and I explained her role in detail again
    in the captions to Hoffmann's sketch book reprint as well as in the later chapters.
    Nonetheless\u2014Breite Halbfette Grotesk, respectively Franz\xF6sische Grotesk
    and Normal Grotesk were just as influencial."
  created: '2010-08-11 18:42:52'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Indra those are indeed the amended typefaces that I was referencing from
    your book, thanks.\r\n\r\nNick, I confess I hadn't seen the versions of AG other
    than Series 57 that featured horizontal terminals throughout, so thanks for taking
    the time to upload. That aside, I still think the challenge to take the version
    of AG examined in <em>Helvetica Forever</em>, to Helvetica itself, would be fairly
    intense, especially with the available technology. That is what the design record
    at the centre of the book charts over many drawings and reflections. Even if these
    are within a finite ballpark, they are quite searching. Unsurprisingly there are
    plenty of exacting comparisons between the two faces, much like the one you have
    created!\r\n\r\nI have a feeling it is in a type designer's interest to reserve
    the terms 'knock off' for faces containing the exact same information, passed
    off under different names, than to describe the story of Helvetica, Haas Unica
    or other review based work."
  created: '2010-08-11 20:25:37'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "We've gone a bit over my head at this point, but I'll throw this into the
    ring. Not certain I'd call New Rail Alphabet a knock off either, but a rethinking???
    Regardless, it's a damn handsome typeface.\r\nhttp://www.newrailalphabet.co.uk/"
  created: '2010-08-11 20:26:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I have a feeling it is in a type designer's interest to reserve the terms
    'knock off' for faces containing the exact same information, passed off under
    different names, than to describe the story of Helvetica, Haas Unica or other
    review based work.</em>\r\n\r\nSo if someone were to take Gotham, make the x-height
    a bit smaller, straighten up the terminals, and rename it, that wouldn't be a
    knock-off, but legitimate \"review based work\"?"
  created: '2010-08-11 21:03:21'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Apply only those processes to the AG and you won't have Helvetica.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason I advise caution bandying the term 'knock-off' around and suggest it is
    in your interest not to cry wolf on the issue is so that people take note when
    someone does manipulate your font in such a manner.\r\n\r\nAs for Gotham \u2013
    it is celebrated because it delivers a very smooth version of a flavour we all
    know.\r\n\r\nI quote from H&FJ site: Gotham is that rarest of designs, the new
    typeface that somehow feels familiar."
  created: '2010-08-11 22:13:14'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "<em>So if someone were to take Gotham, make the x-height a bit smaller, straighten
    up the terminals, and rename it, that wouldn't be a knock-off, but legitimate
    \"review based work\"?</>\r\n\r\nno, I would think that would be a direct violation
    of copyright laws and illegal and punishable by law. :)\r\n\r\n\r\nand i think
    a \"knockoff\" is more of an obvious optical similarity or too similar idea to
    another contemporary design, isn't it?"
  created: '2010-08-11 22:15:56'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: 'Corey, I''m happy to see New Rail Alphabet, and Aktiv and all the rest. Less
    interested in the sales pitch on the latter, negativity is a bit uninspiring!
    I was stuck in hospital (United Kingdom) recently and was surprised to see some
    old signage still using the original Rail design. I was able to identify it from
    only four letters: B, a, t and h.'
  created: '2010-08-11 22:35:20'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: It's hard not to veer too close Helvetica/AG/Arial because they're balanced,
    conventional and expressionless. <a href="http://www.typodermic.com/221.html">GGX88</a>
    was designed as text companion to Avant Garde Gothic headings for a set-top box
    display system. Designing a balanced, somewhat modular sans serif font with a
    large x-height, not much expression and conventional shapes can bring you really
    close to Helvetica unless consciously taking measures to avoid it. In the case
    of  GGX88, my client was interested in sharing some of the characteristics of
    Avant Garde Gothic while remaining conventional & neutral.
  created: '2010-08-14 08:34:43'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: 'Like Ray Larabie said: "If you work on a font long enough it will turn into
    Helvetica." ;-)'
  created: '2010-08-15 07:32:12'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: '1985: there''s info about the kinnear and calvert NHS signage in an article
    in one of the C20 society journals--PM me for more info if interested.'
  created: '2010-08-16 19:11:24'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "so it took me three months to come up with this third-rate photo...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P1020612_6356.JPG]"
  created: '2010-11-06 00:46:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I suppose that Max Miedinger's Neue Haas Grotesk, now known as Helvetica,
    can be considered to be somewhat illegitimately derived from Berthold's Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    given that Haas hadn't acquired Berthold at that time or anything like that.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    while it did use Akzidenz-Grotesk as a source of inspiration, while that face
    brought some new things to sans-serif faces, it was still not that attractive
    or inspiring. It was just another sans-serif face in a crowded field.\r\n\r\nHelvetica,
    on the other hand, was beautiful and magical. That's what makes me come down firmly
    on the side of viewing it as a new creation, not plagiarism. There are many, many
    typefaces out there - but their existence can't be allowed to prevent the creation
    of new typefaces, even if almost any new typeface, unless it's a very weird-looking
    display face, is going to look close to something else out there. Subtleties are
    not trifles in typography."
  created: '2010-11-07 18:21:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I suppose that Max Miedinger's Neue Haas Grotesk, now known as Helvetica,
    can be considered to be somewhat illegitimately derived from Berthold's Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    given that Haas hadn't acquired Berthold at that time or anything like that.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    notion that Heveltica is somehow a plagiarism of the brilliant Akzidenz Grotesk
    is a load of rubbish that needs to be hauled off to a landfill. Akzidenz Grotesk
    was not some work of pure genius that sprang up in 1890s Germany; its design was
    no more original than Helvetica was. Akzidenz was a collection of similar grots
    that were derivatives of older grots that were also derivatives of older grots.
    A Cincinnati Type Foundry specimen from the 1860s at Butler Library shows a font
    that\u2019s a dead ringer for the regular weight of Akzidenz and I doubt that
    one was especially original. We need to avoid creating sloppy narratives that
    try to show type design as a string of genius moments and ripoffs and accept it
    for the slow, deliberate, and derivative process that it usually is."
  created: '2010-11-07 18:32:26'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Geraint, better late than never!\r\n\r\nJames: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-11706476"
  created: '2010-11-08 12:19:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, in searching for information about Haas Unica, I found that
    this face is currently unavailable because of a dispute between two companies
    about which one inherited the rights to it from Haas.\r\n\r\nFrom an aesthetic
    viewpoint, it seems to me that indeed it moves away from Helvetica to Univers
    or Akzidenz-Grotesk, but its lack of success can't be used as evidence of any
    failings in the face itself, as it is its circumstances that have precluded success."
  created: '2010-11-08 21:16:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Also, my web searches turned up another face similar to Helvetica. Like the
    Romain du Roi, this one was presumably developed to protect against forgery -
    in this case of signage. The Rail Alphabet, used by British Rail.
  created: '2010-11-08 22:50:37'
- author:
    name: type addict
    picture: 121131
  body: "Haas Unica, combining the design characteristics of UNivers and HelvetICA.\r\nA
    really great knockoff by Team 77, Andr\xE9 Gurtler, Erich Gschwind and Christian
    Mengelt.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Haas Unica grab_3978.JPG]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid
    Berlow's Titling Gothic FB is nice.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Titling
    Gothic FB grab_5973.JPG]"
  created: '2010-11-10 03:53:10'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: 'quadibloc: the kinneir/calvert team were behind that one also, IIRC. they
    branded British Rail, the NHS, the motorways, a big chunk of the welfare state.'
  created: '2010-11-10 09:16:16'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>David Berlow's Titling Gothic FB is nice</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain with the
    lazy history."
  created: '2010-11-10 14:31:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Here's the Gothic (some other weights are also present) from the Cincinnati
    type specimen for 1870. Akzidenz Grotesk it isn't, although it has some interesting
    properties:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cin70_5312.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    clearly is humanistic rather than geometric, and it isn't horribly ugly like many
    of the older grotesques, so it could indeed be categorized as a neo-grotesque.
    But it's not clear to me that this is actually all that far ahead of its time,
    as Franklin Gothic already existed back then.\r\n\r\nNote how capital C and capital
    U, for example, have varying stroke widths. That's definitely not Akzidenz, but
    it is very interesting.\r\n\r\nNow, the light weight may look a bit more like
    Akzidenz, but then the basic letter forms have been around for a long time in
    handprint...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cin_ligh_5700.jpg]\r\n\r\nFor
    comparison...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/akzid_3544.jpg]"
  created: '2014-07-28 22:04:13'
- author:
    name: Vinchenzo
    picture: 127608
  body: Arial - the font designed, made and commissioned so that Microsoft could have
    a slice of Helvetica.
  created: '2014-08-13 23:15:22'
date: '2010-08-09 23:32:20'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica knockoffs

---
