---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Here's a question, prompted by the TypeCon web fonts \"monster\" panel (expertly
  moderated by Bryan Mason). \r\n\r\nWill commercial font licenses that allow for
  user conversion of desktop fonts into [[WOFF]] fonts add to web font licensing confusion?\r\n\r\nWould
  it be less confusing if all commercial font producers opt for a no conversion policy,
  and make the WOFFs themselves?\r\n\r\nThanks, Si\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Spontaneous reaction: \r\n\r\n<cite>Would it be less confusing if all commercial
    font producers opt for a no conversion policy, and make the WOFFs themselves?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nBut
    then ... what about a Win-to-Mac-and-back application conversion tool a la TransType?
    No need for application developers to ship two or more versions. All power to
    the end user. :)"
  created: '2010-08-23 21:36:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think we should force font producers to disallow <em>any</em> user
    action carried out on their own products (including such conversion). We can't
    predict the reasons producers will have to allow/disallow whatever they might
    see fit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-24 00:13:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Will commercial font licenses that allow for user conversion\r\n>of desktop
    fonts into WOFF fonts add to web font\r\n>licensing confusion?\r\n\r\nYou mean
    it can get even more confusing than it already is? Seems like the question is
    off the mark.\r\nWhy are you stopping at WOFF? Today, and for quite some time
    to come, having just a WOFF file doesn't do squat.\r\nHow about EOT? How about
    SVG which authors need for mobile Safari on iPhone and iPad?\r\n\r\nBetter yet,
    come see my talk at ATYPI: <em>Destination Web</em> to get the scoop on the advantages
    and disadvantage of all these formats."
  created: '2010-08-24 05:41:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This was a question about font licenses. It assumes that WOFF will replace
    all of the formats you mention. If by some reason it doesn't you can replace (or
    add to) WOFF with SVG, EOT, FINK, HEF or whatever becomes the dominant format.
    \ \r\n\r\nYes font licenses are confusing, however standardized language (as you
    see with PDF - mostly) can be helpful. \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-24 05:47:13'
- author:
    name: Ivo
    picture: 128123
  body: "As far as I know by far the most foundries already have a no conversion policy
    for all formats other than the delivered one, don\u2019t they?"
  created: '2010-08-24 15:50:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Mostly, but there are some notable exceptions - eg. Adobe. I also think that
    customers may expect this to be covered in embedding or redistribution sections
    of the EULA.
  created: '2010-08-24 16:29:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-08-24 16:30:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Since the purpose of woff is to be converted to a desktop format, I think
    it's a trick question.\r\n\r\nSince the purpose of the panel was to explain woff
    to the public, I guess  it was a trick panel.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-08-24 18:20:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "We should avoid the term \u2018conversion\u2019 when talking about creating
    WOFF files. WOFF is not a font format, it is a font delivery format. The SFNT
    font data content of a WOFF file is 100% identical to the un-WOFF'd font: there
    is no conversion of that data taking place, only compression and wrapping.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think it will be possible to get all foundries to formally agree on a single
    policy with regard to whether to permit WOFF creation by customers, any more than
    it has been possible to get them all to agree on a common EULA. One can certainly
    point out to foundries that permitting customers to create their own WOFF files
    from licensed desktop fonts sort of means not taking advantage of one of the features
    of WOFF, which is the ability to include web specific and customer specific metadata
    in the WOFF'd font. If you allow end users to create their own WOFF files, those
    files are indistinguishable on the web from illegitimately created WOFF files
    from existing desktop fonts. Since one of the main ideas behind WOFF was to draw
    a line, at the delivery format level, between new web licensed fonts and existing
    desktop licensed fonts, surrendering control of the WOFF metadata to customers
    undermines this.\r\n\r\nSmart foundries will be serialising their WOFF files,
    matching fonts to customers and to licensed domains. Very smart foundries will
    be inserting serialisation information and whatever recommendations or other metadata
    into the font prior to WOFFing. A smart WOFF creation tool for foundries will
    automatically perform these steps, e.g. using data from a customer database, as
    part of creating a WOFF file for delivery to or serving on behalf of a customer:
    insert license specific data into name table and add any custom tables to font;
    digitally sign font; create WOFF file."
  created: '2010-08-24 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Might have been answered already, but are there any audio/video/transcripts
    of the presentation from Typecon?
  created: '2010-08-24 21:13:54'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: It would be quite nice if a select couple talks were made available on the
    TypeCon website after the event to serve for posterity, further education and
    discourse, and as a reminder of what you miss when you don't attend TypeCon.
  created: '2010-08-25 02:15:37'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: My <a href="http://www.typodermic.com/license.html">EULA</a> allows for conversions/embedding/linking
    with WOFF, @font-face, EOT, EOT Lite, Cufon, sIFR, FLIR. I didn't attend TypeCon.
    Please explain how forbidding WOFF conversion is better for my customers. If it
    makes customers confused about other EULAs, I'm definitely going to do it!
  created: '2010-08-25 08:54:15'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "<em>WOFF is not a font format, it is a font delivery format. The SFNT font
    data content of a WOFF file is 100% identical to the un-WOFF'd font: there is
    no conversion of that data taking place, only compression and wrapping.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is what makes WOFF a different animal, and generally friendly toward flexible
    licensing. We've just updated the [[http://scripts.sil.org/OFL-FAQ_web|SIL Open
    Font License FAQ]] to clarify many things, including in which circumstances WOFFing
    a font is allowed without triggering a required name change.\r\n\r\nI do, however,
    agree that it's best for everyone if foundries would provide WOFF versions of
    their fonts, and be clear about their licensing. So although our fonts are licensed
    with the OFL, and could be WOFFed by users, we're still scrambling to create canonical
    WOFF versions."
  created: '2010-08-25 09:23:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bimp. \r\n\r\nWell, it\u2019s time to move on to a third bunch of typotech
    ninnies, but I wanted to briefly summarize:\r\n\r\nFirst we blasted through the
    hogshead of flaming BS surrounding ClearType and the ClearType collection, eventually
    getting an admission that CT is not the revolution in screen reading users were
    looking for.  <em>It\u2019s just patented to look that way.</em> :o\r\n \r\nThen
    about ten days ago, though none here or at TypeCon commented, The W3C published
    an admission that <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/Fonts/WOFF-FAQ\">WOFF brings absolutely
    no benefits</a> to end users, web developers or font developers <em> that are
    not already benefits of the \"raw\" fonts WOFF wraps.</em> See, \"What are the
    benefits of using WOFF?\"</em>:o\r\n\r\nAnd now \u2014 on to the next stop in
    the Berlow, <a href=\"http://marcocarag.com/2010/08/23/css-transparency-and-overlapping-glyphs/\">type
    technology comedy tour</a>. \r\n"
  created: '2010-09-01 12:48:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Two Berlows go into a bar, the first one says to the bartender, \"I don't
    know what to have, beer or a martini.\" The second brother says, \"I'll have a
    bottle of Ibis in a plain brown wrapper.\" The first brother repeats, \"I just
    can't decide!\" Then Brett Favre, who has been waiting an eternity for the bartender,
    walks over to the pair and says, \"Would you two stop woffling!\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-09-01 13:27:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "FAQ's tend to develop over time, and I'm sure with your input the working
    group can update the answer to that question to include advantages over raw fonts
    such as the metadata, compression and most importantly foundry support for the
    standard.\r\n\r\n>And now \u2014 on to the next stop in the Berlow, type technology
    comedy tour.\r\n\r\nWell you could skip the tour and review your own FAQ... http://www.webtype.com/info/help/
    which doesn't currently include a question on the \"benefit\" of your service,
    compared to say the other ten web font services out there. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-01 14:46:02'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>The W3C published an admission that WOFF brings absolutely no benefits
    ... that are not already benefits of the \"raw\" fonts WOFF wraps.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree that this section is strange, because it seems to be highlighting general
    benefits of web fonts, not WOFF specifically. However, the real benefit (expected,
    but not yet realized today) is implied earlier in the article:\r\n\r\n\"Until
    now, downloadable fonts have not been common on the Web due to the lack of an
    interoperable font format.\"\r\n\r\nThe primary benefit of WOFF is (will be) browser
    interoperability. Secondary benefits -- harder for developers and end users to
    grasp because they are more abstract -- are font protection and the increased
    number of choices that that security is expected to bring."
  created: '2010-09-01 16:50:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Agree the question is comparing real fonts to images and Flash. But TTF is
    more interoperable than WOFF (and likely will be for quite a while). Also "security"
    implies WOFF is secure, which it isn''t. '
  created: '2010-09-01 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>But TTF is more interoperable than WOFF (and likely will be for quite
    a while).</cite>\r\n\r\nHuh? When WOFF is supported by all new browsers (does
    anyone not expect this soon?), will it be less interoperable than raw fonts, which
    won't be supported in any version of IE?"
  created: '2010-09-01 18:49:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii>...which doesn't currently include a question on the \"benefit\" of your
    service, compared to say the other ten web font services out there. ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    think the benefit or our service is obvious, which also has nothing to do with
    WOFF. I also think the WG has all the help it needs with frequently asked questions,
    and there are, as far as I remain concerned, no benefits to be found from WOFF
    that are not benefits of what she wraps. Metadata belongs in the format, not the
    wrapper, compression by subsetting is the only good compression and it is format
    independent, and most importantly foundry support for WOFF is meaningless compared
    to OS and app support of TT/OpenType. \r\n\r\nSii> But TTF is more interoperable
    than WOFF (and likely will be for quite a while).\r\n\r\nYes I saw that was going
    to be the case a year ago and IE9 confirmed it for us all, (theoretically). \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-01 20:11:26'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: The only benefit I see for WOFF over plain TTF/OTF is the compression, it
    might not matter much for small fonts, though.
  created: '2010-09-01 20:34:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. compression: as Tal reported during TypeCon, based on a testing of a
    few hundred fonts the average compression in WOFF = 47%.\r\n\r\nTo declare that
    subsetting 'is the only good compression' is begging the question and ignoring
    the fact that any subsetted font can be subsequently compressed with WOFF. Subsetting
    has various problems for font vendors, web authors and even website visitors unless
    one means by subsetting just splitting a larger font into discreet character sets
    and licensing them separately. Interactive web content makes it hard to anticipate
    what characters are actually going to need to be displayed.\r\n\r\n\r\nRe. the
    FAQ: I don't know who wrote that. It isn't something that the working group produced
    collaboratively, and I suspect it will be subject to review now that we're aware
    of its deficiencies. Thanks, David."
  created: '2010-09-01 21:28:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "KH> The only benefit I see for WOFF over plain TTF/OTF is the compression...\r\n\r\nThe
    benefit you note is just perfect for the end of the list I linked to above.\r\n\r\nJH>
    ...that subsetting 'is the only good compression' is begging the question and
    ignoring the fact that any subsetted font can be subsequently compressed with
    WOFF.\r\n\r\nCompressed <em>with</em> WOFF? WOFF is not an application. The compression
    is <em>for</em> WOFF. As such, subset or not, the compressed WOFF-bound TTF is
    smaller than a compressed and wrapped WOFF of the same font 100% of the time.
    So, an un-WOFF bound compressed TTF has the slightly better benefit over a WOFF,
    in compression terms. \r\n\r\nJH> Interactive web content makes it hard to anticipate
    what characters are actually going to need to be displayed.\r\n\r\nInteractive
    web content is hardly capable of making things hard. I think you mean something
    or someone else is screwing up subsetting. Subsetting is how to compress fonts.
    \r\n\r\nJH> I don't know who wrote that.\r\n\r\nMe neither, but maybe Lilley's
    non-existent rubber stamp approved it?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-02 13:28:45'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Subsetting is tricky for fonts needing complex layout, say Arabic. I'm pretty
    sure any subsetting to my current Arabic font will either break it or not provide
    any significant reduction in size. I don't also see how subsetting will work for
    any website wit dynamic content, unless you are subsetting on the fly for each
    page separately on each HTTP request.
  created: '2010-09-02 14:02:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...any subsetting to my current Arabic font will either break it or not
    provide any significant reduction in size.\r\n\r\nWell!  if it won't reduce <em>your
    fonts</em>, no one in the whole wide world should be able to subset any fonts
    I guess."
  created: '2010-09-02 15:01:48'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Well! if it won't reduce your fonts, no one in the whole wide world
    should be able to subset any fonts I guess.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, I mean subsetting
    is not \"how to compress fonts\", it is merely a hack to reduce font size that
    has many shortcomings, two of which are already mentioned."
  created: '2010-09-02 15:45:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">subsetting is...merely a hack to reduce font size\r\n\r\nWell then let us
    not worry about it. All web sites should be treated as dynamic, and all fonts
    as un-subsettable. "
  created: '2010-09-02 19:25:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If I have a web site thhat is only written in English, then I sure would want
    subsetting to eliminate the thousands of glyphs I would not be using on that site.
  created: '2010-09-03 01:31:37'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Well then let us not worry about it. All web sites should be treated
    as dynamic, and all fonts as un-subsettable.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell then let us not
    worry about it. All web sites should be treated as static, and all fonts as subsettable."
  created: '2010-09-03 01:56:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>As such, subset or not, the compressed WOFF-bound TTF is smaller
    than a compressed and wrapped WOFF of the same font 100% of the time. So, an un-WOFF
    bound compressed TTF has the slightly better benefit over a WOFF, in compression
    terms.</em>\r\n\r\nUh yeah. But WOFF defines a <em>standard</em> compression model
    for web served font data, in such a way that a user agent knows what to do with
    it when it downloads a woff file, unlike, say, you picking some random compression
    mechanism from the myriad available ones and using it to compress a font.\r\n\r\nThe
    single biggest benefit to WOFF is this: it is a web standard, which means that
    it comes with clearly defined conformance requirements, a test suite for implementations,
    etc. Unlike, say, the ad hoc naked font support that is, in fact, different on
    each browser that claims to support it."
  created: '2010-09-03 04:10:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>If I have a web site that is only written in English, then I sure would
    want subsetting to eliminate the thousands of glyphs I would not be using on that
    site.</cite> \r\nUntil you'll want to cite some word in Greek, for example ;-)"
  created: '2010-09-03 09:14:52'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "@ DB >>First we blasted through the hogshead of flaming BS surrounding ClearType
    and the ClearType collection, eventually getting an admission that CT is not the
    revolution in screen reading users were looking for. It\u2019s just patented to
    look that way. :o\r\n\r\nwas always curious as to what -you- would have proposed
    as ideal rendering?"
  created: '2010-09-03 12:14:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "J> The single biggest benefit to WOFF is this: it is a web standard, which
    means that it comes with clearly defined conformance requirements, a test suite
    for implementations, etc. \r\n\r\nI want to make sure you\u2019ve got this straight
    then: the benefit of the WOFF standard is, by defining and implementing compression
    and wrapper definitions as standards, everyone who embraces that standard can
    be in lock step; compressing, wrapping, decompressing and unwrapping that standard
    consistently.  (The web is great at solving unskilled problems by itself, but
    let\u2019s leave that thought for a second. )\r\n\r\nJ> [WOFF is unlike] the ad
    hoc naked font support that is, in fact, different on each browser that claims
    to support it.\r\n\r\nThis is the left ventricle of the heart of the problem John,
    the right ventricle being the tool maker(s) pretty clearly insisting that font
    designers/developers work through Type1 font technology to reach TT for the web.
    Meanwhile here in the left ventricle of the problem, we are seemingly compelled
    to do without clearly defined conformance requirements or a test suite for implementations
    <em>of the format users USE</em>. Thus, if the ad hoc \u201Cnaked font\u201D support
    you speak of is unaffected by WOFF, which by specification cannot effect the output
    appearance of the fonts in any way, WOFF pretty clearly brings is no benefit to
    users, web developers, or foundries. \r\n\r\nNow \u2014 I don\u2019t give a hoot
    for solving unskilled problems first, in order to solve skilled problems later,
    if that\u2019s the scheme \u2014 In typography, this method causes wide area bad-legacy
    issues, as should be clear? But I have been patient.\r\n\r\nSo, if someone can
    explain the benefit to the W3C, OS and browsermakers of this unskilled operation
    (naked font in to- WOFF -to naked font out), please, step forward. Is there anyone
    who will speak frankly? If you please of course. This is just a Forum, and so
    you are not compelled to speak. \r\n\r\n<em>I</em> am advocating conformance requirements
    and a test suite for implementations for TT/OT/OFF compliant fonts, (i.e. so we
    all can work skillfully on what\u2019s going to be unskillfully compressed and
    wrapped in your WOFF) & (saving the web from a WOFF standard containing an internet
    monster). And, I am advocating additional requirements and test suites for implementations
    for extensions to TT/OT/OFF compliant fonts, to account for the massive and relatively
    sudden changes to the technology of the \u201Cpress\u201D on the web.\r\n\r\nR>
    Until you'll want to cite some word in Greek, for example ;-)\r\n\r\nDo you advocate
    font servers and or users being responsible for creating each and every skilled
    subsetting of a font family themselves?\r\n\r\nOr do you advocate no subsetting
    whatsoever?"
  created: '2010-09-03 13:18:49'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Do you advocate...</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't advocate anything! ;-)\r\nI
    was just pointing out the impredictability of future needs and the problems that
    could subsequently arise.\r\nGiven this, sure, some sort of server-side smart
    subsetting would be very useful! "
  created: '2010-09-03 13:54:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Until you'll want to cite some word in Greek, for example\"\r\n\r\nyes,
    Ricardo, but then only that entry--as you say though, \"The greeks had a word
    for it.\"  ;-)"
  created: '2010-09-03 14:22:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, you're right that WOFF specifically and the W3C web fonts working
    group in general can't affect what a font looks like in terms of rendering. I
    think the working group is well positioned, however, to influence the decisions
    that browsers make about what to do with font data, through its mandate to define
    a web font conformance specification. This is unlikely to affect what fonts look
    line in terms of rendering, i.e. rasterisation, but it may well affect what they
    end up looking like when browser makers attempt to \u2018sanitize\u2019 fonts.
    Google Chrome, for instance, currently strips GSUB and GPOS tables from web fonts,
    because it perceives them as a security risk. That might not be affecting your
    fonts yet because of lack of support for CSS3 typographic features, but it affects
    how complex script fonts look, and for some of us is a major concern.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am advocating conformance requirements and a test suite for implementations for
    TT/OT/OFF compliant fonts, (i.e. so we all can work skillfully on what\u2019s
    going to be unskillfully compressed and wrapped in your WOFF) & (saving the web
    from a WOFF standard containing an internet monster). And, I am advocating additional
    requirements and test suites for implementations for extensions to TT/OT/OFF compliant
    fonts, to account for the massive and relatively sudden changes to the technology
    of the \u201Cpress\u201D on the web.</em>\r\n\r\nLaudable. And who is going to
    define these conformance requirements? And who is going to agree to recognise
    them?\r\n\r\nI think it is worthwhile to point out problems and keep them on peoples'
    radar until such time as those people -- browser makers, operating system makers,
    rendering engine makers, font format specifiers -- might start to behave as if
    they want to fix the problems. Until they start behaving that way, talk of conformance
    requirements seems to me more likely to drive them away.\r\n\r\nWOFF is happening
    because a lot of different parties with different agendas decided to try to solve
    a particular set of problems. They didn't set out to solve all the problems of
    fonts on the web, and they wouldn't have got very far if they had. Some of the
    problems that WOFF aims to solve could also have been solved within a naked font
    serving model, yes, but others could not, which is why a delivery format distinction
    was put on the table by both font developers and browser makers. I've got it that
    you disagree, David, but if we'd stuck where you are a year ago we'd still be
    arguing the toss about exposure of existing fonts that most of your colleagues
    find unacceptable. They may all be wrong and you may be right, but your being
    right wouldn't move anything forward.\r\n\r\nI've tried to ensure all along that,
    as you requested, WOFF wouldn't get in the way of the things that you want to
    do with web fonts, and it doesn't. It's a compressed delivery format for font
    data with some packaging labels stuck to it. What you put in that font data is
    up to you."
  created: '2010-09-03 20:23:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Metadata belongs in the format, not the wrapper.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    you're talking about metadata about the typeface and its use, I entirely agree,
    which is why the WOFF metadata does not include what I think of as typographic
    metadata, e.g. your \u2018recommendations\u2019. It makes much more sense for
    that to be included in the font data.\r\n\r\nA WOFF file is a package, and the
    metadata is just some labels on that package and about that package. They are
    not the instruction manual that tells you how to operate the piece of machinery
    that the package contains."
  created: '2010-09-03 20:28:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "My main concern is WOFF as a verb. I'm very wary of this development.\r\n\r\nThe
    TTFs got WOFFed. I WOFFed the fonts already. Hey, moron, WOFF the thing, willya!\r\nWhile
    I was WOFFing..."
  created: '2010-09-04 00:05:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This is so embarrassing. I thought I was asking a simple question. When I
    saw the WOFF benefits list I pointed out above, knowing I have to support this
    format publicly, as well as deal with the sticky issues Simon raised to start
    this thread, (and having read Crossland's notes on the CSS briefing), I said to
    myself: \u201CI too want to know how WOFF is <strong>addressing a real problem</strong>,
    and not just <strong>blazing ahead</strong> with a wrapper.\u201D;)\r\n\r\nMike
    B. Duggan>... was always curious as to what -you- would have proposed as ideal
    rendering?\r\n\r\nThere is no idealizable \"web reader\", so ideal rendering requires
    flexibility on readability issues, skilled design work and super care from there
    to the reader's eyes. That's all I've ever proposed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-04 17:38:42'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "\r\n>>Mike B. Duggan\r\nwhat does the B stand for? I can only imagine :_0"
  created: '2010-09-04 18:06:05'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'DB: Is full browser interoperability not a satisfactory solution? Because
    the security it so weak (I say it''s something -- just not much), interoperability
    has always been the best reason I''ve had to support it.'
  created: '2010-09-05 23:02:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">>Mike B. Duggan\r\n>>>what does the B stand for? I can only imagine :_0\r\n\r\nNo
    sorry. A murder of crows was making salsa out of my tomatoes, so I was shopping
    at \"Birds B Gone\" for netting, two tiny wires crossed, and the rest is history.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-07 21:42:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OldCrowSpeedShop_5324.jpg]'
  created: '2010-09-08 05:04:10'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: ok thanks David F Berlow :) ditto but was trying to get rid of fireflies.
  created: '2010-09-08 14:39:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "CS> interoperability has always been the best reason I've had to support
    it.\r\n\r\nWell, you better get a real reason then. ttf is the most interoperable
    font format on this particular planet. What I was beggin' for, was a person from
    the OS, Browsers or W3C to stand up like a man or woman and tell us what the use
    of a wrapper is. They didn't, so now, with the WG relegated to a \"what just happened\"
    roll, this putrid ball of opaque W3Cness is in my court. \r\n\r\nNot to worry,
    I've got a big racket."
  created: '2010-09-09 13:55:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The wrapper distinguishes, at the file delivery stage, a font licensed for
    use on the web from all the existing fonts out there not licensed for use on the
    web, and does so with the option of labels that make it possible for font vendors
    and their customers to see where a font came from and where it is licensed to
    be used. The wrapper also comes with conformance requirements that stipulate same
    origin restriction, hence protecting the customer's investment in the web font
    license and bandwidth by preventing hot linking. \r\n\r\nThe first of these benefits
    would presumably be possible with new metadata in the sfnt font data, although
    trying to standardise something in the OT/OFF specs looked like taking a lot longer
    and wouldn't engage the browser makers in the way that a W3C process has. The
    second of these benefits would not be possible with .ttf because there would be
    no web standard definition within which to define a same origin restriction.\r\n\r\nThe
    support of unwrapped font linking on the web is targeted, as H\xE5kon intended
    when he implemented it in Opera and as MS confirmed when explicitly linking it
    to installable fonts, at free and open source fonts."
  created: '2010-09-09 17:16:37'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Well, you better get a real reason then. ttf is the most interoperable
    font format on this particular planet. What I was beggin' for, was a person from
    the OS, Browsers or W3C to stand up like a man or woman and tell us what the use
    of a wrapper is. They didn't, so now, with the WG relegated to a \"what just happened\"
    roll, this putrid ball of opaque W3Cness is in my court.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm afraid
    this makes no sense to me."
  created: '2010-09-10 06:26:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wow John, slow down from hudsonic speed, and maybe you'll talk truth!  The
    wrapper distinguishes, at the file <em>deliverable</em> stage, a font <em>converted</em>
    for use on the web from an existing font <em>not converted</em> for deliverability
    on the web <em>in some probably distant future</em>, and does so with the option
    of labels <em>(only on the server)</em> that make it <em>impossible</em> for vendors
    to see where a font came from and where it is licensed to be used.  If a user
    <em>wants to</em>, they can look at the deliverable format <em>(that would be
    on the server)</em>, but by the time the user has had it unwrapped, delivered
    and enumerated to their operating system by the browser, it is a ttf, with <em>none
    of the wrapper</em>. WOFF has nothing to do with determining the licensability
    of font, <em>and it never will</em>.\r\n\r\nThere is absolutely no doubt about
    what I just wrote is true, with the italic words hopefully enlightening you, as
    no amount of inexperience can do. \r\n\r\nYour point about Howcome's intentions
    are utterly meaningless, considering the same Howcome is vending Prince, with
    what its use of WOFF as an embeddable pdf format implies.\r\n\r\nWow Chris! Don't
    stay afraid or this will never make sense to you."
  created: '2010-09-13 13:06:13'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>but by the time the user has had it unwrapped, delivered and enumerated
    to their operating system by the browser, it is a ttf, with none of the wrapper.</cite>\r\n\r\nAFAIK,
    non of the current WOFF implementations install the font into user's system, it
    unwraps it in memory and passes it directly to the underlying libraries. It is
    not that I'm fond of wrappers or garden fences, but I fail to see what harm they
    do, as long as non-wrapped fonts are still supported. (Why I need to convert Gentium
    to some wrapper format if I'm legally allowed to use it as is?)"
  created: '2010-09-13 15:39:16'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "David, everything makes sense to me except the stuff you're saying!\r\n\r\nYou
    keep saying TrueType is the most interoperable format. Interoperable where? All
    we care about when it comes to fonts on the web is browser interoperability. Right
    now (a) there is no format that is fully interoperable; (b) there is no expectation
    that TTF will be fully interoperable; (c) there is an expectation that WOFF will
    become fully interoperable.\r\n\r\n<cite>... by the time the user has had it unwrapped,
    delivered and enumerated to their operating system by the browser, it is a ttf,
    with none of the wrapper. WOFF has nothing to do with determining the licensability
    of font, and it never will.</cite>\r\n\r\nA lot of people want to see the browsers
    expose WOFF metadata to the users. It will never be required, but we're hoping
    that browsers will see a user benefit to doing so and add it as a feature. So,
    the idea is that a font vendor adds licensing information to WOFF metadata and
    the browser shows it to the end user. It is not certain that the WOFF-specific
    info (e.g. the metadata) will just disappear.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, does a
    user (a viewer) care about the font license? The real value of WOFF metadata is
    that it is part of the WOFF file. If someone grabs the WOFF off a server or finds
    it sitting around on someone else's computer, they can (in theory) look to see
    how it has been licensed, if it's okay to use, whatever. I'm not getting your
    assertion that WOFF has nothing to do with determining a license. You could argue
    that WOFF might not end up being as useful as we hope, but that's quite different
    from the factual certainty you're expressing."
  created: '2010-09-13 17:52:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, the WOFF is delivered to the user agent (browser), which is responsible
    for unwrapping it, so the metadata label is not only 'on the server': it travels
    with the WOFF file to the user's browser, and while there is no obligation for
    the browser to display that metadata or do anything else with it, but as Chris
    notes, there are plenty of people who want to be able to display that metadata,
    including those users who simply wonder 'What's that cool font?'\r\n\r\nAlso,
    as previously noted numerous times, there is nothing in the WOFF delivery mechanism
    that prevents you from including other metadata in the sfnt font data, nor from
    standardising such metadata if you can muster enough agreement and support for
    how to do so. And there would <em>still</em> be no obligation for any browser
    or OS do do anything with that metadata, because they've made it perfectly clear
    that they will not accept such an obligation.\r\n\r\n<em>...Howcome is vending
    Prince, with what its use of WOFF as an embeddable pdf format implies.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't imply anything at all about WOFF as an embeddable PDF format, because
    by the time Prince is creating a PDF the font is unwrapped and what matters at
    that stage is the ol' embedding bits, just like any other PDF creation.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, if you are going to set all your web font embedding bits to 'Installable'
    so that you can serve unwrapped TTF to IE9 beta, you've lost any possibility of
    serving a font to a website that cannot be embedded in a PDF by Prince or by any
    print-to-PDF function."
  created: '2010-09-13 20:35:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "KH>...non[e] of the current WOFF implementations install the font into user's
    system, it unwraps it in memory and passes it directly to the underlying libraries.
    \r\n\r\nKnow farther then. The WOFF is downloaded, loaded into memory for unwrapping,
    and if you want to call passing the ttf to the \"underlying libraries\", go right
    on ahead. It is enumerated to the user's OS as a ttf, the delivery format, for
    rendering by the system font software, the only software on the user's computer
    capable of sizing, scaling, and rendering the web type that shows up on screen.
    \r\n\r\nJH> ...\r\n\r\nI'm not talking about meta data... here. We had a wonderful
    discussion of that with the eula sig at ATypI. This is about the rubber-stamped
    document, referred to above, that's driving us apart. My point there is, it seems
    easier to bugger foundries when they've been \"brought together\", and its especially
    easy when the <em>\"invited experts\"</em> are really only <em>invited</em>. \r\n\r\nI
    see no foundry, user or web developer reason for the wrapper, and no one else
    has brought forth any reason here, other than to serve the legal interests of
    the non-founders involved. If the non-founders can't explain their needs, preferring
    to call them our needs, well, that's an important non-answer. So I guess the \"quality\"
    and \"accuracy' of that document stands as the answer, and the togetherness is
    over. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-14 13:59:00'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite> I see no foundry, user or web developer reason for the wrapper...</cite>\r\n\r\nInteroperability.
    Metadata. Same-origin checking.\r\n\r\nThe point about WOFF not being installed
    is that its not made available to anything outside the web page that's calling
    it. It doesn't appear in a fonts menu elsewhere. It can't be used by web pages
    on other sites."
  created: '2010-09-14 17:50:02'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Know farther then. The WOFF is downloaded, loaded into memory for unwrapping,
    and if you want to call passing the ttf to the \"underlying libraries\", go right
    on ahead. It is enumerated to the user's OS as a ttf, the delivery format, for
    rendering by the system font software, the only software on the user's computer
    capable of sizing, scaling, and rendering the web type that shows up on screen.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    fail to see which part of the \"rendering by the system font software\" requires
    enumerating the font in the menus, FreeType, for example, can happily render a
    font already loaded in the memory (you pass to it a pointer to the loaded font
    buffer), and I Windows native libraries seem to have such support. Indeed, I've
    been using WOFF (and unwrapped TTF) for a while now and I don't see any of those
    fonts anywhere in my font menu, so you'd better stick to your own advice and \"Know
    farther\"."
  created: '2010-09-14 20:18:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "KH>\r\nI use the word enumerate, instead of install, to indicate that the
    font does not show up in menus, and that is not part of the issue I am discussing.
    So interop., metadata and s.o. restrictions, none of these are inherently woff
    specific,  "
  created: '2010-09-15 11:13:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So interop., metadata and s.o. restrictions, none of these are inherently
    woff specific</em>\r\n\r\nWOFF has better interoperability potential than other
    font formats, including unwrapped TTF, because it is being defined through the
    W3C process by the people who will interoperably implement it in browsers. This
    means not only that there is a will to make it broadly interoperable, but that
    there is a formal description of what interoperability mean in terms of conformance
    requirements and testing. Sure, unwrapped TTF might have been defined as a W3C
    recommendation with such conformance requirements and testing, <strong>but it
    wasn't</strong>, because there was no will to make it broadly interoperable, just
    as there was no will to make EOT or SVG fonts broadly interoperable or, back in
    the day, TrueDoc.\r\n\r\nWOFF has standard metadata. Sure, one could put whatever
    metadata one likes in the sfnt font data -- and one still can within a WOFF wrapper
    --, but after a <em>decade or more</em> of hearing font makers talk about font
    metadata, and seeing some putting private data tables into fonts, I don't see
    us being any closer to a standardised metadata structure or even agreement over
    what should go into such metadata. WOFF sidesteps the issue -- leaving it open
    for future development -- by putting some standard metadata as labels at the delivery
    wrapper level.\r\n\r\nSingle origin restrictions <em>as a conformance requirement</em>
    are indeed WOFF specific. There is no other web font format in which SOR is an
    explicit requirement, because there is no other formally defined web font format.
    Sure, a foundry might put a requirement in its web font license agreement that
    a web developer must prevent hot linking of the web font to multiple sites, but
    that is unenforceable without browser-side application of same origin restriction,
    and there is no SOR conformance requirement for unwrapped TTFs."
  created: '2010-09-15 18:14:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> This means not only that there is a will to make it broadly interoperable,
    but that there is a formal description of what interoperability mean in terms
    of conformance requirements and testing. \r\n\r\nJohn, this conformance is all
    related to WOFF, the wrapper. Conform into the wrapper, conform out of the wrapper.
    Who cares?\r\n\r\nJH> WOFF sidesteps the issue [of metdata]--\r\n\r\nThat's just
    one way of putting it.\r\n\r\nJH> unwrapped TTF might have been defined as a W3C
    recommendation with such conformance requirements and testing, but it wasn't,
    because there was no will to make it broadly interoperable\r\n\r\nIt'd be like
    having laws that only apply when we're dressed, but if we're naked, well, then
    we are above the law. That works! No One wants to talk about having laws for when
    they're naked anyway, so forget it. Thing is, like some professionals, when the
    fonts are naked's when they do all their work. \r\n\r\nJH> There is no other web
    font format in which SOR is an explicit requirement, because there is no other
    formally defined web font format. \r\n\r\nExactly. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-15 20:27:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, it isn't when the fonts are doing their work that is a concern, in
    web fonts any more than in e.g. embedded PDF or simply in use on a licensed user's
    system, it is how the fonts are delivered to the place where they will do their
    work and what protocols exist for ensuring that they go to that place and not
    to another. To borrow your metaphor, it is about letting the ladies walk the streets
    naked vs. putting them in a taxi with written instructions for the driver on the
    destination and standard protocols for the doorman when the ladies get there.\r\n\r\nThe
    WOFF wrapper provides a convenient way to compress and identify a web font <em>as
    a web font</em> and to indicate <em>without needing to touch the font data inside</em>
    where it comes from and where it belongs. Yes, it isn't the only way it could
    have been done, but it is the only way on which there was any kind of consensus
    from the different parties that are necessarily involved. So it is what is happening,
    is being implemented by all the browser makers, and seems to be widely supported
    by pretty much everyone except you."
  created: '2010-09-16 01:39:17'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "JH: <cite>...is being implemented by all the browser makers, and seems to
    be widely supported by pretty much everyone except you.</cite>\r\n\r\nSilence
    is not equal to support. Type designers are busy designing typefaces and producing
    fonts; that's what they do for a living.\r\n\r\nThe reality is, few type designers
    are able to even follow the discussions in the W3C list, let alone actively participate
    and defend positions against programmers, who have a totally different point-of-view
    and entry point to the subject (and who are actually paid to develop and implement
    standards as part of their jobs).\r\n\r\nI for one trust David Berlow's experience
    and support his criticism, and wish more of his points had been taken into account
    by the W3C working group.\r\n\r\nThe few points I have tried to raise \u2013 <a
    href='http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2009JulSep/0793.html'>rendering
    issues and PPEM-specific sizes</a> and <a href='http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font/2010AprJun/0235.html'>standard
    display of meta information</a> \u2013 have been disregarded as unimportant or
    secondary. The agenda is clearly dictated by browser and tool makers, so why bother?\r\n\r\nFinally,
    the fact that IE9 adds support to raw font linking completely undermines the WOFF
    effort, in my opinion."
  created: '2010-09-16 12:33:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "gferreira><em>Type designers are busy designing typefaces and producing fonts;
    that's what they do for a living.</em>\r\nEverybody <strong>sells</strong> for
    a living, pal, don't kid yourself.\r\n\r\nProducing fonts for who, to be displayed
    where?\r\n\r\nI don't think there is any creative community that has been treated
    by the W3C with as much consideration as type producers. (I don't think there's
    a precedent, if so, I'd like to know.)\r\n\r\nIf things didn't work out totally
    the way you wanted, well them's the breaks.\r\nYes, browser makers are calling
    the shots. Live with it and move on.\r\nDon't like WOFF? Ignore it and see where
    that gets you.\r\n\r\nThe \"actual problems\" WOFF solves are legal and psychological
    ones, not technical."
  created: '2010-09-16 18:40:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: John, my support of woff is unwavering and complete. We'll get on to the other
    issues anon. Do you support document on the page I'm pointing at?
  created: '2010-09-16 21:01:27'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: "I support the idea of WOFF and the effort; I support and highly respect Erik,
    Tal and all the others involved; but as a type designer who is following the whole
    webfont story closely for years, and actually designing screen fonts, I still
    fail to see the benefits of the format. It used to be standard support in all
    new browsers, but as it turns out TTFs will be just fine for IE9. It could have
    been standard access and display of meta-information, but this part now is considered
    to be optional. Meanwhile, the fundamental issues for people designing typefaces
    for screens \u2014 rendering, scaling \u2014 remain unadressed.\r\n\r\n(To be
    continued. Or maybe not.)\r\n\r\nPS: I don't want to sound pessimistic; the glass
    is half full. But I wonder how many of the type designers/foundries who rushed
    to put their names in I-support-WOFF lists actually understand the issues surrounding
    the design of typefaces for screens, and are actually following the work being
    done by the W3C. (If they do understand, and are following: why are they silent?)"
  created: '2010-09-16 22:27:26'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Finally, the fact that IE9 adds support to raw font linking completely
    undermines the WOFF effort, in my opinion.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly if the raw font
    is set \"installable\", which is not going to include most commercial fonts. IMO
    it's not really raw font support -- but I guess that's debatable, depending on
    where you stand. I would think that the average type designer trying to actually
    make a living with it is not going to set their fonts installable, and would therefore
    not benefit from this IE9 feature."
  created: '2010-09-17 01:09:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "CS >Only if the raw font is set \"installable\", which is not going to include
    most commercial fonts. \r\n\r\nMost what? Installable is the setting of Many Commercial
    Type1 fonts \u2014 Or at least any that grant the licensee the right to send an
    editable pdf to the end of the editorial line, which is quite often at the printer.
    \r\n\r\nChris, do you support document on the page I'm pointing at?"
  created: '2010-09-17 21:54:19'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Installable is the setting of Many Commercial Type1 fonts \u2014 Or
    at least any that grant the licensee the right to send an editable pdf to the
    end of the editorial line, which is quite often at the printer.</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay.
    It's not the setting of Adobe fonts and I don't think it's the setting of Monotype
    fonts. Aren't you describing \"editable embedding\"? How are Font Bureau fonts
    set?\r\n\r\n<cite>do you support document on the page I'm pointing at?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    see you've asked John the same question. What do you mean by that?"
  created: '2010-09-18 01:43:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Installable is the setting of Many Commercial Type1 fonts\r\n\r\nOff-topic
    but have to correct this. Type 1 fonts don\u2019t have embedding bits. TrueType
    fonts (with an OS2 table) and OpenType fonts do. I've not come across commercial
    TTF or OTF fonts intentionally set to installable. That's not to say they don't
    exist, but by any definition there are not \u201CMany\u201D of them out there.\r\n\r\nMost
    TTF and OTF fonts are set to \u201CPrint & Preview\u201D. Exceptions being Adobe
    and Microsoft fonts that are often set to \u201CEditable\u201D.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-18 02:19:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yes of course, I was a word off and got an immediate minor correction.The
    facts remain that we have a  class of users who use and want fonts that are a
    simple conversion away from being link able to ie9,  and the document I'm referring
    to, which is more than a few words off, being whole concepts off, is unlikely
    to need ever minor corrections, being suitable as it is as \" WOFF for Dummies,
    (who want to stay that way)\" \r\n\r\nDo you support this document Si?"
  created: '2010-09-18 11:42:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I support all documents. '
  created: '2010-09-18 16:51:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, are you referring to the W3C 'FAQ' document? I've already indicated
    that I think this document has problems, fails to distinguish WOFF-specific benefits
    from general @font-face benefits, and needs to be improved. Do I support it? I
    don't think it is a document that asks for or requires support. It's an FAQ, so
    it should be helpful to understanding, and where it isn't it should be fixed.
    It's not a position paper, manifesto or technical recommendation.
  created: '2010-09-18 18:35:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I support all documents.\r\n\r\nI'm sure you do, as long as they have no
    effect on your livelihood. \r\n\r\n>It's not a position paper, manifesto...\r\n\r\nAre
    there such things for woff? I'd like to see that. \r\n\r\n>...or technical recommendation.\r\n\r\nNot
    many people will read that. \r\n\r\nThis FAQ is the only read for most users and
    many developers. \r\n\r\nIt's a surprising contrast when one reads the excruciating
    details of the WOFF specification, and its discussion single words, like \"must\"
    vs \"should\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-19 12:17:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "gf><em>\"I don't want to sound pessimistic; the glass is half full... Meanwhile,
    the fundamental issues for people designing typefaces for screens \u2014 rendering,
    scaling \u2014 remain unadressed.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYup. I was gabbing with one type
    designer at ATYPI who was quite shocked that it didn't become obvious to me sooner
    that, despite the WOFF hype and the notion that type design begins now, today,
    with DirectWrite rendering, in reality Microsoft is leaving everybody twisting
    slowly in the wind.\r\n(Sigh.)\r\n\r\nThey are still selling XP for netbooks aren't
    they? Do they not feel any responsibility for transitioning from one environment
    to the next?\r\nGuess not.\r\n\r\nAnyway, my understanding is that as a wrapper,
    WOFF works quite well - the fonts stay nice and fresh - and without refrigeration!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 19:41:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zigzag_4672.png]'
  created: '2010-09-22 00:07:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This FAQ is the only read for most users and many developers.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    doubt it. At the moment, kinda, and that is why -- as I have said -- it needs
    to be revised and I'll be recommending this as an action item during tomorrow
    morning's working group conference call. But as the WOFF technical spec gets finalised,
    I there will be plenty of documentation available for web authors and developers,
    including sample code, validation tests, and other things that are par for the
    course for web standards. And not all of this will come from the W3C, there will
    be plenty of third party tutorials, new chapters in web design books, advice direct
    from foundries, etc..\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-22 02:13:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> I doubt it.\r\n\r\nThe \"is\" in the context I used it, is the only read
    from the WG's truly stellar efforts. I agree that it's a good idea to move forward
    to other documents, but if we are to love all things W3C we should love its founding
    documents on text and fonts the most. I think this document falsely portrays a
    scenario where readers will think <em>they</em> can go forward with print quality
    type and typography on the web with html and css, because of WOFF. \r\n\r\nSo,
    <em>our</em> first tutorial, I'm afraid is \"Simmer down, we've got it handled
    for you. The browsers and OS had to be \"Legally Blindfolded\" before we could
    go on.\"\r\n\r\nOne issue, unfortunately, is that web developers and users are
    not blindfolded, are they? And yet another issue is that great publications are
    going <strong>all-graphics</strong> on the iPad, and people love it, don't they?
    But the biggest issue may be that the W3C thinks they've taken this GIANT step,
    and are too exhausted to go on? Or maybe that browser makers think they are not
    going to have to become commonly good enough to display iPad-like pages with the
    kind of fidelity you see from that tiny media platform/cocktail tray?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know John, I'd watch 'em like a hawk, if actions speak louder than words
    how loud's a W3C document on the web? They should have at least asked your group,
    and so I wonder how long this revision will take. ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-22 14:14:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, while I agree that the FAQ can be improved, I think you are making
    quite the mountain out of this molehill, and nowhere does that document suggest
    to me that 'a scenario where readers will think they can go forward with print
    quality type and typography on the web with html and css, because of WOFF'. The
    document makes the mistake of equating web font = WOFF (an error, but understandable
    in that WOFF is the only web font format that is being formally defined as a web
    standard by the W3C). The words 'print quality' and 'typography' do not even appear
    in the document.\r\n\r\nI understand and agree with your gripes about rendering
    quality, but that's not a web standards issue. Its a text rendering issue that
    relates to individual operating systems and only secondarily to browsers. Its
    not within scope of the web fonts working group charter. If you want to try to
    get all the operating system and browser makers to come together and define and
    accept a standard for text rendering on the web with conformance requirements
    and testing, then you could probably get the W3C to define a 'web type rendering'
    standard. I think it is unlikely, given that fonts and rendering have been treated
    as an area of competition and differentiation ever since Apple first announced
    TTF; I don't think you will be able to persuade all the OS makers to suddenly
    change to treating rendering as an area of cooperation and standardisation."
  created: '2010-09-22 15:33:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> I think you are making quite the mountain out of this molehill, \r\n\r\nOne
    molehill at a time. \r\n\r\nJohn> If you want to try to get all the operating
    system and browser makers to come together and define and accept a standard for
    text rendering on the web...\r\n\r\nOhhhh, too late... they already <a href=\"http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/painting.html#TextRenderingProperty\">crapped
    that up</a> , but good. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-23 13:30:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>they already crapped that up , but good.</em>\r\n\r\nYour link
    is to the SVG spec. One of the outcomes of the WOFF standardisation -- along with
    Mozilla and Microsoft's refusal to inplemenet SVG web fonts -- is that the SVG
    working group is thinking of giving up on SVG fonts as any kind of compliance
    requirement, in effect acknowledging that SVG is dead-in-the-water as a web font
    format.\r\n\r\n<em>But the biggest issue may be that the W3C thinks they've taken
    this GIANT step, and are too exhausted to go on?</em>\r\n\r\nWorking groups are
    established with specific charters. So it isn't a case of the W3C being 'too exhausted
    to go on' with web fonts beyond defining the WOFF wrapper format and web font
    compliance and testing requirements, but that the current charter of the web fonts
    working group is limited to those items. I presume there is a mechanism for extending
    the charter of a working group, once it has met its initial goals, but that would
    involve defining new goals and getting agreement from the members to pursue those
    and from the W3C to consider formalising the results. What are you suggesting
    such goals might be? Specifically?"
  created: '2010-09-24 03:30:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> Your link is to the SVG spec\r\n\r\nYes it is... \r\n\r\nDid you read
    the documentation of the text-rendering property? \r\n\r\nThat's what is most
    interesting, for the format may go away though I doubt it, but can its properties?
    \r\n\r\nAnd if user agents wanted to, which they did, they can apply this property
    to any font format, which some do today.\r\n\r\nSo, svg is the format MS won't
    support next, is it? ;)\r\n\r\nFor specific new working group goals, I would list
    getting the w3c folk to participate again, disbanding the WG and awaiting a group
    of web and Internet savvy founders and typographers to develop, that can afford
    to watch all the chimps slamming away at their keyboards and pull out the Shakespeare
    as it appears. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:50:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, if I thought the OS and browser makers would sit patiently by while
    the savvy font makers and typographers waited for the combined chimpage of the
    Internet to produce the ideal solution, I'd be with you on this. But they were
    not sitting patiently by: they were proceeding to make decisions and implement
    solutions with which a lot of us were uncomfortable, which were based on fantasies
    about the number and quality of free fonts, and which sailed under the slogan
    'Fu\u0441k the Foundries'. That's where we were a little over a year ago.\r\n\r\nThe
    best solutions for web text <em>will</em> ultimately be determined by font makers
    and typographers, despite all the barriers that other people have thrown up between
    the us and the goal. WOFF is not one of those barriers."
  created: '2010-09-24 18:51:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Yes John, the best solutions will be developed by font makers. And I did
    not say woff is a barrier, just the documentation. And if the fantasy font  crowd
    thought the reader would be served by free fonts, what will they think of next?
    Hmmmmm?   '
  created: '2010-09-27 12:54:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "JH><em>\"The best solutions for web text will ultimately be determined by
    font makers and typographers, despite all the barriers that other people have
    thrown up between the us and the goal.\"</em>\r\n\r\nDB><em>Yes John, the best
    solutions will be developed by font makers.</em>\r\n\r\nI assume \"font makers\"
    means the industry as it has <em>existed</em> up till now.\r\n\r\nSome blogger
    posted <a href=\"http://cjrogers.com/the-coming-revolution-in-web-design-woff/143/\">this</a>:\r\n<em>You
    might not be aware, but there is a generation of font designers who have been
    waiting for this moment for fifteen years.</em>\r\n\r\nNo way to know for sure
    yet, it has to play out, but I suspect he's correct.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-27 15:18:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">there is a generation of font designers who have been waiting for this moment
    for fifteen years.\r\n\r\nI think that \"generation\" could be defined as the
    designers responsible for the fonts hosted at dafont.com. Not from a quality perspective,
    but more as the amateurs and part-timers who think it\u2019s pretty cool to have
    their creations actually used in the real world. \r\n\r\nThere's a separate class
    of professional type designers who have been waiting for this moment too, but
    with more a sense of apprehension and concern.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si \r\n"
  created: '2010-09-27 18:00:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like Si is ready for the lyrics:\r\n\r\n\"But february made me shiver\r\nWith
    every paper I\u2019d deliver.\r\nBad news on the doorstep;\r\nI couldn\u2019t
    take one more step.\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t remember if I cried\r\nWhen I read about
    his widowed bride,\r\nBut something touched me deep inside\r\nThe day the music
    died.\""
  created: '2010-09-27 18:34:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Close, more like this one...\r\n\r\nWeb monkeys try to put us d-down (Talkin'
    'bout font generation)\r\n\u2018Cos we license fonts around (Talkin' 'bout font
    generation)\r\nThings they say sound awful c-c-cold (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\nI
    hope I die before my fonts get stole\u2019d (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\nThis
    is font generation\r\nThis is font generation, baby\r\nWhy don't you all f-fade
    away (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\nAnd don't try to dig what we all s-s-say
    (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\nI'm not trying to cause a WOFF s-s-sensation
    (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\nI'm just talkin' 'bout font g-g-g-generation
    (Talkin' 'bout font generation)\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-27 18:45:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: That is still better than "Born Free" :-)
  created: '2010-09-27 18:49:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>I assume \"font makers\" means the industry as it has existed up
    till now.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. It means people who make fonts."
  created: '2010-09-28 04:43:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John>...fonts and rendering have been treated as an area of competition and
    differentiation ever since Apple first announced TTF.\r\n\r\nI want to point out
    that this gross generality is false. The web could not have founded without the
    near-identical input and output of TrueType fonts on the commercial OSs from 1994
    to 1999.\r\n\r\nAs for the \"competition\" over anti-aliasing, I don't see much.
    Apple leaped off the specification entirely with the return of Jobs, and MS leaps
    off the spec. at its very end, when the end user's resolution is x16ed. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 16:49:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">near-identical input and output of TrueType fonts on the commercial OSs
    from 1994 to 1999.\r\n\r\nI would put the start date at 1991, with release of
    OS7 and Win3.1\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2010-09-28 17:21:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I want to point out that this gross generality is false. The web
    could not have founded without the near-identical input and output of TrueType
    fonts on the commercial OSs from 1994 to 1999.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, David, but the
    fact that one font and rendering technology was better suited to the web than
    its competitor and was, for a relatively brief period, near uniformly rendered
    on two operating systems, does not make the general observation false. TrueType
    only existed at that critical time because Apple didn't want to pay Adobe's PS
    licensing fees any longer so produced its own, competing format. They didn't call
    it the Font Wars because it wasn't competitive. The relationship of TrueType and
    the web in the 1990s was symbiotic: yes, the web benefited from the better screen
    legibility of hinted TT, but the TTF format benefited from having a niche in which
    it was clearly better than the competition; this at a time when many print service
    bureaux were still refusing to handle TT fonts because of the bad reputation they
    had gained due to early problems with RIPs. Meanwhile, the competition, i.e. Adobe,
    was busy rolling its own screen rendering in competition with that available from
    the OS to other applications. The arrangement of the competitors changes, such
    that two companies like Apple and MS might temporarily align their efforts on
    promoting TTF\u2014just as Microsoft and Adobe later temporarily aligned their
    efforts on OpenType*\u2014, but there was never a time since the introduction
    of TTF when fonts and rendering were not areas of competition.\r\n___\r\n\r\n*
    And when that temporary arrangement came to an end, MS and Adobe did something
    smart: they got OT into the MPEG standard, so that there would be a formal process
    by which the format could develop that was not reliant on good will between two
    competing companies. Which leads me back to the point I made above: if you think
    some kind of standardisation of rendering is possible at this stage, then you
    need to get the various players to sign up to a standardisation process, with
    all that entails in terms of patent releases, conformance commitments, etc. Simply
    hoping that they will agree\u2014and agree for long enough not for the whole thing
    to unravel on the next release\u2014is not enough."
  created: '2010-09-28 18:26:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Many good points. But I'm not talking about the needs, or history of the
    desktop. I think some kind of standardization of rendering is important, on the
    web, at this stage. \r\n\r\nI don't need to get various players to sign up. The
    magazine/app industry on the iPad is pretty solid proof that having a standardization
    of rendering allows faithful design and good readability in the same general ppm
    size range as the desktop-hosted web. \r\n\r\nPeople say \"-its all a slide show!\"
    and other various things, but iPad mag apps are sort of a \"F-iOS-ck the Standards,
    People Love It!\" statement in itself. That's our competition, not the OS and
    their old dance. \r\n\r\nThis is according even to Bill Hill's Blog, where he
    wants us to go out and find the most mammoth html/css gurus we can, and teach
    them to do the mark-up that'll get web magazines to the quality and consistency
    of iPad magazines.\r\n\r\nWell, Hill and I want the same dang thing! But he doesn't
    understand, that without some rendering conformance, them gurus have to go through
    graded variations of fonts to get iPad-quality mags that work in the marked up
    web world. \r\n\r\nAnd if you appreciate the distance we've forumed, from quality
    of this woff documentation, to a web where gurus stand by ready to make web safe
    magazine publishing via font variations \u2014 good woff information is taking
    too much time for the legal blindfolding it accomplishes.;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 21:24:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "For those who <a href=\"http://billhillsblog.blogspot.com/\">need a link</a>
    \ or else \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 21:26:53'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "During his talk at RIT, WIRED's Chris Anderson made it a point to mention
    - about three times - that Cond&eacute; Nast had it's best year last year.\r\nNow,
    there could be many reasons for this besides the popularity of magazines but it
    seemed to me like Anderson was trying to convince - not the audience - but <em>himself</em>
    that everything is hunky dory. He almost seemed amazed by the continued success.\r\nIf
    you read his books - and there is nothing I would recommend more strongly - you
    realize he's too smart and too savvy an economist not to realize that THE END
    is more often than not preceded by boom times. Magazines have not transferred
    well to the web and there are dark clouds on the horizon.\r\nWhen I talked with
    him afterwards, I asked him if the 80,000 or so downloads of WIRED's premier iPad
    app - which he also made a point of mentioning - could just be people in the publishing
    industry wanting to have a look and hoping against hope that WIRED will, indeed,
    pave a way to salvation - as CN is hoping it might. He said, \"It could be.\"\r\n\r\n(Ain't
    gonna succeed, if you ask me. And if Chris Anderson was a free-lance economist
    instead of the editor of WIRED, betcha he'd say the same thing.)\r\n\r\nYesterday,
    Ray Kurzweil's Blio book software debuted. Yet another debacle based on the idea
    that what we need is book simulation software for the screen.\r\nWe do not need
    magazine simulation software, either. And the sooner everybody gets that idea
    in their heads, the better.&emsp;IMHO, of course.\r\nWhatever form a \"magazine\"
    takes on the web, it won't look like a printed magazine. And if it's available
    only within a walled garden like the iPad, all that will do is limit readership.
    And then the question becomes, \"Will the number of people willing to pay make
    the effort worthwhile?\"\r\nSo far, I doubt it. But that's conjecture. Don't know
    if WIRED's talkin'."
  created: '2010-09-29 20:08:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, here's an update on the W3C FAQ. Chris Lilley just got back from two
    weeks of business trips followed by two weeks of vacation. During today's working
    group conference call he confirmed that the existing FAQ was something he put
    together quickly following the WOFF press release that came out during TypeCon,
    so that journalists would have something to which to refer if unable to contact
    him during his travels (which further explains the nature of the questions and
    answers, reflecting the sort of exchanges Chris was having with journalists).
    We opened an action item today for the FAQ to be revised, and Chris, Vlad and
    I will be working on this, and then having the working group review and provide
    feedback before a new version is posted on the W3C site.\r\n\r\nAs I envisage
    it, the FAQ will relate to both WOFF specifically and web served typography more
    generally, within the context of W3C specifications (CSS2, CSS3, use of @font-face,
    and WOFF), but will better distinguish the particular benefits of WOFF and the
    general benefits of web fonts. Sound all right?"
  created: '2010-09-30 03:43:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "R.Fink>...it's available only within a walled garden like the iPad\r\n\r\nThe
    thing that I don't get is why more people don't defend embedding the design and
    fonts in the document as graphics, or whatever, as opposed to the mess of the
    web's delivery and display. Besides the obvious tools and skills re-use in the
    authoring of iPad magazines for the internet, the IP issues for the software and
    text is solved, and the user's device stays cooler, fighting global warming and
    battery use. I nearly burned my hand that first week browsing Webtype on my phone.\r\n\r\nBesides,
    if <em>not having to deal</em> with Windows or the W3C means success of e-publishing
    for your organization, and if e-reading clearly benefits, then let that be a lesson
    to yous. \r\n\r\nJ.Hudson> Sound all right?\r\n\r\nIn the short term, whatever
    you say. I look forward optimistically to the next drafts! In the long term it
    sounds like a thin thread at the W3C for what I view from a bird's eye as extraordinary
    circumstances. 95% of the content of the web's up for what appears to be unfathomably
    complex treatment by a combination of user agents and user agent hosts, just to
    start. As I've said before, the W3C has opened the biggest school of typographic
    education in history, and we should love them for their documents.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-30 13:50:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>As I've said before, the W3C has opened the biggest school of typographic
    education in history, and we should love them for their documents.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    I agree."
  created: '2010-10-01 04:46:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>The thing that I don't get is why more people don't defend embedding
    the design and fonts in the document as graphics, or whatever, as opposed to the
    mess of the web's delivery and display.</em>\r\n\r\nI was thinking about exactly
    this last night - because I'm addicted to \"Project Runway\" (having spent so
    many years in the Fashion Biz), and I really, really can't see the average woman
    clamoring for selectable HTML text when all they want to do is browse the ads
    in an electronically simulated version of Marie Claire or Vogue or whatever.\r\nThese
    mags don't get read, they get looked at.\r\nI think that deriding these apps as
    mere \"slideshows\" sells them short. Timely and mightily expensive slideshows,
    that's for sure.\r\nWhat's wrong with an attractive slideshow? It lends itself
    to certain kinds of content - I agree."
  created: '2010-10-01 16:55:24'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">clamoring for selectable HTML \r\n\r\nI'll let the \"average\" women respond
    to what they clamor for, but indexing and searching are relatively important scenarios
    even in static content like PDFs. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 17:46:55'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>Will commercial font licenses that allow for user conversion of desktop
    fonts into WOFF fonts add to web font licensing confusion?</em>\r\n\r\nIs this
    customer confusion problem a real thing or just something meant to scare those
    of us who allow format conversions to get in line?\r\n\r\nAre customers confused
    by movies? Movies free in jets but late. Movies are expensive in a theater but
    cheap to rent. You can buy the movie but it looks no better than the rented version.
    Sometimes movies are on TV for free and you can tape them. You can pay to download
    a movie. You can get a friend to rent it and watch it at their place. The prices
    for these vary from store to store.\r\n\r\n\"I wish I wasn't allowed to tape this
    movie that's showing on TV because it makes me kind of . . . you know . . . confused
    or something. Must kill everyone.\" (actual movie customer quote)\r\n\r\nOpen
    source fonts allow format conversion and have no pageview limit. You can buy a
    multi format web fonts kit complete with style sheet, improved hinting and proper
    customer service. You can rent (sort of) hosted web fonts - easy to install and
    reliable. Sometimes a license agreement will allow you to convert your own web
    fonts from a desktop font. Sometimes you pay a flat rate. Sometimes you're limited
    to a certain number of hits. Prices vary. A reliable vendor may cost more but
    to some people it's worth it. Some people need to pinch pennies or just like doing
    things themselves . . . or dislike restrictions on things they buy.\r\n\r\nIs
    offering less choice a service for customers or for vendors?"
  created: '2010-10-02 04:02:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The thing that I don't get is why more people don't defend embedding
    the design and fonts in the document as graphics, or whatever, as opposed to the
    mess of the web's delivery and display.</cite>\r\n\r\nBecause graphics don\u2019t
    scale well and they can lead to nasty bandwidth bills for big sites. Remember
    how much bandwidth popular sites like ESPN saved when they switched to CSS instead
    of loads of inline formatting? Just think about what they\u2019ll save when a
    font smaller than a decent graphic gets downloaded one time and all the graphics
    are generated client-side. And it\u2019s not just a big deal for content providers;
    the ATT/iPhone debacle has shown that bandwidth consumption may become very important
    on oversold wireless data networks."
  created: '2010-10-02 04:40:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Me > Will commercial font licenses that allow for user conversion of desktop
    fonts into WOFF fonts add to web font licensing confusion?\r\n\r\nRay > Is this
    customer confusion problem a real thing \r\n\r\nThe question was actually prompted
    by an audience question at TypeCon. For my customers web font licensing confusion
    is real. I get questions all the time. Are you finding the opposite? Do your customers
    get it?  \r\n\r\nRay > meant to scare those of us who allow format conversions
    to get in line?\r\n\r\nAdobe allows conversion, but they don't allow redistribution
    of the converted fonts. WOFF conversion implies redistribution. Not trying to
    scare anyone, just interested in what can be done to help educate people around
    the issue. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-02 05:10:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "J.Hudson> Yes, I agree.\r\n\r\nWell, I think you need to think some pretty
    basic things different then. E.G. from the W3C list: <em> \u201CMoving forward,
    as browsers implement CSS3 font feature support, demo web pages with sample CSS
    code seems the obvious way to proceed, and I don't think foundries will need to
    be told this.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed, and done on the hand of today, but on
    the other hand this is the web... not medieval Europe. Your obvious and ancient
    way, (foundry, as most knowing composer, educating/composing for the client),
    is fatally incomplete as the only answer for the web of tomorrow being decided
    today. The right way for the web is for the font to be the most knowing composer,
    educating the client and software.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-02 13:22:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sii> Not trying to scare anyone, just interested in what can be done to help
    educate people around the issue.\r\n\r\nWell, the future of education on permissions
    lies not in the obvious and ancient way, (foundry, as most knowing permitter,
    educating/permitting the client, and for the client). This is fatally incomplete
    as the only answer for the web of tomorrow being decided today. The right way
    for the web is for the font to be the most knowing permitter, educating the client
    and software."
  created: '2010-10-02 13:26:57'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>For my customers web font licensing confusion is real. I get questions
    all the time. Are you finding the opposite? Do your customers get it?</em>\r\n\r\nGet
    what? You never say what it is they're supposed to \"get\".\r\nI've challenged
    you, I believe, on this before: explain font licensing simply and comprehensively
    in one paragraph.\r\nGo on, I double dare ya.\r\n\r\nMoving on... since the following
    snappy retort was to my posting on the W3C list:\r\n\r\n<em>Moving forward, as
    browsers implement CSS3 font feature support, demo web pages with sample CSS code
    seems the obvious way to proceed, and I don't think foundries will need to be
    told this.</em>\r\n\r\nI think different. I think it's the obvious that <strong>must</strong>
    be stated. It's the obvious that's most inclined to be overlooked.\r\nIn Medieval
    Europe or today."
  created: '2010-10-02 20:50:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n<em>\"WOFF conversion implies redistribution.\"</em>\r\n\r\nHow in
    hell do you figure that? Is using a font on a web page redistribution?\r\nPlease
    explain."
  created: '2010-10-02 20:54:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is using a font on a web page redistribution?\r\n \r\nYes"
  created: '2010-10-03 04:33:41'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Ray >> Is this customer confusion problem a real thing\r\n\r\nSii > The question
    was actually prompted by an audience question at TypeCon. For my customers web
    font licensing confusion is real. I get questions all the time. Are you finding
    the opposite? Do your customers get it?\r\n\r\nI think my customers get it now.
    I haven't had many questions about embedding since I simplified my <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/license.html\">EULA</a>
    and added a page on my site about <a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/embedding.html\">embedding</a>.
    Maybe the diagram alleviates some non-English-speakers' confusion too. You're
    not limited to using text to explain what customers are allowed to do. Nowadays
    you can post a sock puppet show on YouTube explaining the embedding situation
    if you want to. Diagrams, comics . . . whatever gets the point across more clearly.
    Shoehorning that information into a heavy EULA is the ideal way to ensure that
    it's less understood.\r\n\r\nIt seems the only method I have to measure customer
    confusion is the number of questions I get. I think having the embedding explanation
    out in the open rather than buried in the EULA is just common sense. A year ago,
    the most common embedding question was \"can I convert this font myself using
    Font Squirrel?\" I've had many positive comments about my decision to allow all
    types of web embedding with the standard license."
  created: '2010-10-04 03:05:08'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<i>>Is using a font on a web page redistribution?\r\n\r\nYes</i>\r\n\r\n\r\nOf
    course it is - the font is distributed to each visitor to the website. "
  created: '2010-10-06 04:43:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave: <em>Of course it is - the font is distributed to each visitor to the
    website.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile I agree that using a font on a web page constitutes
    a kind of distribution, it isn't what I would consider the primary meaning of
    \u2018redistribution\u2019 in terms of a EULA, which would be intentional selling
    or giving away copies of a font <em>for use</em> by other parties. A font on a
    website is displayed to each visitor to the site, and only as a by-product is
    it sent to that local machine in some format and possibly cached. It is convenient
    that existing font licenses that prohibit redistribution also prohibit web serving
    on the grounds that this technically involves distributing the font, but moving
    forward I don't think it is in anyone's interest to continue to lump web font
    serving with redistribution, any more than it has been to lump PDF embedding with
    redistribution. These are specialised uses of fonts, which should be clearly and
    independently covered by appropriate license terms. As new technologies make new
    things possible, updated license agreements should explicitly clarify whether
    these things are permitted or not."
  created: '2010-10-06 05:51:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Spoke sii:\r\n\r\nRF>>Is using a font on a web page redistribution?\r\nsii>Yes\r\n\r\nMy
    answer is: see John Hudson's answer.\r\n\r\nBTW - to underscore the incredible
    legal complexity involved in licensing issues - it seems Canonical, the sponsors
    of the Ubuntu font, can't even find a way to license the fracking thing in a suitable
    way. (To anybody who's done any serious reading about licensing and copyright
    this is no surprise.)\r\nThey are looking to sponsor legal research. Their travails
    chronicled <a href=\"http://font.ubuntu.com/ufl/FAQ.html\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    in the news, the Russian government uses bogus \"Intellectual Property\" issues
    - specifically Windows licenses - to shut down political dissidents while Microsoft
    stands mute. (This, too, was no surprise. It was inevitable.)\r\nI guess open
    source - among its other advantages - can now help keep you out of jail!&ensp;The
    Brazilian government has the right idea, perhaps.\r\n\r\nYou mute on that, too,
    sii? Yes?\r\n(Just playin' widya, mister monosyllable.)\r\n\r\nLater,\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-10-06 15:11:11'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> Meanwhile, in the news, the Russian government uses bogus \"Intellectual
    Property\" issues - specifically Windows licenses - to shut down political dissidents
    while Microsoft stands mute. (This, too, was no surprise. It was inevitable.)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/14/world/europe/14raid.html?_r=2&hp\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 02:13:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">You mute on that, too, sii? Yes?\r\n \r\nThe Geico caveman said it best\u2026
    \"next time do a little research\" \r\n\r\nI agree with Dave, if the font is posted
    to a server by a licensee then that equals redistribution plain and simple, as
    does posting a PDF that includes it embedded in the traditional way.\r\n\r\n>the
    sponsors of the Ubuntu font, can't even find a way to license the fracking thing
    in a suitable way.\r\n\r\nPerhaps they secretly want to keep it to themselves.
    \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 04:41:30'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Perhaps they secretly want to keep it to themselves.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    Geico caveman said it best\u2026 \"next time do a little research\"</cite>"
  created: '2010-10-07 10:55:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: True :-)
  created: '2010-10-07 14:44:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@kevlar\r\n\r\nThanks for the link. Unfortunately, MSFT can't eat the IP
    cake and rein it in, too. The distress may be genuinely felt by MSFT employees,
    but it's Window dressing, really.\r\nYou reap what you sow in the Halls of Congress.\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, I was just playin' widya.\r\n\r\nFrom the Times article cited:\r\n<em>\"The
    company was responding to criticism that it had supported tactics to clamp down
    on dissent.\"</em>\r\n<em>\"Microsoft would make sure that it was no longer offering
    legal support to politically motivated piracy inquiries by providing a blanket
    software license to advocacy groups and media outlets. They would be automatically
    covered by it, without having to apply.\"</em>\r\nHuh? And how, pray tell, do
    you define and identify \"advocacy groups\" and \"media outlets\"?\r\nLook, there
    is really nothing MSFT can do about this that isn't limp. It's a consequence of
    other policies, that's all.\r\n\r\nMore enlightening is MSFT lawyer Brad Smith's
    <a href=\"http://blogs.technet.com/b/microsoft_blog/archive/2010/09/13/anti-piracy-enforcement-and-ngos.aspx\">statement</a>.\r\nBrad
    Smith is not mute.\r\n\r\nNext time, do a little work and take a representative
    quote from the article. That's what fair use is all about. ;)\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-10-07 16:06:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Rich, there are very few laws that are not open to abuse by repressive states.
  created: '2010-10-07 18:24:47'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Rich, there are very few laws that are not open to abuse by repressive
    states.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd even when there isn\u2019t a law to abuse it does nothing
    to stop the Russian government. That government is more than happy to just send
    a goon out of shoot someone in the head, feed people radioactive toxins, etc..
    By focusing on the Microsoft angle you\u2019re just letting the Russian government
    distract you from what matters."
  created: '2010-10-07 18:35:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Is there a law against burning 2/3 of the appendices in the woff spec?\r\nIf
    not... Is there a CSS property that will set text on fire when the browser is
    finished displaying it?\r\nIf not, is there anyone else who thinks subletting
    an unwrapped sfnt does not result in an \"original\" work? "
  created: '2010-10-08 13:13:45'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>I don't think it is in anyone's interest to continue to lump web font
    serving with redistribution</em>\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2010-10-10 22:13:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dave, when you start making smileys in response to something I've said, I
    immediately wonder how I might have been misunderstood. :)\r\n\r\nTo be completely
    clear: I am not saying that web font serving is not redistribution, I am saying
    that the fact that the question is raised and needs to be answered is a good indication
    that everyone will benefit from future EULAs making explicit statements regarding
    web serving of fonts, rather than presuming that it is understood that prohibition
    of redistribution also covers web serving (and conversely, that permission to
    serve on the web does not imply permission to redistribute)."
  created: '2010-10-11 02:21:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Permissions should be specific, explicit and unambiguous. This is impossible
    in fonts today, isn't it. ;)
  created: '2010-10-11 13:22:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'It should be possible today. Unfortunately licenses were written yesterday
    (five computers connected to one output device!?) and need to address the issues
    of tomorrow. '
  created: '2010-10-11 15:22:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "lol, Sii, but it seems the font format of tomorrow is just a wrapper containing
    the font format of yesterday badly in need of becoming the format of tomorrow
    in what will, by then, be yesterday's wrapper.\r\n\r\nIt is horrifying to <a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-font\">read
    about the scope waffle</a>,(October), and I hope Crossland recovers from the procedural
    tank that ran over him, but right now, it's bad taste to think about licensing
    issues for just a wrapper, IMHO, when casualties are coming in. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-16 14:21:15'
date: '2010-08-23 19:50:24'
node_type: forum
title: WOFF the Font!?

---
