---
author:
  name: oldnick
  picture: 109434
body: "In a previous thread I began in the \u201CRelease\u201D forum, I mentioned
  receiving an inquiry about licensing some my fonts from a large online marketer
  of printed goods. What should have been a simple task of determining pricing for
  server-based use became more complicated when the agreement they offered included
  rights for any media or application which might be developed in the future\u2014in
  essence, obsolescence insurance. After considering input from participants in the
  thread, I decided that this provision was a no-go. However, I am fairly confident
  that, if this entity sought this particular concession, other potential licensees
  may also do so at some time in the future. Despite some resistance to considering
  the community of fontmakers an \u201CIndustry\u201D (see the \u201CThat if?\u201D
  thread), wouldn\u2019t it serve our best interests to have some kind of common stance
  on this issue?\r\n\r\nWhat is the next Big Thing for fonts? Maybe this has already
  been discussed at various conferences but, at first glance, it appears to me that
  we might get a clue from Cloud Computing. The idea of <em>subscribing</em> to software
  served up on the web is, when you think about it, the functional equivalent of obsolescence
  insurance. The idea is, instead of paying moderate to princely sums for periodic
  updates, cloud users have their software updated on a continuing basis, and pay
  a monthly fee for the convenience. Is it possible that font licensing for the cloud
  is the Next Big Thing in fonts? Your thoughts?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Hey, folks, this ain''t no rope-a-dope. These are serious questions: do we
    prepare for the future, or get taken by surprise by it?'
  created: '2010-08-24 22:58:05'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "what are you asking, nick? i don't get it. something about the fututre?\r\n\"subscriptions\"
    worry me too, right. can you explain again like to a 12 year old?"
  created: '2010-08-25 00:02:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Will cloud computing first and foremost consist of HTML applications? '
  created: '2010-08-25 02:07:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, I know that some movies have had to have their music changed when they
    came out on DVD because the studio didn't own the rights to the music for all
    formats.\r\n\r\nOne example is for the episode \"City on the Edge of Forever\"
    of the Star Trek TV show.\r\n\r\nSo I can understand people not wanting to suddenly
    have to relicense all their fonts simply because they need to make their web sites
    available in a new way; for example, in a smaller format designed to be read on
    mobile devices."
  created: '2010-08-25 04:04:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Well, I know that some movies have had to have \r\n> their music changed
    when they came out on DVD...\r\n\r\nI didn't know that. Do you know any other
    titles that have needed to do that?"
  created: '2010-08-25 04:13:39'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nThis happens all the time, but most of the time you'd never
    notice it, since the song that was replaced wasn't an integral part of the scene.
    I've played bass on a couple songs that ended up on either the DVD (Felicity)
    or the download (The Black Donnellys), and the songs are so much in the background
    that no one except crazy hardcore fans would notice the difference.\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite example of this is \"Wayne's World\". There's a scene in a music store
    where Wayne (I think) is playing \"Stairway to Heaven\" on a guitar, and then
    an employee walks over and points to a sign on the wall that says \"No Stairway
    to Heaven\". If you ever see it on TV (they still play it on Comedy Central every
    now and then), the scene makes no sense, because they replace the music with some
    random guitar noodling (it actually inadvertently makes the scene funnier).\r\n\r\nI
    think the same thing happened in the syndicated reruns of \"WKRP in Cincinnati\"
    (at least with some of the songs).\r\n\r\nMusic licensing is really expensive.
    These days, the production companies are being smart about it and licensing maybe
    one well known (i.e. expensive) song for a show, and then licensing a bunch of
    songs from independent artists from much, much less money (a well known song might
    cost $30,000, while people like my friends who have songs placed on shows get
    $1000-$2000), and more importantly, they're setting up the deal up front so that
    it covers the DVD or download. In the old days (i.e. ten or more years ago), they'd
    just license a song for a show, and then they'd have to deal with any repurposing
    of the show with new licenses. I just read recently that the show \"The Wonder
    Years\" probably won't ever be released on DVD because licensing of all the late
    60s/early 70s music, which was so integral to the show, would be too expensive.\r\n\r\nSo
    to bring this back on topic, if the same thing were ever to happen with fonts,
    I'd imagine the same thing to take place. People might license Helvetica Neue
    for a big fancy book, but for the web, or PDFs, they'd settle with Arial, rather
    than paying additional licensing fees.\r\n\r\n\r\nJonathan"
  created: '2010-08-25 13:37:06'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "That's very interesting, Jonathan; thanks. \r\n\r\nA couple of years ago
    the show \"Dirty Jobs\" (Discovery Channel) changed their theme song for several
    episodes due to a music licensing issue, although I don't know the details. It
    caused a huge uproar with their fans until they eventually got the original theme
    back. But I'd never realized until your post that licensing issues were so common."
  created: '2010-08-25 15:00:12'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "You could check out the Movie 'Sita Sings the Blues' for a nightmare story
    along these lines. The filmmaker Nina Paley spent six years animating her own
    feature film, using music in the public domaine- only to find out that broadcast
    copyright works differently from public use copyright. Now the only way she can
    distribute the film is to give it away.\r\n\r\nI don't know how it would work
    for individual type founders, but for a distributer- I could see (and as a user
    of fonts, would love to have) a service like Safari Books Online, where for a
    monthly fee, one has a 'bookshelf' of a certain number of fonts to be used or
    tried out, and each month, one can swap out a certain number of these for new
    fonts. So a typographer could refine and refresh the palette over the years without
    having to pay hundreds of dollars for great new fonts that one will only use a
    couple of times.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-25 15:24:29'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: ">>>Is it possible that font licensing for the cloud is the Next Big Thing
    in fonts? Your thoughts?<<<\r\n\r\nYes, as I have stated elsewhere. The only way
    the *really important* IP-holders can hold on to their properties (movies, tv,
    music, etc) is by going 'cloud' \u2014 content will be delivered to consumers
    on a pay-as-you-go basis & this will be a viable business model because the cloud-experience
    will be a far more richer one than the one a consumer/user can achieve by him/herself
    with the traditional computer model of having data stored locally.\r\n\r\nA lot
    of current developments are indicative of this trend, e.g. Apple building that
    huge data center, HP buying a firm that's heavily into datacenters, Google and
    their Book Project, TV-streaming becoming more important, that gaming in the cloud
    thing (can't remember the name - I hate gaming), ever faster networks (fibre!),
    iPad and its imitations (tablets aimed at consuming data, not producing them),
    etc. etc.\r\n\r\nI can only guess how things will be different from the way they
    are now, but the WILL be."
  created: '2010-08-25 16:28:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "WKRP got ruined when it went to DVD as the entire soundtrack had to be replaced
    since the original licenses for the music didn't accommodate the new medium. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think 'obsolescence insurance' is a clear term, though. I think what people
    are asking for is \"I'm paying for this now and want to know that this is all
    I need to pay to be able to use this into the future\". \r\n\r\nSome sort of site
    license over time?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-25 16:45:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@angusrshamal\r\n\r\n<em>what are you asking, nick? i don't get it. something
    about the fututre?\r\n\"subscriptions\" worry me too, right. can you explain again
    like to a 12 year old?</em>\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, the <em>eventual</em> full
    implementation of Cloud Computing will consist of applications which reside \"in
    the Cloud,\" that is, on remote web servers. Users will access the apps through
    their web browsers--or a new generation of web-interface apps--and word-process,
    design or whatever it is they do now with apps residing on their local machine
    drives.\r\n\r\nThe advantage this arrangement affords users is, because the apps
    would be subscription-based, the end user has effectively purchased obsolescence
    insurance, because any updates to the apps would be made on the server. The next
    time a user logs on, that user is working with the most recent version of the
    app, and he or she doesn't have to pay for an upgrade. The advantages for the
    software distributors, because the apps would be subscription-based, are numerous:
    no costs associated with promoting and rolling out upgrades, and a steady revenue
    stream from subscriptions.\r\n\r\nIn many ways, the public has been conditioned
    to expect continuing costs as a prerequisite for life in the twenty-first century:
    people routinely pay cellphone bills which are larger than some car payments I
    have had, and don't blink. The subscription model is here to stay.\r\n\r\nWhen
    (not if) this happens, will the type community be prepared? If someone wants to
    subscribe to Nick Shinn's Elegant Text Fonts package or Nick Curtis' Wacky Headline
    Fonts package, what are they going to pay on a recurring basis?"
  created: '2010-08-25 16:46:25'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the end user has effectively purchased obsolescence \r\n> insurance, because
    any updates to the apps would \r\n> be made on the server\r\n\r\nI agree that
    this is probably the future, but there are potential problem with that approach.
    One is that many users --especially corporate users -- don't like to upgrade apps
    right away since new versions are often buggy. \r\n\r\nI suppose there are workarounds
    in a cloud situation, though, like giving users the option use a legacy version
    of an app.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-25 18:11:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>many users --especially corporate users -- don't like to upgrade apps
    right away since new versions are often buggy</em>\r\n\r\nOne reason why this
    may happen is, I think, that software developers feel the need to add a LOT of
    improvements at one time in order to justify the price of an upgrade. If changes
    were made incrementally--and as they were thoroughly tested--unpleasant surprises
    would probably be minimized."
  created: '2010-08-25 18:16:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Not sure if the subscription model will gain that much traction at the individual
    font product level. Few folks are going to want to pay monthly to access a single
    font they used in the future.\r\n\r\nBut, I can see the library model being interesting.
    I could subscribe to a foundry and get access to any of their fonts at any time. "
  created: '2010-08-25 19:03:09'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "Nick, thanks for making it much clearer for me now.\r\n\r\nSo,if I understand
    correctly, you talking about fonts being distributed from server-side files, meaning
    the fonts will be never actually be in the End-user's hard drive, but will be
    able to be used in any application as if it was on your hard drive, providing
    you paid a subscription or even a per-font price?\r\n\r\nIf that's what you mean,
    than this is something I was thinking about and hoping for for years! of course
    I understood that the technology wasn't there yet to make it possible for users
    to actually print documents from any application on their own private printer,
    if the font file wasn't installed in their system.\r\n\r\nBut what if it somehow
    was possible? let's say, with a purchased individual utility or something that
    communicates directly the original font file on the server with your own drive/applications&printer?
    \r\n\r\nIf something like that would be possible it would be absolutely brilliant!
    \r\n- The user will benefit from never having to archive his purchased fonts,
    since the original is always on a server somewhere.\r\n-The user will have access
    to the font from anywhere on his laptop or other computers if multi-user was purchased
    providing an internet connection is possible.\r\n-It will be problematic if you
    are off-line, i suppose.\r\n- It will enable easier updates to fonts on the server
    either free or purchasable for major updates with one click.\r\n\r\n- it will
    also eliminate all font-pirating (or make it almost impossible) since the communicating
    utility can be made exclusive for one or more computers and will be useless without
    the actual font subscription.\r\n\r\n- Still have to figure out how to send files
    like pdfs to service bureaus.\r\n\r\nbut hey... i have 70% figured out already!!
    :)\r\n\r\nany thoughts?"
  created: '2010-08-26 03:59:14'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "to add to that... why a subscription based purchase? \r\nWhy not a single
    font price purchase? Is that something you think the end-user would not be interested
    in in the future?\r\n\r\nI seriously worry about subscription based font market.
    Maybe for web-fonts & websites it's a practical solution, but I seriously doubt
    it will bring any just revenue for the type-designer himself, unless he/she offers
    the subscription directly.\r\n\r\nWould only the most popular fonts benefit the
    designer with some money value for their hard work, and the more \"exclusive\"
    designs be doomed to collect 20% of almost nothing once a year?\r\n\r\nSeems this
    system will benefit and make profit for everyone, except the designer himself!"
  created: '2010-08-26 04:09:58'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  it will also eliminate all font-pirating\r\n>  (or make it almost impossible)
    \r\n\r\nHopefully it would make it very difficult, but pirates will always find
    workarounds, as they have with music and videos."
  created: '2010-08-26 06:28:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"it will also eliminate all font-pirating\"\r\n\r\nNo technical solution
    will eliminate that. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-26 15:08:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@angusrhamal\r\n\r\n<em>Seems this system will benefit and make profit for
    everyone, except the designer himself!</em>\r\n\r\nThat possibility was the <strong>precise</strong>
    reason I started this thread. I don't think the subscription model is a matter
    of <em>if</em>: it's only a matter of <em>when</em>. Font-wise, it may work as
    a temporary font cache that allows printing to paper or electronic document during
    a session, which cache then clears itself at log-off; or, it may be handled in
    some manner undreamed of at present. In any case, the subscription model is inevitable.
    My question was, and remains: will the community of fontmakers be prepared to
    deal with it in a unified manner? Can we develop some standards for permissions
    and pricing?"
  created: '2010-08-26 17:38:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Is it just me, or does large scale (a big library) subscription services
    like Typekit sort of diminish the (percieved) value of type?  '
  created: '2010-08-26 18:12:07'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Is it just me, or does large scale (a big library) subscription services
    like Typekit sort of diminish the (percieved) value of type?</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely. "
  created: '2010-08-26 19:22:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "FWIW, the subscription trend may have already begun. Quite recently, I received
    a licensing inquiry with a proviso I am seeing more and more of lately> My redacted
    reply was:\r\n\r\n<em>The condition \"media whether now known or hereafter devised
    anywhere in the world at any time\" appears to be popular among would-be licensees
    these days. It is effectively obsolescence insurance and, as I am sure you are
    aware, insurance premiums are generally recurring, rather than one-time, payments.
    Without \"or hereafter devised\" </em>et. seq.<em>, the price for a 500-user license
    would be a one-time charge of $xx.xx. With the proviso, the subscription fee would
    be $xx.xx per year, which would include any updates or changes in format necessitated
    by media hereafter devised.</em>\r\n\r\nI will keep you posted on whether or not
    this little experiment flies..."
  created: '2010-08-26 23:22:10'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "you do realize what such companies trying to make users believe, right?\r\n\r\nThat
    the service (wither the webfonts or other) subscription IS the product and the
    actual font design is an OPTIONAL BI-product.\r\n\r\nOf course, for typekit and
    all the others, their service IS their product. They are willing to offer this
    seemingly low price tag on it since they don't actually sell you the actual desktop
    font.\r\n\r\nBut we, type designers, and anyone living off their hard work in
    this business, should somehow find a common ground where both parties get their
    fair share and get real.\r\n\r\nPoint 1) There wouldn't be any bloody webfonts
    business without actual fonts!\r\nPoint 2) There wouldn't be any GOOD webfonts
    out there without the hard work put into it from both sides, the designer and
    the one providing the service.\r\n\r\nI don't mean to sound negative here, I'm
    also just trying to figure this out from my perspective as well. Unless there's
    something I'm missing, as for now a subscription solution doesn't seem to cut
    it as fair for the designer. Period.\r\n\r\nAnd now they offer the self service
    make-your-own-web-kit. What's the deal on that? Under what license? make a web-kit
    with what fonts? What the..\r\n\r\nIt's becoming too technical and I have too
    many questions... phew."
  created: '2010-08-27 04:09:55'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Unless there's something I'm missing, as for now a subscription solution
    doesn't seem to cut it as fair for the designer. Period.</em>\r\n\r\nPRECISELY:
    that's the purpose of this thread, to get designers thinking about how we, as
    an \"industry,\" are going to deal with this inevitable development (HP and Dell
    are currently in a bidding war for cloud-savvy 3Par - http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100827-707275.html
    ). So far, most of the comments have been reactive rather than proactive (I hate
    that word, but sometimes it fits). Are we going to let others dictate the terms,
    or are we going to develop some common approach to subscriptions."
  created: '2010-08-27 17:18:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "More background on story linked to the truncated WSJ article above...\r\n\r\n<strong>In
    fight for 3Par, HP tops Dell's bid with a $1.88 billion offer</strong>\r\n<em>By
    Jessica Mintz, Associated Press\r\nSaturday, August 28, 2010</em>\r\n\r\nSEATTLE
    - Hewlett-Packard boosted its bid for 3Par to $1.88 billion Friday, topping Dell's
    offer by 11 percent and again raising the stakes in the bidding contest for the
    data-storage company.\r\n\r\nThe $30-per-share offer from HP came just hours after
    Dell matched HP's Thursday bid of $27 per share. The latest price is three times
    what 3Par was trading at before Dell made its first bid last week, for $18 per
    share, or $1.13 billion.\r\n\r\nDell and 3Par said earlier Friday that 3Par's
    board had accepted the latest bid from Dell, which only has to match the terms
    of other offers under its initial agreement with 3Par, based in Fremont, Calif.\r\n\r\nOn
    Friday, 3Par shares surged $6.43, or 25 percent, to close at $32.46, which is
    above HP's latest offer price, signaling that investors expect Dell to respond.
    In a statement, Dell spokesman David Frink said the company will review HP's latest
    offer and \"act in the best interests of our customers, shareholders and long-term
    value creation.\"\r\n\r\nHP and Dell, among the world's largest personal computer
    makers, are looking at 3Par as a way to build up their \"cloud computing\" businesses,
    delivering software, data storage and other services to customers over the Internet.\r\n\r\nThey're
    also both trying to expand beyond the PC business, where profits are shrinking
    as computer makers compete with lower prices and where the cost of parts has increased.\r\n\r\nCloud
    computing holds the promise of rich profits for technology providers. Many companies
    aren't buying their own computer servers for certain tasks anymore. Instead, they're
    paying to have software they would have stored on those machines delivered to
    them over the Internet.\r\n\r\nDell, HP and others are taking advantage of the
    trend by offering cloud-computing services on a subscription basis and selling
    equipment and software to help customers build their own cloud systems.\r\n\r\nCloud
    computing can help reduce data-center expenses because the systems are designed
    to be shared by multiple customers, which spreads out the cost of operating pricey
    equipment. The servers and storage computers need to ramp up or scale down quickly
    based on demand to give customers the same high level of service; 3Par's storage
    machines are made for that kind of system.\r\n\r\nBoth HP and Dell can afford
    to continue bidding. Even though Dell is half HP's size, Dell has almost as much
    cash as HP. Dell reported $12.4 billion in cash and short-term investments at
    the end of last quarter. HP had $14.7 billion.\r\n\r\nShares of Dell, which is
    based in Round Rock, Tex., gained 14 cents, or 1.8 percent, to close at $11.89.
    Shares of HP, which is based in Palo Alto, Calif., declined 22 cents, or 0.6 percent,
    to $38.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-28 20:59:21'
date: '2010-08-24 17:15:25'
node_type: forum
title: Obsolescence Insurance and the Next Big Thing

---
