---
author:
  name: fontsquirrel
  picture: 118486
body: "I was surprised after taking a superficial look at the Adobe fonts on Typekit.
  They appear to be autohinted TTFs converted from CFF by FontForge.\r\n\r\nConsidering
  the perceived tone on the TypeCon's webfont panel about how bad-for-the-industry
  autohinting is, has even Adobe accepted that this is \"good enough\" and not worth
  the time and money to build by hand?"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Considering some of the sharp comments on the TypeCon's webfont monster
    panel about how bad-for-the-industry autohinting is...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't recall
    such comments. Who said what?\r\n\r\n\u2018Good enough\u2019 for what? Black and
    white text size rendering on XP?"
  created: '2010-08-24 19:28:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Considering some of the sharp comments on the TypeCon's webfont monster
    panel about how bad-for-the-industry autohinting is\"\r\n\r\nWere you at the same
    panel as me? Who was dissing autohinting? \r\n\r\nMiguel used FontLab. \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-24 19:36:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I do wonder if Adobe released auto autohinted fonts because they don\u2019t
    expect most of them to be used for running text. The novelty types and scripts
    become illegible at text size, so there\u2019s no need to hint those manually.
    And the rest are fairly narrow text faces designed for print\u2014no amount of
    hinting is going to keep the fine details of Adobe Garamond from turning to blobs
    at sizes where Georgia reads perfectly. Out of the whole bunch only Myriad seems
    likely to get used at text sizes because it\u2019s loose metrics and wide design
    have proven themselves onscreen."
  created: '2010-08-24 19:41:29'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: '"Good Enough" : Acceptable to majority of users and worth frustrating the
    few who are stuck in 2002. Technology marches on.'
  created: '2010-08-24 19:47:02'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: I was there and perhaps I was reading into the comments? My wife would concur
    that my listening skills aren't always the best ;-)
  created: '2010-08-24 19:50:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It's probably important to remember that these were the first TrueType fonts
    Adobe has produced in-house, so although Miguel obviously knows what he's doing
    the organization isn't geared up (process and test-wise) to ship TTF. \r\n\r\nI'm
    more interested in Ethan's interpretation of the panel. Perhaps it's based on
    the Webtype trying to differentiate itself from the other providers via \u201Cquality
    over quantity\u201D? To be honest I don't think Roger went far enough to state
    that point. You kind of had to read between the lines. \r\n"
  created: '2010-08-24 19:50:50'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "<cite>I'm more interested in Ethan's interpretation of the panel. Perhaps
    it's based on the Webtype trying to differentiate itself from the other providers
    via \u201Cquality over quantity\u201D? To be honest I don't think Roger went far
    enough to state that point. You kind of had to read between the lines.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    applaud Roger for attempting to do everything right. 1) Reasonable, easy to use
    service, 2) Focus on quality, 3) Actual type designers working on the screen-font
    problem. Wow, and give it to me for 99\xA2! Umm, yeah. Others on the panel I thought
    were too \"academic\" about the state of webfonts. I don't really want to judge
    other's motives and we are all approaching this problem from different angles.
    I was by no means offended, but did find myself chuckling a few times. I've been
    working on the web developer side of the problem for over a year now and perhaps
    see things a bit differently than an invested type designer would."
  created: '2010-08-24 20:03:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">... the organization isn't geared up (process and test-wise) to ship TTF\r\n\r\nBut
    adobe, and so many others are geared up to define the spec, as if actual production
    and the spec from hell were two separate things.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I thank John for
    his kind comments about us raising the bar, and cannot help but comment that not
    even a tree frog could limbo between our bar and the slime created by everything
    from webkit to cleartype, it stinks, it sticks and it's all the founder's fault.:)\r\n\r\nOn
    auto hinting, I have now officially given up trying to prod Adam into demonstrating
    if fl autohinting according to his tutorial \"works\"... with so many other libraries
    to point to, case closed. \r\n\r\nThe broader picture of hinted \"custom web fonts\"
    (beyond our script), I think, is that wired is right, the web is dead.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2010-08-24 20:50:30'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Miguel probably has thoughts. I'll add mine:\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned elsewhere
    here, every foundry has to strike a balance between quality and opportunity. Every
    foundry has its own idea of quality and resources to achieve it. And every foundry
    could spend several years creating the best possible fonts, but not everyone will
    wait for them -- and many customers have their own perceptions of quality.\r\n\r\nAs
    you might imagine, we're not pleased that the current state of web fonts requires
    TrueType. Adobe has decades of accumulated skill and knowledge in producing very
    nice Type 1/CFF fonts. Back in (IIRC) 1996-97 we had Monotype create some \"superhinted\"
    TrueType fonts, which we released as \"WebType\", but as everyone knows, those
    fonts are time-consuming (= expensive) to produce. (I was doing TrueType hinting
    for Monotype around that time, so I understand the process -- at least as well
    as memory permits.)\r\n\r\nFor many reasons, Adobe can't put a lot of time and
    resources into TrueType production. (We're still looking forward to the days when
    CFF looks as nice as expected in Windows.) What we've done for our fonts on Typekit
    is found the best semi-automatic process we can (still a lot of work from Miguel
    and others here), which I think allows us to produce above-average quality with
    a realistic amount of effort, and is clearly superior to some other methods. Our
    skills might rest mostly with CFF, but some of that skill is also general; creating
    good font outlines and hint parameters are talents equally applicable to TrueType.\r\n\r\nRemember,
    too, that hints virtually don't matter on Mac OS at the moment. Even if it were
    possible for Adobe to allocate the necessary resources to produce really <em>really</em>
    nice TrueType fonts, that's still just for current Windows browsers. That's a
    significant percentage of browsers right now, but where will we be in just a couple
    years? We'll no doubt have nice CFF rendering with DirectWrite in new Windows
    browsers, and I don't know if anything will change for OS X. How much do we want
    to invest in <em>current-soon-to-be-old</em> environments?\r\n\r\nThe bottom line
    is this: Quality is always a big priority here, but there are many practical matters
    which weigh in. What level of quality is \"good enough\" for those people who
    want to use Adobe fonts on the web right now? We'll find out. Luckily, it's as
    easy as it's ever been to get bug fixes and improvements into a customer's hands."
  created: '2010-08-24 22:02:39'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: I seriously think it is fantastic that Adobe is taking this position. Bravo.
    Thanks for weighing in Christopher.
  created: '2010-08-24 22:29:06'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I don't know, man. Selling something half baked seems very unadobish to me,
    at least when it comes to fonts.
  created: '2010-08-24 22:38:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "FS> I seriously think it is fantastic that Adobe is taking this position
    \r\n\r\nMystery loves company, or like minds hint alike, your choice. :)\r\n\r\nCS>
    How much do we want to invest in current-soon-to-be-old environments?\r\n\r\nThis
    issue is now 21 years old and Adobe is still fighting font wars. Bravo! ;) \r\n\r\nI
    can't wait for this web fonts thing to go global, where I doubt TT technology
    can be replaced any more than it can be replaced in the situations we're seeing
    in the Latin market.\r\n\r\nBut light that rocket and I guess we'll see. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-08-24 22:52:30'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>I don't know, man. Selling something half baked seems very unadobish
    to me, at least when it comes to fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nTo quote Benjamin Braddock:
    \"No -- it's not. It's completely baked.\"\r\n\r\nWe're quite happy with what
    we've put out there, but to repeat, one can realize a nearly limitless improvement
    in quality proportional to the time and effort spent. If we wanted to spend another
    two years on our web fonts, no doubt they would look better. (And maybe in two
    years they will.)\r\n\r\nEveryone has probably noticed that new super-hinted TrueType
    fonts are few and far between these days. They take an extraordinary amount of
    time and effort. Does one get a return on that investment with a super-dense iPhone
    screen? Nope. So, just to be clear, when I talk about \"current-soon-to-be-old
    environments,\" I'm talking about old viewing environments, not font formats.
    I'm pretty sure 300 dpi laser printers and monochrome screens are not as important
    as they were 20 years ago, either."
  created: '2010-08-24 23:18:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Well, they ain't doing a proper job on about 30% of all computers out there.
    That's not nothing.
  created: '2010-08-25 01:57:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ethan: <em>Technology marches on.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, yes, it does, but significant
    numbers of users of technology do not march on. They stay in their trenches. I
    say this as someone who made the mistake of ignoring a lot of rendering issues
    for a long time in the belief that everyone would be using higher resolution screens
    very soon. Not only did that not happen, but many users are still working with
    software that wouldn't scale effectively even if they were using higher resolution
    screens.\r\n\r\nAs to \u2018good enough\u2019, we really don't know what constitutes
    that. What I'm reasonably sure of is that \u2018good enough\u2019 is not equivalent
    to what users will put up with or might consciously declare to be good enough.
    Where is the reading speed and comprehension testing? What is an \u2018acceptable\u2019
    level of degradation of reading speed and comprehension, relative to Verdana and
    Georgia as standards, in order to obtain the mere novelty of different fonts on
    the web?"
  created: '2010-08-25 03:13:56'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What is an \u2018acceptable\u2019 level of degradation of reading speed
    and comprehension, relative to Verdana and Georgia as standards, in order to obtain
    the mere novelty of different fonts on the web?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell said!"
  created: '2010-08-25 04:21:11'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>As to \u2018good enough\u2019, we really don't know what constitutes
    that. What I'm reasonably sure of is that \u2018good enough\u2019 is not equivalent
    to what users will put up with or might consciously declare to be good enough.</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    the whole point of using the term \"good enough\" is to describe something users
    <em>would</em> consciously declare good enough. At least that's my intention."
  created: '2010-08-25 06:38:47'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>I was surprised after taking a superficial look at the Adobe fonts on
    Typekit. They appear to be autohinted TTFs converted from CFF by FontForge.</em>\r\n\r\nEthan,
    it's not clear to me why you think that's what happened but the look you gave
    must have been superficial indeed because I didn't use FontForge at all. The Adobe
    fonts available through Typekit are TrueType fonts that were converted from carefully
    hinted Type 1 sources, with the help of FontLab. The conversion process within
    FontLab involves several steps which include removing all vertical glyph hints,
    setting the gasp table values and clearing the hmtx and vmtx arrays. The final
    TTF is actually built with AFDKO's MakeOTF, which assembles other tables such
    as GPOS, GSUB and name.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-25 07:31:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>I do wonder if Adobe released auto autohinted fonts because they don\u2019t
    expect most of them to be used for running text.</em>\r\n\r\nActually we do, otherwise
    we would probably just release the display designs. At 7, 8 or even 9 ppem the
    text designs definitely won't deliver the same reading experience as Georgia,
    but as you go up in the range they will perform better.\r\n\r\n<em>Out of the
    whole bunch only Myriad seems likely to get used at text sizes because it\u2019s
    loose metrics and wide design have proven themselves onscreen.</em>\r\n\r\nMyriad
    is actually a tightly spaced design. Its target size is around 16 point."
  created: '2010-08-25 07:34:35'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'CFF by FontForge: what''s that? What do I need to do to get it? Does this
    mean I have to spend a couple of days figuring out how to install FontForge again?'
  created: '2010-08-25 08:47:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">What is an \u2018acceptable\u2019 level of degradation of reading speed...\r\n\r\nYou
    \ all should have made this journey first, made decisions on stds and hammered
    on this man's opinions later.\r\n\r\nI knew i was talking to amateurs. Go to the
    other side of the isle, join Fink and Palin.\r\n\r\nNo cheers for you.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-25 10:58:38'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Miguel - My mistake. Typekit must be using FontForge to subset the font instead.
    It is unmistakable as the FontForge timestamp table (FFTM) is present in the fonts.
    I also assumed it because the em-square is 1000 units, which obviously is typical
    of CFF. TTF is usually 2048 (though I understand this no longer matters as much?)
  created: '2010-08-25 12:38:37'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Here's a <a href="http://www.fontsquirrel.com/webfont_comparison/myriadprolight.png">side-by-side
    comparison</a> of Adobe's autohinting vs. Font Squirrel's. I sampled Myriad Pro
    Light since the lighter faces seem to be more difficult to hint well. Neither
    is perfect. I think Adobe's looks a bit better at larger sizes, is a toss-up in
    the middle range, and Font Squirrel wins the smaller sizes.
  created: '2010-08-25 13:28:35'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: Interesting comparison Ethan. The inconsistencies at the x-height is something
    that we've identified in Myriad and other families. I already have a fix for it
    and the updates should be out very soon. Stay tuned.
  created: '2010-08-25 13:51:00'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "I was not present at the panel, but watched the discussion around it, mostly
    online, quite closely. The question I had after that was \u201CIf reading onscreen
    is important and growing, why did designing fonts expressly for low res display
    purpose never became a popular choice?\u201D\r\n\r\nThe biggest reason I could
    think for this is inefficiency. Why design new faces from scratch when you can
    hint existing ones?\r\n\r\nI was then thinking that this question could possibly
    be answered by tweaking the font\u2019s outline to make a \u201Cscreen\u201D version
    of it\u2014reducing contrast, increasing x-height, opening counterspaces, etc.\u2014then
    hint afterwards. This benefits the foundry because they can \u201Cscreen-version\u201D
    their best sellers rather than invest a lot of money and time in the design of
    a new screen family.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d like to hear this side of the argument be
    presented more. Or is it answered already?"
  created: '2010-08-25 18:22:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bram, TT hinting was designed to enable a single outline to be adjusted at
    specific device pixel-per-em (ppem) sizes to obtain the best bitmap image at those
    sizes. As applied to an existing print type, e.g. Times New Roman, hinting enabled
    legible and consistent shapes in low resolutions. As applied to a new design intended
    specifically for screen reading, e.g. Georgia or Verdana, hinting enabled excellent
    readability building outwards from a base size for which the design was optimised.\r\n\r\nThe
    kind of size-specific screen design to which you refer is certainly something
    we've been discussing with regard to web fonts. David Berlow has convincingly
    made the case that, given the vagaries of today's rendering methods and how they
    interpret or do not interpret hints, the only way to optimise text type for for
    screen (i.e. optimise legible shapes, spacing and stroke density) is to fit outlines
    to specific ppem grids. Here is a hastily made demonstration I put together for
    the CSS3 session at TypeCon:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SizeSpecificCompare_6375.png]\r\n\r\nSince
    a lot of the first offerings of web fonts are converted and autohinted PS print
    types, I started with Adobe's Caeciliae Regular font, converted to TTF and autohinted
    with FontLab. The size-specific outlines were made manually using a variety of
    FontLab shortcuts to get me close to the different ppem grids (including changing
    the UPM of each font so that the grid was always 100 units). [The usual caveats
    apply that looking at screenshots of subpixel rendering is not the same as looking
    at the same font(s) rendered natively on your own system. There are variables
    in gamma, device pixel size, ClearType tuning, etc. that affect this.]\r\n\r\nThis
    image demonstrates two things: the first is that the size-specific designs are
    cleaner, sharper, blacker, have more consistent stroke density, are better spaced
    for low res, and generally more legible and more readable; the second is that
    size-specific designs do not scale linearly, which introduces a major problem.
    If you have experience looking at websites on mobile devices such as iPhones,
    this problem should be quickly evident. If text is displayed with size specific
    fonts, zooming text will cause one of two problems: either a font designed for
    a smaller ppem grid will be used at a larger ppem grid, which will look at best
    clunky, like this...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zoomed_6669.png]\r\n\r\n...or,
    if the device is clever enough to somehow get the larger ppem size font for the
    zoomed size, the text will reflow because of the non-linear scaling of the type
    and its spacing. So, for example, you might zoom in on a paragraph in a web page,
    only to find that reflow has shifted much of that paragraph to somewhere else
    on the screen or, even, off the screen. That is presuming, of course, that the
    device has some way to get the appropriate ppem size specific design for the zoomed
    text. In fact, there is currently no way to reliably specify a ppem-specific design
    even for un-zoomed text, because there is no CSS measurement unit that actually
    corresponds to device pixels. [The px unit, which used to refer to device pixels,
    is being redefined in CSS3 as a pixel <em>at 96 dpi,</em> (i.e. an absolute size
    of 3/4 pt instead of a relative size) which means that specifying e.g. 11 px in
    CSS will only display the font at 11 ppem on a 96 dpi device; at 120 dpi it will
    display the font at 14 ppem, and so forth.]\r\n\r\nAfter discussing this with
    numerous people at TypeCon, I'm not optimistic that we're ever going to have a
    mechanism that will enable ppem size-specific outlines to be reliably used."
  created: '2010-08-25 19:39:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John's answer and very nice illustrations, describe how optimization may
    be accomplished via the ppm-specific idealizing of the outlines. When I did my
    experiments, it was only to show what was being lost by not having x-hints applied
    when rasterizing for users, (a whole long story, but trust me they are gone).
    It was never my intent that a raft of ppm sized outlines would be bundled up and
    made available to anyone, or that font management software of any kind should
    be trained to deal with this. \r\n\r\nIn addition, in the process of drawing size
    specific fonts as John shows, I discovered if users  have idealized per pixel
    fonts, they  want another weight to compensate for their tastes. Thus the Franky
    demo was designed, a raft of 48 outline fonts representing sizes and weights of
    a gothic font from 8 to 16 pixels. A specimen exists here somewhere. This led
    me to redouble my efforts to get variation technology back on the radar. A good
    thing, as it is what Ralph Levine is referring to the need for at the end in Dave
    Crossland's notes on the Fonts WG meeting. \r\n\r\nIt was never my intent to show
    anything other than what was being lost by Apple in 1999, and MS in '04 when their
    anti-aliasing techniques were released as Quartz and ClearType. FreeType still/now
    makes x hinting for effect possible. But, as John points out, idealizing a single
    outline causes it to become non-linear to itself. So using the idealized metrics
    then passes to the application, which must keep track of the non-linearity via
    the TT hdmx table. \r\n\r\nAnd application/OS using x and y hints on a font to
    produce the results John or I show would then be scaling according to what the
    per ppm instructions of the font said to do, per glyph, per width, presumably
    for a static page-based reading situation. In a zooming environment like the 365
    dpi iPhone, or 185 dpi Pre, this kind of optimization would not be required, so
    it would not be a problem.\r\n\r\nIt's almost like two different worlds, zooming
    places, and reading places. \r\n\r\nExamples of x hinting causing non-linear results
    are found on the Mac, I know, and probably continues on Windows when they are
    in aliasing modes. So, what hinting does to optimize reading in x at the cost
    of linearity, is hardly some kind of alien notion to the OS.\r\n\r\nBram>...why
    did designing fonts expressly for low res display purpose never became a popular
    choice?\r\n\r\nLittle market existed with the exception of bespoke device/OS fonts,
    like hinted Times or Mac and Win OSs, custom designed and hinted Prelude for the
    Palm Pre and etc. \r\n\r\nBram>Or is it answered already?\r\n\r\nIn a way, <a
    href=\"http://www.webtype.com/font/bentonsansre-family/\">yes</a>. We made screen
    optimized version of some of our more popular faces, and one new one, and hinted
    these. "
  created: '2010-08-25 21:41:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ''
  created: '2010-08-25 21:49:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Correction, Ralph Levine should be Raph Levien. Apologies. '
  created: '2010-08-25 22:59:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>This led me to redouble my efforts to get variation technology
    back on the radar. A good thing, as it is what Raph Levien is referring to the
    need for at the end in Dave Crossland's notes on the Fonts WG meeting.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam
    T introduced variants to the discussion in LA. I think what Raph was talking about
    was more generally a method to address something like optical size ranges (whether
    that be variants, a size feature, table, new OS/2 fields, or whatever). Adam's
    with you now, I think, in believing that something like GVAR or MM is necessary.
    I'm going to go look for any sign that this idea might find traction: discarded
    ideas do have a habit of coming round again in this business.\r\n\r\n[By the way,
    thank you for a clearly stated and eminently readable post. I kept wondering,
    is this really Berlow?]"
  created: '2010-08-26 01:12:56'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: 'Speaking as a type enthusiast: I miss multiple master fonts.'
  created: '2010-08-26 05:55:25'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "I'd like to give you an update of what's going on on our end. The x-height
    misalignments have been fixed. The filled up counters (which Mike pointed out
    over on <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/73272\">this other thread</a>) have
    been corrected. And the clipping reported by users on Mac browsers has been fixed
    as well. The new fonts are in QE right now and should go live early next week.
    In the mean time, I've uploaded some screenshots which you're welcome to look
    at. Here are the links:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adhesiontext.com/typophile/MyriadLight.PNG\">Myriad
    Light</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adhesiontext.com/typophile/MyriadBold.PNG\">Myriad
    Bold</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.adhesiontext.com/typophile/MinionRegular.PNG\">Minion
    Regular</a>\r\n\r\nOn all images, the <em>before</em> version is on the left,
    and the <em>after</em> is on the right."
  created: '2010-08-26 09:23:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Miguel, have you considered respacing the web versions for text sizes on screen?
  created: '2010-08-26 16:57:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: John, some respacing could be done with the CSS. Not perfect, but it would
    certainly help the smaller sizes.
  created: '2010-08-26 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Technical question: If Miguel were to space Myriad (or other) for use at
    small sizes wouldn't that become a new font as they'd still want the other for
    larger sizes? \r\n\r\nI suppose having optically spaced fonts for use anywhere
    (web, print, whatever) is the ideal."
  created: '2010-08-26 18:51:48'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>Miguel, have you considered respacing the web versions for text sizes
    on screen?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, we haven't. But I made many small changes to the outlines
    to improve the rasterization at small sizes. Things like nudging the f and t to
    get the crossbars to snap to the x-height.\r\n\r\nI agree with Tiffany. Some amount
    of tracking via CSS will be necessary. Which is not much different from what designers
    are already doing for print."
  created: '2010-08-26 21:23:12'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "I realize I'm being unnecessarily antagonistic, but Berlow tweeted yesterday
    that he'd like to see how a text face would compare with autohinting. Here is
    a quick comparison of his BentonSansRE. Flame away...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontsquirrel.com/webfont_comparison/bentonsans-re.png\">BentonSansRE
    - Font Squirrel vs. WebType</a>"
  created: '2010-08-26 21:33:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I would imagine you'd get similar results comparing any well designed *screen*
    font with autohinting vs hand hinting \u2013 try Verdana. For most of the autohinted
    stuff I've seen it's \"garbage in = garbage out\" and/or \"print font in = garbage
    out\"."
  created: '2010-08-27 06:53:13'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: "Sii - interesting, I suppose there is truth to that. But for what it is worth,
    the algorithm I'm using now isn't too smart yet: it strips out all previous hints
    and instructions, and recreates all the blues values. So from an autohinting perspective,
    I'm starting only with the outlines.\r\n\r\nAs a test, I ran a bunch of Adobe
    OTF <em>print</em> fonts through and here is the result:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontsquirrel.com/webfont_comparison/adobe_range.png\">Autohinted
    Adobe OTF</a>\r\n\r\nIt is clear that monolinear-ish sans serif fonts do best.
    The serif fonts have issues here and there: clogging counters, some unevenness
    at a few point sizes. So the conclusion I come away with is: Duh, don't use Nueva
    Std as a text face."
  created: '2010-08-27 13:19:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: How well does your autohinter preform for Greyscale rendering, Ethan?
  created: '2010-08-27 13:28:40'
- author:
    name: fontsquirrel
    picture: 118486
  body: Grayscale rendering looks like chunky barf. But misery loves company. Show
    me any font on Typekit or even the esteemed WebType right now that isn't horrible
    in grayscale. Is anyone even hinting for this anymore? I noticed that GASP table
    settings are all over the place too. It seems to be a dead rendering format that
    no webfont-er is willing to support.
  created: '2010-08-27 13:43:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Didn't we figure out just a month ago maybe as many as 1/3 of all users still
    see grayscale?
  created: '2010-08-27 14:14:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Typotheque is hinting for greyscale.
  created: '2010-08-27 14:15:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Berlow tweeted yesterday that he'd like to see how a text face would compare
    with autohinting\r\n\r\nUnder normal jounalistic conditions, you would ask to
    use software I know you know is commercial. Are you a journalist?\r\n\r\nUnder
    the conditions of a competitor, you could not be so superficial in what you test,
    and you'd only show <em>your own</em> text fonts because of the first point. Are
    you a competitor?\r\n\r\nIf you are trying to prove superficially that one style
    of one simple family made specifically for this purpose autohints well, we're
    a commercial foundry, and have lots of styles and glyphs to hint and license.
    Are you a client?\r\n\r\nIf you can only suppose the obvious, you might be malingering
    around legal bounds for the publicity. Are you a minkey?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-27 14:25:41'
- author:
    name: Christoph
    picture: 112770
  body: "Ethan, \r\nyour autohinter seems to do a pretty good job in basic hinting,
    and I think we all do our hand hinting *based* on an auto hinting.\r\n\r\nBut
    there is more than just autohinting one single (sans serif, rather light weight,
    rather simple) font and show A-Z.\r\n\r\nSerif/slab\r\nYour example already shows
    that serif faces look much worse.\r\n\r\nProblematic glyphs\r\nWhat about the
    usual suspects like \xDF, ae, OE etc? S already causes problems.\r\n\r\nFamily\r\nWhat
    about an Italic companion? Same behaviour? Stems jump at same sizes?\r\n\r\nBolder
    weights\r\nWhat about bolder weights?\r\n\r\nCritical PPMs\r\nYour waterfalls
    are ok, but perfect would be when we could exactly see the ppms of the stems'
    jumps.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-27 14:59:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I'm not sure how this could help to focus the problem on quality and \"good
    depending on the media\", but which face do you use for writing in your ordinary
    word processor application, and which do you use most to set simple texts outside
    layout page programs, and at the same time you find comfortable on screen? (I'm
    sorry this does not apply to iPhone or similar things, since I use only an iPod
    nano).\r\n\r\nI used to find myself using more or less  constantly Verdana and
    Georgia. I ended up appreciating Georgia\u2019s versatility (so much that I licensed
    Miller and tried to use its small capitals together with Georgia for eBook experiments.
    In the end, I bought Miller in Opentype OTF format rather than Truetype. I'm still
    unsure about that, since I have not enough familiarity with the behavior of Opentype
    on Windows).\r\n\r\nBut since I tested Cambria, I ended up using Cambia for almost
    any of the aforementioned applications.\r\nI would like to hear what you use,
    or use mostly\u2026"
  created: '2010-09-11 11:26:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "fontsquirrel -- <cite>I noticed that GASP table settings are all over the
    place too.</cite>\r\n\r\nCould you elaborate on this?\r\n\r\nYou could as well
    say \"there are OS/2 table settings all over the place\" which however is saying
    nothing at all. Every OT font contains an OS/2 table. Which OS/2 table of course
    holds some settings.\r\n\r\nOr are you speaking about <em>specific</em> settings?
    GASP contains settings (per PPEM size range) for a) greyscaling & gridfitting
    and b) ClearType & ClearType gritfitting, with a) and b) being independent of
    each other. So it is still not clear what you are saying."
  created: '2010-09-11 13:26:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: .
  created: '2010-09-11 15:36:16'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Ethan is right. Auto hinting is serious business.\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's Sarah
    in Windows GDI with ClearType enabled, <em>before</em> I ran her through the Font
    Squirrel auto hinter:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sarah_palin_nohint_3884.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere's
    after:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sarah-Palin_sm_4320.jpg]\r\n\r\nImpressive,
    but in Fontlab I got this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sarah_palin_5_5333.jpg]\r\nThe
    difference is obvious.\r\n\r\nNow, this is just one test, so it isn't necessarily
    indicative of anything.\r\nBut still, I think we've come a long way in a very
    short period of time.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-09-13 01:43:29'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: lol.
  created: '2010-09-13 04:22:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Sarahindipidy.
  created: '2010-09-13 07:45:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Are those real? (I mean the photos in general)
  created: '2010-09-13 10:50:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Are those real? (I mean the photos in general)\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    first one for sure! ;-)"
  created: '2010-09-13 13:05:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: But even the first photo is palin' in comparison to the real person :-)
  created: '2010-09-13 16:28:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "CL>But even the first photo is palin' in comparison to the real person\r\nExcellent."
  created: '2010-09-16 18:18:21'
date: '2010-08-24 19:22:14'
node_type: forum
title: Maybe autohinting ain't so bad after all?

---
