---
author:
  name: Antonio Cavedoni
  picture: 110947
body: "Hi everybody,\r\n\r\nI\u2019m looking for specimens of 20th century (or mid
  / late 19th century at most) \u201CGaramonds\u201D, that is, both typefaces inspired
  from Claude Garamond\u2019s work & typefaces inspired from Jean Jannon\u2019s work.
  I\u2019m especially interested in the latter ones as my research is mainly around
  Simoncini Garamond which we know to be of the second genre. Because of that, any
  current digital Garamonds (Adobe) or Jannons (\u0160torm) don\u2019t qualify. The
  various Berthold and ITC Garamonds also don\u2019t qualify. Here is a quick list
  of the ones I know exist:\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>\u201CGaramonds\u201D\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Stempel
  Garamond</li>\r\n<li>Sabon</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n</li>\r\n<li>\u201CJannons\u201D\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>ATF
  Garamond</li>\r\n<li>Monotype Garamond</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThen
  there are Ludlow Garamond and Garaldus by Nebiolo, which I think are more their
  own thing than either \u201CJannons\u201D or \u201CGaramonds\u201D. James Mosley
  <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/37259#comment-228271\">mentioned a Garamond
  drawn by Frederic Goudy for US Monotype</a> but I\u2019ve never seen it.\r\n\r\nAny
  other foundry / hotmetal / early photocomposition Garamonds I should be aware of?
  \r\n\r\nAs I mentioned above, scans of specimens would be most appreciated. If you
  happen to have any, please <a href=\"mailto:antonio@cavedoni.org\">get in touch
  with me</a> and we can arrange resolution / delivery.\r\n\r\nThank you very much!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: I don't have any specimens to pass along, I'm afraid, but Goudy's Garamond
    is available as <a href=http://www.p22.com/lanston/garamont.html>LTC Garamont</a>.
  created: '2010-08-25 01:02:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Does Linotype Granjon count?
  created: '2010-08-25 01:09:05'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Reed: thanks for that. Does anybody have a specimen of the original Goudy
    Garamond / Garamont?\r\n\r\nCraig: after reading the little historical note about
    it on the Linotype Web site, sure, it does qualify. Thank you!"
  created: '2010-08-25 05:15:35'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: Hello Antonio. Here some images that you have seen before, from a Lanston
    Monotype specimen book. I think Goudy catches the quirky qualities of the Jannon
    type better than anyone, and I find those roman figures fascinating.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Goudy
    Garamont rom bw - 500_3514.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Goudy Garamont
    ital det bw 500_5273.jpg]
  created: '2010-08-25 07:33:00'
- author:
    name: folengo
    picture: 112111
  body: "Hi Antonio,\r\na few months ago I picked up from a flea market a German book
    from 1943 set in Garamond Antiqua, does this interest you? I have some hi-res
    scans or, if you want, I could lend you the book.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/garmond_antiqua_typophile01_6280.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/garmond_antiqua_typophile02_6030.png]"
  created: '2010-08-25 13:24:12'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "James: that\u2019s great, I\u2019ll email you for higher-resolution scans
    if you have them.\r\n\r\nPaolo: that looks like metal Stempel Garamond (also,
    the spacing is kind of funny, look at \u201CWaterrache\u201D or \u201CUmformer\u201D.
    I\u2019ll email you as well. \r\n\r\nAnyone else?"
  created: '2010-08-25 23:24:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Antonio \u2014 Do you have a copy of the Fleuron V with the Beatrice Warde
    (Paul Beaujon) article? The final section of her article discusses and shows a
    number of early 20th century \u201CGaramond\u201Ds. And there\u2019s a sample
    of a wonderfully obscure copy cast by M. Olli\xE8re, Paris. I might have a scan
    around here somewhere.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-26 00:58:52'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Kent: I bought the <em>Fleuron Anthology</em> a couple of days ago \u2013\_it\u2019s
    supposed to have that article amongst others. I\u2019m waiting for it to show
    up in the mail. If you have already scanned it and would send the file to me,
    that would be most helpful as well, otherwise I\u2019ll just wait for my copy."
  created: '2010-08-26 06:30:00'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: http://typophile.com/node/36669
  created: '2010-08-26 08:21:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Antonio \u2014\_\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know the <em>Anthology</em>. If it reproduces
    the article <em>in toto</em>, then you should be fine. \r\n\r\nIn addition to
    a bunch of historical material, she shows a specimen of the <em>caract\xE8res
    de l\u2019Universit\xE9</em> composed at the Imprimerie Nationale (which attributes
    Garamond). \r\n\r\nThen there are showings of a raft of 20th-century versions:
    the ATF Garamond, the American Monotype Garamont (Goudy\u2019s), the English Monotype
    Garamond \u2014 all after the IN face (thus, derived from Jannon).\r\n\r\nThen
    there are three other 20th-century faces, perhaps more authentically Garamond-inspired:
    British Linotype\u2019s Granjon (George Jones), the Stempel Garamond, and an obscure
    cutting by the equally obscure French founder, M. Olli\xE8re of Paris.\r\n\r\nAll
    but the last are pretty familiar to typophiles. Here is an image of the M. Olli\xE8re
    \u2018Garamont\u2019:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fleuron-36_MOlliere_5763.png]\r\n\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    not obvious in this resolution, but there\u2019s something I find charming about
    the relative coarseness of this interpretation.\r\n\r\nIf your anthology doesn\u2019t
    happen to include all the illustrations, let me know offline and I can send a
    high-res scan."
  created: '2010-08-26 13:42:40'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Hey, what about <em>Le Garamont</em> of Deberni & Peignot (1914\u201323)?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1914-23_Garamont_D&P_3_4762.png]"
  created: '2010-08-26 14:38:08'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Good call Maxim! Although I can\u2019t see the attached image for some reason."
  created: '2010-08-27 10:46:12'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"I can\u2019t see the attached image for some reason.\"\r\nOdious hyphen
    in the filename."
  created: '2010-08-27 12:12:12'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Garamont_DP_3_4927.jpg]\r\nW. Pincus
    Jaspert, W. Turner Berry, A.F. Johnson. <em>The Encyclopaedia of Type Faces</em>,
    4th Ed. London: Blandford, 1991, p. 100.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-27 13:19:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Antonio! The Garamond-Antiqua in the sample above seems to have no kerning
    in it (in the word <em>Tyfingschwert,</em> there is no kerning of the y under
    the T. Also, the f is a narrow f. The font should have had an fi ligature in it,
    but it does not appear in this word! Also, the ch is a ch ligature. How odd then
    that that is used, but not the fi. You can see the narrow f again in <em>aufgenommen</em>
    and <em>Umformer</em>). I suspect \u2013 without having gone into the specimen
    books \u2013 that this is the Linotype version of Stempel's Garamond. I suspect
    that the hand-set Stempel Garamond would have looked better.\r\n\r\nAnd the <em>Fleuron
    Anthology</em> <strong>does</strong> include Warde's Garamond article!"
  created: '2010-08-28 11:11:40'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There was also a metal and photocomposition Garamond designed in East Germany
    by Herbert Thannhaeuser, for VEB Typoart: Typoart Garamond (or, at the time, it
    was probably just called <em>Garamond</em> or <em>Garamond-Antiqua</em>. It was
    designed in 1955, for metal type-setting (just col metal, I think. I think that
    it was adapted for film in the 1980s. Elsner & Flake have digital versions of
    it.\r\n\r\nAbert Kapr designed a Cyrillic companion for it, I suspect for metal
    hand-setting, (perhaps) in the 1970s.\r\n\r\nIt looks sort of Jannon-y to me.
    If you like Jannon, you'll love the cap italic Q! The lowercase a is totally whack,
    though."
  created: '2010-08-28 11:17:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Abert Kapr's \xBBGedanken zur Garamond Russisch\xAB was originally published
    in <em>Aus einem Brief an den schriftherstellenden Betrieb Typoart vom 9.9.1976.</em>
    I have the article in reprint, in the book <em>Albert Kapr, Schrift und Buchkunst:
    Aufs\xE4tze, Reden und k\xFCnstlerische Arbeiten.</em> Leipzig: VEB Fachbuch Verlag
    (1982). Pages 206\u2013211.\r\n\r\nHe writes there that Typoart received an order
    in Sept. 1975 for a Garamond Russian, from the Soviet photosetter 2 NFA. The design
    sample shown as part of the article in the book (just the Upright and Cursive
    faces) is dated 1978/1979. Which is funny, if the book is supposed to reprint
    an article from 1976! I guess these two illustration were not part of the original
    article.\r\n\r\nMaxim, do you remember if this means that the typeface was not
    released until 1982[?], but designed several years earlier?"
  created: '2010-08-28 16:02:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Dan, it was the other way round. Tannenhaeuser\u2019s Latin-only Garamond-Antiqua
    (1955\u20136) was a <em>Handsatz und Magazin-Matrizen-Schnitt</em> (<em>geschnitten
    in 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 20, 24, 28, 36 und 48 p.</em>), and Albert Kapr designed
    its Cyrillic version around 1982. The latter was developed for [Linotype?] photocomposition.
    I consulted its design\u2026 Not that I am particularly proud of what came out
    of it.\r\n\r\nIt is now shown on URW++, Elsner+Flake, and Ascender Web sites,
    under various names (e.g., Garamond N\xBA4 Cyrillic, Garamond N\xBA 5 EF, Typoart
    Garamond TB, Typoart Garamond TH\u2026). The <a href=\"http://www.urwpp.de/cgi-bin1/dalcgi/source/fontlistecg.htd?sprache=deutsch&dispcg=1&cyrillicId=82&xrpb-id=wd5a498c5ebb6225059987dbeae12bccd5a861fbdec\">
    Garamond N\xBA 4 Cyrillic</a> is credited, rightly or wrongly, to \u2018Ivana
    Koudelkova, (URW Studio)\u2019, but dated 1983 [?!].[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Garamond_No_4_Cyr_5198.png]"
  created: '2010-08-28 16:05:12'
- author:
    name: Antonio Cavedoni
    picture: 110947
  body: "Dan, Maxim: this Typoart Garamond is very interesting and because it\u2019s
    German it has a lot of relevance to my research (Simoncini Garamond was supposedly
    a joint design effort between Simoncini and Luwdig & Mayer). Does anyone have
    a specimen of the original metal version? \r\n\r\nAlso: I\u2019m torn wether I
    should include Vend\xF4me in this list or not."
  created: '2010-08-28 16:10:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Haha\u2026 at the end of the article (page 211 of the book mentioned above),
    Kapr writes (my translation\u2026):\r\n\"From the first sample prints, I would
    like to request that examples to be sent to Wadim Lazurski and Maxim Shukow, respectively.
    Both will evaluate the samples \u2013 in writing \u2013 and will suggest corrections,
    as well as give their assessments, which will be very useful for the dissemination
    of the new typeface in the Soviet Union.\"\r\n\r\nOriginal German text\u2026\r\n<em>Von
    den ersten Probe-Abz\xFCge bitte ich jeweils ein Exemplar an Wadim Lazurski und
    Maxim Shukow zu schicken. Beide werden die Probe-Abz\xFCge schriftlich beurteilen
    und Korrekturen vorschlagen bzw. eine Einsch\xE4tzung geben, die f\xFCr die Verbreitung
    der neuen Schrift in der SU sehr n\xFCtzlich sein k\xF6nnte.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess
    you got your copy in the mail, right?"
  created: '2010-08-28 16:13:28'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>Maxim, do you remember if this means that the typeface was not
    released until 1982 </em>[?]<em>, but designed several years earlier?</em></li></ul>\r\n\r\nDan,
    you are right. I remember that article. Yes, it might have been in the works for
    a long time\u2026 Vladimir Yefimov, a good friend of mine, wrote:\r\n\r\n\u2018[Around
    1978] we went to Dresden for the acceptance of the Cyrillic versions of their
    [Typoart\u2019s. <em>mZh</em>] typefaces for photocomposition that were being
    developed based on the intergovernmental agreement between USSR and GDR. According
    to the agreement, the USSR (the Poligraphmash plant, based in Leningrad) was to
    design the photocomposition equipment belonging to the Soviet <em>Kaskad</em>
    line of typesetters; the font development was supposed to be a joint venture of
    ONSh [Vladimir\u2019s shop. <em>mZh</em>] and Typoart, and the fonts be used by
    both parties, in parallel. We were going to create the Soviet versions of Times
    and Bodoni, both not to be mentioned by night, and the German comrades the Cyrillic
    extensions to some of their typefaces. Interestingly enough, we were told right
    off the bat that they would not use our phototypesetting hardware because they
    have a contract with Linotype, and they already used Western equipment fitted
    with the fonts (<em>Schrifttr\xE4gern</em>) they make themselves. As to our co\xF6peration,
    well, they would design those Cyrillics for us, in the fulfilment of that intergovernmental
    agreement, period. [\u2026] We then discussed two of the latest in a series of
    Typoart\u2019s Cyrillics. One of them was Magna, and I don\u2019t quite recall
    what was the other one. But for sure, it was neither Garamond, nor Timeless or
    Maxima. Was it Primus? I don\u2019t think its Cyrillic version was ever completed.\u2019"
  created: '2010-08-28 17:24:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Fantastic! This is outside of the scope of Antonio's question now. But the
    1989 <em>Fotosatzschriften</em> book from Kapr/Sch\xE4fer (produced, or at least
    set, at Typoart) shows the following four typefaces as having Cyrillic coverage:
    Garamond, Timeless, Magna, and Maxima [their order]. "
  created: '2010-08-28 17:51:09'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "The last design Kapr started developing a Cyrillic for\u2014and never finished\u2014was
    <a href=\"http://www.fonts4ever.com/portrait_typeface.php?id=1#familyName\">Prillwitz-Antiqua</a>
    (1987). Its first sketches looked like a total disaster\u2026"
  created: '2010-08-28 19:48:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Thanks Maxim, this talk has been tremendous fun!
  created: '2010-08-28 21:05:45'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: Thanks for remembering Kapr. He was quite a guy.
  created: '2010-08-28 21:34:23'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: 'I like ATF Garamond #3 and Amsterdam Garamond as well as Berthold Garamond'
  created: '2010-08-28 22:02:42'
- author:
    name: Stefan Seifert
    picture: 112624
  body: Me, too, Robert! No3 and Amsterdam!
  created: '2010-09-01 10:02:28'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: In 2005 I did some research into the origin of Garamond No. 4, URW++'s version
    of Typoart Garamond. Over the next few posts, I'll share some of my research and
    correspondence. I never did finish my research, but what I learned may be interesting.
    Maybe someone else will pick up the threads and finish working out the whole story.
  created: '2010-09-02 22:13:03'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "On 29 December 2005 I contacted URW++ about among other things the origins
    of Garamond No. 4. The next day, Peter Rosenfeld of URW++ wrote me back. Here's
    what he had to say about it:\r\n\r\nGaramond No. 4 or Typoart Garamond\r\nIn order
    to be able to explain the circumstances how Typoart's Garamond got into our hands,
    I have to go back two decades in time.\r\n\r\nBefore Germany's reunification,
    Typoart used to be the font foundry for Eastern Germany and Eastern Europe. Upon
    the introduction of digital type in outline format by URW (Peter Karow, a co-founder
    of the former URW company is the inventor and pioneer of digital outline fonts),
    Typoart contacted URW about our IKARUS software system, at that time the de-facto
    standard for all font manufacturers all over the world.\r\n\r\nURW licensed IKARUS
    to Typoart, and also provided the training for Typoart's font designers in Dresden.\r\n\r\nSome
    years later, round about the mid-eighties, Typoart offered digital versions for
    some of their fonts to URW, to be marketed by URW in the Western world. Font business
    was good at that time, and actually, I was in charge of the URW font department
    during the eighties and early nighties, so we accepted Typoart's offer and purchased
    some font data including their version of Garamond.\r\n\r\nGaramond, obviously,
    is one of the most beautiful classical typefaces, and we wanted to make available
    literally all existing versions (like Stempel's beautiful version with \"roughed
    contours\", Linotype's, Berthold's cleaned up version, Lettergieterij's elegant
    version, Letraset's display version etc).\r\n\r\nThat's the story about how we
    got hold of Typoart's very beautiful Garamond version.\r\n\r\nI know a few former
    Eastern Germany font designers like Erhard Kaiser and Ralph M. Unger, and I will
    contact them about any design details historically relevant, both for the Latin
    and the Cyrillic version of Kapr. Erhard Kaiser, a German Leipzig font designer
    (Fleischmann, Prokyon), worked for Typoart and was personally acquainted to famous
    Mr. Kapr."
  created: '2010-09-02 22:17:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'There''s some info about Typoart [[http://pingmag.jp/2007/10/05/veb-typoart-the-east-german-type-betriebsstatte/|here,
    too]]. '
  created: '2010-09-02 22:25:26'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Also on the 29th I found a paper that Joyce Yee and Grant Carruthers wrote,
    \ \"Beyond the Wall: Typography from the German Democratic Republic,\" for the
    2004 Friends of St. Bride Conference. Here is an excerpt from that paper dealing
    with Typoart, which mentions its Garamond:\r\n\r\nA Short History of GDR Typography\r\n\r\nFollowing
    WW2, type foundries in the Eastern (Soviet) Zone of Occupation, like all other
    major private enterprises, were taken over by the authorities and nationalised.
    \ In 1951 the East German government consolidated the long established foundries
    of Schelter & Giesecke AG Leipzig, Schriftgu\xDF AG Dresden, and Ludwig Wagner
    AG into one main state-run type foundry: VEB Typoart Dresden1. This foundry was
    to continue producing fonts until the end of the GDR in 1990, whereupon it became
    Typoart GmbH. It still operates today in the printing industry but no longer produces
    typefaces. Many of the influential names in GDR typography worked there.\r\n\r\nLeipzig
    and Dresden have a long tradition of fine printing and book arts which stretches
    back almost five hundred years. This tradition continued during the GDR, where
    the designers and typographers of what became known as the \u201CLeipzig-Dresden
    School\u201D worked to sustain the main printing and publication centres for the
    GDR. Leipzig in particular hosted many book design festivals (and still continues
    to do so today) such as \u201CThe Most Beautiful Books in the Whole World\u201D
    and the \u201CInternational Book Exhibition\u201D, both of which showcased the
    best of Eastern European and international work.\r\n\r\nVEB Typoart Dresden was
    led from 1951 by the typographer Herbert Thannhaueser until his death in 1963.
    Thannhaueser (an art director in the former Schelter & Giesecke foundry) oversaw
    the company in its formative years, when raw materials were scarce; many fonts
    from the former foundries were used and many display faces were developed, along
    with new versions of typefaces designed for Linotype and Monotype compatible typesetting
    machines. Later, Typoart focussed more on book faces and helped to develop many
    Cyrillic versions of faces for Eastern bloc countries.\r\n\r\nThannhaueser\u2019s
    own typographical contributions include versions of Garamond (1955) and Didot
    (1958), along with his own typefaces Erler Versalien (1953), Liberta (1956-1960)
    and Magna (1968). Typoart Garamond is currently still available as EF Garamond
    No. 5 from the Elsner and Flake foundry.\r\n\r\nThe typographer,  calligrapher,
    teacher and book designer Albert Kapr took over at Typoart in 1964. Kapr (1918
    - 1995) was a devout Communist who believed in the need for fine typography and
    book printing in the GDR. He wrote many books on typographic and printing history,
    and was particularly keen on the history and preservation of the German blackletter
    form2.\r\n\r\nKapr was the founding father of the Hochschule f\xFCr Grafik & Buchkunst
    (HGB) in Leipzig, which proved to be very influential in the development of graphic
    design and typography in the GDR.  Many of Germany\u2019s contemporary typographers
    and designers are alumni from the school.\r\n\r\nKapr developed Cyrillic versions
    of Thannhaueser\u2019s Garamond in the early 1980\u2019s and also designed Faust
    (1959), Leipziger-Antiqua (1970), Prillwitz-Antiqua (1971), and Magna Kyrillisch
    (1975)."
  created: '2010-09-02 22:29:43'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "I wrote to Joyce Yee on the 29th to see if she or Grant had learned anything
    further about Typoart or its Garamond. On 3 January 2006 she wrote me back. Here's
    the relevant part of her response:\r\n\r\nOur knowledge of Thannhauser's Garamond
    is limited and like you, found very little written about Typoart. We did meet
    someone at the conference who has original sample type specimens from Typoart
    - and he kindly let us have a look at it. However, I don't remember if he had
    the Garamond sample in his collection. You could try to contact him to find out,
    though I'm not sure if he knows any of the background information that you are
    enquiring about. His name is <a href=\"http://www.janmiddendorp.com/\">Jan Middendorp</a>.\r\n\r\nGrant
    and I have not pursued this subject any further, though Grant did write an article
    about East German design for Eye Magazine (http://www.eyemagazine.com/feature.php?id=123&fid=536).
    Though, its focus is on the design rather than typography."
  created: '2010-09-02 22:33:00'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Eliason, Thanks for the link. For everyone else, here's the paragraph from
    that article that references the Typoart Garamond:\r\n\r\nAt Typoart, the principle
    \u2018frugality and effectiveness\u2019 lead us to work with representatives from
    the printing enterprises to develop a type program that met all the important
    requirements: a Renaissance roman for literature, like Garamond, a classical,
    like Bodoni or Didot, then a slab-serif, for example Clarendon. There had to be
    something from each major style. Naturally also sans-serif, in different styles,
    like Helvetica and Futura. The \u201CZentrag\u201D would even request imitations
    of specific western-made typefaces they couldn\u2019t afford to license."
  created: '2010-09-02 22:38:29'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Here is a sample of URW Garamond No. 4 Cyrillic TCY Light:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/URW_Garamond_No_4_Cyrillic_TCY_Light_sample_page_20100902_toad_3486.png]"
  created: '2010-09-03 00:41:34'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Here is a sample of URW Garamond No. 4 Cyrillic TCY Light Italic:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/URW_Garamond_No_4_Cyrillic_TCY_Light_Italic_sample_page_20100902_toad_5356.png]"
  created: '2010-09-03 00:50:10'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "And lastly, here's a sample of URW Garamond No. 4 Cyrillic TCY Medium:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/URW_Garamond_No_4_Cyrillic_TCY_Medium_sample_page_20100902_toad_3621.png]"
  created: '2010-09-03 00:52:10'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Thank you for the excellent story, Rick. I am still mystified as to the URW\u2019s
    crediting the design of its Garamond N\xBA 4 to Ivana Koudelkova\u2026"
  created: '2010-09-03 01:13:05'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I\u2019ve just found a terrible-quality image of an early (1975?) version
    of Typoart Garamond Cyrillic, with the isosceles, delta- and lambda-like, capital
    \u0414 (De) and \u041B (El) in roman, and a kinky capital \u041A (Ka) in both
    roman and italic.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1975_Typoart_Garamond_4829.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-03 01:33:51'
- author:
    name: hhajdu
  body: "I\xB4m also a little curious about this topic.\r\nThese two scans are showing
    the Typoart Garamond italic for manual typesetting. (The versions for linotype
    and monotype hot metal machine composition are slightly different)\r\nThe bigger
    scan is 28p - the smaller one is 14p. There are also some subtile differences
    - look for instance at the \"a\" \"h\" and the old style figures.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ta28p_4588.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ta14p_3971.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    somehow the wider \"h\" seems not just a thing of the bigger cuts... on this page
    [[http://www.blog.druckerey.de/index.php?id=80]] (german) you will see some self
    explaining pictures made by the german printer Martin Z. Schr\xF6der. Two different
    width of the \"h\" in 10p, which you can\xB4t find in the Garamond specimen -
    confusing.\r\nBy the way - does somebody know, why there are no oldstyle figures
    in the digital versions of the Typoart Garamond? I ask myself, because in the
    east german Typoart \"Digiset\" specimen these figures were existing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-06 10:22:57'
date: '2010-08-24 23:27:02'
node_type: forum
title: 20th century Garamonds

---
