---
author:
  name: Jean Paul Beumer
  picture: 113283
body: "I'm looking for people who'd like to comment on this new design called Aubaine,
  in particular on the character width and inner space. I've been working on it for
  so long, I don't see it anymore.\r\nUp to now it's only ultra light.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Letterproef_4064.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Looks very good to me. /J/ could be a touch wider, and the structure of /M/
    makes it appear narrow at the top.
  created: '2010-08-28 18:55:36'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '"I''ve been working on it for so long, I don''t see it anymore." Your the
    designer. If you can''t see it anymore, take a break from it. To me it looks OK
    but not perfect.'
  created: '2010-08-28 22:24:17'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@Craig: thanks, I've widened /J/ and altered /M/.\r\n\r\n@Philips: exactly,
    I am taking a break and let YOU be the criticaster ;-) So, what is in your opinion
    \"not perfect\", please tell me so I can enhance the font.\r\n\r\nNew PDF to be
    posted soon."
  created: '2010-08-30 17:05:54'
- author:
    name: rolandstieger
    picture: 116766
  body: It looks really great! What was the inspirations for your font? Somehow it
    reminds me to art nouveau but transformed in a contemporary way. In my eyes the
    letters fit really well together - compared with all other letters the capital
    M looks a bit narrow.
  created: '2010-08-30 20:09:03'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks Roland, you've made my evening!\r\nI've already prepared a small article
    about this design:\r\n\r\nAubaine - pure wellness for stressed-out typographers\xAD\xAD\xAD\r\n\r\nLots
    of magazines and companies in the self-proclaimed field of mental and fysical
    wellness adore Helvetica, especially in light weights. Somehow it seems to be
    the one and only typeface with the right look and feel, possibly to do with width
    and roundness, but it lacks openness\xAD\xAD\xAD\xAD. The over-use of Helvetica
    in wellness magazines and packaging has a great disadvantage - they all look alike.
    It made me decide it was time for an alternative, a counter-movement if you will.\r\n\r\nI'll
    post another PDF with the altered /M/ soon.\r\n"
  created: '2010-08-30 20:40:08'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Letterproef_4370.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nPlease
    check out the 2nd PDF above."
  created: '2010-08-31 07:38:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Congrats, Jean Paul. This is an outstanding design. Really beautiful. I cannot
    wait to see it in bolder weights. Do you plan to build an italic style?\r\n\r\nI
    just think the K may use just one curve leg. Although these curves are the main
    characteristic of Aubaine, the K seems a bit unstable. I think it would be interesting
    to see a test with one leg curve and other straight. Or to make straight just
    the part where upper leg connects with the stem."
  created: '2010-08-31 12:12:12'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Igor!\r\nThanks for the compliment and yes, I am planning a complete family
    ranging from ultralight to ultrabold, italics, small caps et cetera. But first
    I need to get these basics right.\r\nI'll try the alterations on /K/ which you
    suggest."
  created: '2010-08-31 13:23:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I think Igor's right about the /K/ leg. I would also suggest trying a non-descending
    form of /J/ that is wide like the /U/ (perhaps as an alternate). I think that
    more expansive form might fit nicely with this design.\r\n\r\nOn your /G/, the
    beard/crossbar treatment doesn't seem quite right to me - it gets a little fiddly,
    loses the open simplicity of the font a bit.\r\n\r\nI also wonder if it would
    be good to lower the middle vertex of /W/ and /w/ just a tiny bit."
  created: '2010-08-31 16:41:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Good comments so far. I''m not sure I agree with Craig about the /w/ and
    /W/. But to see it would be best. And the legs of the /K/ and /k/ are too wavy.
    Why not just make it similar to the /R/? I like the descending /J/, but wonder
    how you''d solve a non-descending. And the crossbar on the /G/ doesn''t appear
    wide enough. I also like the previous /M/, but the new /M/ does work. '
  created: '2010-08-31 22:45:56'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thank y'all! I hope to be working on it this coming weekend. I'll soon repost.\r\n\r\nAs
    a matter of fact I am going to have some exposure in a Dutch branche magazine
    by the end of October, in particular about this type design, which I hope will
    boost sales. I have 54 days left to complete it and put it on MyFonts. Any pointers?"
  created: '2010-09-01 10:32:26'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Lowercase p and q - descenders too short (equate optically with g, I would
    say). \r\n\r\nVery nice design, but incorporating alternatives to make it more
    geometric (I mean glyphs like a single bowl a, single story g, crossbar t, etc.)
    may make this far more commercial. I find that there are hardly any good geo-sanses
    apart from the usual suspects."
  created: '2010-09-02 15:38:22'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Right.\r\n\r\nI've tried /k/ and /K/ with one straight leg, but it looked
    awful. It wouldn't fit in the overall design. What I did do, is use the same leg
    of /R/ on both /k/ and /K/, this does indeed look much better, less unstable.\r\n\r\nI've
    widened both /j/ and /J/, this too is much better and fits better in the design.\r\n\r\nI've
    removed the crossbar on /G/ as I originally designed. It opened up the character.\r\n\r\nOn
    /w/ and /W/ I've lowered the middle part just an itsy bitsy bit.\r\n\r\nYour final
    verdicts please!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Letterproef_6059.png]"
  created: '2010-09-02 15:42:09'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Ah, thanks Bert, our posts just crossed.\r\n\r\nI was in doubt about the
    descenders, but no-one commented. I'll take another look at them.\r\n\r\nGood
    idea about the alternate glyphs, but I'm not sure I've got enough time :-| Guess
    I'll put some work into the numerals and ultrablack first and then interpolate
    the two."
  created: '2010-09-02 15:49:52'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "It's interesting how many people here start designing typefaces with an hairline
    (essentially the outline of a font).\r\nMaybe that's why so many designs end up
    looking similar?\r\n\r\nJ-P\r\nHave you tried starting for example from a Regular
    weight or even a Bold weight where the real character and balance of a typeface
    evolve and where\"inner space\" becomes more of an issue? As I look at it now,
    although pleasant, it looks very similar to several typefaces out there and potentially
    *more* than similar. Again, it might be because it's only an hairline now. You
    sure you did enough research? \r\n\r\nIf it's for practice, it's another story,
    but if commercial... I'm just pointing out the possibility.\r\n\r\nGood luck,\r\n\r\nAngus"
  created: '2010-09-02 16:06:22'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Hi Angus,\r\nI see your point. This is not the first typeface I've designed
    (though none released). I *always* start out with the regular weight, except for
    Aubaine. In an other thread I was advised by Nick Shinn to design both extreme
    weights first, and interpolate from there. Quite a good tip I think: you'll have
    to make some design decisions you wouldn't have thought of normally. Interpolation
    won't just do the trick of course, quite some tweaking will need to be done.\r\nHowever,
    I do think this design is dissimilar enough to others, in altralight and will
    be even more so in heavier weights."
  created: '2010-09-02 17:28:34'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '<strong>Angus</strong>: I disagree from you. Surely, there is such an amount
    of sans these days that you can hardly achieve a high degree of originality in
    any new design. But even in this scenario, Aubaine has a distinct skeleton and
    tends to develop beautifully. I guess it will deserve a future commercial release.
    Of course, you must know some fonts I''m not aware about. Maybe you can refer
    to them so it''s possible to evaluate how similar the designs are.'
  created: '2010-09-02 18:07:47'
- author:
    name: Angus R Shamal
    picture: 120495
  body: "Jean Paul\r\nThat interpolation from two extreme masters \"tip\" is well
    known and been well used since MultipleMasters and since FontLab/Fontographer
    existed. But I think that's an excellent way of generating all the extra weights
    out of your design. I'm not sure it's the best way to start *Designing* your typeface
    though (there might be some exceptions). For example, it could be a good idea
    to put this outline aside for awhile and start with an heavier weight, or even
    the other heavy extreme if you wish, and see the possibilities and how it can
    mature and develop. Maybe a middle weight to bring you further. That way it will
    be easier for you to later see where the faults are and to tweak accordingly.
    It shouldn't be the interpolation that leads the design, you know what I mean?
    In the \"old days\", the outline/hairline/whatever weights were created much later
    after it was clear what the design or typeface was, and if it *could* use an hairline
    anyway. An hairline has become very popular nowadays for headlines, but in most
    cases it reflects the bare minimum of a typeface (really the skeleton), rather
    than defining it.\r\n\r\n@Freiberger\r\nI wasn't trying to criticize the design
    here. It's much to early to tell where it's going to, since all I see is (as you
    call it, and it's a good word-choice) a \"skeleton\". It really can go many ways
    and yes be quite pretty, but as I see it now, it looks like I've seen it before
    and recently in similar ways. Of course I think Jean paul should do his own research,
    but to me it's somewhere between the old Goudy Sans drawings, to Underware's Sauna,
    To the new Typejockeys' Aniuk, to Porchez's Parisine Plus, to Jeremy Tankard's
    drawings.. to...\r\nthere's nothing wrong in being inspired by other work, but
    it's usually in the details and problem-solving where people tend to copy the
    most.\r\n\r\nBut again, \"originality\" isn't the point I'm trying to make here.
    It's the process of the design and thought of a typeface and it's nature and character,
    rather than the technic to generate a whole family. It seems many designers rely
    too much on the software shortcuts and adapting their design process to make the
    software generation workflow easier, while I would almost say it should be the
    other way around.\r\n\r\nI hope I make sense."
  created: '2010-09-02 20:21:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'd try the lowered W/w vertex lowered less than that - what I was proposing
    was really just an adjustment to avoid what I saw as an optical illusion of the
    vertex riding high. In other words, I think it might be best to make it optically
    even at the midline, which may require it being mathematically just a touch lower
    than the midline. But maybe I'm off here...\r\n\r\nI think that new style of /J/
    shows promise, though right now it looks like it's falling rightward.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure you're done with the /G/ but I think it's changing in a positive and
    interesting direction for this font.\r\n\r\nThat reversal of the /K/k/ leg is
    better, but I'd argue that those letters still come across too wavy."
  created: '2010-09-03 04:35:04'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@Angus:\r\nI can elaborate, but I won't. I'd like to keep this post *about*
    the design, not *how* to design. If you'd like to discuss type design theory,
    please start a new thread!\r\n\r\n@Craig:\r\nI see what you mean about /W/w/.
    But I must say I kinda like it this way!\r\nI'll take another look at /J/ and
    /K/k/; perhaps un-wave the diagonals (but not straighten them) will do the trick.
    I've removed the crossbar on /G/ to open it up."
  created: '2010-09-03 07:07:32'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>Angus</strong>: I understand your point. Anyway, I still don't think
    features like interpolation and MM produces very relevant effect on conteporary
    trends of type design. But I'll avoid further comments because this would become
    off-topic.\r\n\r\n<strong>Jean Paul</strong>: I'm minory here because I prefer
    the first J style. I agree with Eliason about W and K. Remaining glyphs are very
    good."
  created: '2010-09-03 12:45:28'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "For the moment I've left/K/k/J/W/w/ as they are.\r\n\r\nPlease check out
    the 4th PDF above. It shows a few characters in all weights.\r\nI'm not sure about
    the thick-thin connections in the ultrablack; I feel they're very pronounced but
    for smaal prints it's very clear.\r\n\r\nYour thougts about the design again please!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Letterproef030910_4937.png]"
  created: '2010-09-03 18:43:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: " <em>I'm not sure about the thick-thin connections in the ultrablack; I feel
    they're very pronounced but for smaal prints it's very clear.</em>\r\n \r\nI think
    the next decision to make is what is the target size for this font. (That will
    also help decide the best length for the descenders.)"
  created: '2010-09-03 19:46:35'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Some new characters in ultralight, medium and black (see 5th PDF above).
    Not there yet. Love the /b/...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/proof040910_3536.png]"
  created: '2010-09-04 18:47:31'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Please check out the 1st lower case black draft in the 6th PDF above.\r\n\r\nI
    see now that the 'tail' of /a/ needs to be shorter and the bowl needs to be higher.\r\nPerhaps
    /g/ is not black enough? Is /t/ too wide?\r\n\r\nAll comments appreciated!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aubaineblacklc060910_3545.png]"
  created: '2010-09-06 09:52:22'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Some more adjusting the ultra black weight was certainly neccesary! I find
    that interpolating is a great help determining the right shapes and stroke weight.\r\nPlease
    see the 7th PDF above.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aubaineproof080910_4219.png]"
  created: '2010-09-08 08:31:15'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "...and the first rough draft of ultra light italic (8th PDF).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aubaineitalicproof080910_4550.png]"
  created: '2010-09-08 10:11:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This one is a winner.\r\nI'll try to make time for a full crit.\r\nBut what
    I can say now is that the \"g\" needs help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-19 15:34:50'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Gee, thanks Hrant!\r\n\r\nPlease hold your crit for a day or two if you will,
    I've been working on it but haven't posted a new PDF yet."
  created: '2010-09-19 19:30:59'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Please check out the 9th PDF above for a closer view.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AubaineProof200910_4441.png]"
  created: '2010-09-20 09:42:21'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "A slightly more extensive PDF above added.\r\n\r\nAll comments still highly
    appreciated!"
  created: '2010-09-24 13:59:34'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Another PDF added, all caps.
  created: '2010-09-24 14:31:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jean Paul,\r\nYour Aubaine typeface reminds me of the struggles I went through
    a few years ago with my own \"Now Sans\" which is yet to be released.  I thought
    you might benefit from critiques I received here on Typophile 5 years ago:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16147\r\nhttp://typophile.com/nowsans\r\nhttp://typophile.com/nowbold\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nYours
    is looking well on its way, keep up the good work!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:54:51'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks Chris. You're right, I am struggling. I'll make sure to check out
    those posts. And thanks for the positive payoff!\r\n\r\nAny idea when Now Sans
    is going to be released? It looks great!"
  created: '2010-09-24 18:26:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I have several typefaces in the works and don't know which will win the race
    first. it is my cross to bear :-)
  created: '2010-09-24 18:30:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, remember how Matthew Carter at your type critique a few years ago
    said of your Now Sans, \"finish this one first\"? Not that he knows anything about
    type :) I agree with him and Jean Paul. It's awesome. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-25 01:12:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rock-star-poster01_6019.jpg]'
  created: '2010-09-25 01:23:32'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: This is great, but I hope I can persuade you to change the amputated Q. In
    ultralight it is acceptable, in medium it is somewhat awkward, in black it looks
    ridiculous and makes unreasonable demands of line spacing.
  created: '2010-09-25 07:00:14'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Thanks Kevin! Q is problematic at the moment, you're right, you're not the
    first to notice. It'll be addressed.
  created: '2010-09-25 08:25:48'
- author:
    name: Sal_Randazzo
    picture: 128377
  body: "Hi Jean Paul,\r\n\r\nGreat start to Aubaine.\r\n\r\nI agree with Hrant that
    the g needs help... possibly making the bowl stroke closer to closed. The ear
    of the lowercase g looks out of place with the slight wavy curve you are designing
    with many of the other letter strokes... you might want to try a slight wave to
    the ear stroke of the lower case g. The lower case g looks slightly narrow comparing
    it with the relative overall widths of the other lower case letters.\r\n\r\nI
    also feel that the black lower case weight is a little too dense with some small
    closed counter forms like the lower case e. I also feel that there is to much
    contrast between the thick to thin strokes.\r\n\r\nRegards, Sal"
  created: '2010-09-25 14:52:49'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Before I begin spacing, I noticed two comments that were about character shapes,
    or rather, the obvious differences between the ultralight and black. I thought
    I'd better handle that first... So, after a day of redrawing most of the glyphs,
    I think I've achieved a more consistent feel - the ultralight and black fit better
    together. Please check out the PDF.
  created: '2010-09-26 19:07:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: The R looks high-waisted in the black weight.
  created: '2010-09-26 19:20:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "***Promoted to the front page!***\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-27 03:15:00'
- author:
    name: Robert Trogman
    picture: 111573
  body: I guess I'll still use ITC Goudy Sans
  created: '2010-10-02 07:46:33'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: Wowzers. I'd love to add something constructive to this thread, but I don't
    think I could. This is fantastic work, very well done!
  created: '2010-10-02 13:51:08'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@Robert: Although Goudy Sans is in my eyes completely different, everybody's
    free to use whatever font they like :-)\r\n\r\n@CaleD: Thanks mate! Please revisit
    this thread in a couple of days for some more updates. Perhaps you'll see something
    then!"
  created: '2010-10-02 15:12:06'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Taking a little break from Aubaine [[http://typophile.com/node/67608|here]]...
  created: '2010-10-10 12:56:43'
- author:
    name: Clair Dunn
    picture: 120849
  body: "Jean Paul --\r\nAn elegant face in the lighter weights -- but two things
    hit me right off:\r\n\r\nOne - the /G/ seems to list to the left (Aubaine Extra
    Light). I think the shape of the bottom curve as it relates to the baseline may
    be responsible for this.\r\n\r\nTwo - the bowl of the /P/ may be too large (or
    the stem too short! :)\r\n\r\nI saw these two \"issues\" immediately in your first
    showing at the top of the thread, and both are still there now in the light version.
    The problem with the /G/ disappears in the heavier versions, but the /P/ issue
    remains. In your regular weight posted on the 20th, the /P/ almost seems to be
    riding above the baseline.\r\n\r\nThese are *minor* points of note in this very
    clean and relaxed face.\r\n\r\nIt's still fascinating to me to sense the change
    of feel in a typeface as it goes from light to extra bold. Really different animals
    at the extremes.\r\n\r\nThanks for this.\r\nClair\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 10:31:33'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks Clair! \"Relaxed\" is just what I'm going for (not just in design
    ;-))!\r\nYou're absolutely right about the \"different animals\". I addressed
    this some time ago by redrawing the black weight with more consideration for the
    inner white shapes so it's much more similar and in balance with the ultralight.
    I still haven't posted a new PDF though, it's coming soon!\r\nGood point about
    P and G, which was bugging me from the very beginning.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 12:03:41'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Lovely. Really beautiful stuff. Proportions and shapes are really polished.
    \r\n\r\nObservations: \r\nBlack g needs more help. To me it looks quite bottom-heavy.
    I've found that open-tailed design almost impossible in black weights before.
    I think taking weight of the top of the tail will allow more space under the bowl,
    and possibly also allow the bowl to be taller, but you'll need to try every imaginable
    way of distributing the weight until it clicks. \r\n\r\nx may be a bit wide across
    the weights. k also perhaps in the light and medium. And it looks slightly too
    curvy to my eye. Black k looks a bit high-waisted and possibly too narrow.\r\n\r\nAngled
    foot of K and R doesn't seem to match other perpendicular-cut terminals, would
    you reconsider that?\r\n\r\nBlack U looks a tiny bit light. Making it wider may
    allow more weight on the stems without disrupting the balance.\r\n\r\nThere's
    lots of good stuff going on here. I'm enjoying this one."
  created: '2010-10-14 22:32:35'
- author:
    name: Martijn van Berkel
    picture: 116039
  body: "Looks nice. One thing that caught my eye was that the bold \"a\" differs
    too much from the lighter versions.\r\nThe \"g\" is a little compressed at the
    top. The Q is too fat at the top horizontal part.\r\nThe V and W are higher than
    the other chars.\r\nAlso try a large line spacing in the sample text.\r\n\r\nGa
    zo door en succes. :)"
  created: '2010-11-03 12:08:00'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Please tell me you haven't thrown this one in the bin... I think this could
    be a bestseller, if you'd only finish it :-)
  created: '2011-11-27 11:24:06'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "No no, it's not in the bin!\r\nIf only I had more time ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-28 07:48:39'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Finally I had some time to continue...\r\nFor some reason I can't upload
    any PDFs, so please check them out here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineUltraLightglyphs.pdf\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineSemiLightglyphs.pdf\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineMediumglyphs.pdf\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I noticed /=/ and /\u20AC/ haven't interpolated properly..."
  created: '2012-10-15 08:53:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Looking good! :-)
  created: '2012-10-15 13:47:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is looking good. The design idea is carried through well, so it has
    a distinct and appealing flavor.\r\n\r\nThe serpentine curve of the /N/ diagonal
    feels backwards to me - wouldn't it fit better with the others if the curve bent
    to make the joins more open rather than more pointy? \r\n\r\n/Q/'s tail seems
    a bit lifeless.\r\n\r\nI might make the caps a tiny bit bigger.\r\n\r\nSomething's
    up with your semilight Euro and Yen crossbars."
  created: '2012-10-15 14:52:37'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks guys. \r\nI too noticed that the caps are just a bit tiny, especially
    in small sizes. Haven't decided to change it yet... I might though ;-)\r\nI'll
    take another look at /N/ (/M/ too as a natural course of action) and /Q/.\r\n/\xA5/,
    /\u20AC/ and /=/ haven't interpolated into SemiLight quite properly. I'll look
    into that as well."
  created: '2012-10-16 08:32:52'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "New proof here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineUltraLightglyphs.pdf\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineSemiLightglyphs.pdf\r\nhttp://www.omashuisje.nl/AubaineMediumglyphs.pdf\r\n\r\nChanges
    made in UltraLight:\r\n/M/ /N/ /Q/ /\xDF/ /\uFB01/ /&/ /@/ /\u2122/\r\n\r\nChanges
    made in Medium:\r\n/e/ (+ diacritics) /M/ /N/ /Q/ /\xDF/ /\uFB01/ /&/ /@/ /\u2122/
    0123456789\r\n\r\nQuestion: are the number too fat?"
  created: '2012-10-17 13:58:21'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Changed /@/ again...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/At-new-semilight_4675.png]"
  created: '2012-10-18 14:05:10'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "Cool @\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-23 05:53:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, \"@ is for Andromeda\"!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-23 06:01:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: IMO it's too tightly wound for this face, and you'd be better off building
    something from a one-story /a/.
  created: '2012-10-23 23:07:37'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "A one-story /@/ has been added as a .salt.\r\nFinishing oldstyle figures
    and smallcaps as we speak.\r\nNew PDFs to be posted soon."
  created: '2012-11-03 11:06:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Note that the ideal \"@\" is one where you don't see an \"a\" in it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-03 14:09:28'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Some minor changes made. Please feel free to comment. \r\nYou'll find the
    most recent proof at http://www.omashuisje.nl/Aubaine_proef.pdf"
  created: '2012-11-11 13:57:27'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I like the hurricane @ but I think the lower arm is now a bit cramped and
    could stand to sweep below the baseline some.
  created: '2012-11-11 16:40:16'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Good one, Cerulean, thanks! It'll be adjusted!
  created: '2012-11-12 09:29:19'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I find on second look that I have committed the error of judging a pdf onscreen
    without zooming enough, and my observation was of a rendering distortion. But
    if you found it helpful anyway, great.
  created: '2012-11-12 14:59:49'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: It should work both on screen as in print ;-)
  created: '2012-11-12 18:41:47'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Since this morning Aubaine is finished. It's become a lovely design in seven
    weights with 586 glyphs each. I'm proud of it! E-mails to online foundries have
    been sent.\r\n\r\nI'd like to thank you all, without your feedback I would never
    have made it this far!\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nJean Paul"
  created: '2012-11-17 10:53:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Congrats and good luck!
  created: '2012-11-17 15:08:29'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: Congrats!
  created: '2013-02-05 07:12:20'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Just saw it on MyFonts. Great job!  \r\n\r\nBTW, I also like your Eastburgh
    a lot. The \"quirkiness\" is so well integrated in the font that it doesn't disturb
    the overall picture at all. "
  created: '2013-02-05 10:44:21'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks Eliason, LexLuengas  and Catharsis!\r\n\r\nAubaine is available from:\r\n\r\n[[http://omashuisje.nl/shop/|Our
    own site]]\r\n[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/atelier/aubaine/|MyFonts]]\r\n[[http://www.fontspring.com/fonts/omashuisje/aubaine|FontSpring]]\r\n[[http://fontdeck.com/typeface/aubaine|FontDeck]]\r\n[[http://www.youworkforthem.com/font/T4111/aubaine|YouWorkForThem]]\r\nFonts.com
    (coming soon)"
  created: '2013-02-06 10:36:44'
date: '2010-08-28 18:24:29'
files:
- filename: Letterproef_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Letterproef_0.pdf
- filename: Letterproef_1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Letterproef_1.pdf
- filename: Letterproef_2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Letterproef_2.pdf
- filename: Letterproef 030910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Letterproef 030910.pdf
- filename: proof040910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/proof040910.pdf
- filename: aubaineblacklc060910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/aubaineblacklc060910.pdf
- filename: aubaineproof080910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/aubaineproof080910.pdf
- filename: aubaineitalicproof080910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/aubaineitalicproof080910.pdf
- filename: AubaineProof200910.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/AubaineProof200910.pdf
- filename: Aubaine tekstproef_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubaine tekstproef_0.pdf
- filename: Aubaine tekstproef CAPS_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubaine tekstproef CAPS_0.pdf
- filename: Aubainetekstproef26sep10_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubainetekstproef26sep10_0.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Aubaine

---
