---
author:
  name: blokland
  picture: 110274
body: "On <em>Typophile</em> the technical aspects of the em-square have been repeatedly
  discussed, but the origin of the term seems to be unclear. I did some research and
  developed some models, of which I discuss and show a couple here. Because of lack
  of historical documentation, to a certain extend speculation is in this case unavoidable.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/m-square_Jenson_5503.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
  illustration above shows the relation between the height and the width of the capital
  N from Jenson&rsquo;s roman type applied in <em>Epistolae ad Brutum</em> from 1470
  using a repetition, i.e. fence, of n&rsquo;s. The counters in the m are in Jenson&rsquo;s
  type identical to the one in the n. The height of the N also fits within the stems
  of the m and subsequently the N fits in a square. The illustration below shows the
  same relation for Griffo&rsquo;s capitals from the <em>Hypnerotomachia Poliphili</em>.
  On top and rotated left is the m, at the bottom a repetition of n&rsquo;s.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/m-square_Griffo_5373.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This
  &lsquo;m-square&rsquo; is definitely something else than what is called &lsquo;em-square&rsquo;
  or &lsquo;em&rsquo; in contemporary typography. In digital typography, the em-square
  is a &lsquo;real&rsquo; square based on the body size, normally the distance from
  the top of the ascender to the bottom of the descender and the &lsquo;em&rsquo;
  equals therefore the body or type size. In foundry type casting on the edges of
  the body was technically not possible and hence the distance between the top of
  the ascenders and the bottom of the descenders was somewhat smaller than the body.\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Nevertheless
  Moxon writes in <em>Mechanick Exercises</em> that &lsquo;<em>By Body is meant, in
  Letter- Cutters, Founders and Printers Language, the Side of the Space contained
  between the Top and Bottom Line of a Long Letter</em>&rsquo;, which is annotated
  by Davis and Carter as being &lsquo;<em>Not a good definition because letters are
  often cast on a body larger than it need be. It is the dimension of type determined
  by the body of the mould in which it was cast</em>&rsquo; (Joseph Moxon [Herbert
  Davis, Harry Carter, ed.], <em>Mechanical Exercises</em> [New York, 1978]). \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In
  digital type ascenders and descenders can stick outside the body without any (physical)
  problem. Parts will probably stick outside the em-square anyway, like for instance
  the diacritics on capitals. Nevertheless, some designers will basically copy the
  structure of foundry type, just to prevent clipping when zero line spacing is applied.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nIn
  the times of the hot metal and photographic composing machines, the em-square was
  a rectangle that could be square, depending on the design. Vertically the proportions
  were defined by the body size and in horizontal direction by the width of the widest
  character, which could be the M or W, which was divided in a certain number of units.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Matrix_case_6218.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAlthough
  the term em-square is often related with the character width of the capital M, which
  provided the standard for the (division into units of the) em for composing machines,
  in for instance Monotype fonts the M is not always the widest letter; of a type
  family for instance the roman capital M could be placed on 15 units and the italic
  capital M on 18 units, as shown in the schematic representation of a matrix case
  above. The capital W seems to have been placed by definition on eighteen units and
  obviously that was part of the original idea: &lsquo;<em>[\u2026] it was decided
  that the lower case i, l, full point, etc., could be commonly allotted a thickness
  of five units, the figures and average letter-thickness nine units, and the capital
  W, em dash and em quad eighteen units</em>&rsquo; (R.C. Elliot, &lsquo;The &ldquo;Monotype&rdquo;
  from infancy to maturity&rsquo; <em>the Monotype Recorder</em>, No. 243 Vol. xxxi
  [London, 1931]). The W of for instance of Monotype Poliphilus is much wider than
  the M. \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On the other hand, in <em>The Monotype
  System</em>, &lsquo;<em>a book for owners and operators of Monotypes</em>&rsquo;
  from 1912 one can read that: &lsquo;<em>The designer of Monotype faces divides the
  basic character of the font (the cap M) into eighteen equal parts, using one of
  these parts as his unit of measurement in determining the width of all the other
  characters in this font</em>&rsquo;. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nMoxon mentions the &lsquo;m Quadrat&rsquo;:
  &lsquo;<em>by m thick is meant m Quadrat thick; which is just so thick as the Body
  is high</em>&rsquo; and mentions &lsquo;n Quadrat&rsquo; as &lsquo;<em>half as thick
  as the body is high</em>&rsquo;. In <em>The history and art of printing</em> from
  1771, m and n Quadrats and related variants as &lsquo;Three to an m&rsquo; and &lsquo;Five
  to an m&rsquo; are blanks used for indenting and spacing. In <em>An introduction
  to the study of bibliography</em> from 1814, the function of the m and n Quadrats
  is described accordingly and furthermore as &lsquo;<em>the square of the letter
  to whatever fount it belong [\u2026] n quadrat, is half that size</em>&rsquo;. \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If
  m and n stood and nowadays em and en stand for respectively the full and half size
  of the body, where does the term come from? In Monotype fonts the M is not always
  the widest letter, but in Moxon&rsquo;s engraving in which he &lsquo;<em>exhibited
  to the World the true Shape of Christoffel Van Dijcks [\u2026] Letters</em>&rsquo;
  the width of the capital M equalizes the height of the body. The N, however, has
  not been drawn of half the width of the M. Moxon notes &lsquo;<em>that some few
  among the capitals are more than m thick</em>&rsquo; and he lists \xC6, \u0152,
  Q &lsquo;<em>and most of the Swash Letters</em>&rsquo; as examples.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
  question remains that if the sizes of m Quadrat, m-square and em-square are based
  on the width of the capital M, why are they not labelled M Quadrat or M-square or
  EM-square by Moxon and the other named authors? Do the terms &lsquo;m&rsquo; or
  &lsquo;em&rsquo; have a different historical background?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Em_Jenson_4567.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
  term &lsquo;m Quadrat&rsquo; is surely older than its use in <em>Mechanick Exercises</em>.
  A hypothesis: let&rsquo;s assume for a moment that the origin of the (e)m-square
  lays in the lower case m. The relation with the n-square seems to make much more
  sense then, because the width of the capital N is never half the width of the M.
  The proportions of the m seem to have been the measure of all &ndash;or at least
  a many&ndash; things in Renaissance type. If a square is based on the outside stems
  of the m of Adobe Jenson and this &lsquo;m-square&rsquo; is used to calculate a
  golden section rectangle (1:1.618) and the height of this rectangle is used for
  creating a new square, than the ascenders and descenders of (Adobe) Jenson&rsquo;s
  type seem to fit perfectly into the latter, as shown above. This square is an extension
  of the &lsquo;m-square&rsquo;: an &lsquo;extended-m&rsquo; or em-square, although
  it is perhaps more likely that &lsquo;em&rsquo; originates from the rotated m, which
  reads like an E, in combination with the normally positioned m. If subsequently
  a square based on the x-height is made and extended to a golden section rectangle,
  than the proportions of the descenders can be determined.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Em_Gutenberg_5542.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAssuming
  that Jenson treated his roman type as a variant of the Textura, it is quite probable
  that Gutenberg&rsquo;s type shows the same relation between the &lsquo;m-square&rsquo;
  and the length of the ascenders and descenders. Gutenberg&rsquo;s Textura from his
  42-line Bible (see illustration) indeed shows the relation as in Jenson&rsquo;s
  type. The length of the descenders can in this case be defined using a root 2 rectangle.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: .
  created: '2010-08-30 20:20:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Frank> A hypothesis: let\u2019s assume for a moment that the origin of the
    (e)m-square lays in the lower case m.\r\n\r\nWhy not assume the origin of the
    lowercase m width is in the em-square instead?"
  created: '2010-08-31 12:18:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Frank, I am guessing that the name came into being to label to spaces. An
    \"em quad\" in foundry type is a *space* that is square, and an \"en quad\" a
    space that is half-a-square wide. All foundry type is the same height, the body
    height, so the question is just what are you going to call a square space, which
    is the body height wide\u2014and what you are going to call half that. They both
    have boxes in the type case, so they need a name.\r\n\r\nThe \"em\" and \"en\"
    are likely just convenient names, not tied to exact widths of the m and n. Since
    the M is also approximately square, you could take \"em quad\" as referring to
    that as well, but the reason for using the lower case \"m\" is probably because
    the lower case \"n\" is roughly half that, whereas the upper case N is not usually
    roughly half of the M. \r\n\r\nThe em quad is also called a \"mutton\" and the
    en quad a \"nut\" space, but I don't think you will learn much by taking pictures
    of sheep and nuts and measuring them :) I don't think the measurements of Jenson
    etc. are that relevant either. I suspect it is not named because of any exact
    measurement, but for ease of naming, and the rough widths of the m and n are good
    enough to suggest the names.      "
  created: '2010-09-01 00:22:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Em quad from m or M, En quad from n or N, fine.\r\n\r\nWhat ever happened
    to the W quad and the V quad?\r\n_______________________________________________________\r\n\r\nBe
    Careful Driving Elephants In Small Foreign Garages\r\n\r\nVillans Usually Turn
    Space And Run\r\n\r\nWhat was that third one?"
  created: '2010-09-01 02:13:09'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2010-09-02 18:31:01'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: .
  created: '2010-09-03 11:08:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Very interesting Frank. Then the other sort of meta-question, is whether
    this unitization in a systematic approach was taken for the benefit of the type
    design, or for the benefit of the typographer at composition-time. '
  created: '2010-12-31 13:28:10'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "David: <em>Why not assume the origin of the lowercase m width is in the em-square
    instead?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause the (proportions of) written letters formed the basis
    for Renaissance type, I assume that the regularization and standardization started
    with the lower case m, but after the system was established it also worked the
    other way around, as you describe. In both cases the punch cutter probably defined
    a framework like I produced below for Adobe Garamond.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Framework_5049.jpg]\r\nAs
    reactions on my earlier posts on (possible) standardizations here on Typophile
    prove, not all contemporary type designers like the idea that the famous punch
    cutters from the past applied advanced regularizations and standardizations. The
    reactions seem to be in line with Fournier\u2019s comment in his <em>Manuel Typographique</em>
    from 1764&ndash;1766 on the attempts of Jaugeon and his colleagues to standardize
    the design of type: \u2018<em>These gentlemen would have been well advised to
    a single rule which they established, which is chiefly to be guided by the eye,
    the supreme judge [\u2026]</em>\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/RdR_grid_6411.jpg]\r\nWhen
    it comes to punch cutting, the patterns for the construction of a new series of
    types for the exclusive use of the Imprimerie Royale developed by the Acad\xE9mie
    des Sciences in eighteenth century France are generally considered a unique case.
    Updike in <em>Printing types, their history, forms and use</em> (Cambridge, 1937):
    \u2018<em>[\u2026] every Roman capital was to be designed on a framework of 2304
    little squares. Grandjean, the first type-cutter who attempted to follow them,
    is said to have observed sarcastically, that he should certainly accept Jaugeon\u2019s
    dictum that \u201Cthe eye is the sovereign ruler of taste\u201D and accepting
    this, should throw the rest of his rules overboard!</em>\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    \u2018RdR\u2019 is merely treated as an isolated attempt to regularize and standardize
    type, and often it is disliked. For instance Fred Smeijers in <em>Counterpunch</em>
    (London, 1996): \u2018<em>The best known case of the separation of design from
    execution is the \u201Cromain du roi\u201D. Here in France at the end of the seventeenth
    century, intellectual reason struggled in a dialogue with practice and human limitations</em>\u2019,
    and Albert Kapr in <em>The art of lettering</em> (M\xFCnchen, 1983) : \u2018<em>A
    commission was appointed in 1692 to fix the proportions of the romain du roi.
    Under the chairmanship of the Abb\xE9 Nicolas Jaugeon, it went even further in
    determining the design of typefaces by mathematical rules and diagrams. We need
    not overrate all these attempts, for artistic success is scarcely achieved through
    geometric or scientific means</em>\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Moxon_RdR_3958.jpg]\r\nThe
    framework of 2304 little squares was perhaps not so unique as many authors on
    type try to let us believe. The relation between the lowercase letterforms in
    Moxon\u2019s engravings and the plates for the \u2018RdR\u2019 (see illustration;
    the red lines are Moxon\u2019s contours) can be coincidental, but it seems that
    the Acad\xE9mie des Sciences thoroughly researched publications on type and it
    is quite possible that Moxon\u2019s <em>Mechanick Exercises</em> was consulted
    also. And Moxon actually shows in his plates a 42-unit grid and this results in
    a framework of 1764 units. That is also a lot and Moxon remarks: \u2018<em>We
    shall imagine (for in Practice it cannot well be perform\u2019d, unless in very
    large Bodies) that the Length of the whole Body is divided into forty and two
    equal Parts\u2019</em> and <em>\u2018It may indeed be thought impossible to divide
    a Body into seven equal Parts, and much more difficult to divide each of those
    seven equal parts into six equal Parts, which are Forty two, as aforesaid, especially
    if the Body be but small; but yet it is possible with curious Working [\u2026]</em>\u2019.
    Just like Moxon, Fournier divided the body also into seven parts, but apparently
    without the subdivision: \u2018<em>I divide the body of the letter which I am
    to cut into seven equal parts, three for the short, five for the ascending and
    descending, and seven or the whole for the long letters</em>\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Moxon_grid_3847.jpg]\r\nOne
    wonders why Moxon\u2019s grid seems to be overlooked; is it because he did not
    actually draw the grid lines, like I did in the illustration shown above? So,
    could it be that the conclusion by Robin Kinross in <em>Modern typography</em>
    (London, 2004) that \u2018<em>[\u2026] The \u201Cromain du roi\u201D can be seen
    as an innocent anticipation of the conditions of type design and text composition
    in the later twentieth century</em>\u2019 is incorrect and that the \u2018RdR\u2019
    is actually just a formalization of an older process?\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Measurements_1_5086.jpg]\r\nRecently
    I started measuring French Renaissance type at the Museum Plantin-Moretus in Antwerp
    to find prove for my ideas about the standardization of widths, which I discussed
    also in this <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/66574\">topic</a>. One of the
    types I measured was the <em>Middelbaar Canon</em> or <em>Moyen Canon Romain</em>,
    which is an adaptation by Hendrik van den Keere of Garamond\u2019s <em>Gros Canon
    Romain</em>. The <em>Gros Canon Romain</em> appeared for the first time in 1555
    and which was \u2018<em>extremely widespread over western Europe from about 1560
    onwards</em>\u2019 according to H.D.L. Vervliet in <em>Sixteenth-Century Printing
    Types of the Low Countries</em> (Amsterdam, 1968). For the <em>Middelbaar Canon</em>
    Hendrik van den Keere made accompanying capitals, which appear in Plantin\u2019s
    books from 1571 onwards and obviously he also shortened the ascenders and descenders.
    \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MiddelbaarCanon_1_3659.jpg]\r\nIn
    the 1960\u2019s a small set of foundry type was cast from the original matrices
    of the <em>Middelbaar Canon</em> at the Museum Plantin-Moretus. The letters were
    apparently fitted according to Fournier\u2018s ideas about spacing in his <em>Manuel
    Typographique</em>: \u2018<em>The letter m of every fount is taken first, and
    when this is right it is used as a pattern for the others. Three m\u2019s are
    put in the lining-stick and the first to be cast of every sort is put between
    them and made to tally with them. The necessary alterations are then made in the
    mould and the matrix</em>\u2019; the widths of all characters being different.
    Actually the widths are so different, that things are messed up, like the n and
    h show.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MiddelbaarCanon_2_4564.jpg]\r\nAs
    I expected, the original sixteenth century type shows a clear standardization
    of widths and the letters can be placed in groups, like a,c,e and b,d,g,h,n,o,p,q,v,\uFB01
    and r,s,t. The results of the measurements (using a digital caliper) show deviations
    within these groups of approximately 0.2\u20130.4 mm. The deviations cannot be
    felt with one\u2019s fingers, even when the nail is used to check differences
    in thickness when the letters are lined up. Also the widths of the characters
    within a group <em>look</em> the same. One can imagine that after casting the
    first letter of a group, this letter was used to empirically check the thickness
    of the other letters. There appeared to be also some deviations in the thickness
    of the letters, depending on where exactly they were measured.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nAs
    mentioned, Moxon describes in <em>Mechanick Exercises</em> a grid of 42 units
    for the body and this results in 24 units for the n. If the group of letters of
    the <em>Middelbaar Canon</em> with the same width as the n is placed on 5.3 mm,
    than 1/24 is 0.22 mm. If the width of the m is rounded to 8.8 mm, the resulting
    number of units is exactly 40. The group of the i, j and l is in general 2.3 mm
    and a little bit rounded this results in 10 units. The a, c and e are placed on
    in general 4.4 mm and this results in 20 units. The r, s and t take around 3.6
    mm, which results in 16 units. The 1, 3 and 5 share the widths of the \u2018i-group\u2019,
    the 2, 4, 6, 8 and 9 the widths of the \u2018a-group\u2019 and the 7 and 9 the
    widths of the \u2018n-group\u2019.\r\nA unit of 0.22 mm may look small, but when
    the smallest multiplication factor is for instance 10 (i, j and l), than working
    with such a system should at least theoretically have been possible.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-31 13:28:26'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "David: <em>[\u2026] the other sort of meta-question, is whether this unitization
    in a systematic approach was taken for the benefit of the type design, or for
    the benefit of the typographer at composition-time</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pasletters_1_6431.jpg]\r\nThe
    consequence of Fourniers method is that casting and composing becomes more complex
    than in case of standardizations of widths. Perhaps punch cutting becomes easier
    then, because the characters can be engraved independently of their final widths.
    The fitting becomes the problem of the caster (and the justification of lines
    the problem of the compositor). In the early days of typography the punch cutters
    were also the casters, but later on in history casting mainly became a separate
    profession, as you know.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nDuring my research at the Museum Plantin-Moretus
    the technical expert at the museum, Guy Hutsebaut, showed me a collection of cardboard
    boxes with roles of mainly seventeenth century printed sheets, containing collections
    of foundry type. These loose letters were used as examples for the fitting of
    type during casting. Although some of the roles are numbered, they seem not to
    be catalogued.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pasletters_2_4404.jpg]\r\nThe
    collections are identified by names as \u2018pas letters\u2019 and \u2018Lettre
    de la justification\u2019 plus information about the font in question. One can
    imagine that this material was only used if the punch cutter was not casting himself.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-31 13:57:20'
- author:
    name: robinkinross
  body: "Frank:\r\n<em>So, could it be that the conclusion by Robin Kinross in Modern
    typography (London, 2004) that \u2018[\u2026] The \u201Cromain du roi\u201D can
    be seen as an innocent anticipation of the conditions of type design and text
    composition in the later twentieth century\u2019 is incorrect and that the \u2018RdR\u2019
    is actually just a formalization of an older process?</em>\r\n\r\nFinding order
    in history, and seeing patterns of progress there, is a dangerous business. In
    the words you quoted from me here, I did my best to avoid the mistake of pattern
    building. The crucial word is \"innocent\". People in 1700, just as people in
    2011, can anticipate nothing with any certainty, expect perhaps the rising of
    the sun the next day. And like your \"could it be\", I was careful to add \"can
    be\". I was really making a banal conclusion to my discussion of the RdR: \"it
    reminds us of later conditions\", and that one can see the RdR as standing in
    the broad sweep of modernity that developed over centuries.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the \"older process\". I take the point that there is a back-history to the RdR.
    Your research here is really interersting and I hope it fourishes. In my case
    it was Peter Burnhill's work that opened my eyes to this (I worked with him on
    the book published eventually in 2003 as <em>Type spaces</em>). \r\n\r\nBut your
    statement that \"the \u2018RdR\u2019 is actually just a formalization of an older
    process\" feels too strong. Yes, it's clear now that the forms of the RdR did
    not come out of nothing: they have some roots in writing, as I think James Mosley
    has suggested. And now one can see that there were habits of unitization that
    were in use in type manufacture already. But if the RdR is \"a formalization of
    an older process\", it can't \"just\" be that. The RdR did have clear after-effects.
    Type was cut from its models, was printed from. These printed images were circulated,
    reproduced, discussed ..."
  created: '2011-01-03 15:57:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Frank: <em>The collections are identified by names as \u2018pas letters\u2019
    and \u2018Lettre de la justification\u2019 plus information about the font in
    question. One can imagine that this material was only used if the punch cutter
    was not casting himself.</em>\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of the discussion we had
    over dinner with the URW guys regarding iterative auto-spacing and -kerning. What
    I had in mind is something like these <em>lettres de la justification:</em> a
    set of model glyphs, spaced by the type designer, that provide guidance to the
    auto-spacing and -kerning routines. Iteratively, after the auto- routines have
    run, the designer could adjust results on some glyphs and add them to the model
    set to refine the results of the next run of the routines."
  created: '2011-01-03 19:48:37'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "John: <em>What I had in mind is something like these lettres de la justification:
    a set of model glyphs, spaced by the type designer, that provide guidance to the
    auto-spacing and -kerning routines.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWith <em>Kernus 3.0</em>
    (1998) also auto-spacing was possible and the side-bearing or width values for
    a small range of key characters could be adjusted by the designer (see illustration).
    If everything goes well, this functionality will become available for Mac OS X
    and Windows as part of \u2018GPOSMaster\u2019 (the exact name of the application
    has not been defined yet actually) sometime this year. The \u2018Kern Strength\u2019
    (as it is named in KernMaster) can be defined per group of characters in the new
    program.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kernus_1_4709.jpg]\r\n\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\u2013\r\nRobin,
    thanks for the clarification.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-03 20:51:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 17:32:07'
- author:
    name: mcatopodis
    picture: 121561
  body: "<cite>One wonders why Moxon\u2019s grid seems to be overlooked; is it because
    he did not actually draw the grid lines, like I did in the illustration shown
    above? So, could it be that the conclusion by Robin Kinross in Modern typography
    (London, 2004) that \u2018[\u2026] The \u2018romain du roi\u2019 can be seen as
    an innocent anticipation of the conditions of type design and text composition
    in the later twentieth century\u2019 is incorrect and that the \u2018RdR\u2019
    is actually just a formalization of an older process? </cite>\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nVery
    suggestive point of view, Frank. In this way, the Romain du Roi could (just) shows
    visually the process, but carrying the older tradition.\r\n\r\nMiguel\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 21:58:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/oh/oh.html\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe RdR grid makes
    clear that the glyph is drawn on the grid (\"snap to grid\", as it were), rather
    than the grid being the traditional \"squaring off\" method of mapping used in
    art for drawing from life, perspective construction, and resizing.\r\nFor instance,
    the slope of the left stem of \"M\" is exactly one grid unit.\r\nEven the \"half
    square\" width of the serif tips relates to the grid.\r\n\r\nHowever, ultimately
    the functionality of the RdR drawings is questionable, because the cap-height
    is drawn to a height of 48 units, whereas the lower case ascender height is at
    a different scale, 63 units. So they are more of a proportional guide, albeit
    with high-tech cachet.\r\n\r\n(I've come to this conclusion from online sources,
    not the originals, so I hope it's right.)"
  created: '2011-01-04 23:19:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "FB> Perhaps punch cutting becomes easier then, because the characters can
    be engraved independently of their final widths. \r\n\r\nEngraved independently
    yes, but do you think letter definition and unitizing happen  independent of each
    other in successful foundries?\r\n\r\n>The fitting becomes the problem of the
    caster (and the justification of lines the problem of the compositor). \r\n\r\nunderstood.
    But what better way to improve the quality \"back then\", than to have the letters
    designed for a specific width on a grid, and then to describe those widths to
    the caster, (painter, carver or scribe for that matter), in the form of an actual
    object for measurement?\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 21:16:39'
- author:
    name: Michael Harkins
    picture: 121551
  body: "There are some very interesting themes that you raise Frank. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    it is perhaps worthwhile to look at Moxon's earlier work also (I have been looking
    at the work of Moxon, Fournier and the Academie of Sciences for my PhD, I also
    presented some findings in relation to this at ATypI Dublin \u2013 perhaps we
    should compare notes at some point?):\r\n\r\nMoxon j. (1676) Regulea Trium Ordinum
    Literarum Typographicarum or The rules of three orders of print letters: viz.
    {The roman, italic, english} capitals and small. Shewing how they are compounded
    of geometric figures, and mostly made by rule and compas. Useful for Writing masters,
    Painters, Carvers, Masons, and other Lovers of Curiosity. By Joseph Moxon, Hydrographer
    to the Kings Most Excellent Majesty. London: Sign of the Atlas\r\n\r\nIt has to
    be borne in mind Moxon's scientifically inclined approach to work. This is also
    the period of enlightenment. Moxon's work is claimed to be based on a study of
    the letters of Christophel van Dijck. Influences are also drived from Albrecht
    D\xFCrer's geometric rationalisation of captital letters and Vitruvius' The Rules
    of the Five Orders of Architecture (a survey of proportions found in Tuscan, Doric,
    Ionic, Corinthian and Composite columns etc.)\r\n\r\nThere is also something that
    has to be very carefully considered with regard to the purpose of what Moxon and
    the Academie set out to do by making such descriptions of letterform intended
    for typeface. \r\n\r\nIn terms of the Academie Jaugeon gives an account found
    in Jammes' excellent article in Journal of the Printing Historical Society No.1
    1965:\r\n\r\n'We began by making a collection of all letters made by means of
    punches, and which have been approved of in the finest printed books. Next we
    consulted those writers who have tried to provide rules and proportions for them
    and we saw when comparing the finest letters form the handsomest books with those
    proposed as models in treatise on the subject, that in every case there was room
    for improvement, and to do this one had to eliminate the defects of some and guard
    against the uncritical acceptance of others'. \r\n\r\n\r\nJammes comments on the
    above:\r\n\r\n'It was on this basis, and not empirically that engraved models
    were established.'\r\n\r\n\r\nMoxon's preface to Mechanick Exercises also comes
    from the perspective of improving through mathematics and science that which he
    agruably considered otherwise malevolent perhaps:\r\n\r\n'\u2026I find that a
    Typographer ought to be equally qualified with all the sciences that become an
    Architect, and then I think no doubt remains that Typographie is not also a Mathematical
    Science. (Moxon 1683)\r\n\r\nMoxon attempts to align his mathematical and scientific
    perspective as just with his obvious influence in Dr. Dee's Mathematical preface
    to Euclids Elements of Geometry.\r\n\r\nAs you correctly point out similarities
    in Moxon and Founrier's accounts of 'seven parts' etc. However, both are referring
    to the division of vertical space \u2013 so the height or depth of a letter in
    relation to working with the 'face gauge'. Lines that allow three parts for the
    body of the letter (our x-height today) two parts for the descenders and two parts
    for the ascenders.\r\n\r\nMoxon's 'grid' as shown in Mechanick Exercises is obviously
    based on his work in Regulae Trium etc. However, you will notice that there is
    a convenient 'post-rationalisation' here. Moxon's original grid that surrounds
    the cap A in Trium etc. shows a width of 36 divisions, convincingly this appears
    in Mechanick Exercises extended to 42 wide, reinforcing his rationalist approach.
    Also of note are the serifs or 'footings' to the letter, these are much exaggerated
    in Mechanick Exercises. Moxon neither optically compensates for curves or points
    in his letters such as O V etc. On viewing letters drawn by Moxon some appear
    so badly rendered that his method of rule and compass can surely only indicate
    use as a guide. He espouses scientific and mathematic rule but this has to be
    questioned.\r\n\r\nAll this is not to say letters were not constructed to 'divine
    proportions' of course. However, Moxon and the members of the Academie who conducted
    their 'studies' were not expert in designing letters or cutting punches. The same
    cannot not be said of Fournier who's life and work was devoted to this. This is
    not to say that Fournier did not 'borrow' either. Fournier's account is a pragmatic
    one, one that cannot be ignored either.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it is worth to consider
    a further point from Jammes:\r\n\r\n'Jaugeon and his associates did not lose sight
    of the purpose of these models [RdR]. They conceived them as patterns destined
    to guide the eye of artist, afterwards to be transferred to steel as precisely
    as possible. They were well aware that their geometric grid was useless when reduced,
    for \"in the making of punches, at least in the smaller sizes, it is very difficult
    to achieve perfect accuracy\" and so it is the \"eye of the craftsman that must
    decide\"'. (Jammes 1965)\r\n\r\nPerhaps it is worth also looking at the letters
    taken from the punches (1695) of Grandjean in relation to Simonneau's first copperplate
    engravings for the RdR (1695). These are more than imperfections of accuracy,
    these are deliberate or conscious changes that arguably Grandjean intended and
    at times disregards the work of the commission.\r\n\r\nWell at least it's something
    to think about!\r\nMH"
  created: '2011-01-06 03:32:21'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Actually it was not my intention to put too much emphasis on Moxon and the
    \u2018Romain du Roi\u2019 in my attempts to prove the existence of unitizations
    in the work of Renaissance punch cutters, i.e. the modelers of the <em>archetypes</em>.
    My point is that the RdR is not a unique example of the appliance of a grid in
    the world of <em>punch cutting</em>. I underline \u2018punch cutting\u2019 here,
    because the attempts to capture the construction and proportions of the inscribed
    Roman imperial capitals from the first century into geometric models, like D\xFCrer\u2019s,
    were made by artists, scholars and calligraphers. For instance D\xFCrer (1471\u20131528)
    was an artist, Fra Luca de Pacioli (1446/7\u20131517), who published a section
    on the \u2018true\u2019 shapes and proportions of classical Roman letters in his
    <em>De Devina Proportione</em> (\u2018Devine Proportion\u2019, i.e., golden section)
    from 1509 was a mathematical scholar and Giambattista Palatino, who was a calligrapher,
    also made geometrical representations of the Roman imperial capitals.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nGrids
    were applied on type before the RdR, as Moxon for instance shows in his <em>Mechanick
    Exercises</em>. I don\u2019t believe that the 42-unit grid from this work or the
    36-units grids from the <em>Regulae Trium Ordinum Litterarum Typographic Arum
    </em> were standards though. The fact that I could apply the 42-unit grid on the
    <em>Middelbaar Canon</em> could even be a coincidence. But if my theory is correct,
    <em>any</em> \u2018natural\u2019 division into any number of units could be made,
    using a simple system, which I describe below.\r\nFor me the most important question
    is how the division into the (number of) units, i.e. the grid, was actually made.
    Is there a clear relation between the units and the vertical and horizontal proportions
    of the letters? Is the vertical division of the body into seven parts by both
    Moxon and Fournier for instance related to the horizontal proportions of the letters?
    In other words, are the grids artificial, i.e. defined first, after which the
    letterforms are adjusted to the grid, or are the grids organic, i.e. derived from
    the proportions of the letters?\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFournier\u2019s account on punch
    cutting in his <em>Manuel Typographique</em> has become a major source of information
    on the subject and besides Moxon\u2019s <em>Mechanick Exercises</em> there seems
    not to be much info on this subject available. The dialogue on <em>Calligraphy
    & Printing</em>, which is attributed to Christopher Plantin (translated by Ray
    Nash [Antwerp, 1964]) does not provide much info on punch cutting. Fournier was
    certainly a trained punch cutter, but that does not imply by definition that he
    knew all rules that were applied earlier in the trade.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n\u2018<em>Letters
    are things, not pictures of things</em>\u2019 is a famous quote by Eric Gill from
    his <em>Autobiography</em> Nevertheless, in his <em>An essay on typography</em>
    Gill basically provides most info on the shapes of letters by using pictures with
    captions like \u2018<em>[\u2026] normal forms; the remainder shows various exaggerations;
    [\u2026] common form of vulgarity; [\u2026] common misconceptions [\u2026]\u2019</em>.
    Any basic information on the underlying structures and patterns is missing. This
    is in line with the way type seems to have been treated since the establishment
    of typography in Renaissance Italy. The letter shapes and their proportions of
    the Italian Renaissance punch cutters were copied by French Renaissance punch
    cutters and their work formed the basis for the Dutch letterforms from the Baroque.
    This leads to the first question for which my PhD research is meant to provide
    an answer:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n<em>Could it be possible that somewhere during the development
    of type the knowledge of initial regularizations, standardizations and unitizations
    was lost and that subsequently letters became pictures of things instead of things
    and if so, can this information be retrieved from historical material, such as
    punches, matrices and prints since historical documentation on this subject is
    extremely scarce?</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nFor answering this question, information about
    possible regularizations, standardizations and unitizations have to be distilled
    from historical material, such as prints, punches and matrices. To some extent
    making assumptions is inevitable and this makes this research also somewhat controversial.
    And, as I stated in earlier posts, not everyone likes the idea that the ruling
    of the eye is merely the result of a conditioning based on formalized sets of
    graphemes for &ndash;in our case&ndash; representing the Latin script. The models
    define the rules and their shaping is the result of culturally influenced ideas
    about harmony and rhythm and subsequently of <em>beauty</em>. As the graphemes
    worldwide in use to represent the different scripts prove, the ideas of what is
    harmonically and rhythmically balanced, clearly differ &ndash;as those who work
    on \u2018global fonts\u2019 probably will acknowledge.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nTo be able
    to describe the (possible) unitization, i.e. the applied grids, first I will have
    to describe here the factors that are crucial for defining the harmonics of type:\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>1</strong>.
    The relation between the proportions of the letters within a <em>Harmonic system</em>,
    such as <em>roman</em>, <em>italic</em> and <em>capital</em> and the required
    adjustments of these proportions to make the different <em>Harmonic systems</em>
    work together.\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>2</strong>. The relation between
    the horizontal and vertical proportions of the <em>Harmonic systems</em>.\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>3</strong>.
    The relation between the proportions of the members of a <em>Harmonic system</em>
    and their <em>Rhythmic system</em>, i.e. their widths (fitting).\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>4</strong>.
    The translation of the <em>Rhythmic system</em> into a grid.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI will
    try to keep this description as short as possible; it is absolutely not my intention
    to publish my thesis here or to reveal all the outcomes of my research. So, I
    just give a very compact summary of some of my ideas. At the end of this post
    I will discuss whether it is possible to distill a grid from an existing (digital)
    typeface, which has proportions related to the \u2018Garamond model\u2019 and
    give some info on \u2018rhythmic\u2019 fitting (as opposed to \u2018optical\u2019
    spacing). \r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>1. The proportions of
    the letters</strong>\r\nThere is no discussion possible about the fact that written
    letters were initially standardized and eventually formalized by the invention
    of movable type in the Renaissance. I can supply numerous quotations here, but
    I restrict myself to Johnston ([Heather Child ed.], <em>Formal Penmanship and
    other papers</em>): \u2018<em>The first printers\u2019 types were naturally an
    inevitably the more formalized, or materialized, letter of the writer\u2019</em>.
    Bringhurst (<em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>): \u2018<em>The original
    purpose of type was simply copying. The job of typographer was to imitate the
    scribal hand in a form that permitted exact and fast replication.</em>\u2019 Morison
    (<em>Type designs of the past and present</em>): \u2018<em>Handwriting is, of
    course, the immediate forerunner of printing, and some knowledge of its history
    is essential to any sound understanding of typography</em>\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_1_3672.jpg]\r\nFor
    the formalization and standardization of written letters, Jenson and his colleagues
    (Sweynheym and Pannartz , Da Spira, Griffo) had to provide a structure for the
    relation of the proportions of the letters. I strongly believe that the Renaissance
    guys used the \u2018primary\u2019 (geometric) model for the roman (see illustration
    above), which is applied in <a href=\" http://www.typophile.com/node/73818\">LeMo</a>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_2_3626.jpg]\r\nThe
    \u2018n b c\u2019 illustration shows the proportions of a couple of letters of
    Hendrik van den Keere\u2019s <em>Parangon Romain</em> placed on the related \u2018primary\u2019
    <em>Harmonic model</em>. The same relation between the proportions of the letters
    can be found in Jenson\u2019s, Griffo\u2019s and Garamond\u2019s type.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_3_4048.jpg]\r\nTypefaces
    can be based on a single <em>Proportional model</em>, i.e. within the <em>Harmonic
    model</em> there is only one value used for the horizontal stretching, like in
    Van den Keere\u2019s <em>Parangon Romain</em>, or contain multiple proportional
    models, like Van den Keere\u2019s <em>Canon Romain</em> (see below). Multiple
    proportional models especially seem to appear in the larger point sizes during
    the French Renaissance. An example is the condensed m, of which I have the impression
    that it only was used for display purposes before the seventeenth century. The
    shape and proportions of the m seem to have been based always on \u2018twice\u2019
    an n in the Italian and French Renaissance text types and the relatively condensed
    m seems to appear in text sizes in the seventeenth century also.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_4_6724.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>
    2. The relation between the horizontal and vertical proportions</strong>\r\nAfter
    defining the proportions within the x-height using the primary <em>Harmonic model</em>,
    the next step is to establish the relation between the x-height and the length
    of the ascenders and descenders. This could have been done using the (e)m-square
    as follows:\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_5_4910.jpg]\r\nThe
    hierarchical relation between the size of the counters, i.e. the space in the
    letters and the length of the ascenders and descenders is catched in this (e)m-square
    model. Widening the m results in a relatively smaller x-heigth and condensing
    the m in a larger x-height within the (e)m-square. The <em>Proportional model</em>
    can be used to define the width of the m and thus the proportions of the (e)m-square.
    \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_6_3488.jpg]\r\nThe
    relation between the height of the capitals and the (e)m square and the actual
    lengths of the ascenders and descenders can be calculated using the n-square (see
    below).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_7_4104.jpg]
    \r\nThe relation between the horizontal proportions of the (e)m-square and the
    widths of the capitals (like those of [Adobe] Jenson, which are shown in the illustration
    below) can be defined also using the m (or twice the n in case the m is relatively
    condensed).\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_8_4953.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>3.
    The relation between the <em>Harmonic system</em> and the <em>Rhythmic system</em></strong>\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_9_5819.jpg]\r\nThe
    modulation from Textura to Humanistic minuscule is not more than a matter of reversing
    the process of condensing and curve-flattening in combination with an increase
    in weight (see illustration above), which took place in the second half of the
    middle ages, and which transformed the Carolingian minuscule into the Textura.
    B.L. Ullman (<em>The origin and development of humanistic script</em>): \u2018<em>This
    Carolingian script reached its finest flower in the ninth century, then gradually
    decayed. By the thirteenth century its transformation into Gothic was complete.
    The characteristics of Gothic are lateral compression, angularity, and what I
    have called fusion, the overlapping of rounded letter\u2019</em>.\r\nThe transition
    from Textura to roman type is in the literature on type and typography mostly
    described as a matter of taste and preferences. Stanley Morison (<em>Type designs
    of the past and present</em>): \u2018<em>In Italy the gothic letter, though richly
    and magnificently used, soon began to show traces of influence exerted by the
    small round letter favoured by the humanistic scholars who thronged the courts
    and universities\u2019</em>. The technical consequences of the transition from
    Textura to roman type for the punch cutters and especially the casters seem to
    have been ignored completely in literature.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe fitting of Textura
    is basically fairly simple because of the vertical stressing of the letters; the
    vertical strokes can be placed at equal distances and hence the space between
    the strokes and the side bearings is also in almost all cases equal, as the following
    illustration shows. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_10_5111.jpg]\r\nThe
    morphology is in basis the same for Textura and roman type, hence the round parts
    can be considered as overshoots of the straight strokes. Defining the side bearings
    for roman type can therefore be done in the same way as for Textura type (see
    below). It is not impossible that Jenson applied the fitting structure for Textura
    type directly on his roman type. The illustration below seems to prove the appliance
    of this fencing-method by Jenson.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_11_4482.jpg]\r\nThe
    grids as shown in the previous two illustrations, are based on the division of
    the counter of the n into two equal space parts, i.e. the line is drawn exactly
    in between the stems of the n. This division comes forth from the design itself
    and the fact that the other letters belong to the same proportional system generates
    a simple unit arrangement in which the i is placed on one unit, the n, h, u and
    o on two and the m on three units.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_12_5582.jpg]\r\nThe
    incorporation of other letters in the fitting system, like for instance the s
    and e, requires a refinement of the grid. For example the grid can be doubled,
    placing the o on five units and providing the three units required for spacing
    the s. The grid can be doubled again, because for the placement of the right side
    bearing for the e a further refinement of the grid could be necessary. \r\nThe
    distance from the centre of the n to the side bearing is identical to the distance
    from stem to stem (A). The division into finer units does not have to be the result
    of doubling; the forenamed distance can be divided into any number of units. One
    can imagine a smaller number for small point sizes.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>4.
    The translation of units into a grid</strong>\r\nThe division into seven parts
    by Moxon seems to follow the scheme described above. In the illustration below
    the grid from his engravings in <em>Mechanick Exercises</em> is placed 1:1 on
    the \u2018lower case\u2019 letters. This implies that the size of the \u2018<em>seven
    equal parts</em> which he used for the division of the body, was defined by the
    proportions of the n (and m). Here Moxon divides the distance from stem to stem
    into 12 units. One wonders if the developers of the hot metal typesetting machines
    knew this system. My guess is that they actually were aware of it.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_13_6262.jpg]\r\nAlso
    in the type used by Gutenberg for his 42-line bible (an many other types), I could
    find a direct relation between the horizontal and the vertical grid, as the following
    two illustrations show. These grids are theoretically size-independent, like the
    (inorganic) m-squares used in CFF and TrueType fonts.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_14_6682.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_15_5997.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<strong>Rythmic
    spacing</strong>\r\nTo optically determine the character width, i.e. the space
    that \u2018belongs\u2019 to the character, (after spacing) an arbitrary side bearing
    can be drawn in between the characters, like has been done in the illustration
    below. This results in a distance between the right stem of the left n and the
    side bearing. By placing the side bearing at the same distance from the right
    stem of the right n, the character width is defined.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_16_4681.jpg]\r\nTheoretically
    this is enough information for spacing all other letters, and characters, because
    these can be placed optically correctly, i.e. within the defined rhythm, in between
    a range of n\u2019s. The side bearings of the \u2018n\u2019 mark the side bearings
    of the spaced letters then. To make the fitting easier (and the combination of
    for instance roman and italic) the second step in the fitting process is normally
    to optically centre the \u2018base\u2019 letters. Letters that share (almost)
    the same forms, like the related curves of the b, d, p and q with the o, can be
    spaced identically. Therefore it is not necessary to space every character separately,
    because groups of related letters can be made. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nAlternatively the
    fitting of letters can be done based on the <em>Rhythmic system</em>, by applying
    a grid on the fenced letters as described above. This actually implies that the
    letters themselves have to be designed on the fencing rhythm. This results in
    groups of equal widths, like I found in VdK\u2019s <em>Middelbaar Canon</em> (digitally
    measured at the Museum Plantin-Moretus). A fencing rhythm or \u2018fence posting\u2019
    standardises the distances between stems. The traditional approach in type design
    and typography is that the space between the counters of type for text setting
    is an optical repetition of the space within the counters. However one can question
    whether the differences in white spaces as the result of \u2018fence posting\u2019
    can be seen at text sizes and also whether the casters in the past would have
    been able to apply the subtle differences, which are more visible for the digital
    type designer who enlarges the letters on screen for spacing. And could it be
    possible that at small sizes the rhythm of stems is more important than the rhythm
    of white space?\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_17_6687.jpg]\r\nI
    did some test with the refinement of the grid and also looked if it was possible
    to translate the grid that originated from \u2018fence posting\u2019 into values
    for the placement of side bearings for letters that were <em>not</em> designed
    on groups of equal widths. A division of the width of the n into 36 units was
    refined enough to space for instance Adobe Garamond. In the illustration below
    the first text contains the original fitting by Slimbach and the second one grid
    fitting based on the 36 units for the n.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_18_5270.jpg]\r\nSpacing
    via cadence-units is an extremely simple and fast method when applied in a font
    editor (just put the grid into the background) and <em>no</em> knowledge of letters
    or any experience with spacing is required. For the more advanced type designers
    it could provide a starting point for further refining. Of course, I have been
    thinking of computerizing this simple system and it is already part of the latest
    version of LeMo. If everything goes well, further development will result in a
    small application (\u2018RhythmicFitter\u2019[?]), which can be used for the fitting
    of digital fonts.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo_illu_19_3565.jpg]\r\nFor
    those who want to apply the system on their roman type, I supply a range of units
    here (see also <a href=http://www.fonttools.org/downloads/On_m_and_ns.pdf>this
    pdf</a>). These should work for a 36-unit grid for the n. My idea for the forenamed
    application is, that the user can define the resolution of the grid and the related
    units for fitting himself. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-07 13:54:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gotta love this thread!  Thanks for sharing!\r\nSomebody please put this
    on \"Handpicked\"?"
  created: '2011-01-07 15:53:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Great work, Frank.\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm not convinced that Jenson was a fence-poster.
    \r\nIn this example of letters culled from the same page printed by him, the distance
    between the stems of h, u, n and m is quite different, and it appears to be an
    aesthetic decision, not random deviation.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hunm_4398.png]"
  created: '2011-01-07 17:56:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Seems odd that Jenson's u is more open than the n?  I feel as though the u
    should be narrower than n or is that my astigmatism?
  created: '2011-01-07 19:09:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, because the ink from those days is often much heavier on one letter
    than another it is hard to conclude anything from one set of letters. '
  created: '2011-01-07 21:50:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...because the ink from those days is often much heavier on one letter
    than another...\"\r\n\r\nI know that and I can see some acceptable variation in
    the spread on Nick's sample.  I also see the position variation on the cyan guide
    lines indicates spread is not the culprit here. Yes, the u is a tad cleaner than
    the n with the n appearing to have recieved more ink perhaps due to its positioning
    visa vis the head of the form when locked up.  Notice that even though the u received
    less ink and or less packing, it is still wider than the n.  The m of course is
    typically narrower as an optical correction for overall width.\r\n\r\n\r\nFrom
    what I can see from this low rez image, the packing does not seem to be severe
    and the inking difference is within tolerances for that era of printing technology.
    \  "
  created: '2011-01-07 22:26:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ink gain occurs on both sides of stems.\r\nThe blue lines are centred in
    the \"h\" stems."
  created: '2011-01-07 22:27:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It might just be a mistake or an imperfection from manufacturing. As exquisite
    as Jenson\u2019s work is, it still suffers from the limits of the tools he had
    at his disposal."
  created: '2011-01-07 22:29:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Noticing the pull to the right of the u, perhaps some paper stretch is at
    work here, common for damp paper. From the gripper edge to the tail of the sheet,
    the sheet tended to stretch a tad wider at the foot. Glyphs on the lower left
    and lower right were subject to more of the effect than those at head above center.
  created: '2011-01-07 22:47:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: No mistakes. Those are counter variations consistent with unitization of similar
    forms with differing spacial requirements wrought by x- ht serifs.
  created: '2011-01-08 01:18:03'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: 'I tried to measure modern foundry type with the same equipment, and measurements
    smaller than about 1/4 point soon seemed irrelevant, regardless character size
    or even typeface, as differences in width between bodies of the same character
    were relatively too large, even after cleaning thoroughly, measuring exactly the
    same way, choosing similar samples, etc. '
  created: '2011-01-09 14:14:10'
- author:
    name: James Mosley
  body: "With the kindest of intentions and much goodwill I\u2019d like to do something
    to introduce a little scepticism into the historical parts of Frank\u2019s line
    of research.\r\n\r\nLike many others, I am well aware that the type of the 42-line
    Bible, and Jenson\u2019s, and perhaps Baskerville\u2019s Great Primer too (the
    type of his <em>Virgil</em>, 1757), all seem to be designed to be cast in a way
    that will produce strokes that appear evenly spaced, and I am sure this effect
    gives printing with these types a special visual quality. But I find it less easy
    to believe that type makers of the 15th century did micro-analysis of the small
    details of their characters, involving the Golden Section.\r\n\r\nI do know something
    of the often rather obsessive geometric constructions of Roman inscriptional capital
    letters that to our knowledge begin with Feliciano in about 1460 and of which
    Palatino\u2019s, in about 1540, seems to have been among the last. Many of these
    schemes are closely linked up with attempts on the part of architects in Italy
    to interpret the text of the Roman theorist Vitruvius, who was writing about the
    proportions of buildings and the orders of columns, and was never concerned with
    letters.\r\n\r\nI should like to draw Frank\u2019s attention to the way humanity
    keeps breaking in to these theoretical constructions. Feliciano says of the letter
    R that the tail is a problem because there is no simple way of making it with
    a compass: \u2018you must let yourself be guided by your eye\u2019, he says. But
    then he tries again, showing a second R, saying that the tail must be made more
    by practice than by rules, so that to make it well, you must do it several times
    to get it right.\r\n\r\nPalatino made one of the latest and craziest of the geometrical
    constructions, and more or less destroyed their credibility. Cresci, his great
    rival as a calligrapher and the designer of some beautiful big capitals, said,
    in effect, \u2018loosen up\u2019. Geometry destroys letters for inscriptions:
    to do them well, draw them freehand, over and over again. Cresci\u2019s free-flowing
    script put Palatino\u2019s stiff, cramped, system-made model out of business,
    and changed the history of handwriting.\r\n\r\nMind you, there are some schemes
    that are worth taking seriously, like those for the Romain du Roi, for example.
    But they need to be followed with intelligence. Frank quotes Updike: \u2018Grandjean,
    the first type-cutter who attempted to follow them, is said to have observed sarcastically,
    that he should certainly accept Jaugeon\u2019s dictum that \u201Cthe eye is the
    sovereign ruler of taste\u201D and accepting this, should throw the rest of his
    rules overboard!\u2019.\r\n\r\nReally? Where did Updike find this remark? I\u2019ve
    never read it outside his book, and I think he probably made it up. Most of what
    we read about Grandjean making good type from the unreal schemes of the \u2018academicians\u2019
    is from Fournier, who had every interest in promoting himself as an \u2018artist\u2019
    of genius and rubbishing their theories. Odd that there are some details of the
    history of the type that we never hear. How the first version was so bad that
    it was rejected and the punches were destroyed. And how Jaugeon, who was directing
    its making, not only said \u2018follow the rules of your eye\u2019, but complained
    that Grandjean, who had many technical shortcomings, could never understand that
    in making the type, the punchcutter needed to add a certain \u2018je ne sais quoi\u2019
    \u2013 to learn how to interpret freely and intelligently.\r\n\r\nCharacter width,
    or \u2018set\u2019. Those types that Guy Hutsebaut found for Frank are called
    \u2018set patterns\u2019 in English. (By the by, I think the wording on the wrappers
    of these examples needs closer examining: what has been quoted does not make sense).
    Once you have produced a good fount from a set of matrices in one mould, setting
    its registers, you keep sample types. To repeat the \u2018set\u2019 or spacing
    of a new \u2018fount\u2019 (a word that just means \u2018casting\u2019), you put
    the \u2018set patterns\u2019 back in the same mould, one by one, use them to set
    the registers again, and you can repeat the casting you did before. No measurement
    is needed: use your eyes and fingers. No punchcutter could ever dictate the spacing
    of a type: it was all done by judgement of the caster. Just possibly some punchcutters
    made trial founts to guide the caster, but Frank, how many punchcutters do you
    think ever cast a full fount of their own types, commonly 100,000 sorts or more?
    Very often they never even made their own matrices.\r\n\r\nIn any case, how could
    it be possible to learn anything about the original spacing of a type of Van den
    Keere\u2019s from a casting done at the museum in the 1960s? Of course if their
    matrices are the same width so are some characters: that way you don\u2019t have
    to keep resetting the registers.\r\n\r\nIn his own treatise of about 1700, the
    only major text about making types that we have in addition to Moxon\u2019s and
    Fournier\u2019s, Jaugeon says that Grandjean made registers for the mould that
    could be finely adjusted with a screw thread to avoid the casters\u2019 normal
    practice of slackening the nut a bit and then using a hammer to shift the register,
    with predictable damage to the mould. Brilliant idea. But the new device was slow
    and it burned the caster\u2019s fingers when the mould was hot, as it was during
    casting. The casters went back to their hammers. You can handle just so much ingenious
    logic, and then you have to get on with the job.\r\n\r\nI rest my case. Yes, geometrical
    analysis is fascinating and it can probably give us real insights into some designs.
    But I am afraid that it often turns into a kind of enclosed system, isolated from
    the shop floor that we, as compositors and readers, work on.\r\n\r\nThe em quad
    by the way, as contributors to this thread have pointed out, is simply a \u2018square\u2019
    space (which is what \u2018quadrat\u2019 means), determined by the body of the
    type that is being cast. The en is half its width. No direct relationship to any
    letter is intended: the terms are figures of speech. Compositors use them, and
    call them \u2018muttons\u2019 and \u2018nuts\u2019 to save confusion in the shop.
    No theory, no measurements. You use em quads, sometimes made in multiples like
    3-em quads, to fill short lines and indent paragraphs. Welcome to the real world.\r\n\r\nBest
    wishes.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-11 15:02:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, geometrical analysis is fascinating and it can probably give us real
    insights into some designs. But I am afraid ...\"\r\n\r\nI have always felt that
    rigid geometry was counterproductive as a way of working.  I tried it numerous
    times and always found I needed to \"fix\" something a bit here and there. This
    is kind of like the measurement of moving quantum particles; there is a point
    where there is uncertainty and we need devise a probability instead of an exact
    measurement.  As a way of working, I find this to be a waste of time.  I would
    rather teach my eyes and hands to make the adjustment through human perception
    (learning to see).\r\nI can understand how the manufacturing process of producing
    mats and castings, how a geometric system can help in the physical production
    of metal objects.  In this age of bezier curves, we have no such need.  Even when
    the type for screen hinting issues attempt to fit glyph to grid, the grid is a
    moving target and we once again institute some fudge factor to allow for differences.
    If the eye is the final arbiter in seeing it, then the eye should make the judgement
    in making it.\r\n\r\nI am not saying this is a wasted process.  I am keenly interested
    in it even if I do not use it myself.  There are those with the right set of mathematical
    and perceptual gifts than can make a reasonable research of this and I hope they
    continue no-mater what they may find.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-01-11 16:39:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "My hat is off to James. very very well put. Just in case someone reading
    this isn't sure what Cresci capitals are like here is an image. Contact me offsite
    if you need more.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cresci_5607.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-14 08:01:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Also looking over my many photos of Jenson type I can readily concur with
    Nick's observations. The stems don't picket in reality even if they mostly do
    when looking at the text. The u is a bit "too" wide and breaks the rhythm.
  created: '2011-01-14 08:04:16'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Microscope_3457.jpg]\r\nJames: <em>I
    find it less easy to believe that type makers of the 15th century did micro-analysis
    of the small details of their characters, involving the Golden Section.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI
    don\u2019t think that the Renaissance punch cutters needed nanotechnology to apply
    the Golden Section on their type. The relations between the different <em>Harmonic
    systems</em> and their parts could have been drawn/calculated at any size and
    subsequently have been translated for instance to a \u2018face gauge\u2019.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames:
    <em>I am well aware that the type of the 42-line Bible, and Jenson\u2019s, and
    perhaps Baskerville\u2019s Great Primer too (the type of his Virgil, 1757), all
    seem to be designed to be cast in a way that will produce strokes that appear
    evenly spaced [\u2026]</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nI am pleased to know that more people
    are aware of casting in a way that produce strokes, but my intention is to (try
    to) find out how exactly this stroke-system works and to prove for instance that
    the fence-posting in Textura type was directly translated to roman type.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames:
    <em>I should like to draw Frank\u2019s attention to the way humanity keeps breaking
    in to these theoretical constructions.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nYes, and that fact makes
    it quite plausible that the Renaissance punch cutters, who were gold smiths from
    origin, applied geometrical systems to standardize, regularize and unitize their
    type.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames: <em>Feliciano says of the letter R that the tail is
    a problem because there is no simple way of making it with a compass [...]</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nA
    serious look at my models will show that these have <strong>nothing</strong> in
    common with the geometrical attempts by Feleciano, Pacioli, Palatino, Cresci,
    D\xFCrer or any of their companions. I am not trying to reconstruct specific letterforms
    (in case of forenamed men specifically the Roman imperial capitals) using rulers
    and compass, but I try to describe the general underlying patterns and constructions
    of type, either Gothic or roman.\r\nBy generalizing geometrical attempts this
    way, I fear that the door is closed by definition for any research in this direction,
    which does not help science I think.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pasletters_2_3561.jpg]\r\nJames:
    <em>[...] I think the wording on the wrappers of these examples needs closer examining:
    what has been quoted does not make sense</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWhat I quoted can be
    read on the photograph, which I place here again. And I will do a close examination
    of these sets and their wrappers, of course.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames: <em>how could
    it be possible to learn anything about the original spacing of a type of Van den
    Keere\u2019s from a casting done at the museum in the 1960s?</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nActually
    I measured the original Renaissance type (both the <em>Gros Canon Romain</em>
    and the <em>Moyen Canon Romain</em>), as you can read above. I only showed the
    type casted in the 1960\u2019s as an example of ignorant fitting.\r\n&nbsp;\r\nJames:
    <em>But I am afraid that it often turns into a kind of enclosed system, isolated
    from the shop floor that we, as compositors and readers, work on.</em>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nThe
    shown models will be applied in software for analysing type and in software for
    designing type. So, there will be no isolation in this case and this makes this
    project part of the real world, I reckon.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Matrices_VdK_2_4097.jpg]\r\nAfter
    measuring the <em>Gros Canon Romain</em> and the <em>Moyen Canon Romain</em> and
    finding the expected standardizations of widths, the next question to answer was
    whether the matrices would show the same standardization. In that case the fitting
    of only <strong>one</strong> set letter of each group (like b,d,g,h,n,o,p,q,v,\uFB01)
    would be necessary and all the other letters of the group could be casted without
    any additional adjustments of the fitting.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Matrices_lining_4623.jpg]\r\nOn
    Tuesday the 11th of January 2011, I measured the matrices in question and found
    the same regularization as in the sixteenth century casted type. The strikes of
    the punches were placed exactly in the \u2018optical\u2019 centre of the matrices.\r\nBelow
    I show a couple of photo\u2019s of the matrices I made with a digital microscope
    camera (specifically meant for checking circuit boards). One can clearly see that
    the images are centered. The following two photo\u2019s show matrices of the <em>Gros
    Canon Romain</em> by Garamond.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/n_grosromain_new_4686.jpg]\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/o_grosromain_new_6708.jpg]\r\nThe
    matrices of the <em>Gros Canon Romain</em> are much more refined than those of
    the <em>Moyen Canon Romain</em> of Van den Keere, as one see below. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_moyencanon_new_4705.jpg]\r\nStill,
    when casting the matrices of Van den Keere could be used directly in the system
    of the <em>Gros Canon Romain</em>, without any adjustments of the fitting. The
    casting was done by Guy Hutsebaut, and I placed a short movie (made with my iPod)
    on <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81ZrfbratSc&feature=mfu_in_order&list=UL\">YouTube</a>.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Measuring_4497.jpg]\r\nBecause
    there are no moulds available which support the bodies of the Gros Canon Romain
    and Moyen Canon Romain, the letters were cast on a body which was too small. For
    testing the (standardization of the) width of the letters, the used mould was
    perfectly suitable though. \r\n&nbsp;\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-14 10:22:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I had forgotten about this thread!  It was good re-reading it!
  created: '2012-02-06 04:47:06'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Wednesday 28 August in the presence of my Expert class Type design (Plantin
    Institute of Typography) students, I tested (again) my theory on standardized
    and systematized Renaissance matrices (you\u2019re all familiar with my <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org\">PhD
    research</a>, I reckon ;-) at the Museum Plantin-Moretus. \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As
    always my friend and former Plantin-Society student (almost 20 years ago) Guy
    Hutsebaut did the actual casting. We used Garamont\u2019s original matrices of
    the <em>Gros Canon Romain</em>. By just centering the lower-case l and adding
    a little bit of space at both sides of the serifs, it was possible to properly
    cast the complete lower case with the same registers setting for the mould. \r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;EcTd-student
    Kees Kanters made a couple of marvelous photo\u2019s and placed them on his <a
    href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/86752592@N03/sets/72157635371578622/\">Flickr
    page</a>\r\n&nbsp;\r\nWith the registers of the mould the character-width is adjusted.
    Fournier describes this in his <em>Manuel Typographique</em> as follows: \u2018<em>The
    lateral spacing of letters is called the set. The correct set is achieved by casting
    the shanks to the exact thickness necessary to make regular intervals between
    the letters. The thickness is regulated by the two registers of the mould, which
    hold the matrix between them. Their position determines the width of the cavity
    between the bodies of the mould, into which \uFB02ows the metal destined to form
    the shank with the letter on its end.</em>\u2019*\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ascendonica_Cursive_3723.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    the distances measured from the edges of the matrices to the bows and stems are
    handled identically for a range of matrices (like in the example with matrices
    of Granjon\u2019s <em>Ascendonica Cursive</em> above), one only has to adjust
    the registers once for this range. That is my hypothesis. In that case one can
    set words with the matrices, and although the spacing is too wide, the amount
    of space between the characters is identical. To obtain a spacing that preserves
    the stem interval, i.e., which matches the size of the counters, one has to apply
    \u2018tracking\u2019. See illustration with 16th-century matrices of Garamont\u2019s
    <em>Gros Canon Romain</em> below; for reducing the spacing I used <em>cadence-units</em>.\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In
    case a character from a range is not exactly cast in the center of its width,
    all other characters will show the same deviation, of course. \r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gros_Canon_Romain_5109.jpg]\r\n\r\n*Harry
    Carter, <em>Fournier on typefounding</em> (New York, 1973) p.158\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-06 16:28:32'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "In my post of 7 January 2011 I showed the transition from textura type to
    Renaissance roman type, and the subsequent limited range of widths of matrices
    for the latter. By limiting this, the striking of the punches (not in single lumps,
    as is written often [always?], but in strokes of copper), which were precut like
    chocolate bars, and the justi\uFB01cation of the matrices was subsequently easier.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Monotype_units_4592.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    early punch cutters had to set up the complete system in a relatively short period.
    The outcome was basically comparable with the widths-standardization (i.e., simpli\uFB01cation)
    for the Monotype hot-metal system. The fact that designs of roman type were in
    general easy to adjust by the Type Drawing Of\uFB01ce for the Monotype 18-units
    arrangement system, could actually be caused by the fact that roman type was initially
    made for a system that required a comparable standardization.\r\n&nbsp;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rosart_3425.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhy
    do 17th- and 18th-century descriptions of the type-founders\u2019 practice by
    for instance Moxon and Fournier not mention the standardization of matrices, which
    I measured in Renaissance type? Could there be a direct relation to the appliance
    of \u2018set patterns\u2019 for the setting of mould registers and the change
    of proportions in type, such as due to the <em>go\xFBt Hollandais</em>? The photo
    above of matrices from Rosart\u2019s <em>Garamonde Romaine</em> obviously doesn\u2019t
    show the forenamed standardizations anymore.\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-09-07 11:48:38'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Standardized Casting 2013: <em><a href=\"http://vimeo.com/74698444\">The
    Movie</a></em>\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-20 09:04:16'
date: '2010-08-30 16:44:08'
title: M- m- and em-square

---
