---
author:
  name: Michael_Rowley
body: "I am an enthusiatic user of optical fonts, i.e. font families intended for
  use at different ranges of size, e.g. text, caption (smaller), subheading (larger),
  and display (largest). But it seems to me that there are comparatively few of these;
  is my impression false? And it it isn't, why should it be? Their use seems to me
  obvious.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'There are very few optical fonts, mostly because few designers know or care
    what they are. '
  created: '2010-09-05 00:28:14'
- author:
    name: Aaron Thesing
    picture: 117597
  body: "I also think for many type families, once you have three or more weights,
    you're well equipped to set type across a broad range of sizes. I think this limits
    designers' need for optical fonts.\r\n\r\nTheir use was not so obvious to me,
    growing up with digital type as the norm (Oh, what I've learned!). I agree with
    James that few designers know what they are. I think I only heard about them 2-3
    years ago, and those were the big Adobe families. I'm delighted and surprised
    by the non-Adobe ones I see from time to time.\r\n\r\nI like them a lot too, but
    I can't imagine how much work they take to create."
  created: '2010-09-05 02:31:37'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: You could/should read Tim Ahrens' book on the subject [[http://markbattypublisher.com/books/typography-monographs-volume-2-size-specific-adjustments-to-type-designs-an-investigation-of-the-principles-guiding-the-design-of-optical-sizes/]]
  created: '2010-09-05 02:53:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Has anybody here read that book?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 15:33:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/67229\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n<em>But it seems to me that
    there are comparatively few of these</em>\r\n\r\nYour list would be longer if
    you included the Thin/Extra Light weights of sans and slab faces, which are not
    intended for text use.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI've produced optical variants of the
    majority of my Serifed type designs, but economically speaking, once the base
    fonts in a family have been made, I would probably have better invested my time
    in more popular genres, i.e. Scripts, Sans Serif, and Slab Serif, rather than
    extending with opticals. It may seem that making display or micro styles isn't
    much work, merely adapting the base fonts, but it's actually extremely time-consuming
    to do all the nuancing -- which is very necessary if the fonts are going to be
    \"displayed\" at large size with every minute detail exposed for inspection.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 16:35:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Part of the problem is that the different optical sizes of a typeface have
    to be sold as separate fonts.\r\n\r\nOne could perhaps use the programmability
    features of TrueType and other modern digital font standards, normally just used
    for hinting, to make a typeface wider and thicker as the size is reduced - but
    then there would be no way to turn that feature <em>off</em>, since word processing
    programs do not, in general - and by \"in general\", I mean all the way down to
    WordPad - allow one to specify an \"effective\" point size in addition to the
    point size used for spacing.\r\n\r\nOld type catalogues, or data from Monotype
    on the set widths of different type sizes, allow one to research what was considered
    a typical increase in width as a typeface was reduced in size, and looking at
    specimens under suitable magnification would help answer the question of thickness."
  created: '2010-09-05 16:51:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... the Thin/Extra Light weights of sans and\r\n> slab faces, which are
    not intended for text use.\r\n\r\nBut that of course is not enough to make an
    optical size, not\r\nleast because of spacing issues (but many other parameters
    too).\r\n\r\n> Part of the problem is that the different optical sizes\r\n> of
    a typeface have to be sold as separate fonts.\r\n\r\nI propose we turn this into
    a <em>feature</em>, by charging almost nothing for the \"regular\" stuff and charging
    much more for the refined stuff. Segue Nick's \"economically speaking\": we charge
    a small fortune for things people who really care need, thus paying for the refined
    effort.\r\n\r\n> One could perhaps use the programmability features of TrueType\r\n\r\nThis
    has sort of been done before.\r\nIt is/was a great idea - I forget why it didn't
    work out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 17:20:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I also think for many type families, once you have three or more weights,
    you're well equipped to set type across a broad range of sizes.</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly
    if you never use serifs. I don\u2019t care how many weights of a serif text face
    you\u2019ve got, it will still look like shit blown up for decorative pull quotes,
    and don\u2019t even get me started on people who use text faces for outdoor advertising.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026we
    charge a small fortune for things people who really care need, thus paying for
    the refined effort.</cite>\r\n\r\nIsn\u2019t that how it\u2019s done now? Do the
    good stuff on commission? ;)\r\n\r\n<cite>It is/was a great idea - I forget why
    it didn't work out.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s actually a pretty bad idea. Designers
    who don\u2019t care shouldn\u2019t be encouraged to let the computer do the typesetting
    for them; designers who do care probably don\u2019t want the computer doing the
    typesetting for them."
  created: '2010-09-05 18:05:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dead right about proper opticals going way\r\nbeyond mere weight variation.
    Scale does\r\nall kinds of stuff.\r\n\r\nGetting commissions is great, but I think\r\nthere's
    room for tiered retail pricing too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 18:29:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: <a href="http://typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100004">HTF
    Didot</a>
  created: '2010-09-05 18:40:30'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>Has anybody here read that book?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. The content is
    great, I'd say the book a must read if you're interested in optical sizes. The
    prices is steep for POD though, and I have some complaints about the publisher/production/quality
    that have put a bit of a damper on the book."
  created: '2010-09-05 19:53:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Their use seems to me obvious.</em>\r\n\r\nThere is rarely a particular
    merit in combining display and text styles from the same family.\r\nIn fact, it
    can be a bit precious.\r\n\r\nMisuse of text faces, in display setting, is a different
    issue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 20:06:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There is rarely a particular merit in combining display and text styles
    from the same family.\r\n\r\nThat sounds like saying it is only second-rate designers
    who would do it\u2014which I don't think is right. Optical sizes, such as Adobe's
    can be used very well together, as intended. Using different families for text
    and display to give more contrast is also a legitimate way to go. But using optical
    sizes together can also be beautiful, if the fonts are good, and I don't think
    is necessarily lazy or second rate. It is just a different look and in the right
    hands be very good. "
  created: '2010-09-05 20:25:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>and don\u2019t even get me started on people who use text faces for
    outdoor advertising.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt has been my experience that a well designed
    text face works much better in large-scale signage than a well designed display
    design."
  created: '2010-09-05 20:35:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Precious? I would call it sober.\r\n\r\n(And if it's precious I guess making
    multiple\r\noptical sizes would itself be that as well...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 20:35:49'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>It has been my experience that a well designed text face works much
    better in large-scale signage than a well designed display design.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    theory I agree, but I\u2019ve seen some really nasty cases of people not following
    up theory with taste. Text faces with little contrast or gaping ink traps can
    be really goofy looking when they\u2019re three feet tall, especially at street
    level."
  created: '2010-09-05 21:08:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>That sounds like saying it is only second-rate designers who would
    do it...</em>\r\n\r\nI said there is rarely merit in combining optical sizes:
    that observation is based on the general practice of designers, of all rates.\r\n\r\nMost
    of the time designers contrast different typefaces in display and text setting
    (even when optical variants are available).\r\n\r\nThe distinction between optical
    sizes of the same face is usually too refined, i.e. precious, to provide sufficient
    stylistic contrast, producing too sober an effect for most layouts. A contrast
    of typefaces is the preferred norm.\r\n\r\nIt is more likely that an optical display
    font of a typeface be used with the text version of another face, than keeping
    it all in the same family. So no, it's not precious to make multiple display opticals,
    because they may well be combined with text in other faces.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 21:11:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A contrast of typefaces is the preferred norm.\r\n\r\nSo is texting while
    driving.\r\n\r\n\"Precious\" is negative; \"sober\" is positive.\r\n\r\n> they
    may well be combined with text in other faces.\r\n\r\nWhich however is not the
    \"preferred norm\" there...\r\nPeople make them to be used together.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 21:27:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>and don\u2019t even get me started on people who use text faces for
    outdoor advertising.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nKind of a fuss-pot way of looking at it
    if you ask me... Somethings may be less likely to work than others, but, if in
    a given situation a text font works on a sign,  it works on a sign. The rules
    are never that rigid and you only limit yourself if you think they are. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 21:36:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If a text font works on a sign, great,\r\nbut then it can't really be a text
    font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 21:47:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Not true.
  created: '2010-09-05 21:49:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We just have different definitions of \"text font\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 21:52:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Wow.  \r\n\r\nMR >But it seems to me that there are comparatively few of
    these [optical sized types]\r\n\r\nAll of the large typeface families we make
    with a wider variety of weights, widths, and sometimes styles modified in contrast/x-height
    for small sizes, serve the needs of composition with optical sizing. Perhaps hiding
    the fact of massive use of optical sized fonts in publications, is the fact these
    large families also give optical styling capabilities, e.g. from delicate to emphatic,
    at a range of sizes. But our users most definitely employ optical-sized font families
    from agate to meters tall, and millions of others do too!?\r\n\r\nHP >But that
    of course is not enough [a bunch of weights] to make an optical size, not least
    because of spacing issues\r\n\r\nAnd so the condensed, extra-condensed and condensed-er
    styles in all weights were born, with the spacing needs of larger sizes in mind!?\r\n\r\nAnon
    >and don\u2019t even get me started on people who use text faces for outdoor advertising.\r\n\r\nIf
    the designer of the outdoor advertisement wants the reader to see it from afar,
    800 to 1000 meters, e.g., don\u2019t even get me started on people who use display
    faces for outdoor advertising!?\r\n\r\nI don't think there are different definitions
    of text, only different perceptions of the import of distance on that issue, and
    on the issue of optical sizing, I'm guessing you all live under rocks somewhere.;)"
  created: '2010-09-05 22:46:58'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "There are few designers working today that are more accomplished with optical
    sizes than Robert Slimbach. I would recommend that anyone who's interested in
    the subject study his work. (Not to suggest most here haven't.) Arno, particularly,
    is worth checking out because Robert felt it necessary to create two text sizes.
    Some might consider that overkill, but I would respond that Robert's judgement
    is very good about these things.\r\n\r\n<cite>There are very few optical fonts,
    mostly because few designers know or care what they are.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe that's
    literally true, but it gives the unfair impression that most professional/practicing
    designers (the people around here, or who show up at TypeCon and ATypI) don't
    know or care. I think it's just as likely that people don't have the time or resources
    to devote to it. Designing a single font is a lot of work. Designing a full family
    is a lot more. Adding an optical size axis to all that is a pretty daunting task
    on a practical level (i.e. if one wants to pay the rent and eat)."
  created: '2010-09-05 22:56:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> And so the condensed, extra-condensed and condensed-er styles in all\r\n>
    weights were born, with the spacing needs of larger sizes in mind!?\r\n\r\n?\r\nWhat
    I meant was that weight variation isn't enough. So for example you can't take
    the Bold of a Regular that was designed for 11 point and use it at 7 (not even
    if you -mercifully- track it looser).\r\n\r\n> I don't think there are different
    definitions of text\r\n\r\nFrom these years of public discussion I've seen one
    important dichotomy: people who believe in the difference between immersive and
    deliberative reading, and those who think it's all the same. For the latter group
    it's very hard to formulate a cogent definition of \"text face\".\r\n\r\n> Some
    might consider that overkill\r\n\r\nI'd say two is a good minimum!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-05 23:38:28'
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: "There are manifestly several\u2014to say the least\u2014opinions on this
    issue. I'll say this at the outset: I don't care much for the solution of adopting
    sans serif with seriffed text (or vice versa), for I think it merely avoids the
    issue. But provision for sizes ranging from 6 pt to 96 pt (as in HFJ Didot) is
    too much for me, as I've never set for formats over A4\u2014and I don't like Didot.\r\n\r\nThe
    answer that all type designers are too young to have heard of adjustments for
    scale, because when they were very young all typesetting was done with with scaled
    types won't wash: one shape fits all sizes didn't work satisfactorily then, and
    it doesn't work now. Anyway, not many of these youngsters seem prepared to say
    that they were ignorant of optical sizes.\r\n\r\nThe answer that different scales
    for different size ranges are acknowledged to be necessary, but won't sell, or
    won't sell enough in view of of the work they entail, deserves consideration:
    as it is, professional type designers have to make a living, and about two hundred
    glyphs were bad enough, but now customers expect OpenType with not less than twice
    that number of glyphs, the type designer that makes that number might be less
    than keen to start work on another few hundred. Let typesetters set Brotschrift! "
  created: '2010-09-06 00:24:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, the Ahrens book is \"Typography Monographs\r\nVol. 2\", which makes
    me wonder, what was Vol. 1?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-06 03:04:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Maybe that's literally true, but it gives the unfair impression that
    most professional/practicing designers (the people around here, or who show up
    at TypeCon and ATypI) don't know or care.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think it\u2019s safe
    to exclude type specialists from my gross generalizations ;)"
  created: '2010-09-06 05:25:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Hrant: <em>People make them</em> [different optical sizes]<em> to be used
    together.</em>\r\n\r\nPeople make them to work together, if typographers are so
    inclined to use them.\r\nBut typographers don't always oblige.\r\nFor instance,
    in my experience, those who license the Display weight of Scotch Modern, or the
    Normal, or the Micro, don't necessarily license the other optical sizes, and only
    a few license the full family, despite the attractive pricing.\r\nAlso, there
    is no guarantee that they won't use the fonts at the \"wrong\" size!"
  created: '2010-09-06 06:44:12'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I for one think optical sizes are potentially a good idea, but should not
    be used together all the time. Cycles for instance has seven optical sizes. I
    licenced three of these (11, 5 and 36) so I have one for captions and small text,
    one for regular text and one for headlines. But I can also use either one of these
    independently, for their intended purpose.\r\n\r\nI think optical sizes are often
    not used or used incorrectly because designers don't know about them and how to
    use them. Typefaces are therefore often used in settings that are not fiiting
    with the character of the font (because of spacing, detailing, x-height etc)\r\n\r\nOld
    URW fonts also have a system of optical sizes, but here the difference lies not
    in character shapes but in spacing. (The T(ext) version to be used for regular
    text, D for display, P for Poster etc.) "
  created: '2010-09-06 12:17:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP> What I meant was that weight variation isn't enough. So for example you
    can't take the Bold of a Regular that was designed for 11 point and use it at
    7 (not even if you -mercifully- track it looser).\r\n\r\nWell, you can use that
    bold at the small end, but the point of that bold is to use it at the larger end
    of text sizes when the regular becomes too spindly. That point joins with the
    point I make above, that optical sizing is everywhere on the large end of the
    size spectrum. With fewer choices on the small end, (because it's small type),
    there is less need for so many agate or real text designs. And then! the web crushes
    the spectrum of possibilities with low resolution joined by dehumanizing rendering
    to provide pressure for fonts made specifically for small sizes on the web. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-06 12:26:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> People make them to work together, if typographers are so\r\n> inclined
    to use them. But typographers don't always oblige.\r\n\r\nYes, but that wasn't
    my point. You wrote: \"it's not precious to make multiple display opticals, because
    they may well be combined with text in other faces.\" This implies that making
    them with the intent of them being used together (which is in fact \"the norm\")
    is precious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-06 15:40:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That was in repsonse to your hypothetical backwards causality between use
    and intent:\r\n\r\n<em>... if it's precious</em> [combining opticals in a layout]
    <em>I guess making multiple\r\noptical sizes would itself be that as well...</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    which I could have better said, to avoid the implication you noted:\r\n\r\n...similarly,
    if mixing opticals with other faces isn't precious, then neither is making multiple
    optical sizes.\r\n\r\nIt might seem like common sense to infer that type usage
    dictates the intent of type designers, but I don't believe that to be the case.
    Obviously, as a type designer, one designs an optical family to work together,
    it's the norm. And one follows the conventions. How else would one go about it?
    And that is the default performance quality one builds into an optical family,
    even though a review of usage might reveal that opticals will mostly be used in
    combination with other typefaces.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I haven't done a survey of
    how opticals are used, so my observations are as anecdotal as anyone else's.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-06 18:21:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'One thing being missed so far is that magazines, newspapers and books have
    their differences which affect the usage of optical sizes. I pretty sure, for
    example, that Simbach thinks of many of his faces as first of all book faces.
    And here what Nick called "sober" about the use of matching display faces might
    just be "appropriate" to long texts that are made to last. '
  created: '2010-09-06 18:31:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact we need much more sobriety these days.\r\n\r\nAlso, such opinions
    could very well be explicitly expressed by a type designer - one doesn't have
    to stay quiet and hope for the best from users. For example during my TypeCon
    talk I not only recommended that type designers take the slanted-Roman more seriously,
    but I also suggested that type users spec them, and even talk to their clients
    about them.\r\n\r\nYou can't get upset by mis-use, but that doesn't equate to
    simply crossing one's fingers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-06 18:53:37'
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: "This blog has turned up, seemingly in response to the recent discussion:\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2010/09/optical-sizes-on-the-web.html#more-703"
  created: '2010-09-11 20:48:13'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>This blog has turned up, seemingly in response to the recent discussion
    ...</cite>\r\n\r\nIt should not be seen as a response. When I mentioned optical
    sizes in our Typekit announcement, I realized at that time that it might be worthwhile
    to come back to the topic with a dedicated post. This thread here turned up coincidentally.\r\n\r\nIf
    it isn't obvious, the point of that blog post is to give some general background
    on optical sizes to those who need it, and to remind users to think about how
    they use them."
  created: '2010-09-13 01:49:11'
- author:
    name: Michael_Rowley
  body: I did say 'seemingly', but your blog was apposite in view of a statement in
    this forum that young type designers might not know what optical fonts are.
  created: '2010-09-13 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Optical sizes can easily fall victim to economics. With metal punches, you
    had to make a different set for every size anyway so there was no added cost.  Phototype
    brought the scalable outline in to play.  Making optical sizes from that point
    forward caused a large increase in production cost and foundries weaned there
    customers away from the optical bosom. There are now decades of type user out
    there who don't know what the thing is and surly don't want to pay more for it.
    But not ALL type users--some foundries (with a large enough customer base of savvy
    type users) still go the extra mile and make them available. The world sells many
    more Chevys than Porsches but the Porsche buyers are a vocal and demanding bunch.
    Porsche dealers don't bother to hawk their wares to the WallMart crowd, though.
  created: '2010-09-13 16:55:02'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: I do think the majority of young <em>type designers</em> know what optical
    sizes are. (It's somewhat dependent on one's definition of "type designer.") The
    problem is that we are now looking at a generation (or generations) of web designers
    who have been using type in relatively simplistic ways up until now. Now we have
    web designers who not only have more typefaces to choose from, but we're making
    optical sizes available to them on top of that. It doesn't hurt to throw in a
    little education, just to be safe.
  created: '2010-09-13 17:20:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>I do think the majority of young type designers know what optical sizes
    are.<<\r\n\r\nType designers, Yes, but what of type \"users\"? Graphic designers,
    editors, etc., I would bet that many of the younger ones don't know and can hope
    that design schools will teach them."
  created: '2010-09-13 17:28:51'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "<cite>Type designers, Yes, but what of type \"users\"?</cite>\r\n\r\nRight,
    type users probably know much less about it. Especially web designers, who, on
    average (I'm guessing) have less graphic design experience and typographic knowledge
    than print designers."
  created: '2010-09-13 17:55:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I would bet that many of the younger ones don't know and can hope that
    design schools will teach them.</cite>\r\n\r\nTeachers don\u2019t always have
    the time. Even in programs that focus on traditional design fundamentals there
    isn\u2019t enough time to teach everything, especially now that entry-level designers
    need to do digital media production work at the level of experienced professionals
    just to get a job. Finding time to shoehorn advanced typographic concepts like
    optical sizes into design curriculum isn\u2019t an option for some programs. And
    for those of us teaching in liberal arts programs at big universities it\u2019s
    just a lost cause."
  created: '2010-09-13 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please don't use \"apposite\".\r\nIt looks just like \"opposite\" but means
    the opposite.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-14 14:33:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>Teachers don\u2019t always have the time.<<\r\n\r\nJust a 10 minute intro
    and a reference to read would be fine for a 101 intro course."
  created: '2010-09-14 15:31:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Just a 10 minute intro and a reference to read would be fine for a
    101 intro course.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s true of a lot of things. But that
    doesn\u2019t mean that there\u2019s time to cram them into a course that\u2019s
    already stretched thin."
  created: '2010-09-14 15:51:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well yeah, opticals is, like, rocket science, and all the brainiacs go into
    law, medicine and business.\r\nNot."
  created: '2010-09-14 16:02:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't understand how people can set type properly unless they are aware
    of optical size. \r\n\r\nFor example, the compositor should know that type usually
    benefits from being tracked tighter at larger sizes (unless the font is designed
    primarily for large size). While you are teaching that\u2014and that, for example,
    caps usually benefit from being tracked out, you can mention that some font families
    have increased contrast \"display\" version that wouldn't work small, but look
    more elegant in larges sizes. And condensed sans for headlines etc. \r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me this kind of stuff is essential to good looking typography. "
  created: '2010-09-14 17:04:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I don't understand how people can set type properly unless they are aware
    of optical size. \r\n\r\nThey don't. The mass of composers from print, used and
    knew about optical size. This section of the forum seems deranged, with all due
    respect, in my opinion. :)\r\n\r\n@Dez:\r\n>Optical sizes can easily fall victim
    to economics.\r\n\r\nBut they never have, as I explain above and below. At the
    large end of optical sizing, money for optical sizes made a font boom \u2013 the
    world-wide 100k of display fonts, (free and commercial), that have been created
    since Fog 1.0. And this says nothing about the text faces funded in the same period!
    \r\n\r\nI think there is simply an error in education, where teaching says \u201CThere
    are 10s of 1000s of fonts out there and no one knows why, now let\u2019s look
    at these optical sized text thingies.\u201D\r\n\r\n>With metal punches, you had
    to make a different set for every size anyway so there was no added cost.\r\n\r\nWell,
    they didn\u2019t usually make all sizes as you know, they usually had a discrete
    set of sizes to decide how to make. This added potential cost in the decisions
    for each size, or range master, i.e. if they didn\u2019t just trace it down to
    a smaller, or up to a larger size,  \u2014 the additional skilled choices and
    testing, were/are the added costs. The drive to do this well and economically
    has been with us all along, but now it is all sizes that are required. \r\n\r\n>Phototype
    brought the scalable outline into play. Making optical sizes from that point forward
    caused a large increase in production cost and foundries weaned there customers
    away from the optical bosom.\r\n\r\nNot so fast, everlast... when phototype came
    in, to replace wood, hot metal headline machines and other large messes, the jobs
    of setting the variety of optically scaled fonts transitioned to different kinds
    of composition systems. Larger sizes were hand set phototype, and small and medium
    set, e.g. with a Linotype VIP, which had different range masters, as did both
    competing systems, the systems before and after. Optical sizes, and range masters
    are there all the time, because professional publishers of many kinds demand(ed)
    it.\r\n\r\n>Porsche dealers don't bother to hawk their wares to the Wall-Mart
    crowd, though.\r\nHave you not been to Webtype.com? \r\n\r\nAnyway, the desktop
    publishing market turned itself from a chaos of optical sizing, to a stratification
    of optical size use in a few years according to the needs of various user markets.
    The web... had 16 years of default faces that were really 10-12 pt text designs,
    and most of the larger optical sizes were produced as graphics with other fonts,
    because the demand for specifically styled, optical sized fonts, are of huge importance,
    and pretty obviously worth the additional composition cost and performance penalty
    all the way up to type composition for web site design. \r\n\r\nsorry, for so
    long a post.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-14 22:29:16'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: ". I don't think there is a lack in typefaces with optical companions.\r\n.
    Scalable type can be beautiful too, using the same typeface in different sizes
    on a page can create a desirable spacial depth that would be destroyed with optical
    sizes.\r\n. There are typefaces that don't require optical companions because
    they come in a reasonable range of weights and widths. Sometimes just weights.
    I would find it really weird for example if there was a release of a Caecilia
    Display or Caecilia Caption, it's such a graciously scalable typeface that it
    would be almost insulting to modify it for various sizes.\r\navailable:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCF4217-1_5581.JPG]\r\nI
    used the display companion because Minion at large sizes looks clumsy and out
    of place (same as any Baroque design). But had I used Premi\xE9ra for example
    I wouldn't have said \"Oh, I wish it had a display version\". \r\n. Some designs
    don't require a display version (mostly angular ones) \r\n. All that said I'm
    a sucker for optical fonts and they certainly come in handy when you want to use
    one typeface for everything on the page."
  created: '2010-09-15 01:13:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's a design problem I faced that to me called for a display size of a
    text font. The design otherwise did't have a sans, and introducing one would make
    the design less coherent and change the tone. On the other side, using a second,
    different serif font looked out of place. So the the best option seemed to be
    a related optical size of the same font. \r\n\r\nSo I drew some display italics
    for my Williams Caslon Text, for titles in my forthcoming book [[http://www.jewishpub.org/product.php?id=444|Pirke
    Avot: Timeless Wisdom for Modern Life]]. \r\n\r\nHere's part of the title page,
    with the red in \"display\" style and the rest in \"text\" style.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Avot_title_grab_5349.png]\r\n\r\n.\r\nAnd
    here's part of the table of contents, again with the red in display style and
    the rest in text style. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Avot_Contents_grab_5933.png]\r\n\r\n.\r\nhere's
    a comparison of text and display sizes side by side. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/display_with_regular_ha_WC_6505.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-15 20:19:58'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "Yep, this is a great example for using optical fonts.\r\nHaving a Display
    typeface in your Caslon Family will give it a technical edge over Adobe Caslon
    :D"
  created: '2010-10-03 01:54:39'
date: '2010-09-05 00:20:52'
node_type: forum
title: Optical fonts

---
