---
author:
  name: kbm
body: 'can anyone help me with whats the best 2 or 3 sans fonts types for body copy
  on very modern clean corporate sites. The size i would tye in around 9 to 10 point
  i think? <BR>Thank You for your help in advance <BR>Kev <BR>ps: also whats the name
  of the font we use for typing our Subject line when we post a message, or the name
  of the font that this forum uses to display our message thats looks like something
  clean and modern, but i dont l know the name? <BR>thanks again'
comments:
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: 'I suppose there are only three you can use anyway, because you have to go
    by what is on the user&#39;s system. My choice: Verdana before Helvetica/Arial.
    <BR> <BR>Next Problem: If you really want to control the output use pixels, they
    come almost same size on most of the systems.  <BR>&#40;There&#39;s is an ever
    ongoing discussion wether to us &#34;em&#34; as a measure.You might consider this,
    too, since it&#39;s relative and you leave choice of type-size at the user&#39;s
    side.&#41; <BR> <BR>The Body Copy of this forum is arround 12 I suppose. &#40;It&#39;s
    done by font-tags, so the measure is the HTML classes for text size: 1, 2, 3,...&#41;
    <BR>Here&#39;s what&#39;s in the font tag:  <BR>&#34;size=1 face=&#34;arial,helvetica,sans-serif&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Your last question should also be answered with this. <BR> <BR>Servus
    <BR> <BR>Dominik'
  created: '2004-10-29 12:37:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Kevin, <BR>you&#39;re talking about imaged text, I presume? Because otherwise
    Dominik is right. <BR>If it&#39;s imaged: What point/pixel/PPEM size are you using?
    It makes a big difference. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-29 15:58:13'
- author:
    name: kbm
  body: thanks guys for your help, <BR>i was talking about normal body copy text and
    fonts. <BR>Its just that some really clean sites have a nice, well line spaced,
    good leading bodies of text and it looks really clear, clean and modern to read,
    not to mention easy to read as well. <BR> <BR>And i have always been fighting
    with myself as to which font/s are the best to use, as you want your site to be
    easy to read and at the same time i want it to look modern and corporate etc.
    <BR> <BR>I seem to always use Arial, can i ask is there any reason you prefer
    Verdana over arial? Is it because it has better leading, character spacing is
    larger? <BR>I would appreciate your answers, and Thanks for your feedback answers,
    they were spot on. <BR>cheers kev
  created: '2004-10-30 16:14:53'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Matthew Carter talked about Verdana&#39;s development at the last TYPO Berlin.
    He said that there are only so many ways to draw an bitmapped letter at only a
    few pixels high
  created: '2004-10-30 17:11:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Verdana is far more readable on screen, both in terms of letter shapes and
    spacing. Arial was a print font that was adapted for screen use. Verdana was designed
    for screen use from the ground up. <BR> <BR>With regards to letter shapes, Arial&#39;s
    relatively closed counters for shapes like a, c, and e make those letters less
    distinctive than they could be at typical on-screen text sizes. <BR> <BR>Try typing
    a sentence. Set it in 9 pt Arial and again right below in 9 pt Verdana. Copy those
    two lines, and do them in 10, 11 and 12 pt. View them on-screen at regular 100%
    zoom. Which text looks more readable to you across the range of sizes. <BR> <BR>Note:
    If you have a Mac, also use 14 and 16 pt. If you have Windows, also use 7 and
    8 pt. This will help compensate for the different ppem ratios of the two OSes
    in normal applications. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2004-10-30 17:18:39'
- author:
    name: kbm
  body: excellent feedback T and Dan <BR>Thank you both very much i will do that T
    <BR>cheers kev
  created: '2004-10-30 18:06:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; One day, Microsoft engineers were looking <BR>&#62; at a comparison
    of on-screen Verdana versus <BR>&#62; on-screen Arial. <BR> <BR>I think it was
    being compared to Tahoma, not Arial. <BR> <BR>Verdana is more readable for the
    reasons cited, but it&#39;s also pretty wide, which can be a problem onscreen.
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>BTW, what do I tell you guys about voting?  :-/ <BR>Voting
    = venting. Resist the self-important urge! <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-30 19:49:38'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Hrant, are you talking about rating other people&#39;s posts on Tphile, or
    about going to the polls on Nov. 2? <BR> <BR>If it&#39;s the latter, then I disagree
    with you. There&#39;s no way you can convince me that the next 4 years won&#39;t
    be better &#40;for the U.S. and the world&#41; with someone other than GWB in
    the White House. So I intend to vote on Tuesday, and I encourage everyone else,
    regardless of party affiliation, to do the same. <BR> <BR>&#40;I&#39;m not unsympathetic
    to your arguments about the merits/workings/fairness of of our electoral system
    -- but in this case, the specter of 4 more years of Bush is too frightening.&#41;
  created: '2004-10-30 21:07:43'
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: I think this one star suits quite good. Could be a little more in golden section,
    but ...
  created: '2004-10-30 21:20:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Verdana is great. It&#39;s open, and has a generous x-height, but at  <BR>anything
    over 12 point, and especially the bold at those sizes,  <BR>it&#39;s very clunky
    &#40;ugly&#41;. I&#39;ve been known to mix Arial and Verdana  <BR>&#40;gasp&#41;...
    using Verdana for body text &#40;11pt, usually&#41; and  <BR>captions &#40;9pt&#41;
    and using Arial for headlines and large call-outs.  <BR> <BR>Mixing sans like
    this is blasphemous in some circles, but on the  <BR>web, where options are limited,
    I find it works well.
  created: '2004-10-30 22:00:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: <i>&#62;There&#39;s no way you can convince me that the next 4 years won&#39;t
    be better &#40;for the U.S. and the world&#41; with someone other than GWB in
    the White House. So I intend to vote on Tuesday, and I encourage everyone else,
    regardless of party affiliation, to do the same.</i> <BR> <BR>This is interesting
    Marc, because it is a contradictory statement. You say that Bush must be voted
    out of the White House, and that everyone should vote, regardless of affiliation
    &#40;i.e., who they would vote for&#41;. We are a 50/50 country
  created: '2004-10-30 22:44:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; look where it has got them. <BR> <BR>Totally, I mean like when&#39;s
    the last time they bombed people? <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-10-30 22:50:48'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Contradictory, Dan? I don&#39;t think so. Unlike Mr. Bush&#39;s party, I want
    my candidate to win because more people support him, rather than by suppressing
    the votes of the other side. I&#39;d like to see record voter turnout &#42;and&#42;
    a Kerry victory.
  created: '2004-10-30 23:19:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Well, I agree with half of your statement; I&#39;d like to see a record turn-out,
    too. But neither possible outcome will satisfy me in the presidential election
    this time.
  created: '2004-10-30 23:41:34'
- author:
    name: kbm
  body: 'Yes Joe, <BR>i agree i have just been trying different combinations and i
    funny enough arrived at almost the same 2 combos. <BR> <BR>For body copy i used
    Verdana at 11 point looks nice and clean with a bit of line spacing. <BR>I even
    took the colouring back to 70% black and it opened the page up very nicley and
    was still nice to and easy to read. <BR> <BR>Small Headlines and Captions I actually
    do prefer Arial at around 12 point bold.  <BR> <BR>I find thats a nice clean combination.
    <BR>Although i wouldnt use the same 2 together in my graphic design for printed
    materials for example. <BR> <BR>To you all, thank you very much for the time you
    have invested in giving the feedback you did, its beens a big help especially
    now that i have a final workable solution. <BR>Thanks and Cheers <BR>Kev <BR>
    <BR>PS: 1 last question, as you mentioned Verdana can get a bit wide sometimes,
    can we apply tracking to the body copy with HTML or CSS sheets and close the letter
    spacing up a bit to combat this problem for the web?? <BR> <BR>Cheers Kev'
  created: '2004-10-31 00:00:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Negative-tracking a pixelfont is dangerous, although in rare cases useful.
    <BR>However, <i>positive</i>-tracking pixelfonts can often be useful, since so
    many of them use 1 pixel letterspacing when they should be using 2. <BR> <BR>Hmmm,
    I wonder if InDesign can be made to optical-space in 125 unit increments only...
    <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-10-31 01:16:09'
- author:
    name: lettertiep
    picture: 110360
  body: "&#60; avoiding the bush-kerry debate... &#62; <BR> <BR>Ummm <BR> <BR>I&#39;
    don&#39;t know how many of you have experience with CSS, but we try to avoid the
    &#34;point/pixel-problem&#34;&#40; as Thomas described&#41; by defining the font-size
    &amp; lineheight in Ems.  <BR> <BR>like:  <BR> <BR>.bodycopy &#123; <BR>\tfont-family:
    Verdana, Arial, sans-serif; <BR>\tfont-size: 1em; <BR>\tline-height: 0.2em; <BR>&#125;
    <BR> <BR> <BR>that way, the font-size depends on the configuration of the user.
    If I&#39;m not mistaken, an Em in Web-typography is the size predefined in the
    control panel of the browser or the size defined in the parent object. For better
    info see: <a href=\"http://www.meyerweb.com/eric/articles/webrev/199910.html\">
    More fun with font-sizes by Eric Meyer</a> <BR> <BR>Anyway, to answer your question:
    yes you can define &#40;negative&#41; letter-spacing &#40;css-property: letter-spacing&#41;
    with CSS, but alas, is a little bit flaky. Especially in IE. It&#39;s a bit of
    trial &amp; error really... <BR> <BR>letter&#60;/font&#62;"
  created: '2004-10-31 11:24:49'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;I&#39;m for the electoral college...There aren&#39;t any real democracies
    in the world <BR> <BR>Dan, <BR> <BR>Dumping the electoral college would be the
    first step towards making a real democracy out of the US. <BR>In the UK, history
    and geography are held up as reasons why we don&#39;t have a democratic electoral
    system, but in the US, there doesn&#39;t seem to be any reason for it. <BR>&#40;Of
    course, a democratic electoral system is only a small step towards a democracy,
    and a democracy is only a small step towards a fair society, but they are necessary
    steps nonetheless&#41;.'
  created: '2004-10-31 20:26:46'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: A republic, run on democratic principles, doesn&#39;t necessarially preclude
    that its citizens won&#39;t live in in freedom. Like most American schoolchildren,
    I grew up thinking that America was the only &#34;free country&#34; in the whole
    world. Now, living in Europe, I realize how not true that is. Granted, the United
    States is older than every European democracy, except maybe Holland&#39;s, but
    the continent is now filled with free, &#34;democratic&#34; societies, which are
    all Republics too. <BR> <BR>Hurray for Republics! <BR> <BR>Of course, in many
    ways, the United States is more of a &#34;democratic&#34; republic than most European
    examples. At least in the United States, we have a much more direct method of
    electing our chief executive. Compare Tuesday&#39;s election with how the UK and
    Germany &#40;and even Canada&#41; choose their Prime Ministers.
  created: '2004-10-31 20:43:15'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;the United States is older than every European democracy <BR> <BR>Not
    sure about that. <BR>&#40;I assume you meant &#39;democracy in the United States
    is older than democracy in any European nation&#39; I think you would struggle
    to convince many historians of that one. Maybe I misunderstood&#41;. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Hurray
    for Republics <BR>As opposed to what? <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;...a much more direct
    method of electing our chief executive. Compare Tuesday&#39;s election with how
    the UK and Germany &#40;and even Canada&#41; choose their Prime Ministers. <BR>
    <BR>But a different thing happens in the UK, Germany, and other places. Here we
    don&#39;t elect the executive. We elect a local representative, those representatives
    constitute the &#40;main body of the&#41; legislature, and the executive is drawn
    from the members of the legislative body. <BR>Its this process, the need for local
    representatives and the presence of a significant third party that allows anti-democrats
    to hide behind this system and deny us a democratic electoral system &#40;though
    one is available&#41;. <BR>I can&#39;t imagine what reasons a sane person could
    find for the US not just having the candidate with the most votes, winning the
    election. <BR>In whatway does the electoral college promote democracy?'
  created: '2004-10-31 21:27:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: <i>&#62;Not sure about that.  <BR>&#40;I assume you meant &#39;democracy in
    the United States is older than democracy in any European nation&#39; I think
    you would struggle to convince many historians of that one. Maybe I misunderstood&#41;.</i>
    <BR> <BR>Well, our republic was founded when the US Constitution was ratified
    in 1789. England, although its Parliamentary tradition dates back to the 1600s,
    or even the 1200s, did not even have universal white protestant male sufferage
    until at least 1848. The German republic was founded in 1949, and the current
    French republic in 1958. etc
  created: '2004-10-31 21:57:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Totally, I mean like when&#39;s the last time </i>[the Swiss<i> bombed
    people?</i> <BR> <BR>A few years ago they invaded and almost totally overran Lichtenstein,
    but that turned out to be an accident. A contingent of Swiss soldiers was on an
    exercise in the east of the country and received orders to move to a particular
    latitude and longitude: someone must have typed one of the numbers wrong, though,
    because they ended up in the middle of some town in Lichtenstein.'
  created: '2004-11-01 01:55:57'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'There seems to be some misinformation in this thread. Online, typography
    can&#39;t be set at any size. That&#39;s the nice thing about online type...the
    end-user gets to control it. Without going into all of the arguments for/against
    certain type sizing online, I&#39;ll just say this: <BR> <BR> - points are for
    print...not screen measurements <BR> - pixels do not mean it will render the same
    in all browsers or will be non-resizable in any browser  <BR> - ideally, if everyone
    knew how to adjust their browser settings, you&#39;d set body type at 100% &#40;and
    this is the point of debate&#41;. <BR> <BR>As for the electoral collage, it is
    an outdated method that serves no purpose in today&#39;s world. It made sense
    in the 1800s--not in the 2000s.'
  created: '2004-11-01 16:11:16'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;...our republic was founded when the US Constitution was ratified
    in 1789. England...did not even have universal white protestant male sufferage
    until at least 1848... <BR> <BR>But just as England had a parliamentary system
    many years before it even came close to being a democracy, the US was still way
    off being a democracy for many years after the constitution was ratified in 1789.
    In 1789 only <i>rich</i>, white adult males got the vote. Women had to wait until
    1920. African Americans had to wait until 1870, American citizens of Chinese ancestry
    had to wait until 1943 - even Native Americans had to wait until 1924. And in
    practice, for most non-white Americans, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 marked the
    advent of a near-democratic electoral system.  <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Well, in the
    US, we get to vote for both our local representatives in Congress AND for President
    &#40;even if we elect him indirectly&#41;.  <BR> <BR>This happens in the UK too,
    but both things are combined into one election process. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;In
    whatway does the electoral college promote democracy? <BR>&#62;I never said it
    did. <BR> <BR>OK, sorry. I misunderstood - when you said &#39;I&#39;m for the
    electoral college&#39; I couldn&#39;t think why anyone would be for the electoral
    college, and assumed there must be some argument that it promotes democracy. If
    it doesn&#39;t promote democracy what does it do? <BR> <BR>==================================
    <BR>================================== <BR> <BR>One thing that I keep hearing
    here at the moment is &#39;Why does the US make elections so complicated?&#39;
    Not so much in terms of the electoral college, but more in terms of the voting
    arrangements, voting machines etc. No US state has a population more than half
    the size of Britain, yet here with turnout usually well over 70%, many areas having
    more than the usual 5 or 6 candidates, and a voting system that uses nothing more
    than paper and pencils, we get a fairly accurate count, returned by about 7am
    the morning after the election.'
  created: '2004-11-01 17:22:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; Why does? <BR>&#62; Why this? <BR>&#62; Why that? <BR> <BR>Dude, are
    these rhetorical questions? <BR>Because when you look at the core foundations
    of the US, all the answers &#40;like why an Electoral College exists today&#41;
    are pretty obvious. Wake up from the formalistic discourse - all it does is prolong
    the downward spiral we&#39;re in. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-01 17:28:52'
- author:
    name: secondtoughest
    picture: 110127
  body: I prefer Verdana for a good sans face and Georgia for a serif face. I use
    Georgia on my site because it fits the look of the site better. <BR> <BR>I hope
    Kevin wasn&#39;t scared away from Typophile being that his first thread was hijacked
    and turned political. Yes, he got his answer, but I doubt he was expecting this.
  created: '2004-11-01 18:47:35'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;Dude, are these rhetorical questions? <BR> <BR>No <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Because
    when you look at the core foundations of the US, all the answers &#40;like why
    an Electoral College exists today&#41; are pretty obvious <BR> <BR>Not to me.
    <BR>There are two categories of answers, BTW, excuses and reasons - I can&#39;t
    think of anything that would fit into either category. &#40;Except, maybe, that
    it makes campaigning cheaper, but that&#39;s hardly a compelling reason for undermining
    legitimacy&#41; <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;Wake up from the formalistic discourse
    - all it does is prolong the downward spiral we&#39;re in.  <BR> <BR>Hrant, I
    disagree. I think you probably know that I&#39;m as unconvinced by global capitalism
    as you are, but for me, there is a point in discovering exactly what&#39;s wrong
    with it. The reason for that is so that we move on in the right direction, which
    as everyone else knows, is exactly the opposite direction from monarchism.'
  created: '2004-11-01 20:09:03'
- author:
    name: dana
    picture: 110331
  body: With apologies for contributing to the hi-jacking of this thread &#40;and
    kudos to David Maloney for pointing us in the more appropriate direction&#41;...
    <BR> <BR><i>discovering exactly what&#39;s wrong with it.</i> <BR> <BR>...I
  created: '2004-11-01 21:20:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Huh, sounds just like the Communist Manifesto!  :-/ <BR>Human nature precludes
    the true success of both Communism and Capitalism. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-11-01 21:27:33'
- author:
    name: dana
    picture: 110331
  body: <i>...Huh, sounds just like the Communist Manifesto! :-/ </i> <BR> <BR><i>if</i>  this
    comment pertains to my suggestion... <BR> <BR>I guess to someone who won
  created: '2004-11-01 21:40:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I don&#39;t need to read what you&#39;re reading to simply comment that you
    sound too eager to believe your system can work. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think the
    bible, torah or qur&#39;aan contain much usable insight, much less an apologetic
    feel-good coping effort written for the bourgeoisie by some shmoe. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-11-01 21:44:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'And if you want a book recommendation, here&#39;s one: <BR>&#34;Against the
    masses: varieties of anti-democratic thought since the French Revolution&#34;,
    by J V Femia. Although you&#39;ll still have to put the spineless apologetics
    of the author in context. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-01 21:56:28'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: OK, I should also apologise for the hijacking of this thread. But, while we&#39;re
    here...  <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;The Mystery of Capitalism by Hernando de Soto  <BR>
    <BR>de Soto comes across as a little too much like that Fukuyama idiot that captured
    a lot of media attention a few years back. I have to admit that I didn&#39;t read
    his book properly, but I read enough to know that some of the things he claims
    to have &#39;discovered in the history books&#39; had been discovered about a
    hundred and fifty years before, and are, or have been, the subject of intense
    academic debate.
  created: '2004-11-01 22:31:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Wow, I think Dana just got trounced by Hrant in proxy for <BR>William. I think
    that&#39;s a first. Since I read Bringhurst&#39;s book,  <BR>which William also
    heartedly recommends, am I next?
  created: '2004-11-01 22:33:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Unlikely, since I&#39;ve been trouncing you since before William showed up.
    <BR> <BR>But anyway, I get pissed when attacked with the assumption that somebody
    has to be the literary superset of somebody else to think they&#39;re wrong. It&#39;s
    not what you read, it&#39;s what you think. <BR> <BR>BTW, don&#39;t forget to
    Rock the Revote! <BR><a href="http://www.theonion.com/news/index.php?issue=4043"
    target="_blank">http://www.theonion.com/news/index.php?issue=4043</a> <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-11-01 22:48:45'
- author:
    name: dana
    picture: 110331
  body: 'Trounced by someone who thinks de Soto sounds like the Communist Manifesto?
    <BR> <BR>Not trounced; just bored with the same old '
  created: '2004-11-01 23:12:29'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Now I&#39;m going to shut up because I want to look into this  <BR>republic
    vs. democracy thing before it comes up again in, let&#39;s  <BR>see, about 1.5
    days. <BR> <BR>Ahem, and in the meantime, I&#39;ll still be mixing Verdana and
    Arial.
  created: '2004-11-01 23:43:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: <i>&#62;Contradictory, Dan? I don&#39;t think so. Unlike Mr. Bush&#39;s party,
    I want my candidate to win because more people support him, rather than by suppressing
    the votes of the other side. I&#39;d like to see record voter turnout &#42;and&#42;
    a Kerry victory.</i> <BR> <BR>Well, Marc, thankfully the did United States have
    record turnout
  created: '2004-11-03 12:56:19'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: Dan, <BR> <BR>There&#39;s one here who thinks the electoral college is a crap
    idea whoever wins. <BR> <BR>&#40;People queuing for several hours to vote is also
    a crap idea, along with electronic and mechanical voting machines - there&#39;s
    an English phrase about organising a p1ss-up in a brewery and it springs to mind  every
    time I see the news at the moment&#41;.
  created: '2004-11-03 13:28:14'
- author:
    name: dana
    picture: 110331
  body: Being originally from California, I have studied American history &#40;more
    acurately called U.S. history&#41; quite a bit and am aware of the motivation
    and rationale for the electoral college
  created: '2004-11-03 19:56:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'And most importantly, exactly how does it make any real long-term difference?  :-/
    <BR> <BR>&#62; how many Califiornian electoral college votes were awarded to each
    candidate? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s all or nothing &#40;per state&#41;. That&#39;s at
    the heart of this farce. <BR> <BR>The reasons for the Electoral College are obvious:
    <BR>1&#41; Makes the election much easier to rig, like in 2000. <BR>2&#41; Avoids
    the bad aftertaste of your president being elected by 1% of the popular vote.
    You get a nice big number as the difference. Sort of like points systems in arcade
    games. <BR> <BR>Banana republic, except with imported bananas culled from de facto
    slave labor. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2004-11-03 20:07:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/3977295.stm" target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/3977295.stm</a>
    <BR> <BR>It seems that Americans &#40;at least in Colorado&#41; don&#39;t really
    care for Democracy. Unless of course it serves as an excuse to rape and pillage.
    Fits in the overall trend towards telling other people how to live their lives,
    like not be gay. Free, tolerant society my finial. A model for the world, eh?
    Pathetic, provincial peons. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2004-11-03 21:27:24'
- author:
    name: golfomat
    picture: 110117
  body: Man, you guys really seem to like that other guy. <BR>At least that&#39;s
    what is received in Germany. We know that you can cope a lot, there was no need
    to prove it for another four years. <BR> <BR>Hope you feel a lot more secure now.
    Not that I want to accuse all the americans - just the absolute majority.  <BR>
    <BR>This phenomenon is like an inverted gaussian-curve. Very low level in the
    middle and intellectully rising on both extremes. What about splitting the country
    twice. Give it to the russians, man, they errected only one, small, wall. You&#39;d
    have the chance for two - and they&#39;d be huge. <BR> <BR>Excuse me for being
    so sarcastic, but there are few options left. <BR> <BR>Servus <BR> <BR>Dominik
  created: '2004-11-03 22:29:14'
date: '2004-10-29 11:08:25'
title: Best Sans Font For Web Body Copy

---
