---
author:
  name: blank
body: "This semester I decided to add a banned fonts list to the syllabus for my typography
  class. I did this not because I don\u2019t want to see certain fonts, but because
  I feel that some students get hung up on simple office and academic document styles
  because it\u2019s all they know, and I hope that taking away the fonts they associate
  with such work will push them creatively without discouraging critiques. I\u2019ve
  tried to just ban a few common fonts without going after (relatively) less commonly
  used system fonts like Futura, Palatino, and Hoefler Text. And my students all have
  access to lab computers with excellent font collections. Am I missing anything in
  this list?\r\n\r\nArial\r\nCentury Gothic\r\nGeorgia\r\nHelvetica\r\nImpact\r\nPapyrus\r\nTimes
  New Roman\r\nTrebuchet\r\nVerdana\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I remember reading about design students overusing Futura (at Design Observer,
    I think). Perhaps it should go. At least Futura Bold for blockbuster movies. And
    while I\u2019m at it: Trajan.\r\n\r\nOther:\r\nHaettenschweiler and Tw Cen MT"
  created: '2010-09-07 18:00:48'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I remember reading about design students overusing Futura\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    do, but not because they\u2019re used to using it in generic contexts. And comparing
    text set in Futura with a text face is always a good lesson. And as for Trajan,
    I doubt most of my students will even know what it is."
  created: '2010-09-07 18:05:01'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Ban nothing and let your prejudices come out during the crits. Public humiliation
    is the best way to enforce your views on your students. '
  created: '2010-09-07 18:39:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I suppose Comic Sans is OK, then? ;-)
  created: '2010-09-07 18:43:28'
- author:
    name: Aure
    picture: 119509
  body: "I'm curious to know what will be coming out of this font restriction...\r\nI
    think it could be a \"tough\" but positive way to boost your students creativity."
  created: '2010-09-07 18:58:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Ban nothing and let your prejudices come out during the crits. Public
    humiliation is the best way to enforce your views on your students.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    misinterpreting this. My goal is to teach students to work with type in ways that
    they don\u2019t already. I don\u2019t teach at an art school, so many of my students
    will have little experience with type aside from stuff like school papers, resumes,
    and basic office work. They only get one semester of typography in this program\u2014which
    is also their core design class\u2013so it\u2019s important that I get them to
    think beyond the basics ASAP."
  created: '2010-09-07 19:25:05'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I sort of agree with sii...though maybe toning down the humiliation part.
    ;)\r\n\r\nCritique, IMHO, is a huge part of design school...both giving and taking.
    If a student used Georgia, AND they can justify the use of it in the piece, more
    power to them. If they can't, then that comes out in the critique with the class.
    \r\n\r\nEDIT...ack...just read your comment that it's not an art/design school.
    So scratch the above. What kind of degrees are these students pursuing? "
  created: '2010-09-07 20:21:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: To students in a beginner-level class, I wonder if the word "banned" might
    imply that these are bad fonts, when in fact fonts like Helvetica and Times are
    good fonts that have just been overused. I'm not sure what other word to suggest,
    though.
  created: '2010-09-07 20:21:54'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>What kind of degrees are these students pursuing?</cite>\r\n\r\nSome
    are art students concentrating on design, but I can also get anything from history
    to English to business. So while it would be nice to work everything out in three
    years of critiques, time is not a luxury I have.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026I wonder if
    the word \"banned\" might imply that these are bad fonts\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    use the word \u201Cforbidden\u201D in my syllabus and it will be made clear that
    these are only forbidden in the context of this class. "
  created: '2010-09-07 20:39:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>my students all have access to lab computers with excellent font collections</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    all of your forbidden fonts are excellent, in their own ways and for specific
    purposes. Instead of forbidding their use, perhaps you might suggest that they
    not be used except for \"good cause,\" which the student would be allowed to offer
    and defend. One man's fish is another man's poisson..."
  created: '2010-09-07 20:44:10'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Nick, the point of this is not to keep the students from using fonts that
    I don\u2019t like. It\u2019s to take away some of their most common tools and
    force them to find new ones."
  created: '2010-09-07 21:43:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James, it's likely to go down better with students if you put it positively:
    \"To get your creative juices flowing, we're going to do an activity where you
    use new fonts, not one of the standard ones available that you're familiar with...\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-07 22:08:44'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>the point of this is not to keep the students from using fonts that I
    don\u2019t like.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't think it was, and I apologize if that's
    the impressions I conveyed in my post. What I DID say is that font choices should
    be thoughtful; I am reasonably confident that we could agree that, if the subject
    were\u2014say\u2014\"mindless conformity,\" that Arial or Times New Roman would,
    in fact, be excellent choices."
  created: '2010-09-08 00:02:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since the lab computers have excellent collections of fonts, I suppose that
    the students will not have much of a problem substituting Baskerville, or Century
    Expanded, or Caledonia, say, for Times New Roman for... prosaic... purposes.\r\n\r\nI
    see you did ban Papyrus; in that case, I'd almost say \"why bother\", but perhaps
    there will be an assignment that will now challenge them to find another face
    that says something similar."
  created: '2010-09-08 00:23:23'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "The goal here is to get students to think critically about the type they
    chose? I wonder if it would be more instructive work it in reverse and charge
    a $100 material fee for purchase of no more than 2 fonts. They would need to use
    those fonts, and only those fonts for the semester (or quarter). Would be eye-opening
    and probably painful for some! (you might have a vetted list). What does it mean
    to own a font? What is good value? How to wring the most from your type? Alternatively,
    you could have them select one text face and one display face from the library
    to use for the semester.\r\n\r\nPerhaps a semester is a bit long :-/"
  created: '2010-09-08 05:04:51'
- author:
    name: twiggy
    picture: 120535
  body: 'Limiting fonts used isn''t a bad idea, we once did a project during my degree
    where the class was provided with only the option of 3 fonts and it was surprisingly
    enjoyable and impressive to see different takes on them used in a simple invitation
    design. '
  created: '2010-09-08 11:11:06'
- author:
    name: javierga
  body: "Calibri?\r\n\r\nI imagine they'll end up using office 2007 at some point..."
  created: '2010-09-08 12:54:00'
- author:
    name: visualspark
  body: Yeah Calibri.. Dont forget the Apple default for the hip new iKids, Myriad
    or Lucida.
  created: '2010-09-08 13:39:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "If, when one takes away \"students\" most common types (default fonts), which
    have been bundled for their flexibility and produced for high quality results,
    and thus are quite often used correctly by students for non-design things they
    do everyday, one should also be asking them to do things with fonts quite different
    from what they do everyday, it seems to me. \r\n\r\nSo, ban shman, if you \"don\u2019t
    want to see certain fonts\" you just have to give them design problems that would
    be demonstrably better with something else. "
  created: '2010-09-08 13:44:39'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Dear James,\r\n\r\nI am of the belief that typography professional should
    be able, or at least try, to make the best use of <em>any</em> typeface, overused
    or underused. Even if I don\u2019t like it. This is what I teach\u2026 I see no
    point in blacklisting typefaces, Arial, or Papyrus, or Comic Sans, or Souvenir,
    or whatever. This restriction may send the students a wrong message: that typography
    is about using pretty fonts. Which it isn\u2019t. It\u2019s like Vignelli said,
    \u2018In other words, it\u2019s not the type but what you do with it that counts\u2019."
  created: '2010-09-08 15:24:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Banned in Boston was a sure way to get a movie to be a blockbuster hit.\r\nTruthfully,
    there is no font that should be banned.  Teach them how to use fonts, not how
    to create prejudices about them.\r\nWhen your students look back at your class
    in 20 years, this is not what you want them to remember from you. "
  created: '2010-09-08 15:51:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm with Twiggy and Maxim.\r\nGive them all the same project and the same
    typeface to work with.\r\nMaking the typeface part of the brief is consistent
    with working in-house for a corporate brand or a publication, where there is no
    choice in the matter.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 16:20:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For one of my earliest typography assignments from Ken Hiebert, we were all
    given the same galley proof with all the text for a mail-order book store. The
    text was all set in one font in one size and strung together in a continuous stream.
    The assignment was to design a sensible and easy to use order form, using only
    space and positioning as a means. We had 3 hours to design and paste it up.\r\nI
    learned more in that three hours about using type than at any other time in my
    life."
  created: '2010-09-08 16:42:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I bet you hated it at the time, though.
  created: '2010-09-08 16:52:13'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: Dez, I enjoyed your last entry so much I felt the need to click the "Like"
    button, but alas, it wasn't there...
  created: '2010-09-08 16:55:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/likebutton_3982.png]'
  created: '2010-09-08 16:57:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Nick, Actually, only the first 10 minutes were glum-faced. We soon got past
    the WTF part and were entranced in the world of "movable" type .
  created: '2010-09-08 16:58:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The point of the assignment was that all typography problems come with constraints--they
    often seem unreasonable to a design student. After they graduate and work a few
    years, they find that real-world client constraints can be even more stifling.
    What you learn is that constraints open up a micro world which you never would
    have noticed if you had all avenues open to you.  I learned to LOVE constraints.
    It was much easier if space, time, and architecture were limited--even if it WAS
    more challenging.
  created: '2010-09-08 17:09:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I learned to LOVE constraints.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. Although constraints
    can be frustrating, they force you to think."
  created: '2010-09-08 19:03:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Making the typeface part of the brief is consistent with working in-house
    for a corporate brand or a publication, where there is no choice in the matter.</cite>\r\n\r\nWonderful
    idea, Nick. I\u2019ll definitely start approaching some project briefs this way."
  created: '2010-09-08 21:19:43'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Speaking as an in-house designer who has spent years working with Helvetica,
    and for whom it was a big day when my employer switched to a different typeface
    for signage, I second Nick's advice :o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-09 01:56:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nonetheless, I also think that being able to choose an appropriate, non-standard
    typeface, and set it well, is an important thing to learn. So I do like your idea,
    James.\r\n\r\nBut if you specify a less familiar face (or combination thereof)
    to work with, then they will have to address working with it from scratch, and
    that face will act as a benchmark for the class as a whole, so that comparing
    their work amongst themselves will be a  useful educational process.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-09 03:29:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It certainly is true that an assignment where the typeface is chosen is a
    useful exercise. But I don't think that has relevance to whether or not a banned
    font list is a good idea.\r\n\r\nPresumably, many different types of exercise
    belong in a typography course. Some that address working with elements other than
    choice of typeface. Some that address working with a very limited choice of typeface
    - in which case, in real-world situations, it might well be that the only fonts
    available would form a list very similar to the banned font list here.\r\n\r\nBut
    some exercises might well involve an open-ended choice of typeface. In that case,
    banning the most well-known typefaces to encourage the students to more fully
    explore the alternatives available seems an entirely reasonable thing to do.\r\n\r\nSince
    this is an introductory course, though, some of the students may not be familiar
    with too many different typefaces; operating systems don't come with a simple
    command that says \"create a specimen sheet of all the fonts installed on the
    system\". (One older word processor puts the entry in the drop-down menu for each
    face in that face, but that can clearly cause problems with symbol fonts.) So
    I could imagine some students simply experiencing difficulty in finding a suitable
    face for an assignment because they don't know where to look.\r\n\r\nSo I hope
    their textbooks or other course materials give them an idea of what a number of
    different faces look like, so they have a reference point to start from."
  created: '2010-09-09 08:23:35'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>operating systems don't come with a simple command that says
    \"create a specimen sheet of all the fonts installed on the system\".</em></li></ul>No,
    they don\u2019t. That happens to be one of the first assignments I give to my
    students: \u2018Make an inventory of the fonts you have on your computer, and
    try to break them into groups with shared characteristics\u2019 (at that point
    we discuss the existing classification systems and, what\u2019s very important,
    the <em>classifiable features</em> of the typefaces)."
  created: '2010-09-09 11:56:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maxim.\r\nI once had a designer working for me who categorized her fonts
    with very intriguing categories:\r\n\r\nCurly things\r\nOld looking stuff\r\nSwissy\r\nLadies
    Home Journal\r\nBoy Toys\r\n\r\nShe had good reasons for such names and it worked
    better for her than Oldstyle, Transitional, and Modern :-)"
  created: '2010-09-09 15:21:03'
- author:
    name: robb
    picture: 109473
  body: maybe force them to use a selection of curated free fonts for an assignment,
    then make them manually kern them compared to the originals undoubtedly knocked
    off? Teaches "you get what you pay for," spacing, and the ability to hunt for
    variety that you want to encourage.
  created: '2010-09-09 17:23:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Dez, I had the same impulse as Raymond. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/73943#comment-428758\">Your
    comment</a> is a keeper.\r\n\r\nJames, I did things two different ways. There
    were assignments where I assigned the typeface because the practice of setting
    type was more important than picking the typeface. And there were assignments
    where I'd leave it open to them. But I did have a conversation with the students
    that always discussed what the system fonts are there for and when and why they
    might be used. I am sure I had some snarky things to say as to why we'd never
    use them in print, but at the end of the day I was trying to show the students
    that the system fonts, while not strictly verboten, were not appropriate in their
    work."
  created: '2010-09-09 17:34:37'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>at the end of the day I was trying to show the students that
    the system fonts, while not strictly verboten, were not appropriate in their work.</em></li></em>\r\nWhat
    exactly do you mean by \u2018system fonts\u2019? Fonts used by, or shipping with,
    operating systems, Windows or Mac OS? Like Tahoma, Lucida Grande, etc.? Or installed
    with a browser? Or all fonts that come with applications, like Adobe CS5, or MS
    Office?</ul?"
  created: '2010-09-09 20:19:08'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: "<em>@Tiffany</em> \r\nYour link currently points to a different post than
    I was referring to. I was actually talking about <a href=\"#comment-428770\">this
    one</a>. ; )"
  created: '2010-09-09 21:16:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Curly things\r\n>Old looking stuff\r\n>Swissy\r\n>Ladies Home Journal\r\n>Boy
    Toys\r\n\r\nThese categories work equally well for every object currently in my
    office. "
  created: '2010-09-09 21:27:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maxim, I meant fonts that ship with the OS (mac or windows). I never told
    the students not to use the fonts which shipped with Adobe's software. But, and
    again, I did ALWAYS emphasize that because so many people had access to the Adobe
    fonts that they would be able to impart more own-ability for their clients by
    use fonts that weren't used as much.
  created: '2010-09-09 23:42:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Raymond: Oh. That one is great as well.'
  created: '2010-09-09 23:43:00'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<ul><li><em>I meant fonts that ship with the OS (mac or windows).</em></li></ul>\r\n\r\nDo
    you really consider <em>all</em> those system fonts, both <a href=\"http://support.apple.com/kb/ht1642\">Mac</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/product.aspx?PID=161\">Windows</a>,
    unusable? Why? Some of them are excellent, and some very good."
  created: '2010-09-10 02:21:28'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: Any font can look good when used properly and smartly. Heck a turd could look
    good if the positive and negative space are harmonious. :-O
  created: '2010-09-10 08:34:38'
- author:
    name: dave nalle
    picture: 113027
  body: "I've actually written several articles exactly on this topic, ironically
    targeting some of my own designs which I feel have been extremely overused.  In
    particular I take exception to the excessive use of my Abaddon font, which seems
    to appear on every bad metal band logo or album cover ever since it was used for
    their logo by Godsmack.\r\n\r\nI think the original article on the topic is on
    my old blog which isn't accessible anymore, unfortunately, but you can see the
    font by searching at http://www.fontcraft.com\r\n\r\nDave"
  created: '2010-09-10 15:26:15'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>In particular I take exception to the excessive use of my Abaddon font,
    which seems to appear on every bad metal band logo or album cover ever since it
    was used for their logo by Godsmack.</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve noticed that as well,
    but Abaddon is much better than back when everything metal/goth/industrial was
    set in Morpheus. And really, that\u2019s what you get for naming a font after
    a wargaming fiction character who\u2019s quite popular with metalheads ;)"
  created: '2010-09-10 22:33:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>... I take exception to the excessive use of my Abaddon font ... </em>\r\n\r\nThe
    gentleman doth protest too much."
  created: '2010-09-10 23:55:55'
- author:
    name: A Pen Name and That A
  body: "Yeah, Dave, let me help you: \r\n\r\nATTENTION: DAVE NALLE'S FONTS ARE VERY
    POPULAR!"
  created: '2010-09-21 22:18:37'
- author:
    name: geoh777
  body: Banning, restricting, removing choices is such a good idea in the context
    of artistic and/or other expression.
  created: '2013-07-21 18:05:56'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Geoh77, thanks for reviving this thread (for whatever reason).\r\n\r\nBut
    I agree with Nick and Dez: the term <em>banning</em> suggests the listed ones
    are \"bad fonts\". The proposal, giving students a brief to use a particular font,
    gives them incentive to peruse other means of design instead of just selecting
    the boldest font they can find."
  created: '2013-07-21 20:17:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-07-22 02:16:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Banning, restricting, removing choices is such a good idea in
    the context of artistic and/or other expression.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat restarted
    this thread after the long hiatus...\r\n\r\nAnd it seems to me it applies to a
    world where <strong>branding -- </strong> is that it -- is perceived as the only
    serious use of type. Were I teaching a course on book typography, I'd perhaps
    make a similar banishing, which would be quite different list. Odd notion that
    popularity make something bad. Do you folk, as sellers of fonts, want your work
    to be the exception to this notion that popular is an evil? Perhaps that's a slippery
    slope?"
  created: '2013-07-22 02:43:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Odd notion that popularity make something bad.\r\n\r\nWe could also ban
    popular, overused colors, like red, green and blue. And overused shapes, like
    squares, circles and triangles. "
  created: '2013-07-22 03:21:22'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: No one on this thread is saying that red is bad, nor that Times New Roman
    is evil, only that it is a useful exercise in her class for her students. The
    question she asked is which fonts are so widely used by beginners that they act
    as crutches and stifle creativity; she didn't say the fonts are bad, nor that
    they can't be used well. She's right to have her students do this exercise and
    right to ask for suggestions.
  created: '2013-07-27 19:47:23'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Toad42, I was just joking.\r\n\r\nAlthough I actually have heard people,
    in other forums, denounce the overuse of certain colors. For example, red and
    yellow are used in a large percentage of fast food signs, and driving down some
    streets it seems like almost every sign is using those colors. \r\n\r\nBut I've
    never heard anyone seriously say they should be \"banned\", with the possible
    exception of some communities that may have highly restrictive signage codes,
    such as historic areas. I drove through a community once where the McDonalds was
    a dignified brick building with a tiny brass sign, which I'm sure was due to local
    codes."
  created: '2013-07-27 20:21:07'
date: '2010-09-07 17:54:19'
title: A type 101 banned fonts list

---
