---
author:
  name: abattis
  picture: 112245
body: "Hi!\r\n\r\n\vI'm trying to gauge the importance of various collaboration scenarios...
  I hope you can spare a moment to consider the following scenario, and let me know
  your thoughts :-)\v\v\r\n\r\nYou publish a typeface family, \"Alice,\" with 12 weights
  of roman and italic, covering full Latin, Cyrillic and Greek, under a 'libre' license.
  You publish all source files - FontLab VFBs including interpolation master outlines,
  OpenType feature files, and hinting files.\v\v\r\n\r\nA well known competitor downloads
  the font's source files and changes the font into a new type design, \"Bob,\" that
  looks much different. This is high quality work, and includes some fancy OpenType
  features, but the fonts only cover basic Latin characters. The company publishes
  \"Bob\" 8 OTF files, for roman and italic styles in 4 weights. They do not publish
  any source files, no interpolation masters, no OpenType source code.\v\v\r\n\r\nYou
  meet a client who likes Bob, and would like to hire you to extend \"Bob\" into full
  Latin, Cyrillic and Greek.\v\v\r\n\r\nI wonder how useful it is to have access to
  the same kind of source files for \"Bob\" that you published for \"Alice.\"\v\v\r\n\r\nCheers\r\n\vDave"
comments:
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: "Ummm... probably pretty useful.\r\nbut not necessary.\r\n\r\nthat well known
    competitor ignored a lot of unwritten \"type ethics\" by modifying and selling
    your outlines, even if he was technically free to do so.\r\n\r\nTo avoid this
    problem, I'd restrain from publishing the source files along with the font, but
    make them available upon request. I'd guess that the average person who downloads
    a free typeface doesn't have much interest in or use for the source files. Publishing
    the source files is gonna mean different things to different people.\r\n\r\nfor
    the average person it might mean\r\n\"I'm a well developed typeface, download
    and use me!\"\r\n\r\nfor the type / graphic design hobbyist it might mean\r\n\"Hey!
    Play around with me and make something new!\"\r\n\r\nfor the (shady) type / graphic
    design professional it might mean\r\n\"Hey! Play around with me and make something
    new and sell it!\"\r\n\r\nand for the type design benefactor it might mean\r\n\"I'm
    a well developed typeface, develop me more!\"\r\n\r\nSo I guess what I'm trying
    to get at here is, yes, it would help to have those source files for \"Bob\".
    But if you release \"Alice\" under the pretense of \"Do whatever the hell you
    want!\" then you indirectly brought the whole \"Bob\" situation upon yourself.
    But realistically, if they modified \"Alice\" enough, then the question is irrelevant
    to the previous states of \"Bob\" and you're really asking \"How useful would
    it be the have the source files when asked to expand ANY typeface family.\" To
    which the answer will most likely always be \"Probably pretty useful.\""
  created: '2010-09-18 13:12:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Perhaps a tiny real-world example? \r\n\r\nI modified Charis SIL and used
    the resulting font to set several books for university presses. Modifications
    were: old-style numbers, character spacing (sidebearing/kerning modifications),
    condense the italic a trifle, and replace the mark and mkmk feature with a ccmp
    feature (I use FontLab only).\r\n\r\n\"Our\" Charis is not for sale. I believe
    the SIL license forbids this, but in any case, I wouldn't do it. I have given
    it to one press to use in a series they are publishing.\r\n\r\nWell, it wasn't
    Bob -- Charis was pretty good to start with; itself a modification of Mathew Carter's
    Charter. Another SIL font, Gentium (revised), is now in beta testing. They make
    the source material available. It is of no use to me; I'd write my own features
    anyway. And Gentium (not Gentium Book) is a touch too light for bookwork with
    high dpi, ctp offset printing.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't directly answer your question.
    As I understand it, your model was that a *reasonable* font was turned into something
    of beauty by modification, but not all characters were offered. What would it
    take to get the missing characters? And of course, it would take the same skill
    that turned the font into a thing of beauty. How would the source files, beyond
    what FontLab will extract from the OTF, help with that?"
  created: '2010-09-18 13:53:08'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: 'It depends on how the font were done, if the glyphs were mostly drawn by
    hand, OpenType stuff done manually etc., then the working sources are of limited
    use. But if the weights were interpolated from masters, OpenType was (semi-)automated
    with scripts, then the sources are pretty important, but in either cases it is
    not necessary, you can still extend the font but not as efficient as if you have
    the sources. '
  created: '2010-09-18 14:13:00'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "Andrevv, \r\n\r\n<i>that well known competitor ignored a lot of unwritten
    \"type ethics\" by modifying and selling your outlines, even if he was technically
    free to do so.</i>\r\n\r\nThe whole point of publishing a libre font is to encourage
    people to modify and sell font outlines :-)\r\n\r\n<i>if you release \"Alice\"
    under the pretense of \"Do whatever the hell you want!\" then you indirectly brought
    the whole \"Bob\" situation upon yourself.</i>\r\n\r\nNo libre license says \"Do
    whatever the hell you want!\" - libre fonts come with a license that is as firm
    as the EULAs normally used for fonts, and it allows certain things, requires certain
    things and prohibits certain things. \r\n\r\nReally the main libre license is
    the <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/OFL_web\">SIL OFL v1.1</a> - and this is
    the license preferred by all the big libre font projects.\r\n\r\n- - - - - \r\n\r\nCharles,
    thanks a really great example! Thanks for telling the story :-)\r\n\r\n<i>\"Our\"
    Charis is not for sale. I believe the SIL license forbids this, but in any case,
    I wouldn't do it. I have given it to one press to use in a series they are publishing.</i>\r\n\r\nMaking
    something 'for sale' involves 2 separate things: offering to distribute the work
    to the public, and charging money for distributing it. \r\n\r\nThe SIL OFL allows
    charging money for distributing OFL fonts when a program is included alongside
    the font; anyone can include a \"hello world\" program to sell the fonts. Indeed,
    anyone selling computers (like One Laptop Per Child, or Dell) with Ubuntu or any
    other libre operating system installed is selling the fonts. \r\n\r\nNo libre
    license requires publication though - the private right to modification, which
    you are exercising - is one of the major motivations for libre licensing! :-)\r\n\r\n<i>As
    I understand it, your model was that a *reasonable* font was turned into something
    of beauty by modification, but not all characters were offered.</i>\r\n\r\nThere
    is a difference between \r\n\r\nNot quite, the idea is that the first font is
    just as beautiful as the second, but is a particular style, and covers a lot of
    weights and characters. The second font is a different style, and covers less
    weights and characters, but retains many of the characteristics of the first one.
    So someone would like to fill out the second one to match the number of weights
    and character coverage of the first - but don't have the VFBs. \r\n\r\n<i>How
    would the source files, beyond what FontLab will extract from the OTF, help with
    that?</i>\r\n\r\nThe interpolation masters can be quite different from the distributed
    installable files; they have PostScript curves, and the distributed files are
    TTFs with Quadratic outlines - so no on can take the regular and bold and interpolate
    between them, without converting outlines back to PostScript and going through
    and cleaning them all up to prepare them for interpolation again.... \r\n\r\nThis
    seems really annoying and a total waste of time to me, but, its not totally impossible,
    anyone competent could do it in a day or so - right?\r\n\r\nSo.... what I'm really
    wondering, Is if there is anything in a set of made-for-installation OTF or TTF
    files that would take weeks to recreate for convenient modification?\r\n\r\n-
    - - \r\n\r\n<i>you can still extend the font but not as efficient as if you have
    the sources.</i>\r\n\r\nKhaled, yes... I'm wondering, what is the upper bound
    on how bad the inefficiency can get? :-)\r\n\r\n<strong>Would it be good to <i>require</i>
    libre font distributors to provide source on request?</strong>\r\n\r\n- - - \r\n\r\nTo
    be clear, my posts here are my personal opinion only, and do not represent the
    views of any of my consulting clients."
  created: '2010-09-18 14:21:26'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Hi, my own type foundry VTF (www.vtf.fadebiaye.com) has a specific policy
    (http://www.fadebiaye.com/type/vtf_policy.html) about that specific matter.\r\n\r\nWe
    do not develop font, we provide fonts under CC BY SA licence or under GNU/GPL.
    We do provide sources and we allow people to modify and resell it, but they have
    to do it under the same licence, unless they ask me directy ; in that case, as
    the author of the font, i can make the font private. \r\n\r\nOf course, people
    might not respect that deal ; but in any case, they would have stolen an undeveloped
    typeface. But who cares?\r\n\r\nI must add that i do experimental directly on
    computer ; with a specific  grid-aided blueprinting in first place ; so of course,
    source files give great aid.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-18 15:32:55'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@Dave:\r\n<cite>Khaled, yes... I'm wondering, what is the upper bound on
    how bad the inefficiency can get? :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nIt can be very limiting, for
    example, in the font I'm about to release, I strip glyph names (not required for
    TTF fonts) and lookup names don't get exported either, so if someone is to alter
    some of the lookups in the font without my working sources it'll be a very laborious
    effort. Further more, I internally use kerning classes that are \"exported\" at
    build time to kerning pairs, editing thousands of kerning pairs is no fun. Even
    worse, for fonts built from Matafont like sources (many of GUST fonts), good luck
    editing 40 font files or so per family that were actually generated from a single
    Metafont master.\r\n\r\nSo in general, I'm more with providing sources and build
    scripts (if any), it won't harm."
  created: '2010-09-18 15:49:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Dave, I think you hit upon an interesting phenomenon. Many publishers of
    Open Source fonts intentionally (or unintentionally) fail to be "open" with actual
    "source". Perhaps in the case of VFB files these can be reverse engineered from
    the binary? But in the case of VTT hinting private tables, and to a lesser degree
    VOLT OpenType tables it''s harder said than done. '
  created: '2010-09-18 17:09:34'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "Sii, Adam Twardoch has talked publicly at conferences this year (I forget
    which one) about making FontLab files interoperable for libre font tools. I speculate
    that could be publishing the VFB format specification, or perhaps making a documented
    variant of UFO (\"XFO\"?) the default file format for FontLab Studio 6 and providing
    way to upgrade VFBs to XFOs in FL6.\r\n\r\nKhaled, I think when more tools like
    \"Proteus\" are available, the need for sources will become even more aparent.
    The next generation of font tools all seem to take on the parametric ideas of
    METAFONT, and the type design tool R&D that FontLab demo'd at ATypI this year
    was VERY impressive, being interactive and DESIRABLE. Your points about the current
    tool's ability to make the installable fonts very different and annoying if interesting.
    I wonder if a tool could be made to deduce and reconvert 'flat' kerning pairs
    into a hierarchical kerning class system... and the same for OpenType lookups,
    that seems much much harder though. \r\n\r\nFrank, the GNU GPL does require sources
    to be made available to users on request, which is why its my favourite font license.
    However, CC-BY-SA does not, and I think its better to use the SIL OFL v1.1 instead
    of CC-BY-SA for fonts. Fonts are not 'content', they are much more like programs
    (and contain programs.)\r\n\r\nThanks guys!\r\n\r\n- - -\r\n\r\nTo be clear, my
    posts here are my personal opinion only, and do not represent the views of any
    of my consulting clients."
  created: '2010-09-19 03:01:41'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "The lack of a requirement to release all modified source materials for derivative
    works is in my opinion a major drawback of the Open Font License (OFL).  The OFL
    lacks a major part of the open source culture, which is that someone should not
    need to reverse engineer or start from scratch when modifying an existing project
    (program, font, etc).  For future releases of my original fonts, I am looking
    for an alternative to the OFL.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-19 07:57:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I don\u2019t blame font designers for not releasing source files. If you
    release the VFB files open-source zealots complain that you\u2019re not using
    FontForge and insist that the project be switched to UFO, and once it is, they
    contribute nothing. If you release the UFO files you get emails from people who
    can\u2019t RTFM about UFO. I still get clueless emails about OpenBaskerville even
    though it\u2019s not even an active project. "
  created: '2010-09-19 16:52:38'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>I don\u2019t blame font designers for not releasing source files. If
    you release the VFB files open-source zealots complain that you\u2019re not using
    FontForge</cite>\r\n\r\nMay be I'm \"open-source\" zealot, but releasing plain
    TTF files is much more useful than VFB files, since the later is a proprietary,
    undocumented file format that only applications written by one company can read
    an edit.\r\n\r\nIf an open source project is not gaining outside contributions,
    then I take that as their failure to attract contributors, opening up your project
    won't magically make people willing to contribute to it. Take DeJaVu font project
    as an example of successful open-source font project."
  created: '2010-09-19 20:59:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Take DeJaVu font project as an example of successful open-source font project.\r\n\r\nSo
    as a type designer you have to develop a font for a browser maker and then remove
    the manual hinting, change the name and license it to a desktop shell producer,
    and have them open source it? That seems a bit much for most type designers wanting
    to get into the Open Source font game? ;-) \r\n"
  created: '2010-09-20 02:59:07'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "Dave (abattis) -\r\n\r\nThis all sounds very much like a discussion you and
    I and others have had many times before, so I'm surprised to hear you bringing
    it up yet again. But for the benefit of others here...\r\n\r\nIt is surprisingly
    difficult to define what files constitute complete 'source' for fonts. is it every
    file used in development, such as scanned source of drawings before optimisation?
    Is it every file necessary for 'building' the font, including every small Python
    script used to, say, work around a FontLab bug? Does it include app-specific prefs
    files, such as FontLab .nam and .enc files? Do they need to be in an open, non-proprietary
    format, so that anyone can use them? Does it do anyone any good if the files are
    there but without documentation on how to use them?\r\n\r\nFonts are not like
    other kinds of software that can easily be compiled from a 'source' in a documented,
    automatic system that needs only a one-button push. We and many other foundries
    are working hard to get closer to this, but only a few really succeed, and I suspect
    that almost none of those in-house build systems could easily be reproduced by
    others. The build system for our Roman fonts (Gentium, Charis, etc.) is horribly
    complex. We've worked very hard over the past three years to make it simpler,
    but there is a natural complexity in such massive projects. If we were required
    to bundle 'source' files with these fonts (according to one strict definition
    of  'source' - a complete reproducible build tree) there is no way we could have
    done it.\r\n\r\nFor most purposes, the resulting font itself can be considered
    sufficient 'source'. The outlines, data tables and even smart font behaviors are
    there and can be modified and improved. Hinting and complex smart font routines
    can be more opaque, so there's clearly usefulness in a richer set of source files.
    It can be difficult, however, to produce that richer set, and requiring us to
    do so would be prohibitive.\r\n\r\n<em>Most importantly, if you require foundries
    to produce 'source' upon request, you need to produce an objective definition
    of what that is.</em> IMHO, there is no such definition that would be workable.
    We tried very hard to come up with something like this when developing the OFL,
    but kept finding big problems with anything we tried. In the end, the font file
    itself became the basic minimum standard of 'source', and we any many others felt
    that was sufficient to call the OFL a free/libre license.\r\n\r\nWe do feel it's
    important that foundries share as much as they can with others. For example, although
    there's no way we can currently reproduce our build system on a user's computer,
    we do provide additional 'source' files that would be reasonably useful for people
    wishing to build derivatives, such as FontLab databases, OT-CFF files (PS curves
    in non-proprietary format), anchor definitions, Graphite code, etc. We even produce
    some of these (such as OT-CFF) even though they are not needed for our build systems.\r\n\r\nIn
    your specific case, the solution lies not in codifying a source definition in
    law, but in developing a relationship with the guys who produced \"Bob\". Ask
    if they can share their additional work with you in a useful way. If they don't
    respond well, see if a mutual friend (Ted?) can talk to them on your behalf. Offer
    to do some extra work to help make their work more broadly useful. Keep in mind
    that most derivatives are produced by someone in their spare time to meet a specific
    purpose. They may not have the technical ability or time to produce a richer set
    of development files.\r\n\r\nTo require complete 'source' is a dead end in many
    ways. It is impossible to define, might require expertise and resources many font
    designers don't have, and would only stifle the development of free/libre fonts.\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2010-09-20 09:41:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, Dave is referring to the Proteus system under development at Fontlab
    Ltd. with partnership with Yuri Gordon. It's a parametric type design system.
    The talk announcement can be seen at: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/03_Dublin/40_timetables/preface/view_presentation_html?presentid=739\r\n\r\nand
    I believe that we will publish a presentation at some point soon for people to
    look at (those who haven't been at ATypI). \r\n\r\nAlso, the talk has been recorded
    by ATypI, and I think the video recording will also be published, though I don't
    know the specific details. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-20 12:07:45'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>So as a type designer you have to develop a font for a browser maker
    and then remove the manual hinting, change the name and license it to a desktop
    shell producer, and have them open source it? That seems a bit much for most type
    designers wanting to get into the Open Source font game? ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nNon
    of this is related to DejaVu project, I'm referring to the project and its contributer
    friendliness, which has nothing to do with how the fonts were open sourced."
  created: '2010-09-20 15:01:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I'm referring to the project and its contributer friendliness, which has
    nothing to do with how the fonts were open sourced.\r\n\r\nI'd argue the opposite.
    The work that Jim Lyles and co. did directly contributed to the contributor friendliness
    of the project. \r\n\r\nSorry for going off-topic. "
  created: '2010-09-20 15:56:20'
date: '2010-09-18 12:20:26'
node_type: forum
title: How important are source files for improving typeface families?

---
