---
author:
  name: ken-
body: "Hi guys, I'm doing my thesis paper on the negative aspects of Helvetica. \r\n\r\nThings
  like the physical flaws of the typeface, the negativities that arises due to the
  overwhelming success of Helvetica, the possible issues or trends that might occur
  if the excessive use of Helvetica continues.\r\n\r\nI've read articles on the negative
  emotions towards the font, with people branding the font as conformist, corporate,
  a fail safe choice and many more. I was wondering if there are even more negative
  aspects of Helvetica? Like perhaps the physical flaws of the typeface? I know that
  it is good for header but not body text, its uniform strokes makes it look like
  an army, hard to read, etc.\r\n\r\nMy idea is to investigate into the different
  negative issues with Helvetica, its phenomenon and its impact and tell them to my
  tartget audience, which are students studying graphic design.\r\n\r\nMy issue is
  that designers often fall back to using Helvetica regardless the reasons leading
  to its overused.\r\n\r\nThere's always 2 sides to a coin and the same goes for Helvetica.
  There are much talks about the postive aspects of Helvetica, but not really very
  in depth analysis of the negative aspects.\r\n\r\nCan anyone enlighten me on this?
  Thanks!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The negatives of Helvetica ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/neg_3626.png]"
  created: '2010-09-18 09:57:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Several articles I wrote 8-10 years ago, touching on the issue of Helvetica,
    when it <em>was</em> an issue of interest to graphic designers.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/Uniformity.pdf\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/NeoModrn.pdf\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/SeeLight.pdf\r\n\r\nplus
    the Emigre issue, 2003:\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/EMag.php?issue=65\r\n\r\nThen
    there was the movie, which has surely killed any professional cachet the face
    might have.\r\nDon't you have something more current and relevant to study?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-18 19:48:26'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> My issue is that designers often fall back to using Helvetica \r\n\r\nOne
    reason is that many corporations specify it as their corporate font. "
  created: '2010-09-18 21:19:28'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Don't you have something more current and relevant to study?</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    Why are design teachers still letting students beat this dead horse?"
  created: '2010-09-18 21:47:11'
- author:
    name: ken-
  body: "Thanks guys for the response!\r\n\r\nErm yeah I know it's really a very old
    thing to talk about but it all sparked off when I was thinking about why didn't
    I ever use Helvetica in my design at all.\r\n\r\nI admit I haven't been very updated
    on the stuffs in the design world, I'm guilty of that as a student. To me typography
    is really very interesting so I decided to look into this matter to help me design
    something better.\r\n\r\nComing from an Asia country, the design culture in Singapore
    is a mixture of different influences... Helvetica is kinda new to me only these
    couple of years...\r\n\r\nMy bad guys for attempting on this subject but its a
    personal interest of mine :/\r\n\r\nThanks again guys =)"
  created: '2010-09-19 06:42:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Coming from an Asia country, the design culture in Singapore is a mixture
    of different influences... Helvetica is kinda new to me only these couple of years...</em>\r\n\r\nSingapore
    as backwater?\r\nSorry, that excuse won't wash.\r\nYour language is English, your
    alphabet Latin, your economy is booming, and you have the requisite Foster/Gehry/Libeskind
    architecture, so I would imagine your fashion and technology are as globally current
    as anywhere else.\r\nOr is there some government censorship of the corrupting
    influence of hot new H&FJ fonts? :-)\r\n\r\n<em>...why didn't I ever use Helvetica
    in my design at all...</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps simply a mark of good taste?!"
  created: '2010-09-19 18:01:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Helvetica has three different kinds of problems. One is the problem of overuse
    so that it looks stale. I'm sure that is the basis of a lot of the objections
    to it. \r\n\r\nThe second problem has to do with its unsuitability for extended
    text. Its horizontally, tightly closed counters, with wide round shapes lead,
    especially in bold weights give it in display a vibrancy and punch that I think
    accounts for its popularity. But these qualities, with the tight spacing make
    it horrible for text. The late Paul Rand said that it \"looks like dogshit in
    text.\" My own theory is that if you space it more widely the words fall apart
    visually, so that it still isn't good if you try tracking it out in text. I think
    that sans that are narrower, based on the oval, work better in text. \r\n\r\n(The
    screen version of Helvetica, and Arial, its sister, are so hinted as to be different
    faces, so this discussion doesn't really apply to the screen.)\r\n\r\nThe third
    problem had to do with its drawing. It was early on adapted to Linotype, then
    Phototype, and then redrawn as Neue Helvetica. This resulted in various problems
    and solutions regarding both its drawing and spacing. \r\n\r\nIn [[http://www.christianschwartz.com/haasgrotesk.shtml|this
    fascinating discussion]], with examples, Christian Schwartz explains how he tried
    to recapture, and in fact improve on the merits of the original. Note that he
    drew a different version for text. Unfortunately, in the link he doesn't give
    a comparison of the text and display. I guess we'd need a scan of Bloomberg Business
    Week, where it is now used, for a comparison. \r\n\r\nI am still dubious that
    even with redrawing it can be much good for extended text, but your question has
    made me curious enough to get a copy of the magazine. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2010-09-19 18:04:45'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "I think if anyone here had a popular and wide-used font like Helvetica, it
    wouldn't be a problem for him/she if people used it for any purpose.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see why so many people dislike Helvetica. It is like Metalica... you don't
    have to love them, listen to that kind of music... but they know the job and that's
    the end. Same goes for Helvetica - it can work well (even pretty fine) in 90%
    situations. So only reason I see about hating Helvetica is it became a trend in
    designer's circle.\r\n\r\nIf some designer uses Helvetic for his design, it doesn't
    mean automatically that he's bad designer or don't have a wider knowledge about
    fonts/typofaces.\r\n\r\nJust a opinion of mine ;)"
  created: '2010-09-19 18:20:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>typofaces</em>?\r\n\r\nIntentional typoface or Freudian slip? ;)"
  created: '2010-09-19 18:37:29'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: I'm non-English speaker, so everything is possible :)
  created: '2010-09-19 18:47:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don't see why so many people dislike Helvetica.</em>\r\n\r\nIn the
    context of this thread, there are better type issues to study now than the Helvetica
    trilemma Bill describes.\r\nSure, it is a \"good subject\", because you can go
    round and round in circles forever appreciating the different points of view.\r\nBut
    wouldn't it be better for students to get their teeth into something more current
    -- both a more recent type design and issue? \r\n\r\nTo use your analogy, Metallica
    were an innovative band 25 years ago.\r\nI still enjoy cranking up Master of Puppets
    occasionally, but if I were studying contemporary music now, I wouldn't spend
    too much time on it.\r\n\r\nAs for disliking Helvetica, I've outlined my position,
    as a non-corporate living designer of original typefaces, as to why its ubiquity
    pisses me off, many times -- which has nothing at all to do with its functional
    or aesthetic qualities.\r\n\r\nThis is not just a question of business self-interest
    -- ideologically (which Bill omits from his trilemma) there is a problem with
    mass standardization.\r\n\r\nThe ideological issue, as it applies to Helvetica,
    is still current, but I don't think it justifies a student (other than of art
    history/cultural criticism) delving too deeply into an old typeface. If you have
    precious time to spend getting to know a typeface, surely it makes more sense
    to acquaint yourself with what's going on now. That doesn't omit studying history
    and type revivals, merely tired history. Helvetica has been done to death, why
    not mine an untapped seam of history? \r\n\r\nWith regards to use of Helvetica,
    note that Akzidenz Grotesk has become more popular recently (the \"posh\" Helvetica,
    as termed by Phil Baines), with designers who are too cool for Helvetica, but
    don't mind riding its pleasability.\r\n\r\nAlso, several type designers have explored
    the idea of the \"Ur-grot\", going back to design original works in a neo-Victorian
    style.\r\nJames (Dunwich) and myself amongst them:\r\n\r\nArmitage\r\nFiggins
    Sans\r\nFounders Grotesk\r\n&c., &c.\r\n\r\nThis is all more interesting than
    examining the mechanics of Helvetica, I would say.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-19 19:54:34'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "About students... big % of them, during the studies are not aware of what's
    good or bad font/typeface (that's my experience from the students time, looking
    at myself and my colleagues then), so when you're not sure what's good, you just
    follow what's others are saying, using, making... and there you have Helvetica
    again and again and again...\r\n\r\nLet's make some other font so popular like
    Helvetica then :)"
  created: '2010-09-19 20:38:20'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "Helvetica became a synonym for font in all circles (professional and amateurs)
    and we can argue as much as we want, but that's just a fact.\r\n\r\nI have a great
    respect for Helvetica, as a historical piece of art that's very useful in big
    % of commercial or non-commercial situations. The fact that Helvetica became so
    wide used doesn't make it a bad font (or typEface :)), it just became overused
    and it became popular, even if you ask someone who doesn't have a clue about design
    or typography, he/she will say: \"Yeah, there's Times New Roman, Arial, Helvetica..\".
    \r\n\r\nI think also that one important thing about Helvetica isn't understood
    well (maybe)... it's the moment when it was made and what it meant in those years,
    it was a revolutionary move and that moment was enlightening for many designers
    then (some of them are also alive now) and how they passed on students, colleagues,
    companies they worked... their impression about Helvetica, so it \"survived\"
    in the head of many designers now-days.\r\n\r\nMy point is that such a font as
    Helvetica can't become bad itself (when it's obviously not, maybe here and there
    needs some modern touch for some details (IMHO)). When I was a student, I couldn't
    stand Helvetica, I though it's an overrated bastard who sits in every chair. Now
    I think about Helvetica as one of the typographic mover of it's time and don't
    have a problem with it or cause it's being so used.\r\n\r\nAbout Metalica... well,
    it's a tricky cause if you look, for example, at Picasso now and try to analyze
    his paintings for example, you can't tell that they are modern for the time we're
    living in, just like Metalica in some time lines, but you can't go over without
    not learning about them. \r\nSame as for Helvetica.\r\n\r\n- - - -\r\n\r\nI mean...
    you can't \"remove\" Helvetica or disable it somehow... you just need to find
    font that's fitting into your taste :) But you can ignore and don't have a opinion
    about Helvetica, like with any of 1.000.000 fonts today :)"
  created: '2010-09-19 20:39:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ken-: Where are you studying and who is your supervisor? Is this an undergraduate,
    graduate or PhD thesis?'
  created: '2010-09-19 21:20:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, thanks, you are completely right about the numbing "standardization"
    problem. Add that as number #4--or maybe #1.  That''s the kind of thing that led
    Paula Sher in the movie to say (with a smile) that for her it is the face of the
    "establishment" and responsible for both the Viet Nam and Iraq wars!  '
  created: '2010-09-19 21:57:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: 'I like helvetica more than most folks here (although I don''t like it for
    extended text), but I try to avoid it because pieces done in helvetica tend to
    look dated, like wearing clothes or a hairstyle from the 1980s.  '
  created: '2010-09-19 22:29:35'
- author:
    name: andrevv
    picture: 119264
  body: Doesn't anyone feel completely neutral about helvetica? <_<
  created: '2010-09-20 01:31:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Those who don't know history are destined to repeat it</em>.\u201D\r\n~
    Edmund Burke (1729\u20131797)"
  created: '2010-09-20 01:49:04'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Maybe someone can answer a helvetica-related question...\r\n\r\nYears ago
    in a design magazine I saw a poster in which the word \"helvetica\" was set very
    large but in a serif typeface (maybe Garamond?), and the tag line was something
    like \"Everything looks better in Garamond -- even 'Helvetica'\".  \r\n\r\n It
    was a great poster; made you do a double-take. \r\n\r\nI've tried to locate that
    poster since then, but haven't had any luck. Does it ring a bell with anyone?"
  created: '2010-09-20 06:54:56'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "@JamesM: It was an ad for the Garamond which isn\u2019t a Garamond. There
    was a post about it on SpeakUp, but now I\u2019m unable to load the site."
  created: '2010-09-20 09:22:34'
- author:
    name: ken-
  body: "@Nick: I've read the article, uniformity while I was researching about the
    topic Helvetica. Admittedly Helvetica is really a very dead and done with subject
    to do on, many discussions, debates have been spawned from it, yet Helvetica remains
    one of the few favorite font a designer must have. \r\n\r\nI'm know that Helvetica
    in the US is particularly overwhelming, but in Singapore, Helvetica is not as
    widespread but its still there, invisible to the ignorant. I'm looking into this
    in the local context of my school whereby students tends to fall back to using
    Helvetica regardless the reasons. I'm not saying that they shouldn't use Helvetica,
    but rather they should understand the reason why they choose it.\r\n\r\nI was
    hoping that by finding out the negativities that surround Helvetica today, I could
    use it to convince students and make them see Helvetica in a different light.
    Eventually make them realise that Helvetica is not working as well as they thought...
    Possibly getting them to move out of their comfort zone and explore other typefaces.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not that great a designer and I'm not that up to date to the latest design trends
    or issues that's going on. Talking about Helvetica is definitely over and done
    with... It is kinda hard to find substantial information regarding the \"dislike\",
    \"negative\" sides of Helvetica, many are opinions and while some have concrete
    evidence, many don't. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm hoping to achieve here is to find out as
    many negative aspects involving Helvetica and proceed on to conduct investigations
    to back up these claims. And through these results, create a set of outcomes to
    convince my target audiences.\r\n\r\n\r\n@Christopher Dean: I'm studying at Lasalle
    College of the Arts, doing my final degree year. I do know that Helvetica is a
    very dead and done with subject to do on, but the information regarding the negative
    aspects of Helvetica are very few and little.\r\n\r\n\r\nI broken the negative
    aspects into 3 parts:\r\n 1) Physical traits of Helvetica (which William mentioned
    above, thanks William =))\r\n\r\n 2) The phenomenon part of Helvetica, like why
    did it became known as corporate, conformist, fail safe etc. Is there more?\r\n\r\n
    3) The possible impact, what would happen if Helvetica took over the world...
    (I know won't happen but one thing is that Helvetica has popularise the use of
    sans serif typeface I believe. Forgive me if I got this part wrong...\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    alot guys, really I gained a lot of new insights and ideas =) "
  created: '2010-09-20 10:06:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Years ago in a design magazine I saw a poster in which the word
    \"helvetica\" was set very large but in a serif typeface (maybe Garamond?), and
    the tag line was something like \"Everything looks better in Garamond -- even
    'Helvetica'\".</cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re referring to a famous/notorious poster
    from ca. 1979 by Jack Summerford, in which the single word \u201CHelvetica\u201D
    was set large, red, in ITC Garamond. There was no tag line.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-20 13:38:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Here's the post (it was on Design Observer):\r\nhttp://observatory.designobserver.com/entry.html?entry=2577"
  created: '2010-09-20 14:02:20'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: That looks like it.  Maybe the tag line I was remembering was just a photo
    caption an editor had added later. Thanks.
  created: '2010-09-20 14:36:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Without getting into the topic of Helvetica itself - Nick and I have duked
    this out on plenty of occasions before - I would like to suggest that the connotations
    of any typeface differ from person to person and that though Paula Scher and many
    others regard Helvetica as the face of authority a different individual or indeed
    a different generation might view it entirely differently.
  created: '2010-09-20 15:26:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This thread has got me thinking now that this actually is a good topic for
    a student thesis. Helvetica has such a huge presence and is so controversial that
    it has plenty of food for thought. \r\n\r\nNot to create another firestorm, but
    I think that Times New Roman is a quite different story. It is a great typeface,
    overused and incorrectly used, but to me not stale. I think the fact that Helvetica
    is basically as a display face means that even well used it gets stale and goes
    in and out of style. I think text faces are more like comfortable walking shoes,
    rather than show-off fashion shoes. As such, I don't think they get stale in the
    same way and to the same extent as display faces.  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-09-20 16:57:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...the fact that Helvetica is basically as a display face...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not how it's used, despite the taste of typophiles.\r\nIt's the \"default\" face
    for a lot of crucial text, such as the diet info on food packaging, and the instructions
    on how to take prescription drugs, and their effect.\r\nIt wouldn't be used for
    these functions if it didn't work as a text face."
  created: '2010-09-20 17:14:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, of course Helvetica works as a text face, as does anything you can
    decipher, it just doesn''t work *well*. Of course that''s an opinion, but it is
    shared by some very good designers, such as Paul Rand. '
  created: '2010-09-20 19:57:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rand-card_6652.jpg]'
  created: '2010-09-20 20:34:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Helvetica has such a huge presence and is so controversial that it
    has plenty of food for thought.</cite>\r\n\r\nI respectfully disagree. No matter
    how big the presence Helvetica is, at the end of the day, any exploration will
    still come down to listing people\u2019s subjective like or dislike of Helvetica.
    Sure a student could dig up some new subjective arguments for or against Helvetica,
    but I fail to see how that has much value as a thesis when the same experience
    can be learned by watching the edited 1-hour version of Gary Histwhit\u2019s film
    about Helvetica as part of a less redundant thesis related to typography."
  created: '2010-09-20 20:52:09'
- author:
    name: evey k.
  body: "i second Dunwich.\r\n\r\nthe point is that, it's so easy to collect opinions
    (which are so arbitrary) on the negativities of Helvetica. i mean, if you're gonna
    graduate and you're telling people that you did a thesis on negativities of helvetica
    (huh?), which sounded like you did a thesis on the 'why you hated Singapore?',
    or i don't know, anything. i personally feel, it's an easy way out to shoot someone
    to the ground, than to create your own ground.\r\nKen, your subject on negativity
    isn't gonna prove anything worthwhile. Aside from proving something, you need
    to give in something new. and not just mere 'observations', copy and paste opinions
    from others. \r\n\r\nand questioning the fate of helvetica's success, is like
    question why the 'maritim' is a current fashion trend. there's just simply no
    answers for this. it could be a question of good distribution, word of mouth.
    but so what? that's not gonna get you to fill up your 60 pages of your thesis!
    it also sounds like you're more concerned about how helvetica spread, which boils
    down to 'epidemics', social behavioral influences (read Tipping Point by Malcolm
    Gladwell). ok i'm going too far. haha.\r\n\r\ni'm not very sure if you should
    go so deep into that, unless you're focusing on 'social phenomenon' of Helvetica.
    i feel the challenge would be, to focus on the technical type design part.\r\n\r\nin
    the case of digging up helvetica related issue, i would any time challenge Bruno
    Maag's Aktiv Grotesk's efficiency which is said to be an in between of Akzidenz
    Grotesk & Helvetica. which perhaps for all the folks here, something 'up-to-date'.\r\n\r\nand
    that would be that, you need to do alot of homework .. read, read, read.\r\nthere's
    no shortcut around it.\r\ngood luck.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-20 21:50:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Clever, Nick, but that's not extended text, in paragraphs, which is what
    I mean by text. \r\n\r\nIt's Helvetica bold with few words and a lot of white
    space around it, as Erik Spiekermann rightly says in the movie is where Helvetica
    really works. Even though it's small, on Rand's card it's used in a display fashion.
    \r\n\r\nHere's Helvetica regular used in running text, even in a few lines, looking
    like shit:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvetica_Zahn_Kafka_4748.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-20 21:53:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Incidentally, Paul Rand's card didn't have a black border, it was just photographed
    on a black background.
  created: '2010-09-20 22:39:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nice way to compromise any font, Bill: set it in a solid block with a large
    character count per line :-)\r\n\r\n<em>...extended text, in paragraphs, which
    is what I mean by text.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not use the proper typographic terms?\r\nWhen
    speaking of size, \"text\" means small, and \"display\" large -- so your statement
    \"Even though it's small, on Rand's card it's used in a display fashion,\" doesn't
    make sense. \r\nIf what you really mean is that it's not running text, then say
    so.\r\n\r\nAt the moment, you appear to be saying that this non-running small
    type is display-fashion because it was designed by Paul Rand. However, the non-running
    text of ALL stationery, not just that designed by the great man, is generally
    set with care and attention (due to the repeated scrutiny it will be subjected
    to), which is a quality that may be applied to type at all sizes, not just display.\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I know, only extended, running text in learned journals and the canon of literature,
    e.g. Kafka, is worthy to be considered \"text\".\r\nThis is the traditional bookist,
    anti-jobbing snobbery.\r\nBut there are many, many other genres of *body copy*
    that are quite legitimate forms of commercial text typography, where Helvetica
    works well, even if one may prefer to see something different.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nutrition_4741.png]"
  created: '2010-09-20 23:23:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I don't think it's anti-advertising to call \"text fonts\" stuff that
    was traditionally used for extended text in books and magazines. I grant you that
    another sense of \"text\" is just small text used in short bursts, so to speak,
    and that is a common use of sans. Even in this use I don't think Helvetica fares
    that well in relation to other sans. For example, the \"Percent Daily Values\"
    info in your sample is hard to read, and another sans would probably fare better.
    \r\n\r\n>Nice way to compromise any font, Bill: set it in a solid block with a
    large character count per line :-)\r\n\r\nNo, that wouldn't compromise a good
    font intended for extended text. And it's not a particularly wide measure; at
    about 64 characters it is still under the maximum ideal single column width. Here
    it is the same block with a font designed for extended text, set in a solid block,
    at about the same size with the same default 20% leading:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kafka_sample_WC_3760.gif]\r\n.\r\nTo
    me it is way more comfortable a read."
  created: '2010-09-21 01:47:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And here it is with a more sympathetic interpretation, matching fit:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hel_5187.png]\r\n\r\nNow
    let's see you set the Nutrition Facts in Caslon!"
  created: '2010-09-21 02:17:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I grant you that another sense of \"text\" is just small text used in
    short bursts...</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, that is your own interpretation, not one of
    the meanings generally understood by typographers:\r\n\r\n- the encoded text (characters,
    not glyphs)\r\n\r\n- the counterpart to display, display being defined as a size
    larger than body type\r\n\r\n- the cut of type intended for use from around 8
    to 14 pt size, as designated in typefaces with optical sizes, generally Display,
    Text and Micro (you yourself recently posted a display cut of your Caslon, indicating
    that you accept the principle that the term \"text\" relates to size -- unless
    you intend to name the display version Williams Caslon Text Display :-).\r\n\r\nAll
    these meanings are far more specific and precise, typographically, than the idea
    that \"text\" type is meant for books.\r\nIndeed, one speaks of \"book faces\"
    for books, rather than text faces, although that is equally sketchy."
  created: '2010-09-21 02:43:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I acknowledge that my terminology has been imprecise, but I don't think
    that the term \"text type\" is that precise, and only used to refer to size. For
    example Mitchell & Wightman's Book Typography defines \"text font\" as \"font
    designed for setting continuous text.\" \r\n\r\nOf course fonts designed for setting
    continuous text are usually also intended to be used small, so the notion, indeed
    based on book typography, overlaps. Display type is usually used large, and for
    short text. \r\n\r\nIn Paul Rand's card, he was using Helvetica bold in short
    text, with a lot of white space, small, so that breaks my dichotomy. But I don't
    think it too much of a stretch to think that Rand was referring to continuous
    text when he warned his colleague not to set \"text\" in Helvetica. \r\n\r\nYou
    have a good point that my terminology was imprecise, but I don't think it's generally
    as precise as you say, given the evidence of Mitchell & Wightman.  \r\n\r\nIn
    any case, my point is that Helvetica is poor for continuous text. Your setting
    (is that Neue Helvetica light, tracked out?), while vastly improved is still far
    short of any real book face, including mine. But more relevant, I think you could
    use Meta or Frutiger or Myriad and have it more readable than Helvetica, for uses
    like your label. Helvetica performs all right at the top, but with the lowest
    part, where the text is more crowded, it falls down. \r\n\r\nI don't have time
    to do more settings now, though this is pretty fun.     \r\n "
  created: '2010-09-21 04:33:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's Neue Helvetica Regular.\r\nTracked out, which seemed the right thing
    to do for a screen grab.\r\n\r\n<em>... while vastly improved is still far short
    of any real book face...</em>\r\n\r\nAren't you circumscribing the layout?\r\nCertainly,
    most typographers wouldn't set a novel in a neo-grotesque font, but why can't
    such fonts be used for other kinds of books with continuous text? And what of
    brochures, manuals, catalogs, &c? Don't these often contain continuous text?\r\nIn
    those one would be inclined to use a more modernist layout -- in narrower columns,
    rag right.\r\nThat's how Rand did it in <em>A Designer's Art</em>, with Univers.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rand_4907.png]\r\nSo
    when he advised against Helvetica, he was not advising against using what you
    consider to be non-text faces.\r\nThe novel is not the only \"real\" book.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 06:14:37'
- author:
    name: ken-
  body: "What I'm trying to do here is to prove these \"negativities\", The negativities
    mentioned in the film Helvetica are opinions of what the designers feel towards
    the font. It is very much personal perspective. \r\n\r\nI am hoping that by gathering
    more of these \"opinions\" and analyses them to see if there's a common trend
    to it. Like I'm pretty sure everyone agrees it's a corporate typeface, which can
    be seen from the numbers of large companies adopting it. I mean like seriously,
    as a student I couldn't be bother whether which typeface I chose, I could jolly
    well use Helvetica in any design work and pull it off. I don't believe in Helvetica
    being a font for all. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm targeting at is actually the way students
    design, We tend to conform when we are designing. For instance, I'm guilty of
    using only one typeface for all of my design works. Not Helvetica... It is also
    another sans serif. I've been exposed to the word Helvetica quite often during
    my course of study and that it became known to me as a \"designer\" typeface.
    You will not go wrong using Helvetica, everyone uses it. You can justify the reasons
    on why you use it. But it is not necessary the most appropriate font to use...\r\n\r\nI
    could easily do a thesis on how designers design but Helvetica presents to me
    as a manifestation of these behaviors and more. Students can't be bother with
    their choice of typeface they use, as long as it works its fine. That's one reasons
    I see to why Helvetica is so widespread. My point here is to bring awareness of
    this problem through understanding the negativities that arises from Helvetica.
    For example, I read somewhere that, design in Helvetica no longer stands out,
    as everyone is using Helvetica, it will not win an award. Too much of something
    is not good. People don't realise it and they carry on doing so.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again guys for the suggestions for my topic. This is for my thesis paper, but
    for my studio project I'm taking it in 2 parts.\r\n 1) Finding out the negativities
    and presents to the target audience in a bid to convince or reveal what's going
    on with the Helvetica trend.\r\n\r\n2) The general idea is \"how can I get students
    to explore other typefaces apart from Helvetica\". I'm still working on it.\r\n\r\n\"Helvetica
    works as a text face, as does anything you can decipher, it just doesn't work
    *well*.\"\r\n\r\nHelvetica is perceived as neutral by alot of people hence it
    suitability for a wide range of application. It could work for anything, but is
    it the appropriate font that best communicates the intended message?\r\n\r\nNick,
    imo the reason Helvetica is chosen here is perhaps it was intended for the masses
    to read, which of course is true. Since many corporate use Helvetica to appeal
    to the masses though their branding. But in terms of readability, it might not
    be the best font to use. It kinda feels like it looks all the same, except for
    the bold and varying text size. I do apologise for making any noob comments here...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 06:41:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although Univers is often regarded as more suitable for text setting than
    Helvetica, I'll have to admit that, at least in display sizes, I think that Helvetica
    is beautiful - and Univers, by comparison, is almost ugly. But then I'm not fond
    of Gill Sans either, which to me looks too obviously \"British\" and blocky and
    chunky.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I like the traditional News Gothic and Franklin
    Gothic as well."
  created: '2010-09-21 14:47:58'
- author:
    name: A Pen Name and That A
  body: 'I am very new to the world of typography.  I instantly disliked Helvetica.  Number
    one: I was told architects liked it and insisted on using it and not Arial.  Number
    two: its small openings make it look too up-tight.  People who insist on using
    such an ugly font are just pretentious wankers.  I really would prefer they used
    Comic Sans or Papyrus.  '
  created: '2010-09-21 15:27:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I agree that Rand was saying that Helvetica is particularly poor for
    text, and other sans can be used more effectively. \r\n\r\nI do think sans, well
    set, can be used successfully for multiple line text in print, but just not for
    a whole lot of text. The more text you have, the more you run up against the limitations
    of sans. \r\n\r\nOne problem with sans is that the reader tends to more easily
    \"lose the line\" by his or her eye jumping to the wrong line. The designer can
    counteract this weakness with short lines and a lot of leading, which is what
    Rand does in the example you show. (Many books on typography also mention the
    need for this.) But I think that example is too black for extended reading, and
    it is also not very economical for a long text. Also the advantage of good serif
    text faces is not just novels but any long text, including non-fiction and magazines
    and newspapers. At least that is the verdict of the public, and I agree with it.\r\n\r\nWong
    Shiqin, (ken-) I am wondering from your latest post whether you are missing an
    important point that Nick and I agree on: the important question is not just which
    typeface is used but *how* it is used that is critical, both for readability and
    aesthetics. \r\n\r\nI don't object at all to Rand's use of Helvetica on his business
    card, where it looks great. I think Erik Spiekermann's point in the movie is that
    Helvetica is very limited as to where it can be both readable and look good. Some
    people assert that it is \"neutral\" and can be used everywhere successfully.
    But in fact it is a \"prima donna\", and requires very specific conditions to
    look really good and be easy to read. Otherwise you are better of going with something
    else, aside from the issue of cultural baggage. \r\n\r\nSo my fundamental objection
    to Helvetica is not that it is inherently ugly, but that it has limited successful
    use, and is constantly used where it doesn't work that well and other faces, including
    other sans, would work better. Of course there is also the cultural baggage of
    overuse and stale uniformity, though that's not inherent in the design. \r\n\r\nThe
    most horrible thing, which is pretty common, is that people fill a whole page
    of a report on letter sized or A4 paper with Helvetica or Arial, set solid at
    small size, and with no tracking. That's really painful to read. "
  created: '2010-09-21 16:03:44'
- author:
    name: type.nasos
    picture: 112690
  body: "Hi Ken, \r\nIm currently living in singapore, can catch up for a coffee if
    you want.\r\n\r\nCheers, \r\n\u2014Nasos"
  created: '2010-09-22 13:17:37'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "My guess as to the main reason why there is negativity that surrounds Helvetica
    is due to what is called  [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aY7XH2ulTEU|The Helvetica
    Scenario.]]\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 17:47:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bad news indeed for <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/scenario/\">Scenario</a>
    (a.k.a. Americana), not to mention <a href=\"http://www.1001freefonts.com/Syndrome.php\">Syndrome</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 18:18:31'
- author:
    name: venticaratteruzzi
    picture: 114353
  body: "You must consider to do a little trip to Rochester NY in order to study Helvetica
    issues in the brand new Vignelli Center for Design Studies, looking at every single
    draft made by one \"Helvetica master\".\r\nBy the way, Helvetica was a typeface
    designed to solve alignement problems, not to start a popular culture chapter
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-09-25 20:06:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@William: \"One problem with sans is that the reader tends to more easily
    \"lose the line\" by his or her eye jumping to the wrong line.\"\r\n\r\nDo you
    know a study that explores this hypothesis? I know of many that compare serif
    and sans, but have been unable to find anything about serif's and return saccades
    (except Rayner et. al, 2003, who associates return saccades with forward and regression
    saccades as opposed to returning to the next line)."
  created: '2010-09-25 21:13:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, no I don't know of any tests on losing the line\u2014either
    when returning to the beginning of a line or while moving along the line. \r\n\r\nBut
    the need for shorter lines and more leading is pretty common advice for setting
    sans, so a lot of people are reacting to the same thing, whatever it is. "
  created: '2010-09-25 22:51:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Following up on links related to the Youtube link above, I found out why the
    question "What is the atomic weight of Intelligent Calcium?" is a very important
    question. (The answer isn't found in the link itself, but in other related videos.)
  created: '2010-09-26 20:13:27'
- author:
    name: Lorem Ipsum
    picture: 114697
  body: I know this is an old thread and I haven't read all the replies, but it may
    be interesting to look at the negative reaction to Gap's new logo which is typeset
    in Helvetica (or something a lot like it).
  created: '2010-10-14 12:18:26'
date: '2010-09-18 09:29:40'
node_type: forum
title: Negativity that surrounds Helvetica today

---
