---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "Advanced OpenType Software Tool, like MS VOLT, can create an automatic replacement
  of a string of glyphs, and insert a needed glyph, such as a shva-na and a meteg.\r\n\r\nAs
  a results, intelligent students can better study the grammatical use and proper
  placement of the shva-na and the meteg.\r\n\r\nAt first. I was distracted by seemingly
  Hebrew experts as to the impossibility of doing this, as the use and placement of
  shva-na and meteg is purely grammatical, in their minds, and not at all contextual.\r\n\r\nSo,
  I consulted with two truly Hebrew language experts, Prof. Aron Dotan of Tel Aviv
  University in Ramat Aviv, Israel, and Rabbi Shmuel Rabin of Toronto, Canada, a Lubavitcher
  chossid. They confirmed that this indeed was possible. Rabbi Rabin warned though
  that this was very difficult according to the viewpoint of Rabbi Zalman Hanau.\r\n\r\nThere
  are basically three schools of thought based upon the writings of the Radak, Rabbi
  David Kimchi - the father of our understanding of Hebrew grammar. They are:\r\n\r\n1.
  Rabbi Zalman Hanau and most of Jewish thinking until about 225 years ago. The Chabad
  Lubavitch printing house in the USA, Kehos follows this approach.\r\n\r\n2. Rabbi
  Eliyahu Bachur, and later the Vilna Gaon. The ArtScroll printing house follows this
  approach.\r\n\r\n3. Minchas Shai. Shai LeMorah publishers of Jerusalem, and the
  Chabad Lubavitch printing house in Israel, Kehos, follow this approach.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> There are basically three schools of thought...\r\n\r\n...And one School
    of Headache.\r\n\r\n Your last post on that subject was 2 years ago! What do you
    want now?\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-22 07:47:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I was distracted for two years.\r\n\r\nExperts suggest that though the shva-na
    and meteg are based upon grammar rules, a different set of rules can be defined
    by context.\r\n\r\nHence, three sets of shva-na replacements are required to support
    these three school:\r\n\r\n1. Rabbi Zalman Hanau and most of Jewish thinking until
    about 225 years ago. The Chabad Lubavitch printing house in the USA, Kehos follows
    this approach.\r\n\r\n2. Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur, and later the Vilna Gaon. The ArtScroll
    printing house follows this approach.\r\n\r\n3. Minchas Shai. Shai LeMorah publishers
    of Jerusalem, and the Chabad Lubavitch printing house in Israel, Kehos, follow
    this approach."
  created: '2010-09-28 01:21:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, Eli Fried at the end of this thread: http://typophile.com/node/51733
    claims to do what you have been trying. But he had to include some kind of look-up
    for special cases. John Hudson argued that this belongs in an application rather
    than the font, but in any case it seems to have been done some way or other. \r\n\r\nSo
    what's wrong with his effort?"
  created: '2010-09-28 01:41:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I was distracted for two years.\r\n\r\nDon't work and watch TV :)\r\n\r\n\r\nSo
    where's the problem?\r\nYou have 'two truly Hebrew language experts', 'three schools
    of thought' (maybe add 2 eggs, 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup flour... and make Brownie)...
    \r\nwhat do you need?  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 04:48:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI haven't seen or used Eli's fonts. What does it mean: \"some
    kind of look-up for special cases\"? If there are three views of the Radak's rules,
    should there also be three versions of each font, to insert a shva-na according
    to R' Z. Hanau, or according to R' E. Bachur, or according to the Minchat Shai?\r\n\r\nI
    think that John's opinion was expressed when david and you were convinced that
    this would not be done. If we simply extend what John did for the furtive patach,
    to the shva-na, and to the meteg, then why would John conclude that this is out
    the realm for MS VOLT? John, am I correct?\r\n\r\nI was in contact with a Rabbi
    Shmuel Goldstein of Florida regarding the rules of shva-na, at rebbeg@gmail.com,
    who has ideas as well on this subject.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 20:48:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nTV? A Lubavitcher?\r\n\r\nBrownies? In the Sukkah?\r\n\r\nI
    plan to post a sample with the Shva-na fonts soon.\r\n\r\nAs I am doing a few
    jobs for custom OpenType fonts now, I imagine the posts will only occur later
    than sooner. In Appletalk, \"real soon now\". :)"
  created: '2010-09-28 20:53:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Israel, I thought I had been adequately clear all along that my objection
    to doing this with glyph substitution lookups has nothing to do with whether or
    not it might be possible; indeed, it if were not possible, what would be the point
    of having an objection? My point has always been that if an author or publisher
    wishes to visually distinguish sheva and sheva-nah, then it is presumably because
    he considers the distinction to be semantically important. If something is semantically
    important, then it should be possible to capture it and preserve it <em>in plain
    text,</em> i.e. at the character encoding level, not at the glyph processing level
    where it is subject to variant results in different software and is reliant on
    particular fonts. That is what I have stated repeatedly, and it has nothing to
    do with whether or not it is possible to do it at the glyph level in OpenType:
    it is about whether it <em>should</em> be done at that level.'
  created: '2010-10-01 05:10:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, my understanding is that the distinction between the sheva and sheva-nah
    is not semantic, but only a matter of correct pronunciation. David will correct
    me if I''m wrong, but I think there are no words that become ambiguous in meaning
    when a distinction between the two marks is lacking. '
  created: '2010-10-01 14:24:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I was careful not to use the word \u2018semantic\u2019 in my last post because
    I understand that it can be variously interpreted. What I said is that the distinction,
    if it is made, is meaningful to the person using it, and hence not something that
    should be lost in text interchange. A desired plain text distinction isn't necessarily
    one that conforms to the definition of semantic that you suggest: Unicode includes
    a number of mechanisms for preserving visual distinctions, or at least the desire
    for such distinction (e.g. the ZWJ mechanism for indicating a ligature), in plain
    text in situations in which these are meaningful to particular users or user communities.
    Such mechanisms include control character sequences, free variant selector characters,
    and also optional disunifications. Since we already have a good example of the
    latter in Hebrew in the disunification of U+05B8 and U+05C6 for optional plain
    text distinction of a difference in pronunciation, there is precedence for a similar
    approach to sheva-nah. Having multiple mechanisms, some character based and some
    glyph based, for parallel text processing issues strikes me as a bad idea, and
    clever though I am sure the glyph processing solutions are, the time spent on
    them might have been better employed in crafting and submitting Unicode and ISO
    encoding proposals. [Israel mentioned furtive patach; this is not a direct parallel,
    because the distinction is one of mark positioning, not glyph shape; the distinction
    is not lost in text interchange, since it is always reliant on intelligent layout
    capabilities, and a font that cannot correctly position furtive patach is actually
    broken, as distinct from the very many that deliberately make no distinction between
    e.g. qamats gadol and qamats qatan, or between sheva and sheva_nah."
  created: '2010-10-02 04:03:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI am not a chef, or a chef's son - although I make a mean omelete,
    and have a secret recipe for techina (that I might tell John if he say l'chayim).\r\n\r\nIf
    you master MS Volt, you'll see that mixing in the right ingrediants is just a
    small part. Right, John? "
  created: '2010-10-10 22:36:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nRabbinic Hebrew language experts in Israel pointed out certain
    words (even in the Bible) in the prayerbook which differ in meaning by pronouncing
    a word with or without the shva-na.\r\n\r\nHence, on certain words or prayers
    which are chanted, the distinction is key.\r\n\r\nYet, to this day, John, the
    Unicode Co. ignores this real practical need.\r\n\r\nPlus we need to teach Jewish
    children these matters, and serious Christian Bible students needs these matters
    as well. Are your contacts at SBL, John, aware of this?"
  created: '2010-10-10 22:43:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> My point has always been that if an author or publisher wishes to visually
    distinguish sheva and sheva-nah, then it is presumably because he considers the
    distinction to be semantically important. (John)\r\n\r\nSee above post."
  created: '2010-10-10 22:44:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  If something is semantically important, then it should be possible to
    capture it and preserve it in plain text, i.e. at the character encoding level,
    not at the glyph processing level where it is subject to variant results in different
    software and is reliant on particular fonts.  (John)\r\n\r\nHere is the error.
    \r\n\r\nHence, we wait, David. No Unicode code, no Volt. No ticky, no washy."
  created: '2010-10-10 22:47:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John\r\n\r\n>> ...it has nothing to do with whether or not it is possible
    to do it at the glyph level in OpenType: it is about whether it should be done
    at that level.\r\n\r\nBecause of this point, I had to banter with these for nearly
    a year. If you have said then: \"...it has nothing to do with whether or not it
    is possible to do it at the glyph level in OpenType\", then we could have argued
    about the Yankees and Red Sox - whose better? Yanks, Sox, Yanks, Sox..."
  created: '2010-10-10 22:51:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI'll respond to your John Hudson 1.Oct.2010 8.03pm soon, but
    you must catch my drift."
  created: '2010-10-10 22:52:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Rabbinic Hebrew language experts in Israel pointed out certain words (even
    in the Bible) in the prayerbook which differ in meaning by pronouncing a word
    with or without the shva-na.\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nSuch as...? "
  created: '2010-10-10 22:55:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIt's in an old email which I have (nothing gets lost on Gmail).\r\n\r\nIt's
    only a few words: one in Tanach; one is the prayerbook (even the Reform), and
    other is a very rare wierd word (it might be in Psalms).\r\n\r\nJohn has software
    for every Hebrew word with all nikud taam etc in Tanach.\r\n\r\nSo, I can't tell
    you now, but poor Bill has been pronouncing incorrectly for years. \r\nBut G-d
    is merciful. :)"
  created: '2010-10-10 23:33:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nDoes the database know where a shva-na should go?"
  created: '2010-10-10 23:35:15'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: You might take a look at the article "Shva" in Wikipedia, which is accurate
    so far as I understand the issue. As a practical matter of phonology, we might
    benefit more from differentiating the dagesh kal from dagesh hazak, than worrying
    about the shva-na and shva-nach, which need less practical guidance. People from
    the Middle East pronounce the doubled consonants of the dagesh hazak quite naturally,
    whereas Westerners have trouble. The only Western  language I know that has a
    similar doubled consonant is Catalan, which has a doubled L (lowercase) separated
    by a raised dot. It may well be an artifact of pre-1492 Spain.
  created: '2010-10-11 02:27:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> If you master MS Volt, you'll see that mixing in the right ingrediants
    is\r\n> just a small part\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat you do speaks so loudly that I cannot
    hear what you say."
  created: '2010-10-12 23:05:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "david,\r\n\r\nI don't understand.\r\n\r\nI do a few things, some for parnossa,
    some for future earnings, and others as Christians say because I feel that I have
    a calling.\r\n\r\nSome work that I do is to create Biblical Hebrew fonts, very
    high level OpenType fonts with MS Volt. This is mainly graphical programming,
    requiring intense logic. Few people, far less a dozen, perhaps a half a dozen
    or less.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson is one of them; I am another. Besides having brilliant
    logic, John is a fine mensch. \r\n\r\nI have not met anyone like him, with the
    exception of Scott-Martin Kesofsky. They are giants, and others are great but
    not giants. I wash dishes."
  created: '2010-10-13 15:30:51'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Israel (gohebrew)\r\n\r\n \"This is mainly graphical programming, requiring
    intense logic. Few people, far less a dozen, perhaps a half a dozen or less.\"\r\n\r\nBefore
    intense logic and all the rest of the mombojombo you must know what you'r doing,
    why are you doing it,who you are doing it for and what are you aiming for.\r\n\r\nmy
    personal filling is that you are somehow confused and not all that clear on the
    subject of this thread.\r\n\r\nbefore befor you get involved in the different
    opinions\r\nfirst get dwon the basics\r\nfirst stgae, the easiest on = Dagesh
    Kal & Dagesh Hazak\r\nthen work out the basic sheva na/nach\r\nthen work out the
    basic Qamats Rahav/Qatan\r\n\r\nfrom here on you strat refining the project.\r\nfor
    now don't concern your self with all of the arguments, just build a solid basic
    fonctioning font.\r\nonly then involve your self with the rest of the issues and
    take it as far as your \"Call\" calls for you.\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 02:57:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Hi Eli,\r\n\r\nI don't think that I am confused.\r\n\r\nI use Volt mainly
    for the improvement of nikkud, meteg, and taam (and the combinations thereof)
    of Hebrews via GSUB look-ups, originally written by John Hudson.\r\n\r\nShortly
    afterwards, I used the Volt software professionally, I discovered serious bugs
    with it. After testing the results of dozens of different possibilities I pinpointed
    and defined the problems. I created work-arounds, which I currently use. I stopped
    using John's 'program' after I taught myself how to create 'look-ups', 'GPOS',
    'GSUB', 'programs' etc., with initial help from Diane Collier, recommended by
    Microsoft Type.\r\n\r\nI believe I no longer have these bugs, after months of
    frustration.\r\n\r\nMS Volt is powerful software, even with the bugs. But its
    graphical interface appears for programmers, and not for designers, who seek something
    intuitive and easy to use.\r\n\r\nEli:\r\n> before before you get involved in
    the different opinions, first get down the basics.\r\nFirst stage, the easiest
    on = Dagesh Kal & Dagesh Hazak; then work out the basic sheva na/nach; then work
    out the basic Qamats Rahav/Qatan.\r\n\r\nIsrael: \r\nI decided to start with shva-na
    and meteg (among nikkud) because they could be contextually defined, and used
    in MS Volt with the GSUB routine - as explained to me by Prof. Aron Doton, formerly
    a Professor Emeritus at Tel Aviv University in Israel, and Rabbi Shmuel Rabin
    of Toronto, Canada, the greatest Hebrew language expert that I've spoken to. I
    feel privileged to have spoken with Prof. Doton, who at first thought it was impossible
    to contextually define a shva-na, because this was never done before. But, as
    a true genius, he thought about it in less than a minute, and changed his opinion.
    Rabbi Rabin never had a doubt, but warned that according to the view of Rabbi
    Zalman Henna or Hanau, this was exceeding difficult, as his rules were more complicated
    than that of the Minchat Shai (who we have on the entire Tanach), and Rabbi Eliyahu
    Bachur.\r\n\r\nWhich view do you follow? Rabbi Zalman Hanau (Henna), Minchat Shai,
    or Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 03:47:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli:\r\n\r\n> From here on you start refining the project.\r\nFor now don't
    concern yourself with all of the arguments, just build a solid basic fonctioning
    font. \r\nOnly then involve yourself with the rest of the issues and take it as
    far as your \"Call\" calls for you.\r\n\r\nIsrael:\r\n\r\nHow can a font be created
    in general, not according any particular view? I am not intending to do the shva-na
    work at the font level in FontLab Studio. Rather, the font is completed, and every
    shva is nach, then at the Volt level the shvas are changed in real time only to
    eith shva-nas or shva-nachs, like the furtive patach changes certain patachs to
    a furtive patach.\r\n\r\nThis is doable, but the look-ups, GPOS, and GSUB, is
    very time consuming, because pages (books really) of material must be reviewed
    carefully according to each viewpoint.\r\n\r\nThen, I must do the same for the
    meteg.\r\n\r\nAre you suggesting that this can be done for the dagesh kal/chazak
    (is there a visual difference), and komatz rabah/katan?"
  created: '2010-10-19 03:59:33'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Israel, Some Sheva Na's And Qamats Qatan depend on the dageshim there for
    starting directly with sheva na/nach is a mistake.\r\nForget Meteg, your waisting
    your time.\r\nYou must first understand what builds on what.\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael,
    regarding the 3 SHITOT, give it a rest.\r\nFirst start on what they all agree
    on.\r\nyou are not there yet.\r\n\r\nsecond, forget about the different views,
    and break it down to more detailed issues.\r\nbut again, you are not there yet.\r\n\r\nafter
    you hav a basic functioning font, then start talking about actual issues here
    on typophile every thing else is a bounch of mombojombo in the thin air and will
    lead you nowhere \r\nfor now, you are waisting yor own time and others who don't
    excactly understad what the hell you are talking about.\r\n\r\nwhen you bump your
    self with an actual issue, post a thread regarding the particular issue."
  created: '2010-10-19 04:10:27'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "btw, yor approach abount having the the defoult shevas as nachs is a mistake.\r\ni
    sugjest you first make all shevas to na and the work it down to nach.\r\n\r\nThe
    main reason is because you cant check a first letter of a word that is in a begining
    of a line, and all shevas at the first letter of a word is allways NA"
  created: '2010-10-19 04:18:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "to start explaining to you why not to deal with meteg is diffcult.\r\nbut
    in general try avoiding inserting glyphs into text at an OT level that should
    absolutly be done at the charecter level, never ever by OT.\r\n\r\nsheva na/nach
    ect, does not insert a sheva, just replaces them with alternates."
  created: '2010-10-19 04:29:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n> The main reason is because you can't check a first letter of
    a word that is in the beginning of a line; all shevas at the first letter of a
    word is allways NA.\r\n\r\nYes. We used to identify it with the boldened shva.\r\n\r\nBut
    today, we do not identify it. Hence, It appears like a shva-nach, no different
    in any way. Only when a shva appears in the middle of a word, then a floating
    graphic is inserted by the special OT font - on the screen, at the printer or
    PDF, but not in the file.\r\n\r\nAgain, my way seems logical and simpler, no?
    GSUB sees a certain string which according to the defined rules in GPOS look-ups
    based upon Gloyph Groups, then inserts above some shvas a floating glyph.\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't need to know if a dagesh is kal or chazak.\r\n\r\nA komatz katan can help
    define a shva-na I was told. In fact, I believe that the kollel is called Revach,
    in three words, the komatz is katan and then the shva is nach, but when the komatz
    is rabah, then the shva is na.\r\n\r\nSo, the three letters could simply be a
    Glyph Group. And we can save search for komatz katan later, if it can be defined
    contexually.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 04:50:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n> to start explaining to you why not to deal with meteg is diffcult.\r\nbut
    in general try avoiding inserting glyphs into text at an OT level that should
    absolutly be done at the charecter level, never ever by OT.\r\n\r\nHere I disagree.\r\n\r\nThe
    who purpose of Volt and an advanced OT font is remove the difficult decision making
    about diacritic placement from the typeetter, and to place it in the responsibility
    of the type designer.\r\n\r\nThe user does not to know where to place the komatz
    or patach. The type design needs to know, and place it correctly. If it's an aleph,
    it goes here; if it's a reish, it goes here. If it's a patach at the end of a
    word, and a hei, then replace it with a furtive patach.\r\n\r\nI want to do the
    same with a shva-na, and afterwards with a meteg if possible.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nThese
    are basic Hebrew grammar things that kids should learn, and teachers should teach.
    When a typesetter works on voweled Hebrew text, then these glyphs could be inserted
    automatically."
  created: '2010-10-19 05:02:13'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "You people are talking AS IF all the rules of shva-na / sheva hach are universally
    accepted by all authorities and all you have to now do is program them and, presto
    - you're done!\r\n\r\nNewsflash \u2013 nothing can be further from the truth!
    There are two major approaches to this subject alone. One the common one \u2013
    (accepted by Academia LeLashon HaYivrit); the other one is that of Rabbi Zalman
    Henau. The differences between the two are so many, it will make your head spin.
    Like \"malchuth\" vs. \"malechuth\"; \"ethchem\" vs. \"ethechem\", etc., etc.,
    etc.\r\n\r\nSecondly, there are various masoretic traditions and one man's sheva-na
    is another man's chataf-patach, etc.\r\n\r\nThe same applies to quamatz-koton.\r\n\r\nSO
    EVEN IF you wish to create a graphic differentiation between these vowels (and
    all attempts in this direction have thus far been hideously UGLY), you best leave
    this at up to the editor.\r\n\r\nLastly, the Tiberian system we use today doesn't
    distinguish between these vowels GRAPHICALLY. Why not just well enough alone? "
  created: '2010-10-19 06:34:20'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I think you have to separate the various issues:\r\n1) should the font even
    include automatic substitution.\r\n2) is the font trying to be 100% correct\r\n3)
    is the font trying to do this for a Tanakh with taamim or regular text\r\n4) is
    the font trying to cover all situations.\r\n\r\n1) Personally I don't think this
    should be encoded but if you are going to do it then...\r\n2) Clearly to anybody
    who actually understands the subject, this is impossible. However, there is value
    in being 90% accurate and then the proofreading will be quicker. If you imagine
    a text probably has to go through at least 4 professional passes, if there is
    less things on the line to correct, this will be more accurate. Here it could
    be useful.\r\n3) to those who understand the subject very well, then this point
    is crucial.\r\n4) I think that obviously each publishing house will have it's
    own set of rules and no font can cover each system. And frankly a publishing house
    wouldn't need such a font! However, there is value in creating a font with <em>a</em>
    system for those who actually want this for a different reason and that is for
    using it as a basis of transliterating the text. I can definately see a teacher
    or school buying such a typeface for use and then they can easily make a transliteration
    for kids. As my time as freelance typesetter for major Jewish publishing houses
    in the USA, I saw that they had \"experts\" transliterating texts with sooooo
    many mistakes, clearly demonstrating their lack of ability to read the Hebrew
    language correctly by <em>any</em> system. Having inspected Typograph's sample
    of Psalms that he posted, a font such as this, even though \"only\" 95% accurate
    out of the box, would be fantastic for hundreds of thousands of students where
    the people behind the project of that particular book don't have the knowledge
    or more importantly the budget to do the job 100% correctly and do a job that's
    at best 60% good.\r\n\r\nHowever, it is critical before embarking on such a mission
    to have the knowledge of grammar. It's clear that Typograph has this depth and
    breadth of knowledge, but with respect to gohebrew, I'm not sure a meeting with
    a Professor here (even it is Dotan) and Rabbi there is <em>quite</em> enough.
    I know that at Koren, the qualifications for doing this are at least a Masters
    in Hebrew grammar, preferably a Ph.D. so I would say to gohebrew, before continuing
    make sure you grammar knowledge is at the level of Typograph's otherwise I'm not
    sure what the point of the font is.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 07:37:36'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Rephael:\r\nat the begining of my first response to this thread i wrote\r\n\r\n\"Before
    intense logic and all the rest of the mombojombo you must know what you'r doing,
    why are you doing it,who you are doing it for and what are you aiming for.\"\r\n\r\nBefore
    intense logic and all the rest of the mombojombo you must know what you'r doing.\r\n++++
    knowing the basics of the job at hand and what it takes.\r\nwhy are you doing
    it\r\n++++ what are you going to solve\r\nwho you are doing it for\r\n++++ who
    is going to use it and does my work needed for them\r\n and what are you aiming
    for.\r\nto what level of accuarcy are you trying to get to.\r\n\r\nNo ISRAEL (gohebrew),
    i don't car who you spoke with and what was said to you.\r\nright now you are
    not in a position to agree or disagree with me because you are clearly laking
    the basic knoledge.\r\n\r\nI'm the only one (for now) who actualy programed this
    functions in a font (In VOLT) and actualy put it to test with sevral editors and
    print houses around the world who used it to print sidurim and chumashim. i have
    studied their problems and what can i solve automaticly and what i allow them
    manualy to change.\r\n\r\nProffesor Dotan With all do respect does not know programing
    nor volt.\r\nSo he can give you a theoretic opinion, I am sharing with you my
    knoledge after actual experience and know exactly what can be programed and what
    are the limitations of such a project.\r\n\r\nso me to have no opinion.\r\nI AM
    TELLING YOU ABSOLUTLY WHAT CAN AND CANNOT BE DONE!!!\r\nI know that my writing
    right now aound arragent and all knowing, but my intention is to put you on the
    right path and save you houres of work.\r\n\r\nNow, If you want to be a scientist
    then go right ahead and try your self what can and can not be done, be my guest.
    otherwise what i have said is absolute with no place of argument from your side.\r\n\r\nWhen
    i tell you to give up on Metegs, I know what i am talking about.\r\n\r\nBoruch:\r\nThere
    are basics way befor all the SHITOT.\r\nAll this issus are left to the editor
    to decide.\r\nI have pre-made lookup for different issues wich i attach to the
    project according to different needs.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 09:11:02'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew:\r\nYou can weist your time with all kind of proffesors.\r\nMy advice
    Again, Jump in to the cold water and then start dealing with problems and diffculties
    that you encounter as you go along.\r\n\r\nand another tip.\r\nknowing the grammer
    alone is not enough\r\nyou must understand them as well.\r\nas you swim in to
    deep water, you will se that alot of rules you are going to make up yourself (The
    rules of grames i cal KLALIM GEDOLIM And the one i made up i call KELALIM KETANIM)."
  created: '2010-10-19 09:27:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nFirst, I want to thank you for your advice and tips.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    realize that much of my seeming opposition is very like that of my brainy brother-in-law,
    the devil's advocate.\r\n\r\nIt seems that Boruch my friend, Raphael, and you,
    have not seen my lone tree in perceiving the vast forest of Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nI
    am a simple Jew with limited knowledge and experience in these matters. I know
    Volt (which after one masters it, it seems very simple), how to define a glyph
    group, and the two kinds of look-ups, GPOS and GSUB.\r\n\r\nAnd the great elderly
    Prof. Dotan, and the even greater young man, Rabbi Rabin, affirm that the shva-na
    can be defined contextually - and Volt can replace things contextually, so I feel
    that Volt can do the desired task.\r\n\r\nI have no MA in Hebrew grammar, or even
    a BA in Hebrew grammar, Raphael. \r\n\r\nI simply have a lot of Shai L'Morah books
    with nikkud and shva-nas, based upon the Minchat Shai's approach to the shva-na,
    two lots of ArtScroll books with nikkud and shva-nas, based upon Rabbi Eliyahu
    Bachur's approach to the shva-na, and three lots of Kehot USA books with nikkud
    and shva-nas, based upon Rabbi Zalman Henna's approach to the shva-na.\r\n\r\nSo,
    I believe that I have all the research material staring me in the face. I have
    the necessary knowledge of Volt. 1 + 1 = 2.\r\n\r\nMy intention is not financially
    motivated. I simply want to take the knowledge of when a shva-na is needed away
    from the scholars with MAs or PhDs, and to return it to children and their teachers.\r\n\r\nEli,
    your approach seems logical and tested, but I feel my approach works best for
    the contextual approach.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson, who has this database of every verse
    with nikkud taam and meteg? Do they have the Chapters of the Fathers with nikkud
    and meteg, and the Jewish prayerbook with nikkud and meteg as well? Can you hook
    me up with them?\r\n\r\nIf Unicode had a shva-na encoded, and professional scanning
    software supported nikkud taam and meteg, then I could create my own database.\r\n\r\nSo,
    Eli, Boruch, and Raphael, do you grasp my intent now?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-19 11:32:13'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew.\r\nto start learning a subject just to pass it on to children dos'nt
    seem logical to me.\r\nsecond, if thats is your only intention so the ansawr allready
    exists why work a year on it????\r\nas you stated before there are 3 main shitot,
    you want to teach it via a font??? that seems farfeched.\r\n\r\nas i said befor,
    you are totaly not clear with your self, what you are doing? why? and for whom.\r\n\r\nwhen
    ever you decide to land on planet earth, and talk about defined issues, I would
    be more than happy to discuse them with you, but the way things are going now,
    your \"shtik\" has no interest for any one on typophile."
  created: '2010-10-19 14:51:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>> learning a subject just to pass it on to children dos'nt seem
    logical to me.\r\nsecond, if thats is your only intention so the ansawr allready
    exists why work a year on it????\r\n\r\n>> 200 plus years ago, our (very big)
    rabbis decided to limit teachers and students from understanding Hebrew grammar
    well, as they did in generations earlier. Why did they do this?\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael:\r\n\r\nAt
    that time, the Maskilim (The Early Reform) knew Hebrew grammar very well, dressed
    as Chassidic Jews, and tried to lead actual Chassidic youth away from Torah observance.
    Hence, our (very big) rabbis decided that to identify and kick out Maskilim, that
    generation's frum youth should not know Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nThis went on for
    generations.\r\n\r\nToday, there no longer are Maskilim. Even the modern reform
    seek Jewish values to enrich their lives, because they see their path leads to
    widespread assimilation.\r\n\r\nI seek to bring Hebrew grammar back to the fold.\r\n\r\nMy
    primary occupation in Volt-based Hebrew type design. I plan to return to full-time
    ePublishing through GoHebrew at www.GoHebrew.com and other web sites. I am also
    coordinating the massive Schneersohn at www.GoTalmud.com - both of which are a
    year away from earning money.\r\n\r\nThis endeavor is pro-bono.\r\n\r\n\r\nEli:\r\n\r\n>
    as you stated before there are 3 main shitot, you want to teach it via a font???
    that seems farfeched.\r\n\r\nIsrael:\r\n\r\nNo, I am no teacher. The Volt-based
    shva-na fonts are the tools for the classroom.\r\n\r\n\r\nEli:\r\n\r\n>> As I
    said before, you are totaly not clear with yourself, what you are doing? why?
    and for whom?\r\n\r\nIsrael:\r\n\r\nI was and am clear. Bill, don't you think
    that this was clear? Don't you think every Jewish school would want this? "
  created: '2010-10-19 16:35:17'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew, again this is all talk in the air, no one is interested to read
    long threads about you wanting to do X and going on and on about it.\r\n\r\nI
    think that after 2 years it's time to talk Haloche Lemaase.\r\n\r\nTachles, do
    you have any questions about X,Y,Z??? somthing people can relate too and discuse???
    if yes so lets talk, if not it starts to be enoying."
  created: '2010-10-19 18:01:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "As I explained, I am not ding this Hebrew grammar stuff as a job. So, it's
    slow.\r\n\r\nFirst, I must complete research on what strings cause a shva to be
    shva-na.\r\n\r\nThis can be done according to the Minchat Shai, Rabbi R' Shlomo
    Yedidiah Nortzi or Rabbi Shmuel Yitzhak Schor of Munstritz, since the Shai L'Morah
    books are extensive, while according to Rabbi Zalman Henna, used by much of Chabad,
    this is less. Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur, used by ArtScroll at times, this is even much
    less. \r\n\r\nMaybe, something will be tachlis on the tisch in another year or
    too.\r\n\r\nThank you for your help until now."
  created: '2010-10-19 18:22:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Bill, don't you think that this was clear?\r\n\r\nIt's clear that you want
    to use open type to automatically set the kamatz katan and sheva na. It's not
    at all clear why and how you want to do this, especially now that Eli Fried has
    already done it\u2014though Raphael Freeman thinks his effort is, and can be,
    only partially successful. \r\n\r\nI think what Eli is reacting to in his comments
    is that you don't seem to understand the recursive character of the special grammatical
    rules here. Eli is telling you you need to first set what is a strong and regular
    dagesh before you can automate other stuff, because other stuff is dependent on
    that. Recursive here means there are rules built on top of other rules, and if
    you try to define only from immediate context it can't be done at all. So I think
    Eli Fried was telling you there is no way to avoid learning the grammar very well,
    to do this programming at all successfully. \r\n\r\nAs to whether Religious schools
    will want this, I think that depends on the religious school. \r\n\r\nThe history
    here is informative to me. Thanks to David Hamuel sending it to me, I have read
    William Chomsky's article \"The Pronunciation of the Shewa.\" There Chomsky, as
    I read him, explains the history thus: these current \"rules\" were first laid
    out by David Kimhi, also known by the acronym Radak, who died in 1235. These rules
    were not only unknown before this, but were contradicted by other previous great
    scholars. Kimhi introduced the idea of long and short vowels, and a new view of
    when to pronounce the sheva. Chomsky argues that in fact, these rules were never
    followed before Kimhi. In other words, Kimhi didn't get Hebrew grammar right.
    He invented some complexities that never existed in spoken Hebrew, or the system
    of nikkud. \r\n\r\nHowever, Radak's innovations\u2014some of which were genuine
    and correct new insights\u2014were accepted by later grammarians. Thus the partially
    incorrect ideas were accepted as \"correct\" and became traditional, even though
    incorrect. Now you have a situation in which, I gather, there are competing diverse
    traditions built upon Radak's mistakes, all of which are thought to be holy and
    correct by their adherents. But even they cannot be reduced to rules that don't
    have exceptions. So Raphael Freeman has four authorities who go over text to get
    it right by their lights\u2014and another authority will probably disagree.\r\n\r\nSo
    what rules going to be helpful to a religious school or synagogue will depend
    on what tradition and authority they adhere to as relates to this. \r\n\r\nPersonally
    I find most helpful is what Chomsky explains as the current rules of spoken Hebrew
    for the sheva na, which he says were in fact followed by both Ashkenazim in Europe
    and Sephardi style in Israel. And they are simple. If there are two shevas in
    succession the first is silent, the second pronounced. You also get a spoken sheva
    at the beginning of the word, when the first letter is a \"liquid consonant\"
    (yod, lamed, men, nun, resh) with a sheva, or when it is a prefixed preposition
    (bet, kaf, lamed), or a conjunctive vav. Otherwise, all shevas are silent, including
    at the beginning of a word. There are some more complications, but that's basically
    it. These rules make total sense to my mouth and my brain.  \r\n\r\nFor those
    of us who are struggling with learning Hebrew just an visual indication of those
    rules would be convenient. And as far as God understanding the prayers, I think
    He'll do just fine in any case. David tells me that Chomsky also got some stuff
    wrong, but in any case for me the actual rules of spoken Hebrew is what I'd be
    very happy with. \r\n\r\nThe whole Kimhi epicycles within epicycles stuff about
    the sheva na is, if William Chomsky is right, a wrong turn in Hebrew grammar anyway.
    However, Kimhi's work was I believe an inspiration for William Chomsky's son,
    Noam, to come up with \"transformational-generative grammar\" as a theory of the
    grammar of all languages, and that has made a big splash in the world of linguistics.
    \    \r\n\r\n       "
  created: '2010-10-20 03:03:49'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "William:\r\nMainly, what i was triying to get to, is bringing this discution
    down to actual.\r\nall of our talk abov and in general is a weist of time.\r\n\r\nA
    project like this is based upon grammatical rules, however not every rule can
    be applied, so you must work your way arround it.\r\n\r\nprograming a project
    to work 100% is not possible.\r\nthe idea is not to make a project that one simply
    uses and there he as it, but to provide a powerfull tool for people who know the
    grammer to produce sidurim and chumashim with sheva na\\nach faster.\r\n\r\nso
    the font does its thing to 99.98% with taamei mikra and let say 98% without Taamey
    mikra. wich is acceptable.\r\n\r\nfurthermor, it is imposible to program this
    kind of project base only on grammer rule.\r\ni cannot put in all the Shorashim
    Hatayot and so on in the font, I can only make disitions based on what i have
    before and after the sheva, wich means, i can not make desitions based on SHORASHIM,
    PEALIM and so on. (sometimes yes, but not every where).\r\n\r\nany how, what i
    was trying to do, is bring this thread down to earth, discusing particular issues
    and not tawsing around opinions that have no actual perpose.\r\n\r\nI read alot
    on typophile but hardly write.\r\none reason is because my english spelling is
    horrible.\r\nSecond, for most issues there are enough people here to ansawr them.\r\nhere
    i wrote because i thought that this discution could be interesting.\r\nbut as
    thing are going here i am getting bord.\r\nI thing i have what to say or add in
    this topic, i studied this issue, but all of this high talk, is not for me"
  created: '2010-10-20 10:02:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>>  A project like this is based upon grammatical rules...\r\n\r\nI
    asked Prof Aron Dotan of North Tel Aviv, and Rabbi Shmuel Rabin of Toronto, two
    world class experts in Hebrew grammar, if the shva-na - normally defined by grammatical
    rules - could also be defined by context?\r\n\r\nThey both said yes.\r\n\r\nDotan
    advised to study the nikkud very carefully.\r\nRabin warn that Henna's system
    is very complex, but can be done.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:31:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> programing a project to work 100% is not possible.\r\n\r\nthey disagree.
    who knows more?"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:32:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nPlease explain why programming or even knowledge of dagesh chazak
    or kal is necessay to define a shva-na - as Bill interpreted you to say?"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:35:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew, I said before i dont care who you spoke with.\r\n\r\nTell me.\r\nIf
    i hav a word with a qamts and the next word with a sheva\r\nhow do i know if the
    qamats is qatan and the sheva is nach, or the qamats is gadol and the sheva is
    na???\r\nSo if i have a meteg next to the qamats it means that the qamats is gadol
    and the sheva is na, but if you alone are going to insert metegs then you are
    going to get in to a big mishqebabel\r\n\r\nJust one example.\r\nIsrael, you can
    do what ever you want, but you are banging your head against the solid wall.\r\n\r\ninstead
    of talking as if you know your stuff, why not be huble and simply ask the right
    questions, question i can ansawr you in detail????"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:39:50'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew in sefer Ester the word \u05E8\u05B4\u05E6\u05B0\u05E4\u05B7\u05EA
    the sheva is na or nach?????? and why???\r\nansawr that and the will talk further"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:44:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>>  instead of talking as if you know your stuff, why not be
    huble and simply ask the right questions, question i can ansawr you in detail????\r\n\r\nDo
    I claim to know anything from my own pupick?\r\nWhatever I know is from what people
    told me or taught me.\r\nI try to verify everything.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:49:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  a word with a qamts and the next word with a sheva\r\nhow do i know if
    the qamats is qatan and the sheva is nach, or the qamats is gadol and the sheva
    is na???\r\n\r\nwords or letters.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\njohn hudson, what is (if any)
    is the upward limit in a string of glyphs that Volt can handle."
  created: '2010-10-20 15:51:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>> ... if i have a meteg next to the qamats it means that the
    qamats is gadol and the sheva is na ...\r\n\r\nWhere is the shva?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n=========================\r\nTHIS
    IS AN IMPORTANT RULE\r\n=========================\r\n\r\nISRAEL, PLEASE VERIFY
    IT\r\n\r\n++++++++++++++++\r\n----------------\r\n****************\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:55:26'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: sorry, i mean a letter with qamats followd by a letter with sheva
  created: '2010-10-20 15:56:51'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gow hebrew, one of the usages of meteg aftar a qamats is to indicate that
    the qamats is GADOL and the sheva at the following letter is a sheva na.\r\n\r\nby
    the way, you should know, that the qamats qatan is popular, but did you know that
    thers is also a segol qatan or patah gadol accourding to some MEDAKDEKIM??? "
  created: '2010-10-20 16:00:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>>  a letter with qamats followd by a letter with sheva\r\n\r\n\r\n=============================================================\r\n+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\r\n-------------------------------------------------------------\r\n*************************************************************"
  created: '2010-10-20 16:41:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>   but did you know that thers is also a segol qatan or patah gadol accourding
    to some MEDAKDEKIM???\r\n\r\n\r\nare they visually indicated?\r\ncan you cite
    examples for each?\r\n\r\njohn hudson, more glyphs?"
  created: '2010-10-20 16:43:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n<em>John Hudson, who has this database of every verse with
    nikkud taam and meteg? Do they have the Chapters of the Fathers with nikkud and
    meteg, and the Jewish prayerbook with nikkud and meteg as well?</em>\r\n\r\nSomeone
    might, but not my sources, who are Christian Bible publishers working from the
    Westminster Theological College electronic Tanakh. [The WTC text uses a custom
    encoding to capture more distinctions than are possible in Unicode, e.g. between
    regular and furtive patach, and this is then converted to Unicode by various publishers
    for use with OpenType fonts such as SBL Hebrew.]\r\n\r\nI've not come across electronic
    texts and analysis of Jewish prayer books etc., but then I have not been looking.\r\n\r\n<em>john
    hudson, what is (if any) is the upward limit in a string of glyphs that Volt can
    handle.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think there is a limit, but I have not stress tested
    this.\r\n\r\nI have two concerns with really long glyph context strings. First
    is processing time, i.e. such lookups might slow down text layout and rendering
    appreciably. Second is that if contexts involve word boundaries (which implies
    not only the word space but also maqaf) they may be broken by line breaking (OTL
    glyph runs do not cross line breaks). This is another reason why OTL GSUB is not
    an appropriate tool to implement grammar."
  created: '2010-10-20 17:40:31'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Oy, okay, here I get baited in again. Well done Mr Seldowitz.\r\n\r\nI think
    this is what is happening. Gohebrew has heard that something from experts in the
    field that something is theoritically possible and he wants to go ahead and try
    and do it.\r\n\r\nNow, an expert, in this particularly case, Typograph (and <em>I'm</em>
    calling him an expert) has done this nearly 100%. But typograph has stated that
    his purpose here is quite specific, ie to speed up the editorial process. This
    is quite a clever approach. That a fount is designed to help you editorially.
    This is not something that founts normally do nor are they classically supposed.
    \r\n\r\nFor example, the autocorrect rules of mispelling, or say space hyphen
    space could be substited on the fly with the correct spelling or typographical
    style (in my opinion, space en-dash space and in somebody elses, just a very long
    em-dash :-) )\r\n\r\nFonts are not <em>supposed,</em> to do that. But we all agree
    that it's okay for a font to substitute ffi for the appropriate ligature, so why
    not space dash space? And why not incorrect spelling.\r\n\r\nLet's go down the
    avenue of spelling to clarify this thread and gohebrew's problem.\r\n\r\nWhat
    typograph is saying is that yes, in theory, you could program a font to fix all
    your spelling mistakes, but in practice, let's just take the majority of common
    ones. To jump back to the substitution of shva na etc., to make it work for 99%
    is X amount of time, to make it work for 100% is 100 of years of work and VOLT
    wouldn't be able to compile it anyway.\r\n\r\nBUT, the real problem is that gohebrew's
    knowledge is so far from understanding even the basics, that perhaps he should
    be focusing on font design and other typographic pursuits rather than getting
    involved in a whole area of expertise that he doesn't have and frankly, except
    for specialised situations that typograph is in where this bizarre autocorrect
    actually makes sense, it shouldn't be in most foundry's founts anyway!"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:56:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nMy purpose (the dishe washer) and that of the fine type designer
    and knowledgeable Volt programmer Typograph are very different.\r\n\r\nHe seeks
    to speed up the editorial process with his custom commercial product.\r\nI seek
    in contrast not to do this at all. Perhaps, it will have that benefit as well.\r\n\r\nI
    seek rather to return the 'crown of glory to where it was', as we say in Hebrew,
    and Rabbi Meir Mazuz Shit\"a wrote to me regarding the Standard Edition of the
    Talmud, entitled \"The Schneersohn Talmud\" (www.GoTalmud.com):\r\n\u05DC\u05D4\u05D7\u05D6\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05E2\u05D8\u05E8\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D9\u05D5\u05E9\u05E0\u05D4\r\n\r\nMy intention
    in that all students of Hebrew grammar shall see wherever text has nikkud, and
    they should know what is.\r\n\r\nI think that is a valid reason. Don't you?"
  created: '2010-10-20 19:17:57'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: Nope for all the reasons that I've already mentioned half a dozen times.
  created: '2010-10-20 19:25:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Well, you think Koren was created only in Eliyahu's pen...
  created: '2010-10-20 19:30:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Eli, I''m afraid I wasn''t clear why I dragged in William Chomsky''s views.
    There was actually a practical point, which I''m afraid I wasn''t clear about.
    The practical point is that I think in *liberal* Jewish siddurim it would make
    more sense to use the system of spoken Hebrew for the sheva na, as Chomsky outlines,
    rather than the arcane rules developed after Kimhi, and over which there is disagreement.
    I am guessing that over 90% of the time the sheva na appears, it follows the simpler
    rules, anyway, though I don''t know. '
  created: '2010-10-20 20:46:59'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew >>> \"Well, you think Koren was created only in Eliyahu's pen...\"\r\nwhat
    is this to do with anything.\r\n\r\nI am starting to get the feeling that I am
    talking to the wall.\r\nyour not interested to learn and studie the subject, you
    just want to force the world to agree with your NARISHKEIT.\r\n\r\nWell, Good
    lock doing so.\r\nBTW, in sevral cases you quote people for things they never
    said or mean to proove some kakamaiky point that makes no difference in the world.\r\n
    that is annoying\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 21:24:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nThe 3 views of shva-na are 'above' the manner in which one pronounces
    Hebrew words, the manner in which one prays or thinks.\r\n\r\nA kamatz katan and
    kamatz katan are pronounced the same in Israel, I believe.\r\n\r\nIt's just Hebrew
    grammar - no Reform this or that."
  created: '2010-10-20 21:35:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew.\r\nalso in spoken hebrew there is a differens.\r\npeople say kol
    haolam and not kal haolam.\r\nthey say oniya and not aniya.\r\nChochma and not
    chachma\r\n\r\nin written modern hebrew thay don't care for graphical indication,
    but in pronounciation for sure there is a differens"
  created: '2010-10-20 22:19:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>> they don't care\r\n\r\nI disagree."
  created: '2010-10-20 22:42:46'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "U disagree?????\r\ntry selling the idea in Isreal and tell me your findings.\r\nI
    check it out and found that in normal hebrew \"they don't care for it\"\r\n\r\nso
    stop agreeing or disagreeing and do your research and check out what is happening
    in the real world.\r\nBTW, I do get the feeling that you are talking from your
    PUPIK"
  created: '2010-10-20 22:54:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I'm not selling the idea, get it.\r\n\r\nMy target audience is not necessarily
    the State of Israel.\r\n\r\nGoHebrew will grant it to qualified applicants, like
    schools, students, teachers, and scholars, and deduct from their taxes. It's really
    not for business.\r\n\r\nI starting doing serious research months ago.\r\n\r\nMy
    pupik says to grow my hair long, have a few girlfriends, and live on some beach."
  created: '2010-10-20 23:39:15'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew, why work so hard if the solution already exists?\r\njust because
    you want to be the one to do it?????\r\n\r\nI saw your fonts, they are all copies
    of existing fonts.\r\nwhy not invest your time in designing a new typeface (not
    a renewal of old fonts, or font that already exists???? Like haddasa or vilna.\r\n\r\ncopying
    existing fonts does not qualify you as a type designer.\r\ntry designing new fonts
    with a new design concept.\r\n\r\nI'll tel you what, if you design a special font
    for schools, I will add to it the functions of sheva na/nach for you, and like
    this you save months and months of hard work.\r\n\r\nbut you are going to say
    NO to my offer, wich means your perpose is not schools nor students. \r\n\r\nso
    stop bobling around and start defining what is it exactly you are doing.\r\n\r\nagain,
    it might be clear to your self your purpose, but no one else gives a damn.\r\npeople
    here want to talk actual in a way they can learn somthing new.\r\n\r\nthe only
    thing you are talking about is a personal \"SHTIK\" of yours that no one cares
    about.\r\nand doing so you are irritating and lowing the level of this forum.\r\nif
    you just want to show off do it some were else.\r\n\r\nyou are realy getting  on
    my nervse.\r\nallthough others here do not express their feelings about your on
    going blobber,I believe they feel exactly like me.\r\n\r\nall your talk on typophile
    is trying to show your self off that you hav a say in typeographical matters,
    where the truth is, you are showing people here who are real experts that you
    have no clue of what you are talking about.\r\n\r\ninsulting KOREN, or Mike tompson
    (who i cam to like alot) and your rude talk and long posts,and mis quoting proffesionals
    to proove a kakamaiky point.\r\nI am suprised they hav'nt banned you from typophil
    a long time ago.\r\n\r\nwhat ever you are doing, stop it.\r\nTypophile is a place
    for proffesional talk, or for people who wish to learn more about typographical
    subjects, not for people who knock down others and talk rubbish just to proove
    to the world that they also exist.\r\n\r\nno one cares about the fact that you
    are doing research, some might care to here the results of the research.\r\n\r\nup
    untill now, i havn't learnt any thing new from all of your bluble.\r\nso please,
    take a break, and when you hav some informative information you wish to share
    or discuse post them, and be sure i will be the first one to participate.\r\n\r\nyour
    talk now reduces the trust in your threads.\r\n\r\nI normally don't attack in
    forums, but you crossed the line a long time ago.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 02:45:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nDo you want to  give your automatic shva-na away for free? I
    doubt it.\r\n\r\nRomm Vilna has not existed for about 100 years. The Communists
    closed the plant just after the revolution over 100 years ago. The Nazis \u05D9\u05DE\u05D7
    \u05E9\u05DE\u05DD burned the plant down during their occupation of Western Russia.\r\n\r\nNobody
    created it since, until my efforts. It will be commercially available in 2020,
    after I (and others) complete the \"Schneersohn Project\".\r\n\r\nThird paragraph...phhh!"
  created: '2010-10-21 02:58:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> copying existing fonts does not qualify you as a type designer.\r\ntry
    designing new fonts with a new design concept.\r\n\r\nSee the font Purim Party
    in another blog on font designs. The goal there was to make party invitations
    with Broadway."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:01:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I'll tel you what, if you design a special font for schools, I will add
    to it the functions of sheva na/nach for you, and like this you save months and
    months of hard work.\r\n\r\nLet's take by Skype next week. I have your contact
    number. When is a good time to call? Your time."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:03:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "But the first shva-na at the beginning of a word is not necessary.\r\n\r\nCan
    you add automatically the kamatz katan and gadol, the dagesh chazak and kal.\r\n\r\nWhy
    can't you add a meteg?"
  created: '2010-10-21 03:06:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> so stop bobling around and start defining what is it exactly you are doing.\r\n\r\nThree
    things.\r\n\r\na.  Type for parnasa.\r\n\r\nb.  GoHebrew for selling online.\r\n\r\nc.
    \ The Schneersohn Talmud and DPO to finance it."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:08:50'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "the main reason is, is that i use the meteg to decide all kind od stuff regarding
    sheva and qamats.\r\n\r\nsecond reason is becuse meteg is widly missed use for
    all kind of other perposes\r\n1. melail and melera\r\n2. they use it as Kav-Mafsik.\r\n3.
    as meteg as you know it.\r\n4. never insert glyphes that do not exist in the actual
    text.\r\nusing different forms for existing characters is one thing, allowing
    an open type to insert glyphes that were not typed by hand is a big NO NO"
  created: '2010-10-21 03:33:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nDid I ever insult Mike Tompson or Koren.\r\n\r\nMike is doing
    land-breaking work. In the Hebrew at leat.\r\n\r\nI always said Koren was a world-class
    type designer.\r\n\r\nLike Narkiss, Koren neglected to cite his sources. Typical
    dib."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:43:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Who is Mike Tompson?
  created: '2010-10-21 04:02:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nI like the way Eli is banging your mombojombo. I'll do the
    same shortly (I'm just tooooo busy).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> Eli,\r\n\r\n> Did I ever
    insult Mike Tompson or Koren.\r\n\r\n> Who is Mike Tompson?\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nWho's
    Israel?"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:06:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIt would be an honor.\r\n\r\nBtw, I saw some of your fonts
    at MasterFont. There must be a better way.\r\n\r\nOne of our customers bought
    Narkissim from MasterFont yesterday, for me to do special custom work on it. We
    always insist that they purchase fonts that I work on.\r\n\r\nThe outlines for
    Aleph-Beit were superb, but the nikkud stunk and some were missing. Not professional.
    Does MasterFont test their products?"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:07:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Btw, I saw some of your fonts at MasterFont\r\n\r\nHuh? good to know. Do
    you have a link?"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:09:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I'm sorry; it was not MasterFont, by www.MyFonts.com. Most of the Hebrew
    fonts at MyFonts are from MasterFont. It was my mistake.\r\n\r\nThe link is:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/lighthouse/hamuel-nine-five/\r\n\r\nThe
    company that published was LightHouse.\r\n\r\nThe fonts are very attractive, and
    professionally made.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt said there:\r\n\r\n\r\nHamuel Nine Five was
    inspired by two sources, both with few letters, and different styles.\r\n\r\nThe
    first one was a fresco in the el-Transito Synagogue, Toledo, built in 1357 by
    order of Samuel Abulafia, treasurer to the king of Castile.\r\n\r\nThe second
    one was a mezuzah cover, Morocco, 19th century.\r\n\r\nHamuel Nine Five is an
    OpenType/TTF Unicode font.\r\n\r\n\r\nDesigners: David Hamuel\r\nDesign date:
    2006\r\nPublisher: LightHouse\r\nMyFonts debut: Jan 4, 2007\r\n\r\n\r\nLighthouse
    Type is the foundry of type and graphic designer David Hamuel.\r\n\r\nDavid\u2019s
    versatile career began working on the other side of typography as a reporter &
    editor for newspaper, tv, and radio.\r\n\r\nAmong his experiences, as a political
    and election consultant he combined his knowledge in journalism, type design,
    and graphic design.\r\n\r\nDavid Hamuel specializes in designing Hebrew, Latin,
    Arabic, Greek, and Cyrillic fonts, as well as multilingual typography, and lettering.\r\n\r\n\r\nLighthouse
    Type is the foundry of type and graphic designer David Hamuel.\r\n\r\nDavid\u2019s
    versatile career began working on the other side of typography as a reporter &
    editor for newspaper, tv, and radio.\r\n\r\nAmong his experiences, as a political
    and election consultant he combined his knowledge in journalism, type design,
    and graphic design.\r\n\r\nDavid Hamuel specializes in designing Hebrew, Latin,
    Arabic, Greek, and Cyrillic fonts, as well as multilingual typography, and lettering.\r\n\r\n\r\nParticipating
    since: Jan 4, 2007\r\nLocation:\r\nLightHouse Type\r\nChatsworth, CA 91311\r\nUnited
    States of America\r\n \r\nDavid Hamuel\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 06:07:03'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "actually, yes you have insulted Koren many times. You insulted Eliyahu Koren,
    you have insulted the company and you have insulted me personally.\r\n\r\nbefore
    opening a font and customising it, you have to make sure that the font license
    allows this. I know that Fontbit and Masterfont DO NOT allow this.\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that you say categorically that in Israel we don't distinguish between kamatz
    katan and kamatz gadol is evidence of the absolute drivel you post. Of course
    we distinguish both in speech and every kid learns it in school!!!! \r\n\r\nPlease
    please please before posting rubbish, check that it's true. "
  created: '2010-10-21 09:05:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I don't think I ever insulted you. If you are offended you, I am sorry.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    don't think I ever insulted your company. If your boss is offended, I am sorry.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    don't think I ever insulted Eliyahu Koren obm, the great Israeli type designer.
    If he is offended, I ask his forgiveness from heaven. How many people studied
    Tanach because of him?\r\n\r\n\r\nI mere said, and I still contend that, like
    all firms, your firm spurns height and OK, its just hype. A four letter word called
    hype.\r\n\r\nSoon, it will be documented that the great Israeli type designers,
    Tzvi Narkiss a\"h and Eliyahu Koren's designs were based upon much older designs
    of unnamed designers. \r\n\r\nYou disagree. You have a vested interest to disagree.\r\n\r\nI
    saw Tzvi Narkiss' design on a concentration camp poster. Scott-Martin Kesofky
    knows the name of the Nazi concentration camp, and the date. I still have the
    image in my mind's eye.\r\n\r\nRegarding the Koren design semi-look-alike, I no
    longer have the image in my mind. I did go to RIT and saw many many Hebrew letter
    designs. The Koren-like intrigued me, as I recall. I asked for it and others to
    be copied, and I scanned all the copies. \r\n\r\nAlso, Ari Davidow, the great
    Californian Hebrew and Yiddish typesetter, as good as you, sent me a package of
    Hebrew type wood-cuts copied or printed, when he traveled to New York city to
    visit the super-great Hebrew type designer, Itamar David obm.\r\n\r\nI have already
    implemented one of his drawings, and called it, Itamar. My goal is to revive all
    his some 15 drawings. Only David was made in his lifetime.\r\n\r\nEliyahu Koren
    and Tzvi Narkiss pale in comparision to Itamar David. Only Henri Friedlaender
    obm is second to Itamar David.\r\n\r\nBefore you went to KP, you thought the same.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 09:38:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> The fact that you say categorically that in Israel we don't distinguish
    between kamatz katan and kamatz gadol is evidence of the absolute drivel you post.
    Of course we distinguish both in speech and every kid learns it in school!!!!\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    didn't sat that \"in Israel we don't distinguish between kamatz katan and kamatz
    gadol\". \r\n\r\nI said that in Sephardic pronunciation both a kamatz gadol is
    pronounced 'ah', and a kamatz katan is pronounced 'ah', while in Ashkenazic pronunciation,
    they are pronounced.\r\n\r\nIf you reread the post, that's what I wrote.\r\n\r\nIt's
    based upon what I was told by another in an earlier post, as I do not pronounce
    words with a Sephardic pronunciation.\r\n\r\nTherefore, I was told by the Revach
    Kollel in Israel, that those who pray with a Sephardic pronunciation must intend,
    have \u05DB\u05D5\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4, for a kamatz katan when in occurs in prayer
    to communicate accurately.\r\n\r\nTrue, we fulfill our responsibilities even if
    we neglect the correct pronunciation or even intention, for G-d sees into our
    hearts, as we chant in the Machzor. But if we are learned intelligent people,
    we should not act like simple folks."
  created: '2010-10-21 10:12:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> ... every kid learns it in school!!!!\r\n\r\nCome on. \r\n\r\nMost people
    who speak Hebrew anywhere know very little Hebrew grammar. \r\n\r\nThe average
    Israeli knows what is a kamatz katan and where it appears???\r\n\r\nBtw, David
    is selling the Brooklyn Bridge. It's a great investment for KP!"
  created: '2010-10-21 10:17:19'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "\"Before you went to KP, you thought the same.\"\r\n\r\nno I didn't.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I
    said that in Sephardic pronunciation both a kamatz gadol is pronounced 'ah', and
    a kamatz katan is pronounced 'ah', while in Ashkenazic pronunciation, they are
    pronounced.\r\n If you reread the post, that's what I wrote.\r\n It's based upon
    what I was told by another in an earlier post, as I do not pronounce words with
    a Sephardic pronunciation.\r\n Therefore, I was told by the Revach Kollel in Israel,
    that those who pray with a Sephardic pronunciation must intend, have \u05DB\u05D5\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4,
    for a kamatz katan when in occurs in prayer to communicate accurately.\"\r\n\r\nthis
    is absolutely wrong. Therefore either the Kollel is wrong or you misunderstood.
    Since you seem to misunderstand everything, let's assume you are wrong.\r\n\r\n\"The
    average Israeli knows what is a kamatz katan and where it appears???\"\r\n\r\nyes
    the average Israeli will pronounce the kamatz katan correctly without realising
    it. I have yet to meet an Israeli that pronounced chochma as chachma or kol as
    kal. Again you are talking about something you just don't understand. Further,
    whether they remember the rules of grammar or not, they still learn it. It's part
    of the curriculum!\r\n\r\n\"Btw, David is selling the Brooklyn Bridge. It's a
    great investment for KP!\"\r\n\r\nthere you go again, insulting the company!!!!"
  created: '2010-10-21 10:41:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\r\n\r\nsee: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamatz\r\n\r\nQamatz
    Qatan and Hataf Qamatz\r\n\r\n[edit]Qamatz Qatan\r\nA Qamatz Qatan (Hebrew: \u05E7\u05B8\u05DE\u05B7\u05E5
    \u05E7\u05B8\u05D8\u05B8\u05DF\u200E, \"Small Qamatz\"), is a qamatz in a closed
    syllable. A closed syllable is one which ends in a consonant with shwa nakh (zero
    vowel) or in a consonant with dagesh khazak (essentially two identical consonants,
    the first of which has shwa nakh). For example, it is used in the word \u05EA\u05B8\u05BC\u05DB\u05B0\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA
    (program, pronounced [\u02C8to\u03C7nit]). It is identical in appearance to the
    standard qamatz, but is pronounced as [o], rather than [a]. According to the standard
    Hebrew spelling rules as published by The Academy of the Hebrew Language, words
    which have a qamatz qatan in their base form must be written without a waw, thus
    the standard vowel-less spelling of \u05EA\u05B8\u05BC\u05DB\u05B0\u05E0\u05B4\u05D9\u05EA
    is \u05EA\u05DB\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA, although in practice many Hebrew speakers do
    add a waw and spell it \u05EA\u05D5\u05DB\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA. This nonstandard
    spelling is common in newspapers and is even used in several dictionaries, for
    example Rav Milim. Words, which in their base form have a holam that changes to
    qamatz qatan in declination, retain the waw in vowel-less spelling: the noun \u05D7\u05B9\u05E4\u05B6\u05E9\u05C1
    (freedom, pronounced [\u02C8\u0127ofe\u0283]) is spelled \u05D7\u05D5\u05E4\u05E9
    in vowel-less texts; the adjective \u05D7\u05B8\u05E4\u05B0\u05E9\u05B4\u05C1\u05D9
    (free, pronounced [\u0127of\u02C8\u0283i]) is spelled \u05D7\u05D5\u05E4\u05E9\u05D9
    in vowel-less text, despite the use of qamatz qatan, both according to the standard
    spelling and in common practice.\r\nSome books print the qamatz qatan differently,
    although it is not consistent. For example, in siddur Rinat Yisrael the vertical
    line of qamatz qatan is longer. In a book of Psalms used by some Breslov hassidim
    the qamatz qatan is bolder. In the popular niqqud textbook Niqqud halakha le-maase
    by Nisan Netser, the qamatz qatan is printed as an encircled qamatz for didactic
    purposes.\r\nUnicode defines the code point U+05C7 QAMATS QATAN, although the
    appearance of the character in the code chart is identical to that of U+05B8 QAMATS
    and its usage is not required.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, you are correct. It's the opposite
    of what I said. \r\n\r\nSephardic pronunciation distinguishes, but Ashkenazic
    doesn't. Hence, many prayerbooks of people who pronounce words Ashkenazic do not
    identify the kamatz katan but identify the shva-na.\r\n\r\nBecause an Israeli
    has said chochma and not chachma does not mean that he or she knows what is a
    kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nRaphael, when the sale of the Brooklyn Bridge is mentioned,
    it's a joke. JOKE. 4 letter word. Maybe, living among all those suicide bombers
    have caused you to forget how to laugh.\r\n\r\nAs you see from the above admittance,
    I am just a ignoramus.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:06:32'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "GOHEBREW, Take a break.\r\ngo do your research. when you know what you are
    talking about share it with us. \r\nfor now, you are totaly on the wrong path
    with absolutly no idea what you are talking about.\r\ngive a call to shmuel riarchi,
    a very nice person who knows his stuff, he produced the Tanach SIMANIM.\r\n\r\nTry
    larning the hierarchy of the grammer.\r\nand again, don't truble your self with
    the shitot for now.\r\nstart with the basics.\r\n2 shevahin the first is nach
    second is na\r\n2 of the same letter like haflala, or rivevom the sheva is na\r\na
    sheva under a letter with dagesh\r\n2 shevaim at the end of the word are both
    nach\r\na sheva after a tenua gedola is a sheva na\r\na sheva at a begining of
    a word is a sheva na\r\na sheva after a vav with a dagesh (melupum) if this vav
    is the first letter then she following sheva is nach, if the melupup is in the
    nittle of the word the sheva is na.\r\na sheva before a kaffinal with a qamats
    is in most cases a sheva na\r\n\r\nand so on and so on.\r\nmost are this rules
    are not absolute and depends on other facts.\r\nyou cannot avoid working with
    out kamats katan becaus as a qamats is a Tenua Gedola\r\nQamats katan is a tenua
    ketana.\r\nso if the sheva is after the qamats gadol it is a sheva na\r\nbut if
    it is after a qamats qatan the it is a sheva nach\r\nand the rules for qamats
    qatan somthing you are going to have to deal with and it's not simple.\r\nlets
    take a word based on PAALA wich means X qamats X sheva X qamats HE (X means any
    letter) how do you know if its a POAL or SHEM TOAR or ETSEM ????\r\nSp if you
    hav a Mapik in the last He so I know that the first qamats is qatan and the following
    sehva is nach, but without Mapik He????\r\n\r\nI am just introducing you to some
    problems that you will encounter.\r\n\r\nso stop bobling to me about P.Dotan and
    the different SHITOT\r\n\r\nThrough yor self in the cold water and start developing
    your project.\r\nif not, in 2 years from know you will open this sames topic again,
    and start hacking us a chainik in kop arain\r\n\r\n\r\nso as you see even building
    a basic project will take some time.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:21:20'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "so i said that not allways this rules work\r\nlets take one of the rules\r\nNormaly
    if i hav a sheva after a tenua ketana it is a sheva nach\r\nbut... if the tenua
    ketana has a meteg and the letter after the sheva has no dagesh and the letter
    is one of the beged kefet the that sheva will be Na and not Nach\r\n\r\nand here
    is another \r\nsey i have a word like \u05D4\u05E8\u05E9\u05E2\u05D9\u05DD how
    do i know that the qamats is gadol and the sheva is na?\r\nso you makes an asomtion
    that if the first letter in the word is a HE following by a word that cant have
    a dagesh like Alef,Het,Resh,Ayin So I assume that this HE should realy be with
    PATAH but because that the following letter is one of thos who don't get dagesh
    the qamats of the he is TASHLUM DAGESH and there for it's not a qamats that can
    ever be a katan so this qamats under HE HAYDIA is gadol and the following sheva
    is Na\r\n\r\nGohebrew: there is so much to know befor you even start working on
    a project like this.\r\nand its not enough to know the rules, you must understand
    them in depth.\r\n\r\nFrom all my writing you understand why you can't insert
    automaticly Metegs, and why you cant decide if the sheva is na or nach with out
    having the project knowing what is a dagesh kal or chazaq and with out knowing
    if the qamats is qatan or gadol.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:45:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> ... Through yor self in the cold water ...\r\n\r\nI go to a mikveh each
    day. It's kinda cold at the bottom.\r\n\r\nYes, a project takes a long time. I
    started a year ago, even though most everyone said at first, impossible, then
    after a year, they said, but typograph did it already.\r\n\r\nMy approach and
    purpose differs from you. My project has another 5 years to go at least, as by
    me it's a low priority at this time. \r\n\r\nAt this point I must learn well some
    books of Hebrew grammar in my spare time. Then, study well the structure of Ralph
    Hancock & John Hudson's furtive patach replacement scheme, and repeat it (abeit
    much more complex).\r\n\r\nI admit I have all the research to do Minchat Shai's
    shittah, system, but I want to do Rabbi Z. Henna's shittah together. I do not
    plan to do Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur's shittah, on account of what Prof. A. Dotan told
    me.\r\n\r\nThings are not as you blabber, Eli."
  created: '2010-10-21 11:47:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Teamim can help you alot in deciding your stuff, with out teamim you will
    hav some more dificulties.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:48:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What shittah did you follow for the shvah-na?\r\n\r\nFrom your words, you
    didn't follow any one."
  created: '2010-10-21 11:49:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli, I noticed in Shai L'Morah books (which follows the Minchat Shai), a
    shvah na never ever appears in the place of a taam elion.\r\n\r\nTo me that means
    that the taamim are connected to Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nHas anyone written anything
    on this subject? David, do you know?"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:52:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Are the taggim related to the taamim?
  created: '2010-10-21 11:53:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Taamim are musical notes.\r\n\r\nDo the chanting sounds relate to the seeming
    adornments (taggim) in the Sefer Torah scroll.\r\n\r\nJohn H., what do you think?\r\n\r\nDo
    we know the sounds associated with chanting (leining the taamim of) the (Nach)
    Prophets and the Writings, like the Psalms?"
  created: '2010-10-21 11:58:47'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "\"Things are not as you blabber, Eli.\"\r\n\r\nSo if I am blabbering, so
    what is the truth???\r\n\r\nin my last three posts i talked about actual isues
    regarding this topic in detail.\r\nand you call it blabber, I would get insulted
    if it wasn't you saying it."
  created: '2010-10-21 11:59:09'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "\"Qamatz Qatan and Hataf Qamatz\r\n\r\n[edit]Qamatz Qatan\r\n A Qamatz Qatan
    (Hebrew: \u05E7\u05B8\u05DE\u05B7\u05E5 \u05E7\u05B8\u05D8\u05B8\u05DF\u200E,
    \"Small Qamatz\"), is a qamatz in a closed syllable. A closed syllable is one
    which ends in a consonant with shwa nakh (zero vowel) or in a consonant with dagesh
    khazak (essentially two identical consonants, the first of which has shwa nakh).
    \"\r\n\r\nthe Hataf Qamatz and the Qamatz Qatan (fun spelling on wikipedia) are
    indeed pronounced the same! Clearly gohebrew doesn't know the difference between
    a chataf kamatz, a kamatz gadol and a kamatz katan. The chataf kamatz has a shva
    next to the kamatz. IT'S NOT THE SAME NIKUD AS A KAMATZ. It's a completely different
    vowel!\r\n\r\nAnd you want to teach kids grammar! Oy vey! "
  created: '2010-10-21 12:07:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>> From all my writing you understand why you can't insert automaticly
    Metegs, and why you cant decide if the sheva is na or nach with out having the
    project knowing what is a dagesh kal or chazaq and with out knowing if the qamats
    is qatan or gadol.\r\n\r\nI think from this it is clear that you do not grasp
    my very simple approach.\r\n\r\nI am perusing the entire Tanach, Siddur, Chapters
    of Our Fathers, Zmirot etc. (anything we have with shva-nas). I am identifying
    patterns, strings of Unicode data. Then, I am compiling lists of Glyph Groups.\r\n\r\nIf
    things you suggest help, and some very likely will; some are superfluous but you
    mean well.\r\n\r\nRegarding blabber, I don't refer to intelligent words. I refer
    to stuyot."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:09:07'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Teamim are much more than just musical notes.\r\nteamim are devided into
    4 types and they have actual functionality.\r\nTaam MAAMID is not Taam MOLICH
    ect'\r\n\r\nI have no intention of teaching you grammer or teamim over the forum.\r\nBut
    i can tell you this, Stop talking so much before you are clear on what you are
    saying!!!\r\n\r\nI have nothing further to say in this thread, because it does'nt
    seem that i am getting through to any one here. aspecially not to you, you know
    it all. You are now the number 1 expert on the subject after talking with P.Dotan.\r\n\r\nSo
    fair well, hope so ear from you in another 5 years."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:12:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>> ... And you want to teach kids grammar! \r\n\r\nI never
    claimed to be a teacher. Nor am I a teacher's son.\r\n\r\nI simply want to create
    an automatic shvah-na like John Hudson's automatic furtive patach.\r\n\r\nIn this
    way, a teacher can shoe text side by same, the very same appearance, except one
    has text without shavah-nas, and the other has shavah-nas. Then, the teacher explains
    why.\r\n\r\nLater, I'll add kamatz katans, etc. automatically.\r\n\r\nHow many
    different words in Tanach, Siddur, Chapters of Our Fathers, Zmirot etc. have a
    kamatz katan: 25? Not 25 kols, but different words."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:16:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Taam MAAMID is not Taam MOLICH \r\n\r\nIsn't this just two kinds of sounds?"
  created: '2010-10-21 12:17:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> you know it all. \r\n\r\nI never said this nor do I seek to make this
    impression.\r\n\r\nAvot says habayshan lo yilmad - if you are shy to ask, you
    don't learn (new things)\r\n\r\nTo know more, you have to ask...talk...even blabber\r\n\r\nIf
    you prefer to not come here because you feel that your views are not heeded, that
    is your choice. I think that it borders on self-righteousness, because we gain
    from your wisdom."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:23:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> You are now the number 1 expert on the subject after talking with P.Dotan.\r\n\r\nI
    never said that. Please don't put words in my mouth. My tongue can't take it.\r\n\r\nProf.
    Dotan is a world-class expert. At half his age, Rabbi Rabin knows twice as much.\r\n\r\nI
    wash dishes."
  created: '2010-10-21 12:26:43'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: there is a huge difference between the patach ganuv and shva na!
  created: '2010-10-21 12:34:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nI think I understand what you did in your Volt font.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    you replace all shvahs with a Sephardic kind of boldened shvah-na.\r\n\r\nThen,
    through some clever programming based on rules of Hebrew grammar, you sorted out
    certain coverted shvah-nas back to plain shvahs (shvah-nachs).\r\n\r\nYou tried
    to the same with metegs and ran into dead pan alley.\r\n\r\nSo, you told me to
    avoid metegs.\r\n\r\nMy approach is very simple. I merely replace strings with
    strings, like the furtive patach, but in larger scale.\r\n\r\nProf. Dotan and
    R. Rabin said: \"Go for it.\" If I succeed, then Israel Chomsky will write a great
    book, entitled: \"Shvah-na Strings\". :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 12:52:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "R.,\r\n\r\nI think you are missing the point, even though I spelled it out:\r\n\r\n>>
    I am perusing the entire Tanach, Siddur, Chapters of Our Fathers, Zmirot etc.
    (anything we have with shva-nas). I am identifying patterns, strings of Unicode
    data. Then, I am compiling lists of Glyph Groups.\r\n\r\nI merely seek to replace
    strings, based on patterns I have found in the entire Tanach, Siddur, Chapters
    of Our Fathers, Zmirot etc.\r\n\r\nI cseek grammar just to find the patterns better,
    and to reject certain patterns.\r\n\r\nGet it?"
  created: '2010-10-21 12:53:09'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Just some things about hatafim\r\nthe hatafim get devided by 2\r\nhataf patah,
    hataf segol is one set\r\nhataf qamats has its own issues.\r\n\r\na hataf is a
    sheva attached to a qamats, segol or patah\r\nin general hatafim (the hataf patah
    and hataf segol) are use under otiot alef,het,ayin,resh.\r\nin general this sheva
    is a sheva na so a letter with a sheva followd by a letter with a hataf will normaly
    be a sheva nach.\r\n\r\nhataf qamats is allways a qamats qatan\r\nin some cases
    the hataf X will be used also under other letters like \r\n\u05DE\u05E8\u05D3\u05DB\u05D9,
    although in general names in tanach might not absolutly follow the grammer.\r\nthen
    you have the arameic words that have to be dealed with in a slight different maner.\r\n\r\n\r\nGohebrew:
    I am not self righteous, but talking to walls is fustraiting.\r\nI thing rephael
    will agree with me on that.\r\n\r\nlisten, ask a question and I'll try to ansawr,
    arguing with you about topics that you hav no idea what you are talking about
    is a totaly weist of time.\r\nso why am i writing????\r\nbecause maybe there is
    some one out there that might learn somthing from this discotion.\r\n\r\nbut you
    gohebrew have your own crusade that interests no one.\r\nyour threads are not
    typography nor grammer but gohebrews biography.\r\nSo why not write a book or
    make a film about your own biography, why Typophile???\r\nThe reason i am talking
    so harsh is because you cross red lines in your manner of speach.\r\n\r\nmost
    people here are gentle gentleman, I have no patience for Narishkeit.\r\nyou are
    annoying and irritating people here wich causes the not to write\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 12:56:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Paul Simon (another Jew-boy) sang \"I am a rock\".\r\nSo, \"I am a wall\".\r\n\r\nThe
    Zohar says a wall is just a pile of rocks."
  created: '2010-10-21 13:00:59'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: ya, and talking to a pile of rocks is also not all that fun :)
  created: '2010-10-21 13:11:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> you are annoying and irritating people here wich causes the not to write\r\n\r\nIn
    Chabad Chassidism, self-nullification is the name of game. When a person can't
    stand the presence of another, then this lack of self-nullification is just an
    expression of arrogance. My presence fills all the space. So, there is no room
    for him. (Hehaltzu)"
  created: '2010-10-21 14:12:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from the Talmud, Seder Nezikim, Chapters of Our Fathers, 1:1-2\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb
    Gra Samp v1_3673.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-21 14:14:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In this sample we see the two very different views for the shvah-na of the
    viewpoint of the Minchat Shai on the left, and that of Rabbi Zalman Henna on the
    right.\r\n\r\nIn the first mishna chapter alone there are only two words in common
    that have a shvah-na.\r\n\r\nMinchat Shai has only those two words, while Rabbi
    Zalman Henna six more words for a total of eight words.\r\n\r\nLook at the arrows.
    They place the nikkud differently. This affects the meaning of the sentence about
    Moses' transmission of the Torah to his successor, Joshua, according to the Minchat
    Shai. Or is the meaning like Rabbi Zalman Henna: Moses turned [the leadership
    over] to Joshua. Hence, the mem is not part of the shoresh, 3 root letters; rather,
    the hei is part of the 3 root letters. The word does not have a dagesh, which
    indicates an indirect pronoun.\r\n\r\nThis difference reveals Prof. Dotan's immense
    genius, for he alluded to everything by saying: \"It is all in the nikkud\".\r\n\r\nCuriously,
    they both menaked, place the nikkud, on the same word in plural, but without a
    dagesh, which indicates not an indirect pronoun.\r\n\r\nPlease explain, Eli."
  created: '2010-10-21 14:35:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli, Lot's wife turned into something like that.\r\n\r\nI am not Lot's wife.
    I don't look back."
  created: '2010-10-21 14:37:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Perhaps, R. Henna had a dagesh there, but in printed versions it fell out.\r\n\r\nIf
    so, why is there no dagesh in the similar word, mas-ru-ha. It's with a kamatz
    and no dagesh.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nBtw, John, does Arabic and other semetic languages
    have a complex nikkud system like this or even a simple one?\r\n\r\nCould Hebrew
    have a divine origin?"
  created: '2010-10-21 15:30:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Could Hebrew have a divine origin?\r\n\r\nMaybe the letters but definitely
    not the nikud :) \r\n\r\nThere is no one standard text of Avot, and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mishnah|the
    medieval nikud for Avot vary and are problematic]], so just forget about learning
    anything definitive about nikud from a printed edition.  "
  created: '2010-10-21 16:08:12'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n> In this sample we see the two very different views for the
    shvah-na of the\r\n>  viewpoint of the Minchat Shai on the left, and that of Rabbi
    Zalman Henna on\r\n>  the right.\r\n\r\n\r\nWe said that before....\r\n\r\nBased
    on the Tiberian tradition the sheva after vav + shuruk (shuruk = malfum, \u05DE\u05D0\u05DC\u05E4\u05D5\u05DD
    by Rabbi Zalman Henau)   was pronounced as sheva nach. See for example Zur Masoretischen
    Grammatik.\r\n\r\nBased on Rabbi Henau the shuruk is long and that is why the
    sheva is na. But the shuruk is there not because the vowel is long, but because
    of the vav (In order to understand better the subject we need to talk about the
    pre-ashkenazi pronunciation).\r\n\r\nHowever, Rabbi Shabtai Sofer (ashkenazi tradition)
    didn't see the sheva as na but nach!\r\n\r\n\r\nThe root doesn't change! The \"dagesh\"(
    letter he) is mapiq!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 18:34:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mappiq\r\n\r\nMappiq\r\nFrom Wikipedia,
    the free encyclopedia\r\n\r\nMappiq\r\n\u05BC\r\nIPA\th\r\nTransliteration\th\r\nSame
    appearance\tdagesh, shuruk\r\n\r\nExample\r\n\u05D2\u05B9\u05BC\u05D1\u05B7\u05D4\u05BC\r\n\r\nThe
    word for height in Hebrew, govah. The centre dot in the leftmost letter is a mappiq.\r\n\r\nOther
    Niqqud\r\nShva \xB7 Hiriq \xB7 Zeire \xB7 Segol \xB7 Patach \xB7 Kamatz \xB7 Holam
    \xB7 Dagesh \xB7 Mappiq \xB7 Shuruk \xB7 Kubutz \xB7 Rafe \xB7 Sin/Shin Dot\r\n\r\nThe
    mappiq (Hebrew: \u05DE\u05E4\u05D9\u05E7\u200E, also mapiq, mapik, mappik, lit.
    \"causing to go out\") is a diacritic used in the Hebrew alphabet. It is part
    of the Masoretes' system of niqqud (vowel points), and was added to Hebrew orthography
    at the same time. It takes the form of a dot in the middle of a letter (usually
    he). An identical point with a different phonetic function (marking different
    consonants) is called a dagesh.\r\n\r\nThe mappiq is used to mark the letter he
    (and rarely aleph), indicating that it is to be pronounced as a consonant, although
    in a position where the letter usually indicates a vowel.\r\n\r\nBefore the vowel
    points were invented, some consonants were used to indicate vowel sounds. These
    consonants are called matres lectionis. The letter he (transliterated H) at the
    end of a word (Hebrew is written from right to left) can indicate the vowel sound
    a or e. When it does, it is not acting as a consonant, and therefore in pure phonetic
    logic the Biblical name Zechariah (among others) should be spelled \"Zekharya\"
    without the final \"h\". However, silent final h being also a feature of English,
    it is usually retained in Hebrew transliterations to distinguish final he from
    final aleph.\r\n\r\nThe divine name Yah has a mappiq (a dot inside the last letter),
    so the last letter shall not be read as a vowel a, but as the consonant H - and
    therefore Yah (and not Ya).\r\nThe most common occurrence of mappiq is in the
    suffix \"-ah\", meaning \"her\".\r\n\r\nA he with mappiq is meant to be pronounced
    as a full consonant \"h\", and in Mizrahi and Yemenite Hebrew it is pronounced
    more strongly than a normal he, sometimes with a slight following shwa sound (this
    rule is also followed by Dutch Sephardim). In modern Hebrew, however, it is normally
    silent.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 18:53:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from: http://www.aishdas.org/toratemet/en_pamphlet9.html\r\n\r\n... R' Shlomo
    Yedidiah Nortzi in his Minchat Shai\r\n\r\n\r\n=================================================\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nfrom:
    http://www.jewishgen.org/yizkor/Piotrkow/pit073.html\r\n\r\n\r\nRabbi Yehuda Meir
    Shapira was born in March 1887. His father was Rabbi Yaakov Shimshon of Schatz
    (Bukovina), son of Rabbi Yehuda Meir, son of Rabbi Dov of Tlost, son of Rabbi
    Yehuda Meir of Shpitovka, son of the famous tzaddik and friend of Besht (the founder
    of Chassidism), Rabbi Pinchus of Kuritz, a descendant of Rabbi Natan Shapira,
    author of Megalah Amukot of Cracow. In his youth, he caused a stir in the world
    of the Torah with his wisdom and great knowledge. This is confirmed by the great
    sage, Rabbi Shalom Mordechai Svedron of Berzan, in the ordination certificate
    he issued for the Rabbi Meir, in which he writes, \u201CI saw a young man named
    Meir and I offered the blessing Yotzer Ha'meorot (creator of the lights).\u201D\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Shapira had studied with his maternal grandfather, Rabbi Shmuel Yitzhak Schor
    of Munstritz, author of Minchat Shai, mastering all aspects of Torah and knowledge;
    soon he became known as a great scholar. A wealthy Galician Jew named Rabbi Yaakov
    David Breitman of Tarnopol gave him his daughter's hand in marriage.\r\n\r\n\r\nRabbi
    Shmuel Yitzhak Schor of Munstritz, author of Minchat Shai\r\n------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------"
  created: '2010-10-21 19:04:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nSo, 'uh-m-sarah' can mean \"and transmitted it\" according
    to both R. Zalman Henna, and according to the Minchat Shai.\r\n\r\nSo, why does
    R. Zalman Henna add a shvah-na by the mem, and according to the Minchat Shai there
    .is no shvah-nah?"
  created: '2010-10-21 19:11:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nDo you have the original text? a scan? the printed text --
    year? publisher/s?\r\n\r\n> So, why does R. Zalman Henna add a shvah-na by the
    mem....\r\n\r\n\r\nI told you why:  based on Rabbi Henau  the shuruk is a long
    vowel! and that is why the sheva is na. \r\n\r\nBut others don't think the same.
    \r\n\r\nBTW, from  his book: \"There is no difference in reading between Sheva
    Na and Sheva Nach in the matter of the speed and quickness of reading\".\r\n\r\nBut
    again that was his opinion."
  created: '2010-10-21 19:23:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI wasn't referring to the historical graphic form of the nikkud
    in my question about Arabic and other semetic languages (based on our earlier
    blog discussion by Hebrew's divine origins).\r\n\r\nRather, I was referring to
    nikkud's complex oral tradition, reflecting Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nAvot are Mishnaic
    teachings from before the medieval period, as you know. They did not exist in
    a vacuum. They were pronounced. This pronunciation was the 'nikkud' system that
    later was transcribed into a graphic system, to which you refer.\r\n\r\nR' Zalman
    Henna and the Minchat Shai differ upon how it was pronounced.\r\n\r\n\r\nfrom:
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middle_Ages\r\n\r\nMiddle Ages\r\nFrom Wikipedia,
    the free encyclopedia\r\n\r\nNinth-century depiction of Charlemagne with popes
    Gelasius I and Gregory the Great\r\nThe Middle Ages (adjectival form: medieval
    or medi\xE6val) was a period of European history from the 5th century to the 15th
    century. The period followed the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476, and
    preceded the Early Modern Era. It is the middle period in a three-period division
    of history: Classical, Medieval, and Modern. The term \"Middle Ages\" (medium
    aevum) was coined in the 15th century and reflects the view that this period was
    a deviation from the path of classical learning, a path supposedly reconnected
    by Renaissance scholarship.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nfrom: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pirkei_Avot\r\n\r\nPirkei
    Avot\r\nFrom Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\r\nRabbinical Eras\r\nChazal\r\nZugot\r\nTannaim\r\nAmoraim\r\nSavoraim\r\nGeonim\r\nRishonim\r\nAcharonim\r\n\r\nPirkei
    Avot (Hebrew: \u05E4\u05E8\u05E7\u05D9 \u05D0\u05D1\u05D5\u05EA Pirqe Avoth in
    Classical and Talmudic Hebrew\u200E), which translates to English as Verses of
    the Fathers is a compilation of the ethical teachings and maxims of the Rabbis
    of the Mishnaic period. Because of its contents, it is also called Ethics of the
    Fathers. The teachings of Pirkei Avot appear in the Mishnaic tractate of Avot,
    the second-to-last tractate in the order of Nezikin in the Talmud. Pirkei Avot
    is unique in that it is the only tractate of the Talmud dealing solely with ethical
    and moral principles; there is little or no halacha found in Pirkei Avot, except
    for the Ein Mishpat Ner Mitzvah.\r\n\r\n...\r\n\r\nStructure of the work\r\n\r\nThe
    tractate consists of six chapters. It begins with an order of transmission of
    the Oral Tradition; Moses receives the Torah at Mount Sinai and then transmits
    it through various generations (including Joshua, the Elders, and the Neviim,
    but notably not the Kohanim), whence it finally arrives at the Great Assembly,
    i.e., the Rabbis (Avot 1:1). It contains sayings attributed to sages from Simon
    the Just (200 B.C.E.) to shortly after Judah haNasi (200 C.E.), redactor of the
    Mishnah. These aphorisms concern proper ethical and social conduct, as well as
    the importance of Torah study.\r\n\r\nThe first two chapters proceed in a general
    chronological order, with the second focusing on the students of Yochanan Ben
    Zakkai. Chapters Three and Four contain various attributed sayings in no clear
    order. Chapter Five departs from the organization and content of the preceding
    four in that it consists mostly of anonymous sayings structured around numerical
    lists, several of which have no direct connection with ethics. The last four paragraphs
    of this chapter return to the format of moral aphorisms attributed to specific
    rabbis.\r\n\r\nIn liturgical use, and in most printed editions of Avoth, a sixth
    chapter, Kinyan Torah (\"Acquisition of Torah\") is added; this is in fact the
    eighth (in the Vilna edition) chapter of tractate Kallah, one of the minor tractates.
    It is added because its content and style are somewhat similar to that of the
    original tractate Avoth (although it focuses on Torah study more than ethics),
    and to allow for one chapter to be recited on each Shabbat of the Omer period,
    this chapter being seen well-suited to Shabbat Shavuot, when the giving of the
    Torah is celebrated. (See below.)\r\n\r\n..."
  created: '2010-10-21 19:27:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Thank you, David.
  created: '2010-10-21 19:29:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nIn reviewing different printings of the prayerbook by Kehot
    USA (Chabad), I see that the dagesh in the hei of uh-m-sarah' in Avot 1:1 simply
    fell out in this print (small and unclear), but in most other editions of Kehot
    USA, the dagesh does appear.\r\n\r\nSoon, all printers' plates will be PDFs and
    this will never occur."
  created: '2010-10-21 19:35:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDo you know?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb
    Gra Samp 2 v3_3519.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-22 16:17:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDo you know?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb
    Gra Samp 2 v4_4191.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-22 16:33:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I am trying to determine the difference between these two views, in order
    to create the appropriate glyph groups in Volt.\r\n\r\nggs are glyph groups.\r\n\r\nI
    believe I will need 3 or 4 ggs:\r\na. one common to everyone\r\nb. one for R.
    ZH\r\nc. one for the MS\r\nd. [if I make R'EB]\r\n\r\nThe each gg is sub-dived
    into small ggs based on nikkud types, with all their contextual replacements.\r\n\r\nThose
    ggs is divided into 4 ggs:\r\na. Bible - Ta\r\nb. Bible - Nach\r\nc. Mishnaic
    and like\r\nd. Prayerbook and like\r\n\r\nI think the string is:\r\nletter, nikkud,
    letter, shva.\r\n\r\nThe string might be longer. The letters might be defined.\r\nThere
    may be a dagesh or mapik.\r\nThere may be wildcards to accomamate taamim etc.\r\n\r\nCan
    wildcards also apply to nothing?\r\n\r\nThen, is GPOS, a single look-up is used,
    with the different ggs.\r\nTwo font 'programs' s are made in Volt, based on a
    single font outline.\r\nI would make it at first monospaced a monospaced font
    to give away for free.\r\nI think a version of Miriam is suitable.\r\n\r\nIf it
    is this simple, perhaps this year it can be done.\r\n\r\nEli, does this system
    make sense?\r\nIf yes, the automatic shvah-na can be made rather quickly.\r\nMy
    research has been completed.\r\n\r\nR' Zalman Henna is complete, without the Tanach.
    But this new font would add the shvah-nas as needed.\r\nMinchas Shai is complete,
    without the siddur. But this new font would add the shvah-nas as needed.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-22 17:22:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI think Eli did a grammar-based automatic shvah-na addition,
    and not a pure contextual replacement.\r\n\r\nHe's alluding to that in each excellent
    post, albeit with some go hebrew-crashing.  :)\r\n\r\nps I learned \u05D4\u05D7\u05DC\u05E6\u05D5,
    so I can endure, from the Reshab."
  created: '2010-10-22 17:27:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I think Eli did a grammar-based automatic shvah-na addition, and not a pure
    contextual replacement.\r\n\r\nThat's what I understand\u2014there are look-ups
    of roots involved. I suspect that the root look-up is necessary, as there are
    ambiguities that you can't resolve from context alone, or at least not without
    look-ups that amount to the same thing. That's why Eli (and I) don't see the point
    of your \"context only\" approach, when Eli has already succeeded in doing this.
    And his system is flexible enough to change for different systems, as I understand
    him saying. "
  created: '2010-10-22 17:49:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just came across [[http://curiousjew.blogspot.com/2009/08/biblical-hebrew-class-1.html|this
    interesting discussion of nikud.]] This is notes of a student in a class on Hebrew
    linguistics at Yeshiva U. Note that he says that even medieval authorities agree
    that the nikud are not mi-sinai\u2014do not have any sacred authority. I needn't
    have put a smiley above when I wrote that!\r\n\r\nThe basics of the shva na are
    simple, but beyond that not only get incredibly complex, but it seems to me without
    justification for the decisions. These complex systems derive from Rabbi Kimhi
    in the 13th century\u2014long after the Tiberian system was fixed, a system that
    doesn't record the sheva na. Thus there is not much basis for thinking they actually
    reflect ancient spoken Hebrew. In the link, it also explains that even in ancient
    times there were competing systems of nikud in Bablyonia and in Tiberias. It may
    be that choosing the Tiberian one was well justified, but it brings out the problematic
    character of the complex rules. That seems to me to justify following the current
    way Hebrew is pronounced by native Israelis, as Chomsky says. \r\n\r\nI recognize
    that this won't affect those who regard one or another of these traditions as
    authentic. I'm just saying from a liberal Jewish point of view\u2014or dispassionate
    scholarly one\u2014it doesn't make much sense to enshrine these as proper.   \r\n\r\nEli
    Fried, who seems to know more about this than anybody, could perhaps tell us at
    what point the \"rules\" about the shva na get tenuous. \r\n\r\nBy the way, I
    write shva na, not \"sheva\" na, because in spoken Hebrew the word contains a
    shva nach, not a shva na, contrary to the artificial \"rules\", but consistent
    with the real rules, according to Chomsky. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-22 17:53:17'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDo you know?\r\n\r\n\r\nEli, why?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb
    Gra Samp 3 v1_6492.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-22 18:07:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Thus there is not much basis for thinking they actually reflect
    ancient spoken Hebrew.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed not. Some of the differences between
    ancient pronunciation and the later pronunciation applied to the Bible text by
    the Masoretes are evident from the text itself. The best known example is the
    change in pronunciation of <em>yeru\u0161\u0101l\u0113m</em> to <em>yeru\u0161\u0101layim,</em>
    which required the Masoretes to add hiriq between the lamed and the final mem
    in order to approximate the new pronunciation as <em>yeru\u0161\u0101laim,</em>
    while preserving the consonant structure of the ancient manuscripts. The final
    four characters of this word are correctly encoded in the order lamed + patah
    + hiriq + final mem, and the hiriq is conventionally positioned under the right
    side of the final mem, following the Masoretic codices.\r\n\r\n[This is also a
    good example of the unfortunate collision of the Biblical text with Unicode's
    canonical combining class assignments for Hebrew marks, which were based on modern
    practice. If Unicode normalisation is applied to this word, the order of the patah
    and hiriq is reversed.]"
  created: '2010-10-22 19:27:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli, please explain why?\r\n\r\nA nuhn + hirik + shin + shva + shvah-nah\r\nbut
    not\r\na yud  + hirik + siin + + dagesh + shva\r\nor \r\na yud  + hirik + shin
    + shva\r\nor \r\na yud  + hirik + siin + shva\r\n\r\n\r\nDoes that mean nuhn yes
    but yud no?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb Gra Samp 4 v1_6494.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-22 20:08:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">differences between ancient pronunciation and the later pronunciation applied
    to the Bible text by the Masoretes\r\n\r\nThat too. But I was speaking of whether
    the Rabbi Kimhi and later views on the shva na and other fine points not reflected
    in the Tiberian Nikud actually reflect the Tiberian pronunciation\u2014which is
    presumably something like Mishnaic Hebrew, a thousand years after Joshua settled
    in the land of Israel. As to how those who wrote the Torah spoke, we know there
    are variations in spelling that probably reflect changes in Hebrew language, with
    different layers from different eras. So how it all was originally pronounced\u2014God
    knows :)  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-22 20:53:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here we have the types of patterns:\r\na yud before a nuhn that make the
    subsequent shva a shvah-na\r\n\r\nand\r\n\r\na yud before a sinn, shinn, that
    make does not make the shva a shvah-na\r\n\r\n\r\nHere, lets add to our assumptions.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Heb
    Gra Samp 6 v1_4810.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-22 21:26:46'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "guys, Lets make some order here.\r\nOn the net there are plenty og forums
    discosing hebrew grammer.\r\ntypophile is not one of them.\r\ntypophile is a place
    to talk about font design, font development and open type solutions.\r\n\r\nWho
    ever dealt with volt for real complex functions learns real fast that volt is
    a powerfull tool but not without it's limits.\r\nthere is just so much you can
    do with Volt.\r\nmore so, Volt has a limit of the amount of lookups and context
    that when exceeded it simply won't compile. \r\nfurthur more, the fact that some
    function works correctly in the volt proofing tool does not mean it will work
    in indesign.\r\ndifferent versions of indesign behave differntly\r\nin indesign
    CS4 they changed the way they deal with right2left and left2right characters.\r\n\r\nwhen
    one (in this case gohebrew) wants to develop a project that will deal with sheva
    na\\nach ect' he must first know what can be done and what cant be done. what
    is important and what's not, what should the project solve and what to leave for
    the user to decide.\r\n\r\nI am saying again and again \"forget all of the Shitot\".\r\nsome
    of the arguments are about the grammer rules other arguments are about specific
    words.\r\n\r\nacourding to some opinions there are also a PATAH GADOL, HIRIQ GADOL
    and TSERE QATAN.\r\nI ignore all that.\r\n\r\nthen you have different opinions
    what is a TENUA GEDOLA and what is a TENUA KETANA\r\nacourding to my project\r\nQamats,
    Tsere, holam are TENUOT GEDOLOT\r\nHiriq, segol, Patah, Shuruq are TENUOT KETANOT\r\nMelupum
    if its the first letter in a word its a TENUA KETANA and if in the middle of the
    word the its a TENUA GEDOLA.\r\n\r\nSome wont agree on that 100%\r\nSome say that
    a sheva after a meteg is allways a sheva na, my project does not behave that way.\r\n\r\nI
    do take into consideration a meteg when trying to decide if the qamats is qatan
    and the sheva is nach or if the qamats is gadol and the sheva is na.\r\n\r\nThere
    are differnt issues that people argue about but alot of them in VOLT terms are
    insignificant.\r\n\r\nSo not every differance of opinion should be taken into
    consideration.\r\n\r\nGohebrew, you say its all in the nikud, I disagree.\r\nAlot
    can be decided acourding to the nikud but to say that its all in the nikkud is
    incorrect.\r\nsome things are to do with the teamim which indicates some things.\r\nsome
    things are simply masoret.\r\n\r\nsome time things change if the word is BESMICHUT
    and some times where is the word in the sentence.\r\nin a lot of cases you cant
    do a sheva na\\nach without reconing if a qamats is qatan or Gadol (RAHAV)\r\nand
    the qamats qatan issue is a whol thing by it self.\r\neven if you do say that
    it is all in the nikud, you have to check some issues back and forth again and
    again until its refined, any change you make can effect the behavior somwhere
    else.\r\nso hierarchy is very important\r\n\r\nPersonaly, if i want to talk hebrew
    grammer in general, i have better places to do so.\r\nif you want to talk in VOLT
    terms, that is somthing else."
  created: '2010-10-23 19:25:51'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew\r\n\r\n\u05E9\u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05D1\u05D9\u05DA \u05D5\u05D9\u05D2\u05D3\u05DA\r\n\u05D5\u05EA\u05D2\u05DC\u05E0\u05D4
    \u05D1\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA \u05E6\u05D9\u05D5\u05DF\r\n\r\nhere are 2 samples where
    after a tnua gedola the sheva is nach and not na.\r\nthe word \u05DC\u05D9\u05DC\u05D4,
    why is the sheva nach??? or the word \u05D4\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA\u05D4.\r\n\r\nSo
    you would say that there are YOTSE MIN HAKLAL. Or yo will realize that at some
    cases the teamim make the differance\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-23 19:46:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Gohebrew, just by having printed text is not enough to studie the issue\r\nyou
    have to learn the grammer, trying to learn this by common denominators won't work.\r\n\r\nsome
    distinuish between a hiriq gadol and hiriq qatan, others say a hiriq is allways
    qatan meaning a hiriq is allways a tnua qetana.\r\n\r\nif you wish to discose
    these matters, subscribe your self on PROG\r\nwww.prog.co.il\r\n\r\nthey have
    a DIKDUKE forume there with some guys who realy know their stuff and would be
    more than happy to ansawr all of youer questions about hebrew grammer.\r\n\r\nR
    Shmuel riarchi is another jew i would sugjest you to talk with, he printed TANACH
    SIMANIM and has much to say about this particular issue.\r\n\r\nIf you realy want
    to extend, talk to some yemen medakdekim, they have their own masora.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-23 19:57:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli:\r\n\r\n>>> Gohebrew, you say its all in the nikud, I disagree.\r\n\r\nI
    did not say this.\r\n\r\nAt the end of our long conversation, he stressed that
    nikkud played a gigantic role in context-based shvah-na results. He said that
    phrase, \"Everything's in the nikkud\".\r\n\r\nI don't think that he meant 'everything'
    literally, as I showed by the shvah following the chirik. But will be ever find
    a 'shvah following the chirik' where the chirik is under the nuhn, and the shvah
    does not become a shvah-nah?"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:21:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "eli,\r\n\r\n>> typophile is a place to talk about font design, font development
    and open type solutions.\r\n\r\nI agree with you in general.\r\n\r\nTalmudic sages
    predict: \u05D4\u05D7\u05DB\u05DD \u05E8\u05D5\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E0\u05D5\u05DC\u05D3,
    a wise person sees the outcome.\r\n\r\nThis discussion is not to clarify Hebrew
    grammar, but to use OpenType via Volt with GPOS in an innovative manner, to address
    certain Hebrew grammar issues in an unconventional way, namely contextual."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:27:14'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "A hiriq is a TENUA KETANA, the following sheva should be Nach.\r\nIf you
    follow the shita that there is a hiriq qatan and hiriq gadol then after a hiriq
    gadol you would get a sheva na, but go figur it out."
  created: '2010-10-24 02:29:45'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "\"This discussion is not to clarify Hebrew grammar, but to use OpenType via
    Volt with GPOS in an innovative manner, to address certain Hebrew grammar issues
    in an unconventional way, namely contextual\"\r\n\r\nI would agree with you if
    you talked in volt terminalogy, but you are not.\r\nas i said before, researching
    the hebrew grammer, there are forums like on PROG Or TAPUZ"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:33:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\n>> A hiriq is a TENUA KETANA, the following sheva should be Nach.\r\nIf
    you follow the shita that there is a hiriq qatan and hiriq gadol then after a
    hiriq gadol you would get a sheva na, but go figur it out.\r\n\r\nSo, you are
    saying that normally, a chirik is a tunua ketana, or a chirik ketan.\r\n\r\nBut
    here under the nuhn, the chirik is a tenua gedola, or a chirik gadol. Why? Because
    the chirik gadol is under the nuhn, or at the beginning of the word, or both. "
  created: '2010-10-24 02:44:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I would agree with you if you talked in volt terminalogy, but you are
    not.\r\nas i said before, researching the hebrew grammer, there are forums like
    on PROG Or TAPUZ\r\n\r\n\r\nCan you give me the links?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:46:05'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "www.prog.co.il\r\n\r\nfor others, google it"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:48:13'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "i am not saying that normaly a hiriq is a tenua ketana, a hiriq is allways
    a tnua ketana in modern hebrew, i am just saying that there are diffirent SHITOT
    about which nikudim are tnuot ketanot and wich are gedolot and not every one agrees
    on this. \r\nto some shitot you can hav a hiriq qatan or hiriq gadol a tsere qatan
    and tsere gadol. \r\n\r\nbut again, go figure it out"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:54:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What are the differences between Hebrew grammar versus moder Hebrew?\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was a teen living in Israel, I was told that there was only a difference in
    Hebrew vocabulary. And that Eliezer Ben Yehuda made a new up-to-date lexicon,
    as we live in modern times, and need to use words for modern objects, which did
    not exist long ago.\r\n\r\nBill, you suggested that there are differences of pronunciation.
    Are you merely referring to Sephardic versus Ashkenazic?\r\n\r\nEli, you seemed
    to say that these differences are in Hebrew grammar as well."
  created: '2010-10-24 12:04:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">differences of pronunciation\r\n\r\nThere are different issues here. \r\n\r\n1.
    Traditions of different communities. As is well known, different communities,
    such as Ashkenazi, Sephardi, Yemeni, Iraqi, etc. had different pronunciations
    of Hebrew by the time of the modern settlement of Israel by Jews. Scholars have
    discussed which of these most reflects ancient pronunciation. There is an Encyclopedia
    Judaica article on this. Eg. the ayin is pronounced \"ng\", there are distinctions
    between the tav and daled with and without dagesh, etc. I don't think a single
    scholar believes that either Ashkenazi pronunciation, such as the Chassidim use,
    or modern Israeli, accurately reflect ancient pronunciation.  \r\n\r\n2. The differences
    between pronunciation by the \"rules\" of grammar vs spoken Hebrew, now and in
    the past. William Chomsky's argument in the \"Shewa\" article was that some of
    the \"rules\" deriving from Rabbi David Kimhi, and now enshrined, are in error,
    as they probably never were followed, and not today. These rules affect pronunciation,
    so that some of the supposed rules of \"holy\" and correct pronunciations in fact
    are just blunders. For example, as I understand it, the \"rule\" is that a shva
    under the first letter is always pronounced\u2014a mistake in Chomsky's view.
    Chomsky says that both Ashkenazi and Sephardic speakers in the 20th century did
    not pronounce the shva under the first letter, except in specific categories of
    letters: the \"liquid consonants\", prepositional first letters, and the conjunctive
    vav. Nor do Israelis today. So, for example, in the words k'tana and g'dola (feminine
    for small and big) there is no pronunciation of the shva. Nor is there in the
    word sh'va itself.       \r\n   "
  created: '2010-10-24 15:20:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nRe: Tenua gedola, short, nun, vav, shin.... etc. etc.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a matter of 'patterns', but a matter of knowing Hebrew grammar and how
    to add the nikkud. This has nothing to do with different points of views.\r\n\r\nThe
    word   \u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC is divided into syllables.  How many syllables?
    The same as the number of its vowels.  In this case \u05D9\u05E9/\u05E8/\u05D0\u05DC\r\nThe
    first syllable is closed and unstressed -- and will get a short vowel, hiriq.
    \r\nThe second syllable is open -- and will get a long vowel, kamats. \r\nThe
    third syllable is closed and stressed  -- and will get a long vowel, tsere. \r\nHow
    do we know if it is  kamats and not a patach, tsere and not a segol? You need
    to know and understand, among other things,  how the Vowel diagram works (e.g.
    see the IPA vowel diagram).\r\n\r\nHere is another example: \u05E0\uFFFD\u05E6\u05BC\uFFFD\u05DC\uFFFD\u05D4\r\nThis
    word has two meanings, the  same root (\u05E0.\u05E6.\u05DC) and in both cases
    the tense is past. But If it is used in the context: the girl was saved by the
    doctor... by the fireman, etc. etc. then the binyan/conjugation is Nifal. \r\nThis
    binyan is identified by a prefix n/ni.  The dagesh is hazak. Its aim is to compensate
    for the lost letter. That is why this dagesh is also known as Mashlim. \r\nSince
    the word already  has the letter nun \u05E0\u05E6\u05DC  and adding the prefix
    n/ni  will create this: \u05E0\u05B4\u05E0\u05B0\u05E6\u05B0\u05DC\uFFFD\u05D4,
    we drop one nun and add dagesh: \u05E0\uFFFD\u05E6\u05BC\uFFFD\u05DC\uFFFD\u05D4.\r\nIf
    the word is used in the context: she took the opportunity to.... then the  binyan/conjugation
    \ is Piel. This binyan is identified (again don't forget that we are talking about
    past tense!) by the hiriq (ayin hapoal, \u05E2\u05D9\"\u05DF \u05D4\u05E4\u05D5\u05E2\u05DC
    ), and dagesh hazak  (pe hapoal,  \u05E4' \u05D4\u05E4\u05D5\u05E2\u05DC ) in
    any form. That said the hiriq & the dagesh are part of the binyan! In this regard,
    one time you'll have a word that starts with the letter nun, and another time
    a different letter. \r\n\r\nThe word \u05E9\u05B4\u05D9\u05DE\u05B4\u05D9, as
    you can see,  has a hiriq and a yud; this  hiriq is gadol, a long vowel. In this
    word \u05E0\uFFFD\u05E6\u05BC\uFFFD\u05DC\uFFFD\u05D4 there's no letter yud; this
    hiriq is katan, a short vowel.\r\n\r\nAre we clear about \"101 Hebrew Grammar\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n1.
    Norzi, Minchat Shay: Norzi was not a grammarian in the full sense of the word,
    rather a Masorah researcher. In his own words: \r\n\r\nSince he saw printed text
    with errors his goal was to provide a reliable source. In this regard his was
    work valuable!!!. Norzi didn't develop any grammar specific rules, nor any rules
    that related to the ta'amim. Also his Ma'amar ha-Ma'arich is more articulation
    rather than writing rules from scratch. \r\nWhat are those rules that were \"formed\"
    by Norzi?  There must be something if you're  designing a font based on those
    rules. \r\n\r\n2. Traditions: It is no secret that none of traditions are homogeneous.
    Each of them has a sub-category/tradition. For now,  I'll mention a  couple of
    them.  \r\nThe Yemenite tradition accepted the Tiberian tradition who pushed away
    the Babylonian tradition. They accepted the Tiberian rules when reading the Bible,
    \ but not in other fields. \r\nIf you own their  Babylonian Talmud you'll see
    something interesting:\r\n(A) Segol: the vowel segol is not printed at all. They
    don't use it. It is not printed! Instead they use a patach. Why? Because they
    pronounce the segol and patach the same!\r\n(B) Hataf: the same applies to the
    hataf (e.g. hataf-patach). They don't use it. It is not printed. Why? Because
    they pronounce it like sheva na!\r\n(C) Sheva Nach: the sheva nach is not printed
    at all! In their real tradition the sheva nach doesn't exist. \r\nMoreover, their
    rules of beged kefet while reading the Bible are not the same when reading  the
    Talmud. They are different. \r\nBut wait. Their reading tradition of the Aramaic
    \ of the Targum is not like their Babylonian Aramaic. \r\nNow this is not just
    \ about the number of words, but knowing and understanding the differences that
    exist. Otherwise how could a person give a solution without knowing the \"problems\".
    \r\n\r\nIt is also not a secret that the Targum, or Onkelus, has different MSS.
    What do the  printed texts look like?  Let's just view several of them:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Targum_3749.png]\r\nAgain
    this is not just the number of words, or word related issues but familiarity with
    the subject matter and how you can or can't provide a solution. And at any rate
    you'll never \"cut the middle man\", or the need for a grammarian!\r\n\r\n\r\nOther
    traditions are not so different, for example,  Jews from Tunis (and again I'm
    not getting into specific areas , towns, etc. etc. as differences are existing).\r\nWhen
    they read the Bible, for example, they adopted the rules of Eliyahu Bachur. \r\nBut
    what is interesting is that they don't use the third rule: sheva na after a long
    vowel. In other words they  don't read this sheva as na!\r\nMore interesting is
    the fact that when they read a word from the Bible  e.g. \u05E7\u05E8\u05D1\u05DF\r\nwith
    \"o\" sound , or kamats katan; however, they  read it as \"a\" sound, just kamats
    ,  when they read the Mishna ( e.g.  \u05E1\u05D5\u05DB\u05D4 \u05D4, \u05D6;
    \u05EA\u05E8' \u05D7, \u05D0; \u05DE\"\u05E9 \u05D3, \u05D9) \r\n\r\nAnd this
    is not even showing  the tip of the iceberg.  Would you mind teaching me the logic
    behind finding a solution first, and later looking for the \"problems\"? How does
    it work? \r\n\r\n3. Meteg: in the siddurim the Biblical meteg does not exist unless,
    of course, you cite a verse, or half a chapter, or the whole chapter with all
    and the  same ta'amim and nikkud.\r\nThat \"meteg\" should be called SM -- Stress
    Mark, or MM -- Milel/Milra Mark (whatever the intention of the publisher).\r\nWhat
    should we (or your font) teach about that \"meteg\"? \r\nVery few will notice
    that a couple editions of the Bible have two graphic marks for the Biblical meteg/ga'ya.
    One that  is longer than the other, or one that is shorter than the other. \r\nShould
    we add that to the Unicode? \r\nIn terms of grammar there are 10 different kinds
    of Biblical meteg. They could be divided into 2 main groups, with five in each
    group: the must or have to group is based on the Masorah; the second group is
    the reshot, or non-obliged, where the Masorah gave a free hand to the scribe,
    and hence the many differences that exist between MSS.\r\nNow, which meteg should
    the font  try to \"teach\"?  Should we add that to the Unicode, ten differents
    kinds of vertical lines? It is important like the dagesh & sheva. \r\n\r\nWould
    it be wiser and easier first to familiarize yourself with the subject based on
    true investigation, understanding your subject(s), limitation, and then working
    with a specific client/publisher/editor on a specific solution/project?\r\n\r\n\r\n------------------------\r\n\r\nBill,\r\n\r\nWhat
    \ does English Transliteration have  to do with Hebrew, Modern Hebrew, or Spoken
    Hebrew???\r\nWe could find sewa, seva, schwa, shva, sheva etc etc. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 05:20:53'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "David hamuel: all my blobber through out these threds, you nicly summorized
    in one single thread.\r\n\r\nThanx\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 06:39:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nThis was a great lesson. Also, thanx.\r\n\r\nEli, I thought
    it was my blabberring. Yours was only virtual.\r\n\r\nI rethought Prof. D. and
    Rabbi R.'s remarks, and propose that if we transpose all Hebrew grammar rules
    into different graphic symbols, where a dagesh chazak or dagesh kal, are two different
    symbols or codes, and same for patachs x 2 = 2 different codes etc., then create
    GSUB rules, every shvah-na can be accurately replaced, and perhaps others as well.\r\n\r\nThis
    is major endeavor, and would require a grant of sorts.\r\n\r\nEli, is this what
    you did?\r\n\r\nI would prefer to reinvent the wheel, because I see the logic
    of these GSUBs could definately have commercial applications in security-sensitive
    fonts for security-sensitive environments, and I doubt that you would release
    your source code.\r\n\r\nI agree that the 3 views come after everything, for they
    simply differ on how the rules are applied.\r\n\r\nClearly, my major hurdle is
    finding out in English a systematic definition of all the rules. I need a compact
    portable David, ie David in an iPod :) - perhaps, it's Chomsky's book on the Radak
    (RAbbi DAvid Kimchi zatzal) - although it was so poorly written.\r\n\r\nFirst
    GSUBs: replace all nikkud and dagesh with two different codes, referring to GyphGroups
    - all vowels\r\nThen 2nd group of GSUB: applying different Hebrew grammar rules,
    and replacing those strings with new strings which insert shvah-nas \r\n\r\nEverything
    is in the nikkud: P. Dotan meant that the two forms of dagesh are also nikkudot
    (it's a dot, not a dim, Eli, right?).\r\n\r\nIs it soup, yet?"
  created: '2010-10-25 09:33:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think it would make a great looking font.\r\n\r\nAll nikkud and dagesh
    have 3 similar graphic forms:\r\n\r\nregular - as is\r\nkal - hollow\r\nchazal
    - outlined\r\n\r\nRaphael, whaddya thnk? Very intuitive."
  created: '2010-10-25 09:36:52'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Congratulations Gohebrew, you are finaly starting to talk my language.\r\nSo
    now its to to Talk in Volt Terms.\r\n\r\nI am going to open a new thread anf try
    keeping it around Fontlab And Volt. "
  created: '2010-10-25 10:07:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Why not Fontographer?\r\n\r\nHas anyone used Fontographer and gone there
    to Volt skipping FontLab?\r\n\r\nI tried once and it generated an arror.\r\n\r\nJohn
    H., what am doing wrong? Did Pyrus put a bug in to keep us using FontLab?"
  created: '2010-10-25 10:16:18'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I uses FL5 & FG5 (the new vertion, its great fore some stuff)\r\nPersonaly
    i use Mainly Fontlab.\r\n\r\nBut that dos't matter.\r\nGohebrew: I'v creadet a
    new topic, you will see eventualy"
  created: '2010-10-25 10:24:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: So, your Fontographer .ttf worked in Volt?
  created: '2010-10-25 10:43:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What does English Transliteration have to do with Hebrew, Modern Hebrew,
    or Spoken Hebrew???  We could find sewa, seva, schwa, shva, sheva etc etc.\r\n\r\nIt
    depends on your philosophy of transliteration. If you decide that the transliteration
    should reflect the correct Hebrew pronunciation of the word, then the transliteration
    will reflect the difference between the shva na and shva nach. Then issues of
    Hebrew, modern Hebrew, spoken Hebrew will affect decisions on transliteration.
    \r\n\r\nFor example in my [[http://www.jewishpub.org/product.php?id=444|newly
    published commentary on Pirke Avot]] I had to decide on how to transliterate the
    names of the Tannaim, for which there is no single standard transliteration. So
    for example \u05D0\u05B6\u05DC\u05B0\u05E2\u05B8\u05D6\u05B8\u05E8 I transliterate
    as Elazar, rather than as Eleazar. The latter is used more traditionally, and
    by the Encyclopedia Judaica. But it is confusing to English speakers, as the second
    \"e\" transliterates a shva nach, which is silent. And English speakers will first
    think of pronouncing the combination \"ea\" as the \"ea\" in \"eat\", which is
    totally misleading. So I transliterate as Elazar. I notice that the new Koren
    Siddur has made the same choice as I have, transliterating closer to spoken Hebrew.
    \r\n\r\nThese are non-issues for Hebrew speakers and readers, but for materials
    for English speakers they do make a difference.  \r\n \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 16:41:08'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Eli, Israel\r\n\r\nYou're welcome. I missed couple things (I'll add them
    later on)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBill,\r\n\r\nSo do you have a chart of transliteration,
    telling the readers about your method? \r\n\r\n> transliterating closer to spoken
    Hebrew.\r\n\r\nDid you follow the Hebrew Academy?"
  created: '2010-10-25 18:33:15'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "OY VAY, the Hebrew Academy.\r\ni heared they wanted to cancal the qmats and
    tsere alltugehter. "
  created: '2010-10-25 18:40:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  I need a compact portable David, ie David in an iPod :)\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nI'm
    working on  iDavidHamuel\r\n\r\n\r\n> i heared they wanted to cancal...\r\n\r\nEli,\r\n\r\nYes,
    there was an idea to cancel, but I don't know if this is a good idea.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 19:09:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, what I say is \"The Sages' names are pronounced following their pronunciation
    in Modern Hebrew, except for those with Greek names.\" And I use the underdot
    h for chet, kh for khaf. \r\n\r\nAs far as Hebrew pronunciation, it's just what
    my Hebrew teacher taught me, a very simple version. I don't think that there's
    anything complicated about the Sages' names, but I may be wrong. I don't claim
    to have a system of transliteration that is a model. That it's very close to what
    the Koren Siddur has done is reassuring. "
  created: '2010-10-25 19:59:43'
date: '2010-09-22 04:32:35'
title: Automatic Shva-na and Meteg Based Upon Context

---
