---
author:
  name: Jean Paul Beumer
  picture: 113283
body: "I know that most of you typophiles are experts and comments from you all are
  more then welcome, but I'm at a bit of a loss at the moment. So, I'm hoping there's
  someone among you who's willing to spend some time for the next four weeks (there's
  a selfproclaimed deadline) close guiding me.\r\nIn short: I'm looking for personal
  contact by e-mail or forum with someone who is willing and able to guide me through
  (what I hope to be) the final stages of designing, kerning and hinting my type design
  [[http://typophile.com/node/73658|Aubaine]].\r\n\r\nAny takers?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Eeh, I should warn you to be prepared to receive lots of stupid questions
    ;-)
  created: '2010-09-23 20:04:59'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Well, I'd say I would, but I probably am about as much of an expert as you
    are. I also probably would be unqualified because I have never kerned an entire
    typeface before. I also haven't spent more than 45 minutes using easier font designing
    tools such as Fontlab. (I've been using Fontforge so far.)\r\n\r\nMy guess is
    that your experience is much greater then mine. However good luck on your typeface,
    it's looking quite nice! I'd say the spacing does need some work, but that shouldn't
    take four weeks to fix.\r\n\r\nIf you have any stupid questions that I can answer
    I'd be glad to. :)"
  created: '2010-09-23 21:34:25'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'This is A LOT to ask. If you''re really serious, submit your types to a foundry.
    If they think it''s good enough they''ll probably offer critique, advice and help
    in the production. From what I''ve seen I don''t think you''re quite there yet
    (I''m not sure if I am or ever will be myself), so I suggest you look into schools
    teaching type design. Again: if you''re serious! Type is such a trendy thing nowadays
    -- everybody wants to do it. A big investment like an education is only worth
    it you have other, deeper, reasons IMO.'
  created: '2010-09-23 22:23:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I would suggest first to draw a heavy weight of your design. That can teach
    you a lot. Then get critiques. '
  created: '2010-09-24 01:14:47'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks for your responses guys!\r\n\r\nI'm an amateur type designer myself
    and don't have much experience either. I was never educated in type design, but
    ever since I saw fonts being drawn during my academy years, I was fascinated.
    After getting my diploma (I designed a phonetic alphabet in Futura as part of
    my exam) my dean wanted me to continue in type design (2nd phase study). I talked
    to people like Petr van Blokland, Just van Rossum and their students and drew
    inspiration from them. However, I didn't like the idea of spending another year
    in the academy, so I opted out.\r\n\r\nI claim to understand the basics about
    type design and can see if a font is designed well or not. But I feel I do miss
    the knowledge to finish the design, to release it, which I really want, but only
    if it's up to standard. Things like spacing, kerning and hinting I have absolutely
    no experience with. I'm sure the FontLab manual will tell me all about the technical
    aspects, but that does leave me with practical and design decisions to be made
    (things like \"Should I incorporate SC in the OT or make it a seperate font?\".\r\n\r\nI
    know I am asking a lot but perhaps I can make it easier. How about I send you
    guys updates by e-mail and you comment on that? You'd be of great help.\r\n\r\n@Brian:
    you said the spacing needs work, is it too wide, too narrow or just irregular?\r\n\r\n@Frode:
    you said I'm not there yet, and I agree. What are your thoughts?\r\n\r\n@William:
    there *is* an ultrablack weight already, though not complete. See the latest PDF.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 08:08:02'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "The spacing isn't too wide or too narrow, really, although you may want to
    space it out just a hair for text use. I have taken a closer look at this. (Though
    it still may be a safe bet to take what I say with a grain of salt.) The sidebearings,
    I think, look like they could be adjusted better - without the use of kerning
    as yet. The RSB on letters such as /P/B/R/ could be a little tighter, and the
    difference in spacing may be a bit too great between the round- and straight-sided
    letters, but only in some cases, as in some of the words, the spacing is literally
    less between the straight-sided letters than the round-sided. The sidebearings
    for harder-to-space letters like /x/g/s/a/e/ seem also to be either too tight
    or too loose in most cases, where they could be much better with sidebearings
    alone. The other \"problem\" is that, the counters of the round-sided letters
    are much more open than the straight-sided ones in the lighter weights, but the
    opposite is true of the heavier weights. The mid-weight seems to get it about
    right though. I'm not sure how far you'll want to go adjusting something like
    that, but in the lightest weight the rounded bowls seem much wider than the rest
    of the letters. I don't know if you have started kerning or not, but you probably
    need to focus on the sidebearings, and in a few cases, adjusting some of the letters
    a little.\r\n\r\nHope that makes sense."
  created: '2010-09-24 12:18:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Another option might be an internship at a foundry, if they exist (?).
  created: '2010-09-24 12:29:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: For serious technical questions that the manual can't help you with, the Build
    forum here is invaluable.
  created: '2010-09-24 13:55:12'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Brian,\r\nYou're opinion is highly appreciated! Sometimes, when I've been
    looking at something closely, I develop tunnel vision. I'll take all your comments
    into consideration.\r\n\r\nFor the moment, I've made a proof with the unaltered
    fonts, please check out the PDF above.\r\nAs far as I can see now (I'm talking
    about character shapes, not spacing) all accents and punctuation (too thin), g
    (curve between upper and lower bowl too diagonal), m (too narrow), t (upper part
    too thin), l (too fat but it could be my printer), s (leans towards the left)
    and Q (flag too close to bowl) in ultralight need adjusting. Also in the black
    font, besides all accents and punctuation, e and a (too fat and too little white),
    v (too fat), m (too narrow), w (too fat), r (too little white in connection),
    s (too fat), g (as above), Q (as above), W (too narrow), Y (contrast is off),
    B (too fat). I \"use\" the interpolated medium font to check both ultimate weights.\r\n\r\nFrode,\r\nThat's
    not a bad idea at all! It would have to fit in with my work though, and since
    I'm getting more and more jobs, i'ts very unlikely. Perhaps you would like to
    comment on the PDF, I'd appreciate it!"
  created: '2010-09-24 13:56:10'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: I've added another PDF proof, all Caps.
  created: '2010-09-24 14:30:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On spacing, my impression is that everything is more loosely spaced than
    most sans are\u2014too loosely IMHO.  \r\n\r\nYour \"bolding\" is problematic
    in places. The white space within the lower case letters of the black weight should
    be visually more equal. For example, the white in the counters in the a and e
    and g are too small. So is the top of the A, and bands of white in the E. The
    white space in the m is too narrow compared to the n, etc.\r\n\r\nYou have a very
    nice feel for letter shapes; I think the thing you are not \"getting\" yet is
    how to handle the white space, and how it relates to side bearings and to the
    white space in other letters. \r\n\r\nHave you read Tracy's Letters of Credit?
    Briem's site on type design? \r\n\r\nThe best school, other than critiques by
    masters, is opening in FontLab fonts you admire that are similar to yours in some
    way, and studying them in detail. To understand both spacing and weights better,
    open a really well crafted humanist sans\u2014so in the same \"design space\"
    as yours\u2014say Myriad by Robert Slimbach. Make the same words in the \"metrics
    window\" in both yours and Slimbach's and put them side by side, in the same weights.
    Do this for two different weights. Compare the spacing. Then copy and paste his
    weights over one another. Copy and paste your weights over one another. Compare
    the results, and what he did.  \r\n\r\nMost of the work in learning in any case
    is self-instruction, though the guidance of masters can be invaluable. And be
    warned, type design is a lot of work. After you've done the above, if I were you
    I'd take my work to some of the masters and ask for a critique. Since you are
    living there in \"scriptonia\" where you have a lot of great type designers in
    a small country, I'd think you'd find some people who'd give you 15 minutes, which
    is all it would take for an initial critique. Or if you want to come to New Orleans
    next summer, sign up and get a critique at TypeCon from Matthew Carter, Akira
    Kobayashi, and John Downer (that's the usual crew). Or go to one of the European
    type conferences and ask some of the designers you admire to critique your work,
    and offer to buy them a drink or lunch. "
  created: '2010-09-24 14:56:42'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Stupid question number 1:\r\n\r\nSuppose H has a left and right sidebearing
    of 100 and O 50. Does the same apply to lower case, so, let's say, i 100 on both
    sides and o 50? If not, what's the relationship between the sidebearings in caps
    and lower case?"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:00:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Answer: read Letters of Credit or [[http://briem.net/|Briem''s site]], or
    both. Try, then ask again.  '
  created: '2010-09-24 15:08:05'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@William: that's really funny, Brian suggests above to space it out more,
    not less :-)\r\n\r\nWhen I printed the proof I saw exactly what you mean with
    the inner whites in the black font. I will address this.\r\n\r\nYou're right;
    I don't see the relationship between inner white and sidebearings. I spaced the
    font by feeling. The ultralight is spaced wider than the black. Is this wrong?
    I did it because there's less white in the black font and want the spacing to
    feel right next to the inner white. Perhaps I'm thinking wrong?\r\n\r\nI haven't
    read Letters of credit, but am familiar with Briem's site. I did read Karen Chung's
    Designing Type and Cabarga's Bible. I even went to Gerrit Noordzij's last public
    college, but he didn't say anything about sidebearings ;-)\r\n\r\nFunny you should
    mention Myriad, I always found there is some sort of similarity with Aubaine.
    Great tip on looking at other fonts in FL! But I don't want to just copy, I need
    to understand.\r\n\r\nI do know some people from my academy years who know type
    designers. My wife suggested the same, to contact them and ask their opinion.\r\n\r\nNew
    Orleans sounds great, but the only way I can fund such a trip is if Aubaine sells
    really well ;-)\r\n\r\nThanks for the input, William!"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:14:24'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Jean Paul,\r\n\r\nI'm not the one to help you in kerning as I still did not
    reach this stage. Anyway, you can write me about T1 hinting and sidebar issues
    so we can at least try to find solutions. I'm pretty busy to follow your tight
    schedule, but some help is always possible.\r\n\r\nAbout you project, let me add
    two little suggestions.\r\n\r\nFirst, you may find useful to add other characters
    (numbers, punctuation, special characters, currencies etc.) before going to refine
    sidebars and doing kerning. Without the complete set of glyphs, your kerning will
    need to be expanded later. Tests with spacing are also more rich with all glyphs
    available.\r\n\r\nSecond, it's interesting to play with anchors before doing accented
    characters. After creating anchors, you can build very easily all characters with
    diacritics (see FL's manual about this, it's well explained).\r\n\r\nI think these
    two procedures must be made before kerning to achieve a optimal workflow.\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:21:00'
- author:
    name: deleted
  body: "re: kerning and spacing \r\n\r\nyou may want to check this out if the aim
    is to finish the font rather than learn spacing/kerning this time around\r\n\r\nhttp://ikern.com\r\n\r\ngood
    luck\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 15:57:50'
- author:
    name: deleted
  body: also i noticed there is an issue with your capital K in the pdf
  created: '2010-09-24 16:23:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Jean Paul, just check the spacing of successful humanist fonts like Frutiger
    and Myriad, and see for yourself. And test your own font looser and tighter and
    see what you like. As Briem expains, much of type design is testing variations,
    and picking the one you like best.   \r\n\r\n>But I don't want to just copy, I
    need to understand.\r\n\r\nDon't worry about copying. You already have your own
    sensibility on type. What you need to learn is the craft, and that is there in
    other fonts. You need to look at what different designers do, not one, and that
    should re-assure you about copying too much. And even copying the sidebearings
    from a font with similar character widths as a start is ok to learn\u2014and then
    adjust. Metrics are not copyrightable. The goal is to look good. Similarly, seeing
    how different designers handle different weights will help you decide what you
    want to do.  \r\n\r\nI would not go to ikern before you have spaced your font.
    Spacing and glyph design are really one process, because you may want to widen
    or narrow glyphs, as well as changing their sidebearings, to get the best rhythm
    and look in your font. You may even want to change some of their designs to get
    them to space better. \r\n\r\nAfter you've designed and spaced it, you could go
    to ikern, though frankly I think it is beneficial to learn kerning the first time
    around, as unpleasant as it is, particularly before you get fast at it. The point
    is that doing it yourself the first time trains your eye. \r\n\r\nPs. If you read
    Noordzij's The Stroke\u2014and you can read it in the original!\u2014you will
    gain some insight on the relation between white space in counters and sidebearings. "
  created: '2010-09-24 16:29:47'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@Igor:\r\nI like the idea of us two helping eachother out; I am going to
    take you up on that offer soon. Kerning is not yet in progress; spacing is hard
    enough for now. I read Briem's site (www.briem.net) extensively and I found some
    great tips, not just about spacing.\r\nYou're right to tell me I should finish
    all glyphs as far as possible first. But I'm an impulsive and sometimes impatient
    guy and guess it won't hurt to look into spacing at this stage. It'll probably
    mean some extra work, but I accept that. About those anchors, I have heard about
    them but no idea what they do. I'll have to read the manual.\r\n\r\n@Mike:\r\nNot
    sure about iKern. I mean, it looks like a great tool and would release me of quite
    a bit of work, but like I said, I'd like to know what needs to be done. And you're
    right, there's something wrong with K. However, when printed, it's resolved (in
    my case anyway).\r\n\r\n@William:\r\nI'll check out Myriad and possibly Meta and
    Unit, I like those two latter fonts. Also, Briem has great tips on spacing, I'll
    go from there. I do have The Stroke (signed copy!), but it's in English! Probably
    too long ago, I'll read it again. Finally, I'll buy a copy of Tracy's book next
    week.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-24 18:44:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Designing fonts well requires an insane amount of patience and attention
    to detail. You have to really love those little letters! But you evidently have
    the love and a gift, so good luck! '
  created: '2010-09-24 18:57:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And you need to take your time with this \u2014 at least I do! I\u2019m constantly
    learing new things and discovering new issues and possibilities, even years after
    drawing my first bezier curve."
  created: '2010-09-24 18:59:18'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think you have to come to accept the fact that the first 50 or so fonts
    you design will all be dreadful and just keep at it.\r\n\r\nAny advice you get
    you should take with a grain of salt. Especially here. Personally I think your
    font looks like a mash-up of several designs. That Q will always be a problem.
    But if you take my comments (or anyone else's) seriously then you have no business
    designing type.\r\n\r\nEveryone will give you a different take on drawing, spacing
    and kerning, so you'll have to follow Duke Ellington's (paraphrased) advice: \"If
    it looks good, it is good.\""
  created: '2010-09-24 19:55:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James M., there is a difference between thinking something over, and making
    up your own mind, on one hand and on the other hand automatically agreeing\u2014or
    in other words, not having your own mind. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me it is not a good
    idea to *dismiss* others' views but rather to listen and consider them, especially
    when you are beginning. Also it is smart to consider the source, and the quality
    of their work. \r\n\r\nBut I agree that if you don't have your own mind, there's
    not much point in doing it. "
  created: '2010-09-24 20:12:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: You just can't help yourself, can you Bill.
  created: '2010-09-24 20:44:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'James, if you could get over your sour tone, I''d find your contributions
    a lot more enjoyable. '
  created: '2010-09-24 20:53:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Ya see!
  created: '2010-09-25 01:57:46'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "@Frode:\r\nMe too, I'm constantly making miniscule changes to curves in both
    weights, hopefully for the better.\r\n\r\n@JamesM:\r\nYour reaction has strengthened
    me in my endeavour.\r\n\r\n@William:\r\nI agree, and I like to think I'm headstrong
    (not per definition a good quality) - people around me can confirm. I will take
    other's comments into consideration, but in the end it's *my* design."
  created: '2010-09-25 08:22:18'
- author:
    name: fonthausen
    picture: 110499
  body: "Hi JP.\r\n\r\nzowel in de regular alsook in de bold/black, zijn de binnenvormen
    erg belangrijk. Nu heb je in de vette welliswaar alles vetter gemaakt, maar ten
    koste van de binnenvormen. Het contrast (verschil dik/dun) zal in de lichtere
    gewichten afwijken van de vettere, maar als het ritme en de structuur overeind
    blijft wordt het er beter van.\r\n\r\nWat de spati\xEBring betreft, zou je moeten
    beginnen met woorden als 'minimum, noon, honolulu' etc. Met andere woorden, je
    begint met de basisvormen zoals onder meer de n, o, l en i. Pas als de onderkast
    goed loopt, zou ik met de kapitalen beginnen. Dit moet een tekstletter worden.
    Dus de kapitalen moeten bij de onderkast passen qua spati\xEBring. Vermoedelijk
    zullen de kapitalen iets ruimer staan dan de onderkast. In jouw voorbeeld van
    de linkerwaarde van de 'H'(100), dan zal de linkerwaarde van de 'n' een stuk krapper
    staan (bv. 80). En de linkerwaarde van de 'h' dan weer iets krapper (bv. 70).
    Dus stap voor stap een basis maken, waarop je de rest baseert.\r\n\r\nJe mag altijd
    mailen.\r\n\r\nMvg,\r\nJacques"
  created: '2010-09-25 10:07:45'
- author:
    name: Sarcoma
  body: "Something weird going on with the K. Fixes when zoomed in though\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capture_4815.PNG]"
  created: '2010-09-25 16:27:06'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Just some overlapping paths. The dieresis is also a problem, the intermediate
    weigh of the interpolation has the two elements overlapping, just a path numbering
    error. I'm surprised Bill B didn't point this out. Come on Bill, pay attention!\r\n\r\nAs
    to Bill B's advice to read Breim and Tracy, I never read either when I was learning
    to design type. Breim didn't exist and I didn't know about Tracy. Recently I've
    tried to read Tracy, but it just gives me the feeling I should hit myself in the
    head over and over again with a hammer. Dreadful stuff, and so obvious!\r\n\r\nGet
    your hands on Frutiger's latest opus. It revisits his old \"Type, Sign & Symbol\"
    which offered some of the most helpful information I ever found about designing
    type.\r\n\r\nHey Bill, with you it's always Bringhurst and Tracy, time to get
    on another trick pony!\r\n\r\nSour-ly\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2010-09-25 19:01:16'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "What's the title of Frutiger's latest? I've read Type Sign & Symbol already.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    my suggestion on spacing, that's based upon me own experience, and I've only done
    a serif so far. I do realize sans need to be spaced a bit tighter, but it still
    looks to me like not enough to me. :P So, it really depends. I would probably
    space a font differently than you would."
  created: '2010-09-26 18:02:13'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Before I begin spacing, I noticed two comments that were about character shapes,
    or rather, the obvious differences between the ultralight and black. I thought
    I'd better handle that first... So, after a day of redrawing most of the glyphs,
    I think I've achieved a more consistent feel - the ultralight and black fit better
    together. Please check out the 3rd PDF above.
  created: '2010-09-26 19:07:20'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ James\r\n\r\nGunnlaugur has been around longer than you think!"
  created: '2010-09-27 00:55:44'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Gunnlaugur has been around longer than you think!</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    so, but all these internet tubes are a rather new phenomenon when it comes to
    my type design education!\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-27 01:23:41'
- author:
    name: ScribblezGfx
    picture: 119009
  body: "Hello, \r\n\r\nLooks really good, few letters bug me like the uppercase A
    when the two A's are\r\nnext to each other.\r\n\r\nI would suggest try to, put
    weights next to each other. This will help you with checking the X-Height, also
    ascender & descender. From looking & zooming into the pdf attached the lower case
    dots on the (i//j)arn't touching your X-Height meaning they are taller than your
    UPPERCASE they should be level. \r\n\r\nTip try to judge your font with other
    known fonts to match kerning etc. \r\n \r\nfollow this gudie; http://www.nhsdesigns.com/images/examples/graphic_typography_anatomy.jpg\r\nhttp://www.wired.com/images_blogs/underwire/images/2007/04/19/kerning.jpg"
  created: '2010-09-27 16:46:11'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: "Thanks for the feedback Scribblez. Perhaps I'll make a stylistic alternate
    for AA :-)\r\nYou're right, the dots on i and j aren't on the same level as the
    caps. However, I don't see the nessecity, as long as it looks all right, it's
    okay by me!"
  created: '2010-09-27 18:07:53'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: Taking a break from Aubaine [[http://typophile.com/node/67608|here]]...
  created: '2010-10-11 14:43:15'
date: '2010-09-23 20:02:34'
files:
- filename: Aubaine tekstproef.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubaine tekstproef.pdf
- filename: Aubaine tekstproef CAPS.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubaine tekstproef CAPS.pdf
- filename: Aubainetekstproef26sep10.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Aubainetekstproef26sep10.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Wanted: personal online guidance into finishing type design'

---
