---
author:
  name: Alex Kaczun
  picture: 114613
body: "I'm hoping that someone might be able to assist me with a few FontLab 'OpenType\"
  feature questions:\r\n\r\n1) If I would like to expand my 'latin' base character
  sets to include all possible \"Eastern European\" accented character sets, do I
  just go by the 'code pages' set up in FontLab to create these various 'accented'
  sets? Examples would be, MacOS CentralEurope, ISO 8859-3 Tu, Gal, Esp, Latin 3 and
  ISO 8859-4 Baltic Latin 6. These are the 3 sets that I have created. But, looking
  at other 'Pro' fonts available for sale online, I see additional 'glyphs' offered
  such as: Aringacute, AEacute, Ldot, Oslashacute,  Wacute, Wcircumflex, Wdieresis,
  Wgrave, IJ, ij, among others (plus lower case for all these as well). Is there a
  'universal' unicode list that I should be following instead? Why I'm confused somewhat,
  is that these additional 'glyphs' referenced above do not seem to appear in FontLab's
  'code pages'. Please advise. Thank you.\r\n\r\n2) This particular series of typefaces
  will also incorporate hundreds of additional 'alternate glyphs' and letter combinations
  to create special visual combinations. I plan to use 'clig', contextual ligature
  feature table, in order to access all these alternates and combination letter forms.
  I guess this is the proper table setup to use? No other table setup in FontLab allows
  'multiple' glyphs to be substituted by another 'glyph' except a 'ligature-table'.
  Right? Anyway, I've also noticed that when I create this Opentype font and test
  in InDesign the feature 'clig' table is automatically on as default. This may confuse
  some users who do not want to see glyph substitutions as they start to type. I see
  that you can 'toggle' the feature table, 'on' or 'off', but, is there a way to set
  this feature 'off' as a default, and allow a user to turn on if desired? I think
  this would be better solution. Or, should I create a separate font called 'plus'
  at the end of font name to offer all these additional expert sets? Any ideas or
  suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.\r\n\r\n3) And, final question:
  has anyone compiled an extensive 'latin' list of 'glyph' letter combinations. Example,
  double letter, triple letter, and so forth, letter combinations that could be substituted
  for artistic combinations? I've been using an online dictionary to lookup all possible
  letter combinations to build such a list. But, if someone has already gone through
  the effort why reinvent the wheel, so to speak. Much appreciated if you could point
  me to some such resource.\r\n\r\nMany thanks to everyone, in advance, for any advise
  on these topics."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'My Advice: this belongs in the Build forum!'
  created: '2010-09-30 17:51:47'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Alex, I'm developing a font with extended Latin support and faced similar
    difficulties.\r\n\r\nProbably, the best place to begin with is [[http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2008/08/extended_latin.html|this
    post]] from Adobe's Typblography. You may use these glyph lists as a reference,
    although you can freely mix glyphs from any Latin-N group.\r\n\r\nTo add glyphs
    to your font in FL, use Ctrl+G and type the glyph names. If your base glyphs (let's
    say, A and acute) have anchors defined, FL will follow these marks to define diacritical
    position (when creating \xC1). Otherwise, it will centralize the diacritic. In
    view of this, a good practice is to define anchors to all plain glyphs and all
    diacritics before creating the accented characters.\r\n\r\nThe pages mode will
    not include automatically the glyphs you need.\r\n\r\nAbout the ligatures, clig
    is a feature on by default in all ID versions. If you are creating special ligatures
    which your users may prefer not adopt, there is dlig (dscritionary ligatures).
    Usually, standard ligatures (like ff, fl and fi) are defined in clig feature,
    while more unusual ones (like ct, st, Th) are defined in dlig.\r\n\r\nYou may
    also find useful [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm|this
    link]] about OT features definition.\r\n\r\nSpecifically about language support,
    I did research in Wikipedia for each target language alphabet. Another good information
    on this is available [[http://diacritics.typo.cz/|in this site about diacritics]]."
  created: '2010-09-30 18:59:13'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Thank you, Freiberger.\r\n\r\n\r\nVery helpful. This was exactly the information
    I needed.\r\n\r\nThanks again for pointing me in the right direction.\r\n\r\nMuch
    appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\nBest, Alex"
  created: '2010-09-30 19:30:31'
- author:
    name: Stephen Rapp
    picture: 111901
  body: "A useful link for understanding diacritics.\r\nhttp://diacritics.typo.cz/"
  created: '2010-09-30 21:31:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Usually, standard ligatures (like ff, fl and fi) are defined in clig
    feature...</em>\r\n\r\nShouldn't that be the \"liga\" feature?\r\n\r\nBut anyway,
    I've never been able to understand why a separate \"clig\" feature is necessary,
    it seems redundant."
  created: '2010-09-30 21:52:25'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@Nick Shinn\r\n\r\nYes, I agree Nick. I also think that the 'liga' feature
    was meant for the standard ligatures. And, I thought the 'clig' was meant specifically
    for other letter substitutions. But, as Freiberger points out the 'dlig' is best
    for alternates and variation substitutions. Especially, since it's 'off' by default,
    and user can enable. Much better solution for this sort of thing.\r\n\r\nBut,
    it's great to get others to comment and offer advise on this subject.\r\n\r\nI
    for one, have always been confused, a little, by all these 'feature' flavors.\r\n\r\nIf
    other's can shed additional light on the matter would be welcome.\r\n\r\nThis
    type of exchange is very constructive and helpful.\r\n\r\nBest to work in a standard
    way to avoid user confusion.\r\n\r\nThanks all again."
  created: '2010-09-30 22:49:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Hmm, I always thought {clig} was mostly for non-latin scripts? We will have
    to wait for a true guru but they only come to the Build forum :-)
  created: '2010-09-30 23:29:23'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>We will have to wait for a true guru but they only come to the Build
    forum</cite>\r\nOr hmm, you know, you can actually read the [[http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/featurelist.htm|documentation]]
    your self.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 00:12:44'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Ops... please read <code>liga</code> where I wrote <code>clig</code>!\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I think that two features to control ligatures is very good. This way font designers
    can separate the normal ligatures from the unusual, more stylish others. So we
    have more freedom to experiment with ligatures and the user gets the option to
    use them or not."
  created: '2010-10-01 00:21:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Re #1, I use the text file option with Generate Glyph, and use four separate
    files: Latin Extended A uppercase, LEA lowercase, setup fraction and make fraction.
    I keep separate upper and lower case files in case I want to make a unicase or
    small caps font. My Latin Extended A uppercase test file reads as follows reads
    as follows:\r\n\r\nAgrave, Aacute, Acircumflex, Atilde, Aring, Aringacute, Adieresis,
    Amacron, Abreve, Aogonek, AEacute, Ccedilla, Cacute, Ccircumflex, Cdotaccent,
    Ccaron, Dcaron, Dcroat, Egrave, Eacute, Ecircumflex, Edieresis, Emacron, Ebreve,
    Edotaccent, Eogonek, Ecaron, Gcircumflex, Gbreve, Gcaron, Gdotaccent, Gcedilla,
    Hcircumflex, Hbar, Eng, Igrave, Iacute, Icircumflex, Idieresis, Itilde, Imacron,
    Ibreve, Iogonek, Idotaccent, IJ, Jcircumflex, Kcedilla, Lacute, Lcedilla, Lcaron,
    Ldotaccent, Lslash, Nacute, Ncedilla, Ncaron, Ntilde, Ograve, Oacute, Ocircumflex,
    Otilde, Odieresis, Omacron, Obreve, Ohungarumlaut, Oslashacute, Racute, Rcedilla,
    Rcaron, Sacute, Scircumflex, Scedilla, Scaron, Scommaaccent, Tcedilla, Tcaron,
    Tbar, Ugrave, Uacute, Ucircumflex, Udieresis, Utilde, Umacron, Ubreve, Uring,
    Uhungarumlaut, Uogonek, Wcircumflex, Yacute, Ycircumflex, Ydieresis, Zacute, Zdotaccent,
    Zcaron\r\n\r\nThe actual file has no spaces after the commas but, in the interest
    of easy reading, they are included in this example.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 00:27:12'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "As an aside, I wonder why Adobe 'broke' the ligature feature in InDesign
    when 'tracking' is implemented. You can -minus tracking all you want and ligature(s)
    or substitutions remain intact, but just try to +plus tracking (usually +20 to
    +30) and the ligature automatically breaks and reverts to individual keystrokes.\r\n\r\nIn
    'Illustrator' this doesn't occur, and in QuarkXPress you can adjust the parameters
    when ligatures revert back to keystrokes. I know the thinking at Adobe was that
    they are doing the right thing...after a word is tracked open too much the ligature
    looks 'odd' so they break the connection.\r\n\r\nBut, really, this does us all
    a disservice and prevents us the 'type designers' and the 'font users' from controlling
    how they want the font to work? Yes/no?\r\n\r\nMy problem now is that even if
    I use the 'dlig' feature table for all my letter combination substitutions, they
    will revert as soon as the copy is tracked more than (+20) or so. And, there is
    no way that I can prevent this or control the event.\r\n\r\nAny ideas?"
  created: '2010-10-01 00:39:17'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Could it it because after +20 tracking, spacing of 'fi' or 'fl' etc. looks
    too tight? \r\n\r\nWould you like new ligatures for +20 tracking?"
  created: '2010-10-01 00:53:18'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "That's not the point. I agree with the reasoning, but why not allow the user
    to adjust the parameters 'if and when' this occurs.\r\n\r\nLigatures is one thing,
    but if I use the 'clig' or 'dlig' tables to enable 'other type glyph substitutions'
    it will 'break' if tracking is implemented.\r\n\r\nIs there any other way around
    this?\r\n\r\nThe only real solution, at the moment, is for the 'user' to manually
    select the 'alternate glyph' or other 'letter transformation' from the 'glyph
    window. Then you can track all you want without any issues. But, this is a tedious
    process for the 'user' and not as easy as toggling a feature 'on' or 'off'.\r\n\r\nJust
    frustrated. Any other ideas?"
  created: '2010-10-01 01:02:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You could use {calt} instead of ligatures in many cases. A good example for
    economy is that an alternate "f" instead of an "fl" ligature allows its use with
    every tall stemmed glyph, if desired.
  created: '2010-10-01 01:07:49'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ oldnick\r\n\r\nThank you for your list and working techniques. Makes sense.\r\n\r\nMy
    'Eastern European' list happens to match yours now.\r\n\r\nQuestion:\r\n\r\nI
    have come across other 'Pro fonts' where additional glyphs such as (Bdotaccent,
    Ddotaccent, Fdotaccent, Ldotaccent, Pdotaccent and Tdotaccent) including l'case
    come in the font. But, these glyphs do not even appear in the new 'extended latin
    4-5' sets. Are these needed? What languages are these used for anyway?\r\n\r\nCan
    anyone shed any light on this as well? Thanks."
  created: '2010-10-01 01:15:25'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ dezcom\r\n\r\nThanks, this idea of using 'calt' lookup table for replacing
    default glyphs with alternates works.\r\n\r\nBut, it's active as default, in InDesign.\r\n\r\nCan
    this feature somehow be turned off as default. And allow user to 'toggle on' if
    desired.\r\n\r\nThis is really the solution I want and prefer.\r\n\r\nIs there
    a way in FontLab to adjust some parameter (or coding) in order to prevent 'calt'
    from being active as default.\r\n\r\nIs this possible? Thanks."
  created: '2010-10-01 01:26:37'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Bdotaccent, Ddotaccent, Fdotaccent, Pdotaccent and Tdotaccent are used in
    traditional Irish typography. I'm not aware about Ldotaccent. There is Ldot, used
    in Catalan. L' is the correct form to represent Lcaron in Slovak.\r\n\r\nThere
    is no way to control a feature on/off from the font code. This is an OT definition
    and would be implemented the same way by all apps."
  created: '2010-10-01 03:00:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Put your {calt} feature code for things you don't want on by default in a
    stylistic set.  The code is the same except you call out ss01 , etc,. instead
    of {calt}
  created: '2010-10-01 08:36:40'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ Freiberger, thank you for the explanation.\r\n\r\nBdotaccent, Ddotaccent,
    Fdotaccent, Pdotaccent and Tdotaccent are used in traditional Irish typography.
    And, Ldot\r\n\r\nAre there Unicodes for these glyphs?\r\n\r\n\r\n@ dezcom, stylistic
    set (ss01), off by default,  will work great. I'll try it. Thanks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-01 15:10:06'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Alex, I suggest you to download the PDF Unicode charts for Latin (and also
    other blocks your font would support, as combining diacritics or symbols). They
    are here: [[http://www.unicode.org/charts/|http://www.unicode.org/charts/]]\r\n\r\nYou
    can search for any character using PDF search field. Just note that Unicode charts
    does not uses the naming \"Adotaccent\". They adopt \"A with dot above\" as the
    glyph description. Anyway, you can find the glyphs easily in the Latin blocks
    (there are a total of seven blocks of Latin script).\r\n\r\nProbably late October
    we will have a new Unicode version available (6.0). Anyway, no relevant changes
    were proposed to Latin blocks (as far as I remember, there is just the inclusion
    of a pair of African special characters proposed)."
  created: '2010-10-01 16:46:50'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Another place for useful basic information on diacritics is typo.cz, at least
    for European languages. Here's the page on the dot accent:\r\n\r\n[[http://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=15]]"
  created: '2010-10-01 17:09:36'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "You have all helped me complete a task that seemed challenging from the start.\r\n\r\nMuch
    appreciated.\r\n\r\nThis forum is indeed a great resource.\r\n\r\nAgain, many
    thanks to everyone."
  created: '2010-10-01 17:30:03'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "If anyone is interested, I came across a fabulous list of 2, 3 and 4-letter
    most common word combinations that would be helpful to anyone wanting to build
    a stylistic set of alternate 'letter forms'.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.math.toronto.edu/jjchew/scrabble/lists/common-234.html"
  created: '2010-10-03 16:43:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Alex, \r\n\r\nif you install the Fontographer 5 demo, in FontLab Studio you'll
    get several new encodings. In the \"OpenType\" group, there'll be \"OpenType LatPro\",
    which is an encoding encompassing 403 glyphs for all important pan-European Latin
    characters. There is also \"OpenType LatPro SC\", which adds small caps for all
    these characters, as well as various types of numerals and additional ligatures.
    \r\n\r\nBoth encodings use the newest glyph name conventions recommended by Adobe
    and FontLab. "
  created: '2010-10-03 17:55:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Various folks' comments and questions:\r\n\r\n> Put your {calt} feature code
    for things you don't want on by default in a stylistic set.\r\n\r\n?  That would
    be 'salt' instead. 'calt' is for contextual/connecting alternates.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    'clig' is for contextual ligatures.\r\n\r\n> As an aside, I wonder why Adobe 'broke'
    the ligature feature in InDesign when 'tracking' is implemented.\r\n\r\nBecause
    when the text is tracked too much, typically the ligatures tend to start looking
    as if they are spaced incorrectly. It was Eric Menninga's idea, but I supported
    it. I think I ran it by the rest of the type team at the time, but my memory is
    a bit fuzzy. This was no later than InDesign 2.0 around summer 2002.\r\n\r\n>
    You can -minus tracking all you want and ligature(s) or substitutions remain intact,\r\n\r\nReally?
    That is arguably a bug, but then again, when do you have minus tracking more than
    about -20 or so?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-10-04 05:08:45'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ Thomas Phinney\r\n\r\nThank you for clarifying the use for 'salt' vs. 'calt'
    tables. Good to know.\r\n\r\nYour argument for the reasoning to 'break' the ligatures
    when plus tracking is valid. I understand.\r\n\r\nStill, I and many others, I'm
    sure would have preferred to leave it the way it use to work.\r\n\r\nAlways best
    to let the user decide and adjust the parameters as needed.\r\n\r\nBesides, that's
    why you can toggle ligatures 'on' or 'off', to allow users to decide if the ligature
    works correctly or not.\r\n\r\nWouldn't you agree?\r\n\r\nAnd, if you are going
    to implement something then do it consistently.\r\n\r\nAdobe Illustrator does
    not 'break' the ligatures.\r\n\r\nAnd, QuarkXPress and other applications do not
    do this.\r\n\r\nSo why be different, if not better?"
  created: '2010-10-04 16:44:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...when do you have minus tracking more than about -20 or so?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    all the rage.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-04 16:48:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "<< Put your {calt} feature code for things you don't want on by default in
    a stylistic set.\r\n\r\n? That would be 'salt' instead. 'calt' is for contextual/connecting
    alternates.>>\r\nThomas,\r\nThis was in response to Alex's question, \"Can this
    feature somehow be turned off as default. And allow user to 'toggle on' if desired.\"\r\n\r\nWhen
    you make a connecting \"f\" that is only used when preceding an \"l, b, k, etc\"
    you are indeed connecting alternates, it is not a question of style. I was just
    trying to give Alex a workaround for ligatures using \"fl\"as an example.\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2010-10-04 18:14:43'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Re Alex Kaczun's reply to Thomas Phinney on ligatures and tracking:\r\n\r\nWhat
    I'd always thought would be nice would be if there was some sort of informational
    feature (sort of like the 'size' feature) which would allow the font to specify
    how much tracking various features (liga, dlig, calt, etc.) would tolerate since
    this varies considerably depending on the design. InDesign's +20 limit is likely
    not appropriate in all cases.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-10-08 20:58:54'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Alex: this list you pointed out contains common two, three, and four letter
    words -- not common combinations; these are known as \"bigrams\" (sometimes they
    are called \"digraphs\", but actually that's something else).\r\n\r\nYou need
    a substantial corpus to do the calculations yourself, but fortunately this is
    a popular area of research :-) (and I bet that's just because it can help in decrypting
    encoded messages!).\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bigram\">Wikipedia
    on Bigram</a> shows a frequency list of the most common two or thee dozen bigrams."
  created: '2010-10-08 22:25:17'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ agisaak\u2014Yes, exactly. I agree. The original version of InDesign 2.0
    did allow parameter settings to adjust tolerances when desired. I wish they would
    fix this and bring back that capability.\r\n\r\n@Theunis de Jong\u2014Thanks,
    I know the task is daunting, but I was finally able to put together a list of
    about 300-400 common letter combinations. I had to stop because it was giving
    me a headache. It will have to suffice. If someone else came up with their own
    list please share. Thanks.\r\n\r\nOkay, I have one final question (I hope) on
    encodings. Everything everyone spoke about here was very helpful.\r\n\r\nBut,
    I still have a question about small capital accent encodings.\r\n\r\nCan anyone
    sled any light on this topic as well.\r\n\r\nCan I just name these glyphs 'Sacute.small'.
    'Tcaron.small', etc., and have no encoding for these glyphs?\r\n\r\nThe Opentype
    table 'smcp' will transpose all the lower case (plus accents) to small caps (plus
    accents). Right?\r\n\r\nOr, do I have to find encodings for all these small capital
    accented glyphs.\r\n\r\nPlease advise anyone. Thanks.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-16 21:32:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There are not separate encodings for smallcaps since they are not their own
    letter, just a form of the encoded glyphs that are associated with them via the
    opentype feature code and classes. I would name your smallcap glyphs the same
    as the glyph they refer to plus an extension as you have shown above. I personally
    use ".sc" because it is brief yet clear to me. This way, I can see many more glyphs
    in a string than if I use something longer like ".small"--that is just my preference.
  created: '2010-10-19 18:30:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "I also use .sc for the same reason. And what dezcom described equally applies
    to petite caps, swashes, tabular figures or alternate design to given glyphs (if
    your font includes these sets).\r\n\r\nCorrespondence between small caps and \"normal\"
    glyphs is made just through classes and OT features (c2sc and smcp).\r\n\r\nBe
    aware OT replaces glyphs according to its position in the class. So, your 15th
    glyph on a class will be replaced by the 15th glyph on the other class you are
    using \u2013no matter if one is Eacute and other is Edieresis.sc.\r\n\r\nThis
    becomes important because there are glyphs without corresponding lowercase or
    uppercase (German long s, G inverted comma above, Ezsett, etc)."
  created: '2010-10-19 21:10:48'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@ dezcom\u2014Thanks, I will use your suggested extension. Makes sense.\r\n\r\n@
    Freiberger\u2014I would really like to grasp what you are saying, exactly.\r\nAs
    long as I'm including all the glyphs associated in 'smcp' table, everything will
    convert okay (from lower case to small cps).\r\n\r\nWhat is this position class
    replacement you are referring to?\r\n\r\nPlease elaborate. I really need to know
    if something might break in my font. Thanks."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:10:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glyph order and total number of glyphs in all classes that may be substituted
    for eachother must match.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:25:12'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Oh, okay. That's what I was hoping to hear. Thanks.\r\n\r\nDoesn't that go
    without saying... if you are going to include table transformations, then yes,
    this is essential.\r\n\r\nI though I was missing something else in my general
    setup.\r\n\r\nBut, all is right with the Universe again :)"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:35:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's a small technicality, but the table is GSUB, and 'smcp' is a layout
    feature (subtable) in the GSUB table. 'smcp' is not a table of its own.\r\n\r\n(Not
    sure it matters here, but sometimes it's important to know things like 'smcp'
    being part of the GSUB table....)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-10-21 23:44:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">>But, all is right with the Universe again<<\r\n\r\nor did you mean \"Univers\"
    instead ;-)"
  created: '2010-10-22 01:12:59'
date: '2010-09-30 17:46:45'
node_type: forum
title: Managing FontLab's Opentype Features

---
