---
author:
  name: Jens Kutilek
  picture: 113138
body: "... then check out the bug reports related to Linux rendering for the Ubuntu
  font family.\r\n\r\nhttps://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-font-family/+bugs\r\n\r\nBut
  beware, only true font nerds can find this entertaining on a Saturday afternoon
  ;)"
comments:
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Oh that's nothing. A few days work, and that should be fixed. But I must say
    that having the bugs in a bug-tracker is a good idea. Versioning and bug-tracking
    is a good idea. Did anyone do a versioning system for UFO's yet? I know of one
    person who have done some work on such a system, but it's not done.
  created: '2010-10-02 13:12:47'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Most of the bugs are about incomplete glyph coverage, glyph design, kerning
    etc. few about rendering issues and it includes rendering issues on Windows too
    since the font is being tested through a wen app as a web font.
  created: '2010-10-02 13:57:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I love this one: <em>Capital M looks like it was from a completely different
    font.</em>\r\n\r\nThen there\u2019s this tiny request: <em>Please add Monospace
    fonts for terminal use</em>\r\n\r\nThis guy clearly showed up at the wrong party:
    <em>'y' and 'W' character appears too bold at 7 pt with Cleartype</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    this one takes the cake. If you think Esperanto complaints are bad, try <em>While
    we don't have a huge Klingon community in Ubuntu (at least not according to the
    Klingon Translations Team[1]), it would still be nice to at least be able to display
    the Wikipedia Klingon Language page[2] properly\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nAnd people wonder
    why font designers don\u2019t create more Open-Source fonts."
  created: '2010-10-02 21:35:27'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: As an "open source" (I prefer to call it "free") font developer, I fail to
    see what is wrong with the issues you are citing, all are pretty valid concerns
    to me and should be put into consideration.
  created: '2010-10-02 23:36:06'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "There is nothing wrong with most of the bug reports. I find most of them
    really interesting (true, there are some funny ones which show a lack of type
    design knowledge like the one James quoted about adding a Monospace family). It
    just seems to me that Linux has been flying under the radar of commercial font
    production until now*, but now a whole new can of worms has been opened.\r\n\r\nOn
    Windows the rendering options are quite simple: No smoothing, Greyscale smoothing,
    ClearType (+recently DirectWrite). That's 4 options.\r\n\r\nOn Ubuntu (Gnome?
    I kind of lost track there ...) there is No smoothing, Greyscale, Subpixel; with
    hinting ignored (Mac-like), slight, medium, and full. The interpreting of certain
    instructions may be switched on or off in FreeType (patent issues). That gives
    you over 20 combinations that may affect the final result.\r\n\r\n* Yes, I know
    there are the Droid and Liberation fonts, but I haven't seen a bug tracker for
    them."
  created: '2010-10-03 12:56:32'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: I don't see what is funny about asking for a monospaced font, Ubuntu font
    is intended to be an interface font, and a monospaced variant is a must. It might
    not be worded in the most type savvy way, but canonical is explicitly asking for
    community input which would certainly include requests like this (and they seem
    to acknowledge the need for a monospaced font). I agree about the diversity of
    the possible configurations and it might be a challenge to support all of those.
    But Ubuntu as an OS vendor (or distribution maker) can opt to only support whatever
    their default configuration is (plus another one or two most common configurations).
  created: '2010-10-03 14:31:50'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Most of the bugs seen are from unhinted pre-release or system/rasterizer
    or apps issues. Largest being the slight or medium settings which don't use the
    hints properly. \r\n\r\nThis is what it looks like on an Android mobile. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/10/new-ubuntu-font-meets-android-looks-stunning/\r\n\r\nOther
    character set issues weren't in the design brief or are in process of development.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/klingon_3641.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-05 14:06:40'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: So I guess a small investment in time and money for Rosetta Stone/Klingon
    can really pay off.
  created: '2010-10-05 19:05:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">On Windows the rendering options are quite simple: No smoothing, Greyscale
    smoothing, ClearType (+recently DirectWrite). That's 4 options.\r\n\r\n>On Ubuntu
    ... That gives you over 20 combinations that may affect the final result.\r\n\r\nWindows
    does come with a ClearType tuner that does let you adjust the ClearType to best
    suit your personal set of eyeballs. So there are more than 3 settings if you count
    the tuning subtleties. \r\n\r\nContrast with the zero options on latest Mac OS,
    down from 3 in previous version? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-05 19:57:33'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "I played around with the Ubuntu 10.10 RC today, and I must say that its rendering
    is \u2013 by far \u2013 the best between Windows, OS X and OSSs. OS X is far too
    fat/dark, Windows requires hinting and ClearType is (still) jagged.\r\n\r\nI can't
    believe why Microsoft is still hanging on to the hinting approach. Apple on the
    other hand should take a clue from Ubuntu. Far superior fidelity to the outlines.
    And don't get me started on webbrowsers. Rendering quality must be at the bottom
    of their list."
  created: '2010-10-05 23:06:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Clause: <em>I can't believe why Microsoft is still hanging on to the hinting
    approach.</em>\r\n\r\nI can, because I get to see the clear benefits of hinting
    on a daily basis making fonts for a whole range of writing systems legible at
    11 and 12 ppem. Since these are fonts primarily targeted at limited size ranges
    on screen, I get to design to the bitmaps as much as feasible (given that the
    fonts need to be reasonably future-proof against higher resolutions and zoomable
    environments), which in theory is the ideal situation for hintless rendering.
    But applying hinting to these size-targeted outlines has immediate, obvious visual
    benefits: stem density (blackness) is increased, stem edges are sharpened, small
    counters can be held open, letter proportions and sidebearings can be adjusted
    for proximate ppem sizes.\r\n\r\nI'll go further: not only should people still
    be hinting, they should be using VTT to do it. FontLab's TT hinting is nice to
    have for mocking stuff up and for quickly checking GDI CT rendering during outline
    design, but the range of control and options available in VTT makes it pretty
    indispensable for high quality developing screen fonts."
  created: '2010-10-05 23:28:39'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Okay, fair enough, but have you compared it to the current Ubuntu rendering?
    I'm curious to know how you rate it.
  created: '2010-10-06 00:49:40'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "<cite>I'll go further: not only should people still be hinting, they should
    be using VTT to do it. </cite>\r\n\r\nHere , here!\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2010-10-06 01:59:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Claus, can you be more specific in terms of what I should be looking at on
    Ubuntu? What I've seen of text rendering on Ubuntu to date\u2014reading over my
    wife's shoulder\u2014has been inconsistent but tending towards the aenemic. I'm
    quite willing to believe that there is some good rendering happening somewhere
    on Ubuntu, but I'm not sure where to look for it. I have noticed wide inconsistencies
    between applications, e.g. between different browsers, so it would be helpful
    if you can precisely define the variables that result in what you think I should
    look at (Ubuntu version; add-ons or critical downloads; font flavour; application
    version; etc.)."
  created: '2010-10-06 07:30:23'
- author:
    name: malcolm
    picture: 109919
  body: "John you\u2019re  absolutely right. Hinting for Ubuntu is like trying to
    hit a moving target.\r\n\r\nThe FreeType rasterizer on Ubuntu is configurable
    by any application, so you find that OpenOffice rasterizing is different from
    Mozilla Firefox rasterizing which is different again from the \u2018standard\u2019
    system rastersing. \r\n\r\nThe Ubuntu system rasterizing is also extensively configurable
    by the user \u2013 from \u2018full\u2019 hinting down to \u2018no\u2019 hinting
    with switches turning off or on B/W, Greyscale and LCD. Some of these various
    levels have effects like ignoring \u2018hdmx\u2019 values and \u2018cvt\u2019
    values.\r\n\r\nAnother problem here is that the fonts (under an OpenSource license)
    will inevitably end up on other OS\u2019s so the hinting has to take account of
    this therefore the fonts cannot be hinted just for FreeType on Ubuntu.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-06 13:22:18'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: "John, I've made some screenshots from Typekit's specimens [[http://typekit.com/fonts/adobe-text-pro]]
    That way others are able to pull up the same specimens on their computers for
    comparisons. Adobe fonts are famously auto-hinted, but if you want to point me
    to another font that will perform better in Windows let me know.\r\n\r\nWaterfalls\r\nUbuntu
    10.10 RC / Firefox\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Ubuntu%20Firefox.png]]\r\n\r\nOS
    X 10.6.4 / Safari 5.0.2\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Safari%20OS%20X.png]]\r\n\r\nWindows
    7 / Internet Explorer 9 beta\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Windows%207%20IE9.png]]\r\n\r\nBest
    renderings:\r\n36 Ubuntu wins. OS X is too dark/fat. Windows is too thin, some
    strokes disappear (f, a, u, h, m, p). 'T' is flat on the top, compare with Ubuntu
    \u2013 I say it's better fidelity to the outline.\r\n30 Id.\r\n24 Id.\r\n21 Id.\r\n18
    This is where the Windows (auto-)hinting falls apart. All the Windows renderings
    below this size are awful. Ubuntu still clearly in the lead, OS X is too dark.\r\n16
    Id.\r\n14 Id.\r\n13 From this size and down Ubuntu does become anemic compared
    to OS X, however it retains higher fidelity to the design, and it's not bad per
    se.\r\n12 Id.\r\n11 Id.\r\n10 Id.\r\n9 Id.\r\n\r\nSample text\r\nUbuntu 10.10
    RC / Firefox\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Ubuntu%20Firefox%202.png]]\r\n\r\nSmoothest
    rendering of the three. Keeps a contrast between vertical and horizontal strokes
    that OS X does not.\r\nMajor colour-fringing in negative text, but still the best
    between to three (but only because the three are generally horrible in negative).\r\n\r\nOS
    X 10.6.4 / Safari 5.0.2\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Safari%20OS%20X%202.png]]\r\n\r\nBlocky,
    splotchy (eg. vertical stroke in 'a') rendering with a noticeable lack of contrast
    between horizontal and vertical strokes.\r\n\r\nWindows 7 / Internet Explorer
    9 beta\r\n[[http://dl.dropbox.com/u/10940424/screenshots/Windows%207%20IE9%202.png]]\r\n\r\nWhat
    can I say? The Windows rendering is extremely jagged. Fidelity to the design is
    very low. People who prefer this should probably get prescription glasses or an
    LCD monitor, or both.\r\n\r\nComments?"
  created: '2010-10-06 17:10:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@JH\r\n<em>\"I'll go further: not only should people still be hinting, they
    should be using VTT to do it. FontLab's TT hinting is nice to have for mocking
    stuff up and for quickly checking GDI CT rendering during outline design, but
    the range of control and options available in VTT makes it pretty indispensable
    for high quality developing screen fonts.\"</em>\r\n\r\nYes, people should still
    be hinting. For many reasons. After some testing with IE9 rendering, that's even
    more clear.\r\n\r\nI disagree on the VTT part. Learning curve too high. Can't
    produce enough to meet the immediate demand. There are very acceptable, quicker
    alternatives.\r\n\r\nLet's not get into a back-and-forth about what constitutes
    \"high quality\".\r\nToday, my definition is \"lack of distracting defects\".\r\nAll
    of this IMHO.\r\n\r\n@clauses\r\nDo you know what format the Adobe font from Typekit
    is being delivered in?\r\nBecause when you say, \"famously auto-hinted\", that's
    PS hinting, not TrueType hinting.\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-06 18:26:08'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: I am under the impression that both TT and CFF OTF fonts of original Adobe
    designs are auto-hinted.
  created: '2010-10-06 18:45:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "RF> Let's not get into a back-and-forth about what constitutes \"high quality\".\r\n\r\nOkay.
    What constitutes auto-hinting then, IYHO?\r\n\r\nAnd when one has to distinctively
    \"hint\" hundreds of fonts, the definition of quality perhaps goes beyond a lack
    of distracting defects, and onto containment of attractive effects?\r\n\r\nClauses>
    OS X 10.6.4 / Safari 5.0.2\r\n\r\n(your first specimens of waterfalls), I don\u2019t
    know where you got a Times on the Mac to dance with Century serifs at 36 pt. Is
    there some special song you play while rendering it?\r\n\r\nmalcolm> John you\u2019re
    absolutely right. Hinting for Ubuntu is like trying to hit a moving target.\r\n\r\nSo,
    then... what's left to compare hinting for Ubuntu, Windows and the Mac OSs to
    again, I forget?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 14:24:27'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: David I don't understand your question. Care to rephrase that in prose?
  created: '2010-10-07 14:32:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>what's left to compare hinting for Ubuntu, Windows and the Mac
    OSs to again, I forget?</em>\r\n\r\nA moving target that's shooting back at you."
  created: '2010-10-07 18:29:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@db\r\n<em>\"And when one has to distinctively \"hint\" hundreds of fonts,
    the definition of quality perhaps goes beyond a lack of distracting defects, and
    onto containment of attractive effects?\"</em>\r\n\r\nLook, I know what you're
    saying. But what's the best that can be done for now? In bulk. Quickly.\r\nAs
    JH said, it's like trying to hit <em>a moving target that's shooting back at you.</em>\r\n(Keep
    writing fellas, and I'll keep cutting and pasting.)\r\n\r\nAs of yesterday, the
    Typekit blog has started to hone in on sites using Typekit's library.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://blog.typekit.com/2010/10/08/sites-we-like/\">Sites We Like</a>\r\nOne
    of them is <a href=\"http://100k.bigcartel.com/\">Bigcartel.com</a>\r\n\r\nUsing
    faces named LTC Bodoni and Ambroise.\r\nNow, Ambroise, at least at the larger
    sizes used, looks OK. (There are a few defects - the capital H is missing it's
    crossbar, for example. At least on my machines.)\r\n\r\nBut LTC Bodoni is a disaster.
    At first, I thought some things - like the t's that overshoot the baseline were
    a design feature. A little bit of funk.\r\nBut no, it's just a crap hinting job
    all around. And it makes you wonder how something like that passes.\r\nBut it
    does. It do. And it's there for all to see. And pointed to with pride!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/10-9-2010
    8-41-01 AM_3921.jpg]\r\n\r\nINFG wins again. And if crap sells, you have to ask
    yourself \"why mess with a winning formula?\"\r\n\r\nOr maybe it's an opportunity
    for brand extension. LTC Bodoni Crap and LTC Bodoni Fixed.\r\nAnd let the customer
    decide.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-10-09 14:54:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Rich: <em>...what's the best that can be done for now? In bulk. Quickly.</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    good enough.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<em>I disagree on the VTT part. Learning curve too
    high. Can't produce enough to meet the immediate demand. There are very acceptable,
    quicker alternatives.</em>\r\n\r\nHinting is a design process, measured in the
    legibility of its results at specific sizes, so the notion of acceptability, like
    all notions of quality in type design, is directly related to individual typefaces
    for particular writing systems at specific sizes. There is no generalised basis
    for declaring one tool, process or strategy \u2018very acceptable\u2019, except
    insofar as the tool enables one to do everything that might need to be done to
    achieve the desired results.\r\n\r\nIf you go back and read the post in which
    I made the comment about VTT, you'll understand that I'm talking specifically
    about situations in which autohinting or even manual hinting in FontLab is not
    sufficient, because that tool doesn't enable one to do everything that needs to
    be done. Claus was wondering why Microsoft still rely on hinting in their rasterisation
    model, instead of ignoring hints in the way that Apple do or some applications
    using Freetype do. I replied with reference to the visible benefits of hinting
    generally, and more specifically in context of making dedicated screen fonts for
    small ppem sizes for writing systems that have much more stroke complexity than
    Latin or other European scripts. I might suggest that the reason Microsoft still
    include hinting in their rasterisation approach is that they have a much better
    understanding of the needs of internationalisation than any other OS developer.
    There are plenty of glyphs in plenty of writing systems that, without hinting
    control, resolve into grey blobs at typical text sizes on screen."
  created: '2010-10-10 03:04:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Rich> And if crap sells, you have to ask yourself \"why mess with a winning
    formula?\"\r\n\r\nI\u2019d ask if <em>only</em> crap sells. But the winning formula
    you refer to, is that there is no one winning formula, because there are many
    more than just one baby, baby.\r\n\r\nRich> I disagree on the VTT part. Learning
    curve too high.\r\n\r\nI think that\u2019s s\u2019posed to be \u201Ctoo steep,\u201D
    as only an overshooting curve can be too high. And, perhaps VTT is documented
    for another age and some things have happened to change the curve steepness that
    are not reflected either in its operation or its documentation? I\u2019ll ask.
    \r\n\r\nJohn>\r\n\r\nYour suggestion, that Microsoft still include hinting because
    they have a much better understanding of the needs of internationalization than
    Apple e.g., I think is partly not on target. Microsoft still include hinting because
    they have less control over fonts, font software and display devices as a percentage
    of their OS base vs. Apple who is in control of a huge percentage, (down to the
    very fonts allowed in most of their new devices). \r\n\r\n>There are plenty of
    glyphs in plenty of writing systems that, without hinting control, resolve into
    grey blobs at typical text sizes on screen.\r\n\r\nAnd so they zoom, (the old
    fashioned way) on most Macs, which I guess one can\u2019t just assume on all Windows
    devices? I think the issue is not, with all due respect, understanding of the
    needs of internationalization so much as solving the needs of open-system font
    adoption on an international scale, without control over the whole process from
    what font is loaded, to pixels on the screen. \r\n\r\nAnd this, as you know I
    believe, is a situation without a process adequate to manage the unfolding complexities
    of a web-gone-property-wild.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-10 15:05:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I think the issue is not, with all due respect, understanding
    of the needs of internationalization so much as solving the needs of open-system
    font adoption on an international scale, without control over the whole process
    from what font is loaded, to pixels on the screen.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's fair
    and more nuanced analysis. Thanks.\r\n\r\nRe. zooming: I'm having to think a lot
    these days about UI fonts, localisation, and screen real estate, so I don't see
    zooming as an adequate solution to screen legibility issues. I really wish it
    were, because I'm going a bit mad trying to figure out ways to make some glyphs
    legible at 11ppem.\r\n\r\nLooking forward, the answer has to be adaptive layout
    that is sensitive to locale settings and language of everything from the UI to
    web/document content. But at the moment, UIs tend to be immutable and, alas, often
    designed around English text strings and font metrics."
  created: '2010-10-10 19:52:14'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> Klingon\r\n\r\nSo has anyone seriously explored adaptations of the Klingon
    alphabet that will work well on the same line as the Latin alphabet? Perhaps there
    is some way find the elemental form of the characters and create new typefaces
    based upon that. One must wonder if there are display and text varients of the
    language, or how their letterforms developed. Was there a traditional calligraphy?
    It looks like the letterforms may be easily written with a brush.\r\n\r\nWhile
    the amount of fluent Klingon speakers in the world is small, the ones that do
    use this language will obviously appreciate the development. And, if you don't
    think Klingon is a serious language, consider that you can get Hamlet in Klingon.
    And, in the words of a great Klingon:\r\n\r\n\"You can't appreciate Shakespeare
    until you've read him in the original Klingon.\"\r\nGeneral Chang"
  created: '2010-10-10 21:16:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>While the amount of fluent Klingon speakers in the world is small, the
    ones that do use this language will obviously appreciate the development. And,
    if you don't think Klingon is a serious language, consider that you can get Hamlet
    in Klingon.</em>\r\n\r\nHumans who study, read and write the Klingon language
    do so almost exclusively in a Latin script alphabet, not in the Klingon script.
    It was on this basis that the Klingon script was rejected for encoding in Unicode:
    there was no expressed desire or need from the user community."
  created: '2010-10-11 02:25:02'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> Humans who study, read and write the Klingon language do so almost exclusively
    in a Latin script alphabet, not in the Klingon script.\r\n\r\nOh snap.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I did find a nice interpretation of Klingon....\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/blog/typotheque_fonts_now_support_klingon\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    it was posted on April 1st"
  created: '2010-10-11 03:40:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John> I don't see zooming as an adequate solution to screen legibility issues.\r\n\r\ncomputerized
    zooming and human zooming are the most popular means of changing the font size
    now for over 2000 years, good luck!\r\n\r\nJohn> ...the answer has to be adaptive
    layout that is sensitive to locale settings and language of everything\r\n\r\n...but
    not adaptive, or adaptive enough fonts.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-10-11 13:34:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n>>Rich: ...what's the best that can be done for now? In bulk.
    Quickly.\r\n\r\n>Not good enough.\r\n\r\nIt's gotta be and besides, it will be.
    But that doesn't mean there shouldn't levels.\r\nThere is the mass-produced and
    the hand-tailored. Remember, too, that a large part of the market using Mac-iPhone-iPad/Quartz
    aren't going to see the results anyway no matter how hard anybody slaves away.\r\n\r\nI've
    been spending a lot of time in FontLab over the past month and one of the things
    I focused on was learning to manually hint. The documentation - which I've read
    over and over - isn't bad. I've gotten info from other sources too - whatever
    I could find. But I have to assume something's missing because my brain remains
    unpenetrated. I'm still largely mystified by the results I get.\r\nBut that's
    OK, because it at least answered the question for me: \"How accessible is this
    stuff?\"\r\nI've put it aside and will revisit - much else to do with bigger payoffs.\r\n\r\nAt
    this point, I would imagine MSFT sees it as against their own interest to start
    offering more intuitive font-creation tools. They can get what they need from
    the existing pool of cogniscenti familiar with their ways, and that's that. Why
    get more people involved - to create better quality fonts for Google and Sun to
    wield as hatchets as they <a href=\"http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/21/technology/21soft.html?_r=1&hp\">chip
    away</a> at MS Office? I don't think so.\r\n\r\n>I don't see zooming as an adequate
    solution to screen legibility issues.\r\n\r\nZoom, zoom, zoom. Interestingly,
    it has gone completely unremarked anywhere as far as I know that IE9 has done
    away with IE's Text Size menu. Gone *and* instantly forgotten. Resizing text independently
    of the surrounding content is now totally in the realm of on-page JavaScript widgets.
    [A+] [A-]\r\nI'd rather have seen a Text Only resize/reflow remain in the browser
    chrome but these days on mobile platforms there's nowhere in the chrome to put
    the feature. And there's no spec that allows you to detect - cross browser/cross
    platform - when the user zooms so as to present an alternative. (I've done a lot
    of work on this - to completely no avail.)\r\nSo here we are, paddling on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-23 16:03:54'
date: '2010-10-02 12:24:01'
title: If you thought Windows rasterizing was complicated ...

---
