---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hey everybody,\r\n\r\nI'm currently developping a typeface called expletus
  sans, which is also (an older version) in the critique section. Spme how the stem
  of the r seems to thick. It's not a rendering issue, because it occurs at all sizes
  and prints. It really is the right width. I've opended severla typefaces in Typetool
  and none of them had a thinner stem in the r. Is my eye acting weird, or am I making
  a mistake here?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletuspict_4139.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>am I making a mistake here?</em>\r\n\r\nYes: in English, the adverb meaning
    \"excessively\" is spelled \"too\"; otherwise, the stem of the r seems fine."
  created: '2010-10-02 19:09:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "It looks heavier because the curves going into the top of the stem are slightly
    heavier than anything similar happening elsewhere in the font. If you slightly
    lighten the left side of the notch in the top of <b>r</b> it should appear to
    have the same weight as the top of p. But this is a very minor detail, you\u2019re
    probably the only person who will see it, and compensating for it might just create
    a light spot, so be careful if you try to change it. This kind of thing is pops
    up here in there in most type, and it isn\u2019t necessarily wrong or undesirable,
    so don\u2019t overthink it."
  created: '2010-10-02 19:22:16'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I just noticed the same thing in t, a and f, so it probably has to do something
    with the bend at the end of the straight line.
  created: '2010-10-02 20:06:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Because of the intersections strokes/stems in a, e, f, t, f, \u0153 and \xE6
    normally need to be a little thinner, and significantly thinner in heavy type.
    I don\u2019t see it as being much of a problem here because your horizontal crossbars
    are rather light and don\u2019t connect, which eliminates the extra heaviness
    that normally occurs. If you open up a well-constructed font and start measuring
    stems you\u2019ll find this stuff all over the place."
  created: '2010-10-02 20:15:08'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks guys. Maybe I'm exaggerating a bit here, but I really want this typeface
    to be perfect in balance, since it's mainly a learning project. Could it be that
    the note with the (ugly) arrow next to it should be moved up?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tpict_5913.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-02 20:18:53'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "never mind. I've tried it and it doesn't make a difference.\r\n@ Dunwich:
    Are you suggesting to make the intersections/stems thinner or not? Does 'this
    stuff' mean 'small differences in stem thickness for optical illusions'?"
  created: '2010-10-02 20:24:45'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Are you suggesting to make the intersections/stems thinner or not?</cite>\r\n\r\nTry
    it and see. I can\u2019t see your font in print, so I don\u2019t know how it really
    looks.\r\n\r\n<cite>Does 'this stuff' mean 'small differences in stem thickness
    for optical illusions'?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. Type design is the art of tricking
    eyes and brains into seeing what you want it to see as opposed to what it has
    evolved to see."
  created: '2010-10-02 21:26:09'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "For me, working on my font project, I ran into these things all the time...
    I would find a letter that looked too dark or light, even though it was the same
    as others mathematically, and then go into other fonts and realize they have accounted
    for what's apparently a common optical problem.\r\n\r\nAlso, DTF, when you say,
    \"Type design is the art of tricking eyes and brains into seeing what you want
    it to see as opposed to what it has evolved to see.\" Wouldn't \"Type design is
    the art of tricking eyes and brains into seeing what's really there as opposed
    to what it has learned to see.\" make more sense?"
  created: '2010-10-03 03:25:54'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Hello\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-03 03:43:53'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "You should think about those spaces in-between and between those glyphs.
    \r\n\r\nAnd then you should think about those glyphs: your 'o' is too square when
    compared to 'c' 'a' and 'g', which has way too square lower part. And have you
    compared your 'a' and 'e'? Hmmm\u2026 And your 'z' is way too narrow."
  created: '2010-10-03 03:56:57'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>ouldn't \"Type design is the art of tricking eyes and brains into seeing
    what's really there as opposed to what it has learned to see.\" make more sense?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo.
    If people have to see what\u2019s really there they have to stop reading and start
    thinking about the letters. What you want them to do is not see all of the weird
    stuff you have to do to make a font work and just read."
  created: '2010-10-03 05:36:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Are you sure the contour direction of the r is correct?
  created: '2010-10-03 13:31:55'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "@brian: thanks. I'll have acloser look at stem thickness in the future. btw:
    I'm using myriad pro to compare it to. Is that a good choice?\r\n\r\n@Tomi: \r\n-
    \"You should think about those spaces in-between and between those glyphs.\" Your
    talking about spacing and the whitespace inside a glyph, right? If so, I haven't
    paid much attention to spacing yet. \r\n- \"your 'o' is too square when compared
    to 'c' 'a' and 'g', which has way too square lower part.\" The left side of the
    c is identical to the left side of the o, but I'll make both a bit rounder. The
    lower part of the g doesn't look squarish to me at all. \r\n- \"And have you compared
    your 'a' and 'e'? Hmmm\u2026 And your 'z' is way too narrow.\" ofcoarse I've compared
    the a and e, but obviously not in the right way. What am I missing? My z is indeed
    quite narrow, but it doesn't look to dark to me and I like the way it looks.\r\n\r\n@dberlow:
    yes I am.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-03 16:43:19'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: thanks for your comments so far everybody. It's already been of great help.
  created: '2010-10-03 17:02:44'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Myriad is a good font to compare with, but I wouldn't limit myself to a single
    font to learn from. Also try Franklin Gothic, News Gothic, or Calibre - or all
    of them.
  created: '2010-10-03 22:41:03'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's an update. I've used centro sans as a comparison. The stems of r,
    f and t are 5 (pnts?) thinner. Also many other glyps have been  changed. I hope
    this is an improvement.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletuspict_4414.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-04 13:53:57'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: 'I think that''s an improvement. Some quick things: the j dot needs to be
    larger than the i dot. Right now it looks too small. The z is also a bit pointy,
    and you might consider joining the diagonal strokes of the k to be more like <.
    You might try moving the break in the g to the right a little. The d, b, and p
    look a little too open. Looking good otherwise. Make the uppercase!'
  created: '2010-10-04 17:04:05'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"the j dot needs to be larger than the i dot\"</cite>\r\n? Why should
    that be?\r\n\r\nThat \"r\" looks potentially too thin to me now, but it's really
    hard to say by staring at a bitmap image.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-04 18:22:58'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "@brian: I think the j dot is fine. I've never seen a typeface with a larger
    dot on the j. It's probabaly just a rendering issue. The z is a bit pointy indeed,
    but I like it. I might just make it curve a little bit at the ends. I can't make
    the k more like < because than the gap looks ugly, and I don't think it looks
    ugly now. \"You might try moving the break in the g to the right a little.\" What
    do you mean by 'the break'? \"The d, b, and p look a little too open.\" I don't
    really get this. You think the gap should be smaller or something else? \"Looking
    good otherwise. Make the uppercase!\" Thanks! I have already made uppercase, as
    you can see in the critique section, but I'm completely redrawing them. I'll make
    an upload including uppercase and numerals in a few days, I hope.\r\n\r\nThanks
    alot for your help!\r\n\r\n@nina: \"That \"r\" looks potentially too thin to me
    now, but it's really hard to say by staring at a bitmap image.\" True, I'll add
    a pdf for the next update and have a look at some more prints myself. Thanks for
    your help."
  created: '2010-10-04 19:41:05'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Optically, the dot of the j usually needs to be slightly larger to account
    for  the descender. When looking at a j with an i directly next to it, where the
    dots are the same size, the j appears to have a smaller dot, even though they
    are exactly the same. It's mentioned in Karen Cheng's <em>Designing Type</em>,
    I believe.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, finding fonts that I have which do this seems
    to have been a bit difficult. Some fonts that do: IM Fell French Canon, High Tower
    Text, Monotype Garamond, Adobe Caslon Pro. Surprisingly, some fonts actually do
    the opposite, this is especially true of italics. Example: Monotype Garamond Italic.\r\n\r\nIn
    my example below, I also have included fonts that I had thought would have accounted
    for this, but didn't: Century Old Style, Minion Pro, Myriad Pro, FF Scala, Hoefler
    Text, Futura.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ijdots_5137.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    is a very interesting study, I think. Although you may not need to change the
    size....\r\n\r\nRegarding the d, b, and p being too open, I meant that, in comparison
    to the <strong>o</strong>, they look a bit too wide, or the counters look too
    large."
  created: '2010-10-04 20:40:58'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Interesting. I noticed it in Caslon too. OTOH in this case, we're looking
    at a rather display-ish sans \u2013 where things would be more regularized generally
    than in a classic text face. I haven't yet found any examples in this genre, although
    I admit I haven't been looking very hard.\r\nBTW, looking at the horizontal position
    of the tittle in the \"i\" would make me reconsider using Adobe Caslon as a tittle
    reference. :-)"
  created: '2010-10-04 21:33:06'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Actually, the only sans I could find that compensated for that optical illusion
    was Arial - the dot of the j was slightly taller than the dot of the i. But it
    was almost unnoticeable.\r\n\r\nThe positioning on Adobe Caslon certainly is interesting,
    it seems to center on the serif instead of the stem."
  created: '2010-10-04 22:55:15'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "@brian: Wow! you really took your time for this. I'll make a test print to
    see if the tittle on the j needs to be a bit larger. It does look to small to
    me right now, but it might just be a rendering issue.\r\n\r\n@nina: Caslon is
    a very old, but still succesfull typeface, so it must be good. ADOBE Caslon is
    often said to miss the true characteristics of Caslon, though I don't see it.
    Caslon in general -I think there are over ten different productions of Caslon.-
    looks out of balance to me. I know a true textface often looks weird at display
    sizes, but Caslon still doesn't look good to me at text sizes. For example: I
    think the top serif in the i looks too much different from the bottom serifs,
    which are (almost) slab serifs."
  created: '2010-10-05 08:34:44'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Many thanks for a very fun lesson so far!
  created: '2010-10-05 08:35:40'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "For the logic of the design, shouldn't your 'r' be like this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletuspict_4414_6730.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-05 12:34:06'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Your a far better and more experienced designer than I am, but I can't change
    something only because you say it's better without actually agreeing with it myself.
    There are many typefaces where the r is simply a cut off n, but this doesn't look
    right to me. This may not sound very logical, but I think the r should be more
    like a cut off p without descender. To be honest I haven't tried your r in a word,
    so I'll give it a go, but I think I'll hold on to my own. Furthermore, I've read
    and fully agree with this: http://www.typeworkshop.com/index.php?id1=type-basics&id2=&id3=&id4=&id5=&idpic=17#pictloader\r\n\r\nThe
    way they explain it, clearly wont work for my n. My conclusion is that the r should
    be seen as a glyph to be designed the way it looks best, disregarding the 'logic'
    of the design. If you still want to convince me otherwise, please do so. I'm always
    willing to learn. I'll upload a comparison of the two r's in a word today. "
  created: '2010-10-05 13:06:09'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's a comparison. 'Your' r does give it a slightly more 'display' feeling,
    but I think I'll stick with the original and make 'your' r an alternate option.
    Don't mind the spacing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rpict_5457.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-05 13:23:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "b.skywalker> When looking at a j with an i directly next to it, where the
    dots are the same size, the j appears to have a smaller dot, even though they
    are exactly the same.\r\n\r\nI see no such effect as you state. \r\n\r\nI believe
    you show serif designs with irregularities of dot placement in the service of
    \"oldness\", not serving optical size correction.\r\n\r\nThe fact that it's hard
    to find in sans is because sans is usually designed for \"newness\", and since
    there is no optical correction to do, the dots end up the same. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-05 14:25:30'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '@dberlow: I do see the effect brian states, and I''ll correct it. It might
    be true to a certain extend that some of the details in serif typefaces are due
    to irregularities in the service of ''oldness'', but I clearly see in my typeface
    that the dot of the j optically looks smaller.'
  created: '2010-10-05 15:22:29'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Another issue that clouds the view is the fact that in the abc-representation
    your r is next to s, which has a somewhat excessive overshoot (the amount of intrusion
    below the baseline, necessary to balance the curved parts) which could be a pixelation
    thing. To me it now looks like the stem of the r is too short, which is not true
    of course. \r\nMaybe you should use a row like nrirmrhr etc. first to settle the
    stem width problem and then look into the relation of the r with curved glyphs
    is a row like rorsurer etc.\r\n\r\nJust my 2 cts. (I am very impressed with what
    you have done)"
  created: '2010-10-05 16:05:50'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "1996type, how are you following the example on typeworkshop.com by making
    a cut off p?? The version of the r Tomi from Soumi presented follows that much
    better. Typeworkshop didn't recommend <em>not</em> making your r from an n, they
    recommended rotating the whitespace above the join of the n, and following that
    for the whitespace above the join of the r. The idea, of course, wasn't to follow
    this extremely strictly, but was to demonstrate a way to make a more balanced
    r.\r\n\r\nLike this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/r_4938.png]\r\n\r\n-
    Start with an an\r\n- Chop it off\r\n- Fix the end of the r\r\n- rotate the shape
    of the whitespace\r\nAnd you now have a balanced lowercase r!\r\n\r\nThe final
    example show that isn't the only way to make a fairly balanced r (this form is
    used in many classical serifs, and in some sans serifs), although the fourth example
    is slightly more balanced in this case. What you use, in my opinion, should depend
    on the design of the typeface. While you do sometimes need to sacrifice the logic
    of a design to make a more readable letter, sometimes you also need to sacrifice
    certain things about a letter to make a cohesive design. In this case, the letter
    r will not lose any readability, and in your design, this new r is more balanced
    than your previous design."
  created: '2010-10-05 16:33:31'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "@bert: The overshoot in the s is indeed to much. I'll have another look at
    it.\r\n@brian: \"how are you following the example on typeworkshop.com by making
    a cut off p??\" Ok I have to admit that usually the r is more like a cut off n
    than p, but the 'normal' r looks much more like a cut off p from expletus than
    an n from expletus. \"and in your design, this new r is more balanced than your
    previous design.\" I doubt that, and it's certainly much less legible. I don't
    believe (disregarding the 'logic' of the design) that the original r looks less
    balanced than the one tomi suggested and it's more legible. You may think otherwise
    and your welcome to try to concinvince me, but don't try to convince me with things
    about what is 'logical' or 'usual'. I think the main point of typeworkshop.com
    is that the arm of the r should meet the stem at a lower spot than the n which
    is what I agree with. Tomi's suggestion doesn't do this, and the original does.\r\n\r\nI
    do realise I was very unclear in my previous comment, but my opinion remains unchanged.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-05 18:10:41'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's the update! Uppercase, lowercase, numerals, and more. To judge it
    properly I suggest you download and print the pdf from here: http://www.typophile.com/node/72368\r\n\r\nHope
    you like it!"
  created: '2010-10-05 18:35:52'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "It's looking very good.\r\n\r\nI should note that the reason that's recommended
    on typeworkshop is to make the letter more even, and help account for the large
    gap to the right. It's not to add legibility. Most fonts don't join much lower
    (slightly lower is usually necessary optically, and much lower helps the whitespace)
    and are very legible. But joining lower definitely helps with whitespace, and
    it was my decision for Neuton to do it the way recommended on TWS. But in some
    cases a high join is much better, it all depends on the font.\r\n\r\nScala, Fago,
    IM Fell, and some of Fred Smeijers' fonts, have an r which actually joins <em>higher</em>
    than the n (unfortunately I don't have any of Smeijers' fonts at the moment).
    Most fonts actually don't change the join at all, and many join lower, some very
    exaggerated like Chaparral.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rnjoin_4045.png]"
  created: '2010-10-06 03:13:45'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: Nice way of comparing fonts Brian!
  created: '2010-10-06 05:47:52'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks Brian. I have made the (joint?) a little thinner where it meeets the
    stem, but kept the shape the same. I'll upload it soon. Neuton looks good, even
    though it's just two glyphs.
  created: '2010-10-06 09:48:59'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Thanks.\r\n\r\nFor some links on Neuton:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/68311
    Original thread\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/74121 The italics\r\nhttp://code.google.com/webfonts/family?family=Neuton#specimen
    more recent version of the regular\r\n\r\n\r\nLooking forward to your improved
    r btw."
  created: '2010-10-06 14:41:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Brian, I think the reason for the larger dot on the j in Adobe Caslon is
    that the head serif on the \"j\" is larger than the head serif on the \"i\". The
    larger dot is to match the larger head serif. \r\n\r\nThe larger head serif I
    think is, in turn, to deal with the different shape of the \"j\"\u2014the white
    space opened up by absence of foot serifs, and the bulb to the left. This is partly
    an \"old style\" thing, I think--and can be a good one. \r\n\r\nIn my Williams
    Caslon Text, I made the j dot also larger, for the same reasons, but only slightly,
    as my j has only a slightly larger head serif, though quite a different shape.
    Also my feeling was that when the difference is too marked it looks a little irregular
    and antique, which I didn't want.\r\n\r\nIn a sans, there is no reason for a larger
    dot, as there is no head serif.   "
  created: '2010-10-06 15:53:53'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Interesting, that does make sense, to an extent. Although, I distinctly remember
    something about this in Cheng's Designing Type? Anyone have that book? (I got
    it out on interlibrary loan a few months ago)
  created: '2010-10-06 18:27:12'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I have the book. I'm not seeing this under either serif or sans serif \"i\"/\"j\",
    \r\nbut I may have overlooked something. \r\nAnyway, just because it's in a book
    doesn't make it true :-)  \r\nAnd Cheng's book isn't free from criticism anyway
    from what I gather.\r\n\r\nWilliam: Thanks for that explanation!"
  created: '2010-10-06 18:32:47'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> just because it's in a book doesn't make it true :-)\r\n\r\nYou got a point
    there! :)"
  created: '2010-10-06 19:12:49'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: This all sounds very logical, but the dot on the j in expletus does look smaller
    to my eye than the dot on the i, so I've corrected it.
  created: '2010-10-06 20:24:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rn_5181.png]\r\nGill and Century have
    always struck me as having a most pronounced difference between the structure
    of r and n."
  created: '2010-10-06 22:03:37'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: '@1996type, I see the j dot being smaller also, but from what I can tell,
    it''s not usually necessary to make an adjustment; although in certain weights
    or font style, I think it my become unnecessary entirely - for instance in an
    ultra bold.'
  created: '2010-10-06 23:34:31'
date: '2010-10-02 18:55:49'
title: Stem of r to thick?

---
