---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "Version 1: [[http://www.typophile.com/node/46452|Your latest designs?]]\r\n\r\nTypophiles,
  would you care to post your latest typefaces (and perhaps some soon to arrive)?
  I'm looking to expand my toolbox in no particular direction.\r\n\r\n\u2026\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s
  what I\u2019m working on:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/noir_6298.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "And this: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modern_5574.png]\r\n(but
    there\u2019s a lot of unsolved problems)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modern2_3511.png]"
  created: '2010-10-06 16:40:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's a question: is overshoot really necessary for an Ultra-Thin weight?\r\nAnd
    if it is, why not overshoot eg the stem of \"I\", but not the bottom of \"E\"?"
  created: '2010-10-06 17:12:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Ask me when I\u2019m finished."
  created: '2010-10-06 18:13:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NAMEDJOE_5368.gif]\r\nA revival project,
    made into a layered font. Just in the beginning stages."
  created: '2010-10-06 20:01:49'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: So many interesting projects, fellows! I am shamed to show my next fonts,
    but, here are anyway.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta next releases_6004.png]
  created: '2010-10-06 20:06:41'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Passage_Modern_5029.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Passage_Modern2_5837.png]\r\n\r\nAs
    a part of:\r\n[[http://typophile.com/tracker/44424]]"
  created: '2010-10-06 20:41:52'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: Frode, two interesting projects. I like more the second, because yours art-nouveau
    curves
  created: '2010-10-06 20:43:41'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Working on Calluna Sans at the moment:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calluna_sans_6463.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    also on these untitled ones:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled_gothic_4265.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled_serif_3633.png]\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nLovely
    work, Frode!"
  created: '2010-10-07 08:36:36'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I\u2019m looking forward to Pieter\u2019s contributions. "
  created: '2010-10-07 08:48:02'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Wow!\r\n\r\nI really like your stuff Frode, looking forward to it.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Jos, that looks brilliant, Calluna sans! great stuff! I'm looking forward to all
    of them!"
  created: '2010-10-07 12:39:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I like that rectangular gothic, Jos!
  created: '2010-10-07 14:12:15'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: tourdeforce- Love the numbers... full of humour.
  created: '2010-10-07 14:54:32'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: Thanks Jeffrey & Craig!
  created: '2010-10-07 14:57:58'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Calluna Sans looks amazing, Jos. I only hope you'll reconsider that Q. Is
    this pre-Igino Marini spacing, btw?
  created: '2010-10-07 15:03:56'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "I have a few on the go, but I'm trying to concentrate on this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TextTwoSample_5159.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone wants to critique: http://typophile.com/node/74929"
  created: '2010-10-07 15:27:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "This is turning into a very beautiful page. I hope I'm not making it ugly.
    \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/72368\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletus-sans-advert_4975.jpg]\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/72505\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/expletus-serif-advert_6339.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-07 15:57:43'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Frode, I'll consider it, but I want to stay as close to the serif as I can.
    Igino did a pre-run so I could determin the weight of the sans and also spot weak
    spots in character shapes more easily. It still has to be spaced and kerned.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calluna_and_sans_4291.png]"
  created: '2010-10-07 16:15:51'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "I am almost done wrapping this one up. It should have over 700 glyphs when
    finished. Possibly more. This sample is a rough. I have fixed the serifs and other
    nuisances.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMAG005_3925.JPG]"
  created: '2010-10-07 16:32:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Frode - haven't you been working on that top one for a while? I seem to recall
    it from somewhere. Both are coming along nicely.\r\n\r\nLove that serif Jos.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a couple of mine I'm working on simultaneously. After my last script Olicana written
    with a steel nib and ink I thought I'd go more up-to-date with a Ball Pentel,
    but still with the mostly connected feel. I hope to achieve the authentic handwritten
    look of Olicana with this one, and maybe Rough and Smooth also. As for the Didone
    I wanted to do something with a bit more character than most in that genre.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rol_3941.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/camb4_5393.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-07 16:36:56'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "Nice that the more people are showing what are they doing.\r\nAlmost seemed
    like a lot of visitors to Typohile just like to read topics (which is totally
    fine) and less to work :)"
  created: '2010-10-07 16:43:20'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Yes, I'm just slow.
  created: '2010-10-07 17:19:04'
- author:
    name: claaspb
    picture: 111377
  body: "here's mine then... number one started as a signage font specifically for
    sand-cast metal signs, the other one is just some free play inspired by a 20's
    magazine cover. both still have loads of problems, obviously....  might put them
    up in the critique forum when i've gotten a bit further :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1-01_small_6652.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1-02_small_5677.png]"
  created: '2010-10-07 17:48:40'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Jos: Don\u2019t know why, but Calluna Sans reminds me of Scala Sans, which
    I don\u2019t like so much.\r\n\r\nI add also a comment on Calluna, which I am
    using at work. The typeface seems to be more comfortable when used in bigger sizes
    (18 points and more). At text sizes, I think it would need specific-designed version,
    accordingly spaced, and some of its details revised.\r\n\r\nAs a display face
    the Light weight is among the more useful, so I think it should have a corresponding
    Italic, useful to set headlines with emphasis on certain words.\r\n\r\nAs a final
    note: I am entirely in disagreement with Igino\u2019s idea about \"automatic kerning\"
    (maybe it\u2019s because we are both italian? :-) ). In fact, most of the problems
    I have found with Calluna (and some of the previous Open Source faces like Fertigo)
    is with spacing and kerning. To me, spacing is at times even more important than
    the forms itself, it\u2019s part of the life of an alphabet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 22:36:37'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "Some I'm working on all in drawing stage:\r\nBodoni like all-caps with Avant
    Garde style ligatures\r\nVictorian storybook kind of thing\r\nSpirally black stub
    serif\r\nModular poster font\r\ncasual signage script\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontsinprogress_5502.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-08 02:47:34'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "Thanks, NIck! Your script has the same beautiful resoluteness as Olicana.
    I like it!\r\n\r\n-\r\n\r\npiccic, Calluna Sans is made from Calluna and I like
    it. Any resemblance with Scala Sans is not intentional. I feel sorry for you that
    you have to use Calluna at work. It <cite>is</cite> optimized for text use at
    about 11 points. Besides that I still haven't encontered \"most of the problems\"
    you have \u2013and I've read through three books set in Calluna\u2013 but thanks
    for the spacing koan."
  created: '2010-10-08 07:44:55'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Hi, \r\n\r\nHere is my forthcoming stuff for VTF (www.vtf.fadebiaye.com):\r\n\r\nVTF
    Coqnegre Raisonne\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coqnegre_raisonne_prev_5691.png]\r\n\r\nVTF
    Clubber Lang\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/clubber_lang_witz_prev_3689.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    the latest VTF release: VTF Coqnegre Turismo (freely available here: www.fadebiaye.com/type/coqnegre_turismo)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coqnegre_turismo_prev_5917.png]\r\n\r\nGreat
    job, y\u2019all! Special mention to Nick and Frodo!"
  created: '2010-10-08 10:23:51'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Well Frode, I can only show you this one:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stanley-three-d_5200.gif]\r\n\r\nA
    multi-layer version of Stanley with a lot of \u2018fills\u2019. You see the (one
    of the) striping fills here.\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2010-10-08 11:41:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "\"I feel sorry for you that you have to use Calluna at work.\"\r\n\r\nWhy?
    It\u2019s been me that used it for a comp and made my boss buy the license.\r\nI
    made these observations since I have been using it (so far) mostly for pints sizes
    in the range 14-24, on pakaging graphics, but not in text sizes.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    my reference to Scala was just incidental. I did not imply you were making references
    to it. I just meant that I don\u2019t like Scala Sans, and so I\u2019m not so
    crazy about Calluna Sans either.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant, mostly, about the design
    features of the Serif, is that to me they seem to become redundant or strange
    in smaller text sizes. But as you said, you should have a full book set with it
    to look at.\r\nIn general, if it was intended for book usage, I think it is too
    tightly spaced.\r\n\r\nAnd my comments on iKern are about how you consider spacing,
    not specifically addressing your use of it. I would never space or kern automatically.
    Space is a basic part of the design process, as I imply by observing that most
    of today \"text types\" are so tightly set that are \"suffocating\" in some way\u2026
    :-)"
  created: '2010-10-08 14:46:26'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Nice work, Frode-\r\n\r\nThese are some of my fonts currently under construction.
    But it's always possible that I just abandon one design, after coming up with
    a new one. There is lots of fonts in the back burner, waiting to become interesting
    again.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Suomi_5794.png]"
  created: '2010-10-08 22:55:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuoVadis_ImageTitles_4933.png]'
  created: '2010-10-09 09:03:25'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "<cite>I made these observations since I have been using it (so far) mostly
    for pints sizes in the range 14-24, on pakaging graphics, but not in text sizes.</cite>\r\n\r\npiccic,
    I think it's weird to comment on Calluna's text performance while only having
    it used from 14 pt up. The spacing is indeed tight, but that was my deliberate
    choice. You can always add a little.\r\n\r\nAbout iKern: I absolutely don't mind
    that you will never use automated spacing & kerning and also not that you are
    entirely in disagreement with the idea behind it, but since you are implying that
    with using iKern I didn't consider spacing as a part of my design (process), I
    don't think you have any clue how I used iKern in the design process of Calluna. "
  created: '2010-10-09 10:44:24'
- author:
    name: "David Waschb\xFCsch"
    picture: 118940
  body: "Here are some of my projects. The first one is an almost finished monospaced
    font. Just have to do some more weights & finishing the italics. The second one
    is a corporate font at its very first days. Feedback welcome.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/promo01_5446.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gothic_5191.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-09 11:20:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Here''s my latest font, so far untitled. I thought I should try non-Latin
    glyphs: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Argon588_6521.gif]'
  created: '2010-10-09 20:55:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Romantic-type_5697.jpg]'
  created: '2010-10-09 23:51:55'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Chris... what you need for that picture is a hair flourish coming down the
    center of your forehead just like the flourish on the V. \r\n\r\nSorry I could
    not resist :-)\r\n\r\nHere is a bit of my new one.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LUCY_6454.png]"
  created: '2010-10-10 01:05:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...a hair flourish coming down the center of your forehead\"\r\n\r\nI would
    if I could but you can't grow watermellon in the Sahara :-)"
  created: '2010-10-10 02:12:17'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Nick Cooke that Didone you have going is delicious! Everyone else has some
    incredible stuff too! Amazing \"Argon\" sans there bendy!\r\n\r\nI'm working on
    a few things...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/neu_fat_s-2010_6126.10.8.png]\r\nSee
    if you can make anything out of this s\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/neu_g_6626.png]\r\nthe
    lowercase g from neuton\r\ndafont.com/neuton.font\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alpinetext_6546.png]\r\n\"Alpine\"
    (for now...)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zut_4718.png]\r\n\"Z\xFAt\""
  created: '2010-10-10 06:01:19'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "Leaving our computers during this week - Oblik Classic.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OblikClassic_Typophile_5922.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-10 17:45:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris (dezcom),\r\n\r\nSorry, but I'm not reading that letter in QUO VADIS
    as a D. Maybe I've been designing too many IPA fonts over the past few years,
    but that is distractingly like a turned Latin alpha: \u0252"
  created: '2010-10-11 03:49:19'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: WOW EVERYBODY!
  created: '2010-10-11 08:48:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: Thanks Brian, that S has similar characteristics to Klimax, good luck on making
    it work for the rest. I like the feel of neuton.
  created: '2010-10-11 10:52:42'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Thanks Nick.
  created: '2010-10-11 13:37:40'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Great work!
  created: '2010-10-11 13:54:44'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "After four-and-a-half years of being on Typophile, I finally have something
    to post. Below is a nearly upright version of Fournier's cicero italic. This is
    all I've drawn so far, but I'll have finished the basic character set by the end
    of the semester.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poetique Oct 11_3945.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-11 20:40:26'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "I really like Bendy's \"Argon\".\r\nLooks really modern."
  created: '2010-10-11 20:53:06'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I was hoping for some samples of Erminio, Pieter.
  created: '2010-10-11 23:32:55'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Old one, but still under way (CAPS only):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/12_5585.png]\r\nand
    text face: http://typophile.com/node/73413\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/11_3457.png]"
  created: '2010-10-12 00:09:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, John. I will soon tell the story of that font and the D in particular.
    Tell me more about the Latin alpha? I don't think I have seen one before.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-10-12 00:15:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Another couple in development:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/White-Noise_6115.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gecko_3669.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    have about eight on the go...need to figure out how to complete some of them!"
  created: '2010-10-12 01:05:28'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: Nice, maybe you can get Geico to commission your finishing Gecko :)
  created: '2010-10-12 01:26:59'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Partial set of symbols from an unnamed font under development:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/symbols_3606.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-12 19:08:03'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: I like those Igor, could you keep me (and us) posted on its development? Nice
    stuff!
  created: '2010-10-13 08:29:16'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Sorry Frode\u2026 ;)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/erminio_5123.gif]\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2010-10-13 13:15:40'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: 'Great thread. There''s some exciting stuff here. '
  created: '2010-10-13 13:16:47'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "@Jos: I used Calluna in both text sizes and display sizes, otherwise I would
    not have commented. And for the spacing, if they are meant as text sizes, the
    space is too tight, especially if you go below 10pt.\r\nIf you like tight spacing,
    it\u2019s because you consider ideal printing conditions. Since I don\u2019t like
    to think about printing systems, but reason in terms of sizes, I tend to look
    at the less favorable conditions, both on paper and on screen. If it is a text-intensive
    aimed face, of course.\r\n\r\nAnd about iKern I was commenting on the concept
    in itself, of course I don\u2019t know how you use it in your design process.
    What I meant is simply that I would never use an automatic spacing feature, to
    any degree, that\u2019s all."
  created: '2010-10-26 12:55:14'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "as you probably know by now Frode, still excitedly awaiting Noir's completion...\r\n\r\nwhat
    a lovely gothic Jos! for some reason I think of eating salad when i see it.\r\n\r\nnever
    posted work here but here goes,\r\nthis is probably my 3rd type design attempt:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled_5029.jpg]\r\nheavily
    inspire by typefaces such as Empire and Corvinus (Versailles) and hence Giorgio
    too"
  created: '2010-10-28 15:32:52'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: I've been taking far too long of a break from font designing. I really need
    to finish what I started long ago, but if something new occurs to me, you all
    will be the first to know.
  created: '2010-10-29 08:55:37'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gofigure_modern_5362.png]\r\n\r\nvery
    much work in progress."
  created: '2010-11-03 14:03:42'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: '@neverblink - I think "v" in "victorian" is falling to the right side a little.
    Just my impression.'
  created: '2010-11-03 14:08:17'
- author:
    name: Neat Pete
    picture: 121087
  body: "Hi, this is my latest type project done for my friend.\r\nWhat do you guys
    think about it? \r\n\r\nPete\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/soaroe_fantomachine_3950.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-05 11:54:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Claudio! As a late reaction to <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/74955#comment-433050\">this</a>
    and <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/74955#comment-433143\">this</a> earlier
    post ...\r\n\r\nI think that taking a stance \"pro\" or \"con\" auto-spacing (or
    auto-anything for that matter) leads nowhere. What is more interesting is discussing
    spacing theories since it is them that determine results -- regardless of whether
    these theories are applied manually or automatically. In contrast to manual spacing
    which usually is \"just doing it\", automatic spacing is not possible without
    first having formulated a theory: a program is nothing but the representation
    of a theory, and is theory in action when run. As such it can be checked, refined,
    and even be replaced by another one.\r\nWhen discussing spacing results with Igino,
    the type designer needs to look at spacing not as a collection of pairs but as
    a system: It is not about adjusting this or that specific pair. Instead, making
    an adjusting here and there means changing one or more global parameters at Igino's
    end and thus making an adjustment there & there & there too. For Igino this means
    that he has to decide whether changing parameters (implicit in and anticipated
    by his theory) will do or whether he needs to rethink (part of) his program (and
    thus theory).\r\nIf it were a simple hand-over / push-button / get-result I too
    would consider auto-spacing as a quick-and-cheap way to get things done. It isn't.
    Automatic spacing a la iKern means playing with a theory and thus being aware
    of what one is doing -- an awareness which the \"gut feeling\" driven designer
    does not have."
  created: '2010-12-01 18:11:08'
date: '2010-10-06 16:25:26'
title: Your latest designs? v.2

---
