---
author:
  name: garyw
  picture: 110508
body: "I've been given text to typeset for a  bibliography and several of the entries
  end with a web address. \r\n\r\nAs an example, this is how the URL text has been
  supplied:\r\n\r\nBringhurst, Robert. <em>The Elements of Typographic Style.</em>
  Vancouver: Hartley and Marks, 1992, 1997.  http://www.TypographicStyle.com/.\r\n\r\n
  \ \r\n\r\nConsidering the accuracy of this <strong>academic</strong>  publication,
  is there any reason not to simplify the URL as:   \r\n\r\nBringhurst, Robert. <em>The
  Elements of Typographic Style.</em> Vancouver: Hartley and Marks, 1992, 1997.  www.typographicstyle.com\r\n\r\n(All
  lowercase, remove \"http://\", remove the ending \"/\", remove the period.)\r\n\r\n\r\nI
  also have several situations with text supplied as: \r\nhttp://www.Typographic%20Style.com\r\n\r\nIs
  it correct to replace the \"%20\" with a blank character space that it represents,
  or leave it as  \"www.typographic%20style.com\" ?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I would ask the project's author/editor if they are using a particular style
    guide, and if they are then ask how that style guide says to treat URL citations.\r\n\r\nI
    believe that most style guides call for the entire URL to be listed, with no punctuation
    after it, and in some cases the date that URL was accessed should also be listed
    prior to the URL. But in matters like this I always defer to the editor."
  created: '2010-10-07 02:26:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Can URL\u2019s contain spaces (or %20)? Be careful about removing and/or
    adding \u201Cwww\u201D, as some sites will not work without it and some sites
    will not work with it (ex: myblog.blogspot.com)."
  created: '2010-10-07 05:51:52'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "It's the \"http://\" that I am most interested in omitting, not \"www.\"
    Also using all lowercase.\r\n\r\nThe author has no idea and is looking for a recommendation.
    \ It looks and reads better without \"http://\", I just want to be sure it's okay
    to do so.  I think I'll talk with someone at my library reference desk and get
    their input."
  created: '2010-10-07 06:34:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: All lowercase is ok.
  created: '2010-10-07 06:45:55'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "No, it isn\u2019t."
  created: '2010-10-07 07:04:11'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Not?
  created: '2010-10-07 07:17:52'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "\xBBURLs in general are case-sensitive (with the exception of machine names).
    There may be URLs, or parts of URLs, where case doesn't matter, but identifying
    these may not be easy. Users should always consider that URLs are case-sensitive.\xAB\r\n\r\nhttp://www.w3.org/TR/WD-html40-970708/htmlweb.html\r\n\r\n*\r\n\r\nI
    think omitting the \xBBhttp://\xAB isn't a problem unless there are also URLs
    with other protocols, e.g starting with \xBBhttps://\xAB or \xBBftp://\xAB."
  created: '2010-10-07 10:53:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Regarding typesetting: IIRC at least in the German-speaking part of the world
    we have a convention that when a URL starts with \xABwww.\xBB, it's OK to omit
    the standard \xABhttp://\xBB protocol (because it will be sufficiently clear that
    [1] yes this is a URL and [2] that's where it starts, it can be entered into a
    browser like this); but if it starts with anything else, you should include the
    \xABhttp://\xBB to make it clearer.\r\n\r\nSo:\r\n\r\nBringhurst, Robert. The
    Elements of Typographic Style. Vancouver: Hartley and Marks, 1992, 1997. www.typographicstyle.com\r\n\r\nBringhurst,
    Robert. The Elements of Typographic Style. Vancouver: Hartley and Marks, 1992,
    1997. http://subdomain.typographicstyle.com\r\n\r\nI agree with Jens though that
    if there are URLs nearby using any other protocols, it's probably best to always
    cite the \xABhttp://\xBB so as to avoid ambiguity."
  created: '2010-10-07 11:53:20'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "And best to leave the \"%20\" in, rather than turning it back into a space.\r\n\r\nCase
    should copy whatever the site actually uses. I'm sure I heard somewhere that URLs
    for sites hosted on Unix servers are case-sensitive, while those on Windows servers
    are case-<strong>in</strong>sensitive, so you should preserve the case given,
    just to be on the safe side. \r\n\r\nThis has actually bitten our marketing dept.
    on the a** as they produced an advert with a subpage of our URL on it, and dropped
    it all to l/c. Several months later I spotted that the URL returned a 404 error
    when pasted into the browser ... but reinstating a non-obvious cap in the middle
    of it caused the page to load fine."
  created: '2010-10-07 15:14:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: It may boil down to what exactly you mean by "is it okay?"  From a functional
    standpoint, it's probably okay as long as none of the URLs begin with "https"
    or "ftp". But from a style standpoint, I think you'll find that the style guides
    say to spell it out in citations, to avoid any ambiguity.
  created: '2010-10-07 15:37:11'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "James, I guess the point of my original post is to ask <em>what are these
    style guides</em> on URLs that you mention ... and <em>where do I find them?</em>\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 19:03:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "The American Psychological Association publication guidelines say:\r\n\r\nAuthor,
    A. A. (1997). <em>Title of work</em>. Location, Publisher. Retrieved from http://www.xxxxxx\r\n\r\nDepending
    on what you are referencing (book, journal, presentation &c) the first portion
    will change, but for the most part, if there is a url, it ends with \"Retrieved
    from...\" case sensitive, include http://, and don't end it with a period. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I agree with James. When in doubt, ask the editor/publiser/boss if they have a
    convention in place."
  created: '2010-10-07 19:33:20'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> what are these style guides on URLs that \r\n> you mention ... and where
    do I find them?\r\n\r\nStyle guides are written guidelines on the preferred style
    to use in different writing situations. Most newspapers, magazines, and large
    organizations pick a style guide to use (or create their own).\r\n\r\nSome common
    ones are the Associated Press Style Book, the Chicago Manual of Style, the New
    York Times Manual of Style and Usage, and many others.  For medical-related writing
    the AMA Style Guide is often used. You mentioned it's an academic project and
    perhaps there's a style guide preferred by your university.\r\n\r\nGo to Amazon
    and search for \"style guide for writing\" and you'll find some, and your library
    will undoubtedly have some. Perhaps some are posted online, too.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 20:00:08'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "Domain names (including top level domains) are not case sensitive.\r\n\r\nEverything
    else in URLs on Unix/Linux machines is generally case sensitive.\r\n\r\nIf academic
    writing you have to follow the appropriate standard (APA, MLA, etc).\r\n\r\nThis
    is a good guide to APA\r\nhttp://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of type, I sometimes use loose tracking for URLs.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-07 22:10:18'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "For academic publications, yes, check with the editor. But if you're not
    having to follow a required style, I suggest deleting the \"http://\" (except
    in the situations already noted); I also suggest setting the URL in italics, to
    set it off clearly from the surrounding text. This is not a style that I've heard
    anyone else recommend; it's one that I've developed myself as a practical solution
    to designing and typesetting books. (It does depend on the typeface, of course;
    it calls for a good readable italic.)\r\n\r\nJohn\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-08 02:05:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "John \u2014 I\u2019ve also taken to setting URLs in italic, when feasible,
    to separate them from surrounding text. As you say, it\u2019s a practical aid."
  created: '2010-10-08 13:42:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: In many cases I'd suppose the narrower letters of italic help with the breaking
    issues, too.
  created: '2010-10-08 13:59:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ John and Kent: In academic publications specifically, would not italicizing
    urls interfere with visual search when scanning the references due to the fact
    that book titles or journal names use the same typographic cue? \r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I would consider italic urls to be a typographic heirarchy that is incongruent
    with the informational hierarchy resulting in increased time and decreased accuracy
    when searching for specific information in a references section.\r\n\r\nThis would
    actually make an interesting (and easily testable) experiment."
  created: '2010-10-08 16:16:13'
- author:
    name: neverblink
    picture: 113022
  body: I've never really figured out how to hyphenate an URL correctly. Would you
    use an hyphenation-mark as it could be misinterpreted as part of the URL?
  created: '2010-10-08 17:03:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@neverblinke: While it may create an uneven rag, the only logical conclusion
    to avoid the hyphen to be misinterpreted as part of the url would be to set it
    on it''s own line. Even then, it may be to long. In an electronic context, auto-detection
    should take care of it, in print I guess readers would have to go trial and error.
    An interesting point for consideration. Alternatives may include condensed typefaces,
    smaller point size or reduced inter-letter spacing.'
  created: '2010-10-08 17:20:46'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> Alternatives may include condensed typefaces, smaller point size or reduced
    inter-letter spacing.\r\n\r\nAnd what about just forgetting the hyphen and continue
    the URL on the next line?"
  created: '2010-10-08 17:26:17'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>And what about just forgetting the hyphen and continue the URL on the
    next line?</em>\r\n\r\nIIRC, that\u2019s what the German computer magazine c\u2019t
    does."
  created: '2010-10-08 18:18:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I stand corrected, and I\u2019m glad I do. It\u2019s always interesting to
    learn new stuff. I often use footnotes for URL\u2019s, and if I suspect very long
    ones I try to leave space for that. If you need to hyphenate, perhaps moving the
    hyphen down one line works better?\r\n\r\nmywebsite.com/my\r\n-sub-section/\r\n\r\ninstead
    of\r\nmywebsite.com/my-\r\nsub-section/\r\n\r\nThis brings up another argument.
    Many designers think underlines are bad in print, but I happen to think nothing
    signals a hyperlink better."
  created: '2010-10-08 18:23:12'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Cristobal: <cite>And what about just forgetting the hyphen and continue the
    URL on the next line?</cite> \r\nThat\u2019s the default behaviour of InDesign.\r\n\r\nFrode:
    <cite>Many designers think underlines are bad in print, but I happen to think
    nothing signals a hyperlink better.</cite>\r\nI tried, but my descenders weren\u2019t
    happy! ;-) (I\u2019m talking black & white)\r\n\r\nI often need to place URIs
    in notes and bibliographies (http://www.typophile.com/node/74680) and I have even
    considered to put up an URL shortening service just for it!\r\nTwo notes: it would
    be nice if http://www.example.com/ could be shortened to example.com, but too
    many websites haven\u2019t even configured the www-less domain.\r\nAbout italics,
    it\u2019s tempting, but, as Christopher rightly points out, it didn\u2019t work
    in references. My first instinct would be setting them in a monospaced font, but
    they would end up even longer! Maybe, with the right superfamily, they could be
    set in a light sans if the remaining text is set in a serif face.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-08 18:54:29'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>Many designers think underlines are bad in print, but I happen to think
    nothing signals a hyperlink better.\r\n\r\nBut what happens if the URL includes
    an underscore?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/URLunderscore01_4116.png]"
  created: '2010-10-08 19:00:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I don't think URLs should be hyphenated, as the reader might think the hyphen
    is part of the URL. \r\n\r\nIt's often possible to keep a URL on line line if
    you tinker with the paragraph's line breaks or tighten the tracking a tad.  But
    if breaking it is the only option, I break without a hyphen.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    in InDesign I always apply the \"no break\" attribute to URLs.  There are several
    ways to apply this attribute, but the method I use is to create a character style
    called \"URL\", set the style's attributes to include \"no break\", and then I
    apply that style to every URL.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-08 19:14:24'
- author:
    name: johndberry
    picture: 109524
  body: "The point is to make the URLs immediately recognizable as URLs, as well as
    to make them easily readable (since there is no live link; we're talking about
    print only, here), without ruining the typographic design and turning the whole
    page into a mess. That's one reason for shortening by eliminating the unnecessary
    \"http://\"; it's also an argument <em>against</em> tightening the tracking (always
    a bad idea anyway). And it might be an argument for avoiding justified setting
    in any text that's going to include URLs.\r\n\r\nI like italic precisely because
    it sets off the URL in much the same way it would set off a title; functionally,
    they are very much alike, within a run of text. (If you've got a lot of URLs in
    long text, you might want to use a typeface like FF Quadraat that has a particularly
    narrow yet readable italic.)\r\n\r\nA bunch of \"http://\"'s on a page are just
    visual noise, which gets in the way of both scanning and reading. Keep it simple,
    without losing meaning.\r\n\r\nJohn\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-08 19:44:05'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "re: breaking across line ends - the instructions I've given our typesetters,
    for URLs in references, are:\r\n<ol><li>Don't introduce hyphens;</li>\r\n<li>Try
    not to break at a hyphen that is actually part of the address, lest it <em>look
    like</em> you've introduced it;</li>\r\n<li>Break after a slash, underscore, question
    mark, or escaped character code (such as \"%20\"), or <em>before</em> a period
    (carrying the period over to the next line is sufficiently different-looking from
    normal sentence punctuation to make it perfectly clear the period is not signalling
    the end of the sentence/reference)</li>\r\n<li>If necessary, where a URL consists
    of words mashed together (thisisanexample.com) then break between those words.</li></ol>"
  created: '2010-10-08 20:07:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Does anybody put links in brackets, such as &#60; and &#62;? One issue I've
    faced is how to put a period at the end of a sentence that ends with a web address,
    without implying that the period is part of the address. Brackets solve that problem.
  created: '2010-10-08 21:00:45'
- author:
    name: forrest
    picture: 120197
  body: "In body text, the extra spacing is good - even letterspacing and/or a monospaced
    font or different font. \r\n\r\nThe logic of italics is good but the flavor does
    not seem right to me - too informal. \r\n\r\nAbsolutely no underlining - that
    not only looks bad but obscures any underscores in the URL. Absolutely no introduced
    hyphens.\r\n\r\nBrackets is a nice idea and I've seen it done well."
  created: '2010-10-08 21:39:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Riccardo: If you add a thin white stroke, descenders are no problem. An underline
    could easily lie below any underscores, and possible be coloured. '
  created: '2010-10-08 21:47:14'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "You can\u2019t put a space in a the domain name you are discussing. %20 is
    an encoded space and is an error. Remove it and don\u2019t look back.\r\n\r\nThose
    same domain names are case-insensitive; hostnames like <code>blog.</code> or <code>m.</code>
    or even <code>www.</code> are not necessarily case insensitive but almost always
    are. You do <em>not</em> have to act as though [single word].[top-level-domain]
    is ever case-sensitive despite what you are being told here.\r\n\r\nYou may <em>nonetheless</em>
    wish to use the capitalization in your example to improve readability.\r\n \r\nIn
    print you have no reason to include the protocol identifier <code>http://</code>,
    but if the text you are using will at any time be exported to an E-book, you trigger
    the problem of producing an URL that isn\u2019t usable online because you took
    the protocol identifier out. You can fix this manually, as I have done, but it\u2019s
    an extra step.\r\n\r\nEliason, less-than and greater-than are not \u201Cbrackets\u201D;
    there is no reason to delimit an URL in plain text unless some statistically improbable
    character immediately follows it, like maybe a plain hyphen-minus. \r\n\r\nMonospaced
    font (<em>not</em> Courier) can be nice for URLs in print.\r\n\r\nYou could just
    do what I have done and call it a day, since my way is correct. I can send you
    examples."
  created: '2010-10-08 21:59:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: It's true that Letter Gothic is a nice typeface for an URL in print, but then
    emphasizing an URL by the use of an ordinary sans-serif typeface is also a possibility.
    Of course, in that case (unless you have Bell Gothic available!) there could be
    ambiguities in distinguishing some characters.
  created: '2010-10-09 21:59:51'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Reviving this old thread with a question: Is it OK to use a service like
    Tiny URL to shorten a url in a bibliography? My instinct says they service might
    not stay up for all eternity (although that is also true for the website). '
  created: '2014-08-11 20:13:15'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: Editorial style--and your well-placed instinct--would dictate giving the full
    citation.
  created: '2014-08-11 20:26:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Frode, I think it\u2019s a sensible solution in several cases, and one I
    have already adopted in many occasions.\r\nThe problem with the ephemeral (or,
    better, ever-changing) nature of all things internet remains, of course, and it
    could be wise to add a \u201Cretrieved on [date]\u201D specification.\r\nOne thing
    I did (for a journal on welfare and social sciences) was to register a specific
    domain name for the purpose, in order to give the link a somewhat more \u201Cofficial\u201D
    and also more friendly and less nerdy appearance (for the moment it\u2019s backed
    by bit.ly, which offer a series of nice options, but there are php libraries to
    set up your own).\r\nOtherwise, for longevity and familiarity I would probably
    use goo.gl\r\nOn a last note, I try whenever possible or applicable to substitute
    \u201Chttp://\u201D with \u201Cwww.\u201D, in order to both reduce clutter, and
    let Adobe Reader recognise them as links."
  created: '2014-08-11 21:29:12'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: How about the name of the article, the domain name, and a shortened URL in
    parentheses?
  created: '2014-08-11 22:18:42'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Copywriters I've worked with don't permit URL-shortening services in citations.
    Their links may not work indefinitely, plus the actual URL shows the source immediately.
    And I agree with Riccardo that a retrieval date is a good idea.\r\n\r\n> although
    that is also true for the website\r\n\r\nYes but the original page could probably
    be found through the Internet Archive (https://archive.org) even if the site is
    no longer online, as long as you have the original URL.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/archive2_6016.jpg]"
  created: '2014-08-11 22:25:14'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Good compromise, since there are URLs that aren\u2019t reasonably printable."
  created: '2014-08-11 22:37:16'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> name of the article, the domain name\r\n\r\nThe problem with that method
    is that it's sometimes hard to find an old article via search, or a search may
    bring up a long list of articles.\r\n\r\nWhy don't you want to use full URLs?
    I can understand not wanting to use one in the middle of a paragraph, but they
    are appropriate in a bibliography. You're going to annoy readers who want to check
    your references."
  created: '2014-08-12 00:50:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "For one, in my experience, there are URLs, especially in bibliographies,
    which have no way to be displayed in a decent way (mostly because they\u2019re
    too long for any given line length), and, second, related to that, bibliographies
    are meant to be perused by humans: would you rater type in your browser something
    like \u201CThis Is The Title example.com\u201D or something like \u201Chttps://ww2.docs.example.com/archive/2012/59/dir/B/\u02DCJDoe/publications.php?&ID=356&Date=20120317&Display=PDF&Title=This%20Is%20The%20Title\u201D?
    \r\nKeeping in mind that many people don\u2019t really knew the difference between
    the location bar and the search bar, even before they were merged in todays browser,
    let alone that anything other than the domain name is case sensitive."
  created: '2014-08-12 08:43:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Yes, the URL in question is long and full of characters not easily acessible
    from a computer keyboard. Also, APA and McGill suggest just listing article title
    and domain name (and retrieval date).
  created: '2014-08-12 09:43:52'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I don't like long URLs either, and agree they can be difficult to retype.
    \ I'm just saying that copywriters I've worked with say you need to give the full
    URL. \r\n\r\nStyle guides sometimes disagree, but if the APA or McGill guide is
    appropriate for your paper, then follow their advice.\r\n\r\n> .php?&ID=356&Date=20120317&Display=\r\n\r\nCharacters
    that come after \".php\" or \".html\" can often be deleted from the URL and it'll
    still work. You should always test first, of course.\r\n\r\nFor example, the CNN
    article:\r\nhttp://www.cnn.com/2014/08/12/health/ebola-outbreak/index.html?hpt=hp_t2\r\ncan
    be shortened to:\r\nhttp://www.cnn.com/2014/08/12/health/ebola-outbreak/index.html"
  created: '2014-08-12 17:31:28'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Believe me, I shave off all I can! ;)\r\n(you can also get rid of /index.html,
    for example)"
  created: '2014-08-12 17:39:02'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Another option if you're concerned about someone typing long URLs is to also
    include a QR Code.\r\n\r\nI've never been a fan of how they look, but anyone with
    a smart phone with a QR app can snap a picture of it and be taken directly to
    the proper web page. And there are free QR generators on the web.\r\n\r\nBut one
    concern is that maybe 10 years from now they'll be replaced by something else,
    so in a bibliography I'd still include the original URL.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qrcode2_5836.jpg]"
  created: '2014-08-12 18:07:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A bit obtrusive, don\u2019t you think? ;)"
  created: '2014-08-12 19:16:39'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It can be a lot smaller, but I agree Ricccardo, I don't like the appearance.\r\n\r\nBut
    they work, and can be an alternative to a URL that people would have trouble typing.
    \ \r\n\r\nI'm seeing them more and more on signage, in advertising, even on business
    cards (usually on the back).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qrexample_3630.jpg]"
  created: '2014-08-12 22:49:52'
- author:
    name: white055
    picture: 127604
  body: Just joined the community and really enjoying it, I call a nice co-incidence.
    This is yet another piece of information I was searching around the web and in
    other communities.
  created: '2014-08-13 07:54:29'
date: '2010-10-07 00:26:28'
title: Is there a proper way to typeset a URL?

---
