---
author:
  name: paulow
  picture: 111605
body: Hi, wise people. Well, althought I has many fonts, in fact I never did a serious
  sans-serif in all my life. I desire to start now. So, I am here to hear your critiques
  and advices in this, yet unnamed, Intellecta First Sans. The sample here is the
  actual status of the font, still in work. To better resolution see the pdf. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/IntellectaFirstSans_status_rev009_pdf_5936.png]
comments:
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Ok I'm gonna be honest with you. h, the first l m n u v w x y z have potential.
    The rest is simply ugly. Start all over again from the glyphs with potential and
    forget about the weird serifs you made in a, c, e, etc. Also forget about the
    weird curves you made in the bottom of the f, bottom of the second r, bottom of
    the first stem in the second m.\r\n\r\nThe best way is to learn sans-serif, is
    to study sans-serif. Read books (I never did this. Not a must.), but mostly, LOOK!
    Have a very close look at all the nice sans-serifs you can find and figure out
    why the designer made certain choices.\r\n\r\nFirst real critique on the glyphs
    with potential: z looks top-heavy, w should be flipped, y maybe a tail curving
    to the left? \r\n\r\nIt's also important, to think of the purpose of your font.
    print, web, or both. text, display or both. Don't start with the other styles
    untill you've had some really positive comments from others.\r\n\r\nDon't let
    this discourage you. My first designs were very ugly and this really does have
    potential. I found the most important thing in typedesign is to never be sattisfied.
    With the help of all typophilians and a lot of hard work you'll get there. \r\n\r\nJasper
    de Waard, amateur typedesigner. "
  created: '2010-10-09 22:02:34'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "Thanks, Jasper. I will take in mind your vision. In fact, the \"weird\" serifs
    are not the final decision of this font. I add it to try different visions of
    the font, like you can see when I add four diferent versions of the \"r\". Believe
    me, is this the real first test of these lowercases. About your other question,
    I want create a text font, to be printed.\r\n\r\nAnd I never lost the courage
    (with this attitude I did make over 400 ugly fonts), but I make fonts for my pleasure,
    only this. If they sells, it's a by product of my funny life.\r\n\r\nIn the last
    months I am trying read more about typography, but maybe I have a punk blood:
    \"Make first, ask after\". A last thing : is not easy to read techinical books
    in foreign languages, try yourself reading a portuguese book.\r\n\r\nI like your
    point of view about the shapes. I will try some of them and back with more samples,
    soon, ok?\r\n\r\nbest regards"
  created: '2010-10-09 22:34:12'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I don't want to discourage you, but I think there is too many ideas in it.
    You talk about sans serif and you place a \u201Cserif\u201D in some letter (a,
    e, s, f). Concentrate your work on one goal, choose the h or the e for instance,
    which are different from each other in the drawing, to see which will give you
    satisfaction and make some draw from them. To help, you could take a closer look
    at some well known sans serif and observe how the letters are drawn. It takes
    consistency and similarity in the outline. Keep going. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-09 23:43:30'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "Hi, Andr\xE9. I agree, this sample have a lot of ideas, because I am not
    sure yet about the sahpes I want. Concerning the little serifs(a, e, s, f), many
    people don't like them, but I am searching for some kind of singularity to the
    font, understand? The \"e\" is totally wrong, I know, I will remake it. I agree
    wichh a look at good sans around the world can be help me to design this, but
    I am tryiing find the shapes to this font searching in the own font, if possible.
    I like to try first the things (self-taught) and before learn, if necessary. I
    appreciate (and respect) the knowledgement and the scholar methods and peoples,
    but I like, myself, try and learning using my way. This participation at Typophile
    is a attempt to learn with the other way. Thanks, soon I back with a revision
    of these lowercases"
  created: '2010-10-10 13:11:35'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: Well, here is mt first revision. What you think?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IntellectaFirstSans_v002_4542.png]
  created: '2010-10-10 22:44:14'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "It's a step in the right direction.\r\n\r\nThe c still needs more work (Compare
    Helvetiva and Frituger for inspiration)\r\nOnce you have your c, made your e and
    s according.\r\n\r\nThe k triangles looks unbalanced.\r\n\r\nThe m can be just
    a bit more narrow\r\n\r\nThe r branch is too long.\r\nHave a llok at this post:
    http://typophile.com/node/74824\r\n\r\nThe t tail is also to long.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-11 00:00:39'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: '@Pablo, thanks for the advices. Follow here some modifications in the "k".[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_show 1_3677.png]'
  created: '2010-10-11 15:43:36'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: for the "t"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_show
    1_6583.png]
  created: '2010-10-11 15:45:24'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: '@pablo, I don''t sure exactly what you try to say about to narrow the "m",
    but I show here two little variations in the "m"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_show 1_5720.png]'
  created: '2010-10-11 15:51:31'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: '... a new "r"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_show
    1_6635.png]'
  created: '2010-10-11 15:59:17'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "and, the last, the \"c\"\r\n\r\n@Pablo, I don't agree to search solutions
    in Frutiger and Helvetica, in this case, because I think they are very clean,
    very regular, very classical, if you undertsand me. I am searching for a modern
    taste, something difficult, because the high number of fonts is the world, and
    plus difficult tome, because my low practices to make text fonts. here is, anyway,
    some new shapes to the \"c\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First
    Sans_show 1_3482.png]"
  created: '2010-10-11 16:04:23'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "The new k looks nice!\r\n\r\nThe new t looks nice also.\r\nBut still need
    to refine the bottom tail ending to make it like the rest of your fonts.\r\nAll
    other endings have one of the squares made soft. The t tail ending don't.\r\n\r\nThe
    new r looks nice!\r\n\r\nOk. For modern looking \"c\" have a look at Type-Togeher
    fonts:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/foundry/Type-Together/\r\nThey usually add weight
    to the top part, by adding a serif, or by making the top curve go deeper.\r\n\r\nYou
    also need tho make the \"soft\" ending to the c,e and s. \r\nTo be in line with
    the other letters.\r\nHave a look at cronos from Adobe: http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/cronos/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-11 17:51:14'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Forgive me if I aim to be honest too.\r\n\r\nO.k., there is *some* idea in
    your draft, which does shine through in the n and m glyphs. But the whole set
    of glyphs you present reveals a total lack of basic typographic feeling and skills.
    I don\u2019t know your educational background, I don\u2019t want to step on your
    feet.  Why do you think you must do letters? \r\nIf you mean it, put the whole
    thing aside, start studying type, and eventually return to this drafts, for heavens
    sake not earlier than after one year\u2019s time. "
  created: '2010-10-11 19:23:06'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "@Andreas, thanks for to be honest. One teacher, when I was a kid, teaches
    me which all questions deserves answers, so, here are: concerning my educational
    background, I am a self-taught. And, I make typography because I like to make
    typography, and, for me, nothing more is so important than like to do that we
    want. If we learn much, or a bit, at academic world or just trying, this is not
    really the most important thing, first comes our personal feelings about the whole
    thing, it's my position. I will not put the whole thing aside, I will still try,
    and try, and to do mistakes, and try again, ever. Anyway, I appreciate your point-of-view.\r\n\r\nThere
    are genius and happy people, craftsmen who take the hands in the mud. Maybe I
    Am the second kind."
  created: '2010-10-11 20:46:34'
- author:
    name: kennyadam
  body: 'from what i could tell your "special" accent on the type faces the the fact
    on the tips of each letter you have on the corners, flat on one curved on the
    other. THEN on the opposing side you do the exact opposite. i see this as being
    most notable in the R. i like this distinct feature. Maybe taking and forming
    your letters based on this simple, geometric concept might be the key to making
    this font face? '
  created: '2010-10-11 23:26:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "When you have a curve that attaches on to a straight, as in the top left
    of b, h, m, n, you need to thin out the curve just a little before the join. Look
    at existing professional typefaces and see what I mean? Failing to do this will
    make that join look overly heavy.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-10-12 04:37:59'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Another faces that have the same \"one flat-one curved\" feature are:\r\nOverlock,
    by tipo.\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/tipo/overlock/\r\nHaptic:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/henning-skibbe/haptic/"
  created: '2010-10-12 05:34:30'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "@Pablo, I make a new design to the \"c\" and a first try to fix the bottom
    tail of the \"t\". \r\nBefore I starts to fix the \"soft\" endings to the c, e
    and s I need to define the shape of the \"c\", and this sample here is the right
    direction, maybe. Thanks for the links (all them).\r\n\r\n@kenny, thanks for the
    support. there are something more than critics in the world, indeed. I know which
    the idea of \"flat on one curved on the other\" is not really inovvative, but
    I really like this kind of shape since many years ago.\r\n\r\n@Thomas, thanks
    so much by the teaching expertise. I will try to do like you says, but only after
    I confirm the overall shapes of the letters, you dont agree? I fell which the
    whole thing is not totally defined yet\r\n\r\nwell, so, here is the actual shapes
    from \"c\" and \"t\". the head of the \"t\" is not good yet, I will fix it soon.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_REV 004_5577.png]"
  created: '2010-10-12 13:04:35'
- author:
    name: kennyadam
  body: 'yeah to me it seems like thats your biggest accent for the font and you should
    show it through. how i imagine your C being the best is actually just to take
    the lowercase l and literally bend it into a circular shape. Then your tips would
    keep the same accent. then all you have to experiment with is how you want the
    actual tips to face.. (straight out towards each other at a 45 degree or even
    facing each other directly.) once you have this you should cup the bottom of your
    lowercase T in this same manner to give it uniformity. '
  created: '2010-10-12 16:06:23'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: here is the actual version of the "t". I still working in the "c". It stills
    hard to define. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_REV
    004_6538.png]
  created: '2010-10-13 14:10:15'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: '@kenny, here is my actual "c". is not good yet. but I will test it compiling
    a font to test these lowercases all working. after, I will back with necessary
    corrections[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_REV 004_3445.png]'
  created: '2010-10-13 20:29:53'
- author:
    name: kennyadam
  body: 'it looks like the curving of the bottom isn''t as natural as the top.. maybe
    be more geometrically curved. '
  created: '2010-10-14 00:20:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "@paulow:\r\n\r\nYou wrote \"I will try to do like you says, but only after
    I confirm the overall shapes of the letters, you dont agree? I fell which the
    whole thing is not totally defined yet\"\r\n\r\nI understand that you're still
    working out the general shapes, but to me this is really basic. They're just not
    properly drawn letters without these sorts of touches, IMO. I can't really get
    past it.\r\n\r\nI see that your letter shapes are such that the \"o\" is slightly
    egg-shaped, and bigger at the top than the bottom. I assume this is on purpose.
    It doesn't bother me in the \"o\" so much, but the attempt to use the same shapes
    as the basis for, say the \"d\" is not working so well. The \"d\" just ends up
    looking lumpy. (I'm using the same word Robert Slimbach used a lot in critiquing
    some of my early work, btw, not meaning to sound too harsh.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-10-14 00:24:28'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "@Thomas, many thanks until here for your high valuable advices, ok? I back
    here with a revision at the \"a\", \"o\" (less egg-shapped now), and the \"t\"
    (and soon the \"f\") with your horizontal stem in the level of the head of the
    \"a\". \r\n\r\nConcerning the case of the \"curve that attaches on to a straight,
    as in the top left of b, h, m, n\" I will post a new sample in few minutes, showing
    my new shape to this curve\r\n\r\nThe question of the same basis for letters like
    \"a\", \"b\", \"d\" I will study in the next step. You dont seems too harsh, au
    contraire, you are doing like a gentlemen, and this is very important between
    colleagues. I think some personalities in this community are, in the last weeks,
    so much exalted.\r\n\r\nps. : what means \"IMO\"?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_REV 005_6049.png]"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:46:24'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "here is my solution (if I understand correctly your advice, Thomas), about
    the curves on the top of the vertical stems.\r\n\r\n@kenny, I still working in
    the \"c\" - a great problem until here[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_REV 005_6738.png]"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:52:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Paulow,\r\n\r\nThat is a major improvement, yes, for the joins. You could
    probably do the same thing just a *little* more, but that's pretty close.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you show the letters large like that the \"lumpiness\" issues become more apparent.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, in the \"b\" the top right and bottom left parts of the bowl seem thinner
    than anywhere else. This feels particularly \"wrong\" because it is the exact
    opposite of the effect of chirography, the idea that if a calligraphic implement
    was involved in drawing that bowl, those would be the thickest parts and the top
    left and bottom right would be the thinnest.\r\n\r\nThose same parts of the bowl
    are also flattened for some reason.\r\n\r\nAnother issue I'm seeing in letters
    like \"t\" and \"o\" is that the horizontals look thicker than the verticals.
    The verticals need to be slightly thicker than the horizontals to \"look\" the
    same, to achieve the feeling of being monoline (having even line thickness). I'm
    assuming that's what you're going for here.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nP.S.
    \"IMO\" = \"In my opinion\""
  created: '2010-10-15 06:02:18'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "(...) in the \"b\" the top right and bottom left parts of the bowl seem thinner
    than anywhere else. This feels particularly \"wrong\" because it is the exact
    opposite of the effect of chirography, the idea that if a calligraphic implement
    was involved in drawing that bowl, those would be the thickest parts and the top
    left and bottom right would be the thinnest. Those same parts of the bowl are
    also flattened for some reason. (...)\r\n\r\nWell, here is the actual status for
    \"b\" \"d\" \"a\" - to better resolution see the pdf attachment in the top of
    this topic\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_REV
    006_6596.png]"
  created: '2010-10-15 20:37:19'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "\"another issue I'm seeing in letters like \"t\" and \"o\" is that the horizontals
    look thicker than the verticals. The verticals need to be slightly thicker than
    the horizontals to \"look\" the same, to achieve the feeling of being monoline
    (having even line thickness). I'm assuming that's what you're going for here.\"\r\n\r\na
    new revision here (to better resolution, see the pdf in the top of this topic)
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta First Sans_REV 007_5385.png]"
  created: '2010-10-15 21:03:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Getting better all the time (as Lennon & McCartney said)!\r\n\r\nStill some
    definite \"lumpiness\" to the curves in b & d. Also g has the same stroke merging
    problem b and d used to have.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2010-10-16 03:25:09'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Paulo,\r\n\r\nyou have very interesting elements here. They point to a nice
    sans. The challenge is to articulate all them to create a coherent design. I see
    you already made huge improvements since the first post.\r\n\r\nI think you must
    define a global criteria for each glyph element and, after you have the whole
    A-z built based on this criteria, <em>maybe</em> introduce some particularities
    to extend font character. Otherwise, you will be builting a group of glyphs which
    together does not work harmoniously.\r\n\r\nFor example: the curve on top of stems
    have two opposite directions. Some goes at left (h, t), some at right (n, m, b).
    Define a direction, build all glyphs based on this and them you have a good base
    for improve. You can even substitute a whole piece in FontLab (so it becomes very
    easy to change ALL the tops with curves to left with tops with curves to right,
    if you decide to try this).\r\n\r\nI like your |f| very much. But |t| is strange
    due to very large bar at left. Its bottom terminal seems also undefined. Bottom
    of |g| seems thicker than remaining stems.\r\n\r\nA word about curve quality.
    This is your b (or something similar to it, as I traced it in Illustrator and
    grought to FontLab):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10172010_184038_5788.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem here is that you don't have a standard. In each quarter you have one kind
    of curve. Together, it seems you |b| has some irregularity. Of course, you don't
    want an exact circle but actually an unequal ellipse to compose the b. Anyway,
    this ellipse needs to be regularly build to get fluidness.\r\n\r\nThis is how
    I'd do this:\r\n\r\nFirstly, I make a copy of original glyph and put it at mask
    layer (all this in FontLab). With Ctrl+Shift+O, I make the mask visible. So I
    did edit control points in one quarter to get a more circle-like curve there:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10172010_190500_6206.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nWith
    a quarter closed, I simply copy-n-mirrow it to get the ellipse. Add the stem and
    you have a good start point:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10172010_193135_3904.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see I like to work with points (BCPs) and handles at a 4x4 grid. It's just
    a personal preference.\r\n\r\nAs I said, this is <strong>just</strong> a startpoint.
    Actually, you don't want a so regular b. The advantage with this structure is
    you can make experiments with one piece without interference in another. Fot example:
    handles {436,294} and {498,258} would be slowed to make upper conection more soft
    and less geometric. You can experiment with these handles while the other quarters
    remain ok.\r\n\r\nAt the end, you will probably modify severely the curves of
    quarters sw and nw, while ne and se will receive just small changes regarding
    height and width.\r\n\r\nWell, this is how I'm working. Since I begun to produce
    with pieces and use FontLab mask for my own designs (and not to show another font
    as an example, as I thought it was designed for), the workflow improved a lot.\r\n\r\nFollowing
    this method, I did some adjusts (for my taste, of course) and the glyph resulted
    this:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10172010_201002_5466.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nEven
    if you search for a very different result, you can see there is a regularity between
    the curves. And if you need to make then more oval its easy to move just some
    points or some handles.\r\n\r\nThe final result still needs work, but shows my
    idea about regularity:\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10172010_201035_3423.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-17 23:38:27'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Paulo,\r\n\r\nother things you can consider in your development:\r\n\r\n.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10182010_023713_4655.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nOvershoots
    usually are different for uppercase and lowercase. I use 12pt to lower and 16
    to upper. I do position BCPs in overshoot just for elliptical shapes. As you see
    in |a|, belly goes up to \u201312 (full overshoot). But for serif I put the bottom
    BCP at \u20138 because the serif shape is not straight nor elliptical.\r\n\r\nA
    global ruler at the vertical middle of the glyph kernel (I mean, without asc/descenders)
    is useful to control mirrored shapes. In this case, I have rulers to mark middle
    of lowercase, small caps and uppercase.\r\n\r\nMarks named top, bottom and ogo
    are anchors to automatically position diacritics. Most times to position these
    anchors exactly at the horizontal meddle is not the best. For |a|, I put top anchor
    at geometric meddle of this glyph without the serif (because serif is at the bottom
    and has small effect on optical middle at the top). In other hand, bottom anchor
    consider the whole glyph width. To position anchors is somewhat related to adjust
    sidebarings, IMO.\r\n\r\nFinally, you can see I used as few BCPs as possible.
    Every time it's possible, I use tangents and smooth connections.\r\n\r\nThis draft
    goes at the mask layer. I copy-n-paste it to main layer, merge contours and verify
    if further adjustments are need. Sometimes, FL changes slight some BCPs after
    merging, especially because it needs to round all positions to integers. After
    this, I manually add links (I prefer to use links instead of hints because them
    move with your BCPs in case you edit something later).\r\n\r\nPlease forgive me
    if you already know all this. I know you are a master in script fonts but, as
    this is your first sans, I believe some of these techniques may be not completely
    known \u2013 not to mention the possibility some generous fellow come here to
    make improvements on what I'm saying.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 06:06:33'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: "I was not satisfied with the \"c\" development. So, I do a overall remake
    in it. Thanks, Freiberger, for the high valuable (and detailed) informations.
    What I am doing now? I am compiling the informations learned until here in a new
    method process (based in your advices), to resume the development of the font
    direct in the FontLab. The problems related by Phinney and Freiberger will now
    to that software, to work considering the balance and the exact rules to the standard
    shapes recquired to the font. I am sure, at this point, about the overall feeling
    which I want to the font, need, so, work to get what I want within the new problems
    who appear, with the help of this forum, off course, Here the new \"c\"[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Intellecta
    First Sans_REV 007_6665.png]\r\n\r\nTo better resolution, see the IntellectaFirstSans_mocau_18oct.pdf
    at the top of this topic."
  created: '2010-10-18 21:55:40'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Two more ideas to your |c|:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tela_10182010_204455_5035.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-18 23:46:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: I'm off thread, but I'd like to say many thanks to Mr. Freiberger for is so
    valuable lessons.  :^)
  created: '2010-10-19 19:36:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Andr\xE9, sorry if I annoyed you. I'll avoid to post informations which must
    be obvious for most Typophilers."
  created: '2010-10-19 20:45:53'
- author:
    name: paulow
    picture: 111605
  body: The overall status of the font now is it. I am confortably now to go to FontLab
    to fix the accurate definition of the unbalanced curves, the top heads (like Phiney
    says), the proportion of the horizontal stems in comparison with the verticals,
    and other things. The last problem is the "s", which I still working, anyway.
    To better resolutionsee the pdf in the top of this topic.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IntellectaFirstSans_status_rev009_pdf_5389.png]
  created: '2010-10-19 22:30:11'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "There's something about the d, p and q that makes them look a little odd...
    they don't seem to 'flow' around the corners and some of the key points on the
    curves look a bit square.\r\n\r\nAlso with the f and the j, I'm not sure I like
    how they've been 'pinched' at the 90\u02DA corner.\r\n\r\nFinally with the a,
    try to fix the bowl, it looks like the top of it has been stretched out.\r\n\r\nI
    think you're on the right track."
  created: '2010-10-20 12:07:06'
date: '2010-10-09 21:01:48'
title: How to make a sans serif ?

---
