---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/business/groundbreaking-hebrew-fonts-are-not-public-domain-1.318133
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Hmmmm
  created: '2010-10-10 14:25:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Microsoft paid for Times, I assume. And they paid for their new Cleartype
    collection. But they imitated Helvetica with Arial, and were sued successfully
    over Segoe imitating Frutiger. You'd think that paying the creator and foundry
    would be cheaper than paying lawyers. I really don't understand them, as I really
    doubt that Zvi Narkis and Eliyahu Koren were making exhorbitant demands for rights.
    \r\n\r\nIn an article I posted to the Hebrew section, it was said that Microsoft
    paid Zvi Narkis after years of his complaints to them. So I don't know how this
    relates.\r\n\r\nBoth Narkis and Koren are \"type heroes\" who devoted their lives
    to improving Hebrew type and graphic design. So this is also symbolic. Koren died
    in 2001, and Narkis last month.     "
  created: '2010-10-10 15:44:17'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Incredible.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft still doesn't respect type authors."
  created: '2010-10-10 16:48:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nThe two fonts in question were licensed by Microsoft in good faith
    several years ago from the Kivun company and Shmuel Guttman respectively and the
    case in Israel is ongoing. Hope to be able to provide additional details on its
    conclusion. \r\n\r\nThanks, Si (Lead Program Manager for Fonts, Microsoft)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-10 17:52:13'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<i>were sued successfully over Segoe imitating Frutiger</i>\r\n\r\nUmm, I
    thought that they were blocked from registering EU Design Rights for Segoe, not
    sued?"
  created: '2010-10-10 21:17:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Sii: Kivun made a Word Processor called Dagesh and Accent. Shmuel Guttman
    was an individual who sold his renditions of fonts to this Word Processing company
    (at which many of my friends worked at). Since when does Microsoft license fonts
    from little companies that make word processors. \r\n\r\nSurely Microsoft could
    have picked up the yellow pages and looked up Koren Publishers Jerusalem and asked
    them if Guttman had the rights to their font? It's not as if nobody has heard
    of Koren, heck Jerusalem even named a street after the guy for his work on his
    font (http://albums.phanfare.com/isolated/0KDDZyNj/1/4350281). Funnily enough
    there is no Guttman Street!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-10 22:18:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Does Koren own part of Narkiss' designs?\r\n\r\nOr does Koren have a valid
    legal claim to designs inspired by Koren's books, namely a derivative of his Bible
    face, if that new creation was made in the USA where Koren P. do not have a desihn
    patent, or copyright on any computer code?\r\n\r\nGoHebrew is a legitimate foundry,
    but KP seems not have any legal rights, except maybe in Israel.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    E Koren passed away. His rights ceased. Therefore, Dafka for example, knocks out
    a Koren font, even though its entire owner lives in Israel.\r\n\r\nKP does not
    protest. Years go by. Hence, what claim does KP have?"
  created: '2010-10-10 22:32:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Si and Raphael for commenting. Very interested to see how this develops. '
  created: '2010-10-10 22:36:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "As Simon said --  the case in Israel is ongoing.  \r\n\r\n\r\n> Surely Microsoft
    could have picked up the yellow pages\r\n\r\nSurely  Microsoft Israel..."
  created: '2010-10-10 22:50:55'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "gohebrew: I am confused as to why you think that Koren would have any claim
    to Narkis's fonts.\r\n\r\nregarding whether Koren has copyright over it's fonts,
    nobody in the world (with the exception of you of course) disputes this.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think you understand what this first part of the court case is about. Please
    reread the article.\r\n\r\nRegarding Davka, (not Dafka), yes they did sell the
    Keren font and as soon as I started working there, I was in touch with them to
    ask them to stop selling it and they promptly did so not realising that this wasn't
    okay. So you are wrong. We did protest and they immediately stopped so your comment
    is incorrect and unfair to Davka who are an excellent company selling and excellent
    products which we use! (their website is www.davka.com).\r\n\r\nNow if GoHebrew,
    as a legitimate font foundry, creates a version of the Koren font without the
    permission of Koren Publishers Jerusalem Ltd, then I'm not sure why you think
    that this is okay and I wonder if others on this forum also think it's okay for
    foundries such as GoHebrew to copy other people's designs. "
  created: '2010-10-10 22:56:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nRaphael is right. Why to copy Koren? \r\n\r\n> ...in the USA
    where Koren P. do not have a desihn patent, or copyright on any computer code?\r\n\r\nSo?
    Why to copy Koren? "
  created: '2010-10-10 23:04:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Si, i don't believe this is clear either, from the same story,\r\n\r\n\"Indeed,
    Microsoft argued against the entire system of copywriting fonts: Fonts cannot
    be copyrighted; they should be considered designs, Microsoft argued.\"\r\n\r\nIt
    must be, that  \r\n   Microsoft argued against the entire system of copywriting
    font designs. Font designs cannot be copyrighted; they should be considered objects
    of utility. At least that was the old argument against even copyrighting them
    as software.\r\n\r\nSurely MS has a lot of expensive copyrighted font software
    it was not arguing against? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-10 23:20:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "May I just add, that there are 2 Koren families, Koren Siddur and Koren Tanakh.
    \r\n\r\nThese were not available digitally until very recently. My first project
    at Koren was to oversee the digitisation of the Koren Tanakh font (we saw that
    people were prefering Windows and MacOS over lead for some odd reason :-) ) and
    now the entire original families are available in OpenType format from www.masterfont.co.il
    (who has exclusivity our fonts). There are some very cool features in the font,
    particularly in the Tanakh Bold."
  created: '2010-10-10 23:26:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Pirates Of The Mediterranean, Part I\r\n\r\n<em>The two fonts in question
    were licensed by Microsoft in good faith several years ago</em>\r\n\r\nJeez, sii.
    Don't you guys \"get\" font licensing after all these years? No wonder you can't
    write me up a paragraph explaining it.\r\nBut good to know the effort to weasel
    out is ongoing. ;)\r\n\r\nAnd BTW - the argument that fonts are designs makes
    perfect sense as a defense. And where else would it be precedent except in Israel?\r\n\r\nAhhh,
    what do I know.... nuttin'.\r\n\r\n(I'd kill to read the briefs and transcipts
    in English. Anybody got any legal contacts there?)"
  created: '2010-10-11 00:57:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I hear that a. the Haaretz article is inaccurate, and doesn't get what is
    going on. b. This case is the first time the Israeli law on fonts that is at issue
    is being tested. I still don't know what is going on, but very curious...
  created: '2010-10-11 15:31:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...the Haaretz article is inaccurate, and doesn't get what is going on.</em>\r\n\r\nYou've
    just described every newspaper article I have ever read that related to a subject
    about which I knew something. Needless to say, this makes me kind of worried about
    all the articles on subjects of which I am ignorant."
  created: '2010-10-11 16:46:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Typefaces are designs, while fonts are software. I assume that while Microsoft
    made use of the design of the typefaces in question, either Microsoft, or the
    company from which it licensed what it used in its products, originated fonts
    corresponding to those designs. And so Microsoft is being sued under an unusual
    Israeli law, which protects typefaces by the copyright law, instead of (as designs)
    by patent law.\r\n\r\nIf the allegations against Microsoft, and its response,
    are both true, then I would expect things to play out like this: the fact that
    Microsoft may have been a victim of fraud when it licensed the typefaces in good
    faith would not entitle it to continue using them - it could recover what it owes
    to Koren from Kivun, <em>if they have the assets</em>, but this wouldn't necessarily
    be a shield for Microsoft against civil liability the way it is against criminal
    liability. (Under some circumstances, the court could go tell Koren to sue Kivun,
    at least to recover damages for past use, but generally acting in good faith doesn't
    protect one from being liable even when the moral fault is really someone else's.)"
  created: '2010-10-11 17:21:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...generally acting in good faith doesn't protect one from being liable
    even when the moral fault is really someone else's.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, but Microsoft's
    licensing contract presumably includes a clause in which the licensor affirm that
    they own the relevant rights and may legally license them to the licensee, accepting
    liability if this is not the case. That's pretty standard in OEM license agreements."
  created: '2010-10-11 17:40:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The article mentioned above\r\n\r\nsee www.haaretz.com/print-edition/business/groundbreaking-hebrew-fonts-are-not-public-domain-1.318133\r\n\r\nseems
    to be sort of a hoax or sort of a legal joke.\r\n\r\n1) The Israel copyright law
    does not contain any provisions for the copyright protection of fonts.\r\n\r\nsee
    www.tau.ac.il/law/members/birnhack/IsraeliCopyrightAct2007.pdf\r\n\r\n2) The Israel
    copyright law as a national law is not binding for any foreign country, especially
    here it is not binding for Microsoft as a USA company.\r\n\r\n3) Both Israel and
    the USA are members of the RBC (Revised Berne Convention), but the USA became
    a RBC member four decades after the publication of the 1950 Hebrew fonts mentioned
    above.\r\n\r\nsee www.wipo.int/treaties/en/documents/pdf/berne.pdf\r\n\r\n4) So,
    even if the 1950 Hebrew fonts were copyrightable as per the Israel copyright law
    (which they are not), this would be irrelevant for Microsoft, because the USA
    became a RBC member in 1989, while the 1950 Hebrew fonts were issued forty years
    earlier.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-11 17:46:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "National laws are always binding on foreign companies doing business in the
    relevant country. One may not be able to arrest those who are physically in foreign
    countries, but everyone within a country must obey the laws there, and assets
    within the country can be seized, the continued ability to do business in that
    country can be ended, and so on.\r\n\r\nHowever, your other points are interesting,
    and could well mean that Microsoft has nothing to worry about."
  created: '2010-10-11 18:56:01'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> The RepubliCON party. Motto: \"Conning the public since 1980\"\r\n\r\nI
    agree with this argument wholeheartedly, except for one thing: the same is true
    of Democrats."
  created: '2010-10-11 20:09:34'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "You eyes must be brown William :-)\r\n\r\nAccording to the Associated Press
    several weeks ago the rich are spending less and the misery is trickling down
    Bill. So tax them more and they will hold onto their money, just like the corporations
    are dong now, and it just makes the recession cycle worse. \r\n\r\nTo correct
    a point , tax revenues went up during Kennedy's, Reagan's and Bush's tax cuts.\r\n\r\nExplain
    that away, please.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-11 22:40:52'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "No don't Bill, this is not a political forum and I do not know why you even
    went there. \r\n\r\n\r\nSorry, I could not erase my retort to Bill."
  created: '2010-10-11 22:47:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Michael, you can just click on "edit" and remove content. A blank post will
    remain, I think.
  created: '2010-10-12 00:02:25'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "It had already run out of time.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 00:35:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree wholeheartedly. \r\n\r\nI think that maybe the internet can
    help to correct this habitual failing of journalists. At any rate we should try.
    \r\n\r\n[political discussion deleted by author]\r\n\r\nLawsuits are particularly
    difficult to cover, as information is weaponry in the suit. It probably takes
    specialists to get this right, but here they usually only cover the Supreme Court
    and notorious cases.   "
  created: '2010-10-12 00:36:17'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "After a certain amount of time the edit function disappears.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 00:44:08'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: .
  created: '2010-10-12 00:45:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I've also removed my original political content, as you're right it is out
    of place. \r\n\r\nI don't understand how it can be out of time to edit yours;
    I just edited mine, which is older.\r\n\r\nEdit: I just checked another thread
    dating back to June, and not started by me, and the \"edit\" link was there at
    the bottom left, just as in this thread. And it worked in opening the comment. "
  created: '2010-10-12 00:54:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I think you have to be a paying member of these forums to have certain functions
    available. I know when I post, "edit" is only an option under the post for a very
    short period of time after I post it.
  created: '2010-10-12 01:59:06'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: So much for it being a free forum... hmmm, almost sounds capitalistic, god
    forbid. Tax it dammit!
  created: '2010-10-12 02:22:29'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I could probably delete mine if the edit link was there... /shrug
  created: '2010-10-12 02:39:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That's weird. Hopefully one of the admins can clarify what is going on. Here
    I was thinking that Michael can't bear look to the Left side :)\r\n\r\nps. I did
    contribute, but didn't know it affected any functionality. This was not advertised. "
  created: '2010-10-12 03:46:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Maybe being the thread starter gives you nonexpiring edit links. '
  created: '2010-10-12 04:46:55'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: What is inaccurate about the article. I just reread it. It seems pretty accurate
    to me.
  created: '2010-10-12 05:41:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Raphael, I don''t know what is inaccurate, if anything. I heard that a knowledgeable
    Israeli type designer said that it is inaccurate, and my experience with journalism
    made me predisposed to think there was something in the complaint. But you are
    in a position to know, so I appreciate your commenting. I will try to dig into
    this further, to find out what is the complaint about the article. '
  created: '2010-10-12 13:01:17'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "The Haaretz article is hugely inaccurate. I just downloaded the pdf of the
    decision (in Hebrew). \r\n\r\nHere is the deal:\r\n\r\n1) The \"most popular Hebrew
    sans-serif\" is not at issue here at all. That is a whole other story in itself.
    I did the design of the Arial Hebrew for Monotype (who licensed the font to both
    Apple & Microsoft), so I happen to know it. Firstly, it is true that Zvi Narkis
    made claims against my Arial design back in the 90's. Unfortunately, despite clear
    expert opinion Microsoft obtained that Arial was an original design and not a
    copy of \"Narkis Tam\", they chose to settle with Zvi Narkis instead of litigating.
    Interestingly, one of the plaintiffs in the current case \u2013 Zvika Rozenberg
    \u2013 was consulting Apple on the development of the Hebrew fonts [Apple was
    intimately involved in the process, while Microsoft licensed the already existing
    font] and was involved during my Arial creation process. What IS at issue in the
    current case is an alleged misuse of the font \"Narkisim\" (which NOT a sans-serif
    font at all). Even the illustration in this Haaretz article uses the wrong fonts,
    not \"Narkisim\".\r\n\r\n2) I only quickly scanned the court decision, but it
    is clearly not the end of the case. The merits of the claims were not at all discussed
    here, the decision pertains ONLY to the definition of the legal protection enjoyed
    by fonts. It is a long document full of learned back-and-forth on whether fonts
    are to be considered \"designs\" or \"intellectual property\". The decision was
    \"intellectual property\" (in original Hebrew \"creator rights\").\r\n\r\n3) There
    is nothing in the decision about any restraining order prohibiting further usage.\r\n\r\n4)
    The legal costs are to cover FOR THIS PARTICULAR part of the case by the losing
    side \u2013 the defendants.\r\n\r\nThe merits of the case are still to be argued,
    it would be interesting to see what the claims are."
  created: '2010-10-12 15:37:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Baruch, that is very helpful. But what I am puzzled by is why Microsoft
    would argue that they are \"designs\" rather than \"intellectual property\". I
    think their fonts are generally protected in the U.S. as software, not as as designs.
    \u2014I'm sure I will be corrected here if I got it wrong. \r\n\r\nIf so, it would
    appear, as David Berlow says above, that Microsoft was, in effect, arguing against
    itself. \r\n\r\nDoes this have to do with the different definitions of \"design\"
    and \"intellectual property\" in the two countries? Can you shed any light on
    this? What is at issue here is still not clear to me, either in the current ruling,
    or the case going forward. "
  created: '2010-10-12 16:04:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Baruch,\r\n\r\nI haven't gotten any responses to my emails as yet.\r\nCould
    you post the PDF somewhere? Just the exact names of the law firms and plaintiff
    would be of help. Dates, too.\r\n\r\nThere must also be, at least, the complaint
    that started the suit - and, obviously, briefs if the court ruled on an issue.\r\n\r\n<em>\"the
    decision pertains ONLY to the definition of the legal protection enjoyed by fonts.\"</em>\r\n\r\nBased
    on this, it seems likely that MSFT's lawyers did indeed challenge the KIND of
    legal protection the font is entitled to.\r\nThis makes sense and was probably
    smart lawyering. If the judge had ruled differently, the whole thing would have
    gone away. I'm assuming the lawyers are being paid to win the case, with whatever
    line of argument needed to win it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 16:06:28'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Richard, I just made the decision pdf available here: http://www.sendspace.com/pro/wtzfqk\r\nPlaintiffs:
    The Estate of Zvi Narkis, Koren Publishing House, Zvi Rozenberg, Mastefont (Zvi
    Rozenberg is the owner of Mastefont)\r\nDefendants: Microsoft Israel, Microsoft
    Corp\r\nThe court decision was rendered on October 5, 2010\r\n\r\nWilliam, I do
    not know the merits of the case and thus the reason behind Microsoft's attempt
    to frame the legal protection of fonts this way. I can only assume it was a move
    to shorten the litigation (if they would have won at this stage, the merits of
    the case would have become irrelevant, as Richard just wrote), or perhaps they
    really have nothing else in their arsenal? I am very surprised they didn't just
    settle the mater out of court though.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-12 16:46:57'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: 'I will say this though: regardless of the merits of the case and its eventual
    outcome, this decision is good news for anyone doing Hebrew type design. '
  created: '2010-10-12 16:59:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Baruch, does the intellectual property decision refer to fonts, i.e. to the
    software implementation of a typeface design, or to the typeface design? This
    is not clear from your summary, and it is an area in which many countries make
    a distinction, e.g. as in the USA recognising copyright protection for fonts as
    software but recognising design patent protection for typeface designs. It is
    important to be clear about what is subject to this decision, the font software
    or the design itself or both.
  created: '2010-10-12 17:45:51'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "John, the decision was about the design itself, not the digital fonts. The
    claim is against an \"unauthorized digitization\" of these Narkisim and Koren
    designs by a third party.\r\n\r\nMoreover, it is a well-established law in Israel
    that the design itself is protected. The question here was not 'weather' it is
    protected, but rather 'under what rubric' does this protection fall? If a font
    is to be protected as a \"design\" \u2013 \u05DE\u05EA\u05D2\u05DD, then there
    is a time expiration on this protection (like with a patent). If they are to be
    protected under \"creator rights (copyright)\" - \u05D6\u05DB\u05D5\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05E6\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD, then the protection either doesn't
    expire at all or has a much longer shelf life (I am not clear on that last point).
    This question is irrelevant for newer designs that are protected in either case,
    but the designs in question date back to 1950's, so it is very relevant indeed.\r\n\r\n[Btw,
    the idea of a separate hearing on this purely legal issue was (according to this
    decision) proposed by the Judge himself in a pre-trial hearing back in March and
    accepted by both sides. Thus they can now proceed with the actual case based on
    this decision. My guess is that Microsoft will attempt to settle the case and
    might go after the entity that licensed the fonts to them in the first place.]"
  created: '2010-10-12 18:22:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks, Baruch. That was the clarification I sought, and it is an important
    one.
  created: '2010-10-12 20:35:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Microsoft...might go after the entity that licensed the fonts to them in
    the first place.\r\n\r\npp.7-8, section 14: they are saying that they have a license
    (Narkisim); maybe from that entity?  \r\n\r\n\r\n> the decision was about the
    design itself, not the digital fonts... but the designs in question date back
    to 1950's, so it is very relevant indeed.\r\n\r\nRead pp.21-22, section 35:  Shamgar's
    ruling (was President of the Israeli Supreme Court), the case of Interlego.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, font design, font software, or whatever the name,  is one package."
  created: '2010-10-12 20:37:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Baruch, that's helpful, thanks. I can't find the word \u05DE\u05EA\u05D2\u05DD
    in the my Alcalay dictionary,  and Google translate doesn't know it either. Is
    that the correct spelling? Do you know whether \"zechuyot hayotzrim\" is legally
    the same as \"copyright,\" or whether something else is going on here? As I said,
    the puzzling thing here is whether Microsoft had been arguing against copyright,
    which protects its fonts in the U.S., as I understand it.    "
  created: '2010-10-12 20:44:16'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "<cite>That said, font design, font software, or whatever the name, is one
    package</cite>\r\n\r\nJohn's question was whether design alone is protected; and
    it is."
  created: '2010-10-12 20:51:32'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\n\r\nBill,\r\n\r\n\u05DE\u05D3\u05D2\u05DD\r\n\u05DE\u05D3\u05D2\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD\r\n\r\nhttp://www.justice.gov.il/MOJHeb/RashamHaptentim/MeidaKlali/OdotKanyanRohani.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.justice.gov.il/MOJEng/RashamPatentim/"
  created: '2010-10-12 20:54:36'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "William, the US copyright law is not relevant here, the question is usage
    in Israel. I misspelled the word \u05DE\u05D3\u05D2\u05DD "
  created: '2010-10-12 20:56:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'If Microsoft''s fonts are protected as software, why would they say they
    were designs? I think that confuses something: while the fonts are software, those
    were not copied - only the designs might have been.'
  created: '2010-10-12 21:49:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">US copyright law is not relevant here\r\n\r\nIt's not directly relevant
    to the case in Israel, but seems peculiar for the lawyers to make essentially
    opposite arguments in different countries, if the issue is the same. Then maybe
    their argument could be quoted back to them in another country, in another case.
    \r\n\r\nI think I understand the differences now: The Israeli law allows font
    designs to be protected by copyright, according to this ruling. This is unlike
    in the U.S. where, as I understand it, only the software is copyrightable, not
    the design. The design has to be patented to be protected. But here the issue
    was not copyright of software, but of a design, so the issue is different. \r\n\r\nI
    must say I prefer the Israeli law! "
  created: '2010-10-12 22:33:21'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: I have a copy of the decision. There can be copyright in a typeface as a matter
    of Israeli law; the parties will now argue whether there is copyright in the types
    in question. The decision is scholarly, as the judge happens to be a law professor.
    I can provide some commentary after I read the decision closely.
  created: '2010-10-12 23:41:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I think I understand the differences now: The Israeli law allows
    font designs to be protected by copyright...</em>\r\n\r\nThe difference is always
    easier to comprehend if you avoid phrases like \u2018font designs\u2019.\r\n\r\nA
    font is always a particular technical implementation of a typeface design, and
    that is true whether you are talking about trays of cast metal, sets of Linotype
    brass matrices, Berthold glass photo discs, Letraset rubdown sheets, or an OpenType
    digital font file. A typeface is a design, a font is an implementation. Both the
    design and the implementation may involve original creative work, and different
    jurisdictions recognise that and protect that work as intellectual property in
    different ways. The recent Israeli ruling apparently establishes that, under Israeli
    law, a typeface design may be subject to copyright protection. This is different
    from e.g. US or Canadian law, in which the design is subject a different category
    of intellectual property protection (design patent or design registration)."
  created: '2010-10-13 00:14:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">font design\r\n\r\nOops. Yes, of course: typeface design. "
  created: '2010-10-13 02:40:15'
- author:
    name: EK
    picture: 112781
  body: "According to the decision, copyright can exist in a typeface if it satisfies
    three requirements: creativity (\u05D9\u05E6\u05D9\u05E8\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA);
    originality (\u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA); and artistry* (\u05D0\u05DE\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA),
    that is the design must be artistic as opposed to purely functional.\r\n\r\n*
    According to para. 52 of the decision, for the design to satisfy the third requirement
    it must be guided \"mostly\" by artistic considerations. This prong of the test
    may cause problems in the future."
  created: '2010-10-13 04:15:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, EK. I agree that the \"mostly\" artistry requirement will be hard
    to judge. But the other two are not so easy either. However I would think that
    judging what is an \"original design\" for a design patent in the US is also equally
    difficult. \r\n\r\nIs there a difference here in burden of proof? That is, with
    a copyright, you can just register it, and it has to be challenged. To get a design
    patent you have to make some kind of positive proof to a judge or examiner, I
    think, though I'm not sure. Is there any kind of difference like this in Israel
    between protection of \"design\" and \"copyright\"? Above Baruch Gorkin tells
    us there is a difference in length of protection, but is anything else different?
    \ "
  created: '2010-10-13 13:31:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks EK.\r\n\r\nThe appearance of a purely functional type design, and
    the performance of a purely artistic type font, are what'll have me baffled for
    today. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-13 20:18:35'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Thanks for the pdf, Baruch.
  created: '2010-10-13 21:08:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>A font is always a particular technical implementation of a typeface
    design, and that is true whether you are talking about trays of cast metal, sets
    of Linotype brass matrices, Berthold glass photo discs, Letraset rubdown sheets,
    or an OpenType digital font file. A typeface is a design, a font is an implementation.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    has me confused. (You know, I confuse easily.)\r\nFor a design patent, you have
    to have drawings, right? Which, under your definition is yet another implementation
    of \"the design\".\r\nSo, if these are all \"implementations\" of \"the design\",
    where does the actual \"design\" exist?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-13 21:42:40'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "people might be interested in this link:\r\n\r\nhttp://blog.ipfactor.co.il/2010/10/12/are-fonts-registerable-designs-or-creations-that-are-automatically-protectable-by-copyright/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-13 21:53:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In <em>High Art Lite</em>, (1999), his book on YBA (Young British Art, eg
    Hirst, Emin, &c.) Julian Stallabrass attempted to find some way of describing
    their art in such a way that a line could be drawn between Art and Not Art, but
    was unable to come up with anything more substantial than the fact that the art
    which appears in art galleries is made by people who have been to art school.\r\n\r\nPurely
    objective descriptions of the works were typically categorical, in the sense that
    no matter how one attempts to pin down a definition, there is always an exception
    to the rule. Bring on the expert witnesses."
  created: '2010-10-13 22:42:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Raphael. I have now read it once, but am not too much the wiser.
    I will have another go or two at wading through the legal reasoning.  \r\n\r\nOne
    interesting wrinkle here is the discussion over whether typefaces are an \"article
    of manufacture\", with I gather the idea being that software is not tangible,
    so it is in a different category. \r\n\r\nThat's an interesting point, though
    I don't yet understand its significance; perhaps I will get it in a few more reads.
    \r\n\r\nNote that Baruch's dismissal of the relevance of US patent law is incorrect.
    In discussing the case, the author refers to U.S. and European law, and it seems
    that he is at this point summarizing what the judge wrote. Foreign laws are not
    controlling, but they are relevant to the discussion. "
  created: '2010-10-13 22:59:08'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "William, I stand by my assessment: \r\n\r\nI did see that the judge brought
    foreign law examples in his 31 page decision text, but these examples only speak
    to his thought process in reaching the decision (unless the decision itself is
    appealed, which I am sure will not happen). \r\n\r\nNow that the final decision
    has been rendered, the only law that will make any difference in this and other
    cases tried in Israel will be the Israeli law. Moreover, I do not see how, absent
    'prior art', Microsoft can possibly justify using these fruits of the \"unauthorized
    digitization\". Given what we hear, there is little doubt that the shapes of the
    letterforms in question are close copies of Narkisim and Koren.\r\n\r\nIn other
    words, whoever did the digitizing of these fonts must have relied on the US law
    that only protects the actual electronic fonts of the non-patented art. <strong>Surely
    you must agree that this US law will be of no help to Microsoft going forward.</strong>"
  created: '2010-10-14 00:45:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Baruch, maybe we mean something different by \"relevant\". The Judge saw
    fit to discuss foreign law, including U.S. law, and that is what I mean by \"relevant.\"
    As I said, obviously Israeli law is controlling, not U.S. law. The U.S. and other
    foreign laws are relevant to considering legal theory. And I wouldn't be surprised
    if the Israeli decision were referred to in a future U.S. case, if it contains
    reasoning that bears on a U.S. case. That's in fact why I was puzzled by the newspaper
    article's account. \r\n\r\nI agree that the the U.S. law has no bearing on the
    further proceedings in Israel, as these will concern the facts of the case, and
    how to apply Israeli law. It is only the issue of law where comparison where legal
    reasoning in other countries would be relevant.  "
  created: '2010-10-14 01:35:16'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: William, that I agree with.
  created: '2010-10-14 02:07:07'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> that is the design must be artistic as opposed to purely functional.\r\n>
    * According to para. 52 of the decision, for the design to satisfy the third \r\n>
    requirement it must be guided \"mostly\" by artistic considerations. This prong
    of \r\n> the test may cause problems in the future.\r\n\r\nWhy problem? \r\n\r\n\r\nThere
    is a reason why the judge Gruschkopf had mentioned different cases. In the  Interlego
    case Supreme Court judge Meir Shamgar  added the artistic or artistry  criteria
    because his aim was to prevent   one  side from gaining a  monopoly if the case
    was judged on functionality alone. \r\n\r\nThere are several  artistry  criteria:\r\n1.
    the choice option where the buyer has the option to choose from  several products
    on the shelf.\r\n2. the creator's intention.\r\n3. how the public accepted/viewed
    the product.\r\n4. willingness of the public to pay for that product [if they
    think that the product is good and worth the expenses]\r\n5. aesthetic \r\n6.
    artistry\r\n\r\nNow the judge Gruschkopf said in section 52 that effort by itself
    is not enough. This is clear, why?  Let's say that a person is \"designing\"  typefaces
    by tweaking other designs, where no intention or care is given  to other aspects
    of the design; so this kind of case won't hold water. \r\n\r\nJudge Gruschkopf
    is saying that a typeface could and should be  under the umbrella of creator rights.
    He understands that a typeface design is  not a one day task/job, and the designer
    should have a long time to hold the rights to the designs in order to gain profit!\r\nAnd
    by the law (Duration of Copyright, section 38): \"Copyright in a work shall subsist
    during the life of its author and for 70 years after his death, subject to the
    provisions in this chapter.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW, the judge is not accepting the view
    that   a typeface that was designed in the digital era is subject to a different
    law treatment than a typeface that was made by trays of cast metal.  \r\nThis
    is also based on the ruling of Shamgar in the case of Interlego. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 05:55:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Boruch,\r\n\r\nTzvika is a lousy witness to cite. Is his version for Apple
    of David a cheap lousy knock-off of Itamar David's elegant and original design?
    What a joke to bring him, the rip-off artist himself?"
  created: '2010-10-14 14:48:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Boruch,\r\n\r\nAren't the font laws stricter in Israel than US Copyright
    law?\r\n\r\nSo, if a font is created and registered for US Copyright here in America,
    inspired by a Hebrew perhaps created in Israel, then the law should follow US
    Copyright laws, because the State of Israel signed on to US Copyright law under
    the Berne Convention, agreed upon by most every civilized country in the western
    world. I think Russia signed on too recently.\r\n\r\nYour Arial Hebrew is stunning.
    Clearly, your height and weight stroke achievements prove alone that Arial Hebrew
    is in a class for itself. I am shocked that Tzvi sued.\r\n\r\nI am not saying
    this because you came to my house in Kfar Chabad, as a very young man,, still
    in Yeshiva Tomchei Tmimim. Or because you gave great fabrenghen at Aaron's house.
    Like most Russians, you hold your mashke (not in your hand)."
  created: '2010-10-14 15:02:40'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Baruch:\r\n\"other words, whoever did the digitizing of these fonts must
    have relied on the US law that only protects the actual electronic fonts of the
    non-patented art.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think Shmuel Gutman who made the Keren font
    in question was relying on any law. He thought it was okay to make the changes
    and because he made changes he called it Keren NOT Koren. This is what he told
    me personally some years ago when I met with him (before I worked for Koren).\r\n\r\n\r\nScott:\r\n\"Tzvika
    is a lousy witness to cite. Is his version for Apple of David a cheap lousy knock-off
    of Itamar David's elegant and original design? What a joke to bring him, the rip-off
    artist himself?\"\r\n\r\nI know you hate Zvika Rosenberg for some reason, but
    let's try and keep the forums professional and not bring in your personal feelings.
    \r\n\r\nAgain according to my conversation with Mr Gutman who was a good friend
    of Ismar David, he related to me that Mr David was happy for everyone to use his
    font and develop it further or to simply copy it. That was why Gutman called his
    version of the font David (he didn't change the name) and therefore you can't
    call anybody's version of it a \"knock-off\" because that implies it was copied
    without his permission and he clearly gave it to everyone.\r\n\r\nFinally, your
    rather rude comment about Rosenberg being a rip-off artist is not appropriate.
    It is interesting that Tzvi Narkis z\"l chose Rosenberg to digitise his typeface
    and to market it and not another company. Tzvi Narkis was an internatially acclaimed
    font designer and certainly would not have worked with Rosenberg if he didn't
    think he was an upstanding honest business man. Again this information is directly
    from Narkis's mouth to my ear."
  created: '2010-10-14 17:37:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Scott:\r\n\"Tzvika is a lousy witness to cite. Is his version for Apple
    of David a cheap \r\n\r\nRaphael,\r\n\r\nIsrael, not Scott. "
  created: '2010-10-14 17:47:23'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nNot according to his facebook account: \r\nhttp://www.facebook.com/#!/profile.php?id=1127971979"
  created: '2010-10-14 18:05:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Not according to his facebook account:\r\n\r\nAhh,  \"double agent\"\r\n
    :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 18:16:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael quotes:\r\n\r\nBaruch:\r\n\"other words, whoever did the digitizing
    of these fonts must have relied on the US law that only protects the actual electronic
    fonts of the non-patented art.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is exactly accurate, Raphael.\r\n\r\nUS
    Copyright law rejected applications for font software as being \"digital data
    that described letter forms\".\r\n\r\nAfter outline typeface software was released
    by Adobe in the verbal PostScript language as scalable outlines defined mathematically,
    and later by Apple and Microsoft as TrueType, font software was no longer \"digital
    data that described letter forms\".\r\n\r\nSo, the very conservative US Copyright
    Office now required outline typeface applicants to sign a disclaimer, rendering
    their applications powerless.\r\n\r\nI refused to sign in 1989.\r\n\r\nA long
    correspondence ensued between the then head of the US Copyright Office, Ms. D
    Lawrence, and myself, then the CEO/President of Font World, Inc. She asked me
    why the US Copyright Office should accept my applications for hundreds of outline
    typeface fonts in every world language except Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.\r\n\r\nI
    presented an analogy, which explain in easy-to-understand terms why the US Copyright
    Office should accept my applications.\r\n\r\nI told them that an outline typeface
    software was like telling a common story. Some storytellers are good, and some
    storytellers are better. It's the same story, but each one tells it different.
    \r\n\r\nOne uses this word, while another uses that word. This is like placing
    the BCPs, the bezier control points in a PostScript font here or there, although
    the result look similar. However, one way renders better than the other.\r\n\r\nThe
    US Copyright Office accepted this explanation, and issued me and those after me,
    US Copyright registration, granting me full intellectial property protection,
    even for Crown, inspired by the public domain design, that Eliyahu Koren claimed
    untruthfully for himself. The date was 1989.\r\n\r\nUS Copyright law sign by the
    State of Israel in 1988.\r\n\r\nIn the USA, US Copyright law does apply to art
    designs, such that employed by Eliyahu Koren. Rather, US Patent law applies, if
    certain conditions are met, as done by Linotype for Times-Roman. Eliyahu Koren
    never made a US Patent application, because to do so was too complicated until
    very recently.\r\n\r\nHence, no intellectual property protection applies.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 19:58:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael:\r\n\r\n>> I don't think Shmuel Gutman who made the Keren font in
    question was relying on any law. He thought it was okay to make the changes and
    because he made changes he called it Keren NOT Koren. This is what he told me
    personally some years ago when I met with him (before I worked for Koren).\r\n\r\n\r\nHow
    does Keren differ from Koren besides one letter?"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:00:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael quotes and comments:\r\n\r\nScott:\r\n\"Tzvika is a lousy witness
    to cite. Is his version for Apple of David a cheap lousy knock-off of Itamar David's
    elegant and original design? What a joke to bring him, the rip-off artist himself?\"\r\n\r\nI
    know you hate Zvika Rosenberg for some reason, but let's try and keep the forums
    professional and not bring in your personal feelings.\r\n\r\n\r\nGoHebrew rephrases:\r\n\r\nWhy
    was Masterfont owner Tzvika Rosenberg brought as a witness, when all who with
    him realize he is not a talented artist, and simply a businessman?\r\n\r\nMy father
    zal taught as a small child to \"practice what I preach\". His father did not
    teach little Tzvika. He told him: \"Say whatever to get money\".\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:08:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael:\r\n\r\n> Finally, your rather rude comment about Rosenberg being
    a rip-off artist is not appropriate.\r\n\r\n\r\nI disagree. In the USA, we have
    freedom of speech, religion etc.\r\n\r\nIn Israel, tzaddikim were inprisoned by
    the PM Peres, because of kefiah datit and incitement.\r\n\r\nWhen the true messiah
    arrives, there will be a new government in Israel after the state is disbanded,
    the government of Dovid Melech Mashichei, and there will be peace on earth forever."
  created: '2010-10-14 20:16:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael:\r\n\r\n>> Tzvi Narkis was an internatially acclaimed font designer
    and certainly would not have worked with Rosenberg if he didn't think he was an
    upstanding honest business man.\r\n\r\nTzvi made a big mistake."
  created: '2010-10-14 20:17:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David and Scott:\r\n\r\nMy legal name is Scott Irwin.\r\nIn Hebrew, Shlome
    Yisroel was given to me at birth.\r\nIn English, this is Solomon Israel.\r\n\r\nFor
    business, I have a DBA as Israel, because most Americans can not say \"shl...\"
    I say that I'm Isreal, like the country.\r\n\r\nArabs hate saying Israel; to them,
    I'm Scott. Arabs call me Scott.\r\n\r\nIn England were you Raphael or Richard?"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:23:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David:\r\n\r\n>> Ahh, \"double agent\"  :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nActually, triple.
    I really work for G-d.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-14 20:25:26'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "1. My name is Raphael in all languages. Why should it be Richard?\r\n2. I
    am not a lawyer. I have no idea what the law is in the USA regarding copyright
    (nor am I much more knowledgeable about Israeli copyright law :-) )\r\n\r\nYou
    say:\r\n\r\n\"The US Copyright Office accepted this explanation, and issued me
    and those after me, US Copyright registration, granting me full intellectial property
    protection, even for Crown, inspired by the public domain design, that Eliyahu
    Koren claimed untruthfully for himself. The date was 1989.\"\r\n\r\nWhat public
    domain design are you referring to exactly? Are you saying that there is a public
    domain font called Koren that you have used as a basis for a font that looks like
    Koren that you call Crown and that Eliyahu Koren copied this font, which also
    happened to be called \"Koren\" and made his own font and that he lied and made
    up was his own?\r\n\r\nAre you also saying that the printed Koren Bible made in
    1962 which uses this illegal Koren font was a copy of the 1989 font and that Eliyahu
    Koren was in fact a Time Lord and sneekily got into his Tardis, jumped forward
    in time, saw this great public domain font called Koren, then jumped back in time,
    changed his name from Korengold to Koren just to make this up? You realise that
    this is impossible since Time Lords live for hundreds of years and Eliyahu Koren
    should therefore still be alive. Wow, I must write to the BBC. This could make
    a great episode of Dr Who.\r\n\r\nJust for the public record, Eliyahu Koren created
    his typeface for the Koren Bible that he printed in 1962. It was in all the newspapers
    of the time and we have the clippings in our offices. We also have the original
    drawings in my office and if any typophile readers are ever in Jerusalem, you
    have an open invitation to our offices in Talpiot to see some amazing history
    (which unfortunately doesn't correspond to gohebrew's version of history).\r\n\r\nEliyahu
    Koren was an employee of Koren Publishers Jerusalem for his entire life until
    he passed away. Koren Publishers Jerusalem Ltd have given exclusivity to sell
    our typeface/font/(again call it what you may) to Masterfont. I should also say
    of the public record that Scott/Israel/GoHebrew (however he wants to refer to
    himself) begged me on the phone for us to license the font to him/GoHebrew and
    not to Masterfont. \r\n\r\nNow it may be \"legal\" to copy/adapt/rip-off or whatever
    you want to call it. Maybe there is no law that protects the designer. I don't
    know. It seems that this recent Israeli ruling seems to side on protecting the
    designer, but it's early days. I'm sure Microsoft will appeal etc.\r\n\r\nBut
    since we are on a forum that discusses type, I'm curious, do members of this forum
    think it's okay to take a design such as Koren or Narkisim, and make their own
    versions of these fonts if the designer doesn't agree to this? GoHebrew states
    plainly and openly on this forum that they have created a typeface called Crown
    (which I would love to see) which has been \"inspired\" by the Koren font. Let's
    see some samples. Put up some words in the Crown font on this forum, I'll put
    the say words up in the original Koren font and let's see if\r\na) people think
    that it's the same and \r\nb) people think that it's okay (not from a legal point
    of view but from a typophile point of view) for gohebrew to do this. \r\n\r\nI
    am more curious to hear people's opinion on type design and interpretation on
    this forum rather than about the Coming of the Messiah (bimhera beyamenu -- sorry
    about the bit of Hebrew but it's kind of automatic for me too :-) )\r\n\r\nI would
    also be happy to post up, once gohebrew put's up some Crown examples, of the Koren
    Bible font, the Koren Siddur font and also Gutman's Keren font. I can also put
    up Masterfont's Koreen font which was Rosenberg's interpretation (not the same
    as the real thing) which was done with Eliyahu Koren's approval (and of course
    the company get's royalties on :-))\r\n\r\nThis would be an interesting exercise.
    \r\n\r\nI'll let gohebrew choose the text (but would make sure the text has the
    following letters: \u05D0, \u05DC, \u05E9, \u05E8, \u05EA."
  created: '2010-10-14 22:45:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Oy, a bunch of Jews arguing. This thread will stay on the front page until
    2017, at least.\r\n\r\n@nick\r\nExpert witnesses, yeah.\r\nAt least you didn't
    answer that the design was in 'the mind of G-d\" or 'David Berlow's garage'.\r\n\r\n@gohebrew\r\n<em>One
    uses this word, while another uses that word. This is like placing the BCPs, the
    bezier control points in a PostScript font here or there, although the result
    look similar. However, one way renders better than the other.</em>\r\nToday, in
    court, such decisions would be treated as unoriginal under the scene affair doctrine.
    These are decisions that flow logically from the circumstances - required by factors
    external to the \"program\", such as hardware or compatibility with other programs.
    Technical know-how is not creative expression.\r\nSoftware infringement cases
    are very different from, say, a novel or a screenplay.\r\n\r\n@raphaelfreeman\r\nThanks.\r\nYour
    link is the second source that flatly says MSFT's lawyers argued that neither
    fonts nor typefaces were copyrightable. And that the appropriate protection was
    the Israeli equivalent of a design patent.\r\n(Obviously, the judge felt the typeface
    rose to the level of Art.)\r\n\r\nHmmmm one more citation and it's a hat trick.\r\n\r\n@davidhamuel\r\nFirst,
    Hi.\r\nSecond, you seem to be drawing conclusions about fonts in general from
    the judge's ruling about this one particular font/typeface. Is there anything
    in the text of his ruling to give you this impression?\r\n\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2010-10-14 23:16:34'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Hi Richard,\r\n\r\nEverything is there.\r\n \r\n1. Now the judge Gruschkopf
    said in section 52 that effort by itself is not enough. -- see page 31, section
    52.\r\n\r\n2. the judge is not accepting the view that a typeface that was designed
    in the digital era..... -- see pp.21-22, sections 34 & 35.\r\n\r\n3. what is  functional?
    -- see page 30 sections 50 & 51 \r\n\r\nwhat else?"
  created: '2010-10-14 23:56:45'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> We also have the original drawings in my office and if any typophile readers
    are ever in Jerusalem, you have an open invitation to our offices in Talpiot to
    see some amazing history\r\n\r\nI plan on going to Israel at some point. I'm not
    sure when, but when I'm going I'll let you know. I'd love to see those drawings!"
  created: '2010-10-15 00:40:02'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael\r\n\r\n>> What public domain design are you referring to exactly?
    Are you saying that there is a public domain font...?\r\n\r\n\r\nNo. At RIT is
    housed a document which proves that the Askenazic-like drawing of the Hebrew alphabet
    was not invented by Eliyahu Koren, as some suggest, and was not drawn by him,
    as he suggested, and you believed (for monetary reasons).\r\n\r\nIt was drawn
    a very long time ago, and used in ancient documents of Biblical text.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 02:16:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael\r\n\r\n>>  Just for the public record, Eliyahu Koren created his
    typeface for the Koren Bible that he printed in 1962. It was in all the newspapers
    of the time and we have the clippings in our offices. We also have the original
    drawings in my office and if any typophile readers are ever in Jerusalem, you
    have an open invitation to our offices in Talpiot to see some amazing history
    (which unfortunately doesn't correspond to gohebrew's version of history).\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    is fiction.\r\n\r\nEliyahu Koren did not created the typeface named after his
    surname.  He simply popularized it.\r\n\r\nPublish your drawings in part on the
    Internet. Since it is only in part, the drawings can not be misused.\r\n\r\nI
    am currently attempting to obtain copies and historical evidence that Koren's
    drawing were directly based upon ancient manuscripts."
  created: '2010-10-15 02:22:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael\r\n\r\n>>  Eliyahu Koren was an employee of Koren Publishers Jerusalem
    for his entire life until he passed away. Koren Publishers Jerusalem Ltd have
    given exclusivity to sell our typeface/font/(again call it what you may) to Masterfont.
    I should also say of the public record that Scott/Israel/GoHebrew (however he
    wants to refer to himself) begged me on the phone for us to license the font to
    him/GoHebrew and not to Masterfont.\r\n\r\n\r\nAgain, this is merely fiction.\r\n\r\nI
    simply warned you not to work with ganef. Look at the time has passed, and has
    he even run Volt once on his Mac. :)\r\n\r\nI don't want that stolen work; go
    to John. I doubt if he'll take it. How 'bout Ofek - they know some of Volt."
  created: '2010-10-15 02:26:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "R\r\n\r\n>>> Crown (which I would love to see)\r\n\r\nSee the widths and
    metrics thread..."
  created: '2010-10-15 02:28:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\n>>  David Berlow's garage\r\n\r\nWow, what a treasure chest?
    old maps of Boston, and older type books... "
  created: '2010-10-15 02:32:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\n>>  scene affair doctrine\r\n\r\nWhat's that?"
  created: '2010-10-15 02:33:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  gohebrew: I am confused as to why you think that Koren
    would have any claim to Narkis's fonts.\r\n\r\nWhen Reuhl helped Frank, it was
    FrankReuhl.\r\nWhen Koren helped Narkiss, it was Narkiss.\r\n\r\nWas it a derivative
    work, a collabarative (sp) work, or a work for hire?\r\nWas Eliyahu working for
    Tzvi like a petty worker? Or did he lend Tzvi artistic/creative/technical skills
    which surpassed the job he did for Tzvi?\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  regarding whether Koren
    has copyright over it's fonts, nobody in the world (with the exception of you
    of course) disputes this.\r\n\r\nIf you see clear evidence the design was used
    before many generations ago, would you concede?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 02:44:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  Regarding Davka, (not Dafka), yes they did sell the Keren
    font and as soon as I started working there, I was in touch with them to ask them
    to stop selling it and they promptly did so not realising that this wasn't okay.
    So you are wrong. We did protest and they immediately stopped so your comment
    is incorrect and unfair to Davka who are an excellent company selling and excellent
    products which we use! (their website is www.davka.com).\r\n\r\nFunny, when I
    bought DavkaWriter 6, it was there. Did Alan burn new CDs afterwards?"
  created: '2010-10-15 02:48:37'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: Somebody tell us more about whatever injunction or lawsuit there was about
    Segoe.
  created: '2010-10-15 02:50:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It seems Alan removed it, like you said, Rephael.\r\n\r\nWhat is Gutman's
    Keren? How is my Crown different besides having better alignment?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 03:06:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill & Sii,\r\n\r\n>>  ... Indeed, Microsoft argued against the entire system
    of copywriting fonts: Fonts cannot be copyrighted; they should be considered designs,
    Microsoft argued. Designs of objects are protected by law for 15 years in Israel.
    ...\r\n\r\n\r\nThis, allegedly argued by Microsoft's attorneys , was untrue.\r\n\r\n\"Fonts
    cannot be copyrighted\" does not refer to outline font software, but rather to
    bitmap font software or \"mere digital data\".\r\n\r\nAs you know, Microsoft won
    a second lawsuit regarding the Comic typeface. Adobe won the first case against
    Swfyte for copying Adobe's fonts and renaming them, I believe in the mid-nineties.
    Microsoft cited the Adobe case as a precedent.\r\n\r\nAdobe's case was won based
    on my correspondence with the US Copyright Office, in which I explained clearly
    and logically why outline font software was not like bitmap font software or \"mere
    digital data\".\r\n\r\nI used a simple analogy to telling a similar story by different
    storytellers. The US Copyright Office accepted it in early 1989, and was the basis
    of both Adobe's and Microsoft's law suits.\r\n\r\nWhy did Microsoft present an
    untruthful argument?"
  created: '2010-10-15 04:07:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>> ... Designs of objects are protected by law for 15 years
    in Israel. ...\r\n\r\nHmmm\r\n\r\nWhy is there still a patent claim on Koren's
    alleged designs anymore?"
  created: '2010-10-15 04:20:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Joe, [[http://arstechnica.com/old/content/2006/04/6517.ars|here is a report
    on the Segoe ruling.]] \r\n\r\nAnd [[http://www.typophile.com/node/18257|here
    is a typophile thread]] on it. \r\n\r\nHow accurate either is I have no idea. "
  created: '2010-10-15 04:54:00'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "brianskywalker: you are cordially invited! I can even show you 3 Rashi typefaces
    that he drew, and sans serif, but none ever came to fruition. However, we are
    hoping to digitise one of the Rashi fonts.\r\n\r\ngohebrew: okay. I will try at
    the beginning of the week to scan in some of the pages and put them on the net.
    I think people will enjoy seeing that. \r\n\r\n\"Was it a derivative work, a collabarative
    (sp) work, or a work for hire? Was Eliyahu working for Tzvi like a petty worker?
    Or did he lend Tzvi artistic/creative/technical skills which surpassed the job
    he did for Tzvi?\"\r\n\r\nEr no. I'm not exactly how old Zvika is, but if Koren
    created the font at the tail end of the 1950s... I'm a little confused as to why
    you think there is a collaboration here. Masterfont did not design the Koren font.
    They digitised it. Masterfont sell the font exclusively for us, that's all. "
  created: '2010-10-15 08:22:04'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "\"It seems Alan removed it, like you said, Rephael.\"\r\n\r\nyep.\r\n\r\n\"What
    is Gutman's Keren?\" \r\nThat is the whole court case! Microsoft bought Gutman
    Keren from Gutman (and apparently Kivun according to Sii Daniels) and distributed
    it with Microsoft Office. The court case is whether this was okay or not. We contend
    not and it is in the court's hands to decide.\r\n\r\n\"How is my Crown different
    besides having better alignment?\"\r\nI don't know. I haven't seen Crown. Can
    you post the link (I couldn't find it). I know that Gutman based his font on Eliyahu
    Koren's work because that is what Gutman told me when I visited him once, I don't
    know what you based your work on.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 08:50:47'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Microsoft bought Gutman Keren from Gutman (and apparently Kivun\r\n\r\nSo,
    If Gutman is the source why you're chasing MS."
  created: '2010-10-15 09:03:16'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: Are you asking why is Microsoft being chased instead of Gutman or as well
    as?
  created: '2010-10-15 09:14:51'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ' Yes, why is Microsoft being chased.'
  created: '2010-10-15 09:17:36'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Again, \"instead of\" or \"as well as\"\r\n\r\nHowever, regardless of that
    particular question...\r\n\r\nDISCLAIMER: Please note that when I use the word
    \"copy\" or \"illegal\", this of course is poetic license until the court rules
    so please don't take offence at my language it's just easier to say it like that.\r\n\r\nThe
    Keren font was a copy (with a few changes) of the Koren font. Therefore this font
    was illegally created without permission of Koren who created the font. \r\n\r\nThe
    question is whether this is legal or not. Can Microsoft purchase an illegally
    created font and distribute it? This is the court case. \r\n\r\nIt seems that
    stage one has ruled in Koren's favour and not in Microsoft. We'll see what happens.
    I'm sure they will be appeals etc and the case will progress.\r\n\r\nI think it's
    very interesting for type designers to see how the court rules over the coming
    years. If an employee at Adobe create a typeface, say Minion, and then a freelancer
    makes a slight variation of the typeface and calls it Minon. Would it be okay
    for Microsoft to buy this typeface from this freelancer for $1,000 and distribute
    in Office 2012? Would that be okay? How about Adobe Garamond? Would that be okay,
    I mean Garamond is in the public domain.\r\n\r\nI wonder what Adobe's response
    would be?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 09:34:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  Er no. I'm not exactly how old Zvika is, but if Koren
    created the font at the tail end of the 1950s... I'm a little confused as to why
    you think there is a collaboration here. Masterfont did not design the Koren font.
    They digitised it. Masterfont sell the font exclusively for us, that's all.\r\n\r\n\r\nno,
    no, between tzvi n. and eliyahu k., not tzvika\r\ntzvika sold to apple for the
    apple mac when mac was born\r\ntzvi narkiss was already a star by then, and eliyahu
    k. was a great elder\r\n\r\nraphael, i think very highly of you\r\npeople think
    wrongly that i want to harm you\r\ni don't at all\r\ni held back crown from commercial
    release so your koren is alone"
  created: '2010-10-15 11:08:19'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I have no knowledge of any font collaboration between Eliyahu Koren and Tzvi
    Narkis. Narkis never mentioned this to me which is odd since he knew I was working
    at Koren. Although to be fair he was in an old-age home at the time. \r\n\r\nI
    am glad that you are not releasing Crown commercially. This is appreciated."
  created: '2010-10-15 11:13:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>> \"How is my Crown different besides having better alignment?\"\r\nI
    don't know. I haven't seen Crown. Can you post the link (I couldn't find it).
    I know that Gutman based his font on Eliyahu Koren's work because that is what
    Gutman told me when I visited him once, I don't know what you based your work
    on.\r\n\r\nvery rare drawings, research at rit, and my eye for detail to improve
    crown.\r\n\r\ni want to create a few kinds of crown: crown jewls, crown royal,
    etc., to be better than koren, a modern version, an ancient version (an authentic
    version like what eliyahu saw in his old draawings that an ancient drew - not
    his personal drawings which he drew, and that you have)"
  created: '2010-10-15 11:15:07'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: Have you seen Koren's original version of his font. He typeset Sefer Yonah
    (The Book of Jonah) with it. It was done by hand.
  created: '2010-10-15 11:25:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\n>> I have no knowledge of any font collaboration between
    Eliyahu Koren and Tzvi Narkis. \r\n\r\nbut i read this here. isn't it in the article.\r\n\r\nto
    me it made no sense. why would eliyahu need narkiss? only for the technical knowledge
    narkiss had that eliyahu did not, as eliyahu only new older technology from early
    electronic typesetting, but narkiss knew newer technology and had better contacts.\r\n\r\nso
    you say the whole issue is that microsoft licensed karen not koren\r\nso what
    is arial hebrew - isn't it narkiss?\r\nit used to look like narkiss\r\n\r\nif
    karen has difference than koren, why is it a knock-off?\r\n\r\nbtw i would license
    crown on a non-commercial basis as a custom font only for internal use.\r\nthat
    couldn't hurt you.\r\n\r\nagain, bill, what narkiss did to that concentration
    camp victim is sick. i hope he did teshuva. his estate should give a big donation
    to holocaust survivors. this nothing nothing to do with l'dann zechus. and tzvika
    is a bum. watch out for that scum."
  created: '2010-10-15 11:29:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\ni have no interest to digitise koren for kp\r\n\r\nnone\r\n\r\nlet
    us only be friends"
  created: '2010-10-15 11:30:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  Have you seen Koren's original version of his font. He
    typeset Sefer Yonah (The Book of Jonah) with it. It was done by hand.\r\n\r\n\r\nno.
    nothing. just a jerusalem bible which i thought was lousy.\r\n\r\nbtw, realize
    i have everything to reproduce a bible like it but without those flaws\r\nbut
    gohebrew decided not to offer it commercial\r\nnot because you have any rights
    which i contend that its all hype\r\nbut simply because of hasagat gevul - to
    enable another jew to make parnasa"
  created: '2010-10-15 11:35:13'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: " >> I have no knowledge of any font collaboration between Eliyahu Koren and
    Tzvi Narkis. \r\n>>>but i read this here. isn't it in the article.\r\nnope.\r\n\r\n>>to
    me it made no sense. why would eliyahu need narkiss? only for the technical knowledge
    narkiss had that eliyahu did not, as eliyahu only new older technology from early
    electronic typesetting, but narkiss knew newer technology and had better contacts.\r\nno
    no. Eliyahu Koren's (Bible) font [which is one being discussed] was only made
    in lead. I decided to digitise it recently after I joined the company many years
    after Koren's death. I never knew Koren.\r\n\r\n>>so you say the whole issue is
    that microsoft licensed karen not koren\r\nthey licensed Keren from Gutman. correct.
    Sorry for the spelling correction, but it's critical in this conversation.\r\n\r\n>>
    so what is arial hebrew - isn't it narkiss?\r\nno, it looks vaguely similar to
    NarkisTam. The argument is about the font Narkisim. Both typefaces created by
    Tzvi Narkis.\r\n\r\n>>if karen has difference than koren, why is it a knock-off?\r\naha!
    well that is really for the court to decide, but from what I understand the font
    has to be significantly different (there is some method of defining this) and
    Keren is not different enough in our opinion. Again, this is for the court decide.\r\n\r\n>>btw
    i would license crown on a non-commercial basis as a custom font only for internal
    use. that couldn't hurt you.\r\nAgain, I have never seen Crown. If it is significantly
    different, then there is no problem and you can commercially sell it, but if it's
    very similar then clearly I cannot condone it and I would prefer that you purchased
    it like everybody else purchases fonts.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 11:46:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\nthank you for the clarification about ms licensing keren
    for office\r\nso why is borech gorkin here? he made arial hebrew. a great job.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    if it's very similar then clearly I cannot condone it and I would prefer that
    you purchased it like everybody else purchases fonts.\r\n\r\ni don't need to buy
    fonts b/c i made and make more that you conjure up\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\ni sell both
    commercial fonts for $350 and $750\r\nand custom fonts for $1500 to $15,000\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nif
    my crown is similar (better), why should i buy koren? \r\n\r\ni simply want to
    sell it as a custom font as a license and with a contract that says the customer
    can only use it conventionally for editing text and making pdfs to print with\r\nno
    derivative works\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nan idea: \r\nsell me one user license to koren\r\ni
    trash it and license my crown for a custom font\r\nthe customer can't sell it\r\n\r\n1.
    do you sell a single license for resale one time\r\n2. how much?"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:08:29'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: ">> thank you for the clarification about ms licensing keren for office\r\n
    so why is borech gorkin here?\r\ndunno. Ask Baruch!\r\n\r\n>> i don't need to
    buy fonts b/c i made and make more that you conjure up\r\n>> i sell both commercial
    fonts for $350 and $750\r\n>> and custom fonts for $1500 to $15,000\r\nI don't
    make fonts. We make books. See www.korenpub.com\r\n\r\n>> if my crown is similar,
    why should i buy koren. i simply want to sell it as a custom >> font as a license
    and with a contract that says the customer can only use it \r\n>> conventionally
    for editing text and making pdfs to print with no derivative works\r\nAgain, I
    don't condone this. I don't know if it's legal. \r\n\r\n>> an dea: sell me a user
    license to koren\r\n>> i trash it and license my crown for a custom font\r\n>>
    \ 1. do you ell a license for resale one time\r\n>> 2. how much?\r\nAll licensing
    and sales of the Koren typefaces are done via Masterfont. You'll have to be in
    touch with them. They are a font foundry, we are a publishing house. You really
    have to put your personal feelings towards the owner of the font foundry and speak
    to them if you want to use Koren in some way that we deem as legal.\r\n\r\nI should
    also point out that the Ministry of Defence Publishing House used the Keren font
    to create their own Bible. Even though their *use* of the font was not in any
    way illegal (they got with Microsoft Word like everyone else), their publishing
    of the Bible was considered to be and they were ordered by the court to stop selling
    their Bibles since it looked too much like the Koren Bible. So if you create a
    font in the way that you suggest, then even though you may not get into any deep
    water, your client could. You should be aware of this. "
  created: '2010-10-15 12:18:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>> > if my crown is similar, why should i buy koren. i simply
    want to sell it as a custom >> font as a license and with a contract that says
    the customer can only use it\r\n>> conventionally for editing text and making
    pdfs to print with no derivative works\r\nAgain, I don't condone this. I don't
    know if it's legal.\r\n\r\n\r\nIt's sure not illegal here.\r\n\r\nEven in Israel,
    it should be legal, because I made it from sources that he did not have.\r\n\r\nSo,
    why would it be illegal?"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:23:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> ...via Masterfont\r\n\r\nforget the idea.\r\n\r\nhagonave meh haganav,
    pattur.\r\n\r\nif one steals from a thief then he's exempt.\r\nkol sh'kayn certainly
    then if he doesn't steal.\r\n\r\ni'll be a nice guy for you, but not not for a
    scumbag. let jesus turn his cheek.\r\n\r\nis he selling it yet now?\r\nhow much?\r\nadd
    a zero, and i sell mine."
  created: '2010-10-15 12:27:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> speak to them if you want to use Koren in some way that we deem as legal\r\n\r\n\r\nhow
    many eggs can you suck?"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:28:52'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "if you made the font from a basis that Mr Koren didn't have (and thank you
    for clarifying that point because earlier it seemed that you contended that he
    made his font based on this source), and if this source predates Mr Koren by many
    generations, then I seriously doubt that your font looks anything like the Koren
    font and there will be no problem.\r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, they look the
    same, then there is something rather interesting and strange going on. Again without
    seeing your font this is all conjecture.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:30:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I should also point out that the Ministry of Defence Publishing House
    used the Keren font to create their own Bible. Even though their *use* of the
    font was not in any way illegal (they got with Microsoft Word like everyone else),
    their publishing of the Bible was considered to be and they were ordered by the
    court to stop selling their Bibles since it looked too much like the Koren Bible.\r\n\r\nwhy
    not sue the idf? you could have every jew hate you.\r\n\r\nyou could make a deal
    with the devil\r\nand the have the nazis buy from you instead of ibm"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:31:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>   So if you create a font in the way that you suggest, then even though
    you may not get into any deep water, your client could. You should be aware of
    this.\r\n\r\n\r\nwe write in a disclaimer for him.\r\nplus his work is private
    and non-commercial\r\nnon-profit"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:33:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  if you made the font from a basis that Mr Koren didn't have (and thank
    you for clarifying that point because earlier it seemed that you contended that
    he made his font based on this source), and if this source predates Mr Koren by
    many generations, then I seriously doubt that your font looks anything like the
    Koren font and there will be no problem.\r\n\r\nwho knows what he had.\r\nhe had
    drawings that he drew while looking at something.\r\ndid he trace it. maybe he
    has no rights at all.\r\nreally public domain.\r\ni think your boss bought the
    brooklyn bridge"
  created: '2010-10-15 12:35:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>>  If, on the other hand, they look the same, then there is something rather
    interesting and strange going on. Again without seeing your font this is all conjecture.\r\n\r\nif
    eliyahu saw the rit drawings, then they would surely look the same\r\n\r\nnow,
    i'm convinced that koren is a knock-off of something very old.\r\n\r\nhashem should
    have mercy for his soul.\r\nhe was a dati? modern mizrachii or kooknik?\r\n\r\nyou
    described him as a such a great pro... maybe a typesetter."
  created: '2010-10-15 12:39:50'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Why should we sue the IDF? The IDF our now our largest customer.\r\n\r\nDo
    you read what I write? Do you read what you write before you post?\r\n\r\nDo you
    think about what other people think when they read what you write?\r\n\r\nGoodness,
    you asked me a question about whether you could license the font. I answered you
    politely and correctly. I didn't ask you to post slander on the web. Freedom of
    speech is one thing, being sensible is quite another.\r\n\r\nI think that the
    moment the conversation turns devils and nazis and thiefs, then perhaps that thread
    should be taken off-line and you can write to me whatever you want privately.
    Let's keep this forum about typography, fonts etc. \r\n\r\nIn that vein, and since
    we are not a legal or intellectual property forum, I would really like to hear
    what people's opinions on, and excuse the terms, \"knock-off's\", \"revevials\"
    etc."
  created: '2010-10-15 12:40:09'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: ">>>who knows what he had.\r\n he had drawings that he drew while looking
    at something.\r\n did he trace it. maybe he has no rights at all.\r\n really public
    domain.\r\n i think your boss bought the brooklyn bridge\r\n\r\nThat's not the
    impression that I get from people who worked with him. Now let's avoid slandering
    my boss because he will take offence at such comments and he is really nice guy.\r\n
    \r\n>>>> now, i'm convinced that koren is a knock-off of something very old.\r\n\r\nThank
    goodness you are not the judge in this court case then :-)\r\n\r\nBTW what is
    and where is RIT? Excuse my ignorance."
  created: '2010-10-15 12:49:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here is beta sample of my Crown:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crown
    sample two_3882.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-15 13:07:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A few side-bearings need to be adjusted. I didn't touch it since 1989.\r\n\r\nI
    have lameds with a curled top, nikkud, taam etc. Yiddish and wide forms, too.
    I think the tzaddi(k) and zayin needs to be raised, and the final feh tilted to
    the left a bit.\r\n\r\nRaphael, does it look like Eliyahu's? Can you post it?"
  created: '2010-10-15 13:13:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What was slander?\r\nIf Koren took the design exactly, and didn't recognize
    the source, he violated Avot."
  created: '2010-10-15 13:15:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A knock-off, imo (Brian) is no knock-off but a great service.\r\nThe source
    is clearly mentioned.\r\n\r\nA knock-off does not mention the source. Money is
    the only motivation."
  created: '2010-10-15 13:18:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "By looking at Crown now, it wasn't really intended for Biblical text. \r\nThat
    was Koren's innovation and commercial motivation. \r\nI added a 'curly' lamed
    for that purpose."
  created: '2010-10-15 13:38:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "RIT, like MIT (the school for genuises) is in Rochester, NY.\r\n\r\nRIT stands
    for Rochester Institute of Technology. It is mainly funded by the US government's
    CIA, the Central Intelligence Agency, to give the Defence Department an edge over
    its enemies. It has a 25 year lead time over everyone.\r\n\r\nIsrael's Mosad exchanges
    information with them.\r\n\r\nWhat does this have to with type?\r\n\r\nThe same
    technology used for advanced imaging was created for type, and is used by intelligence
    agencies, like the explanation of 2 45 degree birds eye view images in Photoshop
    which can detect underground nuclear weapons The Israelis discoved a way to take
    this information and destroy those weapons of mass descruction through brilliaqnt
    software code. If the Iranians ever release their missiles, they will return and
    flatten Iran.\r\n\r\nRochester houses the imaging center of the world, and RIT
    masters it in imaging, type, paper, and print.\r\n\r\nThe brains in Silicon Valley
    add the software."
  created: '2010-10-15 13:40:50'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "your font is very interesting. It definately looks like a version of Koren
    in my eyes. However, it is further away from Koren than Keren is. I am willing
    to bet that 99% of Israelis would think it's Koren.\r\n\r\nNow what is more interesting
    is the \"source\" of your font. You claim it's a public domain font from many
    generations ago. I would love to see that source font and the date of it. You
    surely must have it if you created this font based on it."
  created: '2010-10-15 13:50:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crown sample three_6097.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-15 13:58:52'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: this is your version. Where is the source?
  created: '2010-10-15 14:00:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  You claim it's a public domain font \r\n\r\nnot a font it was hand drawn.\r\nkoren
    is a metal type font\r\ncrown is an advanced opentype volt made using volt\r\ntzvika
    doesn't know volt\r\njohn does, but his volt is buggy\r\nmine isn't"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:02:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "the drawing is from before there was printing\r\nno source code\r\njust a
    great hand-drawn art\r\nwhere did eliyahu find it?"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:04:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "the source is in rit\r\nit could be nowhere else\r\nthere was no internet
    as we know it\r\nit wasn't in a book\r\ni think the rit librarian gave me about
    a hundred photo-copies\r\nmaybe he remebers\r\nhe knew what to give me\r\nmaybe
    i pick it out\r\nhow would he know\r\nask scott for his name, if he didn't retire
    yet"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:07:56'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Koren is a digital opentype font with automatic positioning of nikud and
    taamim and of course with kerning too :-). The VOLT programming was NOT done by
    Masterfont. It was done by Koren Publishers Jerusalem. Masterfont SELLS the font
    not programs it.\r\n\r\nSo do you have thisw great hand-drawn art that is over
    300 years old? I would love to see it."
  created: '2010-10-15 14:08:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "the text i saw had no nikkud etc\r\ni added that from whaat john drew for
    heni\r\nhenri is my hadasa\r\nfriedlander himself approved it\r\nhe said that
    it was the closest to his first drawings\r\nwhich was a huge compliment from him\r\nhe
    cried like baby\r\nand taught me secrets of hebrew type\r\ni published it elsewhere\r\n\r\ni
    have no secrets to hide,\r\nbut eliyahu a\"h had a big secret"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:12:06'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: 'again, you keep talking about this famous source. Can you provide a link
    to it? Can you scan it and put it online? '
  created: '2010-10-15 14:14:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "i have my source code\r\ni created it\r\ni registered it for copyright in
    1989\r\ni even went to washington  dc to the library of congress\r\ni exchanged
    correspondance with that office for 3 months\r\nback and forth\r\nthey conced
    in the end\r\n\r\ni recognize no rights to you at all\r\nit's all chesed - one
    frum jew to another\r\n\r\nif the court grants gutman the rights\r\ni surely have
    the rights b/c of your comments\r\nthat my crown is further from koren than keren\r\n\r\nthat
    means eliyahu embellished it\r\ni didn't\r\nonly mine is a revival of the original"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:18:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Koren is a digital opentype font with automatic positioning of nikud and
    taamim and of course with kerning too :-).\r\n\r\ni bet its buggy\r\n\r\nsend
    me a pdf in private\r\ni'll annotate the bugs\r\nif you want i can fix it."
  created: '2010-10-15 14:20:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "i wish i had the art\r\nrit does\r\nthey don't lend it out\r\nwhen my parents
    moved in 1996, they threw out the copies\r\neasy come, easy..."
  created: '2010-10-15 14:22:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> again, you keep talking about this famous source. Can you provide a link
    to it? Can you scan it and put it online?\r\n\r\n\r\ncan you please post the csource
    for his drawings.\r\n\r\nare you saying he drew them from scratch?\r\n\r\nhow
    dumb do you think we all are?"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:24:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "my current source are fog files from 89\r\n\r\ni think i have the source
    code printed out for the us copyright registration\r\ni think i kept it\r\n\r\nanyway
    washington filed it\r\nthey must show you, if you are a us citizen\r\nthere may
    be a fee\r\n\r\ndo you wanna sue the us govt. too?\r\n\r\nfirst microsoft\r\nthen
    the us govt\r\nthen warren buffet  (he owns the usa and israel)"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:28:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "i think i made the bold for crown and queen esther\r\n(hadasa or henri) from
    a different source\r\nsome big artwork i bought at a flea market"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:31:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\nwhy is this a patent suit if your patent expired?"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:40:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "hey, i go to gutman instead of kp\r\nbecause i don't go to ganavim\r\nand
    he has a good name\r\nwould this influence the judge?\r\n\r\nwhere's he live?
    b'nei brak.\r\nwho did alan of davka get from?"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:48:03'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "regarding the legalities, again the court has to decide. Let's leave that
    process to them... it will take months or even years, but I think that is the
    beyond the scope of my knowledge and my ability.\r\n\r\nregarding our font. It's
    rather rude of you to say that you bet it's buggy. Why should it be buggy? The
    programmer is an expert at this and did a superb job. I have yet to find a bug
    in the font -- it works perfectly. \r\n\r\nnow let me get this right. \r\n\r\nSome
    time before 1989 you saw some hand drawings of some letters which you converted
    into a font. These drawings you no longer have any copy of digital or otherwise
    because your parents threw them out in 1996. Your created your font baaed on these
    drawings.\r\n\r\nNow may I assume that you were in now way influenced by the official
    Koren font which is extremely common place and had been since 1962 and that your
    typeface was created purely from these drawings?\r\n\r\nI am not in the USA, but
    I wonder if RIT has internet access now and could e-mail you a scan of some of
    the letters. I bet they've digitally archived all their drawings and this would
    be an easy task. I also bet they have dated it too. \r\n\r\nI'm not really sure
    how Eliyahu Koren could have come by these drawings. He escaped Nazi Germany and
    came straight to Israel. He worked on the fonts here in Israel and had no money
    -- he nearly went bankrupt in the process of making the Tanakh but that is whole
    other story.\r\n\r\nAlso it is important to note that he actually started with
    a prototype of the typeface which he did by hand and created the book of Jonah.
    He used this to try and get financial interest in the project. The final Koren
    (Bible) font was an evolution of this font and this early font looks very very
    different to your version. In fact your version looks more similar to Masterfont's
    Koreen. Since Masterfont's Koreen came out before you got your copyright on the
    font, then your copyright is probably invalidated and in fact he may have a case
    against you. (Let's hope he doesn't read these forums eh!)\r\n\r\nfinally, you
    say:\r\n\"ask scott for his name, if he didn't retire yet\"\r\n\r\num, you are
    Scott. We have already established that on this thread. If you are confused as
    to who you are, check youself out on facebook. You even have a picture of yourself
    and your family members there."
  created: '2010-10-15 14:48:28'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "* Well his drawings are kind of copyright so I can't post them. Sorry.\r\n*
    Yes I am absolutely saying that he drew his fonts from scratch. I don't think
    that anybody is dumb.\r\n* I am not a US citizen. I don't know what to ask for
    exactly. I never saw this drawing.\r\n* No, I don't want to sue the US govt.\r\n\r\nNow
    this is more intersting, you write:\r\n\"think i made the bold for crown and queen
    esther\r\n (hadasa or henri) from a different source\r\n some big artwork i bought
    at a flea market\"\r\n\r\nSo you drew the font from a book you saw at a flea market.
    Is it possible that the font was the Koren font that Mr Koren created? I thought
    you said that you based your Crown font on a drawing that is generations old that
    is stored at RIT. Now you are saying you copied it from a book that you bought
    in a flea market.\r\n\r\n* I didn't say it was a patent suit. \r\n* Good luck
    going to Gutman z\"l, but I should warn you, he passed away some time ago. But
    he lived in Jerusalem. Davka (I don't know if it was Alan, but it could have been)
    licenced the fonts from Gutman. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 14:56:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Oh and I don't appreciate you calling Koren Publishers Jerusalem, thieves
    (you used the Hebrew ganavim).\r\n\r\nAs a director of the company, I take personal
    insult from your comment. "
  created: '2010-10-15 14:59:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael, Sii\r\n\r\n>> regarding our font. It's rather rude of you to say
    that you bet it's buggy. Why should it be buggy? The programmer is an expert at
    this and did a \r\n\r\nthe current version has three serious GSUB bugs which affect
    diacritical marks for every language which uses diacriticals, like Biblical Hebrew
    and Vocalized Hebrew.\r\n\r\nI spent close to year creating versions after versions,
    installing and test each, so many times... until I defined the bugs and wrote
    new programs to avoid these terrible results.\r\n\r\nI have never seen anyone's
    fonts that use Volt that did not have these results. Except mine.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:10:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Your created your font baaed on these drawings.\r\n\r\ncopies of these
    drawings, or copies of copies"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:11:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Now may I assume that you were in now way influenced by the official Koren
    font which is extremely common place and had been since 1962 and that your typeface
    was created purely from these drawings?\r\n\r\ni own and still use a dinky version
    to jerusalem bible with english to look up a verse to read the translation\r\n\r\nthe
    hebrew sucks\r\n\r\nsmall, no tiny\r\nlousy typesetting\r\nbarely legible font\r\ntaamim
    nikkud way too low\r\n\r\ni use it for the english because i avoid the reform
    and christian translations"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:16:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I am not in the USA, but I wonder if RIT has internet access now and could
    e-mail you a scan of some of the letters. I bet they've digitally archived all
    their drawings and this would be an easy task. I also bet they have dated it too.\r\n\r\n\r\nif
    its online\r\nevery book i mean\r\ni doubt it\r\nif it is, please tell me\r\n\r\nif
    microsoft got it, they'd win the case"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:18:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> I'm not really sure how Eliyahu Koren could have come by these drawings.
    He escaped Nazi Germany and came straight to Israel. He worked on the fonts here
    in Israel \r\n\r\nhe got in germany.\r\nthen its there too\r\nmaybe at linotype\r\nthey
    bought almost every small foundry in europe as friedlaender said\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:22:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Also it is important to note that he actually started with a prototype
    of the typeface which he did by hand and created the book of Jonah.\r\n\r\nwhere
    did he create the prototype?"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:23:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Since Masterfont's Koreen came out before you got your copyright on the
    font, then your copyright is probably invalidated and in fact he may have a case
    against you. (Let's hope he doesn't read these forums eh!)\r\n\r\nknowing him,
    he ganvened it too from someone\r\ndoes he read?\r\n\r\ni'm afraid of only hashem.\r\na
    lawsuit is great publicity.\r\nsue tzvika sue!"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:26:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  finally, you say:\r\n\"ask scott for his name, if he didn't retire yet\"\r\n\r\num,
    you are Scott. We have already established that on this thread. If you are confused
    as to who you are, check youself out on facebook. You even have a picture of yourself
    and your family members there.\r\n\r\n====\r\n\r\n\r\nScott-Martin Kesofsky\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/39882\r\n\r\nthe
    head librarian is a very tall sweet thin from crown heights brooklyn\r\nmust have
    been rich as ch was the richest part of town\r\nhome of chabad-lubavitch today
    and then\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:31:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "i am not every scott, of course\r\n\r\njust one bottle washer\r\n\r\ni use
    the name scott there because non-jews view it too, and that's my name\r\n\r\nshlome
    is my hebrew name\r\n\r\nisrael is my business name\r\n\r\ni am shlome yisroel\r\n\r\nnow
    do you understand, richard?\r\n(richard obm was my very dearest friend in israel
    and from manchester uk - when i was a kid; he was killed in the first lebanese
    war by a hezbollah bastard. he left a young lonely wife who became a chabadnik,
    and a baby girl. may his memory be blessed. hashem yakum damav)"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:39:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> So you drew the font from a book you saw at a flea market. Is it possible
    that the font was the Koren font that Mr Koren created? I thought you said that
    you based your Crown font on a drawing that is generations old that is stored
    at RIT. Now you are saying you copied it from a book that you bought in a flea
    market.\r\n\r\nno the BOLD weight was made from drawings i bought featured in
    a book. i scanned it, as it was out of print and very old.\r\n\r\nread my words."
  created: '2010-10-15 15:42:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "so gutman died.\r\nwho got his font rights?\r\ndid he leave a will?"
  created: '2010-10-15 15:43:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "i never called kp thieve.\r\ntzvika is the ganev. why did your boss go to
    him?\r\nhamenavel eem hamenuval, meetnavel."
  created: '2010-10-15 15:45:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: raphael, you are gettng insulted from your own misreads, like bill
  created: '2010-10-15 15:46:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "[By this point in the conversation, this response might be considered an
    aside.]\r\n\r\nRich: <em>This has me confused. (You know, I confuse easily.)\r\nFor
    a design patent, you have to have drawings, right? Which, under your definition
    is yet another implementation of \"the design\".\r\nSo, if these are all \"implementations\"
    of \"the design\", where does the actual \"design\" exist?</em>\r\n\r\nA set of
    drawings (or even a printout or PDF showing a typeface, which is a typical US
    design patent submission document these days) is not an implementation of the
    design, it is a showing of the design. An implementation of a typeface is a font,
    i.e. a functional tool for setting type. What distinguishes the design from the
    font is that the same design can be implemented in multiple formats or technologies,
    and even if the manufacturing demands of these technologies affect alterations
    to shapes, the overall sense of the design remains intact and identifiably the
    same. It is in this distinction, and the gap that it opens between a protected
    design and a protected implementation, that the lawyers make their money."
  created: '2010-10-15 19:02:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks for returning to the topic, John!
  created: '2010-10-15 19:20:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "john,\r\n\r\nwhat makes all the versions of baskerville valid new and unique
    versions??\r\nwhat makes new times roman not an avenue of theft from linotype?"
  created: '2010-10-15 21:52:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>what makes all the versions of baskerville valid new and unique versions?</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    not all new or unique relative to each other, but some are new and unique in themselves
    and none of them are slavish copies of a design by John Baskerville and John Handy
    in 18th Century England. They're all interpretations of a style, because the original
    Baskerville design only exists in artefacts produced by lost fonts, i.e. books,
    <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg\">and you won't find any
    single instance of a letter on the page that is identical to another</a>. The
    original design is obscured behind the printing process, and hence any \u2018revival\u2019
    is a work of interpretation and production of a new design, not of direct implementation
    of the original design.\r\n\r\n<em>what makes new times roman not an avenue of
    theft from linotype?</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.truetype-typography.com/articles/times.htm"
  created: '2010-10-16 00:54:24'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "\"no the BOLD weight was made from drawings i bought featured in a book.
    i scanned it, as it was out of print and very old.\"\r\nI would love to see that
    scan. Can you post it?\r\n\r\n\"tzvika is the ganev. why did your boss go to him?\"\r\nMy
    boss didn't go to him. I did. Please stop calling him a thief on these forums.
    Freedom of speech is one thing, slander is another. \r\n \r\n\"where did he create
    the prototype?\"\r\nAt work of course! We have a picture of him doing it in our
    offices as you walk in and also you might be interested in a picture of him working
    on the final font on our website:\r\nhttp://www.korenpub.com/HE/static/about\r\n\r\n\"i
    own and still use a dinky version to jerusalem bible with english to look up a
    verse to read the translation the hebrew sucks small, no tiny lousy typesetting
    barely legible font taamim nikkud way too low\"\r\n\r\nWell that Bible is considered
    by many to be the most beautiful Hebrew typesetting ever done in history, but
    each to their own opinion. The Nikud and Taamim of course were done by hand since
    in the late 50s Adobe had yet to invent OpenType. Anyway, we have reset this Bible
    with much larger English using Adobe's beautiful Arno Pro font. It's a chunky
    monkey but very legible: Here is the English link to this Bible in case you want
    to upgrade your current Bible:\r\nhttp://www.korenpub.com/EN/products/tanakh/sifrei_tanakh/9789653011762"
  created: '2010-10-16 22:41:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The typeface shown here as \"Crown\" does resemble the serif typeface called
    \"Narkism\" in one illustration of the different Hebrew typefaces available on
    Windows that I've seen on the Web - but the news article shows the \"Narkism\"
    face in question to be a sans-serif one. This puzzles me.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    the Shalom typestyle used on Selectric elements looks somewhat similar to these
    as well, but perhaps not similar enough."
  created: '2010-10-17 00:16:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John Savard,\r\n\r\nNo, my Crown font does not resemble the Narkissim font.\r\n\r\nHere
    is my font:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crown sample two_4082.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHere
    is the Narkissim font:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Narkisim_4330.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf
    narkissim_5708.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 01:14:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "My font does look family to an early version of Koren.\r\n\r\n\r\nMy font:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crown
    sample two_5707.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nEliyahu Koren's Koren - his latest version:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf
    koren_4477.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 01:26:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Althous many letters are in deed similar, as it appears that Koren early
    versions and original were both based on the same source, Koren's final clearly
    contains many optimized changes for printing that mine does not have, as it was
    hand-drawn and not made for a medium that did not exist yet.\r\n\r\nI only are
    looking at these 10 letter difference as seen in Tzvika Rosenberg of Masterfont's
    digitised version of Koren.\r\n\r\nMost obvious is the poor spacing or kerning
    between the lamed (on the right) and the yud (on the left), as seen here: \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf
    koren li_4137.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nLokk at the difference between he lamed (on the
    right) and the yud (on the left), and the difference between he lamed (on the
    right) and the chof (on the left), as seen here:\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf
    koren lc_5231.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe problem here is not in the design but the type
    philosophy of the dizitizer. He has many bad typography attitudes which in my
    view render him a non-professional etc.\r\n\r\nHe once told me in the mid eighties
    when his Masterfont was still his dream, and he rode on a bicycle then to appointments,
    for whatever reason, long before it was cool and environmentally idealistic:\r\n\r\n\"The
    hirik or shva position beneath the daleth or reish should be positioned on the
    right of bottom leg, so the viewer can distinguish it apart\".\r\nI retorted that
    \"Jews have correctly placed underneath since we have had nikkud\".\r\n\r\nClearly,
    his ideas do not conform with aesthetics or traditions.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dd_3736.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nThere
    may seem minor issues. But we are dealing with holy books in Hebrew, ancient scribal
    traditions, which good Hebrew typesetting should emulates, as Maimonides rules
    in the laws regarding the writing of a Sefer Torah in his Mishnah Torah codex
    of Jewish laws.\r\n\r\nOne who deviates from these traditions is considered invalid.
    Creativity should allocated to that which is permissible.\r\n\r\nWhen one creates
    a font on the Apple Macintosh, the time and date is recoded permanently. I reviwed
    fonts from various font maker from Israel. Almost every font was created on the
    Sabbath, in violation of the Bible and Jewish law. What cares I, or what cares
    anyone? Everyone is free to do whatever the wish.\r\n\r\nBut holy books are different,
    say I. A prayerbook or a Bible should respect the Sabbath. No, Raphael?"
  created: '2010-10-17 02:28:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Now, let's look at Eliyahu Koren's final version of Koren, as poorly digitized
    by Tzvika Rosenberg:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf koren d_4434.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    let us compare it my GH Crown's version, based upon the save ancient artwork used
    by Eliyahu Koren:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gh crown d_5655.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDo
    you see how the vertical bar on the left of Koren's optimized or embellished version
    is thickened, and lacks elegance, to print well at small sizes of paper?\r\n\r\nSee
    how the original version slopes narrower and narrower as it descends, which can
    produce excellently today, with higher resolution screens, even at smaller sizes
    on poorer grade thinner paper."
  created: '2010-10-17 02:48:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Also, the original daleth which Crown revives is wider, as Koren made it narrow,
    very like to save paper.
  created: '2010-10-17 02:51:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\n>> ... you won't find any single instance of a letter on the
    page that is identical to another. ..\r\n\r\nThis seems like a definition.\r\n\r\n\r\nRaphael,
    the same height, is this true of Shmuel Gutman's Keren, versus Eliyahu Koren's
    Koren.\r\n\r\nAre are seeing this clearly with my GH Crowm?"
  created: '2010-10-17 02:57:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Now, let's look at Eliyahu Koren's final version of Koren, as poorly digitized
    by Tzvika Rosenberg:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf koren ches_4828.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    let us compare it my GH Crown's version, based upon the save ancient artwork used
    by Eliyahu Koren:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gh crown ches_5188.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDo
    you see how the vertical bar on the right and left of Koren's optimized or embellished
    version is thickened, and lacks elegance, to print well at small sizes of paper?\r\n\r\nSee
    how the original version slopes narrower and narrower as it descends, which can
    produce excellently today, with higher resolution screens, even at smaller sizes
    on poorer grade thinner paper."
  created: '2010-10-17 03:21:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Now, let's look at Eliyahu Koren's final version of Koren, as poorly digitized
    by Tzvika Rosenberg:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mf koren nuhn_6305.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    let us compare it my GH Crown's version, based upon the save ancient artwork used
    by Eliyahu Koren:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gh crown nuhn_6644.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDo
    you see how the vertical bar on the bottom of Koren's optimized or embellished
    version is thickened, and lacks elegance, to print well at small sizes of paper?\r\n\r\nSee
    how the original version slopes narrower and narrower as it descends, which can
    produce excellently today, with higher resolution screens, even at smaller sizes
    on poorer grade thinner paper."
  created: '2010-10-17 03:29:41'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "For anyone who's wondering, I've tried to contact RIT and am awaiting their
    response. I am interested in seeing how this turns out.\r\n\r\nI should note,
    though, that the rounded edges in the Koren and Crown typesfaces looks like ink
    squash, which would make me think that they would have to be based upon a printed
    and not written document. But I think that's also possible with ink bleed, or
    scribal intention (shrug), so we'll see.\r\n\r\nOn Crown being higher quality
    than Rosenberg's digital version of Koren, I hope I don't make anyone mad, but
    I'm having trouble seeing much difference. There are some small variations, yes
    and improvements, but that even seems negligible. If I wasn't told that I was
    looking ay Koren and Crown, I would think I was looking at different versions
    of the same font. There are small differences in each that look like they might
    be more closely based upon scribal works, but the differences aren't too big.
    Crown also has widths that vary quite a bit.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm a bit confused."
  created: '2010-10-17 04:20:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "What I see is that Crown and Koren are \"similar\" to the extent that both
    are calligraphic serif typefaces with substantially less stroke contrast than
    the traditional typefaces for Hebrew.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't make them identical,
    but in the case of Microsoft, a font for the identical typeface was, of course,
    what they licensed, allegedly from the wrong company, so this doesn't directly
    impinge on that.\r\n\r\nCertainly, in the English-language world, while typefaces
    do have some limited design protection, it isn't possible to pre-empt a whole
    genre of typefaces. Thus, the designer of Papyrus can't sue the designer of Ereshkigal
    - a similar face which is not a knock-off, but an original face although similar.\r\n\r\nIf
    Israeli law makes it possible for one typographical firm to own a huge swath of
    modern Hebrew typography, this appears to be cause for concern."
  created: '2010-10-17 05:08:44'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Okay, so as usual gohebrew has got his facts a little but wrong. He is NOT
    comparing to Eliyahu Koren's typeface which he created for Bible which was printed
    in 1962 and is available for purchase in OpenType format. \r\n\r\nIf somebody
    could enlighten me as to the best way to post images (and in what formaat) on
    this forum, I'll happily post the real font for real comparison."
  created: '2010-10-17 05:16:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Brian,\r\n\r\nI contend that Mr. Koren homogenized the design to best work
    for printing the Bible in Israel at the best way technology would allow, and to
    use less paper, to keep the cost down and to less thick.\r\n\r\nCrown never incorporated
    this homogenisation, and stayed true to orinal scribe's intent.\r\n\r\nThe design
    was used not for Biblical text, but if I recall for a commentary.\r\n\r\nThe bold
    version was from an Israeli art book, to demonstrate how it could work with Koren.
    It had a version of Hadasa in bold, and inclined version of David, too. \r\n\r\nI
    don't believe Koren, Friendlander, or David, drew these weights. Narkiss did draw
    different weights for his font, as they were intended for computer-based typesetting."
  created: '2010-10-17 05:18:54'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Again not true. The Koren font used in the Bible is actually the bold version.
    He also created a light version of both typefaces for the verse numbers but didn't
    invest as much time in these faces and they don't look as well polished since
    there use was (excuse the pun) marginal.\r\n\r\nAgain, if somebody could let me
    know the best way of posting images, I can demonstrate what the Koren font really
    looks like."
  created: '2010-10-17 05:24:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>> If somebody could enlighten me as to the best way to post
    images (and in what formaat) on this forum, I'll happily post the real font for
    real comparison.\r\n\r\nI export a PDF.\r\nThen, I make a .jpg version in oAcrobat
    Pro, or any graphic program.\r\nThen, I post that .jpg in a Typophile text block,
    about a few lines under the text, so they don't bump.\r\n\r\nI leave a few bland
    lines under it if I add further text.\r\n\r\n\r\nYou can add the .jpg images later
    too, but they appear at the end of the text. You can copy and paste them to wherever
    you want."
  created: '2010-10-17 05:26:25'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "here is the same text that gohebrew has posted in the real Koren Bible font:\r\n:-)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koren
    line_4166.jpg]\r\nand my name with some nikud:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/my
    name_3445.jpg]\r\nI think it's more constructive to compare the correct fonts "
  created: '2010-10-17 05:40:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nThis is much worst that what I posted.\r\n\r\nWhat I posted
    is from the My Fonts web site at http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/koren-mf/\r\n\r\nYours
    is really dorky. The nikkud is way too big and too rounded. It's not from the
    Koren. Koren was a master.\r\n\r\nThis must be an early version of Tzvika's. I
    hope for your sake."
  created: '2010-10-17 06:16:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "This Koren Bible font is definitely much more crisp than Rosenberg's version.
    It also appears to be less consistent in line stroke, which can sometimes be a
    good thing.\r\n\r\nThis shares less with Crown, but again Crown's proportions
    are way off from either example of Koren. The awkyts or \u05E2\u05D5\u05E7\u05E5
    (serif in Latin fonts) also vary greatly. Still, this analysis doesn't really
    say anything except that the fonts are similar but differ.\r\n\r\nI'll take time
    to ask this question now: earlier someone posted (GoHebrew, I think) that Koren
    isn't a very readable typeface. What is the basis for this statement?"
  created: '2010-10-17 06:25:29'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Well I respect your opinion but forgive me if I disagree. I think the font
    is beautiful but then again, some would argue that I am little biased.\r\n\r\nThis
    <em>is</em> 100% the real thing. Rather than checking myfonts, why don't you check
    your Koren Bible that you have in your house. You'll see that it's 100% identical.
    However, even though the version you list is on myfonts isn't the <em>real</em>
    Koren font, it is interesting that they credit the design to Eliyahu Koren.\r\n\r\nI
    have the original drawings of the nikud that Koren made, and the \"letraset\"
    that were subsequently created (actually letraset was only invented a few years
    later so he had films made with the nikud that were pasted onto the page that
    was printed at 200%). In fact, we wanted to enlarge the nikud (remember it gets
    printed at very small sizes too), but then there would be too many nikud collisions."
  created: '2010-10-17 06:31:15'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Now I have mentioned that there are 2 Koren typefaces, Bible and Siddur.
    The first line is the Bible font, the second the Siddur (Prayer Book) font. Note
    the differences.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bible vs siddur_6324.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 06:38:17'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "I think I agree with Raphael in the case of the Nikud, because small nikud
    would be terrible at small sizes. I recently tried using a font with some small
    nikud, which, while it looked beautiful at larger sizes, was terrible when I tried
    to print it at small sizes.\r\n\r\nI did think the newer example of the Koren
    Bible font looked better than the earlier example, but maybe I just don't know
    because I don't really know Hebrew - I can only sound things out very badly and
    recognize a few words. And even then I wouldn't be a native speaker."
  created: '2010-10-17 06:42:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Brian,\r\n\r\n>> I'll take time to ask this question now: earlier someone
    posted (GoHebrew, I think) that Koren isn't a very readable typeface. What is
    the basis for this statement?\r\n\r\nIn my view, most PostScrpt, TrueType, and
    OpenType fonts, need multiple versions of the same font, a same weight, to be
    best viewed at different sizes.\r\n\r\nLarger point sizes needs tighter sidebearings,
    or narrower inter-letter spacing, than small point sizes which need wider sidebearings,
    or wider inter-letter spacing.\r\n\r\nLarger point sizes can have letters that
    have greater details, while smaller point sizes must have less details, to be
    legible and conducive to comprehension.\r\n\r\nSmaller point sizes too need design
    adjustments in certain letter like the shin for example. The spaces between its
    vertical strokes must be farther apart. On the other hand, the spaces between
    its vertical strokes in a larger point size must be closer together. As the point
    size increases, the closer these vertical bars get to each other. As the point
    size decreases, the farther apart these vertical bars get to each other.\r\n\r\nKoren
    has many details in the designs of its letters. For example, look at the aleph
    and the gimmel. They are complex. Many letters, like the chof and peh, have unusual
    angles. These are details which draw attention to the eyes of the reader.\r\n\r\nHence,
    this design works better at larger point sizes, and do not work well at small
    point sizes, like Biblical text.\r\n\r\nThe sample I saw was fairly large text.
    At that size, details are pleasing to look  at.\r\n\r\nFonts like Romm Vilna,
    Rashi, Hadasa, David, and the fonts of Tzvi Narkiss, are excellent for small text.
    Romm Vilna had different designs to appear at larger sizes. Rashi, Hadasa, David,
    and the fonts of Tzvi Narkiss, simply do not work at larger sizes. Koren could
    work well at larger sizes.\r\n\r\nRaphael, was Koreen of Masterfont licensed from
    KP? "
  created: '2010-10-17 07:01:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I don't understand why extemely rounded nikud is matched to a non-rounded
    font.\r\n\r\nWhen John and I made Henri (Hadasa), which is a non-rounded font
    too, John design the nikkud not round at at all. Although it was small than by
    Koren, Brian, it was very legible even at small point sizes, because the strokes
    did not contrast a lot, for they were thicker and not rounded.\r\n\r\nThe Koren
    nikkud look like they were lifted from another font."
  created: '2010-10-17 07:12:12'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Yes, gohebrew, as I mentioned earlier in this thread, Koreen of Masterfont
    was licensed from Koren. Eliyahu Koren even made some slight changes. We get royalties
    from sales of Koreen. But now you can also purchase from Masterfont, Koren. So
    you have a choice, both of Koreen and Koren. The company's preference is for people
    to purchase the real Koren font now that it has been fully digitised, but if somebody
    has started a project in the Koreen font and somebody else continues it and they
    want the same typeface, then clearly they may prefer to purchase Koreen.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    your comments about the font should change as the size changes. In principle I
    fully agree with you. The gimmel used to be the famous example where the tail
    of the gimmel should move further away as the letter gets smaller. I think that
    this was relevant for lead and could have been relevant for multiple masters,
    a technology that ceased to exist, and I think that Adobe have addressed that
    to a large extent with their new typefaces with caption, subhead, display etc
    optical weights. In practice, it's probably not going to happen though :-)\r\n\r\nAgain,
    regarding the nikud, it hasn't been \"lifted\" from anywhere. Next time you come
    to Israel, please come to Jerusalem and I'll be happy to show you all the original
    drawings and the evolutions. I think then you'll realise that your comments are
    a little misplaced.\r\n\r\nI would still like to reiterate my request that you
    post the drawing of the page from that book that you bought in the flea market.
    I'm dying to see how you improved on the design of that font that was printed
    in that book."
  created: '2010-10-17 08:14:24'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "As promised, here is a crop from his Sefer Yonah. This was the prototype
    for the Koren font (please no copying of this for creation of new fonts!)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yonah_5451.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-17 08:38:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This debate has piqued my curiosity.\r\n\r\nIn a web search, I found this
    page:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.fathom.com/course/72810016/session3.html]]\r\n\r\nThe
    Hamburg Haggadah and the Montalto Megillah, depicted at the bottom of the page
    (the small pictures link to larger ones) would seem to be of interest for someone
    wishing to design a somewhat modernized Hebrew typeface.\r\n\r\nThis article about
    the origin of the Koren typeface\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tabletmag.com/life-and-religion/8297/prayer-type/\r\n\r\nnotes
    that it did take inspiration from Sephardic manuscripts."
  created: '2010-10-17 13:00:09'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: indeed tabletmag are correct, but then again where do you think they got their
    info from :-)
  created: '2010-10-17 14:27:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "And, in all fairness, it might be noted that the Koren face wasn't simply
    a copy of any style of writing in Sephardic manuscripts, but was carefully designed
    to reflect modern research on readability.\r\n\r\nThus, it ought to be easy to
    distinguish between something that is a copy of Koren, or based on it, and something
    newly done from the same sources."
  created: '2010-10-17 14:51:21'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: It is easy :-) If only gohebrew would post this famous source of his which
    conveniently is either at RIT or the fleamarket (depending on the day) and is
    impossible to source :-)
  created: '2010-10-17 14:55:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for the post of the early version of Koren, Raphael. That is fascinating.
    \r\n\r\nIn spite of Israel's dreadful example on derech eretz, I have to admit
    that I think he has a good point on the problem of size with the Koren Bible face.
    I have a small size of the Koren Jerusalem Bible (roughly 8.2 x 5 inches), and
    do find the Hebrew visually not as readable as I'd like. And the problems may
    well be tight letter spacing and other adjustments as Israel mentions. I have
    the \"Personal Size\" of the Koren Siddur, 7.25 x 4.75, though it has larger size
    Hebrew type than the Jerusalem Bible's. Whether because of the design of the font
    or the larger size, I find the Koren Siddur font strikingly readable, one of the
    best. \r\n  "
  created: '2010-10-17 17:07:22'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "According to the article on Koren: \r\n\r\n<em>...He based his letter on
    medieval Sephardi script, while giving it a modern touch....</em>\r\n\r\n<em>...Koren
    also developed a distinct but related siddur typeface, since he felt that the
    one he had developed for the Bible was too sacred to reuse, except for biblical
    quotations....</em>\r\n\r\nI also found this bit quite interesting:\r\n\r\n<em>Unlike
    virtually every other Hebrew-English siddur, the Koren siddur prints the Hebrew
    on the left-hand pages and the English on the right. This strategy, which Koren
    advocated during his lifetime, is both aesthetic and practical: it means that
    no matter which language you are reading, you start from the center and read outward.</em>\r\n\r\nMakes
    sense!"
  created: '2010-10-17 17:50:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\ni have nothing now. not the rit document, or the flea market
    book.\r\nit was 1989. now is 2010.\r\nwhere are koren's sources? not his drawings.
    his sources. did he burn them?\r\n\r\nis koren a sephardic face?\r\nis koren an
    ashkenazic face?\r\n\r\njohn savard says its from a sephardic manuscript.\r\nreally?\r\nbut
    the askenazic books look like koren,\r\nand romm vilna look like ols sephardic
    books.\r\n\r\nis stam ashkenazic or sephardic?\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:01:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "brian,\r\n\r\nhow can it be a modern touch to be like an ancient sephardic
    script?\r\n\r\nright size english moves from left to right. the extreme right
    of the 2 pages.\r\n\r\nleft size hebrew moves from right to left. the extreme
    left of the 2 pages.\r\n\r\ndoes one eye move right, and other left, and then
    becomes with eyes far apart.\r\n\r\nthe koren siddur is not intended for bi-lingual
    use, but to pray only in one language, and later to learn the other.\r\n\r\ndoes
    this make sense?"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:10:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "raphael,\r\n\r\nwhere did the yonah sample 3 lines go, that you typed in
    koren bible? why did you remove it?"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:16:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was going by an illustration in one of your posts here\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/49385?page=1]]\r\n\r\nwhich
    showed the Sephardic style as being similar to pretty well all conventional Hebrew
    typefaces, but the Ashkenazic style as being - at least in the first two alephs
    - clearly suited only to display uses. But looking at that illustration again,
    I can see where there are Ashkenazic elements in Koren."
  created: '2010-10-17 18:16:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Brian,\r\n\r\nWhich post and graphic do you refer?\r\n\r\nThe manner of drawing
    the aleph is just a beginning. I am working on an article but am still collecting
    much research. It's year or two away.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:23:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Excuse me, John\r\n\r\nJohn S.,\r\n\r\nWhich post and graphic do you refer?\r\n\r\nThe
    manner of drawing the aleph is just a beginning. I am working on an article but
    am still collecting much research. It's year or two away.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:24:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Oh this one:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/49385?page=1\r\nlook towards
    the bottom\r\n\r\nThe \"sfaradi\" script caught my attention, as my research showed
    that many Askenazic-stlye scripts had the shapes of the aleph as this one, with
    the right top element facing to the left, and Sephardic-style alephs with right
    top element facing to the right. Here is an example:\r\n.\r\n.\r\n.\r\nDoes anyone
    have older manuscripts with either Sephardic-style alephs with right top element
    facing to the right, or Askenazic-style scripts with the shapes of the aleph with
    right top element facing to the left, or otherwise?\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson, I know
    you have and seen many older manuscrpts with Hebrew. Have you seen this? Do you
    think this is an accurate distictive trait?"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:29:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, Hebrew on the right or left doesn't make a difference as far as the
    eye jumping from one side to the other, if the reader's eye jumps from the end
    of a Hebrew or English line to the beginning of a line in the other language.
    \r\n\r\nIf you jump from the beginning of a Hebrew line or an English line to
    the beginning of the other language\u2014which the imperfectly bilingual reader
    will want to do sometimes\u2014then Hebrew on the left and English on the right
    is shorter, and better. \r\n\r\nI don't think the reader has any reason to jump
    from the end of an English or Hebrew line to the end of a line of the other language:
    he or she isn't going to learn anything that way. That would be the only situation
    where the eye jump is closer for Hebrew on the right, English on the left. \r\n\r\nFor
    these reasons, when you have pages of fully mirrored text, I think that Hebrew
    on the left is better. Thus I followed the Koren Siddur example in my Pirke Avot:
    Timeless Wisdom for Modern Life, to be published this week by the Jewish Publication
    Society. It has an appendix with the whole of Pirkei Avot on mirrored pages, uninterupted
    by commentary, with the Hebrew on the left and the English on the right. I used
    Hadasa MFO and my Williams Caslon Small (not yet published as a font) on the right.
    As you might guess, I think the Williams Caslon Small looks a lot better than
    the latin font used for the small text in the Jerusalem Bible :) \r\n\r\nWhen
    the situation is mixed Hebrew and English on the same page, I think the best way
    to do it is a more complex decision. For example, I don't fault the beautiful
    new Conservative Machzor for Hebrew on the right. In the main text of my Avot,
    with the commentary, the Hebrew is on separate lines from the English, on the
    same page.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-17 18:41:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n\r\n1.   >>>>> English on the left >>>>>  <<<<< Hebrew on the
    right <<<<<\r\nis easier line by line than\r\n2.   <<<<< Hebrew on the left <<<<<
    \ >>>>> English on the right >>>>>\r\n\r\n1. If you start either in Hebrew or
    in English, your eye travels less\r\nabout half a line per line, forward\r\n\r\n2.
    If you start either in Hebrew or in English, your travels more\r\nabout half a
    line per line, backwards\r\n\r\nIt's the same.\r\n\r\n\u05DE\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4
    \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9 \u05DC\u05E4\u05E0\u05D9\u05DA.....I thank you\r\n<<<<<<<<<<<<<<.....>>>>>>>>>>>\r\n\r\nversus\r\n\r\nI
    thank you.....\u05DE\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4 \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9 \u05DC\u05E4\u05E0\u05D9\u05DA\r\n>>>>>>>>>>>.....<<<<<<<<<<<<<<\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think you're correct, Bill\r\n\r\n\r\nPS I thought that you gave up stone throwing.\r\nI
    guess AKs can't change their ways.  :)"
  created: '2010-10-17 19:00:52'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> does one eye move right, and other left, and then becomes with eyes far
    apart.\r\n\r\nhahaha.\r\n\r\n\r\nthis is the article I refer to:\r\nhttp://www.tabletmag.com/life-and-religion/8297/prayer-type/"
  created: '2010-10-17 19:04:01'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "The yonah in the Koren Bible face is on another thread.\r\n\r\nI didn't know
    that Koren based his font on another font. This is your theory. I know he was
    influenced by \"Sephardi scripts\" but honestly I have no idea what that means.
    I also know that he spent a long time with experts in readability to improve the
    readibility of the fonts. However, I don't know the scientific process of the
    late '50s so I can't really tell you if that works or not.\r\n\r\nRegarding the
    quality of our books at small sizes. We have made tremendous development in the
    last year or two in increasing radically our production process. It's definately
    not there yet, but the books that we have printed in the last couple of years
    are of a much higher standard.\r\n\r\nThe new Koren Siddur for Israel is currently
    at the printers and we have just start getting in the new Shabbat Chumashim for
    Israel (we did USA versions of these books last year in the Sacks and Talpiot
    Series). I think there you can see that the legibility of the Tanakh font is much
    better.\r\n\r\nHowever, I really do think that legibility is about what you are
    used to. For example in the English language, there was a period that books were
    printed all in italics. Today it's considered poor typography to set large amounts
    of text in italics, but isn't that because we are just not used to it?\r\n\r\nIsraelis
    love the Koren font. They think it's really really legible. So perhaps it's different
    for people that read Hebrew all day than it is to people who read English all
    day. I honestly don't know."
  created: '2010-10-17 21:33:43'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: ">> Israelis love the Koren font. They think it's really really legible. So
    perhaps it's different for people that read Hebrew all day than it is to people
    who read English all day. I honestly don't know.\r\n\r\nTo me the added differentiation,
    many of the angled strokes, seems like it would add legibility, just like many
    of the rounded forms in Hadasa. If each letter was constructed in a very rigid
    way, and there was very little differentiation, this would make things less legible.\r\n\r\nI
    think the main reason that it's different for people who read English all day
    as opposed to Hebrew, is the fact that they may not be familiar with some of the
    forms Hebrew letters can take on. In all of the English introductions and lessens
    for Hebrew I've seen, they have really only used some very old Hebrew typefaces.
    Both Hadasa and Koren look a bit odd to many westerner's eyes, this is not even
    mentioning sans Hebrew fonts. I remember showing someone a Hebrew sans font, and
    she was saying \"Are you sure that's Hebrew...? I don't know, that's really weird.\"
    So I showed her some awkyts/serif fonts, and she liked them much better. When
    I tried to explain to her that Hebrew, like most other languages, has a variety
    of styles and forms it can take on, she had the most peculiar look on her face.
    I do not know, but I think that is the position many people who don't use Hebrew
    often take."
  created: '2010-10-17 22:19:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Having found \"An Annotated Bibliography of Hebrew Typesetting\" by Sivan
    Toledo (it is on his web site that \"\xDCber hebr\xE4ische typen und schriftarten\"
    was found), it turns out it has type specimens in it, it is not just a big list
    of books.\r\n\r\nAt the top of page 8 I finally saw why Koren is a strange and
    unique typeface. On the letters He and Heth, it has a little point on the right
    side of the letter, making the top symmetrical. I can see that as a unique innovation.\r\n\r\nAt
    the top of page 13, however, an illustration of Intertype's Hebrew Modern seems
    to be bad news for Gohebrew (Israel Seldowitz) - apparently a Lamed with a curled
    ascender has been done before. (On page 15, we see that Linotype got into the
    act as well.)"
  created: '2010-10-17 23:31:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nDo you have the link to Sivan's web site?\r\n\r\nI claim
    no monopoly on a curled lamed, but created it for the Crown/Koren design first
    - but not first in everything. The Talmud had it too long ago."
  created: '2010-10-18 00:14:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Here is the link I posted in another discussion:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~stoledo/fonts/articles.html]]\r\n\r\nThe
    one to his web site as a whole, of course, is\r\n\r\n[[http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~stoledo/]]\r\n\r\nAs
    for the curled Lamed: I wasn't really expecting that you were claiming that, but
    given my initial perception of what some others were claiming, I was not sure.
    That perception has changed, though, as I've seen that the Koren design does have
    some specific unusual features."
  created: '2010-10-18 01:13:27'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> Do you have the link to Sivan's web site?\r\n\r\nIt was on the \"\xDCber
    hebr\xE4ische typen und schriftarten\" thread. http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~stoledo/fonts/articles.html"
  created: '2010-10-18 01:17:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nIn your view, do you thing Koren's unusual features are Eliyahu
    Koren's invention, or did he find them in other older sources.\r\n\r\nI think
    that he is had a pattern of such unusual creativity, such a two or more earlier
    creative works, then I attribute his unusual features in Koren to him.\r\n\r\nOtherwise,
    I would prefer to think that he was inspired from much older sources like other
    great designers.\r\n\r\nDo you agree?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 01:48:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "JS and Brian,\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nHave you seen any articles linking
    these Hebrew deigns to either Askenazic or Sephardic roots?"
  created: '2010-10-18 01:50:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Readability versus Attractiveness\r\n\r\nEarlier, it was noted by Raphael
    that Koren was very readable, even at smaller point sizes. \r\n\r\nI argued it
    was not. Of the popular Hebrew typefaces, FrankRuehl, Hadasa, David, and the font
    designs of Tzvi Narkiss, Koren was the least readable, because of various factors.
    See above.\r\n\r\nBrian, who is not a Hebrew reader, agreed with Raphael, for
    the same reasons which I cited made Koren not readable.\r\n\r\nI think his terms
    are confused. A letter with many unusual features, and diagonal cuts on its ends,
    are attractive, and draw the attention of the eye.\r\n\r\nAccording to the established
    theory of 'eye movement', these (details and diagonals) are factors that will
    show down the eye in reading, and reduce readability, although they are in deed
    attractive."
  created: '2010-10-18 02:14:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n> henri is my hadasa\r\n> friedlander himself approved it\r\n>
    he said that it was the closest to his first drawings\r\n\r\n\r\nreally? do you
    have any proof?"
  created: '2010-10-18 03:30:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Mr. Seldowitz,\r\n\r\nI'm not qualified to comment on whether the apparently
    new features in Koren are from older sources or not. I have only begun to look
    into the subject, having been inspired by this controversy to do some web searching
    in hopes I might find something that could arguably be your lost, or temporarily
    mislaid, source.\r\n\r\nWhat had initially concerned me was that perhaps a claim
    was being made that covered any calligraphic Hebrew face with reduced stroke contrast."
  created: '2010-10-18 04:02:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Raphael, I don't agree that readability is only a matter of familiarity.
    Nor do I think Koren would have agreed, looking at his typeface, where he took
    pains to increase the differentiation of Hebrew letters along the tops of letters\u2014less
    familiar but perhaps promoting readability. \r\n\r\nIn Eurpoe, the all-italic
    style was quickly abandoned. And today, European readers are very familiar with
    italic, yet you almost never see a whole book of text published in it. \r\n\r\nThere
    has been a lot of digital ink spilled on this subject on Typophile, and while
    there are big differences, I think it fair to say that most agree that there are
    some typefaces that are inherently less readable than others particularly at small
    (text) sizes in extended, continuous text. \r\n\r\nGood to know you are improving
    the text for small sizes.  "
  created: '2010-10-18 04:12:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "david,\r\n\r\nno.\r\n\r\nhe was an old man. he died in 96. this was ten years
    earlier I think\r\n\r\ni just got married in 1982. i leaned in a college yeshiva
    kollel. \r\n\r\nmy parents gave me a 1mb mac just after the fac mac and the ibm
    pc.\r\n\r\naltsys fontographer was 1.0. they upgraded it for free to 1.1\r\n\r\ni
    made queen esther. it was my hadasa. the medrash said esther's real name was hadasa.\r\n\r\ni
    sent henri friedlander a check for 100 shekels. a royalty. it was peanuts.\r\n\r\nhe
    called. we spoke for over an hour. he was sending me the check back, because he
    sold the design to the amsterdam foundry. then he asked it i was a lubavitch,
    because my address is kfar chabad. yes. was i a dati? yes. he was quiet. i said
    hadasa now was accepted by all the datis. they are setting the tanach with it.
    then he was quiet, and started to cry a long time like a baby. he calmed down,
    and stated to teach me many secrets of hebrew type design from all his research.
    he said that my hadasa was very very good. like his original drawings. he pointed
    out a few flaws to fix. then he said bye.\r\n\r\njust one phone call.\r\n\r\nso
    i got the address and mailed it to them. $50.in europe. they mailed it to linotype
    germany which bought all the type foundries.\r\n\r\nlinotype germany wrote me
    a very long thank you letter for 50 bucks. i don't recall what said. bunch of
    bull. they just were moved and wanted to write. they asked about friedlaender.
    a wierd letter. \r\n\r\nhenri has many more improvements that he would be proud
    of, that john made to the nikkud.\r\n\r\ni am never releasing it as a commercial
    font. i made it as memorial for mr henri friedlaender zal - $5,000 - 8 weights
    - light, text, bold, poster. light/narrow, text/narrow, bold/narrow, poster/narrow
    - half the money goes to charity for his neshama.\r\n\r\ni deciding the same for
    Crown. $5,000 - 8 weights - light, text, bold, poster. light/narrow, text/narrow,
    bold/narrow, poster/narrow - half the money goes to charity for Koren's neshama.\r\n\r\nKoren
    was a breakthrough, even if he neglected to name his source. like narkiss."
  created: '2010-10-18 04:14:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "why am i mr. s., and not nemo's cousin, now.\r\n\r\ni appreciate your effort.
    i doubt if rit will send you anything.\r\n\r\nin a research library, the researcher
    does the leg work. the library for type is huge. hebrew alone are many many shelves.\r\n\r\nthe
    conservative judaism seminary in manhattan, and the reform judaism hebrew union
    college may have it as well. the same old books are their but sorted differently.\r\n\r\nthe
    chabad-lubavitch research library too is very huge, but the researcher must make
    a specific request, because every book is in cold storage for preparation.\r\n\r\nthe
    reform are the largest, but rit is devoted to type in particular.\r\n\r\ni think
    it'll never be resolved until i do to rit myself. 10 years. 15?"
  created: '2010-10-18 04:24:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I hardly know you, so I didn't feel I should do like your colleagues and fellow
    professional type designers here are doing, and address you by your first name.
    I did not intend to indicate I was upset with you.
  created: '2010-10-18 04:43:52'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I think I might have been misinterpreted somewhat on Koren at small text
    sizes. \r\n\r\nI <em>don't</em> think that the Koren font is good a small point
    sizes. It <em>would</em> benefit from a \"caption\" version of the font, but we
    have no immediate plans of doing such a font.\r\n\r\nIn our new Israeli siddur
    which is currently at the printers, we decided to use FrankRuehl for the halakha
    (laws) guide at the back of the siddur since we felt that when we printed the
    siddur at the pocket size, the text was so small of the guide, that it would be
    very hard to read in Koren.\r\n\r\nI was just saying that in general and at normal
    point sizes, Israelis seem to find Koren quite legible. It's hard for me, in my
    position of seeing the Koren font on my  monitors 9 hours a day, to be a good
    judge :-)"
  created: '2010-10-18 04:59:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A very good font in my view than FrankRuhl is a version of Hadasa or David.\r\n\r\nI
    am working on an advanced OpenType font to do this automatically.\r\n\r\nChoose
    12 and up to say 36, one set of glyphs are used.\r\n\r\nChoose 10 and down to
    say 4, a different set of glyphs are used.\r\n\r\nChoose 37 and up to say 99,
    a third set of glyphs are used.\r\n\r\nCool?\r\n\r\nScott-Martin's will be an
    even better font than Hadasa or David, because it haic edges) Hadasa's widths
    and \"blockiness\", and David's simplicity (but not sharp calligraphic edges.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-18 05:11:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nNo anger perceived.\r\n\r\nI descend from BeloRussians. We
    know the secret of never getting drunk.\r\n\r\nLet's make a bet.\r\n\r\nYou can
    have two tall glasses of tzex-an-nine-tzeker. 96 proof drinking alcohol. Not vodka.
    Tzex-an-nine-tzeker. And plain water.\r\n\r\nI have a tall glass of tzex-an-nine-tzeker.
    96 proof drinking alcohol. Not vodka. Tzex-an-nine-tzeker. And plain water.\r\n\r\nWe
    drink it in two continuous gulps. Then, the water, too.\r\n\r\nIf you get drunk,
    you lose. But if I don't get drunk, I win.\r\n\r\nDavid and Bill can be the judges.\r\n\r\nIf
    you lose, you call me Israel; if I win, I call you John S.\r\n\r\nAre we on?"
  created: '2010-10-18 05:20:53'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "lol on last post. I think he prefers to be called Israel. I prefer Brian
    to Mr. Z. In fact, I hate being called the name of a grocery store.\r\n\r\n> I
    am working on an advanced OpenType font to do this automatically.\r\n> Choose
    12 and up to say 36, one set of glyphs are used.\r\n> Choose 10 and down to say
    4, a different set of glyphs are used.\r\n> Choose 37 and up to say 99, a third
    set of glyphs are used.\r\n\r\nI had though about this, but didn't know if it
    was possible? Could you show me what kind of code you use to make the features
    size-specific?"
  created: '2010-10-18 05:42:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Not automatic is really easy.\r\nAutomatic is complicated, because there
    is no one tool that can do it all, and the three tools erase what the other two
    do.\r\n\r\nI think the Adobe text tool can do more that Microsoft Volt, if nikkud/taam
    is no issue.\r\n\r\nRight, John Hudson.\r\n\r\nBasically, if the Adobe tool supports
    the OT command I think it's called SIZE, then the GSUB replaces each letter, that's
    it.\r\n\r\nIf the Adobe tool doesn't support it yet, or the command is limited
    to do something else, OT is open source/expandable, and a new command can be defined
    (but InDesign must support it too).\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson, is this doable?"
  created: '2010-10-18 05:54:38'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Ahh, so it's still theory. But that's how I thought it would work. There
    isn't a SIZE feature by default in Fontforge, which means that would have to be
    written in by hand. But I don't have any idea how a lookup like that could be
    made. It's obviously easy to make forms specific to size and then have them as
    subs. Making that automatic based on size, that's something I don't know about.\r\n\r\nYou
    can have size-specific changes to metrics in Fontforge, but I think that's limited
    to TTFs."
  created: '2010-10-18 06:17:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Have you used Volt?\r\n\r\nJohn used the Adobe tool. \r\n\r\nIf a look-up
    takes a user input, like a string of \"small_text\", then that input sets off
    a different series of GOSUBs.\r\nIf a look-up takes a user input, like a string
    of \"big_text\", then that input sets off a different series of GOSUBs.\r\nIf
    a look-up takes a user input, like a string of \"default_text\", then that input
    sets off a default series of GOSUBs.\r\n\r\nThe question is if the font can get
    that input if the text is typeset in a certain point size.\r\n\r\nAgain, FontForge
    is like FontLab Studio.\r\n\r\nThe more advanced OT is in Volt or Adobe's tool
    kit. They are free."
  created: '2010-10-18 06:41:13'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> Have you used Volt?\r\n\r\nNope.\r\n\r\n> Again, FontForge is like FontLab
    Studio.\r\n> The more advanced OT is in Volt or Adobe's tool kit. They are free.\r\n\r\nAh,
    I do have the Adobe Font Development Kit for OpenType (AFDKO). Would that be it?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is Volt? Where do you get it?"
  created: '2010-10-18 07:24:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> The more advanced OT is in Volt or Adobe's tool kit. They are free.\r\n\r\nBrian:
    Ah, I do have the Adobe Font Development Kit for OpenType (AFDKO). Would that
    be it?\r\n\r\nBoth are downloaded. \r\n\r\nOne is somewhere at the huge Adobe
    site. Maybe, you have it already. It works on Windows.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson knows.
    John, is that it?\r\n\r\nVolt is downloaded too. Go to the even huger Microsoft.\r\n\r\nGoogle
    VOLT for the link. You must get approved first before you can join and download.
    After that, you're a star."
  created: '2010-10-18 07:34:37'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Hmm, it had VOLT free for download. I think it used to have to be approved.
    For VTT you have to request it though.
  created: '2010-10-18 07:40:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: What's VTT?
  created: '2010-10-18 08:00:21'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: VTT is Microsoft's Visual True Type program, for adding hints to TTF files
    visually. It's for making screen fonts look better on Windows.
  created: '2010-10-18 08:38:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Now this discussed really has gone off topic, and subsequent discussion of
    tools and lookups really belongs in the Build forum.\r\n\r\nIsrael, I only use
    VOLT for OpenType Layout work, not the Adobe FDK tool. I only use the Adobe tool
    for hinting PostScript fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>Basically, if the Adobe tool supports
    the OT command I think it's called SIZE, then the GSUB replaces each letter, that's
    it.</em>\r\n\r\nThe OTL 'size' feature is <em>not</em> a GSUB feature and it will
    not substitute different glyph sets within a font for different text sizes. The
    'size' feature is very problematic, and it isn't supported in any major software
    that I'm aware of (maybe in XeTeX?), although you can use the Adobe FDK to define
    the 'size' feature in your GPOS table (but you can't mix VOLT and FDK workflows).
    The 'size' feature uses a GPOS lookup to store some information about the sizes
    at which a particular font is designed to be used, such that, in theory, an application
    could choose the appropriate font from a large family containing multiple size
    masters. It's a hack: an official hack but still a hack. It makes use of a table
    usually accessed late in text layout for store information that an application
    needs even before it determines what font should be used for the text. It should
    be replaced by a better mechanism more likely to be implemented by software developers.
    Since size specific designs are predominantly implemented as separate fonts, rather
    than as variant glyph collections in a font, I favour something like a SIZE table
    that an application could access long before it needs to be dealing with GSUB
    and GPOS."
  created: '2010-10-18 17:49:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, this discussion led me to take a close look at a number of Hebrew typefaces,
    and to otherwise research the subject, with the result that I modified an illustration
    I had made for my web page:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hbal_5832.gif]\r\n\r\nby
    improving the design of both Lamed and Qoph:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hbfi_6198.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-18 20:02:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Try using shortened ascender for the lamed, and shortened descender for the
    kuf, nuhn, etc.\r\n\r\nLike this:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shortsamples_6615.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-18 20:40:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nI see you like kabballah and different forms of gematria.\r\n\r\nSee
    http://www.bobdylan.com/#/user/37204 to observe the Sephirot in 3 columns. There
    is also a single order."
  created: '2010-10-18 20:44:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">VTT is Microsoft's Visual True Type program\r\n\r\nIs Anyone here using
    VTT to hint Hebrew?"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:32:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Is Anyone here using VTT to hint Hebrew?\r\n\r\nI think Diane does for
    Microsoft. She can be reached at \"Diane\" <dianecollier@comcast.net>.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:43:18'
- author:
    name: Hanaan
  body: "Baruch,\r\nArial font is indeed very nice, especially considering that I
    don't see any other hebrew fonts on your website - was Arial your only one? Impressive.\r\nAnd
    true - there was one expert opinion stating that it was an original design. There
    were more than ten expert opinions to the contrary (saying that Arial was clearly
    a copy of Narkiss Hadash).\r\nWhile it is possible that you created an entirely
    original font that just happens to match an existing font almost perfectly (other
    than 3-4 characters), copyright laws still protect the original. "
  created: '2010-10-24 15:37:01'
- author:
    name: Hanaan
  body: "gohebrew: \"again, bill, what narkiss did to that concentration camp victim
    is sick. i hope he did teshuva. his estate should give a big donation to holocaust
    survivors.\"\r\n\r\nHOLY CR@P, Gohebrew - I have no clue what you are referring
    to here. Are you referring to Zvi Narkiss? Please email details to hanaan@mac.com."
  created: '2010-10-24 16:41:05'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Over the weekend - I have absolutely no idea why - it struck me that of the
    Jews I know, I doubt if 1% of them would know what a pilpul is.\r\nIs it 2017
    yet?"
  created: '2010-10-25 16:37:21'
date: '2010-10-10 14:18:03'
node_type: forum
title: Israeli court finds against Microsoft in font case

---
