---
author:
  name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
  picture: 109540
body: "This post describes how I have created matching Hebrew and Latin for my own
  font \"Mike Hebrew\".\r\n\r\nI did not add this post to the \"Creating a Merger
  of a Latin and a Non-Latin Font Style\" because many of the replies did not deal
  with designing fonts.  Furthermore don't want to be involved in criticizing other
  people's fonts, other people or to argue about history etc.\r\n\r\nThis design problem
  \ will be different for each kind of Hebrew font.  If the Hebrew font is Frank Ruel
  then the solutions will be quite different to solutions that would be appropriate
  if the Hebrew font is Levenim.  The is NO SINGLE SOLUTION. \r\n\r\nWhat I write
  here only applies to matching the Hebrew and the Latin letters in my own \"Mike
  Hebrew\" font.  \r\nThe early versions of this font did not have a matching set
  of Latin characters which caused two problems:\r\n\r\na) When Hebrew was displayed
  or printed, and it contained a few English words, numerals or even Western punctuation
  the resulting use of the my computer's default Western font was sometimes hideous.\r\n\r\nb)
  On a page with columns of Hebrew and parallel English translation, the baselines
  of the English did not line up correctly with the Hebrew.  Also the English usually
  dominated the page if the point size was the same.\r\n\r\nIt proved difficult to
  find matching Latin fonts to fix these problems so  I developed \"Mike Hebrew\"
  with a set of Hebrew, Latin, numerals, punctuation, currency symbols and so on that
  would all match.\r\n  "
comments:
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "What do I mean by  \"Matching Hebrew and Latin\"?\r\n\r\nFirst, lets clear
    out of the way, what it doesn't mean!  I did not want to make changes to the Hebrew
    letters\r\nto give them the style of a Western Alphabet, nor did I want to make
    changes to the Latin characters to give then a Hebrew appearance.  Each would
    retain its identity. \r\n\r\nThe matching is achieved by balancing boldness, horizontal
    and vertical features and angularity. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-16 01:30:13'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "<strong>Appearance of embedded Latin words, phrases, or short sentences in
    Hebrew text.</strong>\r\n\r\nThe design of \"Mike Hebrew\" is intended to have
    the Latin blend in an unobtrusive manner. A short run of Latin characters should
    not disturb the appearance of a page of Hebrew.  The \"toning down\" of the Latin
    characters I have described above seems to solve this problem.\r\n\r\nThe rag-bag
    of characters such as currency, copyright, ampersand etc are designed to work
    with both English text and Hebrew text although in \"Mike Hebrew\" working well
    with Hebrew is given precedence.\r\n\r\nIsraelis often use Western punctuation
    such as comma, period, quotes etc with their Hebrew and the result can be hideous
    unless they are designed to match the Hebrew first and the Latin second.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_20101015_embedded_latin_example_4913.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-16 01:35:46'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "<strong>Appearance of parallel texts.</strong>\r\n\r\nA translation or a
    transliteration of the Hebrew, is by definition secondary in importance to the
    original Hebrew.  The \"toning down\" of the Latin that I have described above
    goes a long way to achieving this also in appearance.\r\n\r\nHowever there is
    still more to do and some changes to the Hebrew may be necessary.\r\nA page of
    Hebrew and a page of Latin usually a quite different overall appearance. The Hebrew
    page appears as horizontal gray stripes with a fairly large horizontal space between
    the lines.  In contrast, the Latin page looks a more uniform gray. \r\n\r\nFor
    \"Mike Hebrew\", the horizontal grey stripes are less obvious for a number of
    reasons.\r\n\r\na) The font does not have strong horizontals at top or bottom
    of the glyphs.\r\nAt the top, most of the \"horizontals\" are tilted so it's not
    clear exactly  where the top of the line is. This effect is enhanced by the fact
    that the horizontals differ greatly in length.\r\n\r\nb) The baseline is made
    less sharp by having various letters or parts of letters not quite reach the baseline
    or extend slightly below it. For example the legs of the Het are of different
    length. Additionally, in \"Mike Hebrew\" the letters often overlap, for instance
    the lower left of letters Bet, Caf, Nun, Ayin, Peh and Tsadeh may go underneath
    the following letter (to its left).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_20101015_parallel_texts_6045.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    should emphasize that all these considerations are for \"Mike Hebrew\" and a matching
    set of Latin for another Hebrew font could be quite different.  However all of
    the design issues listed here would have to be considered."
  created: '2010-10-16 01:41:05'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "<strong>Toning down the Latin characters</strong>\r\n\r\nI had taken \"Tuffy\"
    as my starting point and transformed the Latin letters to be roughly the right
    size and boldness. \r\n\r\nHowever this was not enough and I still had to make
    the characters  a little less strident.  This was done by making the stroke width
    of the Latin characters narrower than the stroke width of the Hebrew. The stroke
    width of the numerals was somewhat between these. However this wasn't enough!
    \r\n\r\nI then changed the shape of some Latin glyphs to make them less dominating.
    For instance, as verticals are so dominating, I tilted some of them slightly.
    The tilt is just enough to weaken the appearance of the stroke. Another device
    was to choose a variant of the letters a, e, g, etc that would be less dominant
    (usually the script version). Also some of the horizontals can be tilted in A,
    B, E, F etc. \r\n\r\nI also made the Hebrew fairly high indeed almost as high
    as the Latin uppercase. \r\n\r\nAnother way of reducing the difference in appearance
    between Latin and Hebrew is to increase the strength of the verticals in the Hebrew
    and reducing the strength of the horizontals. This goal is aided by making the
    Hebrew letters a bit narrower and taller.  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_20101015_latin_letters_4538.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-16 01:49:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I like Mike Hebrew very much.\r\n\r\nI don't think it matches the English
    at all, although it too is very good.\r\n\r\nThe Hebrew has many diagonals, and
    descenders. The Engish does not, though both are informal.\r\n\r\nI would draw
    an English set with the Hebrew attributes, stroke widths, etc., much like the
    Hebrew. I suggest that the Hebrew letters should never touch. This is difficult
    with descenders. To achieve this, OpenType and Volt can be used, with many additional
    alternative glyphs, and ligatures. GOSUB can address these replacements automatically.\r\n\r\nSo,
    whenever a string of characters are entered at the keyboad, that string will be
    replaced or SUBstituted by a different group from the font."
  created: '2010-10-18 04:58:36'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "This list of things I've compiled may help you:\r\n(Sorry, it's missing a
    bibliography - I can put that together later.)\r\n\r\n<strong>On designing Hebrew
    and Latin type\r\nfor simultaneous use:</strong>\r\n\r\n1. Respect must be taken
    for the merits of the traditional forms of each script\r\n2. There are two poles
    in which to take pairing Hebrew and Latin: First, is to try and make the the Hebrew
    and Latin as close as possible. Second, to try and contrast between the two as
    much as possible. The best method is probably somewhere along the axis between
    these poles where it is made to match the Latin but still provide contrast.\r\n3.
    The foremost goal of a family containing both is to produce a similar color; however
    texture between scripts is both inherent and necessary for distinction.\r\n4.
    Sharing proportions seems ideal, for example aligning the Hebrew body height with
    the Latin x-height, but in reality the best proportions for use with u&lc Latin
    is somewhere between the cap- and x-height. Extenders may want to follow similar
    measurements with the Latin extenders - but only if that is feasibly allowed by
    the proportions of the Latin glyphs and Hebrew body height.\r\n5. Characteristics
    from Latin can successfully shared with Hebrew by using similar shapes of serifs
    and \"pen marks\" respectively, as will as similar terminals.\r\n6. It should
    be noted that, when used with Latin lowercase only, the Hebrew body can successfully
    use the Latin's x-height. When used with uppercase, it should usually be scaled
    to cap-height.\r\n\r\n<strong>Things to keep in mind when designing Hebrew fonts:</strong>\r\n\r\n1.
    Hebrew does not sit on a baseline but rather hangs.\r\n2. Hebrew can be better
    understood in the same way Latin can by categorizing the glyphs into rounded,
    square, and diagonal forms.\r\n3. It can also be better understood by categorizing
    in terms of structure of joins: whether the roof connects to stems smoothly or
    with two connecting strokes.\r\n\r\n<strong>Hebrew \"Serif\" or \"Pen Mark\"</strong>\r\n\r\nAccording
    to hafont.com, a Hebrew word for the \"serifs\" is \u05E2\u05D5\u05E7\u05E5, which,
    translated means barb, or sting. Because thed finishing marks are Hebrew, we should
    therefor use this Hebrew name\u2014transliterated awkyts. Thus: Awkyts fonts and
    Sans-Awkyts fonts. Since sans does mean without, and many fonts are already referred
    to as \"sans\", continuing to use the term sans is best."
  created: '2010-10-18 18:03:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "An o-ketz is used long before hafont.com decided it was a good word for a
    serif.\r\n\r\nFirst, hafont.com is no Eliezer Ben-Yehuda, who defined much of
    modern Hebrew from its usage in ancient Hebrew. Eliezer made mistakes.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a serif? Many scholars belief that it was an area on a letter intended for
    ink to gather. I think that this opinion is lame, for many fonts have serifs that
    play an important part in the attractiveness of the entire design.\r\n\r\nOnly
    diagonal lines reach below the baseline. Most Hebrew fonts do not have diagonal
    lines; hence, most Hebrew fonts sit firmly on the baseline.\r\n\r\nA good Hebrew
    font does not reach the x-height of the lowercase English letter, because then
    it will appear too small in comparison with the English font.\r\n\r\nA good Hebrew
    font does not reach the x-height of the uppercase English letter either, because
    then it will appear too big in comparison with the English font.\r\n\r\nRather,
    a good Hebrew font will be below the x-height of the uppercase English letter,
    and below the x-height of the lowercase English letter, and the stroke widths
    should match."
  created: '2010-10-19 05:20:28'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: ">> An o-ketz is used long before hafont.com decided it was a good word for
    a serif.\r\n\r\nOf course. But I had never seen it used anywhere before, so that
    is what I quoted.\r\n\r\n>> A good Hebrew font does not reach the x-height of
    the lowercase English letter, because then it will appear too small in comparison
    with the English font.\r\n>> A good Hebrew font does not reach the x-height of
    the uppercase English letter either, because then it will appear too big in comparison
    with the English font.\r\n\r\nYou must have misunderstood. I said:\r\n<em>4. Sharing
    proportions <strong>seems</strong> ideal, for example aligning the Hebrew body
    height with the Latin x-height, but in reality the best proportions for use with
    u&lc Latin is somewhere between the cap- and x-height. Extenders may want to follow
    similar measurements with the Latin extenders - but only if that is feasibly allowed
    by the proportions of the Latin glyphs and Hebrew body height.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I meant was, for most cases, where the the text is in both upper- and lowercase,
    you should make the Hebrew body height somewhere between the cap- and x-height
    of the Latin. But for the rare case when the latin is in lowercase only, the Hebrew
    should align at the x-height <em>optically</em>.  (Read: very slightly larger
    than x-height, to compensate for extenders.Likewise, when the latin is all-caps,
    then the hebrew should align to cap-height <em>optically.</em> Understand what
    I mean?\r\n\r\n>> What is a serif? Many scholars belief that it was an area on
    a letter intended for ink to gather. I think that this opinion is lame, for many
    fonts have serifs that play an important part in the attractiveness of the entire
    design.\r\n\r\nMy understanding was that serifs where calligraphic finishes at
    the ends of strokes, at least in Latin designs. People speculate these originated
    from inscriptions in stone, where they were used sort of as a grid. Others point
    out these were probably first written on somehow by a scribe. Whatever the case,
    no one knows the true original purpose of serifs. Regardless, they serve a purpose
    for many fonts today."
  created: '2010-10-19 06:13:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "So, the height of the Hebrew is somewhere between the x-height of the lowercase
    and the cap-height of the uppercase, as you mention. \r\n\r\nI propose that the
    distance of the height is determined by the width - (where the width of most of
    the Hebrew letters is wider, then their height is lower; where the width of most
    of the Hebrew letters is narrower, then their height is taller) - and the stroke
    width - (where the stroke width of the Hebrew letters is wider, then their height
    is lower; where the stroke width of the Hebrew letters is narrower, then their
    height is taller).\r\n\r\nThese two factors determine compatible appearance, the
    amount of text within a given area, and the matching 'color' of the text."
  created: '2010-10-19 06:28:28'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: ">> I propose that the distance of the height is determined by the width -
    (where the width of most of the Hebrew letters is wider, then their height is
    lower; where the width of most of the Hebrew letters is narrower, then their height
    is taller) - and the stroke width - (where the stroke width of the Hebrew letters
    is wider, then their height is lower; where the stroke width of the Hebrew letters
    is narrower, then their height is taller).\r\n\r\nI think this makes a good deal
    of sense. Since I hadn't done any tests that far, I hadn't figured out where the
    overall width of the Hebrew would fit in. I also haven't gotten the horizontal
    proportions down, so that's also part of the reason."
  created: '2010-10-19 07:05:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In general, I'm of the opinion that in harmonising different script one should
    focus on overall weight and proportion, with secondary attention to featural harmonisation
    only within the limits of the cultural conventions of the individual scripts,
    e.g. one should avoid trying to make Hebrew look like Latin or Latin look like
    Hebrew. That said, there are situations in which the overall context of a piece
    of lettering or typography admits of such things. The images below are from the
    Holocaust memorial at the Jewish cemetery in Prague. Within the overall architectural
    and graphic context of the memorial, the decision to write the Czech text with
    a Hebrew ductus makes good sense and is visually arresting:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/praguememhebrew_5423.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/praguememczech_4408.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:26:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I agree that the width of the strokes is in deed important.\r\n\r\nUnless
    the font design can alter this, as Boruch Gorkin did in his Arial Hebrew, it comes
    last.\r\n\r\nIf not, it is first."
  created: '2010-10-20 18:57:13'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think the "sans" fonts, for the most part, follow different rules in Hebrew,
    because the idea is to appear monoline.
  created: '2010-10-21 03:51:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Which different rules? About matching to English.\r\n\r\nSans looks bigger
    in any language. So, I would set the Hebrew lower, even if it is very narrow."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:57:24'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Well, I think Hebrew and Latin sans fonts can more easily match than their
    serif counterparts, because to make the fonts appear monoline, the horizontal
    strokes must be slightly thinner than vertical. So the Hebrew and Latin forms
    match more closely.
  created: '2010-10-21 20:18:20'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I agree.\r\n\r\nSans here means usually mono-width of the strokes. David
    is not really mono-width.\r\n\r\nPlus, Hebrew is vertical dominant, while Latin
    is horizontal. I think that you refer to this.\r\n\r\nBut Hebrew and Latin can
    be \"matched\", even where Hebrew is vertical dominant, and where Latin is horizontal
    dominant, by apply a well-known graphic art principal referred to as \"color\"
    - the overall color of the texts; meaning, the relationship between the black
    or filled in areas of the page, and the white spaces, the unfilled in areas of
    the page.\r\n\r\nThe goal is to create a balance or harmony between the black
    and white of the lines of type.\r\n\r\nI say \"lines of type\" and not the entire
    page.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nIf it were the entire page, and the text had increased
    leading or line-spacing, then the Hebrew type (if matched to the Latin - as opposed
    to the Latin being matched to the Hebrew) would need wider widths and increased
    white space inside the letter strokes.\r\n\r\nAltering the letter and word spacing
    would look wierd, and be incompatibe with the Latin."
  created: '2010-10-21 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: This counsel applies to mixing any Roman and non-Roman languages together,
    except Arabic and Farsi etc.
  created: '2010-10-21 21:11:26'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "I have designed a hebrew font to work nicly with helvetica.\r\nhere is a
    sample\r\nsan serif fonts are easier to match[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newletter_6637.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-23 20:23:27'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "I have just returned from a trip and find all this dialog.  While I am digesting
    it,\r\na quick comment on Typograph's Hebrew for Helvetica.\r\n\r\nSome of the
    Hebrew letters seem to have little serifs on the top, particularly on\r\nthe aleph,
    ayin, tsadeh and tsadeh sofit, and the shin. Why did you feel it necessary\r\nto
    add these short horizontals?\r\n\r\nMike\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 00:47:46'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Hi Mike, how is your ruject progressing???\r\nthat is the featur of the typeface.\r\nIt
    is a very simple and clean typeface but highly legible.\r\nThis face is considered
    Sans Serif (some will reffer to it as SLAB, But i don't thing so.) the short horizontals
    makes the face mor readable.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newletter_4515.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-25 03:48:53'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Typograph\r\nThe font looks good when seen as a whole page. The short horizontals
    are less obvious.\r\n\r\nYou say \"short horizontals make the face more readable\"
    and that makes me think that the purpose if serifs is just that! My own opinion
    (maybe a widespread view) is that serif fonts are more readable than sans serif.
    \r\n\r\nHowever when there is not too much text, sans serif fonts are better looking.\r\nMike\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-26 14:53:11'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "Here is a example of some English and Hebrew, side by side. The font is Tahoma.\r\nThere
    is a obvious imbalance is the shade of greyness of the two texts. Why didn't \r\nthe
    designer make the Hebrew more bold to match the English. Probably simply\r\nbecause
    he or she wasn't asked to... but maybe was told to use the same stroke width.\r\nMike\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hebrew_and_tahoma_4270.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 14:58:03'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Thanks for that example of not quite evenness! That's helpful for me. :)\r\n\r\nI
    think Matthew Carter made the matching Hebrew for his Tahoma. It could have been
    someone else though."
  created: '2010-10-26 16:55:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was looking through the various Hebrew faces on MyFonts to find out if
    the glyph repertoire of Code Page 1255 was indeed typical. I noticed that - as
    for Roman fonts - there were many display faces, many sans-serif faces, many calligraphic
    faces... but not that many classic faces.\r\n\r\nLooking at Frank Ruehl as displayed
    there, it seemed like that face showed its age, and gives a visual impression
    more like a Scotch Roman than Times Roman. So I thought to look through and see
    what there was that could be used instead of it.\r\n\r\nLooking through hundreds
    of faces, I found these:\r\n\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/lighthouse/hamuel-nine-five/|Hamuel
    95]]\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/lighthouse/kitra-77/|Kitra 77]]\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/le-be-mf/|LeBe]]\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/mimi-mf/|Mimi]]\r\n[[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/frenkel-mf/|Frenkel]]\r\n\r\nNow,
    there were other ones also suitable for text use. I excluded Mugdar from consideration
    as I thought of it as specialized, like Optima. And not being a reader of Hebrew,
    I couldn't tell if [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/parshanut-mf/|Parshanut]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/or-halevana-mf/|Or Halevana]] or [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/new-livorno-mf/|New
    Livorno]] might have been considered acceptable for standard text use, and so
    I erred on the side of caution and dropped them from the list.\r\n\r\nAnd many
    other fine faces I excluded from consideration as being calligraphic in nature,
    although for a face to be calligraphic appears to be more normal in Hebrew typography
    than in Latin typography.\r\n\r\nIt is, of course, the people who live in Israel
    and use Hebrew who would know what aesthetic to apply to Hebrew typefaces, but
    I am curious as to whether my guess as to what looks ordinary like Frank Ruehl,
    but a bit cleaner and more modern than it, is correct."
  created: '2010-10-31 04:24:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "these fonts Mimi, Frenkel, Mugdar, Parshanut are not very good type faces
    at all, they are very naive and poorly designed.\r\nI don't think any of these
    woul'd realy fit for long amounts of text.\r\n\r\nReal text fonts are very hard
    to come by and take much more work than in the fonts  previously mentioned.\r\n\r\nLIBI
    & New Livorno, are considered to be OTIIOT MEKOROT, don't know about standart
    text fonts.\r\n\r\nHalevana, is a nice display font.\r\n\r\nfrome what i can see,
    Hamuel 95 & Kitra 77, can fit your definition"
  created: '2010-10-31 04:58:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I noticed the Schocken typeface mentioned in the annotated bibliography of
    Hebrew typesetting by Dr. Sivan Toledo as another example for my short list...
    and found that Franciska Baruch was its designer, thanks to a Google Books result.
    But she is not even mentioned on the web, except once on a genealogy web site,
    although this could simply be because I am using the wrong spelling of her name
    (as the one who commissioned the face is known as both Salman Schocken and Salmon
    Schocken...) - or that of course she is amply commemorated and famed on the Web,
    but only on Hebrew-language web sites.\r\n\r\nThe mention of her name claims that
    Schocken is based on Frank-Ruhl and Stam. I could see Frank-Ruhl and Meruba, but
    not Stam... unless the caption in the annotated bibliography is scrambled..."
  created: '2010-10-31 05:01:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'Ah: if I spell her name "Franziska Baruch", <em>then</em> I see references
    to her.'
  created: '2010-11-01 02:35:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Looking on MyFonts, I see that Stam MF is similar to the face shown in the
    annotated bibliography.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, in a Letraset catalogue I have,
    S'tam looks like a conventional Hebrew typeface - no little bulges on the vertical
    strokes, and the heavy strokes have rounded corners, not pointy ones - except
    that the contrast between thick and thin strokes is excessive.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    S'tam and Stam might be two very different words in Hebrew (the ' may stand for
    an Aleph, after all) making these two unrelated typefaces.\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, the Meruba in the annotated bibliography is a conventional face; the one
    on MyFonts is a squared-off design, almost sans-serif (maybe more like an Egyptian?)."
  created: '2010-11-01 06:36:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There are a few typefaces called Stam, based upon one common ancient design.\r\n\r\nOne
    is basic, and the others have embellishments. The latter are used for titling.
    Until about 40 years ago, Stam was popular in Israel, as it preserved a traditional
    look.\r\n\r\nStam is an acronym for three ritual objects: Sefer Torah, Tefillin,
    and Mezuzot, and often refers to the composition performed by Jewish ritual scribes
    in composing these objects.\r\n\r\nThe actual type design that they use is not
    Stam, but actually Ktav Stam, which is quite different.\r\n\r\nClearly, the design
    of Stam, many centuries ago, was modeled after Ktav Stam.\r\n\r\nThe ' after the
    S apparently is an allusion to its being an acronym, or has no meaning at all.
    Often, matters in the Letraset of Israel catalogue were made simply for legal
    reasons. I met the old owner in the mid eighties.\r\n\r\nLetraset of Israel was
    notorious to producing popular designs with minor differences, and subtle name
    changes, to avoid payment of royalties.\r\n\r\nI believe that this is why Henri
    Friedlaeder wanted to offer special insights, because I sent him a modest royalty
    check, as I felt it was the right to do. He liked that sincerity."
  created: '2010-11-01 07:04:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I was looking at a Letraset catalog for North America, with only a handful
    of Hebrew type designs.\r\n\r\nAfter learning about Frank-R\xFChl, though, now
    I've learned some more, and I realize that that is a specialized design, much
    as Scotch Roman or Ionic No. 5 is for the Latin alphabet, and instead, if I want
    a more generic design as a starting point - like Times Roman, Baskerville, or
    Century Expanded might be for the Latin alphabet - it is Vilna (or Romm, or Siddur),
    of which you yourself have done one revival, that I should be looking at."
  created: '2010-11-02 07:54:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Here is a rough sketch of what Hebrew might look like if existing scripts
    for the language were used to give it upper and lower case, and italics, in imitation
    of Roman script, but without taking any letterforms from an external source:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hulc2_6425.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    text used is from the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. The first sentence
    is normal, the second in italics. Note that the italics are, like Roman italics,
    sloped forwards in the direction of reading - and, thus, to the left, not to the
    right."
  created: '2010-11-13 05:03:00'
- author:
    name: Michael Cunliffe Thompson
    picture: 109540
  body: "quadiblock,\r\nWhat on earth is the text at the top of image! Looks like
    sinaitic or phoenician!\r\n\r\nLack of capital letters makes it hard for less
    practiced readers to recognize proper names. \r\n\r\nHere is a case of maybe deliberate
    ambiguity in a poem called Ahavnu Can by Yehuda Amichai:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/came_out_for_the_hope_6499.jpg]\r\n\r\nIn
    the middle line above the word hatikva (the hope) occurs in Hebrew but we don't
    know if it refers to the National Anthem because the is no capital letter with
    which to capitalize the word Hatikva.\r\nMike"
  created: '2010-11-16 01:39:31'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "> What on earth is the text at the top of image! Looks like sinaitic or phoenician!\r\n\r\nThat
    would be ancient Hebrew (for the most part). It of course <em>could</em> work,
    but it probably looks preposterous to modern eyes. You'd have to modify a lot
    so that it will have a structure closer to modern Hebrew. "
  created: '2010-11-16 06:22:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The illustration is crude, I admit. It was to illustrate that Hebrew does
    have, natively, the materials needed, if desired, to create a writing system similar
    to that of the Latin alphabet, where one has an upper case (modern square script
    - the Kaph at the beginning of both sentences), a lower case (ancient Semitic),
    and italics where the lower case (cursive) has a cursive quality. (The semi-cursive
    \"Rashi\" script could have been considered as well.)\r\n\r\nOne could do the
    same with Georgian, by using the current Mhedruli script as the basis for the
    cursive italic lower case, and the old Hutsuri script for everything else.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Armenian already has an upper and lower case, and the cursive could be obtained
    from Armenian handwriting.\r\n\r\nBut Greek has a problem, it seems to me. The
    existing Greek lowercase is cursive already. A non-cursive Greek lower case could,
    I suppose, be derived from Cyrillic as a model."
  created: '2010-11-16 18:45:20'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Homogenizing all these alphabets sounds great in theory. And it would be
    extremely interesting. But no one ever said they need to be the same. And you
    have to ask if making them work the same and have all the same types of emphasis
    makes these languages no longer themselves. What I mean is, if Hebrew is Hebrew,
    let it be Hebrew. Your example does use only Hebrew, but from widely varying eras.
    I think native Hebrew speakers wont except it. At the same time, speakers of Latin-like
    languages might like it better. I think Hebrew cursive / italics would work, and,
    as it seems, sometimes Israeli newspapers and magazines do use computer generated
    slanted versions. But from what I understand, most people don't think cursive
    are formal enough for most jobs, although it's great for handwriting.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, we should let Hebrew be Hebrew and English be English. At the same
    time improvements and developments come along, sometimes only as trends. So I
    think, yes, italic is feasible, but a bicameral alphabet ain't gonna happen for
    Hebrew. :)"
  created: '2010-11-17 03:37:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I do not dispute that; as some people have proposed more radical reforms of
    the Hebrew script, though, I wanted to show that <em>if</em> it were desired to
    give it the properties of Latin script, this could be done with its own materials,
    without the need for something so radical as the reform proposed by Hugh Schonfield.
  created: '2010-11-18 01:03:33'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Ah, so it's an <em>if</em> sort of thing. To tell the truth, <em>if</em> I
    had time, I probably would do something like you proposed, and maybe in a couple
    styles. It would be great exercise for the typographic mind. :) But maybe pointless
    otherwise. Though some time in the future someone might find it and think there
    was some sort of movement. :P
  created: '2010-11-19 06:39:50'
- author:
    name: YaelKrieger
  body: "Hi Guys,\r\n\r\nDont know if Im allowed to ask this question under this forum..
    But Ill go ahead and try anyway.\r\nI need a hebrew typeface that looks good with/
    looks similar to Garamond italic. \r\nI need for the navigational buttons in a
    website set in Garamond (see attached) with an equivalent website set in hebrew.\r\n\r\nId
    love a script hebrew (since it is less formal that the block hebrew) and something
    with low contrast and an italics slant.\r\n\r\nAny chance you can help me out??\r\n\r\nThanks!
    :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Website_6500.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-03 13:19:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: For regular Garamond, at least, the only one that comes to mind is [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/masterfont/david-mf/regular/characters.html|David]].
  created: '2011-05-25 00:19:47'
- author:
    name: JohniToney
  body: "I had love a script hebrew. I am a Hebrew Typographer.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n______________________\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.quicklingo.com/en/professional-translation/legal-translation\">Legal
    Translation</a>\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-06 01:12:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry to have missed this thread when it was active.\r\nI might try to
    revive it though. Yes, that is a threat.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-08 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think the subject will come up again, though probably on a different thread,
    as I'm working a a Hebrew/Latin pair. :)
  created: '2012-03-17 03:22:57'
date: '2010-10-16 01:29:16'
title: Matching Hebrew and Latin

---
