---
author:
  name: Typograph
  picture: 115034
body: "I have seen different aproaches for sheva na and qamats qatan indictions.\r\n1.
  A mark above (a circle, MAGEN DAVID or a Rafe) the letter\r\n2. A bolder (somtimes
  squer) Sheva than the useal.\r\n\r\nAs a type designer a don't like the aproach
  of using uncommon symbols.\r\nand more so misusing a symbol that indicates RAFE
  for indicating Sheva Na\r\n\r\nAs a designer i don't like the bolder or squer sheva
  that makes the text look not good.\r\n\r\nin this discotion I would like to hear
  your opinions about this matter with tour reasoning.\r\n\r\nOr in simple words\r\nWhat
  in your opinion is the best way of indicating Sheva na, Qamats Qatan & dagesh Hazaq."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I have seen different aproaches for sheva na and qamats qatan indictions.\r\n1.
    A mark above (a circle, MAGEN DAVID or a Rafe) the letter\r\n2. A bolder (somtimes
    squer) Sheva than the useal.\r\n\r\nKehos (Chabd) uses an asterisk.\r\n\r\nKehos
    USA follows Rabbi Zalman Henna, while Kehos Israel follows the Minchat Shai.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Rabbi Shmuel Rabin of Torah, the view of Rabbi Zalman Henna produces more shva-nas
    than the view of the Minchat Shai.\r\n\r\nThose that mark the shva-na with a bolder
    shva, as you did in the your sample, follow which shita view?"
  created: '2010-10-20 15:16:34'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "what i did is because this aproach is becoming popular in here israel.\r\nI
    was thinging maybe to hav the sheva na regular and a circle (a hollow circil)
    for nach."
  created: '2010-10-20 15:47:50'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "but if it's nach, why couldn't it not have any symbol?\r\n\r\nthe first shva
    at the beginning of a word also has nothing.\r\nthis is a contradition."
  created: '2010-10-20 16:46:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the hollow circle is going to be hard to harmonize with the other
    nikkud. \r\n\r\nFor the kamatz katan, that is sometimes done with a line with
    a dot under it (like a patach with a hirik below). You could use the \"T\" form
    for the regular kamatz and the line with a dot below for the kamatz katan. This
    would keep the same design elements, so it would not stick out so much. I think
    some siddurim already do this, but I think they make the kamatz katan symbol also
    bigger, which I wouldn't do. The kamatz katan is relatively rare, and I don't
    think the difference has to be so prominent.\r\n\r\nHow about for the shva na,
    having a dot above and a short horizontal line below, indicating some pronunciation?
    I haven't tried this, but it might work, and would be more harmonious with the
    current design elements in the nikkud. \r\n\r\nAnother possibility is a dot above
    and a short vertical line below, or two short vertical lines, one over the other.
    There is a danger of mixing it up with the dreaded meteg, though :) Also you might
    have a space problem. I think the horizontal line below is a more promising direction.
    \  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 16:55:39'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "<cite>For the kamatz katan, that is sometimes done with a line with a dot
    under it...</cite>\r\n\r\nWilliam, this a nice graphic idea, but it is conceptually
    wrong, since the \"pattach-hirik\" combination you speak of is actually the original
    Tiberian way of writing a kamatz. The combined shape (a line with with \"droplet\",
    or a \"T\") we know as kamatz today seems to be a later evolution (by the early
    printers perhaps). \r\n\r\nAs I said before, there is really no allowance under
    the Tiberian nikkud for these differentiations and, although I know some people
    want to see these differences represented graphically, it is an unfortunate development
    form the purely typographic point of view. Making up for the lack of grammar knowledge
    by screwing with this venerable and very laconic system is just sad.\r\n\r\nI
    also think that including a kamatz koton in Unicode was a mistake. "
  created: '2010-10-20 18:33:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Why is it a mistake? If a text has been edited to include the kamatz katan
    and you want change the font of that text...\r\n\r\nI also don't think the kamatz
    katan is <em>that</em> rare. I mean the word \"Kol\" (All) and \"Tzohorayim\"
    (afternoon), \"Hokhma\" (wisdom) are fairly common words...."
  created: '2010-10-20 18:39:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> I think the hollow circle is going to be hard to harmonize with the other
    nikkud.\r\n\r\nI think that Eli means above the letter.\r\n\r\nEli, what do you
    mean?"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:45:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I don't think, Boruch, the encoding in Unicode was mistake.\r\n\r\nI advocate
    that it should be done also for the shva-na, and the shva-nach, just like the
    vav is encoded twice.\r\n\r\nThe shva should remain, when not differentiated.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    there should be an encoding also made for dagesh kal and dagesh chazak, with a
    special symbol for either, in addition to an ordinary dagesh.\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    there should be an encoding also made for the vowels which are kal and chazak,
    with a special symbol for either, in addition to an ordinary vowel.\r\n\r\nIf
    this occurs, and its supported by font makers, with 5 years Jewish teachers and
    students will learn these rules.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 18:54:00'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Raphael, I am not sure whom you are addressing with the \"mistake\" question.\r\n\r\nBut
    let me pose the following hypothetical question: How would you people feel if
    someone proposed (nay, implemented out of whole cloth) a change into the Latin
    alphabet structure by adding two versions for, say a vowel \"a\" (one for short
    vowel, one for long vowel)? The reasoning would be to help immigrants learn how
    to pronounce English better...\r\n\r\nI bet all of you would agree this would
    be insane. Well, the same applies to these new typographic aberrations with variant
    qomatzim, shevaim, and daggeshim! I know some people WANT them, and I understand
    the commercial realities, but I think it would be FAR better to promote learning
    of grammar over this wanton destruction of such a beautiful system."
  created: '2010-10-20 18:56:54'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: 'Baruch: Well that''s not 100% true. There are phonetic founts for this purpose
    in the English language. When typesetting the new Encyclopedia Judaica we used
    all sorts of these letters in many of the articles. In fact, there is even an
    english unicode letter called a shwa which is an upside down e. I have tried on
    several occasions to use this as a transliteration option for a Hebrew with no
    success unfortunately.'
  created: '2010-10-20 19:00:25'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "gohebrew, we are talking at cross-purposes here. I have made my view clear
    \u2013 I am sure that this is a typographic horror and an ill-conceived notion.
    I wish it would just go away. \r\n\r\nNaturally, if you think it is a good idea,
    you will also want these characters to be part of the Unicode."
  created: '2010-10-20 19:03:27'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Raphael:\r\n\r\n1. If this was for such a narrow usage as you describe, I
    would be quiet. Alas, this is spreading into mainstream publications of Chumashim
    and other texts with nikkud and taamim.\r\n\r\n2. Even for a narrow usage, it
    would require a major typographic effort to create something that really works.
    As things stands now, some guy in some publishing house (I think it called \"Simanim\",
    not really sure) came up with this \"brilliant\" idea of using fat square dots
    for sheva na and daggesh chazak, and an extended line on the komazt katan, and
    now this ugliness is being seriously discussed on a typographic forum!"
  created: '2010-10-20 19:11:01'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Raphael, let me illustrate the KIND of approach that would be typographically
    OK in those kind of narrow applications you describe:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hebrew_phonetic_system_5616.gif]"
  created: '2010-10-20 20:27:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Baruch, I think your implementation of the kamatz katan as I mentioned\u2014perhaps
    others have already done it\u2014doesn't look half bad. Your sheva na looks too
    weird, as does your dagesh kal. My concept, which is different than the philosophy
    now, is that the difference between the sheva na and nach should be slight, you
    can mistake one for the other, and have to look closely to differentiate. You
    could just discretely make the sheva na with square dots, but NOT big and ugly.
    By the way, you could also use the patach-hirik look as the normal kamatz and
    the \"T\" one for the kamatz katan...\r\n\r\nThe point is, that in a siddur, if
    a person wants to learn the pronunciation, they are going to have many times going
    over the same text, and these \"instructional\" variations don't have to shout
    at the reader, so long as they are noticeable when he or she looks closely.   \r\n\r\nRaphael,
    that's my point about the kamatz katan also. It's true that kol and chochma are
    very common words, but there really aren't that many which are common, so flagging
    them very discretely will be a way for people to learn them, without messing up
    the look of the nikkud, as Baruch says. \r\n\r\nBaruch, the problem with your
    argument is that you can also say to people like me, who struggle without nikkud,
    or those who are totally unable to sound out words without them: go learn your
    Hebrew! Text with nikkud look pretty ugly in any case, if you ask me, compared
    to straight text with Hebrew letters.  \r\n\r\nAn injunction to learn Hebrew would
    be good advice, but would not address what is likely to remain a problem in the
    diaspora for a long time. "
  created: '2010-10-20 22:00:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "This would be confusing to the ordinary Jew.\r\n\r\nWhy not keep everything
    as it was for centuries? Time tested.\r\n\r\nThen, the person educated in Hebrew
    grammar can see simple graphic symbols positioned above the letter, similar to
    the asterisk floating above the Hebrew letter, and the standard shva below the
    letter, in the books of Kehot. Again,  Time tested.\r\n\r\nSo, too, with a dagesh
    kal.\r\n\r\nSo, too, with the kamatza katan and the kamatz gadol.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-20 22:41:13'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "William & gohebrew:\r\n\r\nYou might have missed my point, I did not even
    for a second suggest that such a system should actually be implemented in a regular-purpose
    text with <cite>taamim</cite> and <cite>nikkud</cite>. I was simply answering
    Raphael's point about a hypothetical specialized phonetic text. My illustration
    was intended to show the KIND of approach that would be needed EVEN for such a
    purpose \u2013 that a NEW system with clear differentiation between the marks
    would have to be invented. For the general audience (and certainly for people
    that are having trouble with the language) there is really no need for any of
    these grammatical nuances to be graphically represented. \r\n\r\ngohebrew: <cite>\"Why
    not keep everything as it was for centuries?\"</cite>\r\nMy point exactly \u2013
    leave the damn thing alone :) All the \"time-tested\" stuff you site is pure nonsense
    \u2013 these are all very recent inventions. (The Kehoth siddur type approach
    is not really the subject of my derision, since it doesn't feature the stupid
    new komatz koton and dagesh hozok).\r\n\r\nWilliam: \r\n<cite>\"Text with nikkud
    look pretty ugly in any case, if you ask me, compared to straight text with Hebrew
    letters.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess if you feel this way, you would not be troubled
    if this system was further eroded by featuring two kinds of dots of slightly different
    shape (a typographic horror). I, needless to say, strongly disagree. I truly believe
    the Tiberian system of <cite>nikkud</cite> to be absolutely stunningly beautiful,
    and I hate seeing it messed with.\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 02:31:11'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Boruch:\r\nPersonaly I agree with you, but this issue is becoming more and
    more popular, wich creats the need for a solution.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 02:51:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I guess \"ugly\" is a little too strong. Let me revise that to \"cluttered.\"
    I feel the same way about what languages full of accents, like Polish, do to the
    Roman alphabet. I just find it less than ideal aesthetically as a solution. Of
    course, you can make it as good as possible with good design, but it still isn't
    as clean and graceful as the letters themselves. \r\n\r\nYour \"forget the whole
    thing\" about adding distinctions has an appeal. Yet honestly I don't find those
    distinctions as for example executed in the Koren Siddur look worse than the regular
    ones, and in fact are helpful.  "
  created: '2010-10-21 02:56:46'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Eli, I understand the dilemma \u2013 people want it. But, correct me of I
    am wrong, isn't this only becoming popular in the haredi sector \u2013 among people
    with the least aesthetic training of all? And if so, isn't it incumbent upon the
    those making typefaces aimed at this audience to EDUCATE them and not to simply
    descend to their current ignorant level? "
  created: '2010-10-21 02:59:26'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Will, please spend some time contemplating the pure geometric beauty and
    clarity of the nikkud and taamim in the Aleppo Codex and then tell me you still
    want to mess with it. :)\r\nhttp://www.aleppocodex.org/newsite/index.html \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 03:04:38'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  And if so, isn't it incumbent upon the those making typefaces aimed at
    this audience to EDUCATE them ...\r\n\r\nHere, here, I agree."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:13:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Come on, Baruch, what would Gafni say?\r\n\r\nThe Allepo nikkud does look
    so hot to trot. Was it even drawn by guy who scribed the text.\r\n\r\nIt's very
    simplistic, and might I say kinda poor.\r\n\r\nI bet the guy who added it wasn't
    even a scribe.\r\n\r\nWe don't pray to Allepo. It can be improved."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:19:01'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "People dont want to use it for education reasons.\r\nthere are 2 main reasons.\r\n1.
    when producing a fonetic reaslation in a siddur or machzor.\r\n2. after shmuel
    riarchi came out with his SIMANIM Tanach, people want to do the same for comercial
    reasons.\r\n\r\nnot for educating students."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:23:57'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Isreal, I would ask you to please keep personal comments off this forum.
    I have never had any connection to any Gafni and couldn't possibly care less what
    he has to say about anything, especially this topic.\r\n\r\nI am not going to
    debate the beauty or lack thereof of the Alepo Codex \u2013 you can go ahead and
    work on improving it, but the discussion of this level holds zero interest to
    me. Sorry."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:25:14'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Eli, right \u2013 it was the \"Simanim\" that was the original culprit! From
    my experience, the people who try to short-cut real grammar learning by using
    the \"Simanim\" tikkun still sound uneducated. What a shame it is..."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:31:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Excuse me, I think you misunderstand what I mean by \"educational purposes\"
    from your citing these three examples. This happens commonly by people whose mother-tongue
    is not English, or 'American'.\r\n\r\nBy \"educational purposes\", I refer to
    the classes in Christian or Cathlic Bible schools, Hebrew school, and intelligent
    Israeli schools that teach Hebrew Grammar.\r\n\r\nAll Bible and nikkud-based Mishnah,
    Talmud etc. is digital, and costs little or nothing, as it is public domain.\r\n\r\nA
    teacher presents the same text, in the same font side by side. One side doesn't
    have the shva-na marked. One side does. He or she explains why that is. He shows
    examples. The student understands. Instead of being ignorant about shva-na, as
    most people are, in a few generations most people will now about a shva-na like
    a comma or period."
  created: '2010-10-21 03:35:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Baruch, that an 'inside' joke. Do you still joke?
  created: '2010-10-21 03:37:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: I recall that you said at a farbreghen over Benadictine that there was only
    a way into Lubavitch, but no way out. Did you find a way out?
  created: '2010-10-21 03:39:19'
- author:
    name: Baruch Gorkin
    picture: 113908
  body: "Israel, you are getting on my nerves \u2013 I did not come here to discuss
    my religious beliefs and practices. If you are interested, you can email me."
  created: '2010-10-21 04:02:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "\u05D1\u05D1\u05E7\u05E9\u05D4"
  created: '2010-10-21 04:08:47'
- author:
    name: ezrakatz
    picture: 117654
  body: "I am a Jew from the diaspora, and most of my Hebrew knowledge is from religious
    school and the siddur. I would not normally comment on Hebrew typography, but
    because I have a need for phonetic marks, my perspective might be useful. \r\n\r\nThe
    qamats qatan is a very useful mark for those who do not speak Hebrew fluently.
    A special mark for the sh'va na is not so important because the rules for pronouncing
    it are very predictable (elementary students learn these rules in their first
    year of Hebrew school).\r\n\r\nI have seen styles 1 and 2 used together in a text,
    one indicating the qamats gadol the other indicating the qamats qatan. I have
    also seen a curved version for the qamats qatan like style 4. Style 3 will definitely
    confuse non-Israelis and students.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qamats_3992.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-21 18:18:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Ezra,\r\n\r\nBaruch haba. Welcome.\r\n\r\nThis graphic is interesting.\r\n\r\n1
    and 2 are confusing in my view. 1 should be extended much lower to be clearly
    distinguished from 2.\r\n\r\nHow do you that you and your classmates from long
    ago do not need a kamatz katan symbol?"
  created: '2010-10-21 19:57:56'
- author:
    name: ezrakatz
    picture: 117654
  body: "I remember seeing in a prayerbook two different styles of qamats, one that
    was straight and one that had a rounded bottom. My guess is that the publisher
    borrowed a qamats from another typeface to make the distinction. \r\n\r\nBecause
    there is no standard symbol for the qamats qatan, it is often ignored by someone
    who relies only on the nikudot for pronunciation. "
  created: '2010-10-22 03:31:08'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: in reality you won't be able to distinguish these at the kind of point sizes
    that siddurim are printed.
  created: '2010-10-22 06:27:51'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "as a type designer i am agains making up weird new shapes.\r\nletters and
    Nikud must maintain an authentic look and not somthing people have to guess and
    learn from sdrach.\r\n\r\nwhat do you guys say about this kind of indication.\r\nit
    maintains the original look and is clear and does not involve enlarging the shapes
    to unproportional weight that looks weird.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shevana_6648.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-23 23:45:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I agree with Eli.\r\n\r\nBut I plan on making new symbols for Hebrew grammar
    based fonts with\r\ndifferent kinds of kamatz (existing)\r\ndifferent kinds of
    dagesh, mapiq etc. (not existing)\r\netc.\r\n\r\nI was thinking just to add a
    circle around dagesh and others?\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?"
  created: '2010-10-24 02:51:57'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "gohebrew, I don't know.\r\ni am waiting for rephael freeman to say his opinion.\r\nI
    realy don't like the SIMANIM method of distinguishing these nikudim, i think they
    are ugly from a dasign point of view and incorrect from a typographical point
    of view.\r\n\r\nmimiking him, means taking his system and making it into a standared.\r\nI
    realize that as the first one to add this functionality to an open type font,
    it might lead to a standared, and that i don't want to do.\r\n\r\nsome might disagree
    about doing it at all at any level, others disagree on doing it on an OT level,
    but if we are allready doing it, we should come to an agreement of the best way
    of indicating these grammer distictions"
  created: '2010-10-24 03:05:37'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I think that the use of the enlarged kamatz for the kamatz katan (and chataf
    kamatz katan) and the use of an enlarged shva isn't very pretty but has become
    so common place that it's become acceptable.\r\n\r\nThe dagesh chazak is harder.
    A larger dot won't work with most fonts. And distinguishing between a square and
    a circle (regardless of ugliness) won't work at small point sizes.\r\n\r\nI'm
    inclined to leave the dagesh chazak.\r\n\r\nRegarding mileil, again the use of
    the meteg is of course wrong, but everyone does it and people understand it. That
    seems to be the most typographically acceptable way of indicating it."
  created: '2010-10-26 15:15:39'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "there should be in hebrew unicode\r\na meteg\r\nkav mafsik\r\nand a symbol
    for Mileil & Miera\r\n\r\ntoday they use all this with a meteg wich leads to confution"
  created: '2010-10-26 17:37:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Eli, what is Mileil & Miera?
  created: '2010-11-01 08:14:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, see Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_phonology\r\n\r\nand:
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_language#Stress\r\n\r\nIt's whether the last
    (milra) or penultimate syllable is emphasized. My impression is that Ashkenazi,
    as spoken by Hassidim, under the influence of Yiddish gets this regularly wrong,
    by \"official\" grammatical standards. Ashkenazi shifts the emphasis to the the
    first syllable. SHAbas instead of shaBAT  So much for \"sacred\" pronunciation.
    \r\n\r\nAlso note the table of traditional national variations in Hebrew pronunciation
    in the first link. \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 13:56:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nThank you for the links, and for the explanations.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ Ashkenazi, as spoken by Hassidim, ...\r\n\r\nThis is true by most Chassidic
    groups.\r\n\r\nChabad-Lubavitch is mainly made up of Baalei Tshuva, people who
    became chassidic Jews from non-chassidic backgrounds. Those Chabad-Lubavitch chassidic
    Jews in Israel do not speak Hebrew, or even pray/study, like other chassidic or
    heredi non-chassidic Jews, in an Ashkenazic dialect. These Sephardic dialect speaking
    Jews number more than half of the Chabad-Lubavitch chassidic Jews in Israel. \r\n\r\nAs
    the rate of Baalei Tshuva increase rapidly more in Israel than in the Diaspora,
    it is likely that there will be more Chabad-Lubavitch chassidic Jews speaking
    with a Sephardic dialect, and not speaking Yiddish.\r\n\r\nIn America, most Chabad-Lubavitch
    chassidic Jews are Askenazic. I for example come from a Reform Judaism family,
    and changed my way of speaking, praying, and learning, to that of an Askenazic
    dialect, because I am an Askenazic Jew."
  created: '2010-11-01 14:15:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks, Israel, for the info on Chabad in Israel. I didn't know that. An interesting
    review of two books (one unsympathetic, one sympathetic) on the late Rebbe Schneerson
    in the Jewish Review of books...
  created: '2010-11-01 14:59:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nI can't click your links. Did you intend to place any?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 15:19:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think you are referring to \"the Chabad Paradox\", featured here at http://www.jewishreviewofbooks.com/\r\n\r\nWhere
    is the second book?"
  created: '2010-11-01 15:23:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: I see. This review covers two books.
  created: '2010-11-01 15:25:42'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "I face the issue of the kamatz katan both as a typographer and as a type
    designer. I agree with Baruch in that the patach with a dot underneath is, indeed,
    the way the kamatz was written in the Aleppo and Leningrad codices, thereby putting
    it off-limits for sue as a kamatz katan. I have seen it done, but I believe it\u2019s
    plain wrong. We\u2019re not free to do what we wish, we have to explore precedents;
    otherwise, we simply add confusion. But I disagree with Baruch\u2019s remark about
    the inclusion in the Unicode of kamatz katan (and hataf kamatz katan) being a
    mistake, for the reasons stated by Raphael. Both appear with sufficient regularity
    in siddur texts alone to justify their presence in fonts. \r\n\r\nI think we came
    up with a perfectly tradition-based, workable kamatz katan in the Milon font.
    It is a kamatz with an extended center bar, sufficient to be recognized immediately
    for what it is, without resorting to a bold character or other typographically
    obnoxious solutions. When the book was in progress, I shared it with Raphael,
    who thought the difference wouldn\u2019t be noticeable, but we now have the evidence
    of over 150,000 satisfied users, including a large number of rabbis and other
    learned types. Feel free to judge for yourself: http://www.rabbinicalassembly.org/Mahzor.KolNidrei.pdf\r\n\r\nIn
    the book linked above, we did not include the sh\u2019va na, nor did we differentiate
    dagesh kal from dagesh hazak. We did use the patach g\u2019nuvah, which is simply
    a typesetting issue, though I question its sense when used with ayin\u2014what
    does it mean? I realize, as most of you do, that one can descend into a perilous
    realm of hair splitting, adding symbols that are outside the Tiberian sources,
    but are, rather, the product of latter-day khokhma. (\u201CRabbi Hutzpis on one
    foot? Big deal, I can recite the entire Torah on just three toes!\u201D) The question
    in litugical Hebrew is which paytanim used which nikkudot\u2014if any, and how
    early they were applied. Without some sense of historical application, one might
    come to the conclusion that everything should be typeset in the International
    Phonetic Alphabet. There\u2019s great virtue in simplicity\u2014you either know,
    or you don\u2019t know\u2014and if you don\u2019t know, you can learn.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I recognize that for some, especially Jews who are from Persia or some Arabic-speaking
    lands, nikkud such as the dagesh hazak is clearly vocalized, whereas among Ashkenazic
    Jews no discernible sound is made. Therefore, it may be a worthwhile thing to
    differentiate, at least in material intended for certain communities. But again,
    we should look for typographical (or even calligraphic) precedents that appeared
    more than just once. We shouldn\u2019t try to reinvent the wheel, as Ezra has
    done. I\u2019m told that there\u2019s a special place in gehinnom for people who
    do that kind of thing! (Sorry, I\u2019m not at liberty to divulge my source.)\r\n\r\nBill,
    the Yiddish linguistics scholar Dovid Katz has proposed that the Asheknazic pronunciation
    of Hebrew may have been influenced by late Aramaic style more than by Yiddish\u2014and
    that Yiddish pronunciation, itself, as well as some of its syntax, were heavily
    influenced by Aramaic. There\u2019s no reason to think that the melding of Sephardic
    and Mizrahi phonemes one finds in Modern Hebrew have any greater claim on authenticity
    than do the phonemes of Ashkenaz. Why is Spanish or, say Persian, closer to \u201Cproper\u201D
    Hebrew than Middle High German? Linguistic influence is not measured in miles
    or kilometers. It was simply the case that, at a certain time in the 20th century,
    the desire to leave behind anything European was overwhelming. Yet, somehow, Judeo-Spanish
    was seen as \u201Ccleaner\u201D than Judeo-German. Don\u2019t believe the popular
    press. It puzzles me as to how American Jews got sucked into this agenda, though
    I do understand how and why it was sold. As for me, I continue to pronounce Hebrew
    as my father did, and his father before him, even if it means turned heads every
    time I say \u201Cyisgadal v\u2019yiskadash, sh\u2019meih raboh.\u201D And I am
    not a Hasid.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 18:26:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Scott-Martin, I did not mean to imply that Israeli pronunciation is somehow
    more pure or holy. I was just tweaking Israel's obsession of getting all the pronunciation
    \"right\" when there is no clear single standard for \"right\"\u2014and, as I
    read, there was a ruling that the Torah scroll should not have nikud as nikud
    are not mi-Sinai. \r\n\r\nI am imagining that Hebrew would sound better with the
    daled with out dagesh as \"th\" in \"the\", tav without dagesh as \"th\" in \"thin\"
    and gimmel without dagesh as \"g\" in \"George,\" and ayin as \"ng\". But this
    is not a well-informed opinion!  "
  created: '2010-11-01 19:15:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n>>  I was just tweaking Israel's obsession of getting all the
    pronunciation \"right\" when there is no clear single standard for \"right\"\u2014
    ...\r\n\r\nActually, these Hebrew grammar issues are independent of pronunciation
    obsessions. An Ashkenazi Jew says toe-may-toe, while a Sephardic Jew says toe-mah-toe.
    It's still that yummy red vegetable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-01 19:58:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Similarly, there should be an encoding also made for dagesh kal and dagesh
    chazak...\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nYou did forget the third dagesh (Bible): dagesh
    mavhin, used to distinguish or divide. \r\nouch. "
  created: '2010-11-01 20:54:56'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nAre you serious?\r\n\r\nThere are then 5 dageshes.\r\n\r\nOne
    dagesh, which is encoded in the Unicode, and is generic.\r\n\r\nA second dagesh
    is kal,\r\na third dagesh is chazak,\r\na fourth dagesh is mavhin,\r\nand a fifth
    'dagesh' is actually a mapik.\r\n\r\nCan you define each?\r\n\r\nBill, is this
    in Chomsky's book?"
  created: '2010-11-01 21:16:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI acquired Sefer Yesod ha-nikud (Hebrew Edition) from Amazon
    (very inexpensive). Which books are from the Minchat Shai and Rabbi Eliyahu HaBachur
    about shvah-na in particular?"
  created: '2010-11-01 22:08:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Sefer Yesod ha-nikud (Hebrew Edition) is by Rabbi Zalman Henna
  created: '2010-11-01 22:54:44'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: ">When the book was in progress, I shared it with Raphael, who thought the
    difference wouldn\u2019t be noticeable, but we now have the evidence of over 150,000
    satisfied users, including a large number of rabbis and other learned types. Feel
    free to judge for yourself:\r\n\r\nbut how many of the 150,000 customers even
    know what a kamatz katan is! Obviously <em>everyone</em> on this forum will be
    able to distinguish it, but <em>normal</em> people?\r\n\r\nKoren's kamatz is more
    noticable in my opinion, yet I know people who just can't see the difference."
  created: '2010-11-02 03:52:40'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: I understand your argument about the patach ganuv under the ayin, but then
    again, I bet everyone still mispronounces the patach ganuv under the mapik heh
    :-)
  created: '2010-11-02 03:55:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nIs a patach ganuv another name for a furtive patach?\r\n\r\nI
    prepare work on a shul's private siddur and used the furtive patach. It was well-received.
    When you educate anyone, the response is generally positive.\r\n\r\nSo, the Koren
    Siddur has both the shvah-na and the kamatz katan.\r\n\r\nCan you scan and post
    each glyph?"
  created: '2010-11-02 04:02:56'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "yes, the patach ganuv is the same as the furtive patach.\r\n\r\nThe Koren
    siddur indicates:\r\nkamatz katan\r\nshva na\r\nmileil by use of a meteg\r\npatach
    ganuv\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 04:55:59'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The furtive patach or patach ganuv is defined here:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niqqud\r\n\r\nA
    patach on a letters \u05D7, \u05E2, \u05D4 at the end of a word is sounded before
    the letter, and not behind. Thus, \u05E0\u05B9\u05D7\u05B7 (Noah) is pronounced
    /no-ax/. This only occurs at the ends of words and only with patach and \u05D7,
    \u05E2, and \u05D4\u05BC (that is, \u05D4 with a dot (mappiq) in it). This is
    sometimes called a patach g'nuvah, or \"stolen\" patach (more formally, \"furtive
    patach\"), since the sound \"steals\" an imaginary epenthetic consonant to make
    the extra syllable."
  created: '2010-11-02 05:06:27'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: yes, it is more correct to call it a patach gnuva, but most are quite sloppy
    and call it patach ganuv. It's like the word for afternoon day care in Israel.
    Everyone calls it tzaharon although technically it should of course be pronounced
    tzohoron (or tzahoron if you are Sepharadi).
  created: '2010-11-02 05:46:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In Volt, the sequence and processing of GSUB look-ups is crucial, as it's
    as they say, 'first come, first served'.\r\n\r\nHence, I understand with comments,
    the order of the GSUB look-ups should be:\r\n\r\nDagesh chazak and dagesh kal,\r\n\r\nthen,\r\n\r\nKamatz
    katan and kamatz gadol,\r\n\r\nthen,\r\n\r\nShvah-na and shvah-nach.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNow,
    the patach was said to have two more forms, too. Please explain, and if possible
    show examples.\r\n\r\nDavid, you said that there are two forms of dagesh:\r\n\r\nDagesh
    havahin and mapik.\r\n\r\n\r\nSimilarly, I have heard that there are many forms
    of meteg:\r\n\r\nMeteg and siluk.\r\n\r\nMetek hamafsik? sof-pasuk? and others?\r\n\r\nPlease
    elaborate.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 15:22:02'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "GoHebrew, From this last post (And others) It seems that you don't know the
    basic terms.\r\nbut yet, you consistly claim that it can be done in volt.\r\n\r\nI
    allready suggested before \"jump into the cold water and solve dificulties as
    you go along.\"\r\nOR, First getdown your fundamentals. then you will understand
    your by your self the broblems you are going to encounter farther on in the project.\r\n\r\nI
    would Check first Dageshim Then sheva's the qamats qatan.\r\nBut qamats qatan
    and shevas work together so you hav to check these both together back and forth.\r\n\r\nIn
    volt it's not a matter of just one lookup do all.\r\nyou do a check after check
    where every check norrows down posibilities\r\nSo you are checking Sheva and qamats
    again and again.\r\nbecause each New lookup can effect somewhere else somthing
    you hav allready checked before.\r\n\r\n\r\nPatach as one form only (Patach Genuva
    is distinguished at the position Like Holam Haser) you don't need an alternate
    glyph for Patach.\r\n\r\nAlso Mapik is a normal dagesh kal, and you don't need
    an alternate glyph.\r\nMapik is a He + Dagesh Now we all now that Alef,He,Het,Resh
    Don't get a  dagesh so any dagesh on this letters are Mapik.\r\n\r\nIf you want
    to go creazy about all these stuff then according to some you also have SHEVA
    MERACHEF.\r\n\r\nMeteg does not need an alternate glyph because two metegs don't
    come on one word.\r\n\r\nSo if i Let say a qamatz (gadol) and Meteg, I won't insert
    another meteg for mileil or Milera.\r\n\r\n++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++\r\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-02 16:40:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> Meteg does not need an alternate glyph because two metegs don't come on
    one word.\r\n\r\nI disagree. Why?\r\n\r\nThe appearance of a meteg and a silug
    is different (the silug is longer than the meteg), although Unicode encodes them
    with the same code value. \r\n\r\nThey represent different functions, and look
    different. Hence, they deserve to have their own Unicode code value."
  created: '2010-11-02 17:22:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "You know GoHebrew, you are hilarious.\r\n\r\nYOU DISAGREE?????????\r\n\r\nShow
    me one case anywhere, where you have 2 Metegs on one word...."
  created: '2010-11-02 19:33:49'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "You can have cases that you hav A sof-Pasuk With a meteg.\r\nOr a mafsik,
    and a meteg Like In Shmuel B Chapter B\\12, \u05DE\u05DE\u05D7\u05E0\u05D9\u05DD,
    so under the first you hav a mafsiq and the second is a meteg.\r\n\r\nbut 2 metegs
    on one word????"
  created: '2010-11-02 19:51:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  You know GoHebrew, you are hilarious.\r\n\r\nYOU DISAGREE?????????\r\n\r\nShow
    me one case anywhere, where you have 2 Metegs on one word....\r\n\r\n====\r\n\r\nI
    didn't say that.\r\n\r\nI disagree with your reason and justification that there
    only is one Unicode value for meteg, and none for a silug etc."
  created: '2010-11-02 20:32:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "We need 2 or more Unicode slots for a meteg, a silug etc etc.\r\n\r\nNot
    because since two metegs never overlap...\r\n\r\n2 kamatz never overlap, two vovs
    etc., yet the UTC understoond that we need a slot for a regular kamatz, and another
    one for kamatz katan, and the same for the vov etc."
  created: '2010-11-02 20:36:55'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "A unicode of qamats qatan and holam haser is there because there is a standard
    of how to differentiate between them.\r\n\r\nbut there is no standart of how to
    differentiate between Sheva Na and Nach Or Meteg and Siluk ect'\r\n\r\nThey are
    not going to assign a unicode value just because there is a grammer differentiation.\r\n\r\nbut
    you can certainly have a font make this differentiation if someone types a double
    meteg."
  created: '2010-11-02 22:00:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  but there is no standart of how to differentiate between Sheva Na and
    Nach Or Meteg and Siluk ect'\r\n\r\nPlease define standard.\r\n\r\nI believe the
    UTC never responded to an additional meteg proposal, and heard over the past three
    years there will be a shvah-na proposal. They are not opposed, as these are valid
    requests.\r\n\r\nThe short-coming is that certain Hebrew enthusiasts are timid
    or defeatists, as the Torah compares them to grasshoppers. (weak-willed)"
  created: '2010-11-02 23:12:31'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Standard means somthing that every one does the same.\r\na qamats qatan in
    most productions i saw, is a lowerd qamats.\r\n\r\nindication of sheva na, i saw\r\nA
    Magen David, A Rafe, An asterisk, above the letters.\r\na squered or larger dots."
  created: '2010-11-03 00:40:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "there are two things\r\nkamatz gadol and kamatz katan\r\n\r\nthese are firm
    ideas defined in hebrew grammar by the radak\r\n\r\nhis definition is interpreted
    in 3 ways:\r\nminchat shai\r\nr. zalman henna\r\nr. eliyahu bachur\r\n\r\nraphael
    claims there are others:\r\nchaim pupek\r\nfregmere\r\nfurgessen\r\n\r\nthe first
    three have graphic symbols associated with\r\nm.s. has shai l'moreh's asterisk
    with a circle around it\r\nrz\"h has kehot's asterisk\r\nre\"b has artscroll's
    rafe\r\n\r\nraphael said someone has a magen david\r\ni think the israeli navy\r\n\r\nthe
    baba sali had bolded dots\r\n\r\nthey are two different matters:\r\nthe hebrew
    grammar of a shvah-nah, and\r\nthe various graphic symbols\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 01:35:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> raphael said someone has a magen david\r\n> i think the israeli navy\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good one :)"
  created: '2010-11-03 02:30:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "\u05EA \u05D5 \u05D3 \u05D4"
  created: '2010-11-03 02:42:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n> David, \r\n> Are you serious?\r\n\r\nRe: Dagesh Mavhin\r\n\r\n\r\nWell,
    we coined the term \u05D3\u05D2\u05E9 \u05DC\u05EA\u05E4\u05D0\u05E8\u05EA \u05D4\u05E7\u05E8\u05D9\u05D0\u05D4
    from something, no? not the air :) \r\n\r\nEven, the Babylonian Masorah/Tradition
    has a dagesh mavhin which aim was to draw attention to some words that might be
    misunderstood ,or sometimes to indicate negative meaning, or just to indicate
    a different meaning.\r\n\r\nThis dagesh was very common  with the name Elohim
    \u05D0\u05DC\u05D4\u05D9\u05DD. That said, when the verse was about just any\_
    Elohim then the letter alef was with dagesh &\_ the letter lamed with raphe;\_
    any other Elohim -- the alef was with raphe & the lamed with dagesh; but when
    both the alef and lamed were\_ with raphe then we're talking about G-D. In other
    words, there was a distinction between hol and kodesh.\r\n\r\nMoreover, this will
    explain Targum Onkelos:\_ The Decalogue, Exodus 20:\_ elohim aherim \u05D0\u05DC\u05D4\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD is \u05D0\u05DC\u05D4\u05D0 \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05DF
    , whereas Leviticus 8: 19\_ elohim aherim is \u05D8\u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA \u05E2\u05DE\u05DE\u05D9\u05D0,
    or \u05D3\u05D7\u05DC\u05DF. Again, there is a distinction between hol and kodesh
    when writing Elohim\r\n\r\nBut the question is why do we need to encode it? what
    is the right/correct pronunciation? do we know it?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 03:40:14'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Interesting.\r\n\r\nAs always, what you write is an interesting lesson.\r\n\r\nSummary,
    you are saying that the term 'Dagesh Mavhin' is actually a shem hamushal \u05E9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05DE\u05D5\u05E9\u05D0\u05DC 'a borrowed term' for a function unlike an
    actual dagesh (kal or chazak).\r\n\r\nThe hol/kodesh matter is an application
    of this borrowed term.\r\n\r\nA borrowed term is not a shem haetzem \u05E9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05E2\u05E6\u05DD its actual meaning.\r\n\r\nCan't we encode simply to
    teach or warn, for we do not intent the encoding to be actual?"
  created: '2010-11-03 03:53:54'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'very important: I didn''t say that the Tiberian Tradition is Identical to
    the Babylonian Tradition!'
  created: '2010-11-03 04:07:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhat?\r\n\r\nWhat are you referring to by saying this: \"I
    didn't say that the Tiberian Tradition is Identical to the Babylonian Tradition!\""
  created: '2010-11-03 04:20:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Summary, you are saying that the term 'Dagesh Mavhin' is...\r\n\r\n used
    to distinguish or divide. In-between (kal & hazak). "
  created: '2010-11-04 03:24:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI think you are saying that it's much more than a shem hamush-al
    \u05E9\u05DD \u05D4\u05DE\u05D5\u05E9\u05D0\u05DC?"
  created: '2010-11-04 03:52:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As for which pronunciation is \"right\", I thought it was well known that
    in the \"right\" pronunciation, 'Aleph is a glottal stop like 'hamza or the picture
    of a vulture, and `Ayin is a... oh, dear, I forgot... ah, a [[http://www.friesian.com/egypt.htm|\"voiced
    pharyngeal fricative\"]]... like `ayn or the picture of a forearm.\r\n\r\nOne
    just tries, as best one can, to reconstruct how the Hebrew language was pronounced
    three to five thousand years ago based on the archeological evidence.\r\n\r\nThis
    thread helped me update my [[http://www.quadibloc.com/other/hebint.htm|page]]
    that I've just started to help me quite understand what is being discussed here
    - I had been using the terms I found in the really old Hebrew grammars in the
    public domain on Google books, and so from this thread, I was able to Google up
    some web pages with which to associate the proper Hebrew terms with the half-Hebrew/half-Latin
    terms I had been using."
  created: '2010-11-28 21:30:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "One possibility, which would throw tradition to the winds, I fear, would
    be to leave dagesh kal and mappiq alone, but to indicate dagesh hazak in an entirely
    new way: by two (perhaps short and heavy) horizontal lines placed where rafe would
    go.\r\n\r\nThis would allow dagesh hazak and dagesh kal to be both present at
    the same time, so that either form of the consonant could be doubled.\r\n\r\nIn
    dealing with qamatz katan, however, tradition suggests the way to resolve the
    ambiguity.\r\n\r\nSometimes, matres lectionis are not available to distinguish
    between the two kinds of hireq, or between qibbutz and shurek. In those cases,
    one could put a tiny yod or waw above and to the right of the character. Thus,
    a tiny aleph in the same position would be the way to indicate qamats katan.\r\n\r\nGiven
    that apparently the highly-regarded Koren siddur actually uses a new symbol to
    indicate qamats katan, apparently modifying the Tiberian system to reduce ambiguity
    isn't horrifying everyone."
  created: '2010-11-29 14:01:51'
- author:
    name: d p
  body: "Hi,\r\nQuestion for you guys: do you realize that you're talking about things
    of which you can't even agree how to spell? Looking at the thread it seems like
    each person has a completely different ways to spell each niqquudh. Is there a
    Hebrew dictionary that I can reference that gives the Hebrew name for each of
    these marks in Hebrew?\r\n\r\nFrom my experience with Hebrew, it seems like the
    language is in a complete state of disarray...almost schizophrenic. It seems like
    there are dozens of ways to transliterate the simplest words, the niqquudh sometimes
    don't seem to make sense (which you have addressed to some extent above), I've
    seen about half a dozen suggestions for how each vowel point should be pronounced,
    and I have found multiple ways to spell both the letters and the niqquudh...in
    HEBREW and in English.\r\n\r\nI would appreciate some help or direction...a source,
    dictionary, or something that is a reliable source.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2010-12-09 18:40:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Qamatz Katan, however one chooses to transliterate it in English, is \u05E7\u05B8\u05DE\u05B7\u05E5
    \u05E7\u05B8\u05D8\u05B8\u05DF in Hebrew.\r\n\r\nThere are old Hebrew grammars
    in the public domain on Google Books, but they will use old names for the symbols
    in English. The Hebrew names, even with points, can be found in the Wikipedia
    article on the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niqqud|Niqqud]] and the Wikipedia
    article on [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cantillation|Cantillation]].\r\n\r\nI
    know some people turn their noses up at Wikipedia, but I find it to be a very
    good source for many subjects. Since Hebrew isn't written with the Roman alphabet,
    there are different transliteration schemes, just as there are for Chinese."
  created: '2010-12-09 19:19:06'
- author:
    name: d p
  body: Thanks for reply...but I notice that you transliterate the qohpph (qof) as
    both a q and a k...why? That is both confusing and inconsistant.
  created: '2010-12-09 19:32:14'
- author:
    name: d p
  body: "I have created a transliteration scheme that allows one-to-one translit from
    Hebrew to English and back again, using a regular 101 keyboard. No goofy symbols
    that no one knows, and it facilitates accurate pronunciation. Using my translit
    method, you can take any Hebrew word written in English and turn it back into
    pointed Hebrew with nearly 100% accuracy. Anyone can do it, even someone unfamiliar
    with Hebrew.\r\n\r\nI use Wikipedia all the time, but it is also very inconsistent."
  created: '2010-12-09 19:38:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I heard a funny joke about the spelling in English of the current Jewish
    holiday:\r\n\r\n\u05D7\u05E0\u05D5\u05DB\u05D4 can be spelled:\r\n\r\n1.  Chanukah\r\n2.
    \ Hanuka\r\n3.  Channukah\r\n4.  Hannuka\r\n5.  Chanuka\r\n6.  Hanukah\r\n7.  Channuka\r\n8.
    \ Hannukah\r\n\r\nAre there more?\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-09 20:40:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Wikipedia is made up of seemingly well-researched articles. Consistent naming
    conventions is not the goal. Accuracy is intended, based upon seemingly valid
    sources. I have found many errors in Wikipedia, although for the most part it
    is accurate, and a valuable source of easy-to-access knowledge.\r\n\r\nThe spelling
    of nikud and pronunciation varies among traditions, and time periods. The Jewish
    people embraced different traditions, which spelled some nikud differently, and
    pronounced then differently as well.\r\n\r\nTransliteration has always been handled
    diversely, as one person's more perfect convention is considered illogical for
    another person.\r\n\r\nIn my view, transliteration is a very superficial factor
    is understand nikud and its dynamics regarding Hebrew grammar."
  created: '2010-12-09 20:56:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">From my experience with Hebrew, it seems like the language is in a complete
    state of disarray...almost schizophrenic. It seems like there are dozens of ways
    to transliterate the simplest words ...\r\n\r\nDavid, the problems of Romanization
    are problems of languages written with latin letters, not problems of Hebrew language,
    contrary to what you say. Hebrew is normally written in Hebrew script, with no
    reference to latin letters and hence no disarray or schizophrenia. As John wrote,
    the transliteration of other non-latin scripts have similar histories and problems.
    \r\n\r\nThe story of efforts to romanize Hebrew is told in the Wikipedia article
    on [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romanization_of_Hebrew|Romanization of Hebrew.]]\r\n\r\nYou
    don't need to re-invent the wheel, as there are several complete systems, as explained
    in the Wikipedia article. If you want consistent transliteration rules you can
    pick of the systems in the Wikipedia article. If you use your own, nobody will
    understand you.    \r\n\r\nThere are complicated reasons relating to tradition
    and ease of pronunciation for English speakers why many people (including me)
    don't consistently follow just one of these systems. I can explain these if you
    like, but in any case you are free to use one of the completely systematic and
    consistent methods, if that is helpful for your purpose. "
  created: '2010-12-10 00:41:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nThe way I understand is that each Hebrew word contains sets of
    subsequent nikud pairs which render the second one either kal or chazak, depending
    upon whether the first one is a kamatz or a patach, for example.\r\n\r\nIs this
    correct?\r\n\r\nIf so, all the nikud must be redefined into two glyph groups,
    one glyph group for kal nikud, and another glyph group for chazak nikud.\r\n\r\nDoes
    this kind of tenuah definition CAUSE a subsequent dagesh in the second letter
    to become a dagesh kal or chazak?"
  created: '2010-12-16 13:08:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nCan any letter that can have a nikud become dagesh chazak or
    dagesh kal, or is this applicable only to certain letters?"
  created: '2010-12-16 13:15:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nYou said on different occasions that much more can be derived
    (regarding the shvah-na) from the taam.\r\n\r\nPlease expand upon this.\r\n\r\nMy
    Volt project (based upon technology used by SBL-Hebrew) deciphers both Biblical
    Hebrew text with or without taamimn, or Hebrew vocalized text with or without
    meteg. \r\n\r\nI want to not only add shvah-nah and kamatz katan to such text,
    but also what to add meteg as well, to either non-taam text, or to text with taam.\r\n\r\nYou
    said that meteg can not be accurately entered. Why?"
  created: '2010-12-16 20:22:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nTo summarize:\r\n\r\nA tenuah chazakah causes the following to
    be a dagesh chazak, if that letter has a degesh,\r\n\r\nBut if the previous nikud
    is a tenuah katanah, then the following letter is dagesh kal, if that letter has
    a degesh.\r\n\r\n1.  How does this relate to a shvah-nah or kamatz katan?\r\n2.
    \ Where is this grammatical rule written?"
  created: '2010-12-19 11:59:43'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: ">>A tenuah chazakah causes the following to be a dagesh chazak, if that letter
    has a degesh,\r\n\r\nBut if the previous nikud is a tenuah katanah, then the following
    letter is dagesh kal, if that letter has a degesh.\r\n\r\n-------\r\n\r\nI never
    said that a dagesh kal or chazak have anything to do with tenua gedola or ketana.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-20 07:32:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "OK, back to step one.\r\n\r\n\u05D1\u05E8\u05D5\u05DB\u05D9\u05DD \u05D4\u05D1\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD"
  created: '2010-12-20 08:22:45'
date: '2010-10-20 13:32:50'
node_type: forum
title: indication of sheva na/nach qamats rahav/qatan

---
