---
author:
  name: charles ellertson
body: "Perhaps this quandary has no real answer, but discussion's still helpful.\r\n\r\nA
  publisher recently asked me about a character they needed, an \"a\" with a macron
  above, and a tilde above that. Their inclination was to start with an amacron (U+0101)
  and add a combining tilde (name: uni01010303). My inclination was that since we
  are dealing with a character for which there is no Unicode index, it should be expressed
  completely decomposed -- that is (name: uni006103040303).\r\n\r\nWhy does it matter?
  Well, prosaically, since we use FontLab, ccmp is the only OT feature available to
  form such characters. Listing all possible combinations in the ccmp feature is exceeding
  time consuming, since one should also include all the characters in Latin A, B,
  and additional. Why? Once you start providing for character strings in canonically
  correct Unicode, you're sort of obligated to finish. And we have had manuscripts
  come in where authors expressed, say, aacute with an *a* and a *acutecomb* diacritical.
  What's wrong with that?\r\n\r\nOrder is just as bad. Within a plane, Unicode requires
  inside out. But Unicode doesn't specify the order of the planes. Following a suggestion
  of 3.0, I prefer bottom to top. Once again, with ccmp, order counts. If you provide
  for any order, the number of lines grows uncomfortably large.\r\n\r\nI haven't used
  it, but I suspect mark and mkmk have at least some of these issues.\r\n\r\nMoving
  beyond OT fonts, how do people search for such characters in a text file? Is a reader
  just suppose to search for all possible combinations?\r\n\r\nHas anyone else grappled
  with this?"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Not to disrespect you in any way, but aren't you overthinking this problem
    a bit? If the publisher wants a single exception character, why not simply create
    it in a seldom-used slot--such as florin or currency--and use FontLab's Get Component
    function to build it? And, no disrespect intended to authors either, but since
    when do they dictate how accented characters are to be built; it seems to me that
    such decisions should lie with typographical professionals.
  created: '2010-10-22 21:18:57'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: I've no experience with Latin accents, but stacked vowel marks are common
    in Arabic and the order is always bottom to top (some fonts try to account for
    reversed order being the same but IMO this is wrong, and if one for some odd reason
    wants marks stacked backwards should be able to do that). In my fonts I usually
    build stacked marks using 'mkmk' feature so I don't have to foresee every possible
    combination.
  created: '2010-10-22 21:23:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "@Nick: \r\n\r\nIf the only task of a font is to put ink on paper, you might
    have a point -- except for that nonsense about leaving things to the \"typographic
    professionals.\" But I prejudge. If by typographic professionals you mean the
    people who use type, I'll have more sympathy. Not what you meant, right?\r\n\r\nText
    in the 21st century is not only about ink on paper. A \"repurposed\" text can't
    even assume a common font these days. \r\n\r\nAs to authors, yeah, right. \"I'm
    sorry Mr. (Stephen) King, we can't accept your latest manuscript, since your way
    of entering characters doesn't agree with our typographic professionals. You'd
    better find another publisher. Please return the $500,000 advance.\"\r\n\r\n@Kaled:\r\n\r\nAs
    I read section 2.11 (Unicode 5.0), esp. fig 2.21 the order is inside out, not
    top down.\r\n\r\nSee also 3.11, Canonical Ordering Behavior, particularly P2.
    Since they say [guideline], I suppose it is not a *requirement*. But sure as there
    are little green apples, somebody having to search a text for a word is going
    to appreciate a consistent ordering -- for Latin-based texts anyway."
  created: '2010-10-22 21:47:38'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>A \"repurposed\" text can't even assume a common font these days. </em>\r\n\r\nThen
    your publisher is on a fool's errand, unless all possible fonts contain the features
    you propose..."
  created: '2010-10-22 22:12:10'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>As I read section 2.11 (Unicode 5.0), esp. fig 2.21 the order is inside
    out, not top down.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight, I was only thinking of stacked marks above
    the base, so inside out should be more generalised."
  created: '2010-10-22 23:13:50'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>Then your publisher is on a fool's errand, unless all possible fonts
    contain the features you propose...</cite>\r\n\r\nEven if they don't have a proper
    font the text still caries the intended semantics, but no one can ever tell than
    a \u20A3 in the middle of a word was supposed to be \"a with macron above and
    tilde\"."
  created: '2010-10-22 23:18:43'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>.. since when do they dictate how accented characters are to be built;
    it seems to me that such decisions should lie with typographical professionals.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the authors dictate <em>how</em> the characters ought to be built.
    I'm in the same branch as Charles is (linguistics), and it's certainly not uncommon
    to have some text discussing a language containing multiple stacked accents --
    his a macron tilde sure sounds familiar. The authors don't really <em>care</em>
    how the characters are built; typically, they use Word, which (it seems) allows
    stacking, or they use a mark/mkmk enabled font, or ... they use some self-made
    font! (And typically, they'd use Nick's hack of replacing any random character
    with theirs; even <em>more</em> typically, they forget to send that adjusted font
    together with their text...)\r\n\r\nCharles, I've had bad experiences with mark/mkmk,
    so I settled for this: I created a non-spacing macro/tilde and put it in the PUA.
    It being non-spacing means it'll almost never center nicely on every character,
    but a well-targeted manual kern takes care of that. For a few frequently occurring
    combo's I made 'special' versions -- i.e., the e, o, and a are nearly the same
    width in my base font, so I made one specially for these and have ccmp code replace
    the 'generic' macron/tilde with this one.\r\n\r\nI can't recall, off the top of
    my hat, if I set the proper Unicode for macron/tilde -- if there is one, I might
    have. If there isn't one, however, I should really have done the simple concatenation
    of the UC names. So far, I see no need to actually create glyphs from a_macron_tilde
    up to z_macron_tilde (and schwa_macron_tilde and opena_macron_tilde and more specialized
    phonetic characters than almost any type designer would care)."
  created: '2010-10-22 23:39:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Right, I was only thinking of stacked marks above the base, so inside
    out should be more generalised.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt may just be I'm misundersanding
    you, but Unicode organized combining marks into 3 planes, one above, one below,
    and one through the middle. Within each plane, you work inside out. Which plane
    is specified first is not a Unicode requirement, though it apparently is with
    some applications. Since \"those that care\" tend to specify plane 1 (bottom)
    first, I go with them.\r\n\r\nHave I misunderstood what you're saying?\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nNick, A lot of text editors -- I believe MS Word is one -- will render
    a character with combining diacriticals properly as long as the font has the components:
    the base character and the combining diacriticals. The positioning may lack a
    certain nicety, but it will be quite clear. I believe MS Word -- some text editors
    anyway -- will even go and get the needed characters from a system font if the
    specified font lacks them. Let's suppose that some people are reading primarily
    for content.\r\n\r\nTheunis -- With whatever small clout I may have, I try to
    steer customers away from fonts that forbid modification. So with permissible
    fonts, as each new character comes along, I add it to the font, properly named,
    and no Unicode index. The ccmp feature will sub the character just fine, so I
    just add it to the ccmp list.\r\n\r\nI suppose if there were only one or two instances
    of a character, we could do it in InDesign, but another rule is no private use
    characters unless the have a meaning for a special group. I have to assume everything
    we set will wind up as an ebook, or at least an XML file."
  created: '2010-10-22 23:57:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Nick, A lot of text editors -- I believe MS Word is one -- will render
    a character with combining diacriticals properly as long as the font has the components:
    the base character and the combining diacriticals. The positioning may lack a
    certain nicety, but it will be quite clear.</em>\r\n\r\nSo...what's the problem?"
  created: '2010-10-23 00:02:43'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: Again I didn't think about which group come first, I was only thinking about
    individual marks in each group (looks like I didn't understand your original question).
    I did not think about this before, but naturally I'd do <base><marks above><marks
    below>, but marks in the middle is a bit trickier, the first or the last both
    are as logical IMO.
  created: '2010-10-23 00:06:17'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: 'Guys, I''m not particularly interested in defending *why* I want to do this.
    Given that the character should be well-presented in the typesetting (printing)
    font, and correct Unicode in the text file, has anyone opinions on the original
    questions? '
  created: '2010-10-23 00:48:43'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles, considering (1) the need to properly kern and position these multi-diacritical
    glyphs; (2) the possibility of different text inputs; and (3) the need to avoid
    unnecessary diacritical combinations, the solution I did adopt for my own font:
    \r\n\r\n<strong>1</strong>. I did search for all accented letter used in the range
    of languages I focused.\r\n<strong>2</strong>. I added all these glyphs as precomposed
    ones, even the non-coded.\r\n<strong>3</strong>. I did not used mark and mkmk
    features.\r\n<strong>4</strong>. I'm slowly adding all these glyphs to ccmp feature
    using bottom to top order (to diacritics above), top to bottom (to diacritics
    below), first top and then below (to diacritics in both positions).\r\n\r\nI guess
    one must include in ccmp feature the different ways to name a glyph \u2013at least,
    the named (amacroncombtildecomb) and the Unicode method (uni006103040303). This
    task would make me crazy, but it seems to be needed.\r\n\r\nA good resource about
    these non-coded accented glyphs is Adobe Latin 5 table. [[http://typophile.com/node/74756|Here]]
    you find more info about this."
  created: '2010-10-23 01:59:43'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Igor (if I may),\r\n\r\nPerhaps I can save you some time. The *named version*
    is not needed. Two possibilities: (1) you are importing text. In that case, the
    characters will be in Unicode. (2) Direct entry. Again, whatever you type on the
    keyboard, the characters in the file will be in Unicode. I suppose if you're using
    an old Type 1 font and non-OT layout program that wouldn't be true, but 99-44/100
    of them wont support the needed accents anyway.\r\n\r\nWhere *names* come in is
    with FontLab. For good or ill, FL substitution routines are written using character
    names. So, for example, the acute combining diacritical is U+0301. But in the
    Adobe Glyph list, is is named *acutecomb*. Unless you rename the character uni0301,
    \"acutecomb,\" and only that, is what must be in your ccmp feature. There are
    about 5 or so combining diacriticals that have a name (other than uniXXXX) in
    the AGL.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm whining about is the lack of a standard for, what, correctly
    specifying characters without a codepoint and with multiple accents. Since an
    author has choices, unless you can limit those choices by saying \"This is the
    right way,\" you have some obligation to provide for all those choices. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, if it is fine for author A to use a combining diacritical with an already
    accented character, and author B for using the base character plus two combining
    diacriticals, you have to provide for both. If it's not fine, you then have at
    last some excuse to tell the author to fix it, and more importantly, over time,
    authors will learn (not in my lifetime, of course).\r\n\r\nWorse, for characters
    with accents above and below, which plane comes first is also a choice. That increases
    the number of ccmp substitution lines quite a bit.\r\n\r\nNone of this is too
    bad if you're limiting yourself to European languages. But for people like Theunis
    in linguistics, or me who has to work with linguistics plus the Native American
    languages, Asian languages, etc., the number of lines in the ccmp feature goes
    up dramatically.\r\n\r\nWhat I was hoping for was that someone like John Hudson
    or Adam or Karsten etc. would post, indicating either any emerging conventions,
    or a correct procedure, if there actually is one.\r\n\r\nI do think you can insist
    on the inside-out ordering, as that is in Unicode."
  created: '2010-10-24 14:15:39'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Thanks Charles! You surely saved a lot of time.\r\n\r\nLet me add two questions:\r\n\r\n<strong>1</strong>.
    if you set ccmp substitutions in crescent order, the issue with author A/B wouldn't
    be avoided? I mean, if you already have the substitution a+macron=amacron in the
    code, a later amacron+tilde=amacrontilde in the same feature will not acts also
    as a+macron+tilde=amacrontilde? As long as I understand, the decrescent order
    in OT features is used exactly to avoid this kind of substitution, but in this
    case it's desired. If this is possible, it may save many lines of code.\r\n\r\n<strong>2</strong>.
    there are the combining diacritics and also the spacing modifier ones (the five
    or so named accents you did mention). I believe the proper way to handle ccmp
    is always use combining diacritics, ignoring the spacing modifier ones. But for
    some keyboard layouts the input may use the spacing modifiers, so I`ll need both
    substitutions (a+acute and a+acutecomb). Is this true?\r\n\r\nNow I see that to
    build a font with support for all languages using Latin script is a kind of self
    trap. But now I'm engaged with this. Hope the [[http://typophile.com/node/67787|font]]
    would be useful for professionals who work with linguistics."
  created: '2010-10-24 16:15:58'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>For example, if it is fine for author A to use a combining diacritical
    with an already accented character, and author B for using the base character
    plus two combining diacriticals, you have to provide for both. If it's not fine,
    you then have at last some excuse to tell the author to fix it, and more importantly,
    over time, authors will learn (not in my lifetime, of course).</cite>\r\n\r\nSome
    fonts, like Gentium, have 'ccmp' feature to decompose accented characters then
    all mark positioning is done by 'mark' and 'mkmk' feature, so in addition to not
    worrying about all possible combinations, a sequence like amacron+tilde is equal
    to a+macron+tilde since the former will be decomposed to the later anyway."
  created: '2010-10-24 16:31:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Khaled -- thanks for that. Best I remember, older SIL fonts (Charis, maybe
    older versions of Gentium) used ccmp to combine all characters with base + accent
    to precomposed characters in Latin A, B, and Additional. I forget how they handled
    characters without a codepoint. In an ideal world, all fonts would first deconstruct
    characters, then remap them.\r\n\r\nThis gets into expected workflows. One of
    the things so many font designers seem not to know are the workflows of people
    who use type. This even occurs with EULA's -- I've had several interesting discussions
    with people at Adobe, who seem unaware of typical production workflows in publishing.
    But that's a different issue.\r\n\r\nConsider: a manuscript is submitted by an
    author. It then goes to an editor. Next stop is the designer, and on to the typesetter.
    The result is \"first proof.\" There will be a second proof, usually a third,
    sometimes more. The result is printed. At this point, the only file that is correct,
    that has been maintained through all the changes, is the final typeset file. Moreover,
    the printed book is no longer the end product of all this work. If there is an
    end product, it is that final (typesetting) file. Further uses will be made of
    that file, perhaps an ebook (perhaps even several forms of ebooks). Perhaps an
    html file intended to be read in a browser, perhaps a searchable xhtml file for
    research, etc. etc.\r\n\r\nCouple of points: In modern times, it is rare for the
    designer to even be aware of all the characters used in the text. Rarer still
    for s/he to check and see if the fonts selected have those characters. At some
    point, the compositor has to put everything together, resolving the decisions
    the editor made, and the decisions the designer made.\r\n\r\nPoint two is that
    the typesetters decisions now become an issue for whoever is putting together
    the xhtml file for an ebook or archive/research purposes.\r\n\r\nThat basically
    is the workflow. The opportunity to introduce error with characters -- either
    the wrong one, or the character dropping out, is uncomfortably high. While no
    single standard exists, the more we can standardize, the more we can both lessen
    the incidence of error and make life simpler for the people who have to resolve
    what remains.\r\n\r\nFor font designers to assume they can resolve such things
    is at best naive.\r\n\r\nI like the notion that all composites are first broken
    into their components. But since not all fonts work that way, editors can't assume
    that. In fact, the vast majority of fonts don't even have the combining diacriticals.
    At the time the editor does his/her work, they don't know what font will be used
    -- not for the printed book, not for the ebooks, not for the browsers.\r\n\r\nAs
    a jack-of-all trades (compositor), I don't know the Unicode standard as well as
    I should. I was hoping there was something in it, if not a requirement, at least
    a recommendation, that would address the original questions, and could become
    a basis for standardizing both editorial and OT feature practices.\r\n\r\n* *
    *\r\n\r\n@Igor -- I don't imagine you or anyone else is still reading this post
    -- I seem to have been caught into defending what it's about again -- but if so:\r\n\r\nThe
    spacing modifiers have a different meaning. They should not be used to form accented
    characters. You cannot assume an author isn't using the acute, say, as a spacing
    letter, as does happen in linguistics. It is the old glyph/character distinction.
    \r\n\r\nI'd add that there are other traps here. For example, the raised comma
    may be the same glyph as the apostrophe, but it *is* a different character. A
    raised comma is one way to signal a glottal stop in some languages. If you use
    an apostrophe, then someone else who later uses the files and wants to change
    the way glottal stops are signaled has one hell of a job. If, on the other hand,
    you use the raised comma in the spacing modifiers, their task is far simpler.\r\n\r\nPractically,
    that there are so few fonts that cover spacing modifiers is an issue. Syntactically
    correct meaning is sacrificed to get some black stuff on the white stuff. The
    result is, just now, that even if you include it in your font, no editor will
    encode the text file that way. In time, maybe things will change."
  created: '2010-10-24 18:52:48'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"In an ideal world, all fonts would first deconstruct characters, then remap
    them.\"\r\n\r\nIn an ideal world, normalization/decomposition would be done by
    OS or application, not by fonts. It is matter of Unicode (character level, text)
    rather than OpenType (glyph level, font). The line between them is pretty thin
    though."
  created: '2010-10-24 20:26:10'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Charles, thanks for the detailed and useful post (yes, I'm reading it).\r\n\r\nBut
    there is a point I do not understand: in most fonts, there aren't combining diacritics.
    So just spacing modifiers are available to input (for example: e+circumflex instead
    of e+circumflexcomb). Don't you have to hand these possible text inputs?\r\n\r\nProbably
    I'm missing some aspect about OT processing here."
  created: '2010-10-25 10:55:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Karsten -- Thank you. Of course, you're right. In our shop, we normalize
    the characters in a text as a part of preparing it for composition. I was thinking
    of publishers who are setting type in house (sadly, all to common now). They often
    lack knowledge of what, the \"technical internals\" for a text, esp. preparing
    it to accommodate all the uses a text is put to these days.\r\n\r\nThey will just
    have to learn, and come up with yet another house style for their press. Life
    is easier when there aren't a bunch of conflicting house styles -- but there you
    are.\r\n\r\nIgor: <cite>But there is a point I do not understand: in most fonts,
    there aren't combining diacritics.</cite>\r\n\r\nTrue. I's like the old joke \r\n\r\nPatient:
    \"Doctor, I broke my arm in two places.\"\r\nDoctor: \"So, stay out of those kind
    of places.\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-25 21:17:54'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: I have not read it fully, but I think that [[http://scripts.sil.org/IWS-Chapter04b|Understanding
    Unicode]] page might give some directions.
  created: '2010-11-02 18:03:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm sure it will. My question, I'm afraid, concern sections that begin\r\n\r\n<cite>[Yet
    to be written. . . .</cite> "
  created: '2010-11-02 20:03:28'
date: '2010-10-22 20:44:05'
title: building characters with multiple accents

---
