---
author:
  name: '1985'
  picture: 112115
body: "It's time I return to some basic experiments after (truth be known) struggling
  with less governed attempts at designing glyphs. Therefore I am trying to get to
  grips with a simple sans face in which the majority of contours are formed by expanding
  paths with minimal optical adjustment i.e. slight variation in stroke width/height.
  No doubt this is the kind of typeface you have seen many times, happily or otherwise.\r\n<!--break-->\r\nProblem:\r\n\r\nI'd
  like to I extend some of this crude logic to the typically tapered joints. Clearly
  this is not achievable with expanded paths as it produces <em>aligned extrema</em>
  where they ought to be <em>sheared</em> (provisionally laid out in blue). What functions
  are there to aid construction of contours for a branched joint? I use the term construction
  because I readily admit to being humbled by my attempts to draw freely! For this
  thread at least may the eye inform the position of any central path (free, adjusted
  optically) but let the computer produce the contours (constructed accordingly).\r\n\r\nHere
  is a very basic /u/ to introduce my problem, the central path is in red. What informs
  the provisional blue contours in a generic grotesque /u/?\r\n\r\nI added a fictional
  gauge ball to help imagine what might govern the blue contours in a physical manifestation.
  Despite the red path being divorced from a physical implement, such as a pen, assigning
  an imaginary form allows me to imagine how the contours might form. This imaginary
  'tool' would be required to vary in height (to accommodate adjusted thickness) and
  shear on it's path (to accommodate the taper) simultaneously and smoothly. Which
  functions might I use to translate this fictional sentiment to the digital design?
  If these functions are not available in FontLab should I be looking to scripting
  solutions and parametrics? Please, feel free to correct my imagination.\r\n\r\nI
  hope that you can guide me to some solid resources and that this thread develops
  in earnest.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance.\r\n\r\nAndrew[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_diagram_3604.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Don't know if this will help, but here's how some sans fonts construct their
    u's.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FranklinGothicRL_4257.png]\r\nFranklin
    Gothic - the Raph Levien version. I think this more closely matches the original
    version of Franklin than other versions.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DinEngshrift_4562.png]\r\nDin
    Engshrift\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FrankinGothic-Demi_5583.png]\r\nITC
    Franklin Gothic Demi\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GillSans_6315.png]\r\nGill
    Sans\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HelveticaNeue_4728.png]\r\nHelvetica
    Neue\r\n\r\nSome of these have extra points between the extremas - I don't think
    this was usually a conscious design decision. Probably those points were added
    in conversion.\r\n\r\nLooking at your example and these - the leftmost set of
    points might want to be slanted too."
  created: '2010-10-25 17:17:12'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Thanks for responding Brian. Studying various grotesque alphabets confirms
    the conventions but doesn't give much away about how the contours are formed -
    I suspect that in all of your examples they are determined by eye and iteration.\r\n\r\nA
    broad nib pen moving along a central path informs the contours of calligraphic
    lettering. A traditional grotesque font is an abstract interpretation of this
    image - these fonts were conceived as outlines from the outset. However, the computer
    allows us to, where appropriate, reinstate a direct relationship between contours
    that is longed for when working with outlines only - the crudest expression of
    this is an /o/ constructed with two parallel paths but naturally this particular
    function can't cope with more complicated situations.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong,
    I am not searching for a holy grail solution to stroke fonts, just different functions
    to aid consistency between various components. I hope that somebody can point
    me in the right direction.\r\n\r\nI didn't want to focus too much on the /u/ as
    this kind of joint is common to the /n/m/r/b/d/p/q/g/a/. It is because of this
    recurrence that I am keen to find functions capable of generating contours from
    a central or single path in each incidence."
  created: '2010-10-25 21:24:15'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"\u2026but doesn't give much away about how the contours are formed\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    makes you assume they are / should be formed by extrapolating from an inner single
    line?\r\n\r\n<cite>\"the computer allows us to, where appropriate, reinstate a
    direct relationship between contours that is longed for when working with outlines
    only\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI would debate that such a \xABdirect relationship\xBB between
    the contours is necessarily \xABappropriate\xBB, or desired, or even \xABlonged
    for\xBB, in a sans. (If you make an extremely pen-informed font that may be different.)\r\nI
    would rather see the necessary optical corrections, like the thinning you show,
    as reasons to <em>deviate</em> from any sort of \xABmonoline\xBB ideal. For one
    thing, if this is the way you'd like to construct a font, how do you intend to
    account for the necessary different thicknesses of vertical and horizontal strokes?\r\nIt
    seems to me like you're clinging to a logical model that you don't need to need."
  created: '2010-10-26 00:04:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I suspect that in all of your examples they are determined by eye and iteration.\r\n\r\nI
    think that's probably the case in all the best typefaces. You can certainly expand
    paths using a non-uniform brush (Illustrator I believe has quite powerful functions
    to this effect) but you'd have to tell it which paths to expand and contract in
    the 'right' places and at what rate (for example the SE curve of u needs to thin
    much more than the SE corner of an o, and different again for a d)...so you'd
    end up iterating anyway."
  created: '2010-10-26 00:39:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "NIna thanks for your response though I think there is some confusion that
    I best correct. I was worried I'd be mistaken.\r\n\r\nOf course I want to produce
    an optically adjusted font. It is precisely because <strong>I don't want to produce
    a monoline font</strong> that I started this thread. I thought I'd managed to
    make that clear initially! Please assume that I have a reasonable grasp of the
    necessary optical adjustments and I am making inquiries into something beyond
    this, about how to manage these adjustments.\r\n\r\n<em>How do you intend to account
    for the necessary different thicknesses of vertical and horizontal strokes?</em>\r\n\r\nEven
    the basic expand/parallel paths function can accommodate this adjustment as there
    are input values for height and width!\r\n\r\nBack to my original questions:\r\nWhat
    informs the position of the sheared BCPs on the tapered strokes?\r\nHow can I
    translate this sentiment using functions applied to a path?\r\n\r\nI hope I've
    managed to clarify my questions. It's much harder to make myself clear in a forum
    than if I were sat opposite you with a pen and paper sketching out my concerns!
    \r\n\r\n<em>I would debate that such a \xABdirect relationship\xBB between the
    contours is necessarily \xABappropriate\xBB, or desired, or even \xABlonged for\xBB,
    in a sans.</em>\r\n\r\nIf possible I'd like to avoid debating here, we can start
    another thread for that! Right now I'm asking for technical advice, and I don't
    want debate to obscure that. Please trust that I already have some sensibilities!\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2010-10-26 01:27:58'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>You can certainly expand paths using a non-uniform brush (Illustrator
    I believe has quite powerful functions to this effect) but you'd have to tell
    it which paths to expand and contract in the 'right' places and at what rate (for
    example the SE curve of u needs to thin much more than the SE corner of an o,
    and different again for a d)...so you'd end up iterating anyway.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is the kind of intelligent function I'm getting at, thanks Ben. I know I will
    be tidying up in the end, that's not a problem. I know that I can't apply one
    function to all parts of a central skeleton path but I could certainly apply different
    functions to separate sections of this path and join them myself. Powerful functions
    are what I am interested in, even if it is necessary to apply them to very specific
    areas individually. Maybe working on this level is akin to drawing in speed, but
    for me the advantage is that I'd only have to edit the central path directly and
    keep varying the function until it felt right, this suits my way of working!\r\n\r\nAre
    there similar but more powerful functions than expand/parallel paths in FontLab
    buried in the macros somewhere? I'll have a look at Illustrator in the meantime."
  created: '2010-10-26 01:55:40'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Something on similar lines to this: Replica from [[http://www.lineto.com/|Lineto]].\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2224_6487.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't have thinned joins in the same way, but is is constructed. Optical compensation
    with thinner horizontals is made by using and oval that is squished."
  created: '2010-10-26 03:46:00'
- author:
    name: sgh
    picture: 111405
  body: "Andrew, thanks for starting this discussion!  I am also very interested in
    these issues.\r\n\r\nOn a related note, I think the joining of the straight part
    of the u to the curve is also a tricky thing.  As shown in the images posted by
    brianskywalker, sometimes the points are horizontally aligned, sometimes the inside
    is higher, sometimes the outside is higher.  I think the appropriate choice is
    highly dependent on the \"shear\" of the bottom that you mentioned.\r\n\r\nA short
    discussion of these issues appears in a thread I started a while ago: [[http://typophile.com/node/64835|Aligning
    points on outline of straight to curved stroke]]."
  created: '2010-10-26 04:36:05'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Brian, I'm really glad that you uploaded that image of Replica as that is
    exactly what got me thinking about a hypothetical variable gauge ball. The Replica
    ball accounts for adjusted stroke width and height as it travels from vertical
    to horizontal. I then tried to imagine what kind of movement and transformation
    the ball would have to make to negotiate the tapered joint of a lowercase letter,
    in the case of my example a /u/, and I concluded it would have to shear to achieve
    this. Also I imagined that the ball would get slightly wider to produce optically
    adjusted width in the curved stem of a character such as /R/. Looking at the above
    image I think NORM chose to standardize this but there is no reason not to add
    more 'standards' to achieve a more adjusted font. For example, maybe for a /B/
    the ball gets a fraction wider again for the lower right hand extrema.\r\n\r\nSo
    I'm talking about a hypothetical, flexible gauge. Maybe I have to tell it how
    to respond to different scenarios, for different components of letters, based
    on our well established optical adjustments, but it will nevertheless inform the
    inside and outside contours by following one path and producing contours either
    side based on parameters. If this hypothetical 'clever gauge' was a function in
    software, which function is it?"
  created: '2010-10-26 09:02:55'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Hi Stephen, glad you found this interesting, I just linked this thread to
    yours. Hopefully we can evolve some solutions.\r\n\r\nI also dared to mention
    a pen - this seems to induce some skepticism from Nina in both threads ;-) \r\n\r\nThe
    reason I mentioned a pen was because I enjoy the fact that the inside and outside
    contours are related. I want to achieve a more complicated relationship between
    these contours than produced by a fixed width traveling at a fixed angle.\r\n\r\nThat
    is not to say that I want to make a calligraphic font. I want to make a sans serif
    font on a computer - that is why in my mind's eye I replace the pen with this
    ball. This imagined 'ball' is more flexible than the pen in the hand, it does
    not need to be kept at the same angle like a pen does and it can change in width
    much more than a nib splayed by pressure - on a computer it is not bound by physicality!
    Again, I don't want to get into the philosophical rights and wrongs of this -
    there are plenty of fonts on either side of that debate - I'm looking to make
    something that reconciles the two, a midpoint - and I need to find the tools to
    do it. Often on Typophile the 'why' stands before the 'how' but I'd like to reverse
    that order here. It's often easier to ask why than to explain how!\r\n\r\nI think
    I need to add some more illustrations.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-26 09:21:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "First:\r\n\r\nOne central path - three different areas might that might require
    different parameters - as Ben says earlier <em>tell it which paths to expand and
    contract in the 'right' places and at what rate</em>. This illustration establishes
    that I want to make several optical adjustments, but I want to control them from
    a midpoint. This could be three separate functions that produce segments that
    I have to connect manually - I'd be happy with a fairly spartan method of application.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_components_6473.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 09:36:44'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Second:\r\n\r\nThe basic function of a gauge dealing with adjusted height
    and width as in the Replica illustration above.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/first_basic_function_3791.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 09:47:55'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Third:\r\n\r\nAnd /o/ showing a two different balls to the second image (the
    size of these balls could always be determined by eye - it's optical - left and
    right widths are slightly wider than stem width in image two - the conventional
    adjustment). Obviously this one can be constructed without gauges by making parallel
    paths.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/o_compare_3913.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 10:00:41'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Fourth:\r\n\r\nThe point at which it becomes more confusing, applying these
    ideas to the structure /u/ from the first image. Imagine the yellow ellipse moving
    along the red path to become the green ellipse, creating the green contours as
    it moves. The angle of the shear is something I have decided without any method,
    this is the first issue I'd like to address.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_first_component_6457.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 10:09:21'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Appendix to fourth:\r\n\r\nTrying to establish the value of the horizontal
    curve thickness and the subsequent shear from a pen like brush. The relationship
    between the contours is too direct for a grotesque font - the capability of the
    brush is not complex enough. This is where the pen allusion ceases to be relevant
    and some kind of variable gauge more appropriate.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u_calig_4451.jpg]"
  created: '2010-10-26 10:39:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "You should sign up for a type design course. This stuff gets covered in the
    first class.\r\n\r\nYou may be working with digital tools, but you still have
    to draw."
  created: '2010-10-26 12:54:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "James I'd relish the opportunity to undertake such a class. Honestly, I'm
    currently tied down by lymphoma (ENTER VIOLINS*), so Typophile is one of my few
    links to education of any sorts, or even the outside world! I'm really conscious
    that there is a wealth of information out there that would allow me to progress
    - Typophile don't disappoint me in my hour of need. I have the time, point me
    in the right direction.\r\n\r\n<em>You may be working with digital tools, but
    you still have to draw.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't worry, I hear you! I still think there
    is something of value in what I am trying to achieve, at least to my practice
    anyway. As I mentioned at the start of the thread, I have been drawing for a little
    while (don't look for evidence of that in these rushed illustrations) but I still
    have a curiosity about more powerful functions to help me along the way.\r\n\r\n*Black
    humor, I remain in good spirits."
  created: '2010-10-26 13:16:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "As for other attempts to educate myself I am reading <em>Typeface as Program</em>
    by ECAL and <em>The Stroke.</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://vimeo.com/10521941\">Gerrit
    Noordzij on Vimeo</a>\r\n\r\nWatching this video forced me to reconsider how I
    had been drawing - that I want something to inform the outlines, even in a sans.
    I'm not promoting this philosophy, it's just where I find myself at present."
  created: '2010-10-26 13:35:04'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "I think this is possible in Illustrator, I don't know about doing it in an
    font tools. I don't think this will work in Fontforge, to make paths like that,
    although I think you could do a basic stroked path with oval settings like in
    the Replica example.\r\n\r\nYou can also easily recreate something like the Replica
    example, in Illustrator, with a \"scatter brush\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/test1_6048.png]\r\n\r\nI
    have an older copy of Illustrator (CS2), but I think I can make a thinned stroke
    like in your example with art brushes (like others have stated). Of  course you'll
    have to use separate paths."
  created: '2010-10-26 15:43:08'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Here, this is my test with an artbrush:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/artbrush_3935.png]\r\n\r\nIt
    works, though I'm not sure how you'd do a sheared join of two paths like this.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso,
    this is a bit off topic but:\r\n\r\n> Black humor\r\n\r\nWhat's that?"
  created: '2010-10-26 16:07:46'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Thanks Brian. I'm not trying to reproduce the artwork for Replica. That image
    is important to this thread because it reveals parallel paths - the circles are
    just illustrative. <strong>The circles allow us to see what is going on between
    the contours.</strong> They illustrate, rather than plot the contours. I want
    to plot the contours. The moving ellipse is just a way of us humans engaging with
    two abstract lines by aiding our imagination in how they might relate.\r\n\r\n<strong>A
    hypothetical ellipse that transforms smoothly along a single path would always
    plot smooth and corresponding contours from its extrema.</strong> Maybe this is
    not the optical ideal, but it's what I am endeavoring to produce nonetheless!\r\n\r\nBut
    this is working backwards. I am not trying to invent a function based on the a
    moving ellipse - I imagine a function capable of tackling my problem already exists
    - a function where more parameters than height and width can be stipulated when
    expanding paths. The function does not have to be intelligent enough to know which
    set of parameters to apply to different parts of the curve, I can expand them
    separately and specify the parameters such that the ends of each segment correspond.\r\n\r\nI
    fear I am struggling to convey my ideas."
  created: '2010-10-26 17:00:51'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "That artbrush is quite interesting, thanks Brian. For the moment let's not
    get hung up on beauty. Now I wonder what would be possible with more powerful
    functions!\r\n\r\n(The off topic bit - Black humor - read that same post (26.Oct.2010
    5.16am) again and all will be revealed.)"
  created: '2010-10-26 17:08:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I wish you well. \r\n\r\nIn your exploration of what purely digital tools
    can do, I suggest you either, review the work of, or contact, two people who I
    think are the ultimate masters of Adobe Illustrator as it relates to drawing letterforms.\r\n\r\n[[http://gerardhuerta.com/|Gerard
    Huerta]]\r\n\r\n[[http://pelavin.com/|Daniel Pelavin]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-10-26 19:28:36'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Thanks, I get what you mean.\r\n\r\nOn that note though, those gauges were
    only ever meant for just that - gauges. Knowing how to do them in Illustrator
    means you can use them as intended.\r\n\r\nI think with art brushes you could
    easily replicate your examples, and then reuse those art brushes on other glyphs.
    I'd like to show you how, but I don't have time. You might be able to figure it
    out yourself, perhaps? If you need explaing of the custom brush tools, just look
    up tutorials and they should explain.\r\n\r\nAlso just remembered that there is
    a plugin for illustrator that does thinning and expanding of strokes - without
    converting them to outlines. Can't remember what it's called though. Using art
    brushes would still do the job, though, but that plugin might better work for
    what you want."
  created: '2010-10-26 19:29:32'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "James\r\n\r\n<em>I wish you well.</em>\r\n\r\nMany thanks, I'll be enrolling
    in some classes as soon as I can. In the mean time I'll be sure to check out your
    links.\r\n\r\nBrian, thanks for the time you have invested in this thread. I'm
    going to spend some time looking at all the possibilities of brushes and plugins
    in illustrator, which without your recommendation I might have discounted too
    easily. If you remember the name of that particular plugin add it to the thread
    in the future.\r\n\r\nThanks to all who have replied thus far."
  created: '2010-10-26 19:55:10'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "Variable stroke width is a new feature in Illustrator CS5, along with the
    ability to save and reuse \"width profiles.\" It's comparable to using art brushes,
    but more versatile.\r\n\r\nhttp://tv.adobe.com/watch/learn-illustrator-cs5/using-variablewidth-profiles"
  created: '2010-10-27 08:55:30'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Oh man, I've only got CS2...\r\n\r\nPlease keep us posted on your progress
    with this!"
  created: '2010-10-28 03:43:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "CS5 Huh, I too only have CS2.\r\n\r\nI'll keep you posted, though it may
    be some time before I make any progress."
  created: '2010-10-28 10:26:33'
- author:
    name: Christoph Knoth
  body: "I recently did some experiments with the variable stroke feature. And I think
    it is more or less useless because you can not really define mono-thick lines
    which come after a line that gained weight. Plus you have to edit more points
    to get the same result as you would have to with the outline approach in fontlab.\r\nAnd
    if you finally have an Illustrator result that you like and want to make it bolder
    it will just give you bad results.\r\n\r\n@1985: \r\nMaybe you should also have
    a look into <a href=\"http://www.kalliculator.com/about/index.html\">kalliculator</a>
    from <a href=\"http://typemytype.com/\">Frederik Berlaen</a>. Especially his <a
    href=\"http://www.kalliculator.com/about/researchpaper.pdf\">researchpaper</a>.
    But even though it is computed correct it does not mean it looks correct."
  created: '2010-11-02 12:29:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Thanks Christoph, I sent you a message via your blog!
  created: '2010-11-03 13:13:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Enough with the deluded expanded-skeleton business, people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-25 15:42:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'As Hrant says, Noordzij''s model of the stroke only takes you so far. It
    seems to me that while Romain du Roi, Metafont or expansion/translation/rotation
    models do produce sort-of usable results, true Design comes in when you move away
    from these limiting geometric, modular or algorithmic approaches, and start to
    draw things optically, with new ideas, critically. I think type design is way
    too interdependent and complex to reduce that way: the human eyes have to be the
    final arbiter in all decisions, no?'
  created: '2011-11-27 01:14:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hail brother.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-27 01:24:02'
date: '2010-10-25 10:28:39'
title: Logical tapered joints on expanded paths, generic sans

---
