---
author:
  name: Mat Lucas
  picture: 117906
body: "Fellow T\u2019philes,\r\n\r\nIn my quest for the answer to this question I
  have come across countless rants and fanboy\u2019isms behind the <cite> \u201Cbest\u201D
  </cite> typeface, but what are your opinions or solid gold facts about the worst
  readable faces? I\u2019m thinking <cite> mainly </cite> in print for copy, not so
  much titling.\r\n\r\n<strong>What are the worst offenders?</strong>\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nMat.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "IIRC it was Degas who said \"Give me a palette of various hues of mud, and
    I will paint you a rainbow\".\r\nIn other words, a good typographer can make any
    typeface read well.\r\n\r\nHowever, just as some musical instruments are harder
    to master than others, some types are more intractable."
  created: '2010-11-02 19:14:09'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: " \r\n[[http://pantagruel.typepad.com/devnull/raGun_ferryLong.jpg|Zapf Dingbats]]"
  created: '2010-11-02 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: Mat Lucas
    picture: 117906
  body: "That is a great quote! I'm a believer in \u201Cthere is no bad type, only
    bad usage of type.\u201D From purely a legibility view point though, e.g. counters
    too large or a large x-height.\r\nAre there any type faces that are notorious
    for their poor legibly?\r\n\r\nHa i'm getting a feeling of that Carson spread
    for Brian Ferry, thanks Claus.\r\n\r\n<cite>This will probably end ironically,
    being a student I have more than likely used ones that might be mentioned more
    than once!</cite>\r\n\r\nMat.       \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Edit: Beat me to it Claus!</cite>"
  created: '2010-11-02 19:35:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"I'm not bad, I was just drawn that way\" -- Jessica Rabbit\r\n\r\nDidones
    were born with a bad reputation, following the famous Ben Franklin incident (which
    involved Baskerville, a transitional).\r\nThey are indeed hard for the type designer,
    typographer and printer to get right.\r\nThat's one reason I did a Scotch Modern
    revival, to try and do a version that would make 21st century text in the style
    look more like the better examples from the mid 19th century."
  created: '2010-11-02 19:54:19'
- author:
    name: Mat Lucas
    picture: 117906
  body: "Nick, I can definitely see the problems with the legibility with the Didones
    , thanks for the heads up.\r\n\r\nWith your <cite>\u201CScotch Modern\u201D</cite>
    how much did legibility come into question when designing it?\r\nI feel it has
    more legibility than Didot, for example, if only from a screen preview of it.\r\n\r\nMat."
  created: '2010-11-02 20:12:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: My Scotch Modern is designed to create a facsimile of typesetting in a particular
    1869 book, which I thought was highly legible/readable, so I didn't concern myself
    with legibility per se. However, I did add some kerning, which is expected these
    days, and necessary, given the sophistication of h&j software.
  created: '2010-11-02 20:22:18'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: 'Perhaps there are no bad typefaces, only insufficiently skilled typographers,
    but I''ve never been glad to see Melior. '
  created: '2010-11-02 21:22:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Perhaps there are no bad typefaces, only insufficiently skilled typographers</em>\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I return to my tool analogy: that works best which is suited to its purpose. Many
    a typeface which shines in print may suck on the screen, and vice versa. The <strong>
    worst offenders</strong> are those errant knaves who know not the difference..."
  created: '2010-11-02 21:55:04'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "I just finished reading a book set in [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/utopia/
    | Utopia]] (with tight leading!), and I can assure you that it was a rather dystopian
    experience (which was a shame since it was a rather good book, content wise)\r\n\r\nI
    would rather drink Cyanide and wash my eyes with Nitric-Acid, than read another
    book set in that inelegant monstrosity.\r\n\r\n10/10 for Legibility\r\n0/10 for
    Readability"
  created: '2010-11-02 23:26:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Did you ever read <em>The Globe and Mail</em> when it was set in Utopia (2001-2007)?
  created: '2010-11-02 23:37:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Perhaps there are no bad typefaces, only insufficiently skilled typographers,
    but I've never been glad to see Melior.</cite>\r\n\r\nP. J. Conkwright used a
    fair bit of Melior . . . "
  created: '2010-11-02 23:48:14'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "- Did you ever read The Globe and Mail when it was set in Utopia (2001-2007)?\r\n\r\nNick,
    if your point is that there are no bad fonts, just misused ones, then I get it
    (and for the most part, agree). I have no doubt that Utopia has its uses, long
    lines of extended text just aren't one of them. The thing is that since it's makers
    have, on more than one occasion, championed its book setting qualities, I have
    no qualms about denouncing it as a \"bad\" font.\r\n\r\nAs for reading the <em>Globe
    and Mail</em>, I only started reading it in May 2007, so I guess you \"deprived\"
    me of my Utopian pleasures."
  created: '2010-11-03 00:24:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I do think that a lot of fonts are unsuited for extended text at small size,
    which is what I think you mean by \"copy.\" And the market agrees, as there is
    a much smaller range of fonts used for books and magazines for extended text compared
    to the fonts used for display and short copy. \r\n\r\nHow often have you seen
    extended text in Curlz? I would nominate this as unsuitable for extended text.
    I would challenge anybody, including Nick Shinn, to set a book page successfully
    in Curlz, with the text block in extended text, small size, many lines.    "
  created: '2010-11-03 01:32:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What do you mean, \"text block in extended text, small size, many lines\"
    ?\r\nThe stipulation is \"copy\" (as opposed to titling), there is no mention
    of handcuffing the typographer to a tombstone."
  created: '2010-11-03 02:16:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Most magazines, and almost all books have such text. I am just wanting to
    see Curlz work in a situation that the majority of text is set in. No handcuffs,
    just a realistic demand. Show us.  '
  created: '2010-11-03 02:31:56'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "In truth, I believe that there are probably no more than fifty typefaces
    that are truly suitable for setting books <em>and</em> magazines. Add in a range
    of diacritics, and suitability to modern printing technologies, and that list
    gets whittled down to around half that number (William, I believe that your Caslon
    would definitely be on this shortlist).\r\n\r\nIt never ceases to amaze me how
    few fonts there are that are easy to read (in book settings), possess an elegant
    and inviting form (which in my eyes means not too bland and not too fancy), have
    the correct proportions, are endowed with good metrics, include all the necessary
    feature sets, <em>and</em> look good when printed offset (or even laser). Yet,
    even though this list is rather small, some book designers still manage to screw
    things up!"
  created: '2010-11-03 03:22:08'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "On reflection, I have to reject the premise that there are no bad typefaces.
    And by \"bad\" I don't mean just goofy or ugly or badly drawn. I mean typefaces
    that are fully considered and skillfully rendered but that just don't do their
    job well.\r\n\r\nTo say that there are no bad typefaces is to imply that type
    designers cannot fail: no matter how badly they screw up, a page designer can
    still redeem the work. But type designers, like all designers, are fallible.\r\n\r\nBut
    I also don't believe that one can paint a rainbow with mud."
  created: '2010-11-03 03:38:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Most magazines, and almost all books have such text. I am just wanting
    to see Curlz work in a situation that the majority of text is set in.</em>\r\n\r\nBill,
    you have an id\xE9e fixe as to the nature of \"text type\".\r\nI will admit that
    most text is set in the codex slab, on account of books being so long, but most
    pages of most documents containing text type are not like that.\r\n\r\n<em>To
    say that there are no bad typefaces is to imply that type designers cannot fail</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    setting the bar rather high. What about the majority of typefaces which are average
    or mediocre?\r\n\r\n<em>It never ceases to amaze me ... in my eyes...</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    yes, wouldn't most discriminating typophiles have a taste that narrows the field
    to their personal favorites? \r\nBut wouldn't there be some variance of preference
    amongst them? \r\nI don't doubt that there would be a top few dominating, but
    according to Zipf's Law, the top fifty of a group of typophiles would have many
    hundreds of faces.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 04:14:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">id\xE9e fixe \r\n\r\nInstead of irrelevant efforts at mind-reading, why
    don't you show us a typical book column of say 11/14, or magazine column, say
    9/11, set in Curlz, and make it as successful as typical widely used text types
    such as Minion and Sabon, set next to it?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 04:27:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I'm playing by the rules of this thread: Mat said, \"I\u2019m thinking
    mainly in print for copy, not so much titling.\"\r\n\r\nWhy do you assume that
    \"copy\" means a solid page of text, rather than, say, a paragraph in a deck or
    advertisement?\r\n\r\nRemember a recent thread where we discussed Paul Rand?\r\nThat
    was where you stated that the 8 pt. type of his business card was display.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not reading your mind, but going by the evidence of your posts to Typophile, where
    when the subject of \"readability\" crops up, you always assume it refers to extended
    tracts of book or magazine text, e.g:\r\n\r\n<em>... why don't you show us a typical
    book column of say 11/14, or magazine column, say 9/11, set in Curlz, and make
    it as successful as typical widely used text types such as Minion and Sabon, set
    next to it?</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, I have to ask, is that the only spec there is that
    can assess the readability of text type?\r\nRemember Paul Rand's book set in Univers
    75?\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that a typographer can turn any type into a workhorse
    text face, all I said was that a good typographer can make any face read well.
    Part of that is setting it with sensitivity to context and content, not just dumping
    it into a generic spec.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 06:02:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "The printed word:\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/foundry/goodies/index.html"
  created: '2010-11-03 11:03:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I conceded in that thread that there is ambiguity about the meaning
    of \"text\" as it usually involves both small size and extended text, but you
    can have one without the other. And I maintained, I think correctly, that may
    fonts, including Univers, are not optimal in extended text at small size. And
    I would add that some, including Curlz, are just horrible.  \r\n\r\nMat here contrasted
    \"print for copy\" and \"titling.\" \"Copy\" usually means extended text, but
    Mat can clarify that for us. \r\n\r\nIn your initial post, in response to a question
    about \"copy\" you wrote: \"a good typographer can make any typeface read well.\"
    Given the context of \"copy\", that meant \"read well in copy\". Now you back
    off and say just that a typographer can find some conceivable situation in which
    it can read well. But that was never at issue, because the question wasn't whether
    a few letters or words can be made readable, but whether there are faces that
    are bad for \"copy\", extended text. \r\n\r\nChanging the meaning of the question
    to win an argument is known as the \"fallacy of equivocation\". In fact, by saying
    \"I'm not suggesting that a typographer can turn any type into a workhorse text
    face,\" I think you have conceded that Curlz is not good for \"copy\"\u2014thus
    agreeing with my point while not admitting it. "
  created: '2010-11-03 13:43:35'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "<em>Well yes, wouldn't most discriminating typophiles have a taste that narrows
    the field to their personal favorites?</em>\r\n\r\nNick, you are missing my point,
    I was referring to something that specifically transcends the notion of \"personal
    favourites\". The whole point is that typographers personal favourites notwithstanding,
    there are ultimately only a small number of fonts that are <em>objectively</em>
    best suited for book setting, and possess the myriad of qualities and features
    that make reading any book set in them, a smooth and pleasurable experience. \r\nIf
    a typographer tries to force a certain typeface on a book, for any reasons other
    than readability (e.g. \"This font is so cool\", or \"This high-contrast font
    comes from the same historical period as the plot of the book, so I should use
    it as a display of typographic savviness\"), the end result would most likely
    be taxing on the reader.\r\n\r\n<em>...according to Zipf's Law, the top fifty
    of a group of typophiles would have many hundreds of faces.</em>\r\n\r\nI do not
    think that Zipf's law can or should be applied to this particular context.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I tried setting a book page in Curlz (11/14) and, as predicted, it was a nauseating
    experience..."
  created: '2010-11-03 13:52:29'
- author:
    name: Mat Lucas
    picture: 117906
  body: "<cite>\u201CMat here contrasted \"print for copy\" and \"titling.\" \"Copy\"
    usually means extended text, but Mat can clarify that for us.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nBill,
    yeah sorry about the ambiguity it was not intended, I was thinking of typefaces
    that would be poor for say <cite>extended copy</cite> use in a book or even ones
    that would struggle in the context of a magazine as a piece of body. \r\n\r\nSorry
    for the late reply loads on at the moment, great dialogue to read through this
    morning over coffee though! \r\nI have to agree <cite>(not that my opinion should
    be validated as something even remotely informed)</cite> that a copy in <cite>\u201CCurlz\u201D</cite>
    is a little disheartening at best. Also though I have never seen this set for
    copy in the wild, maybe titles for amateur dance groups etc. on a nice pink low
    gsm stock.\r\n\r\nIt is repulsive, and I\u2019m sure not designed for this purpose
    (or many others) but it does re-enforce the idea of \u201Cno bad typefaces, only
    bad usage\u201D as anyone who would set this for copy would be insane, other than
    for the amusement of this thread!\r\n\r\nThanks Riccardo, I have never seen those
    faces before. \r\n\r\nThanks also for Nick recalling a book set in <cite>\"Univers\"</cite>
    \ it's something I will look into.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 14:49:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-11-03 15:24:50'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: I just finished a book of about 120 pages set in [wait for it] Lubalin Graph.
    Painful experience. The only thing that kept me going was that it was required
    reading for a class.
  created: '2010-11-03 15:40:39'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Riccardo, you beat me to that one. :^)
  created: '2010-11-03 16:00:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>Changing the meaning of the question to win an argument is known
    as the \"fallacy of equivocation\". </em>\r\n\r\nMat said \"in print for copy,
    not so much titling.\"\r\nI didn't change the question, I interpreted it quite
    literally, with \"copy\" meaning any text that is not titling.\r\nIn typography,
    there are many genres of text, such as decks, sidebars, captions, pull-quotes,
    &c., not just book text.\r\nNarrowing one's interpretation of the question to
    suit one's prejudices is known as \"Reductionism\", if not \"Straw Man\".\r\n\r\n<em>...the
    question wasn't whether a few letters or words can be made readable, but whether
    there are faces that are bad for \"copy\", extended text.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was
    your assumption, which proved to be correct. Of course I suspected that was what
    he meant, but decided to take the literal side of his ambiguity, because I'm fed
    up with Readability Reductionism, and the way that its adherents diss the readability
    of any face that won't set a book, also dissing the typographer's contribution
    to readability. \r\n\r\n\r\n@Adam: <em>I was referring to something that specifically
    transcends the notion of \"personal favourites\". </em>\r\n\r\nNo you weren't.
    You said \"...in my eyes\"! There is no object measure of readability for text
    faces.\r\n\r\n<em>I do not think that Zipf's law can or should be applied to this
    particular context.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy not? It is very good at cultural listism.\r\nIf
    you polled typographers on the \"top ten book faces\" you would get a Zipf curve,
    with Caslon and Bembo at the top and many types, such as Electra and Dolly, appearing
    once or twice. \r\nAnd if you went to a library, Times would be way ahead. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 18:03:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Anytime someone tries to establish an absolute for things that are somewhat
    fuzzy in nature, they are asking for an argument.  There are numerous reasons
    book publishers choose a typeface for book text.  One of them simply being \"workflow\".
    They have used a face or faces so many times that page-out is very predictable.
    Therefore they see no reason to switch since they don't get a dime more profit
    for their trouble. Yes, Curlz is a lousy book face but their may be occasions
    when an author is more interested in establishing a character than having what
    they say be easier for scientists to agree upon for readability of content. This
    kind of thing is more likely in the case of advertising than setting a typical
    pulp-fiction novel. If someone wanted to set a scenario where the speaking character
    was a shallow, ditzy teenage girl and had little of value to say, Curlz might
    fit the bill perfectly. \r\nWe all know the tenuous history of readability studies
    and how much disagreement there is about cause and effect--correlation is not
    always causal. I guess I just don't see much value in beating that horse yet again.
    No real usable information comes out of the argument.  This thing always surfaces
    out of \"best \"worst\" \"most\" \"least\" \"never\" \"always\" kinds of lists.
    \ e. e. cummings only used lowercase and Massimo loves Helvetica and Bodoni.  Yup,
    so graphic designers, editors, publishers, advertising people, and scrapbookers
    will continue to pick typefaces either well or badly as they always have and any
    pronouncement of an absolute will continue to be either ignored or argued about
    without changing a thing."
  created: '2010-11-03 18:41:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I'm fed up with Readability Reductionism, and the way that its adherents
    diss the readability of any face that won't set a book, also dissing the typographer's
    contribution to readability. \r\n\r\nOk, I think your argument was bad, but I
    see you do have a valid point you were trying to make. Even if a font is not ideally
    suited as a book face, it can have better readability than many competitors for
    its purpose. For example it could be a \"text\" sans that works better as a contrasting
    type for short-measure call out boxes in a magazine or news paper. Or it could
    be a companion italic. These don't have to be ideal for extended text, but still
    it is an achievement to make them *relatively* readable for their function. Fair
    enough. \r\n\r\nHowever, I was never arguing against that being true.  "
  created: '2010-11-03 20:49:58'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: I once read an entire book--- about 136 pages, if I remember correctly, set
    in tightly kerned and leaded Clarendon. My eyes are still recovering from that
    a year later.
  created: '2010-11-03 22:14:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...it can have better readability than many competitors for its purpose.
    </em>\r\n\r\nRight. Readability is document-specific. And for non-book text typography,
    \"book\" types can have poor readability, because the reader may take one look
    at a text block and, not being in the mood for serious endeavor, decide against
    immersion without reading a word. That too is a readability experience."
  created: '2010-11-03 22:33:44'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "Nick, by invoking Zipf's Law you are in fact proving my point (albeit in
    a roundabout way). If the distribution of book-faces preferred by typographers
    follows a Zipf curve, and you end up with typefaces such as Bembo, Caslon, and
    Garamond occupying the top of the curve, then perhaps there is some uniquely inherent
    quality (or set of qualities) to these particular typefaces that makes them universally
    appealing in the context of book reading. \r\n\r\nIf you ask these typographers
    to name their top 20 typefaces for books, you will probably end up with three
    to five top choices with a myriad of other choices occupying a widening shallow
    distribution. You seems to look at this as an indication of the variability of
    preference, and this variability would in turn appear to support the notion that
    such choices are ultimately highly subjective. Yet, the information could be interpreted
    the other way round\u2014that there are only a small number of typefaces that
    possess a universally agreed upon quality. This in effect was the essence of my
    core argument.\r\n\r\nIt stands to reason (and statistics), that if we have some
    <em>superb</em> all-round book faces, and others that are just ok, then there
    <em>must</em> be some (Curlz is obviously an extreme example) that are bloody
    awful. The question that started this thread was simple: Can we name some of the
    font that are least suited to these types of settings. \r\n\r\nOne last thing
    though; the claim that certain typefaces (e.g. Curlz) could, under certain extremely
    rare circumstances, be called for in book text, and therefore could not be considered
    to be <em>inherently</em> bad for such setting (the strong version of the \"it
    all depends on the context\" argument), is just a cop out. After all such an argument
    could be extended to all types of symbolic forms including dingbats."
  created: '2010-11-04 00:52:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Mat Lucas: Is this for personal, professional or academic purposes?\r\n\r\nBy
    \u201Csolid gold facts\u201D do you mean scientific studies and empirical data?
    That\u2019s a tricky question. There have been many scientific studies comparing
    fonts to determine their influence on human performance but none spring to mind
    where someone was trying to find the worst. If I were to answer the question of
    \u201Cworst offenders\u201D I would start by reading as many studies as I could
    find comparing fonts, look at all the losers and try to find common qualities.
    From there I would design an experiment, which would inevitably lead to a series
    of experiments.\r\n\r\nIf you already haven't you may wish to read this thread:
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/75551\">BBC News - Making things hard to read
    'can boost learning'</a>"
  created: '2010-11-04 16:48:54'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "So what did we learn so far? Lubalin Graph sucks as a book face and Utopia
    is just as much of a \u2018worst readable (\u2026) worst offender\u2019 as Curlz,
    at least when used \u2018mainly in print for copy, not so much titling\u2019.\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2010-11-04 22:31:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "We did?\r\nUtopia is a much respected text face for newspapers.\r\nOh sorry,
    that doesn't count, \"copy\" mean book text.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAdam, the Zipf curve
    describes the herd instinct: some things become very popular, quite apart from
    any quality of merit, because that's the way culture is.\r\n\r\nFor typefaces,
    that means some faces will become the go-to faces preferred by typographers.\r\nHow
    much does this have to do with the inherent readability of types for the end user,
    who has no say in the matter?\r\nNot a lot."
  created: '2010-11-05 02:48:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Utopia can look fine in newspapers. The example discussed must have really
    had a bad typographer to mess it up. The best text face can easily be destroyed
    by misusing it. The look is always the face + the design. They both need to be
    good. If only one is, you''ve got big trouble. '
  created: '2010-11-05 02:55:15'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > The best text face can easily be destroyed by misusing it.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    by using Adobe\u2019s Optical Metrics. I\u2019ve seen plenty a decent face thrashed
    by the this setting. This has become disturbingly common in magazines. And I\u2019ve
    seen it in a few books now, too."
  created: '2010-11-05 11:14:43'
- author:
    name: hello seb
    picture: 120846
  body: all i can say is that i'm no fan of [[http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/detail.htm?pid=201344
    | Hobo Std]]
  created: '2010-11-05 11:30:30'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\nActually I don\u2019t share Adam Shubinsky\u2019s cordial
    antipathy towards Utopia, to me it\u2019s a great typeface even for longer texts.\r\n\r\nI
    was trying to express my disagreeance with the (IMHO) rather pointless nature
    of 1.) the quest for the \u2018worst offender\u2019 without really restricting
    the parameters and 2.) the practice of throwing everything in the same \u2018worst
    readable\u2019 pot, Utopia together with Curlz, Hobo and what else."
  created: '2010-11-05 20:55:28'
- author:
    name: Adam Shubinsky
    picture: 117628
  body: "- <em>Adam, the Zipf curve describes the herd instinct: some things become
    very popular, quite apart from any quality of merit, because that's the way culture
    is.</em>\r\n\r\nNick, I don't mean to be picky but... Zipf curves are <em>not</em>
    a description of herd instincts per se. They describe a common phenomena that
    appears in a variety of setting in the natural world\u2014just like its close
    relative Pareto's Law (the so called 80-20\" law). Herd instinct and behaviour
    on the other hand is an emergent property of the basic rules that govern the behaviour
    and interaction of individual herd members.\r\n\r\n- <em>some things become very
    popular, quite apart from any quality of merit, because that's the way culture
    is.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree! A brief review of the popular programs displayed on television
    networks or the latest (mostly 3D nowadays) movies, certainly proves that point.
    Another thing that seems to be rather popular today, is bashing and trashing the
    old classic fonts. It would seem at times, as if the typographic herd instinct
    collectively frowns upon those refuseniks who still cling to those Caslons, and
    Bembos, instead of embracing the brave new fonts of our inventive times. \r\n\r\nJust
    to clarify a point, I do not hate Utopia (I don't even \"hate\" Comic Sans). I
    hate that it is used in book settings (and often with tight leading to top!),
    it is an eye sore, just like the man who attends a white tie affair, dressed in
    shabby jeans and rock climbing boots. If you ask me who is the worst dressed person
    <em>in the room</em>, then I would be inclined to say that it is the man with
    the shabby jeans. That is not to say that I have laid a critique against the use
    of jeans in general!"
  created: '2010-11-06 02:20:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: and here I sit reading this wearing my shabby jeans as usual.  Maybe that
    is why I never get invited to white tie affairs--that and the fact that I don't
    know a soul who has either been to one let alone hosted one.
  created: '2010-11-06 03:50:11'
- author:
    name: dinazina
    picture: 113020
  body: "I'm reading a paperback mystery that is set in Galliard. The Roman is very
    pleasant, but the italic (which is used often) is so different and extreme it
    is jarring to the eye. I especially notice the strange Y, as in <em>\"You fool.\"</em>\r\n\r\n@kentlew:
    Can you please explain why Adobe's \"optical\" setting for text is bad? It appears
    to tighten the kerning of some letter pairs, which generally looks like an improvement
    to me. But what do I know."
  created: '2010-11-09 14:20:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: What Adobe calls "optical" I call hit-or-miss.  Sometimes the Adobe thing
    looks reasonable (mostly at large display size) but sometimes you just say WTF
    were they thinking. Perhaps I am of little faith when it comes to any automatic
    cure-all but I find it more trouble than it is worth.  I trust my eyes more than
    their formulas.
  created: '2010-11-09 17:13:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sometimes the Optical spacing can be of help, for example if swashes are
    not kerned, or with \"camel\" casing like MicroSoft. (Lower case\u2014uppercase
    kerning is unusual.) But even there it is better to hand kern if the typesetter
    has learned to do it. \r\n\r\nBut aside from these kinds of exceptional cases,
    it is a menace, as Kent has shown with examples in other threads, with the capacity
    to wreck a well kerned font. The worst thing is that the idea has been propagated
    that this is a \"superior\" kerning, which is as a rule the opposite of the case.
    \r\n\r\nIt would be best if Adobe would either cut it altogether, or at least
    explain it properly. "
  created: '2010-11-09 19:55:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Comparing the two different settings using measures of speed and comprehension
    would make a wonderful study (and probably save a lot of time for software developers
    and typographers alike).
  created: '2010-11-09 20:07:27'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Dina \u2014 The bottom line is that Adobe\u2019s Optical metrics ignores
    the metrics built into a font and completely overrides and subverts the spacing
    that a type designer has spent time designing. For a well-considered text face,
    this is not a good idea.\r\n\r\nAt best, there is little noticeable difference.
    At worst, it can completely disrupt the rhythm of a face. I am perhaps a bit touchy
    about this topic because Whitman happens to be one of those that suffers horribly
    at the hands of so-called \u201Coptical\u201D metrics. I do not proclaim that
    my fitting of Whitman is flawless or perfect. But what Adobe\u2019s algorithm
    chooses to do with it is a travesty.\r\n\r\nA more in-depth critique of Adobe\u2019s
    Optical metrics may be found embedded in this thread: \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/54310#comment-327297"
  created: '2010-11-10 01:16:15'
- author:
    name: type addict
    picture: 121131
  body: "Not Caslon by Mark Andresen.  NOT legible.  \r\n\r\nI wouldn't recommend
    using this typeface for \r\nroad signs!  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Not
    Caslon grab_6005.JPG]"
  created: '2010-11-10 03:10:55'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Trump Medieval \u2014 another one that gives me fits"
  created: '2010-11-16 01:38:55'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'IMAO: The grunge faces.'
  created: '2010-11-28 16:44:46'
- author:
    name: Mat Lucas
    picture: 117906
  body: "Esssshk, yes. So very wrong! :)\r\n\r\nMat."
  created: '2010-11-28 18:25:16'
date: '2010-11-02 18:35:57'
node_type: forum
title: Least legible/readable typefaces (Print)

---
