---
author:
  name: Number3Pencils
  picture: 110698
body: "[Updated]\r\n\r\nHello everyone!\r\n\r\nI made a new font. I would call it
  a text font somewhat in the vein of Electra. It has heaps of OpenType features and
  it supports lots of languages, including Greek and various Cyrillic-alphabet languages
  (as exotic as Mongolian). \r\n\r\nHow does it look? I could especially use critique
  on the Cyrillic and Greek alphabets, but all critique will be useful for me."
comments:
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Hi,\r\nmy (dilettante) impression: cyrilic roman: UC \"Pe\" a bit too wide,
    lc \"yeru\" (61) a bit too loose\r\ncyrilic italic UC \"Pe\" again too wide, \"ze\"
    too narrow, \"zhe\" too dark and it doesn't suit your design (vide \"Lazurski\"
    type)\r\nVery nice design!\r\nBest\r\nJ\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-03 11:25:17'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "It took me a while to get around to it, but I addressed what you said, Janek.
    I didn't change the form of the zhe, because I'm not convinced it can't work,
    but I did tweak it a bit, mainly flattening the top and bottom of the middle stroke.
    \r\n\r\nBesides those little things, I also designed some old-style figures. There's
    a new pdf up top. Anyone have any thoughts? Are any of my letters too distracting?
    I feel like I might be pushing it with some of them, like perhaps /a/, so it'd
    be good to know if someone else thinks they all work okay. I'm open to opinions
    about the disconnected bowls on B, P, and their Russian and Greek kin. "
  created: '2010-12-06 01:21:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is looking good. /a/ works for me. I think roman /W/ is splayed too
    wide (I'd make the bottom vertices closer together), and /y/'s tail is a bit too
    long for my taste (maybe /j/'s too, but maybe not). \r\nI wonder if the bracketing
    on the serifs on the thick strokes should be trimmed back a bit, particularly
    on the capitals - to my eye, you're getting some dark spots there. \r\nI think
    the disconnected bowls in the Latin work fine. /R/ (like /K/) has some sassiness
    to it which it would be neat to see work. Right now, it (/R/) might be a little
    dark overall."
  created: '2010-12-06 04:20:19'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I think you're right about /W/--that's been bugging me a little bit for a
    while. You may also have something with the bracketing of the serifs, and I don't
    know if I would ever have thought of changing that. I'll definitely try out these
    changes.
  created: '2010-12-06 08:45:31'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Alright! I'm back.\r\n\r\nSince the last post I've done lots and lots of
    work on Walleye. I've created a bold and bold italic, and I've made what's needed
    for supporting polytonic Greek, and I've coded many OpenType features, and I've
    done some rethinking of various characters. It's all shown in the new specimen
    that I'm attaching at the top (WalleyeBig.pdf). \r\n\r\nWhat do you think of this?
    I have to admit that when I started this two years ago, I didn't think it would
    get to be nearly this big of a project. I also didn't do any serious research
    into readability, Cyrillic design, or the history of the Greek alphabet. All my
    learning was done on the fly. So it's a miracle if there are no glaring mistakes
    in this font. \r\n\r\nOne of my big fears is that the design itself is too weak
    and I should've waited until I had a stronger idea before sinking two years of
    my font designing energy into this project. Yet I'm this deep already, so I might
    as well polish it into something usable. Don't be afraid to offer rather sweeping
    criticisms. \r\n\r\nAs before, I'm hoping especially for someone to let me know
    whether my Cyrillic and Greek alphabets are just totally way off, since I don't
    actually fluently read those alphabets. But I would also really appreciate any
    and all comments.\r\n\r\nThanks a bundle for looking!"
  created: '2012-04-21 16:46:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know what the problem is - this seems quite complete and mature to
    me! And it has charm. The biggest problem I'm seeing is the Italic - it seems
    really unhappy, but I can't put my finger on why.\r\n\r\nI'm no expert in either
    Greek or Cyrillic, but the \"ksi\" stands out to me as being malformed. I think
    the head is way too large.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-21 18:05:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking good!\r\n\r\nThe challenge you've set for yourself particularly in
    the italic is summed up in the cap /S/. How do you work together the more \"typographic\"
    details with the \"pennish\" qualities like those thick blunt unseriffed terminals
    that you want? In the italic /S/ it starts with a \"typographic\" terminal serif
    at the top right, then switches gears around the first bend and becomes looser
    and more \"written\" looking. Maybe this ambivalent character is what Hrant is
    seeing as \"unhappy.\" That /S/ is a little Frankensteiny.\r\nPerhaps the cap
    italic serifs should try on a less formal form?\r\n\r\nItalic /Q/ (full-size and
    small caps) tail may be a touch too dark.\r\n\r\nI love the italic /Y/!\r\n\r\nIs
    italic /H/ a touch too wide?\r\n\r\nI would try revising all your cap /M/s to
    give more space to the lower side counters and less to the upper middle counter.
    This looks especially strange in italic small cap /M/ but might need addressing
    in the other forms too.\r\n\r\nSuperscript/subscript figures could be bigger to
    make them easier to read.\r\n\r\nI'm not confident enough in the alphabets to
    offer critique of the Cyrillic and Greek (though I will say that I see dark spots
    caused by your italic /\u0436/).  "
  created: '2012-04-21 19:01:48'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: Very nice looking and cross-language consistent!  I don't read or speak any
    languages that use the Cyrillic alphabet, so in practice this may not be a problem,
    but I find that the very thin horizontal strokes combined with the tight letter
    spacing makes combinations of two or more instances of  Tse, Dzhe, Sha, and Shcha
    confusing. They all seem to run together as a series of IIIII's.
  created: '2012-04-21 21:28:29'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks for the comments! It's good to know it's an okay design. I think familiarity
    has been breeding contempt for me lately. \r\n\r\nHrant, when you said the italic
    was unhappy, my first thought was this: Maybe you're picking up on the detailing
    of the lead-in serifs for lowercase letters. In the roman those strokes are all
    convex, but in the italic I've somewhat inexplicably made them concave. I think
    convex looks more optimistic. But I've been thinking concave might actually fit
    better with the design, so I've started considering changing the whole roman to
    concave serifs. I haven't mocked that up yet, but when I do I'll post it here.\r\n\r\nBut
    it could be you're seeing what Eliason is seeing. Eliason, I hadn't thought of
    changing the italic serifs, but it's an interesting idea. I'm just having trouble
    picturing it in a way that would leave the italic looking like it's still related
    to the roman. I kind of have this thing where all the italics I design are very
    different from the romans, so I always cling to every remnant of similarity they
    have so they won't look like I just made two different fonts. The capitals are
    where those similarities abound most. If I can't get a different serif to work,
    maybe I can fix the S by making the banner less prominent (shorter, a bit thinner
    on the right).\r\n\r\nI'll work on the Q and M, and take a look at the H (I actually
    thought it might be too narrow). And I'll check out the italic \u0436 and the
    general spacing of the roman Cyrillic. I should study up on italic \u0436's."
  created: '2012-04-22 04:20:33'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: It looks really good! My suggestions would be to look at the lowercase /zhe
    (particularly the italic) as they seem a bit too dark. Regarding the italic, maybe
    try lowering the joins in the /h/n/m/r? I think having a bit more white space
    there would help.
  created: '2012-04-22 05:51:32'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Looking a bit better? (Before and after.) \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_5553.PNG]"
  created: '2012-04-22 08:12:49'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: This looks like a really well crafted text typeface! I only wonder if the
    somewhat exentric k, s, and some others might scare off buyers...
  created: '2012-04-22 12:27:00'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: That seems better. It's hard to tell when it's not in running text like it
    was in the pdf. What helps me is to look at a block of text and see if any letters
    consistently stand out.
  created: '2012-04-22 15:49:09'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Yeah, I was thinking as I posted it that four letters really isn't enough
    context to judge. I'll post a new pdf when I've done a few more revisions, enough
    to warrant making a whole new pdf.
  created: '2012-04-23 05:16:59'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 1996type - I would think the /a/ would scare them off before those, but it's
    hard for me to look at this through a buyer's totally fresh eyes by now. Anyone
    else have thoughts on whether these stand out as odd?
  created: '2012-04-23 05:43:19'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I put a new pdf at the top (RomanArchLeadin.pdf) with some ideas I've been
    kicking around for a bit of an overhaul on the roman. It's two possible sweeping
    changes\u2014a concave lead-in serif for bdijklmnpru, and an ironed-out arch for
    hmnu. The serif change turned out to be more of a quick mock-up than what the
    actual change will look like if I do it. Anyhow, anyone have any opinions on which
    one's best?"
  created: '2012-04-25 17:31:57'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I prefer old, but it's just a matter of taste, I guess.
  created: '2012-04-25 17:49:54'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'edit: double post'
  created: '2012-04-25 17:52:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think I too would lean to the older shape. Those cool but tricky blunt snipped
    terminals (on /k/ arm etc.) fit better with the convex shape IMO.
  created: '2012-04-25 19:27:03'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: 'I''m coming around to the same conclusion. I might actually stay with the
    old arch, too. I made it early on before this project taught me a lot about beziers,
    so its curves are hacked together ungracefully, but I think even so it might still
    be better than my new try. '
  created: '2012-04-26 10:23:40'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "Very pretty, with a satisfying chunky texture.\r\n\r\nThe only think that
    bumps my eye is the |y|. It looks good in small print, but close-up I find it
    rather ugly. But maybe that's just the bit of eccentricity that lends personality
    to a font."
  created: '2012-04-26 12:32:12'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Is the tail too long for you, or is it the join between the tail and the body
    that's catching your eye?
  created: '2012-04-30 04:56:46'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "New pdfs at the top\u2014WalleyeBig2.pdf and Stannum.pdf. In Stannum, I try
    out a slightly different S (probably not changed in the right direction, I'll
    keep thinking about this) and /hmn/ with deeper arches. \r\n\r\nWalleyeBig2 shows
    everything. Things I've changed since last time:\r\n\u2014Evened out the white
    spaces inside all the /M/s.\r\n\u2014Added contextual alternate for f before things
    that come above x-height and shouldn't be collided with.\r\n\u2014Fixed old-style
    figures' heights so they're all on a level with small caps. For some reason I
    had them all miscellaneous.\r\n\u2014Lightened tail of the /Q/s.\r\n\u2014Enlarged
    sups, infs, numr, dnom.\r\n\u2014Shrank all the serifs on the vertical-stem-based
    Cyrillic letters, after discovering that they were alarmingly big and flappy.
    Relatedly, spaced these letters out a little looser. \r\n\u2014Changed xi and
    \u0436. Looking better?\r\n\u2014Changed the methods of the gj, jj, <cite>gf</cite>,
    and <cite>jf</cite> ligatures. Now the second letter is replaced with a special
    alternate that's made to fit with the preceding one. So now it's handled through
    calt.\r\n\u2014Various tweaks here and there."
  created: '2012-04-30 16:59:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ooh, I find that new Stannum /S/ much more convincing. Much better!
  created: '2012-04-30 17:09:17'
- author:
    name: praitsidis
    picture: 116167
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI had a glance at the Greek and it looks very well done! I think
    your uppercase letters seem absolutely fine.\r\n\r\nFor the lowercase, the only
    things that stood out for me are:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>I found the \"bar\" (?) on the
    \"\u03B5\" (epsilon)a bit too sharp and too contrasted to the weight of the rest
    of the glyph.</li>\r\n<li>The \"\u03BA\" (kapa) is too open at the top. Would
    consider closing it up a bit.</li>\r\n<li>The left descender of the \"\u03C7\"
    (chi) seems a bit heavy and too low. The whole glyph feels biased to the left.
    </li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nHope this helps!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-05-11 09:45:51'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks! Your advice, and a bit of other advice I got in an email (thanks
    Giorgos), have helped.\r\n\r\nWhat seems to catch everyone is the kappa. I went
    back to it and tried making it in some different ways. Am I on the right track
    with any of these? The first one is the original.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_5476.PNG]\r\nI've
    done some work on the chi too. For the epsilon, did you mean the top, middle,
    or bottom bar?"
  created: '2012-05-12 12:01:11'
- author:
    name: praitsidis
    picture: 116167
  body: " The upward stroke in the 3rd and 4th samples seems much more natural for
    me. I prefer the third one. I'd even close it up a tad more, personally.\r\n\r\nFor
    the epsilon I was talking about the middle bar. Just seemed too thin..."
  created: '2012-05-14 10:33:13'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Alright, I'm back (see WalleyeBig3.pdf up top), and I've kerned. I think
    I've also finally solved the kappa problem. I improved a few other Greek characters
    too, including but not limited to the ones Giorgos and Praitsidis mentioned. I
    think I'm juuuust about done with this font, but I still would like critiques
    of what I might have left to do, and of the kerning if you notice anything wonky.\r\n\r\nThe
    other two fonts I've made are being sold through Veer, but Veer isn't taking on
    new fonts anymore, and anyway they don't really target a diverse-language market.
    Does anyone have an idea of what company I could best sell Walleye through? By
    default I thought of MyFonts, but I don't really know a lot about what else is
    out there. (I kind of just hunch over my computer and move pixels around without
    thinking a lot about the market.)"
  created: '2012-05-31 15:08:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking great. Some random observations:\r\nWhere acute accents are followed
    by ascending stems it gets a little crowded.\r\nItalic /p/ is too heavy along
    the mean line.\r\nIn the roman, is /hy/ kerning too loose? Is /Wa/ kerning too
    tight? Have you done caps to caps kerning? In the string of italic capitals it
    seems rather uneven (e.g. /R/ looks closer to /S/ than /Q/, /G/ looks closer to
    /F/ than /H/). \r\nAny way to open up the lower counter of bold roman /k/? Maybe
    trimming back that stem serif?\r\nI still think italic /Q/ tail is too dark, especially
    in the bold. And/Or its bottom bowl could be another place where you take a little
    weight off.\r\nYou might raise that lovely upper right part of italic /v/w/y/
    a hair. Consider raising the top of roman /t/ a touch too.\r\nBold roman /g/ looks
    too tall, like it is popping up above the mean line."
  created: '2012-05-31 15:41:43'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks for the comments! Sorry I didn't reply\u2014I was a bit burnt out
    on font stuff. But now (WalleyeBig4.pdf) I've put in most of the changes you suggested,
    Eliason. (But I forgot to play with raising the top of roman /t/ until I'd already
    made this pdf, and didn't want to generate the font and pdf again.) Good catches.\r\n\r\nI
    might need to lighten the bold italic Q tail still more. And I might have a little
    work left to do on all-caps kerning. I didn't really put much all-caps text in
    the specimen, but if anyone sees any dodginess in the caps stuff that does exist,
    feel free to call it out. \r\n\r\nI couldn't figure out any good solution for
    the \xED-ascender collision, so I moved the acute a tiny bit and decided it might
    have to just be a little claustrophobic.\r\n\r\nThis pdf has a little bit more
    detail on the faux ligatures, on the character set pages."
  created: '2012-06-05 17:46:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Hmm, I didn't see this before, but I think your bold and bold italic letterspacing
    is too loose.
  created: '2012-06-05 18:18:11'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Are you seeing that in the Kafka on the Shore bit, or in the waterfalls at
    the end? I just noticed that InDesign seems to have messed with the letterspacing
    in the waterfalls in order to justify the text. (I'll fix that problem for the
    next pdf I put up.)
  created: '2012-06-06 04:20:26'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ah good, I think it was just the screwy justification I was seeing.
  created: '2012-06-06 06:14:05'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Sweet, I was worried for a little while there.
  created: '2012-06-07 15:01:38'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I guess I'm getting just about close enough that I can call the project finished.
    But before I make that judgement call, I really would like to hear from someone
    who reads in the Cyrillic alphabet. Is there anyone out there who can give me
    some critique? \r\n\r\n(There are few enough Greek type designers that I was able
    to find just a few people to ask personally, but the Cyrillic-reading countries
    seem to be full of type designers, and I would feel weird just picking random
    people.)\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2012-06-11 06:31:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Definitely do not release non-Latin fonts without at least some basic native
    help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-11 06:51:17'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: My thinking exactly.
  created: '2012-06-11 06:58:25'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "The first glyph on the first page of the pdf (Walleye4) exhibits a problemwith
    the W.  It appears to not be solid, but a combination of overlapped outlines,
    which should be combined. Under some circumstances the W doesn't display as intended.
    Note the white overlap in this screen capture:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WalleyW_3586.jpg]\r\n\r\nOn
    my system, looking at the pdf in Acrobat V7, it exhibits this at magnifications
    of 100% and less, so it's not a problem with contour directions.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-11 14:00:37'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Yeah, that's because I still haven't merged all the outlines and flattened
    my contours. I found a macro that's supposed to do all that when I generate the
    font, but I can't figure out how to make it work. I'll figure it out somehow or
    other before the final product though.
  created: '2012-06-12 00:37:27'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I figured out how to use BetterGenerateFont, and I've uploaded a pdf (WalleyeBig5)
    with all the outlines flattened, plus a few small fixes, mainly to kerning. \r\n\r\nAt
    this point I'm not really sure where to turn for advice on the Cyrillics, since
    my hobbyist's budget wouldn't really fit a professional consultant in it, and
    I feel odd about contacting a Cyrillic-reading Typophile out of the blue to bug
    them to take a look at some text font. All I can think to ask is, if no one looking
    at this reads Cyrillic, does anyone know (of) someone who might welcome such an
    out-of-the-blue email?\r\n\r\nOther than that, if you see anything in the new
    pdf that I haven't caught yet, please do tell me. Thanks!"
  created: '2012-06-22 14:18:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know that Alexei Vanyashin runs free workshops here and there, and I've
    suggested that he latch on to type conferences. You could add your voice, and
    if you really are in South Korea trying to make ATypI HongKong click might be
    just the ticket.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-22 15:07:33'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "After a brief look there are a few things that caught my eye:\r\n\u2014The
    leg of the small-cap \xABR\xBB seems a bit dark to me.\r\n\u2014The top diagonal
    of the small-cap \xABK\xBB is hanging a bit too far to the right.\r\n\u2014The
    bottom opening of small-cap \xABW\xBB is more open than the lowercase and uppercase
    versions.\r\n\u2014Crossbar of \xABH\xBB, again the small-cap instance, is somewhat
    high.\r\n\u2014The shapes of \xABupsilon\xBB and \xABpsi\xBB can definitely look
    better, comparing them with what you did with the other greek characters! What
    you did with the italics looks ad hoc.\r\n\r\n\u2014What I really like is the
    italic-roman relationship and their dissonance in width.\r\n\u2014\xABX\xBB and
    \xABY\xBB are original, as well as \xABR\xBB.\r\n\r\nOverall I think you really
    achieved a consistent and distinctive design, which are perhaps two of the hardest
    tasks a typographic designer can strive for. Enviable ;-)"
  created: '2012-06-22 15:59:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hrant\u2014unfortunately, by the time ATypI happens, I'll be very far away
    from both South Korea and Hong Kong. I would like to go to a type conference someday,
    but I'm just barely getting out of the \"poor college student\" phase of my life,
    and into the \"vagabond hitchhiker\" one, neither of which are very well suited
    to attending things that are in other continents and/or have an admission fee
    greater than zero, so I might have to wait a while for the right opportunity.\r\n\r\nLex\u2014Thanks
    for all the critiques! I think you've caught a lot of holdovers from when I was
    just starting this project and hadn't learned as much, for instance the w.sc and
    the upsilon and phi. I'll get on these post haste. As for the upsilon and phi,
    are the roman ones looking okay while the italic ones are wonky, or do you think
    the roman ones need to be rethought too? \r\n\r\nIt's really good to hear that
    I'm hitting my target of consistency and distinctiveness. I also think it's interesting
    that you like the interaction between the roman and the italic, since earlier
    people were saying the italic was too unhappy for the roman. I'm happy with it
    too."
  created: '2012-06-22 17:23:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As an aside concerning conferences, some of them take on volunteers and let
    them get in for free/cheap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-22 17:38:09'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Cool\u2014next time there's one that I can get to at the right time, I'll
    check that option out. Sounds like my kind of way to do it."
  created: '2012-06-23 04:46:31'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Revisions. I forgot to save the old versions of h/k/r/w .sc and of the italic
    upsilon/phi. But I did save both versions of the roman upsilon/phi; the top version
    is the old one. I think they're looking better... what do you think?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_6687.PNG]
  created: '2012-06-24 13:37:15'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "The small caps look splendid!\r\n\u2014The joining at 7:30 of \xABupsilon\xBB/\xABpsi\xBB
    is still too abrupt. You have a pen rotation of almost 90\xB0 that happens precisely
    at the bottom left, where both strokes are thin. In your latest PDF-Sample \"WalleyeBig5\",
    regarding the italics, that problem is inexistent.\r\n\u2014Also, I noticed the
    shapes of \xABupsilon\xBB/\xABpsi\xBB in the roman diverge from the bold! Settle
    on that ;-)\r\n\u2014Bold \xABepsilon\xBB may be to tight."
  created: '2012-06-24 14:36:56'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "The small caps look splendid!\r\n\u2014The joining at 7:30 of \xABupsilon\xBB/\xABpsi\xBB
    is still too abrupt. You have a pen rotation of almost 90\xB0 that happens precisely
    at the bottom left, where both strokes are thin. In your latest PDF-Sample \"WalleyeBig5\",
    regarding the italics, that problem is inexistent.\r\n\u2014Also, I noticed the
    shapes of \xABupsilon\xBB/\xABpsi\xBB in the roman diverge from the bold! Settle
    on that ;-)\r\n\u2014Bold \xABepsilon\xBB may be to tight."
  created: '2012-06-24 14:36:57'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "So, you're thinking that something more like this upsilon would work better?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_4184.PNG]"
  created: '2012-06-26 11:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.typecon.com/archives/1374\r\nAlthough I don't think there'll be
    any significant Cyrillic action there. Even so it's worth the trip - TypeCon is
    very cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-06-26 22:54:00'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: '...And during that one I''ll still be in South Korea. Conventions really
    just aren''t working out for me this year. Really, the first time I might be able
    to get to one is early 2013 if there''s one in the US. TypeCon 2013 seems like
    it''ll be a good target for me.'
  created: '2012-06-27 14:29:43'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: I thought that last design I posted was a bit too suave, so I read up a bit
    more and looked at examples of upsilons through history. I think I've come up
    with a design that avoids that kink but also doesn't look like it came from a
    different, smoother font. What do you think?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_5812.PNG]
  created: '2012-06-28 16:39:45'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Just what I was thinking. What you came up with this second time looks both
    fitting to the design concept and more organic.\r\n\r\nSomething I notice is that
    the roman \xABupsilon\xBB has a slightly slanted axis. But then, I don't think
    it's visual impact on a word is that noticeable. Besides, I'm starting to be annoying
    ;-)"
  created: '2012-06-28 18:05:47'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Hahaha, sometimes improving things can be an annoying process, but every annoyance
    is necessary. I'll take a look at the Upsilon. I've actually always kind of thought
    it's one of my weakest characters. You have a knack for finding the letters that
    I've convinced myself to forget.
  created: '2012-06-29 01:11:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: New pdf at the top, Upsi.pdf, with all the revised upsilons and psis in it.
    That was a surprising amount of work for just two letters.
  created: '2012-06-30 15:25:17'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Huh... I just noticed that I somehow interpreted \"the roman \xABupsilon\xBB\"
    as \"the capital Upsilon\". Well, for better or for worse, I've changed the capital
    Upsilon. I think it looks better now."
  created: '2012-07-01 11:53:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I see your new PDF. Impressive.\r\n\r\nI'm curious, what are your plans for
    selling this?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-26 14:41:39'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks! \r\n\r\nI hear from Veer that they're going to start taking on new
    fonts again soon, so I'm planning on selling it with them and also with MyFonts.
    It's definitely going to have to get done within the next month, because after
    that I'm sending my computer to the other side of the planet and forsaking fixed
    addresses for probably over a year!\r\n\r\nI didn't realize it was visible when
    I put up new files\u2014though I'm not complaining, since I was actually planning
    on putting up a message to accompany it. I mainly put up WalleyeBig7 because I'm
    trying to reach out for Cyrillic critique by email, and wanted the most recent
    changes to be visible on this thread. Cyrillic is the last piece of the Walleye
    puzzle\u2014I got some great Greek help by email. I haven't heard back about Cyrillic
    yet, though I just sent the email yesterday (to Alexei Vanyashin who you mentioned\u2014I
    finally looked him up).\r\n\r\n(The \"latest changes\" that I mentioned are the
    addition of obsolete Greek characters, and of yet more Greek OpenType features,
    and the expanding of the Cyrillic \u0424 vertically as suggested in Alexei Vanyashin's
    [[http://cyreal.org/archives/681|tutorial on Cyrillic type design]].)"
  created: '2012-07-27 13:32:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Awesome. Best of luck with sales.\r\n\r\nWho helped you on the Greek?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-07-27 15:07:13'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: David Perry, designer of Cardo, guru of Greek encoding.
  created: '2012-07-27 16:01:32'
- author:
    name: avanyashin
    picture: 118436
  body: "Hey Nathanael,\r\nHere's a detailed review on WalleyeBig7.pdf\r\nLet me know
    if something is unclear or you have more questions.\r\n\r\nRegular\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_walleye7-1_6345.jpg]\r\n\r\nItalic\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/_walleye7-2_6377.jpg]"
  created: '2012-08-01 09:47:44'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Alexei--\r\nThis is awesome. Thanks so much for putting in all this effort.
    It looks like I have some work to do. I'll post a new sample booklet when I've
    done it all. I'll probably put up a few images while I'm working, too.\r\n\r\nSo,
    for <cite>\u0426\u0446\u0429\u0449</cite>, I guess the \"banner\" descender is
    just too old-fashioned or distracting? I've been wondering about that since I
    made those.\r\n\r\nHow necessary are the serifs on italic <cite>\u0433\u0437</cite>?
    I see a lot of other fonts without serifs on those and it seems like it would
    be hard to make them look good in Walleye."
  created: '2012-08-02 06:17:25'
- author:
    name: avanyashin
    picture: 118436
  body: "Yes, please post a new revision once you have it.\r\n\r\n<cite>So, for \u0426\u0446\u0429\u0449,
    I guess the \"banner\" descender is just too old-fashioned or distracting? I've
    been wondering about that since I made those.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe banner-like <em>\u0426\u0446\u0429\u0449</em>
    look very lettering-inspired, \r\nthey just don't fit in a text typeface.\r\nYou
    might leave them as alternates, if you tweek them in a more conventional way \r\nas
    in Academy\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/academy_3535.png]\r\n\r\nYou
    will need to revise the stroke modulation and extend the shoulder.\r\n\r\n<cite>How
    necessary are the serifs on italic \u0433\u0437? I see a lot of other \r\nfonts
    without serifs on those and it seems like it would \r\nbe hard to make them look
    good in Walleye.</cite>\r\n\r\n<em>\u0433</em> doesn't have serifs \u2013\_you
    need to extend the terminals\r\nto balance the white space.\r\n\r\nYes, traditionally
    (in Didone typefaces) /\u0437/ italic has no top serif.\r\nAlthough, a serif or
    splayed terminal would fit better in your case, \r\nconsidering you have a broad-nib
    design. Try it.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kuenstler_4706.png]"
  created: '2012-08-02 16:26:18'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Okay - that explains everything. I'll get to work - thanks!
  created: '2012-08-03 07:08:23'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Ahh! I finally finished with these revisions (for only the regular weight
    so far). I just posted JustCyr.pdf. Hopefully this is all looking better? I'm
    still not sure about the serif on <cite>\u0437</cite>, but maybe I could be convinced.
    The new style of <cite>\u0434</cite> (also maybe the new <cite>\u043B</cite>)
    seems like it doesn't quite match up with the general flavor of Walleye, so maybe
    I should keep sketching, but what do you think?\r\n\r\nP.S. I think spacing is
    off a bit in some places, but I'll clean all that up when I have final shapes."
  created: '2012-08-08 09:30:00'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Update: Bold and bold italic now done too. PDF attached (JustCyrBold.pdf).
    I decided to keep the old \u043B and \u0437 this time, because they look better
    to me. I'd like to hear any opinions on these."
  created: '2012-08-15 09:57:26'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "I think /zhe/ is too dark in the bold italics. I think it's where the diagonals
    connect to the stem where it gets dark, because they \"meet\" the stem along half
    of its height.\r\n\r\nIsn't /\u0418/ too wide?"
  created: '2012-08-16 11:54:06'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Right you were about \u0436. I fixed that, and now I can't imagine why the
    original one looked alright to me. But \u0418 seems fine to me.\r\n\r\nI put up
    another pdf (JustCyrAll.pdf). I think I've got pretty much everything as it should
    be, so I'm thinking that I'm going to call this version final\u2014aside from
    a few small things (adding nodes at extrema, making sure everything is merged)
    and probably one more <code>calt</code> substitute for those <cite>\u0446\u0443</cite>
    and <cite>\u0449\u0443</cite> combinations that now collide. Speak now or forever
    hold your peace, I suppose. Alexei? And anyone else?"
  created: '2012-08-17 08:57:16'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "RELEASED!\r\n\r\nAt long last, Walleye is available. It has all the features
    that I talked about in this thread, all visible in WalleyeBig8.pdf at the top.
    It's available through both MyFonts and Veer: \r\n<a>http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/looseleaf-fonts/walleye</a>\r\n<a>http://marketplace.veer.com/font/Walleye-Volume-CTT0000654</a>\r\nCheck
    it out! This is the result of two years of effort, several months of that being
    rather intense effort, and I'm pretty pleased with the way it came out. I hope
    you like it too.\r\n\r\n(P.S. I guess it's no longer possible to edit the first
    post of a thread? Why?)"
  created: '2013-01-28 18:28:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Congrats!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-28 18:42:34'
date: '2010-11-02 22:28:33'
files:
- filename: WalleyeStarts.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeStarts.pdf
- filename: WalleyeStarts2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeStarts2.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig.pdf
- filename: RomanArchLeadin.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/RomanArchLeadin.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig2.pdf
- filename: Stannum.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Stannum.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig3.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig3.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig4.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig4.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig5.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig5.pdf
- filename: Upsi.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Upsi.pdf
- filename: WalleyeBig7.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/WalleyeBig7.pdf
- filename: JustCyr.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/JustCyr.pdf
- filename: JustCyrBold.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/JustCyrBold.pdf
- filename: JustCyrAll.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/JustCyrAll.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Walleye (added: plea for Cyrillic critique)'

---
