---
author:
  name: rosaiani
  picture: 109721
body: Hi everyone, <BR>Quark has this feature where it lets you adjust kerning parameters
  for an entire font. I wonder if InDesign has something similar to it or the only
  way is to change the tables in the font itself. <BR> <BR>Thanks!
comments:
- author:
    name: as8
    picture: 109877
  body: The limitation on Cool Kerning is, that the demo version only <BR>will apply
    a limited amount of kerning values. <BR><a href="http://www.knowbody.dk/productbasement/index.asp?language=2&amp;PBSelProd=I000001&amp;PBSelMenu=Download"
    target="_blank">http://www.knowbody.dk/productbasement/index.asp?language=2&amp;PBSelProd=I000001&amp;PBSelMenu=Download</a>
    <BR> <BR>Please remember to watch our video under the Manual section <BR><a href="http://www.knowbody.dk/productbasement/index.asp?language=2&amp;PBSelProd=I000001&amp;PBSelMenu=Manual"
    target="_blank">http://www.knowbody.dk/productbasement/index.asp?language=2&amp;PBSelProd=I000001&amp;PBSelMenu=Manual</a>
    <BR> <BR>That is what wrote S
  created: '2004-11-09 19:28:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I'm reviving this thread because it's three years and two upgrades later...
    but I can't seem to find a way to change the kerning tables permanently for a
    font in InDesign. It's quite easy in Quark but none of the help topics or the
    InDesign book I own seem to explain how to do this in InD. I'm using Perpetua
    and for some reason the italics are kerned way too tight around quote marks. I'd
    like to adjust this globally for the font rather than on a case by case basis.
    Does InDesign allow you to do this? If so, how?
  created: '2007-05-09 21:14:04'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I looked into this recently and it appears that there is still no way to
    apply global kerning tweaks. And I was really hoping it would turn up in CS3\u2014now
    that Indesign has table and cell styles, it would be nice to globally kern all
    of the numbers in those cells without editing my fonts."
  created: '2007-05-10 00:04:25'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "I wouldn't hold my breath for such feature. I understand that this was an
    important add-on back in the day when fonts were constrained to a limited number
    of kerning pairs, but nowadays?!...\r\nIf the font is lacking an obvious kern
    pair, or is kerned too tight, you can almost certainly call it a bug. And the
    job of layout applications is to provide the fonts \"as is\"; layout applications
    are not the right tools to fix fonts."
  created: '2007-05-10 01:06:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Miguel - I don't agree that we should be constrained by the font \"as is\"
    or be forced to kern each pair manually. Even some beautiful fonts have kerning
    problems. When I have \"metric\" kerning turned on in InD, I can see the kerning
    pairs but can't change them globally. I would think that an application created
    to help designers and typesetters do their job as best they can wouldn't just
    dismiss a tool that was so useful in Quark.\r\n\r\nNobody is asking the application
    to fix the fonts, but typesetting is an exacting discipline (if it's to be done
    well) and why not provide a valuable tool to help the designers do that? It would
    only improve the software. I'm actually considering starting this job over again
    in Quark in order to finesse the kerning."
  created: '2007-05-10 01:16:08'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>I understand that this was an important add-on back in the day when
    fonts were constrained to a limited number of kerning pairs, but nowadays?!\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    because a font can have a lot of kerning pairs does not mean that they will be
    applied well, nor does it mean that the pairs will be appropriate for all, or
    even most, situations.\r\n\r\n<cite>If the font is lacking an obvious kern pair,
    or is kerned too tight, you can almost certainly call it a bug.</cite>\r\n\r\nCall
    it a bug to whom? The font designers? The myriad of fonts with crap kerning pairs
    for numbers shows just how many font designers don\u2019t really pay too much
    attention to the users on this issue.\r\n\r\n<cite>And the job of layout applications
    is to provide the fonts \u201Cas is\u201D; layout applications are not the right
    tools to fix fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow you are just being absurd. Typesetting needs
    change dramatically for a number of reasons and layout software should offer users
    the flexibility to cope with those changes. Kerning is not fixing a font, it is
    a method of adapting spacing to a situation. Being able to do this globally would
    be a boon to Indesign users\u2014especially Indesign users who have purchased
    font licenses that do not allow modifications."
  created: '2007-05-10 02:15:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>if the font is lacking an obvious kern pair, or is kerned too tight,
    you can almost certainly call it a bug.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen (pardon my vent), every
    font Adobe has issued is buggy. Try setting \"quotedblleft\" plus \"quoteleft\"
    -- and of course, \"quoteright\" \"quotedblright\".\r\n\r\nOr footnote calls (superiors)
    following a quote(dbl)right -- or following a period -- or comma -- or an f or
    g or or r, t, v, w (sometimes x) or y -- etc. How about fractions, particularly
    the one.numr sort -- following any number? The reason for having arbitrary fractions
    is so if/when you have to set 11/32, you can. That stops any strategy of using
    an unnaturally large left sidebearing on the numerator to get the needed space.\r\n\r\nEtc.
    In any event, a bunch of kern pairs are omitted; others are too loose or too tight
    bye my eye.\r\n\r\nI sort of agree though, that kerning should be in the font.
    The user should be able to fix the kerning, IN THE FONT. To it's credit, Adobe's
    EULA permits this. But man, is it hard taking apart the kerning of an OT font
    & re-doing it. It can be so frustrating that I often go back to our Type 1 fonts
    & make OT versions of them. Today was spent on Adobe Caslon (Type 1 to OT). Of
    course I have Adobe's Adobe Caslon Pro -- it came with some software -- but for
    good kerning & character naming, it is easier to start over, even if I miss kerning
    Tcommaaccent with everything else. I, anyway, set a lot fewer Tcommaaccents than
    I do footnote calls, fractions, and quotes within quotes.\r\n\r\nCharles Ellertson"
  created: '2007-05-10 02:46:15'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>and why not provide a valuable tool to help the designers do that?</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    one plug-in available to do that, isn't there? I doubt that such functionality
    will ever be implemented natively in InDesign, unless thousands of users ask for
    it...\r\n\r\n> <em>nor does it mean that the pairs will be appropriate for all,
    or even most, situations.</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds like it would be better to have
    fonts with no kern at all; this way the user would kern as needed. As a font developer,
    I'd certainly wouldn't mind that... at all!\r\n\r\n> <em>shows just how many font
    designers don\u2019t really pay too much attention to the users on this issue.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have kerned fonts, and I certainly tried to cover all the pairs that I could think
    of, and which made sense, so I know that it's impossible to predict all the situations
    where and how the fonts will be used.\r\n\r\n> <em>Kerning is not fixing a font,
    it is a method of adapting spacing to a situation.</em>\r\n\r\nRight, and a good
    font should have kerning for 97% of those situations. The other 3% can be done
    manually, I think.\r\n\r\n> <em>Try setting \u201Cquotedblleft\u201D plus \u201Cquoteleft\u201D
    \u2014 and of course, \u201Cquoteright\u201D \u201Cquotedblright\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    kind of kerning do those need?\r\n\r\n> <em>others are too loose or too tight
    bye my eye.</em>\r\n\r\nI hear you; we all have different perceptions of how much
    close/far glyphs should be from each other, but for the most part what's in the
    font ought to work for most people, no?"
  created: '2007-05-10 04:36:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I don't get it at all - why NOT provide designers with a valuable tool to
    help us control the appearance of type.\r\n\r\n<cite>That sounds like it would
    be better to have fonts with no kern at all; this way the user would kern as needed.
    As a font developer, I\u2019d certainly wouldn\u2019t mind that\u2026 at all!</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    offense but this is patently absurd. Then why not go for monospace? I would think
    font designers would want to create the best possible appearance for their font.
    But kerning is subjective, and just like there is good design and... not so good
    design, the same holds true for kerning tables. I'm not asking InDesign to make
    these decisions for me (altho it seems to want to) but to provide me with the
    tool I NEED to make these decisions for myself.\r\n\r\n<cite>or the most part
    what\u2019s in the font ought to work for most people, no?</cite> \r\n\r\nand
    comic sans works for a lot of people too. Does that make it good? Are you trying
    to appeal to designers or the lowest common denominator?\r\n\r\nIt's a great application,
    but this is a glaring omission. Your attitude, again no offense, seems pretty
    shortsighted. You really need to wait for \"thousands of users\" before you add
    a feature? If you're gonna ignore the needs of designers who care about kerning
    then I'm gonna stick with Quark.\r\n\r\n(edited for tone)"
  created: '2007-05-10 06:22:45'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Let's come down, alright? You have your views, I have mine, and there's absolutely
    no reason for getting down to that tone.\r\n\r\nI may work for Adobe but I'm not
    in charge of InDesign's development. If you think that's such an important feature,
    use the best channel to communicate it to the right people:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/cfusion/mmform/index.cfm?name=wishform\r\n\r\nHave
    a good day."
  created: '2007-05-10 07:27:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Since the \u2018bug\u2019 existed before InDesign it certainly seems an omission
    (and more important to me than many other features that are available). Even the
    best crafted typefaces cannot meet the requirements of every project and users
    shouldn\u2019t expect them to, it is shortsighted to write off a feature that
    would enable designers to better set type and compile artwork, which is the prime
    purpose of InDesign surely.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2007-05-10 08:37:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "A few thoughts on this:\r\n\r\nSpacing/kerning should be as perfect as possible
    in a font. However, there are limits to this requirement:\r\nFirst, spacing/kerning
    always expresses the 'philosophy' of the type designer, while the typographer's
    spacing/kerning 'philosophy' may be quite different.\r\nSecond, it is impossible
    to care for <cite>all</cite> possible glyph combinations. The larger fonts get,
    the harder this is to achieve. (In old 256 glyph fonts, it was a possible maximum
    of ca 65000 pairs to kern, or check at least; in recent 1000-2000 glyph fonts,
    this is 1-4 mio. pairs to kern, or check.)\r\nWith every font I kern I wonder
    <cite>what</cite> to kern. I mean: beyond the usual stuff. Letters with numerals?
    'T4' or 'A4' can both be pretty ugly combinations. Quotation marks with all kinds
    of math symbols or miscellaneous glyphs? One may refer to them in a text and surround
    them by quotes ...\r\nE.g. in some fonts I noticed kerning pairs for .\u2019 and
    ,\u2019 (in English), but not for \u2019. and \u2019, (in German). Or fonts that
    only kern uppercase with following punctuation marks, but not the other way round
    -- which may occur in email addresses. Not very useful, from a typographer's point
    of view.\r\n\r\nSince there is the Cool Kerning tool (at a reasonable price),
    need to implement this functionality into InDesign is not <cite>that</cite> pressing.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I think it <cite>could</cite> be a useful addition to InDesign.\r\nAlongside the
    current kerning box (for kerning a particular glyph combination at a particular
    place) and the tracking box, I can imagine another kerning box for kerning of
    a particular glyph combination <cite>whereever it appears throughout a the document</cite>.
    Yet it's not that easy, because: does the value apply to this particular font
    only (i.e. style)? or to this font family? or to all fonts in a document? Moreover:
    only in this document or in others too?\r\nI just watched the Cool Kerning demo.
    Its approach to create font groups illustrates that the issue is more complex
    than just additional box -- it requires some more options.\r\n[Edit:\r\nNow I
    think these user-defined kerning pairs are additions/corrections to the <cite>font</cite>,
    not to a single document alone. Since CS is a suite, the kerning pairs saved in
    one app could be available in the others too.\r\nSo, when entering a kerning pair
    in this additional box, this would be added to a special preference file read
    by all CS apps.]\r\n\r\nAs Mr Ellertson says, modifying metrics in OTFs is really
    tricky and may even break other feature functionality in fonts (FLS does not import
    <cite>all kinds</cite> of features when opening an OTF/TTF).\r\nSo an option to
    do this in the layout application maybe is not the worst scenario.\r\n\r\n(I speak
    of 'fonts' here since I refer to the technical side.)\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-10 11:10:13'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I did post the suggestion to the Adobe forum but thanks for supplying this
    form - it seems more likely that it will get read this way.\r\n\r\nAlso sorry
    if my tone was harsh but Miguel it felt to me like you were just dismissive of
    my suggestion as not gonna happen without really considering what value it is
    to designers to be able to control kerning. The choice between \"no kern at all\"
    or just using the fonts \"as is\" (both of which you suggested) is not much of
    a choice, is it?\r\n\r\nI am relatively new to InD and was kind of stunned not
    to find this feature. As a result, when I have a choice, I think I'm more likely
    to continue using Quark. Most publishers in NY still use Quark and this may be
    part of the reason."
  created: '2007-05-10 14:26:59'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Don't get me wrong, I understand the value of such feature, specially for
    book designers. But consider this: When InDesign came along, Quark already had
    this feature for years; nonetheless, InDesign is already in version 5, and there's
    no sight of such feature (I have a vague idea that version 1.0 had it, but I may
    be wrong). The people in charge of InDesign are bright, committed, and surely
    listen to the users' needs. We all know that InDesign and Quark are running for
    the same piece of the cake, so, don't you think that if that feature was *that*
    important, it would had already been added?\r\nAgain, I see the value of being
    able to edit the kerning, but that feature may not be added in the near future,
    unless a lot of users demand for it, I think."
  created: '2007-05-11 01:53:08'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "\r\n<cite>don\u2019t you think that if that feature was *that* important,
    it would had already been added?</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this a variant on \"We get the
    politicians we ask for\"?"
  created: '2007-05-11 02:58:56'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Adobe included KernEdit with PageMaker for awhile, so this aversion to allowing
    users to influence kern pairs is a new doctrine.
  created: '2007-05-11 03:21:06'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "<em>We all know that InDesign and Quark are running for the same piece of
    the cake, so, don\u2019t you think that if that feature was *that* important,
    it would had already been added?</em>\r\n\r\nHeck no.  Adobe doesn't think it's
    important, that doesn't mean it isn't to the rest of us.  "
  created: '2007-05-11 03:23:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "There will always be some difference of opinion between those who design
    a product and those who use it. My complaint with Miguel isn't so much over InDesign
    as it is over the attitude that if a product doesn't offer something, then it
    generally isn't needed.\r\n\r\nMany of you are type designers rather than \"applications\"
    designers. Would it shock you to know that as a user, I find OpenType sadly lacking?
    It lacks a feature I think very important to the user, namely, the ability to
    (fairly easily) modify it for a user's individual needs. Whatever arguments you
    want to advance as to why this is incorrect are also available to the \"applications\"
    designers about their one-size-fits-all products. "
  created: '2007-05-11 13:18:58'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "It was that tone that got my dander up too. Obviously this is a useful feature
    or it wouldn't be in Quark. \r\n\r\nI would think Adobe would be eager to make
    their product even better rather than to dismiss their customers suggestions.
    But they already have my money."
  created: '2007-05-11 14:12:11'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Let me add one more voice to the chorus of those suggesting it is a good
    thing to allow typographers to adjust kern pairs within a page layout application
    as they are needed in particular settings. This feature alone makes Quark a more
    valuable tool for me. \r\n\r\nHas there ever been offered an explanation about
    just why InDesign does not offer this feature?  I don't know the first damn thing
    about building applications, but how tough could it have been to add kern pair
    adjustment?\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2007-05-11 15:02:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Will, it can be a problem. The way Quark worked was to read in those kern
    pairs already in the font, then let the user add to them -- or remove them, if
    that was your preference.\r\n\r\nThe way we worked, on a PC with TeX, (where TeX
    made use of the AFM to make up a TFM for metrics), was simply to edit the AFM
    itself. Nothing was perfect, if you used Fontographer for your kerning, and if
    you had characters (as they were called in those days) above character number
    256, Fontographer would mess up the character names in the kerning -- so you had
    to learn work-arounds.\r\n\r\nBut OpenType is different, with its class-based
    kerning, which I imagine is tables within tables. And just when kerning is applied
    could also get in the way -- if you are substituting glyphs with other features,
    kerning obviously has to wait until all such substitutions have been made. Since
    I'm not a programmer, this seems like a tougher nut to crack than the simple Quark
    approach to Type 1 fonts. I would also worry that Adobe might farm the programming
    of this one out, as it appears the exception dictionary was farmed out, with similar
    results.\r\n\r\nThe more I work with OpenType, the more I'm against class-based
    kerning, on the grounds that creates more problems than it solves."
  created: '2007-05-11 17:05:13'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "What I find interesting about this thread is that it sounds like all of sudden
    people realized that they're using a tool (assuming that they're using InDesign)
    that does not have a kern table editing feature, when in fact it's been like that
    forever. I mean, I'm all in favor of giving more power to the users (see <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/32683\">Who
    wants/needs a Glyph Palette in Photoshop?</a>, for example), but it's the first
    time I hear so many voices complaining about the lack of such feature.\r\n\r\nIf
    nothing else, I truly wish that this thread helps you all get what you want. I'm
    a big fan of InDesign, and if it turns out that this feature has been on your
    wishlist for a long long time and hasn't been added yet, then speak up; our combined
    forces will hopefully make their way to the right people. (But again, what blows
    my mind is that from 2004, when this thread was started, until now, I don't recall
    anyone raising this issue. Therefore, thanks to Patricia for resurrecting this
    discussion.)\r\n\r\n> <em>I would think Adobe would be eager to make their product
    even better rather than to dismiss their customers suggestions.</em>\r\n\r\nAFAIKT
    Adobe *is* <em>eager to make their product even better</em>, and all input towards
    that is welcome. But, this thread didn't start as a <em>customer suggestion</em>,
    neither your revisitation of the topic sounded like one. But I agree that it is
    turning into a customer suggestion, for which I'm thankful that you brought it
    up.\r\n\r\nMy replies were simply my interpretation of why a kerning tables feature
    isn't available in InDesign, and certainly do not express the reasons behind what
    went into the decision of not adding it. (FWIW, InDesign has been around longer
    than I've been working for Adobe)\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I think it's time for
    all of us to steer this thread into the right direction (or start a new one),
    and contribute constructively for the discussion.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2007-05-11 17:25:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Miguel - I've only been using InDesign for a few months or I'd no doubt have
    raised the flag earlier. Late to the game (as I mentioned, book publishing is
    still pretty Quark-centric). I did follow your suggestion and make a feature request,
    hope others did the same and we'll have a groundswell and either get a plugin
    or it will be implemented in CS 4.\r\n\r\nI did download that Cool Kerning plug
    in but haven't a clue how to install it."
  created: '2007-05-11 17:41:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Like Patty I have only recently started using InDesign where the client has
    requested it. I use the kerning pairs feature regularly in Quark.\r\n\r\nTim "
  created: '2007-05-11 18:31:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Patty, where did you find it? Is it really $99.00 US?
  created: '2007-05-11 18:37:05'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I have always been under the impression that the Optical Spacing feature
    of Id was meant to take care of kerning issues. I even kind of remember that it
    was based on an algorithm developed by (or inspired by) David Kinderleys work
    in that field. I may have understood all of that, but I did a lot of work with
    Id over the years, and hardly ever found fault with kerning Apart from some of
    the usual situations that would turn up (mostly specific to the Dutch language
    and my personal preferences) \u2014 these I solved manually.\r\n\r\nIn my Quark
    days (well, actually 13 years) I have used the Kerning tool only for global kerning
    (larger sizes, less space, etcetera). I DID use Fontographer to mess with really
    awkward fonts, mostly MonoType ones. : )\r\n\r\nBut if building Kerning into Id
    will ease the work of type designers, I'm all for it..."
  created: '2007-05-11 19:42:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I believe that Adobe's Optical spacing is based on a program developed by
    URW inconjunction with Hermann Zapf, and bought by Adobe; I don't think Kindersley's
    work, which was different, had anything to do with it. \r\n\r\nOptical Spacing
    can take care of some problems, but it won't do the kind of thing Charles wants,
    with kerning of quotations marks and footnotes etc. in exactly the way he, the
    compositor, specifies.  "
  created: '2007-05-11 20:05:42'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Tiff - I followed the link above, in this thread. I have no idea if I downloaded
    the Demo or the real version but didn't pay for it, so it must be the demo. I
    also have no idea how to install it, or what they're talking about when they say
    \"All plugins require the KLiC plugin in order to work correctly.\" So I haven't
    done anything with it. It's sitting on my desktop.\r\n\r\nOptical spacing is definitely
    an improvement over Metric, at least for Perpetua Italic. But I am using this
    font in InDesign for a book and would really like to have been able to tweak it
    myself. If I were working in Quark I'd spend about an hour improving it before
    I start laying out the book. This client is the only one I have who won't take
    Quark. I have at least 3 or 4 who use Quark exclusively, and several who take
    both. Quark Passport is a valuable tool for publishers who print foreign co-editions.
    I don't know if InD has multi-language support."
  created: '2007-05-11 20:19:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if building Kerning into Id will ease the work of type designers\r\n\r\nHuh,
    ease? You want <cite>less</cite> work?!\r\n\r\nActually I've personally become
    quite happy that InDesign doesn't support the addition of custom kerning, because
    I just got a contract to respace a font that's being used in an InDesign document.
    \ :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-11 20:33:44'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Patty:\r\nYou might do well just buying Typetool 3 for your kerning, remembering,
    of course, to rename your re-kerned fonts, and to check your EULAs!"
  created: '2007-05-11 20:41:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Well, d'oh. I didn't see that before.\r\n\r\nPatty, find your InDesign application
    folder. Then within that find the Plugin folder. You can just drop the two files
    in there."
  created: '2007-05-11 20:43:03'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI'm not gonna bother with that thanks. That creates all sorts
    of other problems, such as then how does the client license the re-kerned font?
    Fugeddaboutit. I'll just have to weigh the kerning options b4 deciding which app
    to use.\r\n\r\nI'm not compulsive about kerning, but often enough I find a font
    that needs some work and am used to being able to do that in the design app."
  created: '2007-05-11 20:56:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> how does the client license the re-kerned font?\r\n\r\nThe EULA will tell
    you. Usually if the EULA allows modification the client just needs to own a copy
    of the original. Sometimes the person modifying it needs to own a copy too, but
    not always, for example if the work is technically (certainly not necessarily
    physically) in-house, or if you remove the font from your own computer once the
    work is complete. Many licenses are transferable, in which case as long the font
    is only present at one \"entity\" at a time you're legally OK with just one copy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-11 21:11:43'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Patty: Out of the box, InD CS3 supports all of the languages that Quark Passport
    does, and then some (e.g: Bulgarian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Ukrainian, Romanian,
    Slovenian, and full support for Hungarian.) I can''t tell you anything about how
    well the 2 apps do on these languages (how well the hyphenation works, etc.),
    but InD CS3 wins on the specs!'
  created: '2007-05-11 21:13:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">all of sudden people realized that they\u2019re using a tool ...that does
    not have a kern table editing feature.\r\n\r\nMiguel, I think it's interesting
    that both Charles and Patty are book designers, and both are recently switching
    to InDesign--one from TeX, one from Quark. To me that suggests a couple of things:
    first because of books' longevity that some people are willing to take more care
    in typographical detail. Second that maybe only recently are you getting book
    people on board with InDesign. \r\n\r\nIf these two very experienced designers
    are indicative, it would mean that the kerning feature is in fact important for
    people in book production, and having the feature might help win them over to
    InDesign.  "
  created: '2007-05-11 21:13:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Optical Spacing can take care of some problems, but it won\u2019t do
    the kind of thing Charles wants, with kerning of quotations marks and footnotes
    etc. in exactly the way he, the compositor, specifies.</cite>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I believe the optical kerning routine won't do this at all. I set quoteright-quotedblright
    in InDesign, and switching on optical kerning. Nothing happened -- there were
    still three \"raised commas\" all together. No change in the note call spacing,
    either. Maybe I did something wrong. &BTW, the space between a quotedbl(left or
    right) and a quote(left or right) is about half a word space, optically.\r\n\r\nI
    don't mind having to kern some things by hand, in the file. In fact, our rule-of-thumb
    is all display type has to be hand-kerned, because what's right depends on the
    setting size, how many words there are in the line, etc., etc. Text is another
    matter -- we had one comp that who had to spend 4 hours extra on a job hand-kerning
    all the note calls that followed a close quote, and finding all those bloody places
    where the open quotes were kerned back into a word space (this kerning was in
    the font), where something like an \"f\" preceded the word space. A number of
    times, the \"f\" was closer to the open quotes than the open quotes were to the
    letter that followed, even though technically a word space intervened. Customers
    would mark such proof \"P.E.--add word space.\"\r\n\r\nAnyway, four hours work
    & a grumpy comp.\r\n\r\nOh -- Bill, I don't really call myself a designer. I can
    design when needed, but I'm only a compositor -- what AIGA calls a \"tradesman.\" "
  created: '2007-05-11 21:15:07'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Patty:\r\nAs Hrant says, the licensing needn't be any more complicated than
    usual: the client would need to have a license for the font anyway, right?\r\n\r\nBut,
    don't get me wrong, I strongly support having kerning addressed within InDesign."
  created: '2007-05-11 21:56:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Easier just to use Quark, innit?
  created: '2007-05-11 23:11:32'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: I agree it's a pain.  The only plus is that the re-kerned font would be available
    to you in other apps.
  created: '2007-05-11 23:47:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Easier just to use Quark, innit?</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly if you actually
    know Quark and own a copy. "
  created: '2007-05-11 23:55:26'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Charles Ellertson -- <cite>The more I work with OpenType, the more I\u2019m
    against class-based kerning, on the grounds that creates more problems than it
    solves.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomehow I like the idea that an application, or suite of
    applications, allows to do \"font modifications\" externally to a font. Whether
    by modifying an AFM file (\"semi-external\") or adding to a kerning preferences
    file. Doing these things externally, it does not matter at all whether a font's
    kerning is class based or not. Simply enumerating pairs is simple, but highly
    unproductive as regards font-internal kerning. External modifications can (should?)
    work without classes, irrespective of how the font is built internally.\r\nThe
    only issue I can imagine is when kerning gets contextualized.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\n\r\nOther
    pluses of adjusting kerning externally to a font are (legal) avoiding EULA issues,
    and (usability, typographer's p.o.v.) avoiding different versions of a typeface
    on the HD.\r\n\r\nhrant -- <cite>Huh, ease? You want less work?! Actually I\u2019ve
    personally become quite happy that InDesign doesn\u2019t support the addition
    of custom kerning, because I just got a contract to respace a font that\u2019s
    being used in an InDesign document. :-&gt;</cite>\r\n\r\nSo here speaks the type
    designer, not the typographer?&nbsp;&nbsp;:)"
  created: '2007-05-12 09:30:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Karsten,\r\n\r\nIn theory, I've no complaints with an approach where kerning
    modification is external. In practice, it depends on how it works. I never used
    Quark, so what I don't know is if, once read in for a job, the kerning was always
    with a file, or you had to remember to read it in each time you opened a file.
    \ For example, books go through a cycle of proofs. You finish the first proof
    & ship it off to the customer. Six weeks or so later, proof is returned & you
    make corrections. If the first proof used the external kerning program but you
    forget to read it in for second proof, all your line ending will change -- or
    In InDesign, lines where the \"wax\" is disturbed. The problems due to the bugs
    with InDesign's  exception dictionary that can be made a part of the file come
    to mind.\r\n\r\nWhatever, it would be an improvement on the current situation.\r\n\r\nAs
    to class based kerning, yes it is an aid in dealing with the increased character
    set of OpenType, but in practice, it all to often seems to be a token effort.
    Much kerning involves vowels, which take diacritics. Frequently the class for
    a vowel simply includes the vowels with all the diacritics, and unfortunate kerning
    results. And since the original \"kerner\" tends to deal with shapes rather than
    meaning, it is wasteful in a way; \"Gamma\" will never (rarely?) occur with \"e\"
    in a word, the characters are from different alphabets.\r\n\r\nHaving said all
    that, I confess I do use a little class-based kerning, but always feel a little
    guilty, as the values entered are usually a compromise I think I can get away
    with."
  created: '2007-05-12 13:05:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Mr Ellertson, indeed class kerning's merits are at the same time its
    downsides. It is on the type designer to make good use of the possibilities which
    the technology offers, e.g. to care for diacritic. (This is best addressed in
    two ways: by defining exceptions to class kerning where necessary, and by designing
    diacritic marks such that they do not require too much space and so avoid collision
    at least in some cases.)\r\nPersonally, I would not dare touch an OpenType font's
    kerning information because I do not know the logic by which classes are made.
    \r\n\r\n(As regards document reflow: I have spent some thoughts about how an InDesign
    implementation might look like. I can think of a solution which does not not change
    the kerning if the according user-defined kerning preference file is not present.
    And I think the way these kerning pairs are defined can be done more comfortable
    than in XPress' and Cool Kerning. The latter, however, does a very good job, because
    it only uses existing interface elements, and also avoids document reflow in case
    that the plugin is absent.)"
  created: '2007-05-12 14:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So here speaks the type designer, not the typographer?  :)\r\n\r\nRemember,
    I just make fonts, I don't use them.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-12 14:43:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Aua-aua-aua!&nbsp;&nbsp;:))
  created: '2007-05-12 14:51:55'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Karsten,\r\n\r\nFor goodness sake (unless it's too terribly forward of me),
    call me Charles. All this started because long ago I was on another forum, where
    your *name* field was limited to 15 characters -- my name doesn't fit. So I was
    \"Charles,\" until, inevitably, there was another \"Charles.\" I then became \"charles_e\".
    The downside is when I feel strongly enough about something to make a statement
    & don't want to do so anonymously, I have to put my full name at the bottom of
    the post.\r\n\r\nWhen grandpa came over from what is now called Sogn og Fjordane
    -- he wasn't the oldest son & the farm was too small to split again -- we sort
    of lost what was left of any old world manners. If I'm being too forward, forgive
    me. \r\n\r\n    "
  created: '2007-05-12 18:29:55'
date: '2004-11-09 18:42:40'
node_type: forum
title: Kerning Tables in InDesign?

---
