---
author:
  name: david h
  picture: 110928
body: "Israel,\r\n\r\n\r\nWhy would one start studying or reviewing Hebrew grammar
  with Zalman Hanu who is known for his controversy  and criticism that he attracted.
  \ It would be easier to have a simple, up-to-date Biblical Hebrew grammar with clear
  and concise content, which could give a better understanding. Later on when this
  content is a little bit more clear , you could start to dig into other material?\r\n\r\nFrom
  the ping-pong conversation it is clear that the main difference is in the starting
  point. That said, understanding that there are issues that can not be solved;  the
  decisions are left to the user. The second difference is familiarity with subject
  matter, and how this rule or the other might be applied to the text, the Biblical
  text, and when this rule can't be applied.\r\n Based on what I've written you'll
  see why  I really doubt that the subject was explained to Prof. Dotan  in a clear
  manner. \r\n\r\nDagesh: It is well known that the Biblical Hebrew has a dagesh named
  Dehik and/or Ate Merahik. Why \"and/or\"? Because  some say that the  phenomenon
  was called Ate Merahik , and the dagesh that marked it was called Dahik  -- who
  said that? Prof. Dotan.  Some say  that Dehik and Ate Merahik  are two different
  things. \r\nHa-Gra, Vilna Gaon, for example, when he  discussed the dageshim he
  first talked about dagesh hazak, then dagesh kal. In the section/paragraph about
  the dagesh kal he also talked about the dehik and ate merahik, which tell you that
  he might have seen that kind of dagesh as kal. While others saw that dagesh as a
  form of dagesh hazak.\r\n\r\nLet's see the Dehik in action. \r\nThe word \u05D1\u05DF
  has a dagesh even  though the word before \u05D9\u05DC\u05D3\u05D4 is ending in
  the letter he \u05D4 (this issue already was mentioned several times). \r\n In other
  words, the dehik  nullifies the rule which doesn't allow a beged kefet letter to
  have a dagesh  after ahevi \u05D0\u05D4\u05D5\"\u05D9 letters.  Is that all? Not
  quite. This dehik is marked when the first word  \u05D9\u05DC\u05D3\u05D4 has a
  mile'el stress because of the nasog ahor (=when the stress is shifted), and only
  if the  stressed syllable could have  light ga'ya.  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample1_6659.png]\r\nNow
  the sheva  is na or nach? \r\nProf. Dotan, like Prof. Rabbi Breuer and  Prof. Yeivin
  \ articulated and formed different rules. Prof. Dotan, for example,is  known for
  his rule about the nasog ahor: sheva after nasog ahor is sheva nach  \u05E0\u05D7.
  So, the sheva is na or nach? Does the word have a *true* mile'el  stress? \r\n\r\nAnother
  important aspect of the nasog ahor is that it is never shifted to a closed syllable.
  We said \"never\"? Well, not if  we are talking about perfect verb forms with vav
  consecutive.  Is this  going to affect any marking e.g. sheva na? Well,  the answer
  is very simple: there's no shortcut besides examining the Bible several times. \r\nHere
  is one more example which shows that one time there's nasog ahor, and another time
  there isn't. Is that going to affect the sheva, or the rule that sheva is na under
  the first of a pair of identical letters?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample2_5106.png]\r\n\r\nWe
  know that in the Tiberian tradition a sheva after a long vowel was pronounced as
  sheva nach.  Just a quick glance at the Tevir will prove that. \r\nThe rules of
  the Tevir (or the servants of the tevir) tell us that darga could be its servant
  only if there are at least two vowels/syllables or one vowel/syllable and sheva
  na between the servant and the tevir. That is why this sheva is regarded as na:
  \ \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample3_3514.png]\r\nand this sheva is
  nach: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample4_3840.png]\r\nSo, every sheva
  after a long vowel which is accented should be na, right? Well, we said before that
  the ta'amim has a great power. \r\nThe next example shows the letter dalet with
  sheva, and the vowel before it is long & accented, but  this sheva is nach! Find
  any printed book, or bring any established opinion that will claim otherwise. I'm
  all ears.  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample5_3944.png]\r\n\r\nMoreover,
  the rules (or part of them) of the heavy regular ga'ya shows similarity (sheva after
  long vowel). Heavy  regular ga'ya is marked in a closed syllable which is separated
  from the stressed syllable by another syllable which is marked by sheva na. \r\nSo,
  this is sheva na:  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample6_3795.png]   \r\nand
  this sheva is nach:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample7_4126.png]\r\nIn
  other words, one can not ignore the ta'amim. They are going hand in hand with the
  nikkud. There is always a chain reaction -- one thing that is related to the other,
  and one thing that is affecting the other in certain circumstances.   One should
  open his eyes and see that there are many changes to the nikkud (whether it is,
  or isn't  related to the goal of marking sheva na, kamats katan etc. etc.)  and
  should understand them. Copying marks from a siddur or chummash without understanding
  \ the basic, without exploring the text , is not going to help. Neither is  Wikipedia,
  Wikishimiki . \r\n\r\n\r\nIs it possible to find different points of view? Of course.
  So, the first task has nothing to do with VOLT, FontLab, FOG, OpenType etc. etc.
  \ \r\nThe first task is the  understanding of the  rules of the grammar, understanding
  the Bible,  and understanding that there are different points of view that can't
  be bridged!\r\n\r\n\r\nPart B: To Be Continued \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nThank you for your continuing expose on this topic of how Hebrew
    grammar is defined by the placement of the nikud in a word.\r\n\r\nI look forward
    to part two.\r\n\r\nI have chose R' Zalman Henna's book simply because it addresses
    the function of nikud, as it name implies: \u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D9\u05E1\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D9\u05E7\u05D5\u05D3 \"The Foundation of the Hebrew Vowels (nikud)\".\r\n\r\nI
    have acquired many books, mostly from non-Jewish or secular grammarians. With
    all due respect to their great scholarship attributed \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3\u05DD
    \u05E9\u05DC \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3\u05DD \u05DE\u05D5\u05E0\u05D7\u05D5, the
    books are very poorly structured and written.\r\n\r\nEach assumes that the reader
    has certain knowledge, yet that knowledge is not defined in the book.\r\n\r\nExamples
    and explanatory posts from you and Eli are very helpful, but a succinct comprehensive
    presentation has not yet been forthcoming.\r\n\r\nYou described it accurately
    earlier, by comparing the relationship between a series of nikud and dagesh as
    a \"chain-reaction\".\r\n\r\nAgain, I seek to cull from your examples and those
    of Eli, a set of definitions of the chain-reactions; ie. this causes this, then
    this causes this, and so on.\r\n\r\nThis is why I think this is possible in MS
    Volt. Once the Hebrew text is marked up completely based upon the set of definitions
    of the chain-reactions, then the shvas can be marked correctly as na or nach (with
    a standard appearance), the kamatzes as katan or gadol (with a standard appearance),
    and afterwards the other markings are returned to their original appearance.\r\n\r\nBut
    I agree with you. This is the structure of the algorithm, but importance of the
    relations between the nikuds and dageshs is primary."
  created: '2010-11-15 04:39:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWho addresses this topic clearly and succinctly? I was disappointed
    with Davidson. Doesn't anyone write a clear overview?"
  created: '2010-11-15 04:42:09'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "David, Thank you for your long post but maybe you should clearify.\r\nIf
    he does't know what is TAAM MAADMID, MOLICH, MATHIM Ect' you are talking chinies.\r\nThe
    first thing to do, is to break up the TEAMMIM to their 4 groups and what they
    are.\r\n\r\nLets say the PASUK \u05E9\u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05D1\u05D9\u05DA \u05D5\u05D9\u05D2\u05D3\u05DA\r\nunder
    the Gimel We hav a Tsere that normaly the following sheva shoult be NA becuase
    the Tsere is A Tenua Gedola.\r\nBut in this case we Have a TAAM MAAMID Over the
    gimel,therfore this sheva is nach.\r\n\r\nBut this you did not explain.\r\n\r\nIn
    other word, if you don't break it down to him from the basics, all he will hear
    is chienies..."
  created: '2010-11-15 04:59:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "When I was a child, I learned to eventually derive an unknown meaning of
    a word from its context in a sentence and/or in the paragraph. \r\n\r\nLater,
    after the meaning of that word is derived or discovered, meaning by implication,
    could be further derived, as our sages obm promise: \u05D4\u05DC\u05D5\u05DE\u05D3
    \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 \u05DE\u05EA\u05D5\u05DA \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 - one can derive
    further information by extrapolation.\r\n\r\nSo, David and Eli, when you cite
    examples with words that sound like Chinese or Greek, they do not fall upon my
    deaf ears. Rather, eventually, everything is understood. More than you intend
    to convey is understood."
  created: '2010-11-15 10:48:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nI quoted R' Zalman Henna's book earlier about Tenuas. You have
    referred to the term many times as well.\r\n\r\nI don't clearly understand 'what
    is a tenua?'\r\n\r\nIn music, a tenua, or a movement, is a series or a set of
    sounds. In Hebrew grammar, is a tenua also a pair or set of sounds?"
  created: '2010-11-15 10:54:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> the Tsere is A Tenua Gedola\r\n\r\nAccording to this, each sound is a
    tenua movement.\r\n\r\nWhere are the different nikud sounds or vocalizations defined
    as tenuah katana or tenua gedola? Are their others?"
  created: '2010-11-15 10:59:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although I'm not at all familiar with the subtleties of Hebrew vowel notation,
    the discussion is clear enough. The initial post pointed out that there are many
    controversies with respect to certain subtle points, and that the positions taken
    on these questions by Zalman Hanu, in particular, are considered controversial
    and not generally accepted. The response to that by GoHebrew was that the books
    by other authors had not gone right to the level of the basics, of the foundations
    of Hebrew grammar, in the way that those of Zalman Hanu had done.\r\n\r\nSo instead
    of resolving this by David Hamuel spending time explaining everything in terms
    of the basics of Hebrew grammar, one would think what's needed here is a pointer
    to a good book. Are there more orthodox works on Hebrew grammar that attempt to
    go right to the basics, right to the foundations, of why Hebrew works the way
    it does?\r\n\r\nI can see why someone with a new theory might have to go further
    down than others in order to justify his new ideas; that doesn't make them true,
    of course, since languages are natural systems that we take as we find them -
    grammar is not like physics or mathematics, where reductionism all the way down
    is a strongly effective approach."
  created: '2010-11-15 14:00:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nYou have surmised well the issue at hand.\r\n\r\nThere is
    another factor I seek to add to your summary.\r\n\r\nI intend to only derive the
    basic and foundations of nikud vocalization of Hebrew grammar from R' Zalman Henna's
    book, and to differentiate it from any controversial theories or statements.\r\n\r\nI
    stand corrected by Bill to regard non-Orthodox explanations as acceptable, as
    our sages obm regarded wisdom from any source as valid (only 'truth' ie. belief
    is unacceptable from invalid sources - hence, we don't find Martin Buber's I-Thou
    philosophy or Buddhist thought finding a home in Orthodox Judaism, but embraced
    advances in science, mathematics, and phsics etc).\r\n\r\nIt seems that the good
    book, or a primer to the function of nikud vocalization, needs to be written.
    My list gets longer.  :)"
  created: '2010-11-15 14:26:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "An aside:\r\n\r\nThe naming convention and spelling of the name of R' Zalman
    Henna (Rabbi Shlomo Zalman b\"r Yehuda Leib Sh\"n Katz from Henna):\r\n\r\nThe
    name 'Henna' is spelled '\u05D4\u05E2\u05E0\u05D0'. This is a Yiddish spelling
    and pronunciation. The ayin \u05E2 is like a  \u05B6 'EH' sound. Hence, it is
    pronounced 'Henna', and not 'Hanu' or 'Hanau'\r\n\r\nFrom his haskamot letters
    of endorsement, Henna is the name of the town from whence R' Zalman either came
    or originated. It was common then to identify a person not by referring to his
    or her surname. Rather, reference was made to the place from whence they came.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, R' Moshe Neviller was called by this name, because R' Moshe came from
    the village of Neville.\r\n\r\nDavid, why do you prefer to call \"R' Zalman Henna\"
    as \"Zalman Hanu\"? I've heard also \"Zalman Hanau\". Is Hanu or Hanau the gentile
    pronunciation of th Yiddish \"Henna\"?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-11-15 14:58:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "At www.hebrewbooks.org, I found this book, by R' Zalman Hena, listing the
    tenua gedola and tenua ketana. The book is called: \"Sefer Zohar HaTeiva\" - alluding
    to the source of light in Noah's Ark.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sefer
    zohar hatayvah_6585.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHere is R' Zalman Hena's list:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tenua
    gedola ketana_3784.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHe lists as a tenua gedola the following 5
    nikkud:\r\n\r\na) kamatz gadol (what is a kamatz katan?)\r\nb) chirik gadol (what
    is a chirik katan?)\r\nc) tzeiray (he says a segol is an offshoot \u05EA\u05D5\u05DC\u05D3\u05EA\u05D5
    of a tzeiray)\r\nd) shuruk gadol (a shuruk katan is known today as a kubutz)\r\ne)
    cholam\r\n\r\nHe lists as a tenua katana the following 5 nikkud:\r\n\r\na) patach\r\nb)
    chirik katan\r\nc) segol\r\nd) shuruk katan(, known today as a kubutz)\r\ne) kamatz
    chataf (is this a kamatz katan?)"
  created: '2010-11-15 17:43:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A tenua is only defined by nikud, and not by the Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    there are only particular aspects of the nikud which cause different reactions,
    which we are calling \"chain-reactions\", and not due to certain Hebrew letters,
    as Eli showed by emamples.\r\n\r\nIf we pin-point those particular aspects of
    the nikud, then Eli might be convinced that it is necessarily those Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nDo
    those same Hebrew letters react in the same way under similar conditions? If not,
    then this seems to indicate that they themselves cause the said reactions.\r\n\r\nIn
    my mind, I hear Prof. Dotan's mantra repeating itself: \"It's all in the nikud,
    it's all in the nikud, t's all in the nikud ...\""
  created: '2010-11-15 18:09:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli, are there any words spelled the same, with the same same nikud or dagesh,
    but differ regarding the shvah-na or kamatz katan?\r\n\r\nie. the word is used
    differently, one as a verb, and one as a noun?"
  created: '2010-11-15 18:13:06'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: GoHebrew, R' Zalman Hena's way of grouping the tnuot gedolot and ketanot,
    is not exactly the way you want to do it in volt because this is not todays standart.
  created: '2010-11-15 18:23:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nWhat is today's standard for grouping the tnuot gedolot and ketanot?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the practical difference between these two types of groupings?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-15 18:39:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: here[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tnuot_4344.jpg]
  created: '2010-11-15 18:40:56'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: ">> Eli, are there any words spelled the same, with the same same nikud or
    dagesh, but differ regarding the shvah-na or kamatz katan?\r\n\r\nie. the word
    is used differently, one as a verb, and one as a noun?\r\n\r\n----- Meny\r\n\r\nExample:
    Lamed qamats + mem sheva + dalet qamats + he = can be either LOMDA or LAMDA\r\nAnother:
    Shin Qamats + Mem Sheva + Resh Qamats + He = SHOMRA or SHAMRA\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-15 18:51:00'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "and another\r\nTEVEL = Tav Bet Lamed\r\nMileil = Tevel Asur min Ha'tora\r\nMilera
    = World"
  created: '2010-11-15 18:52:22'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Eli,\r\n\r\nYour first set of two examples, lomda/lamda, and shomra/shamra,
    differ in either having a shvah-na or not, by meaning, which can not be easily
    deciphered by context.\r\n\r\nHowever, both your examples have the very same nikud
    sequence: kamatz, shevah, kamatz, end with no nikud.\r\n\r\nI have two questions
    then.\r\n\r\n1)  Do we have ever two identically spelled words, with identical
    nikud, but not: kamatz, shevah, kamatz, end with no nikud.\r\n\r\n2)  Are any
    of these nikud: first kamatz, shevah, last kamatz, distinguished here from ordinary,
    such as one kamatz being gadol, and one kamatz being katan; the exception of course
    being the shvah, which is nach is one word, and na is the other?"
  created: '2010-11-15 19:22:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Btw, is the verb with the shvah-nach, or shvah-na?
  created: '2010-11-15 23:20:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> But this you did not explain.\r\n\r\nRead it again.Carefully.\r\nAnd each
    sample/word/verse is chosen carefully! There is always a *catch*\r\n\r\n> TEVEL
    = Tav Bet Lamed\r\n> Mileil = Tevel Asur min Ha'tora\r\n> Milera = World\r\n\r\nWhat
    is 'Tevel Asur min Ha'tora'? -- verse,book?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 00:08:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "'Tevel Asur min Ha'tora' is from the Talmud. I believe it's a mishnaic teaching.\r\n\r\nBoth
    words are spelled the same, with the same nikud. But there is no shva etc. I believe
    though their root letters differ."
  created: '2010-11-16 00:46:23'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> 'Tevel Asur min Ha'tora' is from the Talmud. I believe it's a mishnaic
    teaching.\r\n\r\nI'm talking about the Bible..."
  created: '2010-11-16 01:08:20'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "One is \"Tevel Ve'yoshvei Ba'\r\nThe othe Tevel Like Chadash (new) Asur min
    Ha'Torah"
  created: '2010-11-16 01:08:45'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: I Am just pointing out that there meny words with the same nikud or leters
    with different meanings[img:sites/default/files/old-images/123_5678.jpg]
  created: '2010-11-16 01:14:04'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "GoHebrew:\r\nHere is a good link to an old book called MASLUL\r\nmaybe it
    will help you understand some stuff\r\n\r\nhttp://hebrewbooks.org/pdfpager.aspx?req=7124&st=&pgnum=1&hilite="
  created: '2010-11-16 01:27:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "If 'Tevel Asur min Ha'tora' has a Biblical source, it is merely an 'asmachta'
    - a verse which alludes to this prohibition.\r\n\r\nA prohibition that has the
    severity of a Biblical command often does not have an actual verse associated
    with it. Rather, when our sages obm debated the matter's status, ie. a Biblical
    injunction, or a less severe Rabbinical ordinance, one sage may have suggested
    that the matter can be linked to a particular verse. This linkage is called an
    \"asmachta\".\r\n\r\n\"Asmachta\" is Aramaic, but comes from the Hebrew word,
    'somach', which means 'rests upon'. This is said in our daily prayers: \"[G-d
    is our] somach noflim\". So, too, this rule about tevel rests upon this verse.\r\n\r\nBut
    like every asmachta, the purpose of the verse is not in order to teach this matter,
    but merely to allude to it, and remind us of its Biblical status."
  created: '2010-11-16 01:36:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Tevel Like Chadash (new) Asur min Ha'Torah\r\n\r\nAre you talking about
    \u05D7\u05D3\u05E9 \u05D0\u05E1\u05D5\u05E8 \u05DE\u05DF \u05D4\u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4?
    the whole  prohibition to eat grain... Omer...\r\nwhich is based on Leviticus
    23:14 -- \r\n\u05D5\u05DC\u05D7\u05DD \u05D5\u05E7\u05DC\u05D9 \u05D5\u05DB\u05E8\u05DE\u05DC
    \u05DC\u05D0 \u05EA\u05D0\u05DB\u05DC\u05D5 \u05E2\u05D3 \u05E2\u05E6\u05DD \u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05D6\u05D4, \u05E2\u05D3 \u05D4\u05D1\u05D9\u05D0\u05DB\u05DD \u05D0\u05EA
    \u05E7\u05E8\u05D1\u05DF \u05D0\u05DC\u05D4\u05D9\u05DB\u05DD, \u05D7\u05E7\u05EA
    \u05E2\u05D5\u05DC\u05DD \u05DC\u05D3\u05E8\u05EA\u05D9\u05DB\u05DD \u05D1\u05DB\u05DC
    \u05DE\u05E9\u05D1\u05EA\u05D9\u05DB\u05DD\t\r\n\r\nAnd Seder Zeraim, Berakot
    7:1?  -- then  tevel is with tet, not tav\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 03:17:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A tenuah is a single letter with a nikkud. But it is the kind of nikud which
    makes the tenuah either a tenuah chazakah or a tenuah kalah.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to R' Zalman Henna, \r\n1) a kamatz gedol\r\n2) a chirik gedol\r\n3) a tzeirey
    (there is no tzeirey gedol or katan)\r\n4) a shuruk gedol\r\n5) a cholam (there
    is no cholam gedol or katan)\r\nis defined as a tenuah chazakah.\r\n\r\nAnd:\r\n1)
    a patach (there is no patach gedol or katan)\r\n2) a chirik katan\r\n3) a segol
    (there is no segol gedol or katan)\r\n4) a shuruk katan\r\n5) a kamatz chataf
    (is this a kamatz katan?)\r\nis defined as a tenuah ketanah.\r\n\r\nNote:\r\nIs
    a kamatz chataf a kamatz katan? Prof. Dotan asked regarding the symbol for a kamatz
    katan, \"Is this a kamatz chataf?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nEli brought a different delineation:\r\n1)
    a kamatz gedol\r\n2) a tzeirey - malay and chaser (with or without a yud following
    it)\r\n3) a chirik (only a malay --with a yud following it-- is gedol)\r\n4) a
    kubutz (in the middle of a word -- note: Chabad calls this a shuruk anywhere in
    the word)\r\n5) a cholam (there is no gedol or katan)\r\nis defined as a tenuah
    chazakah.\r\n1) a kamatz katan\r\n2) a segol\r\n3) a chirik chaser (without a
    yud following it)\r\n4) patach\r\n5) shuruk (note: Chabad calls this a shuruk
    anywhere in the word)\r\nis defined as a tenuah katanah.\r\n\r\nFirst, who Eli
    is your list attributed to?\r\n\r\nWhy is there a difference?\r\n\r\nThere are
    only one definition different between them:\r\nR' Zalman Henna:\r\n1) a tzeiey
    chaser (without a yud following it) is tenuah chazakah\r\n\r\nIs this why R' Zalman
    Henna assigns more shvahs to be a shvah-na?\r\n\r\nWhat is the relationship between
    a tenuah chazakah, a tenuah katanah, a shvah-na, and shvah-nach?\r\n\r\nWhat is
    the relationship between a tenuah chazakah, a tenuah katanah, a kamatz chazak,
    and kamatz katan?\r\n\r\nWhat is the relationship between a tenuah chazakah, a
    tenuah katanah, a dagesh chazak, and dagesh kal?\r\n\r\nEarlier, Eli you cited
    situations where a kamatz gadol/katan or dagesh chazak/kal caused a shvah to be
    na or nach? Can this be determined by the kind of tenuah which precedes it, or
    does it define the exceptions to the rule?\r\n\r\n(David, I getting to your part
    1, whhh!)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-16 14:55:19'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nYou are chasing your own tail. \r\n\r\n> I have acquired many
    books...\r\n\r\nsuch as? "
  created: '2010-11-16 20:07:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n>>  You are chasing your own tail.\r\n\r\nPlease explain.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    there any book that explains there terms?\r\n\r\n>> such as?\r\n\r\nDavidson.
    a great scholar - lousy writer.\r\nNon-Jewish scholars from over 100 years ago.
    In Arabic, Israelis say: \"\u05D7\u05E8\u05D4\". :)\r\nA few from R' Zalman Henna
    (at www.hebrewbooks.com, you search and download pdfs for free, coutesy of the
    huge research library of Chabad).\r\nI got Maslul there. He has others.\r\n\r\nDo
    I look at the fonts or read the books."
  created: '2010-11-16 21:18:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "read 'these', not 'there'\r\n\r\nnote:\r\nMaslul is not from R' Zalman Henna.\r\nR'
    Zalman Henna's books are logically organized and well written. This is a sign
    that he mastered the subject."
  created: '2010-11-17 14:41:43'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Please explain.\r\n\r\nIsrael,\r\n\r\nAre you moving forward or in circles?
    \  \r\n\r\nFor example, we are saying that (grammatically) there are 10 different
    kinds of ga'yot (Bible); you're saying 'I want to mark it' (like the sheva na
    etc etc -- your Biblical font). \r\nWhy do you want to mark it? which one? \r\nSee
    the sample --  2 ga'yot (meteg) + 3 shevas:\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GayaShva_3832.png]\r\n\r\nand
    the same thing with other issues..."
  created: '2010-11-17 19:32:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David, Eli, \r\n\r\nAmong the many things which I don't understand, these
    are things which I don't understand here.\r\n\r\n1. The term 'gayot', which from
    the context, seem to refer to the different forms of meteg (ie. how they are used.\r\n\r\nClarification:\r\n\r\nMarking
    up Hebrew text with additional symbols/glyphs for additional forms of nikkud and
    dagesh.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n \r\nBy doing so, distinctions between the shvah-na and
    shvah-nach, the kamatz katan and the kamatz gadol, can be made accurately in Volt,
    even though these distinctions are not present as Unicode values in the text.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, if a string of ordinary vocalized text contains:\r\na) hirik and meteg,
    and the next vowel is a shva, then the Volt algorithm can determine whether its
    a shvah-na or shvah-nach;\r\nb) patach, meteg, peh mudgash, and the next vowel
    is a shva, then the Volt algorithm can determine whether its a shvah-na or shvah-nach.\r\n\r\nBut
    if this string of ordinary vocalized text has no additional mark-ups, then no
    Volt algorithm can determine whether its a shvah-na or shvah-nach, based upon
    context alone.\r\n\r\nSo, the mark-ups enable the string of ordinary vocalized
    text to contain grammatical rules via the mark-ups, in the form of additional
    symbols/glyphs (for additional forms of nikkud and dagesh). As a result, the Volt
    algorithm can then determine whether its a shvah-na or shvah-nach, based upon
    the new context alone.\r\n\r\n\r\nIs this clear?"
  created: '2010-11-17 21:50:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Question:\r\n\r\nIf a tenuah gadolah or a tenuah katanah is merely defined
    by different nikkud, why not just attribute a nikud which causes a tenuah gadolah,
    a 'nikud chazak', or a nikud which causes a tenuah katanah, a 'nikud kal'?\r\n\r\nDoes
    a tenuah have an additional quality unique and unto itself?\r\n\r\n\r\nR' Zalman
    Henna, in his book, \"Yesod HaNikud - Foundation of the Nikud\", places \"Hebrew
    Letters - Grammar of the Hebrew Letters\" before \"Tenuahs - Grammar of the Tenuahs\".
    Are the Hebrew Letters of greater significances that the Tenuahs?"
  created: '2010-11-17 22:04:56'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "Every thing is clear, \r\nonly one problem, volt cannot deternine how to
    insert Metagim automaticly.\r\n\r\n>a) hirik and meteg, and the next vowel is
    a shva, then the Volt algorithm can determine whether its a shvah-na or shvah-nach;\r\n\r\nA
    Hiriq with a meteg and without a meteg are both sheva nach\r\n(Except some cases
    like \u05E8\u05E6\u05E4\u05EA in Megilat ester that the sheva is Na)\r\n\r\n>
    b) patach, meteg, peh mudgash, and the next vowel is a shva, then the Volt algorithm
    can determine whether its a shvah-na or shvah-nach.\r\n\r\nAlso a Patah with a
    meteg and with out are Sheva Nach\r\n\r\nTeamim determine more than meteg\r\nLike
    a taam mamaid ontop of a tenua gedola, makes the following sheva to nach"
  created: '2010-11-17 22:16:21'
- author:
    name: Typograph
    picture: 115034
  body: "> R' Zalman Henna, in his book, \"Yesod HaNikud - Foundation of the Nikud\",
    places \"Hebrew Letters - Grammar of the Hebrew Letters\" before \"Tenuahs - Grammar
    of the Tenuahs\". Are the Hebrew Letters of greater significances that the Tenuahs?\r\n\r\nThe
    nature of the sounds of whole words make tenuot not letters.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-17 22:20:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "So, a tenuah is a sound: a combination of a letter/consonant and a nikud/vowel.\r\n\r\nThe
    combination is chazak or kal, depending upon the nikud.\r\n\r\n1. Does a tenuah
    being chazak or kal then determine if the following shvah or kamatz is na or nach,
    katan or gadol?\r\n\r\n2. Does a tenuah being chazak or kal then determine if
    the following dagesh is chazak or kal?"
  created: '2010-11-17 22:30:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> The nature of the sounds of whole words make tenuot not letters.\r\n\r\nWords!\r\n\r\nSo,
    why is R' Zalman Henna or you defining particular nikud as tenuah chazakah or
    tenuah kalah, if a tenuah's status as either a tenuah chazakah or tenuah kalah
    from an entire word, which is made up of multiple letters and nikud combinations?\r\n\r\nIf
    a word has only one nikud that is chazak, does the entire word become a tenuah
    chazakah? Do we need more than one nikud that is chazak?"
  created: '2010-11-17 22:38:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "R' Zalman Henna quotes Ibn Ezra, Maimonides etc., which seems to imply that
    his words of Hebrew grammar are reflected in mainstream Torah literature as well.
    He also quotes the Radak and R' Eliyahu Bachur to imply that his thoughts are
    consistent with their teachings.\r\n\r\nMuch kabbalistic literature associates
    the meaning of our prayers to the kind of nikud used in those words of prayers,
    and are called, \"kavanot\"; this is recorded at length in the original Siddur
    of Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liady (not Tehillat Hashem). \r\n\r\nR' Zalman Henna
    seems to imply in Shar HaTenuah (ch. 2) that the very form of the Hebrew letters
    are related to the sounds they produce.\r\n\r\nHence, we see again here the Divine
    connection between the Hebrew letters and their significance and meaning.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 05:04:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  only one problem, volt cannot deternine how to insert Metagim automatically.\r\n\r\nMarking
    and/or inserting need metags is my last priority.\r\n\r\nFirst, I haven't seen
    even a word explain the kinds and conditions of the meteg, although your statements
    are raising red flags."
  created: '2010-11-18 05:44:41'
- author:
    name: Jewish Books
  body: '[[http://www.mysefer.com|Jewish Books]] http://www.mysefer.com has also got
    a great collection. I really liked your post and will be a regular visitor.'
  created: '2012-08-25 10:05:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: OK, back on track, after only a few years.
  created: '2012-12-14 05:11:59'
date: '2010-11-15 03:23:39'
node_type: forum
title: Hebrew Grammar (VOLT etc.)

---
