---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "From the Microsoft Typography website:\r\n\r\nRedmond - 2 November 2010\r\nMonitor
  on Psychology, the magazine of the American Psychological Association (APA), has
  published an interview with Kevin Larson, of Microsoft\u2019s Advanced Reading Technologies
  team, in the November 2010. The interview focuses on the interactions of typographers
  and psychologists in trying to improve onscreen reading. Monitor on Psychology is
  a general psychology magazine, sent to every member of the APA.\r\n\r\nHere is the
  url:\r\nhttp://www.apa.org/monitor/2010/11/read-onscreen.aspx"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "\"We\u2019ve also done some tests to see how quickly someone can read a \u201Cgood\u201D
    page layout versus a \u201Cbad\u201D page layout. The good layout used indentation
    to mark new paragraphs and larger text to identify a headline, while the bad one
    used underlining for headlines, which is an aesthetically poorer method of marking
    text as important, and no indentations. We were disappointed to find no differences
    in reading speed or comprehension.\"\r\n\r\nThis is disappointing indeed. Though,
    in his presentations, Kevin has added that readers indicate they \"preferred\"
    the good layout. I'd like to hear more about that."
  created: '2010-11-17 00:48:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I think this was the study that Kevin presented at ATypI Helsinki at which
    Professor Spiekermann commented that both layouts were bad. :-)
  created: '2010-11-17 01:07:31'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\"We were disappointed to find no differences in reading speed or comprehension.\"\r\n\r\nReading
    on paper? Reading on computer screens?"
  created: '2010-11-17 01:14:32'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The good layout versus bad layout studies were presented at ATypI Helsinki.
    There are also papers published in [[http://cid-0dc64d1eb4fb91be.office.live.com/self.aspx/Public/Larson%202006%20Measuring%20the%20Reading%20Experience.pdf|Typo
    Magazine]] and [[http://cid-0dc64d1eb4fb91be.office.live.com/self.aspx/Public/Larson%20Hazlett%20Chaparro%20Picard%202006%20measuring%20the%20aesthetics%20of%20reading.pdf|HCI
    conference proceedings]]. Hopefully these links to my skydrive work. I haven\u2019t
    used this before.\r\n\r\nThe Beier legibility studies mentioned in the article
    are published in the current issue of Information Design Journal, and deserve
    much attention.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-17 16:20:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kevin underestimates his influence.\r\nTo say that typographers believe people
    read word shapes rather than letters may have been true in the past, and may still
    be true at large, but it's nonetheless a bit of a generalization. \r\nI for one
    see no reason to doubt this recent scientific discovery, and I'm sure most Typophiles
    who have followed the readability debates here feel the same way.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    just because people read letters doesn't mean the shape of a word is unimportant,
    or that it is only important as mere aesthetics.\r\nPeople \"read\" the aesthetic
    qualities of typography, and this reading is quite important, even though such
    readability cannot be boiled down to a simple measurement of speed."
  created: '2010-11-17 16:38:09'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "The citation in <cite>Information Design Journal</cite> to which kevlar refers
    <a href=\"http://www.benjamins.com/cgi-bin/t_articles.cgi?bookid=IDJ%2018%3A2&artid=475139537\"
    title=\"Citation at Benjamins.com\">appears to be</a>:\r\n\r\n<strong>\u201CDesign
    improvements for frequently-misrecognized letters\u201D</strong>\r\nSofie Beier\r\nKevin
    Larson\r\nDOI: 10.1075/idj.18.2.03bei\r\nIn:\t <cite>Information Design Journal</cite>
    <strong>18</strong>:2. 2010. ca. 100 pp."
  created: '2010-11-17 19:37:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "\"We were disappointed to find no differences in reading speed or comprehension.\"\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't be disappointed by such a finding, but then I don't reckon speed and
    comprehension to be the only measures of a good reading experience. <a href=\"http://student.kfupm.edu.sa/s200560610/c.jpg\">In
    some circumstances, they're not even the primary measures.</a>"
  created: '2010-11-17 20:47:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201CReading psychologists care about what happens cognitively when people
    see fonts and words.\u201D \r\n\r\nWhat about what happens perceptually?"
  created: '2010-11-17 23:38:50'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> \u201CWhat about what happens perceptually?\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is one of
    many generalizations in the article, but I think it is generally accurate. There
    are 27 chapters in Snowling & Hulme\u2019s 2005 book <em>The Science of Reading</em>.
    None of the chapters are devoted to visual perception. Hopefully that will change
    in the future.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 02:38:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Another round of Grand Larsony: Word Theft;)\r\n\r\nIn order to believe in
    letter-only reading theory, one must accept that the part of humanity reading
    scripts without letters, isn't reading, and that the other part of humanity reading
    scripts with letters, invented words in cahoots with the space between words without
    a reason, no?\r\n\r\nIs this about screen reading? someone asks. We all of course
    should be praying for the higher resolution that'll end these studies. :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 14:28:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-11-18 14:54:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>In order to believe in letter-only reading theory, one must accept
    that the part of humanity reading scripts without letters, isn't reading...</em>\r\n\r\nEvidence
    of letterwise word recognition -- which is what we're talking about not 'letter-only
    reading' -- has no implications at all for word recognition in scripts that do
    not use letters, any more than a word-shape theory has implications for scripts,
    e.g. Thai, that do not visually demarcate word boundaries.\r\n\r\nWould it really
    surprise you to discover that people read different writing systems in different
    ways?\r\n\r\n<em>...and that the other part of humanity reading scripts with letters,
    invented words in cahoots with the space between words without a reason, no?</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    begging the question by assuming that the only possible reasons for spacing words
    are linked to word shape recognition and not compatible with letterwise recognition.\r\n\r\nVisual
    demarcation of word boundaries has testable benefits in cueing fixations, as seen
    in variation of saccade length relative to word shapes perceived in the parafovaea,
    i.e. word spaces enable us to anticipate the length and position of words, long
    before we're able to recognise what the words are. Visual demarcation of words
    also has testable benefits in letterwise word recognition, because knowing where
    a word ends and how many letters it contains enables the brain to exclude possible
    readings involving letters from adjacent words (and hence miss out on those humorous
    misreadings encountered in some URLs, e.g. therapistfinder, penisland, expertsexchange,
    whorepresents, etc.). So that's two benefits to word spacing that don't imply
    a role for word shape in word recognition and that are perfectly compatible with
    letterwise word recognition."
  created: '2010-11-18 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Is this about screen reading? </em>\r\n\r\nNo readability research on
    re-faxed real estate documents just yet."
  created: '2010-11-18 16:29:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "From a legibility perspective, the purpose of kerning is not the irrelevancy
    of making attractive word shapes.\r\nKerning supports the parallel letter recognition
    model, by evenly spacing letters so that the status and distinction of each is
    maximally asserted, disconnected from adjacent letters. Uneven spacing is noise.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 21:46:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the focus on letters in isolation is a mistake. [[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/11/02/reviving-caslon-part-2-readability-affability-authority/|Here,
    I discuss the process I used to try to make my Williams Caslon Text as readable
    as possible.]] \r\n\r\nAs you can see from the first graphic, there is more to
    a readable typeface than individual letters. This graphic I think shows that the
    eye-brain combination is putting some kind of grid over the words, and interpreting
    based on relationship of the marks on paper (or screen) to that. Much of readability
    is in how the letters in a style relate to one another, and hence to this mental
    grid. And this involves weight density and distribution, size of counters and
    relation to spacing and so on.\r\n\r\nThis is aside from the question that Peter
    and I have discussed with Kevin, whether the issue of whether we first identify
    letters, then do a look-up, or whether we identify words and phonemes as whole
    patterns. \r\n\r\nIn other words, whether or not Peter is right about whole patterns\u2014and
    I am inclined to believe there is some truth in his view\u2014I think even the
    one graphic shows that how the letters relate to the mental grid is a key issue.
    Because even on the letter by letter view \"interactive activation\", if I remember
    the term correctly, allows us to identify words when we don't have all the letters
    in a word identified. This means that one or two ambiguous characters\u2014such
    as I and l\u2014don't damage readability as much as you might think. \r\n\r\nThe
    \"matrix\" view puts a lot of readability in the color and rhythm of the text.
    And by the way this was Matthew Carter's view on Verdana, where he has said that
    the main advance was on the spacing, rather than simply the letter shapes themselves.
    \  "
  created: '2010-11-18 22:31:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill; <em>As you can see from the first graphic, there is more to a readable
    typeface than individual letters. This graphic I think shows that the eye-brain
    combination is putting some kind of grid over the words, and interpreting based
    on relationship of the marks on paper (or screen) to that.</em>\r\n\r\nWhile I'm
    not unsympathetic to your idea of gridded feature recognition, I think you are
    reading too much into your own graphic. What the graphic primarily demonstrates
    to me is that it is hard to read unconventional use of letters that do not correspond
    to the norms of the writing system. If you took out the uppercase letters and
    varied only the weight and style of the letters, then I think you would have something
    more interesting, but with weight differences you would be affecting the spatial
    frequency as well as a presumed perceptual grid, so perhaps the better test of
    the latter would be similarly weighted combinations of <em>r</em>om<em>a</em>n
    a<em>nd</em> i<em>t</em>a<em>l</em>ic l<em>e</em>t<em>t</em>e<em>r</em>s."
  created: '2010-11-18 23:34:21'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "William, Williams Caslon is lovely and your paper about its creation was
    enjoyable to read. Congratulations.\r\n\r\nThe components that you identified
    as important for good readability all seem quite sensible and should be accounted
    for in a complete model of word recognition: good rhythm, even color, stroke ratio,
    and avoiding the picket fence. I think these could be compatible with parallel
    letter recognition models. Good rhythm and even color in particular seem to relate
    to vision psychologists' concept of spatial frequency. Pelli has shown that we
    tune to particular spatial frequencies while reading, and that tuning changes
    by the font that we are reading. If every letter is from a different font or has
    irregular letter spacing, then it won't be possible to tune to a spatial frequency.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 03:18:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: http://typographyshop.com/george_lois_great_ideas_mens_t-shirt.html
  created: '2010-11-19 04:36:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">hard to read unconventional use of letters that do not correspond to the
    norms of the writing system.\r\n\r\nJohn, why should unconventional use of letters
    be such a problem, if all of the letters make easily readable words when they
    are with their stylistic mates? Why should any training at all be needed? Because
    we have familiarity with all the letter forms, there must be *more* involved in
    \"training\" the mind to read words than simply familiarity with individual letters,
    and which letters go to make up a word with a specific meaning.\r\n\r\nI would
    also guess that it would be harder to train readers of another script, who didn't
    know roman script, to read this kind of text than text which keeps to its stylistic
    mates only. That would show that not only is there \"more\" than what is involved
    in isolated letter recognition, but that some mixtures are inherently more difficult
    for the brain to handle. I also doubt that even with training we could ever read
    such text with the ease of standard text faces. I am guessing that something fundamental
    in our visual decoding apparatus is being stressed.   \r\n\r\nI mixed all of the
    variations\u2014regular and bold, caps and lower case, roman and italic, to maximize
    the disruption of word recognition. That makes the graphic a refutation of the
    idea that ability to quickly identify individual letters, and a quickly accessible
    knowledge of spelling is the whole story. That's all that I'm claiming is demonstrated.
    \ \r\n\r\nMy theory of a \"matrix\" is a vague model, and not a well worked out
    theory of the \"more.\" I suspect that this portion of reading, the portion that
    is not in recognition of individual shapes by themselves, is a bigger area for
    making type more readable than the area of making Latin letters more highly differentiated
    for isolated quick recognition. Of course there are other issues such as resolution,
    figure-ground contrast, back-lighting of screens, etc. that are also important.
    \r\n\r\nKevin, thanks for the kind words. \r\n\r\nI agree with you that my graphics
    and analysis are all compatible with a parallel letter recognition model. What
    I don't think they are compatible with is holding that legibility of individual
    letters in isolation\u2014ability to differentiate them quickly and reliably\u2014is
    the same thing as readability\u2014comfort in reading words. The importance of
    this other dimension of readability is also why I am skeptical that there is much
    to be gained in increasing differentiation of letters in the Latin alphabet, which
    are highly differentiated already, especially in stressed, serifed faces.\r\n\r\nIn
    the Hebrew alphabet, there are much more serious problems of differentiation.
    The scripts of Eliyahu Koren, recently discussed in the \"Hebrew\" section here,
    do increase differentiation of Hebrew letters in a way that remains aesthetically
    attractive, and are felt by many native readers to increase readability.    "
  created: '2010-11-19 04:42:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, that saying is very clever, but it can be used in defense of complete
    BS!\r\n\r\nGreat moral and religious ideas are not so testable, but great *scientific*
    ideas are. That's what makes them scientific, in the view of my old teacher Popper
    at any rate. \u2014A little off the track but I was very happy to see that Popper's
    ideas on science were used to defeat in court the bogus claims of the \"intelligent
    design\" people.  "
  created: '2010-11-19 04:53:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So called scientific tests \"can be used in defense of complete BS!\" just
    as well. The NRA has a bunch of \"data\" on guns stopping crimes they would like
    you to read :-)\r\nScience is not always \"Good Science\" so we have to scrutinize
    it completely and not put scientists on a level with deity as is too often done.\r\nI
    have also seen when marketing people work their magic with \"focus\" group testing
    ( I might change the spelling a bit replacing an \"o\" with a \"u\" on that one.)
    Lois was an advertising guy and I am sure he was referring to marketing shell
    games when he talked about testing and made that quote.\r\nYes, Bill, there are
    'bogus claims of the \"intelligent design\" people' and bogus claims of every
    other kind of people including scientists.  All I am saying is that nobody should
    get a free pass just because they hang a shingle on their door which says \"scientist\"
    or \"clergy\" or \"design professional\".  Yes w know there is peer review and
    tests repeated and then results overturned after a few years. The problem is,
    nobody erases the errant conclusions people have drawn from the data. Keep a healthy
    amount of doubt when you listen to any expert.  The real scientists will welcome
    the skepticism and only the charlatans will cry fowl."
  created: '2010-11-19 05:20:09'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> Keep a healthy amount of doubt when you listen to any expert.\r\n\r\nIn
    6 years as a member of typophile, I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever made a statement
    that someone didn\u2019t call BS. There appears to be plenty of healthy skepticism
    of scientists here. On the other hand, I wonder how often statements from Bringhurst
    or the other great typographers are challenged?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 06:07:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Boom!
  created: '2010-11-19 06:46:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am happy challenge Bringhurst and all exacters of rules and methods and
    I know others do as well. It is like AP style or Strunk and White.  You can say
    it fits the style according to Bringhurst or according to Carson and say \"it
    is in the book\" therefore you have done a proper job by some other person's standards.
    \ It might still be very pedestrian typography. An insecure person might always
    do it according to \"the book\" so they have some authority to point to when questioned.
    You don't always need a manual.  I would rather someone try a bunch of things
    and make mistakes because they will learn from that.  Following a cookbook never
    made a chef.\r\n\r\nI admire Kevin for at least coming back for more and listening
    to our collective flacking. He takes what he can and tries again and comes back
    for more.  A lesser person might just talk only to his colleagues and ignore any
    questioning of their work from the unwashed proletariat. ;-)"
  created: '2010-11-19 09:43:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>Would it really surprise you to discover that people read different writing
    systems in different ways?\r\n\r\nIn a way, Yes. We are all trying to write so
    the letters go away. Would it surprise you to discover that people read one writing
    system in different ways?\r\n\r\nThe common thread here though is that for some
    reason, Kevlar \"pits\" the \"typographers\" against the \"psychologists.\" But
    before anyone forgets, it is the 'minor' destruction of writing on PC screens
    by the software behind them, that has brought on this \"intensity\" of questions
    about reading.\r\n\r\nKL> In 6 years as a member of typophile, I don\u2019t think
    I\u2019ve ever made a statement that someone didn\u2019t call BS. \r\n\r\nThat's
    BS! ;)\r\n\r\nThe other thing to note, is that until this destructive phase of
    writing is passed Bringhurst and all such gospel SHOULD be substantially rewritten
    to be relevant to typography on the web. \r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 13:22:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The problem is, nobody erases the errant conclusions people have drawn from
    the data. \r\n\r\nThat's not true within science. You won't read any articles
    defending Phlogiston in current science journals. Or for that matter questioning
    the reality of evolution. Politicians, on the other hand will get up and blather
    and contradict well tested solutions\u2014with no contrary evidence or argument.
    \ \r\n\r\nThe important thing is that within science people do feel the need to
    address experimental evidence. I'm not saying that there is no poor science; there
    is plenty of that. But the scientific standard of respect for observation and
    experiment creates a mechanism of self-correction, of reducing errors of science
    that other fields unfortunately lack. \r\n\r\nI have often disagreed with Kevin
    here, but I've never seen him spouting BS, because he does respect the results
    of observations and experiment. The reality is that it is very hard to get decisive
    answers from nature, but when they do happen, they stick."
  created: '2010-11-19 13:53:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "What Denis Pelli found was that the spatial frequency channel that is used
    is centered at the frequency of stroke-level information \u2014 not letters. An
    explicit presupposition of parallel letter recognition models is the channeling
    of feature information into independent slots. This is slot-processing. In well-set
    pages of type we find narrow phase alignment. On the basis of gestalt principles
    it seems likely that narrow phase alignment is antagonistic to slot-processing.
    What adherents of parallel letter recognition models might then need to explain,
    but haven\u2018t, is how, under conditions of narrow phase alignment, slot-processing
    ever gets off the ground.\r\n\r\nThe successes of the interactive-activation account
    of how perceptual processing in reading works is really what solidified the case
    for the parallel recognition model of word recognition. When faced with a spacing
    effect qualified scientists resorted to ad hocery. In recent years other types
    of networks have been explored in some domains, including speech perception. These
    networks rely on notions like non-independance or interfacilitation, and supercapcity.
    Supercapacity and interfacilitation could illuminate the word-superiority effect,
    and why, in reading there is an \u201Cinhibition of incipient recognition for
    letters,\u201D to quote Edmund Burke Huey.\r\n\r\nWhen I explained my \u2018single-tiered,
    intrinsic integration, matrix resonance\u2019* alternative recently to Jay McCelland,
    one of the architects of the interactive-activation scheme, his response was:
    If I had but world enough and time I might join you in your quest. I don\u2019t
    think of this as endorsement, but I do think of it as a recognition that there
    is a promising and attractive alternative that ought to be pursued.\r\n\r\nIn
    the Monitor on Psychology interview Kevin says \u201Cresearch from reading psychologists
    suggests...\u201D Wouldn't scientific candor dictate some stronger recognition
    that the jury is still out.\r\n\r\n* I used this phrase in my TypeCon Atlanta
    presentation. (The term matrix resonance is a favourite of Bill\u2018s but also
    occurs in the cognitive scientific literature on neural network coding. My source
    for the other two terms is the cognitive scientific literature as well)"
  created: '2010-11-19 14:55:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Peter that there are promising alternatives to the \"parallel
    processing with interactive activation\" views of reading, the current \"orthodoxy\".
    And I think they are worth pursuing scientifically. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2010-11-19 15:56:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I mixed all of the variations\u2014regular and bold, caps and lower
    case, roman and italic, to maximize the disruption of word recognition. That makes
    the graphic a refutation of the idea that ability to quickly identify individual
    letters, and a quickly accessible knowledge of spelling is the whole story. That's
    all that I'm claiming is demonstrated.</em>\r\n\r\nBut has anyone ever claimed
    that ability to quickly identify individual letters <em>independent of their conventional
    use within the writing system</em> is the whole story?\r\n\r\nWriting systems
    are, well, systems, and reading is an activity that takes place within the normative
    contexts provided by those systems (including the sub-system norms of particular
    styles). If you change the normative contexts, e.g. by mixing letters from different
    styles or breaking normal rules about the use of bicameral forms, then it doesn't
    surprise me at all that word recognition is slowed.\r\n\r\nFurther, you wrote
    above: <em>This graphic I think shows that the eye-brain combination is putting
    some kind of grid over the words, and interpreting based on relationship of the
    marks on paper (or screen) to that.</em> \r\n\r\nThis is very clearly claiming
    that more is demonstrated than a refutation that quick letter recognition is the
    whole story: you claimed that the graphic showed that a particular perceptual
    and cognitive mechanism is in use during reading, and I don't think it does. You
    disrupted normative reading context in at least three different ways in the illustration
    -- case, style, slant --, making it impossible to isolate factors in a way that
    would imply inhibition of a particular mechanism."
  created: '2010-11-19 17:03:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I said \"some kind of grid\". That is not very specific. What I mean
    is that some kind of mental template that uses the spatial relation of marks to
    one another within the word is operating. That I do think is a fair conclusion.
    If you have an alternative theory, I'd be happy to hear it. \r\n\r\nI strongly
    suspect that there is a mental grid eg in the case of Chinese. That's because
    you learn to write Chinese characters on a grid! I'm also not saying that the
    grid is all inborn. I'm sure a lot of it is learned, or created in the learning
    process. \r\n\r\n>But has anyone ever claimed that ability to quickly identify
    individual letters independent of their conventional use within the writing system
    is the whole story?\r\n\r\nWell, denying the validity of any distinction between
    legibility and readability has the consequence that the distinguishably of individual
    letters is the whole story of readability. And I may not be remembering correctly,
    but I thought you and Kevin did deny the usefulness of the distinction. The unimportance
    of these other factors seems to me a consequence of the denial. And Kevin refers
    to a study on the distinguishably of individual letters, which I don't think is
    much of an issue with latin script. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying you were consistent
    :) "
  created: '2010-11-19 17:24:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The results of social science experiments are always open to vastly different
    \"readings\", i.e. interpretations.\r\n\r\nReading is a social phenomenon.\r\nYet
    it seems to me that reading researchers are under the illusion they are investigating
    a basic physiological process, believing that letters are not cultural artefacts,
    merely natural shapes, the grammatical content of which can be deciphered at different
    speeds, and that's all there is.\r\n\r\nReading science can reveal how we read,
    but as soon as it gets into passing typographic judgement, it is nothing but market
    research, or at worst banal scientism.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 17:40:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, reading involves physiology of the eye, psychology\u2014how the brain
    works in perception and cognition\u2014AND is a social phenomenon.\r\n\r\nAre
    you denying the value of studying the first two?  "
  created: '2010-11-19 17:59:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Whatever gives you that idea?
  created: '2010-11-19 18:20:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"That's not true within science.\"\r\nIt may be less true in science, but
    that is not the point.  The problem is that errant reaction to interpretations
    by scientists is acted upon by the doers and gatekeepers of the world, not the
    scientists.  Scientists enquire, theorize, test and publish what they think is
    in evidence. They may be best intentioned and even accurate in their data-collection
    but that does not make a dent in what the errant doers do with that information.
    The doers are people who make stuff, decide stuff, and disparage stuff; politicians
    and government officials, the legal system bureaucrats, school boards, teachers,
    students, marketing people, editors, graphic designers, clients, etc. They don't
    always \"get the memo\" that a certain study has been found misleading or new
    information about it has come to light. They just carry on either being naive
    and unaware or simply choose the study which best props up their own bias. They
    go on armed with the words \"Scientists say\" or \"I read that\" without question.
    It is not what scientists  SAY, it is what they are REPORTED to have said that
    causes the problem. Doers don't talk to scientists, they talk to themselves, their
    neighbors, and listen to their media (be it Fox News or MSNBC, Rush Limbaugh,
    The Group, or Type Radio.)  Years ago the psychiatric wisdom was that Autism was
    caused by unloving mothers.   Psychiatric theorists and most laymen know now that
    that is not true. That does not help the mothers of Autistic children who ever
    heard the old mistaken tales even once from \"Aunt Flo\" or their neighbors pet
    sitter. \r\nAll I am saying is have a healthy skepticism of every source.  We
    still read articles about how well Helvetica does in readability.\r\n\r\n\"That's
    BS! ;)\"\r\n\r\nI am proud to say I have now joined the elite company of Raymond
    Lois, Kevin Larson, and David Berlow and been told online: That's BS!.  At least
    people are skeptical of what I say--now they just need to be just as skeptical
    of what they think scientists perhaps might possibly be saying ( by way of Dr
    Phil or the Washington Times).\r\n\r\nChris That's BS!"
  created: '2010-11-19 18:50:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is brilliant:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Bullshit-Harry-G-Frankfurt/dp/0691122946\r\n\r\nBasically,
    he argues that BS is neither true not false.\r\nSo it's BS to say that Arial is
    more readable than Times, because, yes it may be in some instances, but not in
    others.\r\nAnd that is why scientific pronouncements on the general readability
    of fonts vis-a-vis one another are BS."
  created: '2010-11-19 18:58:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Bullshit makes good fertilizer. It provides food for thought and empirical
    investigation and hence the growth of a discipline.
  created: '2010-11-19 22:52:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I'm afraid that what impacts on public consciousness is arguments
    over statistical tests\u2014which are very hard to get anything conclusive on\u2014or
    sciences that are weak (clinical psychology) or barely scientific at all (economics).
    But what is taken for granted is the greatest advance in the history of humanity,
    which is due to science. I am typing on a computer, whose results can be seen
    within seconds all over the world, and looking through reading glasses. All this
    is based on really solid science, which we all take for granted. In traditional
    societies one of ten women die in child birth, today death in childbirth is very
    rare in wealthy countries. And in our lifetime, the life expectancy has gone up
    considerably, because of hard science, not debates over statistics. \r\n\r\nYour
    complaints about weak and bad science are fully justified, but the glorious advances
    of science are none the less true. And they are based on a method that is fundamentally
    honest in respecting real observation and experiment, while drawing on the heights
    of human imagination and ingenuity in creating new theories. The dark side is
    there, but so is the bright.    "
  created: '2010-11-19 23:07:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>And I may not be remembering correctly, but I thought you and Kevin
    did deny the usefulness of the distinction [between legibility and readability].</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    never denied the usefulness of the distinction, and I've even tried to convince
    Kevin that the terminological distinction is useful in discussing <em>possible</em>
    functional distinctions. But I also think that the distinction is largely instinctive
    -- i.e. we have tended to proceed from usefulness of the terminological distinction
    to the assumption that there is a functional distinction -- and a lot of question
    begging takes place as a result of that.\r\n\r\nRe. the mental grid, I am not
    disagreeing with your theory; I am disagreeing with the claim that your graphic
    provides evidence that supports the theory. In the first place because your graphic
    illustrates how word recognition can be retarded, not how it is normally achieved,
    and in the second place because you disrupted word recognition in multiple ways
    from which it is impossible to isolate a particular cause for the retardation.
    Yes, disruption of a grid might account for the retardation, but so might any
    one of the disruptions of the sub-system norms of the writing system, or disruption
    of spatial frequency, or simply the fact that the brain is too busy thinking 'That
    looks weird' to devote sufficient attention to word recognition.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 23:58:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but the glorious advances of science are none the less true.\"\r\n\r\nI
    have never said they were not true.  Just because science has had many successes,
    like the computer, does not mean we should not question everything it says. Science
    also made nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons but that does not mean we
    reject everything they have said either. There even have been good things come
    of nuclear science like medicine and alternativve energy. \"It is an ill wind...\"\r\nAlso,
    it is much easier to verify physical science than it is social or behavioral science.
    Yes, we can count eye regressions but what we get from the data is fuzzier than
    a Chesure Cat and just might possibly sorta kinda almost be Bullshit.\r\n\r\nWe
    should neither condemn scientists nor genuflect at their feet in awe and admiration.
    We should question and verify before we elevate them to deity."
  created: '2010-11-20 00:39:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'John, as long as there is a difference between letter identification (which
    is a form of categorical perception) and visual word-form resolution (aka word
    recognition) there is going to be warrent for a distinction. It does not matter
    to what extent ease of categorical perception of the graphemic components of the
    word in a given font turns out to be a determinant of ease of visual word-form
    resolution in the perceptual processing of actual texts. '
  created: '2010-11-20 19:14:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Well okay then! I'll axe the question this way; is reading research a hot
    topic these daze because; \r\nA. Readers don't read very well, suddenly for no
    apparent reason\r\nB. Computers don't write very well because OS vendors are cheapskates\r\nC.\"Typographers\"
    and psychologists don't agree on word vs letter recognition.\r\n\r\nTake your
    time on this one, getting the wrong answer can make you lots of friends, while
    actually facing up to the right answer however... "
  created: '2010-11-21 11:58:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A little more on scientific method. \r\n\r\n>I think you are reading too
    much into your own graphic.\r\n\r\nJohn, any theory \"reads too much\" into results
    of observation and experiment. That is because the data is finite, and theories
    universal. As Popper said, scientific theories are always conjectures that go
    beyond the data. The goal is to have imaginative explanations for the data, and
    then test them. \r\n\r\nThe reason for my conclusion is that some kind of \"matrix\"
    is the only way I see of *explaining* the data. \u2014In this case the data is
    the difficulty of reading a word composed of many different letters which are
    legible on their on. Alternative explanations, or more refined versions of my
    vague model, would help to test, and to enlighten so I am all in favor of that.
    \r\n\r\nI agree with you that any good theory would have to account for how reading
    changes with each variation alone: mixed case, mixed style (italic and roman),
    and mixed weight. The point of the graphic is to refute the idea that the clarity
    and unambiguity of individual letters is the only important factor in readability.
    That's a starting point. \r\n\r\nChris, genuflecting is not my thing, as you know
    :) \r\n\r\nI am all in favor of looking at scientific claims critically, and there
    is a lot of weak and bad science out there, and misleading claims of \"scientific
    authority\" for whatever view a person is a partisan of. But I am also in favor
    of recognizing the power and even the moral goodness of scientific method. The
    cure for bad science is good science, not no science. That is the main point I
    am trying to make.  \r\n\r\nGood science is having the courage to make theories
    testable\u2014so specific that they are vulnerable to possible refutation by observation
    and experiment. And then it is being honest about the relations of the theory
    and the data. There is a courage and honesty in good scientific method, and it
    is a force for progress of humanity. I hear very often criticism of weak and bad
    science, but I don't hear much public understanding and appreciation for good
    and great science. Depreciation of scientific method is to me a blow against honesty
    and progress for humanity.   "
  created: '2010-11-21 14:48:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Depreciation of scientific method\"\r\n\r\nThis will be my last post on
    this subject, since the circle has now been orbited the requisite 10,000 times.
    I am not now or never have been deprecating the scientific method. My brother,
    brother-in-law, and Both my kids are scientists. (julian is in Padua today giving
    a paper on seismology.) I am complaining about misuse of conclusions based on
    untested theory. \"As Popper said, scientific theories are always conjectures
    that go beyond the data.\"  Question the conjectures until they are proven or
    disproven.\r\n\r\nI am happy to have science! some of my best friends are scientists,
    Scientists are people, they make mistakes and are misquoted too.\r\n\r\nHappy
    Chanuchah, Bill!"
  created: '2010-11-21 16:11:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Chris! \r\n\r\nThe underlying issue here is whether scientific research
    in reading holds any promise to give insights that are valuable for readers and
    type designers. I feel that it does hold promise, and that feeling is not based
    so much on success so far in reading research, but on the general promise and
    success of scientific research in other fields. "
  created: '2010-11-21 16:22:28'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"I wonder how often statements from Bringhurst or the other great typographers
    are challenged?\"</em>\r\n\r\nTo summarize unscientifically, Bringhurst can kiss
    my egalitarian ass.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nrich\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-21 17:24:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Bringhurst can kiss my egalitarian ass.\"\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2010-11-21 17:46:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I didn't object to you reading too much into data, I objected to you
    reading too much into a picture that you had made, and I pointed out that the
    picture didn't demonstrate what you claimed that it demonstrated because there
    are at least three different explanations for retardation of word recognition
    potentially at play in the picture, and hence you can't reliably ascribe the cause
    of retardation to disruption of a mental grid.\r\n\r\nFurther, the result of a
    simple experiment that I conducted -- mixing together only roman and sloped roman
    forms within a word, i.e. varying only the slant angle to disrupt the presumed
    mental grid (rather than varying style, case, weight and other factors as in your
    illustration) -- was that word recognition was much less retarded than in your
    example. This leads me to conclude that while there may be a mental grid on which
    the features of letters are perceived, simply shifting some features off that
    grid by varying the letter slant does not retard word recognition to the same
    degree that a combination of other factors will that more grievously depart from
    the learned, conventional sub-system norms of the writing system, e.g. mixing
    letters of different cases.\r\n\r\n[With regard to the latter, I think it is important
    to remember that the case distinction is used in English and other bicameral writing
    systems as a <em>grammatical</em> cue, i.e. it provides information about the
    structure of text and the kind of words we are looking at. Mixing uppercase letters
    unconventionally into a word doesn't only disrupt the visual pattern and spatial
    frequency of the word as it would conventionally be read, but also disrupts the
    our expectation of the normal role of uppercase letters.]"
  created: '2010-11-22 15:47:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, putting a grid over the word and matrix resonance might profitably
    be thought of as two different things. The grid put over words comes from how
    the permutations inherent in the script system implement cartesian space. Roman
    versus italic; capitals versus lower case. Lower case uses the x-height axis in
    a way capitals don\u2018t understand. Italics use the y-dimension differently
    than roman by giving it a slant. When these different ways are intermixed in a
    single word (and compounded with differences in weight \u2014 which translates
    into salience and equals cue-value), matrix resonance becomes difficult to achieve,
    because the clumps of information are out of synch with each other \u2014 they\u2018re
    on different registers, or in different keys as it were. A kind of stressed parallel
    letter recognition becomes the only perceptual processing option.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I think this knocks out of the word-recognitional equation is trans-graphemic
    interfacilitation at the role-unit level. This is a kind of neurophysical cross-talk
    across letter boundaries while processing letter-parts across the entire word.
    Edmund Burke Huey\u2019s simultaneous coactivation of letter parts. This is essential
    for speed, comfort and especially transparency.\r\n\r\nThis, by the way is one
    of the reasons why, though I find Denis Pelli and Kathryn Tillman\u2019s data
    interesting, I don't accept the conclusions of their triple dissociation study.
    I don't buy the analysis of wht the various manipulations knock out. Part of the
    reason for this is that we have different functional ontologies of reading."
  created: '2010-11-23 15:40:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well, I probably shouldn't have used the word \"grid\", because I think that
    it exists but is only part of the story. The term \"matrix\", which I used in
    my TypeCon talk, and Peter says is also in the psychological literature, is more
    general and better. Grid seems to imply that the whole story is whether something
    falls on or off the grid. And I think a lot more is involved, such as weights,
    angles, etc.\r\n\r\nMy slide I think shows that a mental \"matrix\" is operating
    and a grid, or several grids are only part of it.  \r\n\r\nOne comparison is enlightening
    here: I have seen in several places that there are more connections in the human
    brain than stars in the universe. Even though vision is only one part of the brain,
    it is clear that we are dealing with a hugely complex and highly adaptable system
    for pattern recognition.\r\n\r\nPartly because of the brain's pattern recognition
    power, I doubt that we fail to use pattern information from across more than one
    letter when recognizing a word, as Peter has argued.  "
  created: '2010-11-23 16:25:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Bill, parallel letter recognition can be thought of as relying on matrix resonance.
    Except it hypothesizes two levels of resonance, one keyed to letters and the other
    to orthographic shape.
  created: '2010-11-23 17:11:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@enne_son: Citation for Pelli and Tillman please?'
  created: '2010-11-23 17:37:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'see: http://www.plosone.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0000680'
  created: '2010-11-23 17:44:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Peter, I think from the examples I gave that there must be at least one more
    matrix involved: it is resolving the words into letters, or the mass of letters
    as a pattern into words, as you hold. I don''t think identifying letters within
    a word is a trivial process to do so quickly. My suspicion, as I have said earlier,
    it that a "filtering" process for both words and letters is done simultaneously,
    and whichever wins the race to the semantic part of the brain wins.   '
  created: '2010-11-23 21:17:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, you lose me in your first two sentences.\r\n\r\nAs for the third, I
    think the visual cortex is biased to select the most efficient route. It's not
    a matter of which process gets there first. I think the letter process is a phase
    in learning to read, but once the word is learned there is a there is a remapping
    in role unit terms. I think the perceptual psychophysics of a well-spaced word
    is such that the phase alignment that it puts in place becomes the catalyst for
    the remapping. After this the only place the letter route is really used is when
    new or unfamiliar words are encountered or disturbance caused by things like alternating
    case frustrate access to the more elemental role-unit mapping. "
  created: '2010-11-24 00:17:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I'm with you with regard to the human facility for pattern recognition,
    but this is why, contra your last post, I think that identifying the learned pattern
    of letters within a word is, if not trivial in terms of the perceptual and cognitive
    processing involved, something most humans are likely to be very good at. Indeed,
    pattern recognition is properly understood as pattern isolation, i.e. identifying
    familiar patterns within a crowded context.\r\n\r\nWith regard to Peter's remapping
    of individual letter recognition to role unit recognition, I think it very likely
    that as we gain experience in reading we start to recognise the patterns caused
    by combinations of letters, especially frequent combinations and, I suspect, orthographically
    significant combinations, i.e. digraphs or diphthongs. But I'm doubtful if these
    super-letter patterns ever exceed two or three letters in length, and I think
    were faced with something like a perceptual equivalent of the Arabic ligature
    problem: if we process a pair of letters as a unit, in a sequence of three letters
    do we process the first two or the second two? or if we process a triplet of letters
    as a unit, in a sequence of four letters do we process the first three or the
    last three? or do we instead process the first two and the second two? or what
    about the middle two?\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that in terms of accuracy relative
    to efficiency, there are likely to be diminishing returns in trying to recognise
    units greater than individual letters which remain, after all, the most reliable
    unit of recognition, the one we can fall back on. The net gain in efficiency may
    make such super-letter pattern recognition worth while to a point, but I wonder
    just how far that point is from letterwise word recognition?"
  created: '2010-11-24 01:44:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, the capacity gains will have to be assessed by network modeling. Echoing
    James Townsend, from the Cognitive Modeling Training Program in the Department
    of Psychological and Brain Science of the University of Indiana in a letter to
    me, I think they will be competitive until the phase alignment problem \u2014
    if it can be quantified \u2014 is factored in. Then, I expect, there will be some
    clear differentiation.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see a reason to restrict the amount
    of role-unit information the system can form vectors over to the amount contained
    in two or three letters. Is the Arabic ligature problem really real?\r\n\r\nThere
    are probably bottom-up and top-down constraints. The bottom up constraint is probably
    defined by the width of the individual reader\u2019s uncrowded span (Denis Pelli
    again), which varies. If I remember correctly, it can vary from 5 to 7 letters.\r\n\r\nThe
    top-down constraints are probably of several different orders. Letter vectors
    form over one or more connected or intersecting role-units. You mentioned digraphs
    and diphthongs, both of which map to phonologically distinctive complexes. What's
    to stop them from forming over morphemes where lexicality is the driving force
    in the vectorization?"
  created: '2010-11-24 04:05:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree that humans are very good at identifying letters. Letters are
    designed to be easy to recognize. But given that our capacity is so much greater,
    why would our brains forgo the efficiency of recognizing \"the\" as a whole pattern,
    and put a semantic association with that? It isn't any more complex than many
    Chinese root characters, so why not take advantage of that? That's my plausibility
    argument for Peter's view.\r\n\r\nBy the way, Peter, does \"interactive activation\"
    theory posit a look-up on the semantic level, or the \"matrix resonance\" I find
    plausible?   "
  created: '2010-11-24 04:36:15'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I don\u2019t fully understand the conversation at the moment, but it did
    make me think of these three papers on font tuning. Font tuning appears to be
    a perceptual process that allows readers to recognizing letters or words faster
    when they are in the same font that they last looked at. This effect only seems
    to be true for native readers of an orthography.\r\n\r\nSanocki, T. (1988). \u2018Font
    Regularity Constraints on the Process of Letter Recognition\u2019, Journal of
    Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 14(3), 472-480.\r\n\r\nGauthier,
    I., Wong, A.C., Hayward, W.G., Cheung, O.S. (2006). Font tuning associated with
    expertise in letter perception. Perception, 35(4), 541-559.\r\n\r\nWalker, P.
    (2008). Font tuning: A review and new experimental evidence. Visual Cognition,
    16, 1022-1058.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-24 08:06:58'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David, I think you are suggesting that reading research is only a topic right
    now because of the poor state of on-screen reading, and if screen densities suddenly
    improved than the topic would disappear.\r\n\r\nI think you are partially right.
    It\u2019s certainly true that my job at Microsoft exists because of the poor state
    of on-screen reading, and a lot of what I focus on has to do with dealing with
    the problem of poor screen density.\r\n\r\nBut reading research is a bigger field
    than you might imagine with several conferences and journals dedicated exclusively
    to such research, including specialized conferences for reading education, eye
    movement studies, and dyslexia. Very few of the researchers at these conferences
    care at all about the density differences between print and on-screen. For some,
    having a good model of word recognition is important because it provides information
    about how to teach a child to read. Interestingly, the two best predictors for
    a pre-reader becoming a successful reader within the next year are knowledge of
    letter names and phonemic awareness, being able to manipulate the sounds of language.
    \r\n\r\nIn addition to reading research being interesting because learning how
    the brain works is intrinsically interesting, and because it is useful for learning
    how to teach reading, I will also bet that reading research will eventually improve
    some aspect of print typography."
  created: '2010-11-24 09:04:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Kevin, I\u2018m not all that familiar with the font-tuning literature. But
    from what I\u2018ve gathered, I\u2018d guess phase alignment and implementation
    of cartesian space play a role in this. I include phase alignment, because the
    peak frequency in the x-dimension of reading shifts position from font to font,
    as does the narrowness of the alignment.\r\n\r\nBill, I\u2018m not sure what \u2018doing
    a look-up on the semantic level\u2019 might mean in neurophysical / neurobiological
    / neural-network terms. I don\u2018t see that the interactive activation account
    posits either a look-up or matrix resonance, unless you want to think of node-activation
    as a type of matrix resonance, which is plausible. \r\n\r\nI see three classes
    of schemes:\r\nFeed-forward node-activation schemes with feedback loops; matrix
    resonance schemes which posit vector-placement over networks of statements about
    identity, connection and location; trace-signature recognition schemes. If recognition
    manifests itself neurobiologically as a cascading series of neuro-transmissional
    events, than specific role units, and the registration of their relations in letters,
    bigrams, diphthongs and words can become uniquely associated with a particular
    series of such events. The series of events, being unique to the role-unit, etc.,
    can than be said to have a trace signature.\r\n\r\nI hope readers can find some
    of this illuminating, rather than just confusing. Those conspiring to sort out
    the perceptual and cognitive mechanics of reading in today\u2018s environment
    might benefit from this."
  created: '2010-11-24 14:35:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Kevin:<em> I will also bet that reading research will eventually improve
    some aspect of print typography.</em>\r\n\r\nBS has been mentioned in this thread,
    and making a wager you can't lose (\"eventually\" will outlast all bettors) qualifies
    as such."
  created: '2010-11-24 16:54:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>But given that our capacity is so much greater, why would our brains
    forgo the efficiency of recognizing \"the\" as a whole pattern, and put a semantic
    association with that?</em>\r\n\r\nI never said it didn't, and there seems to
    be good evidence from saccade length that short words are more easily recognised
    that long words and some kind of super-letter pattern recognition is likely. But
    your argument can go both ways. Instead of asking why the brain would forgo the
    efficiency of recognising 'the' as a whole pattern instead of a sequence of three
    letter patterns, you might just as well ask why the brain would do more than it
    needs to do to recognise the word? If letterwise recognition is as efficient as
    it needs to be to produce the kind of reading speed and accuracy that is typical
    of mature readers -- which is the claim of the reading psychologists --, is there
    any need for super-letter pattern recognition, especially within longer words
    in which, as I suggested to Peter, the necessary overlapping of such patterns
    would produce variable benefits and may even result in a net cost in some words."
  created: '2010-11-24 19:21:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I don\u2019t see a reason to restrict the amount of role-unit
    information the system can form vectors over to the amount contained in two or
    three letters. Is the Arabic ligature problem really real?</em>\r\n\r\nNote that
    I was suggesting a perceptual parallel to the Arabic ligature problem, which is
    a mechanical problem, not a perceptual one.\r\n\r\nThe Arabic ligature problem
    is this: if you have a ligature that represents a combination of two letters AB,
    and another ligature that represents a combination of two letters BC, what do
    you do when you encounter the sequence of letters ABC? You either need to favour
    AB over BC, or vice versa, or you need to add an ABC ligature to your font. But
    what happens if you also have a CD ligature, or even a BCD ligature, and encounter
    an ABCD sequence? You have to make the same choice about which sequence of letters
    to process as a unit, and the only way to optimise the typographic results is
    to add an ABCD ligature, and then an ABCDE ligature, and an ABCDEF ligature, all
    the way up to the maximum sequence of connected letters anticipated in the vocabulary
    of the target language(s). And this is exactly what some approaches to nastaliq
    typography ended up doing, resulting in fonts of >20,000 ligatures, many of them
    whole words. [And then a Palistani newspaper would transliterate the name of a
    Soviet premier, and a new ligature would need to be added.]\r\n\r\nThe Arabic
    ligature problem is resolved by not using ligatures.\r\n\r\nWhat I am suggesting
    is that a similar problem might arise in any situation in which two or more letters
    are processed as a unit, including the perceptual situation. If we learn to recognise
    the pattern of features that constitute two letters in sequence, or three letters
    in sequence, what happens when we encounter overlapping sequences? You are familiar,
    I am sure with Wittgenstein's rabbit/duck illustration, or with the famous images
    of the old crone / young beauty, or the portrait of Freud that can also be seen
    as a naked woman reclining? The point of such illustrations is that at any one
    moment we see either one image or the other: we don't see both at once. I believe
    -- I am not aware of evidence to the contrary -- that pattern isolation, recognition
    of patterns within a crowded context, works the same way. Otherwise, word search
    puzzles would be no challenge at all. So in reading a sequence of letters containing
    two overlapping patterns that we recognise as units, but whose combined form we
    do not recognise as a pattern, I predict that we will recognise only one of the
    patterns. Now, it probably doesn't matter which of the two patterns we recognise
    in that moment, except insofar as one or the other might have an advantage in
    terms of accuracy or efficiency of identifying the particular word (whereas the
    other pattern might have the advantage in a different word). But what may matter
    is that if we try perceptually to resolve the problem by recognising three, four,
    five letter sequences as patterns that subsume the shorter sequences, there are
    almost certainly diminishing returns in efficiency and accuracy, unless you think
    we read like a ligatured nastaliq font with thousands of patterns of letters sequences
    in our heads to be searched among for matches when reading."
  created: '2010-11-24 19:27:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem is that, when reading printed text from paper, reading the type
    is only a problem to the visually or cognitively impaired and they can certainly
    use some help.  I can see highway signage and way-finding signage needing a look-see.\r\nWe
    have a temporary issue with online reading which is related to the technology--which
    will either soon enough change or be adapted to.\r\n\r\nWhat amazes me is how
    WELL humans can read even the worst \xDFhit writing or type (including my own
    hand writing).\r\nWe may gain a very minute amount of reading speed and comprehension
    with further research so scientists can have at it all they want .\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I am sure they can accurately count eye regressions but I don't know that they
    can say for sure what that means. I have several reasons that I know I go back
    and re-read a few words. Here is my top 10:\r\n1. It was great writing and I enjoyed
    it;\r\n2. It was really \xDFhitty writing and I couldn't understand it;\r\n3.
    It said something that really pi\xDFsed me off;.\r\n4. It said something I strongly
    agreed with;\r\n5. It was a blatant lie;\r\n6. It was funny;\r\n7. It was stupid;\r\n8.
    It was about typography (or dark chocolate or coffee);\r\n9 It was about my family;\r\n10.
    It was from the IRS, Ivan the Terrible, or John Gotty.\r\n\r\nMy biggest reason
    would have to be:\r\n\r\nBecause I was daydreaming and forgot where I was.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-11-24 19:57:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm presently reading a book with Th ligatures. (Garamond Premier Pro.)\r\nIt's
    really getting between me and the text.\r\nI'll be reading along merrily, and
    then Boom, WTF was that, and I'm perusing an ugly ligature."
  created: '2010-11-24 20:08:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you might just as well ask why the brain would do more than it needs to
    do to recognise the word?\r\n\r\nWell I did ask and answer that, though my answer
    is conjectural, of course. In my view brain can *more quickly* do whole word recognition
    than by doing a look-up, given the way the brain works. We can easily recognize
    the difference between a cat and a dog, a holistic recognition problem that is
    currently beyond computers (as Kevin has explained) whereas adding 358 and 786
    in our heads takes most of us a long time, if we can do it at all. Interactive
    activation, which is necessary to explain the word superiority effect at all under
    the \"slot processing\" model, I suspect operates more slowly than the kind of
    \"matrix resonance\" that is going on in pattern recognition. That's one reason
    why I don't buy that that is what's happening. \r\n\r\nYour argument about increasing
    ligatures in Arabic is not relevant, in my view, because we are not talking about
    an endless combination of letters, but a finite and not that big collection of
    words, a few thousand, and a smaller group of phonetic combination that I think
    are recognized as well. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-11-24 21:49:09'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> Personally, I am sure they can accurately count eye regressions but I don't
    know that they can say for sure what that means.\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a great point,
    and why clever experiments are developed to induce what is happening. For example
    a test could be developed to compare the regressive saccade rates when writing
    is confusing or when writing is funny compared to writing that is less confusing
    or less funny respectively. These tests would tell us if confusing or funny writing
    cause an increase in regressive saccades.\r\n\r\nI expect that most regressive
    saccades are not caused by the semantic content. One finding shows that blinking
    is a source of eye regressions. The rate of regressive saccades immediately following
    a blink is measurably higher than the rate of regressive saccades immediately
    before the blink. I think this tells us that blinking is disruptive to reading,
    but is necessary to keep the cornea moist.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-24 23:27:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Sounds like a plan, Kevin!
  created: '2010-11-25 03:04:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>Your argument about increasing ligatures in Arabic is not relevant,
    in my view, because we are not talking about an endless combination of letters,
    but a finite and not that big collection of words, a few thousand, and a smaller
    group of phonetic combination that I think are recognized as well.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    combination of joined letters in Arabic is also not endless, and the maximum length
    of a lettergroup is something fairly close to the area of reasonably clear foveal
    focus in a fixation during reading. The problem that I described is not, in any
    case, one of length, but of pattern overlap. The length issue only arises if one
    tries to resolve the overlap issue by recognising larger patterns that incorporates
    the shorter, overlapping patterns.\r\n\r\nHere is a word of average length: length.
    If we don't recognise the whole word as a pattern, then there is a very large
    number of possible combinations of single and multiple letter patterns that we
    potentially recognise within the word:\r\n\r\nl e n g t h\r\nle n g t h\r\nl en
    g t h\r\nl e ng t h\r\nl e n gt h\r\nl e n g th\r\nle ng th\r\nle n gt h\r\nle
    n g th\r\nl en g th\r\nl en g t h\r\nl en gt h\r\nlen g t h\r\netc.\r\n\r\nAny
    one of these patterns will be more or less beneficial to accuracy and speed of
    word recognition than any other, and we can't predict or determine which patterns
    are actually recognised by an individual reader in a particular situation."
  created: '2010-11-25 05:29:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, I believe that for long words the letter scrambling texts have found
    that the ends of the word and its length are the stronger influence. As I mentioned
    with my idea of many different parallel analyses going on and one winning the
    race, I think the brain is doing a lot simultaneously. This would include identifying
    sub-word phonemes by pattern. This may seem inefficient, but not when the prime
    goal is recognizing the word quickly, and given the massive resources available.
    And this is the phenomenon of "attention": a whole lot of the brain is tasked
    to the priority of the moment. At least for some of us, that focus means we may
    not hear our wives reminding us of household chores when absorbed in reading,
    writing or designing type! '
  created: '2010-11-25 16:29:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Massive resources are no excuse for inefficiency. Bill, I think your \u201Cmany
    different parallel analyses\u201D scheme results in something I\u2019ve seen referred
    to by David Boulton as the disambiguation overhead problem. See: http://www.childrenofthecode.org/library/refs/alphabeticinsight.htm.
    I think a horse-race that relies on identifying sub-word patterns kicks in when
    the rapid automatic process of resolving the whole word pattern in purely role-unit
    terms fails.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll have more to say, I hope, about processing analogues
    to John\u2019s Arabic Ligature Problem after I\u2019ve knocked down some looming
    deadlines. I\u2019ll be referring to Colin J. Davis & Jeffrey S. Bowers [2006]
    Contrasting Five Different Theories of Letter Position Coding: Evidence From Orthographic
    Similarity Effects."
  created: '2010-11-25 17:45:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "For more on disambiguation overhead see: http://www.childrenofthecode.org/interviews/rayner.htm.
    My scheme avoids this because there is no explicit labelling at a level higher
    than role-units. Yet as we read we \u2018see\u2019 or are subliminally aware of
    words as lettered things because local combination detection still occurs in the
    simultaneous co-activation of letter parts process."
  created: '2010-11-25 18:06:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>s I mentioned with my idea of many different parallel analyses
    going on and one winning the race, I think the brain is doing a lot simultaneously.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't find this idea very persuasive. I find it easier to believe that the cognitive
    process is iterative, and that the first method tried is determined by previous
    success. This is also one of the reasons why I'm not convinced that there is a
    magic moment when someone who had learned to read by recognising letter shapes
    suddenly becomes a different kind of reader, one who recognises words using some
    other pattern of shapes: what is the impetus to change something that works? This
    is not to say that I don't think we gradually pick up the ability to recognise
    other patterns within words, but I suspect this happens willy nilly, happens as
    a byproduct of looking at lots of words and not as a cognitive progression. Of
    course, if Karl Marx were interested in cognitive psychology, this is presumably
    the point where he would remind me that sufficient quantitative changes result
    in a qualitative change."
  created: '2010-11-25 19:03:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[with edits]\r\n\r\nJohn, there is no magic moment: the change is not that
    sudden. The literature on perceptual learning details how the change might happen.
    \r\n\r\nThe impetus to change is three-fold: 1) the process of learning to read,
    being letter-based and iterative, is highly deliberative and cognitively lead
    but visual word-form resolution must ideally be perceptual driven, effortless
    and automatic, 2) the disambiguation overload caused by the phonetic assignments
    of discrete alphabetic markers must be silenced, and 3) narrow phase alignment
    \u2014 which the history of reading has selected for survival \u2014 makes the
    intervening segmentation required to isolate letters for independent (though parallel)
    recognition hard."
  created: '2010-11-25 20:16:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter, before I respond, can you clarify what you mean by phase alignment?
    I want to be sure that I understand you.\r\n\r\nI'm concerned that your first
    two impeti might be begging the question, that they suggest reasons for something
    to happen based on what you think <em>should</em> happen."
  created: '2010-11-25 20:56:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I'm not trying to prove anything. I\u2019m just trying to lay out my
    notions in a persuasive or compelling manner. To do this I try to elucidate, using
    things I've gathered from years of immersion in the literature on reading \u2014
    a kind of \u201Ccritical retrieval,\u201D if you will \u2014 how my scheme might
    elucidate the issues that you raise. The issue was that of impetus. I said a deliberative
    and iterative process was not ideal, and then highlighted a disambiguation and
    a potential perceptual psychophysical issue which both of which are insufficiently
    address. If that's \u201Cassuming the initial point,\u201D so be it.\r\n\r\nAbout
    phase alignment, fourier transforms show that in the horizontal direction of reading
    visual information is fairly tightly packed around a single phasal peak, i.e.,
    a single spatial frequency. In transforms of well set type there are typically
    no competing harmonics, and the packing is not absolute. Competing harmonics begin
    to appear when type becomes badly spaced. This seems consistent across many typefaces,
    covering different styles. The realist sans serifs and the bodonis are most tightly
    packed, which accounts for the picket fence effect. Humanist sans serifs and traditonal
    old style and transitional faces are better. So when I say narrow phase alignment
    I am refer to the tight packing around a single phasal peak."
  created: '2010-11-25 23:17:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter \"efficiency\" depends on the goal. If the overwhelming priority is
    on speed, then it is most efficient to throw a lot of resources at it, unless
    these are needed elsewhere. My reason for thinking that letter recognition is
    also starting simultaneously is that we are pretty good at it, as mixed case reading
    shows. We do slow down with mixed case, which I think shows that there is whole
    word pattern recognition involved. But the fact that we are still pretty good
    at mixed case, and scrambled words, I think shows that something like letter recognition
    is going on pretty often also. We seem to have some quite good skills at recognizing
    and assembling individual letters, even though that may not dominate.\r\n\r\nDo
    you have an explanation of why we are pretty skilled at mixed case and scrambled
    letter reading?"
  created: '2010-11-26 04:29:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Bill, the overwhelming priority is on sense-following. Effective sense following
    and typographical transparency is probably very compromised with mixed case and
    scrambled letter texts. I think we piece our way through scrambled text and alternating
    case much like a child learning to read pieces his or her way through unfamiliar
    words, Save your cognitive resources for sense following and meaning construction.
  created: '2010-11-26 04:53:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, Kate Mayall, Glyn W. Humphries, et. al. [2001] \u201CThe Effects of
    Case Mixing on Word Recognition: Evidence from a PET Study\u201D found that besides
    the increase in reaction times in naming and other word recognition tasks for
    alternating-case words, during both an implicit (feature detection) task and an
    explicit word-naming task, alternating-case words compared to same-case words
    produced increased activation in an area of the right parietal cortex previously
    associated with visual attention. They concluded that reading alternating-case
    words requires increased attentional processing.\r\n\r\nWhy are we pretty skilled
    at it? Because even at significant levels of disruption, with increased attentional
    processing, and maybe indeed some resultant activation of letter modes, matrix
    resonance can still happen?"
  created: '2010-11-26 13:52:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In an effort to clarify for myself and others where my intrinsic integration
    account and a parallel letter recognition account might converge and diverge,
    let me try the following:\r\n\r\nA letter recognizer, when applied to words, requires
    a parsing or segmentation routine. Suppose we think of this as a gathering of
    role-unit level information around salient centres. (We know that role-units \u2014
    my term for independent letter parts like bowls and stems \u2014 are the perceptual
    processing primitives in reading because of some of Deinis Pelli\u2019s work with
    spatial frequency channels and efficiency.) The salient centres might be indexed
    in parafoveal preview. They might correspond with open counters, or areas of high
    role-unt density or \u2018expressed structure\u2019 like in the e or s. The gathering
    is keyed to determine the prototypical identity of the role-units and detecting
    their local combinations, such as where and how role unites touch or intersect.\r\n\r\nMy
    account can work on this principle as well.\r\n\r\nIn the parallel letter recognition
    account it is assumed that this gathering proceeds to the point of explicit labeling,
    constructed in the Interactive Activation scheme as an activation of an independent
    abstract-letter node. A look-up function, which can be schematized as projection
    to or feeding-forward to a set of word nodes sits on top of this.\r\n\r\nIn my
    account the gathering around salient centres happens but node activation or explicit
    labelling is inhibited or suspended. (This is Edmund Burke Huey [1908]\u2019s
    inhibition of incipient recognitions for letters.) The activation of word-nodes
    can be more direct.\r\n\r\nIt is not the gathering of information around salient
    centres that I object to, but the explicit labelling / letter-node activation
    caveat.\r\n\r\nBecause my account can effectively work on the principle of a parallel
    gathering around salient centres, it can in principle account for both our everyday
    experience \u2014 while reading \u2014 of words as lettered things and empirical
    data that is taken to suggest a letter-wise parsing operating in parallel.\r\n\r\nTo
    account for the capacity benefits experimenters see in Word Superiority tests,
    Marilyn Jager Adams speaks of interfacilitation [her term] at the letter level.
    My account imagines an interfacilitation routine operating at a role unit level
    and relying on phase alignment to be effective. The Interactive Activation scheme
    achieves the same or similar capacity benefits by positing facilitatory feedback
    loops between levels."
  created: '2010-11-26 15:55:54'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bringhurstsm_3593.jpg]\r\nBringhurst
    at ATYPI, Dublin. Photo by me.\r\n\r\nI changed my mind about this guy. He's OK.
    Yes, he's a self acknowledged \"type snob\"; yes, he elevates writing above the
    other arts, so he can still KMA.\r\nBut I was reading the chapter on \"Grooming
    The Font\" from <em>The Elements Of Typographic Style</em> and it turns out the
    guy thinks most fonts need fixing. He's a tweaker! Go figure."
  created: '2010-11-27 14:23:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I\u2019ll have more to say, I hope, about processing analogues
    to John\u2019s Arabic Ligature Problem...</em>\r\n\r\nI am very interested in
    pursuing this further, Peter, so please do post more when you are able.\r\n___\r\n\r\nRich:
    ...[<em>Bringhurst</em>] <em>elevates writing above the other arts...</em>\r\n\r\nHe
    does? Robert is very knowledgeable on music and painting, so this statement surprises
    me. He has spent years trying -- not very successfully, I think -- to attain in
    typographic form something of the qualities of polyphonic music, so he is surely
    aware of some of the limitations of writing.\r\n\r\nAlso, it is perhaps better
    to say that <em>literature</em> is his principle interest, not writing per se,
    since he has done so much to champion oral literature."
  created: '2010-12-12 03:42:09'
date: '2010-11-16 23:43:13'
node_type: forum
title: Monitor on Psychology interview with Kevin Larson

---
