---
author:
  name: cool_hand
body: "I am sure this discussed already somewhere but I could not find it:\r\n\r\nHow
  many hours does it take to design a standard font? On average?\r\n\r\nLet's say
  caps and lower case and numerals, standard punctuation and accents - the same as
  you would get in a 256 postscript font. Spaced kerned and basic hinting. Format
  can be OpenType but not with all the crazy ligatures, alt. characters and obscure
  accents.\r\n\r\nDid erik spiekermann once quote 120 hours?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "How much does a car cost?\r\n\r\nThere are too many variables involved to
    give a meaningful ballpark estimate. I've seen posts in this forum stating that
    upwards of eight hundred hours were involved with the creation of one font. On
    the other hand, I have managed to knock out a few with complete Latin 1252 and
    CE 1250 character sets in less than twelve hours each, including hand-kerning
    each and every possible letter combination. It all depends: Tata Nano or Maybach?"
  created: '2010-11-18 01:01:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Somewhere between 62 and 146.5 hours. '
  created: '2010-11-18 05:13:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When I started, I was faster.  Now that I know more and have seen the error
    of my ways, it takes longer.
  created: '2010-11-18 05:30:58'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "So far my experience is somewhere between 4 hours and 8 years... \r\nAlso
    let me just quickly ask, which accent is the most obscure?"
  created: '2010-11-18 06:33:15'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: 14,5 hours, roughly. [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/crisis/|(q.e.d.)]]
  created: '2010-11-18 12:12:05'
- author:
    name: cool_hand
  body: Thanks for your answers, I am now none the wiser.
  created: '2010-11-19 23:00:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: As are we all, Cool_hand.
  created: '2010-11-20 00:40:52'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: '"What we have here, is a failure to communicate."'
  created: '2010-11-20 03:27:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For the picky ones, same as in the punchcutting days: an average of 8 hours
    per glyph. But that's factoring in everything, like spacing, testing, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-20 03:47:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I just spent 8 hours screwing around with a partial differential for a titling
    display face where it may never be used. Not that it will ever be appreciated
    or even noticed--I just "had to do it"
  created: '2010-11-20 04:34:18'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: is one ever <cite>really</cite> done?
  created: '2010-11-20 05:05:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Define "done"
  created: '2010-11-20 06:12:21'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Somebody around here once said words to the effect of:\r\n<cite>\"A font
    is never finished, merely abandoned.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nAnybody have any idea who
    it is I'm misquoting?"
  created: '2010-11-20 06:24:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: A guy named Matthew Carter, I believe ;-)
  created: '2010-11-20 09:27:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">\"A font is never finished, merely abandoned.\" [M. Carter]\r\n\r\nThat
    is correct. \r\n\r\nSo when discussing the time required to get from the beginning
    to abandonment, I think the variables are the designer(s), the tool(s), the specification,
    the design characteristics, client temperature and the distance of all but the
    last variable to food, water and relief of various kinds. \r\n"
  created: '2010-11-20 12:15:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "But Wait! There's More!\r\n\r\nAfter the font designer abandons it, the work
    is picked up the end user."
  created: '2010-11-20 12:51:24'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "And Matthew was, in turn, borrowing from the <em>bon mots</em> of Paul Val\xE9ry
    (1871\u20131945): \u201CA poem is never finished, only abandoned.\u201D"
  created: '2010-11-20 13:12:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the work is picked up the end user.\r\n\r\nYes, unlike a poem -or other
    artwork- which is basically self-expression. So we could equate the user with
    Society, which gives us a better option that \"abandoned\": something like \"sent
    off into the world\", as one does with his child - and I think this is how Sumner
    Stone has described the act of releasing a font. This is especially fitting since
    even after release some users will contact the designer for some form of help
    with the font!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-20 14:05:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Here's an older thread with more opinions:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/41558"
  created: '2010-11-20 15:16:36'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: 2h max ; even slighly more is time-wasted ; i love that kind of question :-)
  created: '2010-11-20 15:23:04'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>\"What we have here, is a failure to communicate.\"</em>\r\n\r\nVintage
    Strother Martin. Reference noted, James; a quite appropriate quote for the poster..."
  created: '2010-11-20 17:23:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "\u201CA font is never finished, only published.\u201D"
  created: '2010-11-20 17:59:26'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "\u201CA font is never finished, only published.\u201D - I wholly agree, and
    I really like Hrants notion. But it is also totally terrible to go back to your
    fonts (children) born some two or three years back: you want to change just about
    everything.\r\n\r\nI made a font with full MacOS Roman character set in 3 hours
    and 4 minutes in Font Marathon. That was in ATypI Helsinki 2005. End result was
    pretty much crap, but it is a working OpenType sans serif. I believe that is the
    world record.\r\n\r\nUsually, If I have a decent idea, sans serif takes a day,
    and serif takes two with kerning. If I get doubts on the way, it obviously takes
    longer. After that it slows down: small caps, alternatives, italics. And then
    the weights, if it  turns out to be a family or a super family."
  created: '2010-11-20 21:51:27'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "\u201CIf you\u2019re not embarrassed when you ship your product, you waited
    too long.\u201D -- Reid Hoffman"
  created: '2010-11-21 09:13:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: How do you interpret Hoffman's quote, Hannes?
  created: '2010-11-21 16:14:55'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "I started work on a font in 1976.\r\n\r\nStill working on it.\r\n\r\nI WIN
    !!!"
  created: '2010-11-22 04:01:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I WIN !!!\r\n\r\nA cookie... from 1976.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-22 05:39:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I have a handwriting sample from my mom\r\nthat I'll be digitizing
    one day. She just turned 81.\r\nBOOYA\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-22 13:44:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "@ Hrant <cite>Yes, unlike a poem -or other artwork- which is basically self-expression.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nNot to quibble, but a perfectly good poem, play or piece of prose
    can be ruined by a bad reading, or elevated by a great one. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-22 13:46:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When you are satisfied that your child can survive in the world on his/her
    own you are willing to open the door and watch him fly. Luckily, real children
    just open the door themselves and fly away when they are ready.  Otherwise, parents
    would have a dilemma to deal with if it was they who decided.
  created: '2010-11-22 17:55:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Make sure you change the lock when they leave :-)
  created: '2010-11-22 18:12:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick, I am an old softy and would love to have them home. :-)\r\n\r\nSome
    others might prefer to sell the house and move to a small apartment where it is
    clear there is no spare room  :-)"
  created: '2010-11-22 18:15:44'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I think I make fonts slow.... I think my record is a sans lowercase in about
    five hours.... I have made pixel alphabets much quicker, but I don't think that
    counts. I think it takes a few weeks for me to "finish" an alphabet most of the
    time.
  created: '2010-11-23 08:24:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I work fast, but I still take ages.\r\n\r\nIt all depends if you are a 'knock-em-out-quick'
    type person or are bothered about quality.\r\n\r\nThere, that's finished. Hang
    on a minute, if I just do this it will be better.... etc.\r\n\r\nThis question
    is quite ridiculous."
  created: '2010-11-23 11:20:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: How much does the job pay?
  created: '2010-11-23 20:33:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: From nothing to lots.
  created: '2010-11-24 08:53:43'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: If I become neurotic, then it goes much faster.
  created: '2010-11-24 12:40:09'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: "My new font Desire is taking well over 1000 hours to make. To give you and
    Idea this alternate Capital B took 2 and half days to get it to work properly
    with text going through it. At the present time there are over 26 capital A's.
    It should have over 850 different alternates for uppercase and lowercase. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.letterheadfonts.com/news/index.php?a=blog&id=230\r\n\r\nSometimes
    I think there is no end in site but I am getting there."
  created: '2010-11-24 18:18:50'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Julian, all typophile.com regulars know this quote from Matthew Carter: \u201CWatching
    me work is like watching a refrigerator make ice.\u201D I also like Edgar Degas\u2019s
    \xAB Allez, la peinture n\u2019est pas un sport ! \xBB."
  created: '2010-11-24 19:00:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...alternate Capital B took 2 and half days...\"\r\n\r\nI have spent that
    much time on an ogonek. ;-)\r\n\r\nWhen it needs fixing, it needs fixing and it
    won't let you go until it is right."
  created: '2010-11-24 20:03:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: But we do make sport of type design, Maxim ;-)
  created: '2010-11-24 20:06:55'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: '"Take as much time as it requires" ?'
  created: '2010-11-24 23:34:07'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "<blockquote>dezcom wrote: How do you interpret Hoffman's quote, Hannes?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhen
    you work in iterations every design challenge can be solved in every time frame.
    The different results are distinguished by different level of perfection. I can
    write a complete alphabet in under one minute. If you give me one hour to draw
    the same alphabet it will still be a complete alphabet but more time has gone
    into the design of every individual glyph. I think that in an ideal situation
    you should be able to stop at every point in time and always have a completed
    job. The question is what degree of perfection is actually required by the purpose
    for which you are drawing the font. When do you stop refining and start with the
    next project? I say, release early and often. But then again, I always fail keeping
    to these maxims.\r\n: )"
  created: '2010-11-26 13:37:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Cool_hand >Thanks for your answers, I am now none the wiser.\r\n\r\nHow could
    that be? If you came here thinking there was an simple answer, you must at least
    be a tiny bit wiser.;)"
  created: '2010-11-26 13:52:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...what degree of perfection is actually required....\"\r\n\r\nAnd there
    in lies the rub ;-)"
  created: '2010-11-26 17:25:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Maxim: <em>\"Watching me work is like watching a refrigerator make ice.\"</em>\r\n\r\nCarter
    has also been quoted as saying it's \"...as exciting as watching paint dry.\"\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe that Julian is correct in his definition of the work entailed as
    \"design\":\r\n\r\n<em>...caps and lower case and numerals, standard punctuation
    and accents - the same as you would get in a 256 postscript font. Spaced kerned
    and basic hinting. Format can be OpenType but not with all the crazy ligatures,
    alt. characters and obscure accents.</em>\r\n\r\nOnce <strong>Hamburgefonts</strong>
    is completed, the font is designed, and the rest is execution/manufacture.\r\nThis
    much we know from a thread earlier this year, which revealed the collaborative
    nature of much font-making.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-26 18:35:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Once <strong>Hamburgefonts</strong> is completed, the font is\r\n> designed,
    and the rest is execution/manufacture.\r\n\r\nRidiculous.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-26 18:46:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Where then do you draw the line between design and execution?
  created: '2010-11-26 19:13:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good question. I guess I don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-26 19:21:13'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<blockquote>I think that in an ideal situation you should be able to stop
    at every point in time and always have a completed job.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting notion. I think I quite like this idea."
  created: '2010-11-26 20:03:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I guess I don't buy the "Design stops after Hamburgefonstiv" notion.  I think
    not only drawing the complete glyph set and font metrics are part of the design
    process, but even the thought that goes into deciding about OTF features is also
    relevant. Probably actual coding may be considered "production" but the word "manufacture"
    seems a wrong choice. To me, manufacture is the physical building of some durable
    goods where the pieces are duplicated and then reconfigured into an exact copy
    of the "designed" product. With fonts, to me, this means just testing, correcting,
    duplicating files, and uploading.
  created: '2010-11-26 20:48:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I think that in an ideal situation you should be able to stop at every
    point in time and always have a completed job.</em>\r\n\r\nI would not consider
    that an ideal criterion for judging the success of sweeping a floor, much less
    making a font, but maybe that's just me..."
  created: '2010-11-26 22:17:58'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "@ oldnick: If the MO for sweeping the floor was an iterative process then
    you could stop at any time and the whole room was uniformly clean to a certain
    degree. Also this is not a criterion for judging the success of a design but it
    is a valid indicator for judging the design process. You just proved that your
    analogy does not work. You did not prove that my method of design stinks.  \r\n:
    )"
  created: '2010-11-27 09:51:21'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: As my old teacher Petr van Blokland used to say:<blockquote>Everything that
    can be automated is by definition not design but production.</blockquote>A lot
    of design decisions will be made while executing established design principles.
    The lines are blurred and it is the designer's task to determine the granularity
    at which he starts automating.
  created: '2010-11-27 09:55:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like Petr's definition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-27 14:06:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Everything that can be automated is by definition not design but production.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is a fair yet succinct statement--i can buy that easily."
  created: '2010-11-27 14:42:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "And of course the question of what can be automated \r\nis also answered
    differently by different designers. :)"
  created: '2010-11-27 15:16:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Exactly, Nina, thus allowing for the differences in designers working methods.
  created: '2010-11-27 16:36:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I prefer not to automate.\r\nLet's keep the algorithms at bay for as long
    as we can.\r\n\r\nIt is the global automations, applied to every glyph in a font,
    which are most problematic.\r\nOf course, it is possible to tweak individual glyphs
    once they have been algorithmically modified.\r\nBut over-reliance on automations
    depreciates the taste and skill required to make such manual adjustments well."
  created: '2010-11-27 17:57:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...over-reliance on automations depreciates the taste and skill required
    to make such manual adjustments well.\"\r\n\r\nThat is why some of us still want
    to call it part of the design process.  Most of us who have tried any of the \"automatic\"
    features in FontLab can attest to the absolute mess that they make and cleanup
    time they require."
  created: '2010-11-27 18:38:04'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "In the beginning there was nothing.\r\n\r\nAnd God said let there be light.\r\n\r\nThen
    God saw how empty the world was so he created type designers.\r\n\r\nAnd they
    filled the world with symbols and letter forms.\r\n\r\nAnd God was pleased.\r\n\r\nBut,
    type designers were annoyed how long it took to make these typefaces, so God gave
    man tools and technology.\r\n\r\nNow, the world is bursting with too many fonts.\r\n\r\nSo,
    God created the OpenType format and allowed extended character sets and a lot
    more stuff in a font.\r\n\r\nNow it takes longer to make a font and type designers
    are pissed. More work and less money to be made.\r\n\r\nAnd God is pleased!"
  created: '2010-11-27 20:22:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If there is a god, I hope she is attending to the real \xDFhit instead of
    just the profit margin on type ;-)"
  created: '2010-11-27 21:12:20'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "@Nick \r\n<cite>\r\nWhere then do you draw the line between design and execution?\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    design is execution... and vice versa.\r\n\r\nYou can have a clear idea of your
    typographic design (be it in your mind or in paper) but one you star drawing your
    glyphs and the font begins to come to like, you start noticing all those little
    details that makes the difference.\r\nYou  start noticing that some glyphs will
    need to be wider, some other narrower, and you start redefining the relations
    of the drawing of the glyphs and the spacing, the side-bearings, maybe you refine
    some terminals, some angles, the strokes weights, and all that stuff.\r\n\r\nSo,
    in the same way that the letter-forms relate to the spacing, and the spacing relate
    to kerning... I will say that design is also related to execution, and the line
    is not clearly defined.\r\n\r\nAlso, I believe that good execution is a little
    harder to achieve, since it requires a lot of technical knowledge, and ultimately
    will depend on practice and expertise on the tools used. While design can come
    natural to some people, while other will also achieve it by learning and practice.\r\n\r\nAs
    an example, the people at CheapProFonts are doing something like that.\r\nWorking
    with free fonts authors that provide some good designs but laking the execution
    skills, and improving on the execution side: by tweaking the design to improve
    it, refining contours, adding diatrics, OT features, and all the tech aspects.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-27 21:24:20'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Be careful what you wish for.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that in time they will figure
    out a way to automate type design, and we will all be out of a job.\r\n\r\nA machine
    will just be turning out variations until eternity.\r\n\r\nAutomation is just
    a tool, use it wisely.\r\n\r\nI still believe that we should be involved with
    the entire job of type design.\r\n\r\nThe aesthetic as well as the technical aspects.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I too get frustrated with the endless tweaks and modifications necessary in good
    type design.\r\n\r\nAnd I get bored, usually about halfway, and I would easily
    like to give the technical aspect and other stuff to others to do.\r\n\r\nAnd
    just spend time thinking up new ideas and such. Who wouldn't?\r\n\r\nBut, if we
    relocate that work to others, who will control the final product.\r\n\r\nI think
    it's important to be involved in the entire process. No shortcuts.\r\n\r\nNo matter
    how long it takes!\r\n\r\nAnd, someday I will finish that font that I started
    in 1976."
  created: '2010-11-27 22:00:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Pablo: <em>I will say that design is also related to execution, and the
    line is not clearly defined.</em>\r\n\r\nThe refinements you describe are \"crafting\"
    and are part of execution.\r\n\r\nThere is a certain amount of authorship in crafting
    and font production in general, but it is not design.\r\n\r\nOf course, there
    can be feedback from crafting that necessitates design changes.\r\n\r\n\"Design\"
    has a broad variety of meanings (rather like those other typographic bugbears
    \"modern\" and \"style\"), but I do think there should be some terminological
    distinction between inventing a typeface and producing it.\r\n\r\nIf not, we have
    the bizarre situation where someone who produces a digital revival of a face can
    be credited as the co-designer. Conveniently, the original designer may no longer
    be around to question the appropriation.\r\n\r\nHere's what happened to me: I
    never contested the digital rights to my first sans, Shinn Sans, which were acquired
    and digitized by Steve Jackaman (Red Rooster), and he credited himself as co-designer.
    I had originally created three weights of Roman. Steve interpolated two more,
    and made slanted italics. He also did a considerable amount of adaptation of my
    original pen-and-ink artwork, which had all kinds of ticks and ink traps (it had
    been drawn for Diatronic photocomposition), as well as creating the metrics and
    kerning. However, I requested that he change the attribution, and he was gracious
    enough to do so, and is now credited with \"digitally engineered\". That was my
    suggestion at the time (2002) although today I would probably prefer \"digitally
    crafted\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-28 00:16:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a way to automate type design..</em>\r\n\r\nAlong these lines? --\r\n\r\nhttp://www.epagogix.com/\r\n\r\nAll
    very well, but someone has to write the script first.\r\nAs Sarkozy recently quipped
    when earmarking \u20AC54 billion to French R&D,  \"you can't build a lightbulb
    by successive improvements to the candle\".\r\n\r\nTypefaces as emergent phenomena."
  created: '2010-11-28 00:21:42'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "@alex\r\n\r\n<em>And, someday I will finish that font that I started in 1976.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does that font look like? You must have made progress since 1976...."
  created: '2010-11-28 06:42:42'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "@brianskywalker\r\n\r\nIt's a very fancy \"wedding-type\" script font.\r\n\r\nI
    find script typefaces very challenging to do.\r\n\r\nNot really my forte, but
    I have always aspired to try my hand at one.\r\n\r\nThis one has many alternates,
    beginnings and ending variations.\r\n\r\nA work of love and agony. I go back to
    it every once in a while.\r\n\r\nLike \"Michelangelo\" said to \"Pope Julius II\",
    the Sistine Chapel fresco will be done when I am done.\r\n\r\nMy sentiments exactly.
    Patience is a virtue.\r\n\r\nAnd my is running out.."
  created: '2010-11-28 21:33:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>If the MO for sweeping the floor was an iterative process then you could
    stop at any time and the whole room was uniformly clean to a certain degree</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    motions are iterative; the area covered is not: stopping halfway across the room
    yields a decidedly non-uniform and, in terms of the whole picture, unsuccessful
    results. The analogy holds: your method may not stink, but it leaves a lot to
    be desired..."
  created: '2010-11-28 23:49:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It seems the purpose of the \"method\" is to keep things going out the door.
    \ It is probably a child of:\r\nQ--\"How long does it take to finish a project?\"\r\nA--\"As
    long as I have to do it!\"\r\n\r\nI have since forgotten who first said it.  I
    am betting it was an old school art director or graphic designer."
  created: '2010-11-29 01:32:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "how high is jump?\r\n\r\nClearly, the more people answer the question, the
    more obscure the answer.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-29 04:09:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not more obscure, but richer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-29 04:18:05'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: "@oldnick: <blockquote>The motions are iterative; the area covered is not:
    stopping halfway across the room yields a decidedly non-uniform and, in terms
    of the whole picture, unsuccessful results. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe motions are
    repetitive but unless you sweep the same room over and over again, achieving increasing
    cleanliness, the process is not iterative."
  created: '2010-11-29 12:05:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The motions are repetitive but unless you sweep the same room over and
    over again, achieving increasing cleanliness, the process is not iterative.</em>\r\n\r\nPrinceton
    University defines <strong>iteration</strong> as a single execution of a set of
    instructions that are to be repeated. If one defines the \"set\" of instructions
    as \"sweep\", the process is iterative. In any case, quibbling over semantics
    does nothing to improve your approach to design."
  created: '2010-11-29 17:28:23'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@oldnick no baka! You have got to learn the difference between repetition
    and iteration! Sweeping the floor once involves a lot of repetitive movement,
    but it isn''t iterative for a tuppenny.'
  created: '2010-11-30 04:46:04'
date: '2010-11-18 00:33:58'
title: How many hours to design a font?

---
