---
author:
  name: Darim
  picture: 120275
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy name is Darim Kim and I am a graphic designer. \r\n\r\nI am currently
  working on my personal project related to Hangul, which is the Korean writing system.\r\n\r\nI
  designed the attached \"Periodic Table of Hangul\" for the sake of compiling the
  essential information about Hangul, especially for beginners. The purpose of this
  design is introducing Hangul to non-Korean speakers. It does not cover every single
  aspect of Hangul, and I do not think people will master Hangul with this wallpaper.
  However, I believe that they can start reading and writing Hangul with this and
  that is all I expect. \r\n\r\n\r\nI have tested this design with a few people and
  revised it several times. While I was reviewing the information by myself, I started
  to feel that I need more opinions to make this design useful. \r\n\r\nSo I attached
  the image here to get some input from the experts like you. I appreciate your critique
  of the overall information and design. \r\n(I posted this topic here, not under
  the Critique forum, since I want to hear your opinions as a user about the comprehensibility
  of the content.)\r\n\r\nAfter I finish the design, I will release the wallpaper
  (for free).\r\n\r\nThanks a lot in advance! :)\r\n\r\nEdit(11/17/2010): The original
  image of the post was deleted. Please check the updated file in the following link.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.aboutletters.com/2010/11/periodic-table-of-hangul-updated/"
comments:
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Excellent information design. This is very informative and accessible to
    me, with no prior knowledge of Hangul. It quickly taught me more about Hangul
    than I had thought I could learn.\r\n\r\nI was confused by your use of the word
    \"invisible\" (and the dotted outline as universal symbol for \"invisible\") in
    your explanation of the circle consonant as Initial. I think you just mean that
    it is silent. The presentation makes it unclear as to whether it should be written
    in or left as an empty space, and I only guessed the former by reasoning that
    without a shape or sound there would be nothing to associate it with that particular
    consonant at all."
  created: '2010-11-18 05:02:19'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Very nice.\r\n\r\nI agree with Cerulean that 'silent' would be a better choice
    of words than 'invisible' (or, possibly, 'glottal stop', though your target audience
    might not be familiar with that term). Also for 'eu' I'd replace \"as in 'good'\"
    with \"similar to 'good'\"  (or something to that effect).\r\n\r\nIn keeping with
    the periodic table metaphor, you might also want to invent at least one novel
    jamo and claim that it is a synthetic jamo whose half-life is so small that it
    has not been observed in actual hangul syllables :)\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-18 06:25:38'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "Cerulean, and Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nThank you for the great input and the kind
    compliments. \r\nThe \"invisible\" word was chosen without deep thought after
    a volunteer mentioned it after he found out the way to convert an English name
    like \"Elaine\" into Hangul. He thought the Hangul Jamo \"\u3147\" was like a
    fake consonant used as The Initial to fill space. I thought the mute icon might
    help to explain what I was trying to say, but I guess not. I will definitely correct
    this confusion in the next revision.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9, that is a fun idea about
    the synthetic Jamo. I will consider it. ;)"
  created: '2010-11-18 13:25:37'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I think the problem with the mute icon is that it occurs in a different box
    from the word 'invisible'.\r\n\r\nDo please post your next revision. I'd love
    to see it.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-18 15:40:30'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "Thanks for the feedback, Andr\xE9.\r\n\r\nYes, I will eventually replace
    the current version with a new one.\L\r\nI also found a mistake that I did not
    notice. \r\n\r\nIn the vowel section, the description of the example word TRIM
    should be:\r\n\"There must be a vowel followed <strong>after</strong> The Initial\",
    \r\nnot  \r\n\"\u2026a vowel followed <strong><em>by</em></strong> The Initial\".
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hpart_6451.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nI've read
    it too many times, so, for the past few days I have been scanning the document
    rather than reading it. \r\n\r\n:O\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 23:10:25'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: 'To say "followed after" is not the right English idiom. You could replace
    it with "after", "following", or "that follows". Or the whole sentence could be:
    "The Initial must be followed by a vowel."'
  created: '2010-11-18 23:54:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I didn't notice that part before either. There is a mistake there, all right.
    Since \"The Initial\" is not in quotes, \"The\" cannot be capitalized.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    as already noted, since the Initial is followed by the vowel, not the other way
    around, \"There must be a vowel following the initial\" is probably what you want.
    Actually, though, what you are really attempting to say is \"There must be a vowel
    immediately following the initial\"; that is, the very next thing after the initial
    must be a vowel, so that when a syllable begins with a consonant cluster, it must
    be split into multiple syllables, with all consonants other than the last followed
    by a placeholder vowel.\r\n\r\nIn general, I found the chart excellent. At first,
    I had my doubts that organizing the material into a \"Periodic Table\" would make
    sense, but in fact it is an excellent and clear explanation of the Korean writing
    system.\r\n\r\nSince the paired consonants that can only be used as the final
    are grouped together, the three that can only be used as the initial probably
    should be as well.\r\n\r\nSome more minor nitpicks with the English, to make it
    flow idiomatically:\r\n\r\nWhile phrasing such as 'is called \"The Initial\"'
    is natural in English, the quotes and/or capitalization probably should not be
    used elsewhere in the chart.\r\n\r\nAnother typo is the sentence \"All syllables
    in Hangul must begin with a consonant and followed by a vowel\". The word \"and\"
    should be removed. You could keep the \"and\" in a construction such as \"All
    syllables in Hangul must begin with a consonant and a vowel immediately following\"."
  created: '2010-11-19 06:30:08'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "cerulean and quadibloc,\r\nThanks for the input. I will make the correction.
    I was more concerned about the design and content when creating this wallpaper
    and less so about proper idiomatic English expressions.  I will address these
    now.\r\n\r\n\r\nquadibloc,\r\nYes, I see your point.  If I capitalized \"The\"
    in the term \"The Initial\" it should have quotes around both words.  This makes
    sense.\r\n\r\nOK, I will remove the \"and\" from the sentence \"...with a consonant
    and followed by a vowel.\"  When friends and I read this, it made sense.  But,
    it does read better with the \"and\" removed. \r\n\r\nThank you very much for
    your time. \r\nI really appreciate everyone's help!\r\n\r\n:) :) :)"
  created: '2010-11-19 13:49:59'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Will you put it up as a PDF somewhere?\r\n\r\nAs a primarily linguistics
    typesetter, every now and then I encounter the odd Hangul phrases, and I'd really
    like to know what I'm typesetting :-)\r\n\r\n(Where did you get the IPA notation
    from? Wikipedia suggests \"h\u0251\u02D0\u014B\u0261\u028Al\", rather than your
    \"ha\u02D0ng\u026Fl\".)"
  created: '2010-11-19 14:52:28'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Wikipedia gives [h\u0251\u02D0\u014B\u0261\u028Al] as the <em> English </em>
    pronunciation. Darim's phonetic rendering is correct for Korean (and this is also
    noted in Wikipedia).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-19 15:24:00'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: (Got it.) ;-)
  created: '2010-11-19 15:48:58'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9 for the clarification.\r\n\r\nTheunis de Jong,\r\nIt is not
    a big deal for me to save the JPEG file as PDF. However, if you meant a file that
    is not a flattened image, I probably would not provide it to the public.\r\nIf
    you are interested, it will also be available as a print soon.\r\n\r\nThank you.
    :)"
  created: '2010-11-20 15:05:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, very interesting. '
  created: '2010-11-20 20:00:51'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "The Periodic Table of Hangul is updated. \r\nPlease click the link to view
    it.\r\nhttp://www.aboutletters.com/2010/11/periodic-table-of-hangul-updated/\r\n\r\nThanks
    again to everybody who kindly read and left comments on this post. Especially,
    I appreciate cerulean, quadibloc, and Andr\xE9 for your help and time.\r\n\r\nCerulean,
    quadibloc, and Andr\xE9,\r\nI'd like to send you free prints when it is available
    to show my appreciation. If you are interested, please email me your mailing address
    to info@aboutletters.com. \r\n\r\nThank you.\r\n\r\nDarim"
  created: '2010-11-24 18:57:11'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>\r\n<p>http://www.aboutletters.com/2010/11/periodic-table-of-hangul-updated/</p>\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nForbidden!?"
  created: '2010-11-25 09:27:55'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Just a quick note here:\r\n\r\nYour uppermost box probably should be titled
    'What are Jamo?', and in the second sentence the words 'Jamo', 'Jaeum', and 'Moeum'
    should either be in single quotes or italicised since you are not using, but rather
    mentioning, the words. I'd alter the final sentence to \"Jamo can be vowels or
    consonants, and are the building blocks of the Hangul script.\"\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\uC548\uB4DC\uB808\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 12:03:43'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "agisaak: Glottal stop isn't appropriate for \u3147 initial, as it really
    just represents a null (absent) consonant.  If you have the sequence \uC774\uC624
    (i-o), it can be replaced and/or pronounced as \uC694 (yo), at least so said my
    Korean teacher, but this was years ago, so someone may correct me on the orthography.
    \ But in any case, the sequence \uC774\uC624 wouldn't ever be rendered /i\u0294o/,
    just /io/ or /jo/."
  created: '2010-11-25 14:55:24'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Gulfa,\r\n\r\nYou are quite right -- I was thinking specifically of a word-initial
    (or, more properly, utterance initial) rather than syllable-initial \u3147. And
    even in such cases, the glottal stop isn't phonemic so it would be a misleading
    description of the writing system.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-25 16:18:00'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "riccard0, maybe you might need to flush the DNS cache. \r\n\r\nAndr\xE9,
    Thank you, I will correct it.\r\nIs Andr\xE9 a French name? If it is, since your
    name is pronounced as /ang/, I think you might want to write your name as \uC559\uB4DC\uB808.
    ;)\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 17:17:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Andr\xE9 is definitely a French name, but the \"n\" in that name is not pronounced
    \"ng\". It is pronounced slightly differently from an \"n\" in English in that
    it is <em>nasalized</em>, and so the pronunciation might be transliterated in
    English as \"Onhdray\", but I don't think that's a distinction that can be expressed
    in Hangul."
  created: '2010-11-25 20:06:57'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "The French pronunciation would be [\xE3:d\u02C8\u0281e], but I use the English
    pronunciation [\u02C8\xE3:nd\u0279e\u026A\u032F]. I'm not sure if the final \u3147
    in Korean can be used to express nasalization of the vowel as well as [\u014B]
    -- if so, that would be appropriate for French, but not really for English (at
    least not phonemically -- many English speakers don't pronounce [n] before plosives,
    but that's a purely phonetic process). However, I appear to have gotten the rest
    right so you should be pleased with the effectiveness of your chart :-)\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-11-25 20:53:10'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nI am impressed!\r\nI actually thought you already knew how to
    write in Hangul before the Hangul wallpaper,  because it was flawless and... you
    even typed it! Writing is one thing, and typing is another matter. :) So, I was
    only nitpicking. \r\n \r\n\r\nQuadibloc, and Andr\xE9\r\nI should've asked if
    the name is pronounced as a French name. \r\n\r\nYes, the final \u3147is also
    used to express nasal vowels. It is actually a familiar foreign name to Koreans,
    since this French name is used by a very famous Korean fashion designer. His name
    was Andr\xE9 Kim and written as \uC559\uB4DC\uB808 \uAE40.  \r\n\r\nAndr\xE9,
    you were correct that you wrote your name as \uC548\uB4DC\uB808 as the English
    pronunciation. \r\nI am glad to know that the wallpaper was useful. :)"
  created: '2010-11-25 22:34:12'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I've just been learning Hangeul myself recently, and how to pronounce Korean.
    I might be wrong about some of this stuff, but here goes.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't use
    the idea of Spanish to describe the doubled consonants /bb/ /dd/ /gg/. As far
    as I know, the unvoiced plosive series /p/ /t/ /k/ in Spanish is just the basic,
    unaspirated, unvoiced plosive series, without any particular emphasis. So it would
    be closer to the sound of Korean /b/ /d/ /g/. I certainly wouldn't use the word
    \"pizza\" to describe Korean /jj/, because English speakers just use a simple
    /ts/ there. And people will just be puzzled when you say /ss/ is like the /s/
    in \"sun\" but not in \"slow\". \r\n\r\nThe tough part is, I don't know what to
    suggest you change these to. It's really hard to describe the doubled consonants
    concisely, because they're so unlike anything English speakers are used to. I
    guess you could say they're like the single series of ja-eum, but stronger (harder?).
    You might want to describe the single ja-eum as like their Spanish counterparts.
    Or, you could also do it like this: Korean /b/ is like the /p/ in \"spin\"; Korean
    /d/ is like the /t/ in \"stop\", and Korean /g/ is like the /k/ in \"skip\". After
    an /s/, English plosives aren't aspirated. Actually, you can even use this fact
    to distinguish between /j/ and /ch/: Korean /j/ is like the /ch/ in \"exchange\".
    But you won't be able to do anything like this for /ss/\u2014you may have to just
    say it's like /s/ but stronger, or maybe longer. (I'm not totally clear yet on
    the difference between /s/ and /ss/, so I'll have to let you think of the best
    word.)\r\n\r\nAltogether, it's a really cool poster. And despite having studied
    this a fair amount, I still learned stuff I didn't know, like how to pronounce
    /oe/. Fun idea. "
  created: '2010-12-06 03:52:34'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "Number3Pencils , Thanks for the review.\r\n\r\nI noticed that I used the
    Romanized letters in the IPA brackets. \r\nI did not realized these until you
    pointing them out, so I appreciate you telling me. \r\nYes, /bb/, /dd/, /gg/ are
    not the correct pronunciations. They should be\_/p\u0348/, /t\u0348/, and /k\u0348/.\r\n\r\nI
    also noticed that English speakers pronounce the Spanish 'c' in 'como' as just
    a simple /k/ instead of a strong /k/ as the native Spanish speakers do.\_\r\n\r\nThough
    '\u3149' is described as /ts/ in IPA, the 'zz' sound in 'pizza' sounds like \u3149
    to Koreans, which is different from the 'zz' in 'jazz'.\_\r\n\r\nSame for the
    's' in 'sun' and 'slow'.\_ \r\nI am not a linguistic specialist, so I do not know
    how to describe it with the correct colloquial terms. At any rate, English speakers
    pronounce the 's' in 'sun' and 'slow' differently, but mark it as the same phonetic
    symbol.\r\n\r\nThough you might not see the difference, Koreans hear the difference,
    because they have two different 's' sounds, which are \u3145 and \u3146. \r\n\r\nJust
    like Koreans notice the difference between the /z/ sound in 'jazz' and 'pizza',
    and the /k/ sound in English and Spanish. \r\n\r\nI totally understand why\_many
    English speakers do not recognize the tense(strong) consonant sounds as a separate
    pronunciation.\r\n\_\r\nMost Koreans do not notice the difference between the
    R and L sound.\_\r\nThey think it is just \"\u3139\".\_ \r\nThey do not have two
    different letters to identify the difference between the R and L sound. \r\nThe
    same issue occurs for the V and B sound; as Koreans just describe it as '\u3142'.\r\n\r\nHumans
    tend to recognize things based on their pre-learned knowledge. \r\nFor that reason,
    native Koreans usually have a hard time to pronounce them differently.\r\n\r\nRegardless,
    I see the confusion here so I will try to find other words for the clusters.\_\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    \u3142,\u3137,\u3131 sound can be different according to their positions in a
    syllable and in a word, and it is also\_affected by the final in the preceding
    syllable. \r\n\r\nNumber3Pencils ,\r\nWhat you said is correct sometimes, but
    not always.\_\r\nThe good news is, even if you pronounce \u3131 as always K,\_
    \u3142 as B, or \u3137 as D, Koreans still understand what you are trying to say,
    even if does not sound 100 percent correct in pronunciation (or if the spelling
    is wrong) to native Koreans. \r\nWhich means, even if \uAE40\uCE58 is correct
    and you write it as \uD0B4\uCE58, people still understand what you wrote, eventhough
    it is not the correct spelling. \r\n\r\nIt is a very different situation in English,
    since nobody would think it is the same word if you wrote Gimchi instead of Kimchi
    with the Roman alphabet.\_\r\nIt is because most\_Hangul words are created by
    pronunciation, not by spelling. Hangul was invented only 500 years ago, very long
    after the actual Korean language developed. And it was designed to \"mimic\" the
    existing sounds.\r\n\r\nLong story short, the main purpose of inventing 'Hangul'
    by Sejong the Great and his scholars, was to create an easy writing system for
    ordinary Koreans, especially women and commoners who did not have the privilege
    to learn 50,000 complicating Chinese letters. \r\n\r\nSo, it is told that Sejong
    the Great intentionally grouped certain sounds as the same Jamo to simplify the
    alphabet. (ex. the initials and the finals, and visualize the clustered consonants
    with basic a jamo(s).) There is much controversy on whether his decision was right,
    since Hangul does not represent every single sound in the world. (But does it
    have to?)\r\n\r\nThe wallpaper is an introduction guide for beginners, so I did
    not want to include too much information. But I believe this wallpaper helps people
    start without being overwhelmed. Yes, eventually they would need more advanced
    tutorials and I guess you are at that stage.\_\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback.
    \r\n\r\nI am grateful that everybody here is willing to provide their reviews
    and suggestions to improve the wallpaper. \r\nThanks to you, I have learned that
    I should stand more from a viewpoint of a learner, not as a teacher.\_\r\nThank
    you.\r\n\r\nDarim\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-09 01:52:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The "zz" in jazz and pizza are pronounced differently in English. Americans
    hear the difference, and the difference in pronunciation is indicated by different
    symbols in dictionaries. The "s" in sun and "slow" sound the same and are represented
    by the same symbols in the dictionaries. This is so in the Concise Oxford dictionary,
    for a start. So I think some of your information about English is not correct.    '
  created: '2010-12-09 04:21:39'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: English is English is English. No. What is written in dictionaries and other
    learned books is one thing. what is spoken on the streets is something else. There
    you have to deal with million minute variations. You may not notice them, but
    they are there.
  created: '2010-12-09 10:06:28'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@William,\r\n\r\nNor do I believe that I pronounce the /s/ in 'sun' and 'slow'
    differently. However, the pronunciation given in the COED cannot be used as evidence
    that no difference exists. English dictionaries aimed at English speakers give
    <em> phonemic </em> rather than phonetic pronunciations. The difference between
    /z/ and /ts/ is contrastive in English, which is why the dictionary notes this
    difference. Purely phonetic differences (e.g. the different vowel lengths in 'mat'
    and 'mad') are generally not indicated in dictionary pronunciations.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-09 13:53:35'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Try listening to yourself whisper the words.
  created: '2010-12-09 18:52:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "T\xE9, 'sun' has an aspiration before the s, like 'hsun' and slow does not?"
  created: '2010-12-09 22:46:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Andr\xE9, I take your point, and there are of course significant variations
    in the way English is pronounced around the world. However, I still don't see
    any difference in 'sun' and 'slow'. Here is an audio-visual demonstration of the
    four sibilants in American English: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crOZ6ckBwFo
    \ \r\n\r\nHere is the International Phonetic Alphabet: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Phonetic_Alphabet
    \r\n\r\nDarim, can you identify two sibilants here that are different in Korean,
    but regarded as the same in English? I can find on line pronunciation for all
    the English sounds, but not for others, unfortunately. Perhaps in Korean sites
    this is all explained.    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-09 22:47:04'
- author:
    name: Darim
    picture: 120275
  body: "I feel responsible that my explanation confused you even more.\_\r\nI think
    I shouldn't have said that native English speakers pronounce /s/ differently.
    Maybe it is only that Koreans hear it differently.\r\n\r\nHere are some nice links
    where you can actually hear the \u3145 and \u3146 sounds.\r\n\r\nThe /s/ sound
    as in 'sun' sounds like this to Koreans, which is a strong /s/ (\u3146),\r\n\r\n[[http://www.sayjack.com/learn/korean/hangul/#\uC2F8]]\r\n\r\nwhile
    the /s/ sound in 'slow' sounds like the following to Koreans, which is a softer
    /s/ (\u3145).\r\n\r\n\r\n[[http://www.sayjack.com/learn/korean/hangul/#\uC0AC]]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSo
    if Koreans describe the sound 'sun' with Hangul, it would be \"\uC36C\".\r\nIf
    you write 'sun' as '\uC120', Koreans will read it with the soft /s/ sound that
    you hear from the second link.\r\nWith the same reason, 'slow' will be written
    as '\uC2AC\uB85C\uC6B0', not '\uC4F8\uB85C\uC6B0'. If you write it as '\uC4F8\uB85C\uC6B0'
    using the same /s/(\u3146) sound as in 'sun'(\uC36C), Koreans will read it with
    the strong /s/ sound found in the first link.\_\r\n\r\nThe following youtube video
    is not related to the topic at all.\_ I only include this here so that you can
    hear how the sound of '\uC120' is different from '\uC36C' in Hangul, even if both
    are written as 'sun' in English.\r\nThis Korean guy's first name happens to be
    'Sun', but he pronounces it not as the English 'sun' sound. It is the soft /s/,
    because his name is written as '\uC120', not as '\uC36C' in Hangul.\r\n\r\nYou
    only need to watch the first ten seconds to hear how he pronounces his name 'Sun'.\_\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XlCuJa_bFS8&feature=channel]]\r\n\r\n\_\r\n\r\nThere
    still might be people who don't hear the difference between the two sounds. \r\nSo
    I think it might be better to describe \u3145, \u3146 with just a 'strong s' and
    'soft s', rather than giving example words. Even if it might be a bit ambiguous,
    it will help to avoid misunderstandings. \r\n\r\nThank you all for your opinions.
    \r\nWithout your help, I think I wouldn't have realized what I did wrong."
  created: '2010-12-09 23:28:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know I don't hear the difference between the voiced and unvoiced versions
    of \"th\", but most phonetic descriptions of English do include that distinction.
    As \"s\" is a similar sound, this distinction might exist for it as well.\r\n\r\nUsually,
    by English speakers, \"s\" is considered to be the unvoiced version of \"z\",
    but no distinction like <em>that</em> one exists for the two versions of \"th\",
    so the subtler distinction existing for \"th\" could also exist for \"s\"."
  created: '2010-12-10 05:10:28'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "From what I can tell by listening to the sound files you provided, and what
    I remember from hearing others, it sounds to me like the difference between /ss/
    and /s/ is that /s/ has some aspiration after it and /ss/ doesn't: /ss/ = [s]
    and /s/ = [s\u02B0]. Though I may be getting out of my depth, I would further
    guess that the reason Koreans transcribe the two sounds differently isn't because
    of a difference they hear in English speakers' speech, but because someone decided
    that an English /s/ + consonant should be transcribed with Korean \uC2A4 + consonant,
    but English /s/ + vowel should be transcribed with Korean jamo starting with \u3146,
    and then that just became a precedent. Like I said, I don't know if this is actually
    true, but it's what I'd guess happened. \r\n\r\nQuadibloc, the distinction between
    [s] and [z] in English is exactly the same as the distinction between [\u03B8]
    and [\xF0]: the first in each pair is unvoiced\u2014or at least, so I've learned
    in all my linguistics classes and so the IPA chart indicates. For a minimal pair
    between the two kinds of /th/, the classic example is \"thy\" versus \"thigh\"."
  created: '2010-12-10 08:30:37'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@WB - I found when whispering the words that I shape my mouth slightly differently
    for ''see'', ''sun'', ''slow'' and ''Sue'', leading to the sibilance in ''s''
    peaking at different frequencies.'
  created: '2010-12-10 09:54:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: To me the sound of the speaker in the video saying "sun" sounds like an unaspirated
    /th/, but a bit softer, like a lisp. To my ears, it doesn't sound like an english
    /s/. And it is quite a bit different from the /s/ in "slow".
  created: '2010-12-10 14:14:52'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>I know I don't hear the difference between the voiced and unvoiced
    versions of \"th\", but most phonetic descriptions of English do include that
    distinction. As \"s\" is a similar sound, this distinction might exist for it
    as well. </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Usually, by English speakers, \"s\" is considered
    to be the unvoiced version of \"z\", but no distinction like that one exists for
    the two versions of \"th\", so the subtler distinction existing for \"th\" could
    also exist for \"s\". </cite>\r\n\r\nThe distinction between /\u03B8/ and /\xF0/
    is <em> exactly </em> the same as the distinction between /s/ and /z/ -- unvoiced
    vs. voiced (cf. 'thigh' /\u03B8a\u026A\u032F/ and 'thy' /\xF0a\u026A\u032F/).
    There's nothing more subtle about it. The reason some English speakers find this
    more problematic (apart from the fact that the distinction isn't represented orthographically)
    is the fact that there are, for historical reasons, very few English words which
    differ only by these two sounds.\r\n\r\nThe Korean tense consonants involve an
    entirely different phonological contrast which, as far as I know, is found only
    in Korean (which is why providing a good description of it for non-Korean speakers
    is inevitably difficult).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-10 15:32:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There's also \"breath\" and \"breathe\", unaspirated and aspirated /th/,
    though the pronunciation of the vowel also changes. (I like the use of slashes
    here\u2014is that standard practice in linguistics?)"
  created: '2010-12-10 16:09:22'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<cite>(I like the use of slashes here\u2014is that standard practice in linguistics?)</cite>\r\n\r\nYes
    -- and to my dismay, some word processors and dtp programs ((cough) InDesign (cough))
    insist on always considering a slash a possible breaking point. Even if there
    is nothing before it!\r\n\r\nI suppose all other possible ways of bracketing phrases
    were already taken."
  created: '2010-12-10 16:10:33'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> There's also \"breath\" and \"breathe\", unaspirated and aspirated
    /th/, though the pronunciation of the vowel also changes. (I like the use of slashes
    here\u2014is that standard practice in linguistics?) </cite>\r\n\r\n'breath' and
    'breathe' are, again, examples of a difference in voicing. Aspiration is a different
    (though related) animal which is not contrastive in English (cf. 'stop' [st\u0251p]
    vs. 'top' [t\u02B0\u0251p]).\r\n\r\nIn linguistics, slashes are used to indicate
    phonemic transcription, whereas square brackets are used to indicate phonetic
    transcription.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2010-12-10 17:37:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Sorry, I meant to write \"voicing\". Thanks for the correction Andr\xE9."
  created: '2010-12-10 18:25:22'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "William, &lt; and &gt; are also used for orthography, so for instance:\r\n\r\n&lt;ate&gt;\r\n/\u0101t/\r\n[e\u026At\u02B0]\r\n\r\nEven
    though it's standard to use LT/GT, I've always thought it looks a lot nicer with
    \u2039these\u203A, though they can be small.  Perhaps a good linguistics font
    would have them maybe a bit larger than the guillomets but smaller than the gt/lt."
  created: '2010-12-11 20:29:01'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Imagine seeing a phonetics discussion here. A quick explanation of the two
    sibilants in Korean, if you don't mind going into detail:\r\n\r\nKorean stops
    (eg. \u3131, \u3132, \u314B) and affricates (\u3148, \u3149, \u314A) exhibit a
    3-way laryngeal contrast word-initially and intervocally (between vowels) between
    lenis, fortis, and aspirated consonants. However, there is only a 2-way contrast
    between \u3145 and \u3146. It is clear that \u3146 is fortis, but there is no
    general agreement on the nature of \u3145. In phonological processes, it behaves
    like lenis in some ways (becomes fortis after an obstruent like other lenis sounds)
    and aspirated in some ways (resists voicing to [z] even in voiced contexts). Best
    to label it non-fortis and allow that it has characteristics of both lenis and
    aspirated.\r\n\r\nAt the beginning of a word, \u3145 is clearly an aspirated [s\u02B0]
    as Number3Pencils suggests. The spectrogram of word-initial Korean \u3145 is remarkably
    similar to the sound transcribed as /s\u02B0/ for Burmese. Intervocally in faster
    speech, however, the aspiration is not as detectable. There, the best I can do
    to transcribe it is as [z\u0325], where the ring under is the devoicing diacritic,
    in this instance to mean that this is a lenis pronunciation. The glottis shapes
    as if to pronounce a [z], but there is no actual vibration of the vocal folds.
    In all positions, \u3146 is not much distinguishable from the usual [s] in most
    other languages, although intervocalic [s] in other languages tend to be somewhat
    weaker than \u3146 in the same position. One important point is that the vowel
    that follows \u3146 and other fortis consonants often takes on creaky voice, and
    this plays a big role in the perception of the fortis consonant. A final [s] in
    other languages is therefore likely to be heard as \u3145 as much as \u3146 because
    there is no following vowel to reinforce the fortis-ness.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I
    would prefer to transcribe \u3145 as /z\u0325\u02B0/ to indicate that it has characteristics
    of both lenis and aspirated, because transcribing \u3145 and not \u3146 as /s/
    is misleading to speakers of other languages.\r\n\r\nThe situation is more complicated
    when the sibilants are followed by front high vowels and semivowels. Then these
    become /\u0255/ or /\u0283/, and similar sounds in other languages are heard more
    as non-fortis \u3145. In these positions, \u3146 is pronounced with much more
    articulatory force than I've heard in any other language. Even the Russian \u0449
    /\u0255\u0255/ is much too weak to be \u3146."
  created: '2010-12-14 00:12:23'
date: '2010-11-18 02:57:40'
title: Periodic Table of Hangul

---
