---
author:
  name: ernst_bettler
body: "I'm working on a project about design by committee / consensus and I really
  need some help with it. Essentially the idea is to make a book with all the decisions
  about its design made within this forum. The aesthetics of the book - it's size,
  format, layout, typeface etc will all decided by the consensus in here.\r\n\r\nFirstly,
  what do people think about the size of the book should be? And in terms of the title,
  I have two starting points - 'A Camel is a Horse Designed by Committee' and 'Too
  Many Cooks'.\r\n\r\nI'd really appreciate any comments and suggestions on this project.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "This should be fun\u2026\r\n\r\nFirst: with \"cooks\" in the title is easily
    mistaken for a cooking book.\r\nSecond: A4 or B5 is always a good starting point,
    depending on the content. If it's just text, you could go with the standard pocket
    book B-size: 130 mm x 198 mm.\r\n\r\nBody text and headlines set in Adobe Caslon.\r\n\r\nThis
    is my two cents worth."
  created: '2010-11-18 20:25:43'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: "Thanks. I like the B-size (130mm x 198mm) and using cooks in the title could
    well lead to it being mistaken for a cooking book. That's a good point.\r\n\r\nDo
    you think Adobe Caslon for the whole book? or a different typeface for titles
    etc?\r\n\r\nAlso, should I start with a grid?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 20:31:04'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Well, Adobe Caslon is an excellent typeface, and since I know nothing of
    the content, that typeface is safe pick. And Adobe Caslon works really well in
    large sizes, so why not.\r\n\r\nWith a relatively small book, you should look
    at margins: you need to have room for fingers holding the book, so you could go
    with page numbering on top, and some 20 mm on top and outsides. Binding determines
    the inside margin: pocket book-style glue bind needs more than traditional binding,
    which opens more.\r\n\r\nOr you could go with traditional Golden Section. All
    time classic."
  created: '2010-11-18 20:53:25'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "I would like this book to be the B-size (130x198), yet it should also maintain
    the size of a broadsheet. It should be a tiny book that fits within a locket.
    \r\n\r\nIt should be waterproof.\r\n\r\nThe type should be large and dark and
    light and very small. Maybe a little of each.\r\n\r\nLets use a great many photographs
    except that photographs are too specifiying in their nature, so the photographs,
    the great many of them, should be illustrated and vague. The illustrator should
    be drawing out-of-focus. The lines should be sharp and crisp.\r\n\r\nIf we have
    a photograph of a woman, perhaps that will exclude the men. So lets make the photograph
    of a woman a drawing of a gender-neutral stick figure. Give the gender-neutral
    stick some curves and a purse and long dangling tresses. Let it practice weight-lifting
    in an all-male gym.\r\n\r\nIt should be a lavish book featuring die-cuts and varnishes
    and foil stamps, and it should be affordable and nearly without cost to produce.
    Take Marian's \"I Wonder,\" and the 7th Day Adventist's watchtower as influences.
    \r\n\r\nThe tone should be a light comedic thunderous proclamation. \r\n\r\nThe
    title should have the word \"Cooks\" in it, but without any reference to what
    happens in a kitchen.\r\n\r\n(Thank you for letting me vent a little.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-18 23:26:47'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I think the rear cover page should extend beyond the rest of the book (to
    the right and down) and have a drop shadow printed on it. '
  created: '2010-11-18 23:40:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>I think the rear cover page should extend beyond the rest of the book
    (to the right and down) and have a drop shadow printed on it.</em>\r\n \r\n+1"
  created: '2010-11-19 00:12:03'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "If designed by committee, a consensus wouldn't be reached on the title and
    it would be called:\r\n\r\n\"A Camel is a Horse Designed by Committee; or Too
    Many Cooks\"\r\n\r\nThe cover could show a bunch of cooks riding a camel.\r\n\r\n(Incidentally,
    having 2 titles is not unknown in the book world; for example \"Hans Brinker;
    or The Silver Skates\" and \"The Hobbit, or There and Back Again\"). \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 00:15:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"design by committee\"\r\nGood luck with that--'nuff said."
  created: '2010-11-19 01:07:11'
- author:
    name: rynblckbrn
  body: "Going with the \"design by committee\" theme, I think it'd be nice to include\r\nyour
    least favorite dace (Curlz MT, Hobo, Bleeding Cowboys, etc.) and include\r\nan
    article describing ONLY reasons why that face is successful, while leaving \r\nout
    anything that would resemble a negative comment.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, include
    a mark or identity that's terrible and follow the same\r\nprocedure."
  created: '2010-11-19 01:42:50'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "No, no, people-\r\n\r\nIt should be set in Caslon 14/16 pts. throughout,
    and cooks should not be mentioned on the title. It should be: \"Needless complexity,
    internal inconsistency, logical flaws, banality, and the lack of a unifying vision\".
    But the size should not be B-size (130x198), but A4 wide (297x210), with three
    (3) columns per (/) page.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1_4556.png]"
  created: '2010-11-19 12:38:50'
- author:
    name: Mugford
    picture: 121228
  body: "We'll never reach consensus until a committee chairperson with absolute executive
    power is elected. I nominate myself. My platform for election consists of the
    following policies:\r\n\r\n--The title shall be \"Mugford Designs a Camel; or
    How We Cooked a Camel [NOT A COOKBOOK]\"\r\n\r\n--Titles will be in Adobe Chaparral
    Pro Caption 24/28, and captions shall be in Adobe Chaparral Pro Light Display
    6 set solid.\r\n\r\n--Text will be set in ______ [to be determined later, but
    let's not fool ourselves, it'll probably be Caslon]\r\n\r\n--Page numbers shall
    be in 7-pt. Curlz Bold Italic.\r\n\r\n--The book will be printed letterpress,
    with an extra-deep impression on both sides because that is what is fashionable
    these days.\r\n\r\n--Paper shall be 8.5\"x11\", cut out of brown paper shopping
    bags with pinking shears for that jagged look that will be so popular with groupspeak
    researchers five years from now, then bound using the Japanese stab technique.
    A \"recycled\" icon shall be embossed on every page.\r\n\r\n--Since Curlz and
    Chaparral are for some reason not available in lead type, you will need to start
    punchcutting lessons ASAP. I have cornered the market on antimony so you will
    need to start fundraising too.\r\n\r\n--No photo-polymer plates can be used -
    that's \"cheating\".\r\n\r\n--The book will contain no photos, except of members
    of this committee. These photos will actually be woodcuts.\r\n\r\n--To appeal
    to an international audience, every third page should be printed with text running
    right-to-left.\r\n\r\n--I like the idea of the book fitting inside a locket. A
    subcommittee shall be formed to investigate the practial upper limits of locket
    size. Perhaps the book can be placed inside a gigantic clock hung around the neck
    like Flavor Flav - a \"clocket,\" as it were. Discuss.\r\n\r\n--If we are unable
    to source a large enough drop-shadow-back-cover, then the last page of every chapter
    should be a slightly larger drop shadow page, cut with slightly larger-toothed
    pinking shears from a slightly darker color of paper bag.\r\n\r\n--No ligatures
    may be used, with the exception of the \"Th\" ligature. Also, Phaeton catchwords
    shall be used for all instances of \"the,\" \"and,\" and \"of,\" unless \"The\"
    is at the beginning of a sentence, in which case the Caslon \"Th\" ligature shall
    be followed by a Phaeton \"e\".\r\n\r\n--Swashes everywhere!\r\n\r\nPlease support
    my campaign for chairperson.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 19:40:12'
- author:
    name: Mugford
    picture: 121228
  body: "Seriously though: B-size, Caslon, golden section, let's print this baby.\r\n\r\nI
    really think Curlz page numbers is a great idea though. Think it over.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-19 19:44:49'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: 'Is the Phaeton "e" a type of autorickshaw? If so, then: YES.'
  created: '2010-11-19 20:59:20'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "I can go with Curlz for page numbering, if it's set in Pantone Matching System
    (PMS) 8063. That's a lovely pink. But EVERYTHING ELSE must be Caslon.\r\n\r\nThe
    title should include \"THIS IS NOT A COOKBOOK\".\r\n\r\nLigatures are fine by
    me; excluding \"Th\".\r\n\r\nP.S. I should be the chairperson."
  created: '2010-11-19 21:21:56'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Caslon and Curlz are good, but Bram de Does makes a mean dash. I'm going
    to have to insist we license Trinit\xE9 for hyphens and Lexicon for emdashes."
  created: '2010-11-19 21:46:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm glad to see my drop shadow gain momentum.
  created: '2010-11-19 22:59:44'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "I think the book cover needs some zazz.  Can we emboss or die cut something?
    You guys decide how to do it. I'm just not going to settle for something boring.
    If you want more good ideas from me take me to lunch or something.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-20 01:42:33'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: jaja... funny
  created: '2010-11-20 05:41:14'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: Sans-serifs are all the rage. I suggest setting the title in Arial Bold. It's
    a sans-serif, meaning it looks quite retro, and will make the designer appear
    as though they are throwing out all of these "modern" design trends and showing
    the world what design should be.
  created: '2010-11-20 07:00:56'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "I suggest to create a custom typeface that combines Caslon (top part, as
    it was the first font suggestion) with Arial Black (lower part, not so bad after
    all, available for free and at least quite dark on the page). Cover: b/w pics
    of a cooking pot, top view, broth spilled all over it. You can tone the broth
    by adding a green layer in photoshop and select \u2018multiply\u2019! In order
    to avoid misunderstandings, heads with toques on it should be poking out of the
    broth. Make sure that the (transparent) text overlaps the randomly arranged pictures.
    Also, I\u2019d opt for spot UV varnish on the green broth."
  created: '2010-11-20 10:58:51'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "No, I think Caslon is out by popular demand, but Arial Bold is NOT the right
    alternative. We should go with IKEA, and make our OWN version of Verdana. As close
    to IKEA-version, as possible, because that is JUST BRILLIANT!!!\r\n\r\nI'm no
    too sure about that cooking pot, but that spot UV varnish is UTTERLY BRILLIANT!!!
    And embossing and die cut as well. And I really like green. And drop shadows!!!\r\n\r\nWe
    still have no title for this book, even though my suggestion has had HUGE following."
  created: '2010-11-20 21:29:12'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Painting the bike shed, indeed... *snickers*\r\n\r\nMy tuppenn'orth: Rundfunk
    for the book title. Front image: A bunch of cooks fussing over a camel, done in
    max. four colours."
  created: '2010-11-21 05:15:34'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Designing the Stop Sign\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wac3aGn5twc"
  created: '2010-11-21 05:24:50'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "The cover should, of course, be printed in four-color process, but to keep
    the budget down and save ink, it has to be three-color process. And one of the
    colors has to be yellow, as it's being used for all the subheads anyway.\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    though, I'm very interested in seeing how this turns out. Do you intend to publish
    it? Who will write the text?"
  created: '2010-11-23 05:22:28'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: "I've knocked together a cover and sample spread taking into account people
    ideas on the forum. I don't have Curlz for the numbers so i've used Verdana and
    the body text and title are in Adobe Caslon. What do people think? What should
    be changed?\r\n\r\nhttp://i1089.photobucket.com/albums/i350/ernst_bettler/How%20We%20Cooked%20a%20Camel/cover.jpg\r\n\r\nhttp://i1089.photobucket.com/albums/i350/ernst_bettler/How%20We%20Cooked%20a%20Camel/spread.jpg\r\n\r\nI've
    also put the InDesign file on MediaFire so people can edit the actual file if
    they want. The link for the the file is: http://www.mediafire.com/?5rpec6l1lem4zq6"
  created: '2010-11-23 21:20:15'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You should just print this thread as the content.
  created: '2010-11-23 22:42:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Aye.
  created: '2010-11-24 22:29:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<blockquote>I think the rear cover page should extend beyond the rest of
    the book (to the right and down) and have a drop shadow printed on it.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    suggest to create a custom typeface that combines Caslon (top part, as it was
    the first font suggestion) with Arial Black (lower part, not so bad after all,
    available for free and at least quite dark on the page).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Titles
    will be in Adobe Chaparral Pro Caption 24/28, and captions shall be in Adobe Chaparral
    Pro Light Display 6 set solid.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>You
    should just print this thread as the content.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFor sure.\r\n\r\nI
    propose that the illustrations be the user icon for each typophile who contributed.
    They should be blurred and with an added vignette. If desired, the typophiles
    can provide an alternate or higher resolution picture for themselves.\r\n\r\nAlso
    make sure to include a large photo of Pablo Impallari shirtless.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso
    I think there should be a lot of decoration on the pages.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But
    the size should not be B-size (130x198), but A4 wide (297x210), with three (3)
    columns per (/) page.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHow about B-size wide with three columns?"
  created: '2010-11-25 00:33:10'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Ernst \u2014\r\n\r\nI accepted your invitation to alter your files. Here
    is the layout with some text from this thread.\r\n\r\nhttp://i1219.photobucket.com/albums/dd438/jlangman/camelsample.jpg\r\n\r\nIt's
    just a basic design, although something that interprets each of the suggestions
    more literally could be lots of fun . . .\r\n\r\n(I'm not familiar with mediafire,
    but I can send you the ID file somehow if you want it.)\r\n\r\nI think using the
    text of this thread is a fabulous idea. What do you think?\r\n\r\nJosh"
  created: '2010-11-25 04:05:25'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: "\r\nThanks for your edited layout Josh. Using the text of this thread is
    a great idea. Perhaps we just need more content for the book. To flesh it out,
    as it were. \r\n\r\nAnd what do you think would be the best way to bring all these
    ideas together into one book?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 04:21:28'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: The way the thread plays out is almost works like a script. Maybe each person
    could have their own typeface?
  created: '2010-11-25 04:23:29'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: Also, can we come to a group decision about what the cover should look like?
  created: '2010-11-25 04:24:21'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "In the spirit of the committee I'm pretty sure we'll know if the cover is
    right when we see it, and it is right. But not before that time.\r\n\r\nThis thread
    makes alright copy for a preface. Maybe the main text should be done as an exquisite
    corpse. Someone needs to make a website allowing for the construction of exquisite
    corpses."
  created: '2010-11-25 09:02:51'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Josh's edit to the spreads look fantastic. Although, the captions need to
    be in Adobe Chaparral Pro Light Display 6 set solid. This is very important for
    the look of the book and for legibility. Also, someone still needs to try making
    the page numbers in a different font. Curlz MT was suggested earlier, but I think
    that font may be much too childish. We need to try something by Ale Paul.\r\n\r\nI
    think the cover as we currently have it has nothing of interest. Perhaps the cover
    should have all of the committee's user icons, either arranged in a grid fashion,
    or haphazardly. Thoughts?\r\n\r\nThe color also needs work. Yellow works for fontshop,
    but we're trying to make a classy book here. I think we'll all agree that blue
    with green and white text will work best. Also I think that Caslon works great
    for the text, but the cover needs something else. Alrt Text anyone?\r\n\r\nThe
    binding and paper choices. tmac suggested it be waterproof. Typophiles are notorious
    for doing things near water. The paper should be waterproof, and if the text doesn't
    run too long, hand-stitched fishing line binding. It should come wrapped in mylar."
  created: '2010-11-25 23:21:48'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "\"The paper should be waterproof, and if the text doesn't run too long, hand-stitched
    fishing line binding.\"\r\n\r\nWow. This is the right thing to do. Everyone likes
    a thing that can do two unrelated tasks -- for example, a television that produces
    toast, or a meat carving knife that makes a serviceable head rest. Therefore,
    you should be able to catch fish with this book."
  created: '2010-11-26 00:25:56'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I didn't think of being able to actually catch fish with the book! But it
    would be very useful! So, this book will also be a survivor's tool! The back should
    be die-cut with an upside-down U, and a right-side up U underneath. Then extra
    fishing line coming off the binding should wind over it, and have a hook on the
    end.
  created: '2010-11-26 03:23:10'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Like this, maybe:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papercoil_3440.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    would work well, too, because we're already die-cutting the cover to make the
    back larger for the drop-shadow. Since it needs to be waterproof, and the cover
    also has to be strong for the fishing line to be coiled on it and not break, I
    propose plastic for the cover."
  created: '2010-11-26 08:10:54'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Who votes to make a large photo of Pablo Impallari shirtless the frontispiece?\r\n\r\nIt
    should, of course, have a vignette and added blurring near the edges."
  created: '2010-11-26 08:18:55'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: "Hand stitch fish-line binding is do-able. How do people think this 'drop-shadow
    back' should / could work?\r\n\r\nI'm going to put together some revised options
    for the cover and spreads up so we can resolve the final design.\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-30 00:59:41'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<blockquote>How do people think this 'drop-shadow back' should / could work?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    can think of two ways:\r\n\r\n1. It could be die-cut with the back larger\r\n2.
    The binding could be done japanese style, with a larger sheet of paper for the
    back cover"
  created: '2010-11-30 06:48:51'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "Why can't we be a bit more creative? I think this team is falling apart,
    you're all rubbish!\r\n\r\nWe need the first page with the publication details
    to be printed on edible ricepaper."
  created: '2010-11-30 13:07:40'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: And the book will also cook your dinner if you ask it nicely.
  created: '2010-11-30 19:42:44'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<blockquote>We need the first page with the publication details to be printed
    on edible ricepaper.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAlthough this would break the already
    established waterproof rule... But if it's intended to be eaten anyway, I guess
    it doesn't matter?"
  created: '2010-11-30 20:16:35'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Well, the book could be sold in a ricepaper wrapper. After you eat the wrapper,
    you can use the waterproof book inside to go fishing. Or, alternatively, you immerse
    the book in water to make the wrapper dissolve so you can open the book. I would
    definitely like to see this manufactured!
  created: '2010-11-30 20:29:59'
- author:
    name: ernst_bettler
  body: "http://i1089.photobucket.com/albums/i350/ernst_bettler/How%20We%20Cooked%20A%20Camel_02/cover_02.jpg\r\n\r\nHere's
    another possible cover design i've put together. What do people think?\r\n\r\nI've
    uploaded it to MediaFire again so people can edit the existing file again.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mediafire.com/?34zh78zsizs661x"
  created: '2010-12-01 01:59:59'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "So much more interesting! I think this is a big improvement. Just a couple
    things:\r\n\r\nWhy green? (Although we could easily ask why about anything else
    associated with this project, so I suppose green is as justifiable a choice as
    any.)\r\n\r\nCould you do something more evocative with the icons than arrange
    them in a grid? Perhaps arrange them so as to suggest a camel, etc.?\r\n\r\nJosh"
  created: '2010-12-01 03:32:11'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Here is the final cover, if approved:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover3_4887.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    think the cover needed spicing up and added some Japanese text. Also I got a random
    camel image off Google to use for the cover. This is perfectly legal. (Unless
    it is considered camel pornography....)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Well, the book could
    be sold in a ricepaper wrapper. After you eat the wrapper, you can use the waterproof
    book inside to go fishing. Or, alternatively, you immerse the book in water to
    make the wrapper dissolve so you can open the book. I would definitely like to
    see this manufactured!</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI like ricepaper idea. People could
    also use the ricepaper wrapper to write on if they happened to run out of paper.
    Also, this would match with the Japanese style open-spine binding....\r\n\r\nIn
    regards to the fishhook to use, I'd recommend a #11 fishhook. These are probably
    the most versatile for catching fish in general."
  created: '2010-12-01 21:24:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Make the logo bigger!
  created: '2010-12-01 23:59:07'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover3_4153.2.jpg]\r\n\r\nProbably the
    camels should have UV coating.\r\n\r\nWho knows of some good waterproof paper?"
  created: '2010-12-02 06:33:26'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: The Underware boys must know about waterproof books, wasn't Sauna's specimen
    book printed like that? I like the UV coating idea for the camels. If the paper
    end up being glossy, we might consider matt coating for the beasts.
  created: '2010-12-02 14:17:48'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: 'I don''t really like the swash on the A in ''How We Cooked A Camel''. '
  created: '2010-12-04 00:23:53'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: What is the translation of the Japanese text?
  created: '2010-12-04 05:23:40'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: '"Cook A Camel"'
  created: '2010-12-04 16:17:28'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "http://www.\r\n\r\nis missing"
  created: '2010-12-04 16:48:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Also I got a random camel image off Google to use for the cover. \r\n>
    This is perfectly legal. \r\n\r\nActually I doubt if this is a \"fair use\" situation,
    even if you're a student, since you are not discussing the photographer's work
    but instead are simply using his copyrighted image for your own, unrelated purposes.
    \ \r\n\r\nThis isn't intended as a criticism, it's just a comment, as I know this
    is just a hypothetical project."
  created: '2010-12-04 17:22:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@JamesM: \"> Also I got a random camel image off Google to use for the cover.\r\n>
    This is perfectly legal.\"\r\n\r\nI think you may have missed the satire in that,
    James. Since this whole project is just a spoof and intended as a humorous display
    of all the things that go wrong with \"Design by committee\", I think his comment
    on \"perfectly legal\" is right on target with the rest of the thread."
  created: '2010-12-04 19:26:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I think you may have missed the satire in that, James.\r\n\r\nOkay, sorry
    if I misunderstood."
  created: '2010-12-05 02:20:07'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<em>http://www. is missing</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www. is superflous. Type that
    url without the prefix, it works."
  created: '2010-12-05 05:18:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't know, Brian, the Suits always get nervous when we leave out the www.
    Can't we at least just keep it  until the VP of Customer Outeach retires?
  created: '2010-12-05 05:24:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: You could try to ease them into it by dropping the protocol part and begin
    at www. Plus, nothing says "web address" like the www.
  created: '2010-12-05 05:44:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Well, I suppose I could talk him into dropping the http// part and tell him
    it is more chic?
  created: '2010-12-05 17:03:38'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Maybe..... But anything with a .com in it definitely says "I am a website"
  created: '2010-12-06 04:51:10'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: We seriously need to blind emboss the title in braille.
  created: '2010-12-06 07:25:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Then we also need to mace a photograph of the embossed braille and print it
    on the cover as well, so the sighted people will be able to see it ;-)
  created: '2010-12-06 15:55:25'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<em>We seriously need to blind emboss the title in braille.</em>\r\n\r\nIs
    that in the budget?"
  created: '2010-12-06 18:21:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Dude! The old guy who like, approves the budget is like, blind, like, y'know?
  created: '2010-12-06 19:00:52'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yeah, it might be enough just to make sure the companion website is accessible
    for vision-impaired visitors.\r\nThere is a companion website, right?"
  created: '2010-12-06 19:01:50'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Oh. I think this is the companion website....
  created: '2010-12-06 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was supposed to be but some dude named Craig never finished it!  He,
    like, went to play some weird thing with stones on ice and brooms and \xDFhit--wtf
    is that about?"
  created: '2010-12-06 19:14:40'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Think typophile could pass as vision-impaired accessible?
  created: '2010-12-06 20:03:09'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "\"http://www. is superflous. Type that url without the prefix, it works.\"\r\n\r\nI
    suspect the committee does not agree with this comment. If people don't type in
    http:// they might end up on some government network accidentally, and then we'll
    be faced with wikileaks IV.\r\n\r\nI'm not even sure the audience will know they
    should use a computer with the URL, or that the audience will even know what computer
    is.\r\n\r\nDifficulties abound."
  created: '2010-12-06 20:27:16'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "You can't end up on a government network by not typing the prefix into the
    address bar in a browser.\r\n\r\n<em>I'm not even sure the audience will know
    they should use a computer with the URL, or that the audience will even know what
    computer is.</em>\r\n\r\nHmm... Who is our audience...? We'll have to find one
    that fits the description of not knowing to use a computer with the URL, or that
    doesn't know what a computer is.\r\nMaybe it would be best to add some instructions
    in simple English so that any layman or infant can understand. Probably should
    use an asterisk.\r\nBut they might mistake it as part of the URL. So we'll have
    to set it apart somehow."
  created: '2010-12-06 20:44:25'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Well, I consulted with the committee and we're all quite sure if you don't
    type http:// there's at least a small risk of ending up on a terror watch list,
    or at least having a hard time renewing your passport.\r\n\r\nWhat do you make
    of that? Is it alarmist?"
  created: '2010-12-06 21:04:04'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Skywalker,\r\n\r\nEven on your profile page you use http:// for the sake
    of safe navigation.\r\n\r\nQED"
  created: '2010-12-06 21:08:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: How about a compromise? We can have a Little Paperclip Guy icon you can click
    and it will automatically walk you through "knowing how to use the computer" with
    both Kanji and Latin script!
  created: '2010-12-06 21:43:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>Hmm... Who is our audience...?</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    committee is the committee\u2019s audience is the committee."
  created: '2010-12-06 21:49:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Riccardo, we will have to appoint a committee to define the Committee's audience
    but they should be made up of the Committee's audience.  We will need a focus
    group to do that.  Looks like we will have to hire my "niece" Bambi to arrange
    that. ;-J
  created: '2010-12-06 21:56:34'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "<blockquote>Skywalker,\r\n\r\nEven on your profile page you use http:// for
    the sake of safe navigation.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAha. That is only necessary on-line.
    Once printed it is entirely superfluous. However I found the solution:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover3_5406.3.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-06 22:42:31'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: I wonder if I'm the only one who tried to use the scroll bars.
  created: '2010-12-06 22:57:07'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I didn't.
  created: '2010-12-06 23:02:20'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: So is this now an eBook?
  created: '2010-12-07 05:28:04'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: Tricky to add UV coating to an eBook. I'd like it to be a printed book. Also
    a waterproof printed book can be read in a bath, but eBooks are not waterproof
    (or is there a waterproof reader?).
  created: '2010-12-07 07:09:37'
- author:
    name: SciTechEngMath
  body: "The solution to the URL ambiguity is obvious \u2013 you simply need to add
    clip art of a computer next to it, so that it shows that the URL is meant to be
    put into a computer. Maybe also prefix it with \"URL:\" to make sure people know
    it is a uniform resource locator, though. Maybe also an inviting line like \"Find
    us on the web...\" Yes, that'll definitely help this.\r\n\r\nOh, and I know I'm
    chiming in a bit late, but for my 2 cents on the text design: make sure to use
    historical ligatures, because the little curve joining \"st\" and \"ct\" really,
    really helps readability for modern eyes. And all numbers should be done with
    lc, italic roman numerals for that added air of class. When used with the full
    caps for the headings (we're using full caps for the headings, right?), the font
    size of the numerals should be doubled to make the lowercase letters rise to the
    cap height."
  created: '2010-12-08 02:27:53'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Hmm, I think you're right on the ligatures.\r\n\r\nMaybe for the browser,
    so that we can appeal to a more diverse audience, we should use the Mosaic web
    browser."
  created: '2010-12-09 18:04:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: No! No!, It must be AOL's browser.
  created: '2010-12-09 19:49:20'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Alas, you can only visit website's in AOL's network with that.
  created: '2010-12-10 01:37:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, but that  is what the CFO's wife always uses!
  created: '2010-12-10 06:09:44'
- author:
    name: SciTechEngMath
  body: 'I''ve got a solution: we put the AOL browser on the front cover to show how
    friendly it is (and to keep the CFO''s wife happy), then when you open it, the
    first thing you see is the cover is reproduced in IE6 (because that''s the only
    other browser worth using, right?) and a big headline that says "ALSO COMPATIBLE
    WITH..." Full caps, bold, italic, underlined to make sure the message gets across.'
  created: '2010-12-10 16:59:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: :-/
  created: '2010-12-10 17:20:32'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: Maybe we need to use AOL's browser for the cover, and then sport the cover
    reproduced in w3m on Debian Potato inside. Via xterm. :) Preferably using amiwm.
  created: '2010-12-12 00:46:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I think I can buy into that.
  created: '2010-12-12 01:11:01'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Alrighty! Unfortunately I don't have Debian Potato. However Amiwm on the
    latest Debian SID should look the same, considering it has hardly changed in over
    a decade.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/insidecover_5371.png]"
  created: '2010-12-13 02:51:24'
date: '2010-11-18 19:41:29'
title: Design By Committee / Book Project

---
