---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "Eliyahu Korngold, later Koren, was considered one of the greatest Hebrew type
  designers during the mid 20th century.\r\n\r\nKoren's landmark work, named after
  his Israelized surname, was initially created in the 1950s. The design was based
  upon a hand-written document of the section of the Prophets, attributed to the Moshe
  ben Asher geneza, of scrolls belonging to the Karaite community, a pariah sect to
  normative Judaism.\r\n\r\nThis design was drawn and redrawn many times, both before
  and after his employment by the Koren Publishers Jerusalem Ltd., which he founded
  in 1961. Koren spent most of his career at the Jewish National Fund, where most
  of this typeface design was created, under the JNF's auspices.\r\n\r\nThe design
  was finally used in the Koren Bible in 1962, but was never created as an outline
  typeface. Koren printed his siddur in 1981 at the age of 74. Instead, a digital
  type company in Israel used its software code for two products: the Koren Bible
  typeface, and its own identical typeface. Later, the Israeli company called 'Koreen'
  (and widened one letter). Koren approved the design.\r\n\r\nShmuel Guttman created
  another typeface, called 'Keren', in digital form in 1993, prior to the Koren Bible
  digital typeface. His typeface features many significant differences, but maintains
  the basic look-and-feel of the Koren Bible design. Koren never approved Guttman's
  design.\r\n\r\nI also created a set of typeface software, which I called 'Crown'.
  They are based upon large drawings created by an unnamed talented graphic artist,
  perhaps from the former USSR. The software was created in the United States, where
  it was registered for US Copyright at the Library of Congress in Washington, DC,
  in 1989. My design is based upon ancient manuscripts as well, and modified to comply
  with the various instructions, as expressed in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eliyahu_Koren,
  regarding legibility and readability."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Crown\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crown_text_4220.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Crown_Bold_4765.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-19 09:24:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Shmuel Guttman's Keren\r\n\r\nCan you spot his design improvements?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Crown_vs_3_Korens_6109.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-19 17:46:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Look close at Koreen and Koren\r\n\r\nAre they the very same, except for
    the hei?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koren and koreen_5016.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-19 21:16:11'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Now at Shmuel Guttman's Keren.\r\n\r\nAre they really the same?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g_k_6045.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-19 21:22:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The Lamed and the Ayin:\r\nEliyahu Koren's Biggest Failings\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lamed
    and ayin_5801.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-20 23:06:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Why were these Eliyahu Koren's giant failings?\r\nWhy were these Shmuel Guttmann's
    great improvements?"
  created: '2010-11-20 23:56:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Take a good look at each one again.\r\n\r\nKoren's in in blue (cyan), and
    Guttman's is in red.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lameds_3809.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nLet
    us superimpose the Koren version over Guttman's version.\r\nWe see that they have
    different dimensions. But most importantly, the special unique quality that Guttman
    introduced is blocked.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lameds2_3569.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 06:38:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "PK, let us look at the ayins now.\r\n\r\nTake a good look at each one again.\r\n\r\nKoren's
    in in blue (cyan), and Guttman's is in red.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ayins_5006.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nLet
    us superimpose the Koren version over Guttman's version.\r\nWe see that they have
    different dimensions. But most importantly, the special unique quality that Guttman
    introduced is blocked.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ayins2_6343.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    what are the differences?"
  created: '2010-11-21 06:50:57'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "OK. I give up. What is the difference?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lameds3_5416.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWhy
    is this significant, as we all learn in art school?"
  created: '2010-11-21 06:59:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Significance of a Large Graphic Element at the Top of an Image and a Smaller
    Graphic Element at the Bottom of an Image\r\n\r\nThe eye of every viewer moves
    from top to bottom. This is known as \"eye movement\". It starts naturally at
    the top of an image, and moves down to the bottom of the image. Without an unusual
    additional graphic image at the bottom of the image, the artist risks losing the
    viewers interest before they reach the the bottom of the image. This is a basic
    concept taught in art school. Guttmann applied it to the graphic form of the lamed;
    Koren did not.\r\n\r\nIf we look in very old Hebrew manuscripts, early scribes
    failed to include this feature, because of either the nature of scribal arts,
    or because the issue of expedience. Yet, we see in all later letter form designs,
    type designers included this feature. The only exceptions to these rules are sans
    serif mono-lined letter-forms, like those of Tzvi Narkiss."
  created: '2010-11-21 14:16:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What about the Ayin?\r\nHow did Guttman correct the fundamental flaw which
    Koren failed to address?"
  created: '2010-11-21 14:18:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "How is the Ayin of Guttmann different than the Ayin of Koren?\r\nWhy is Guttmann's
    a major improvement, specifically for Biblical Text?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ayins3_6073.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 15:06:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The difference that stands out is the slope of the lower leftwards bar of
    the Ayin.\r\nKoren's slope is way too low, and will collide into taam combined
    with nikud.\r\nThe angle of Guttman's slope is less degrees, and will collide
    much less.\r\nFor this reason, more than any other, Koren had to set his so-called
    \"classic\" Koren Bible with the nikud, taam, and meteg so far below the Hebrew
    text."
  created: '2010-11-21 15:12:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I handle the Ayin in a different way, by introducing a new form of Ayin,
    where the lower left bar is raised completely to the baseline, while preserving
    a lower left bar when there are no diacriticals.\r\n\r\nSee the following example.
    Place your attention on the green colored combinations.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth
    - GHB Crown v1_6402.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 15:52:35'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel,\r\n\r\nYour design vs. Koren; so I don't get the \"Let us superimpose
    the Koren version over Guttman's version.\r\nWe see that they have different dimensions.
    But most importantly, the special unique quality that Guttman introduced is blocked\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compareA_4386.png]\r\n\r\nPost
    a sample, a pdf, 8pt,  to 15pt (with/without nikkud), Koren, Crown etc etc something
    like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compareB_5811.png]\r\n\r\nI
    don't 'read' letters, but words."
  created: '2010-11-21 20:50:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Guttman's Keren vs JNF's Koren used by KPJ\r\n\r\nDavid,\r\n\r\nBesides introducing
    new dimensions to all letters, Shmuel Guttmann also created a new lamed, which
    is graphically correct, and a new ayin, to allow better placement of diacritic
    marks, as shown above, and demonstrated again below.\r\n\r\nHere, Guttmann raised
    the lower vertical bar on the left side, to allow better placement of diacritic
    marks.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ayins3_3554.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHere,
    Guttman added a notch on the end of the lower vertical bar, creating better balance
    and adhering to a principle taught in art school.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lameds3_6731.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nIn
    the context or a comparison of words, see this example.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample_ayin_lamed_4539.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 21:54:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here is a larger example.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample_ayin_lamed2_3616.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 22:05:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The more I look at the very letters of Guttman's design, I seeing more and
    more design improvements.\r\n\r\nClearly, KPJ should drop this suit against Microsoft.
    If anything JNF should sue them on legitimate grounds.\r\n\r\nI think I want to
    redraw my Crown, and rename it Guttman!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample_ayin_lamed3_3436.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-21 22:23:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have found a Hebrew manuscript the writing in which suggests some features
    of Koren. It is... somewhat \"hidden in plain sight\". I may have noted it in
    passing, while looking about for a closer match.\r\n\r\nThe Aleppo Codex.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that Shmuel Guttman's Keren has features which are not present in Koren.
    But even if I preferred that typeface because of those features, I would be very
    hesitant in characterizing those features as \"design improvements\", or otherwise
    implying that they made the face <em>objectively better</em>.\r\n\r\nTo me, that
    seems like pointing at the letter \"h\" in Times Roman, indicating the serifs,
    and comparing it with Helvetica, and then concluding that Times Roman is much
    better than Helvetica, because the people who designed Helvetica left out this
    important feature.\r\n\r\nYes, Koren is missing features you would find in Drugulin
    or Frank-Ruehl. But that was an intentional result of the kind of typeface it
    was intended to be. Keren was perhaps less daring, and put back subtle vestiges
    of the more conventional faces. That doesn't seem to be a design mistake <em>either</em>
    way, but a matter of taste in both cases."
  created: '2010-11-23 01:59:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nThank you for your comments and observations. They are always
    thoughtful and reflect much perception.\r\n\r\nI am curious about which document
    you found, and why it is \"hidden in plain sight\". Are you referring to the Aleppo
    Codex, found at http://www.aleppocodex.org/aleppocodex.html.\r\n\r\nClearly, this
    and Moshe ben Asher's father codex were Eliyahu Koren's major influences.\r\n\r\nWe
    agree to disagree abput whether Shmuel Gutmann's contributions to Keren, a derivative
    work of Eliyahu Koren's Koren, were in deed \"design improvements\".\r\n\r\nClear,
    in my opinion, they are not comparable to the differences in Times-Roman and in
    Helvetica, for they are not radical, but very subtle.\r\n\r\nAs David pointed
    out, the dimensions of Keren are better suiting to typesetting that those of Koren.
    Remember, Koren worked from sketches of hand-scribed letters of ancient documents;
    they were not typeset documents.\r\n\r\nAs I pointed out, the letter forms feature
    minor details that enhance the letter forms and are in tune with good rules of
    graphic design from any proper art school. Eliyahu Koren was not interested in
    enhancing the shapes of the Koren letter form, or adhering to good rules of graphic
    design from any proper art school. He want to recreate an ancient design for modern
    typesetting of the Bible.\r\n\r\nIn my view, his creation is either the property
    of his first employee, the Jewish National Fund, under whom he created most of
    what we know as Koren, or to his direct descendants - according to Jewish law
    only. Yet, since the JNF has clearly forfeited its rights, the rights to the Koren
    design are in the public domain, as it the text of the Bible. \r\n\r\nCertainly,
    Shmuel Gutmann's design enhancements are significant enough to render his version,
    called Keren, a creative work, just as Goudy's Garamond has been usurped by Adobe
    Garamond for the latter's creative work."
  created: '2010-11-23 17:21:51'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "This is very very funny indeed. You are comparing 4 interpretations of the
    Koren font to each other. You should be comparing them to the original thing that
    Eliyahu Koren designed. \r\n\r\nNONE OF THESE FONTS ABOVE WERE DESIGNED BY ELIYAHU
    KOREN.\r\n\r\nKoreen MF and Koren MF of course are the same. Who said they were
    different? THEY ARE THE SAME FONT issued by Masterfont. IT IS NOT THE REAL KOREN
    FONT. \r\n\r\nIf anybody would like to buy the real Koren font design by Eliyahu
    Koren, they are welcome to purchase it from Masterfont. But please, DO NOT JUDGE
    THE KOREN FONT from the interpretations above.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-24 17:28:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nWhat is the \"real Koren font\"?\r\n\r\nClearly, it is not
    software, using scalable outline typeface software.\r\n\r\n\r\nIs it what appears
    in the Koren Bible? \r\nIs it based upon the final set of drawings that Koren
    drew? \r\nHave they ever been published?\r\n\r\nWhat exactly is for sale at Masterfont,
    if not the Koren MF or Koreen MF fonts? \r\n\r\nWhat is the difference between
    the real Koren font design by Eliyahu Koren, and between Koreen MF and Koren MF?"
  created: '2010-11-24 17:40:03'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "What I call the \"real Koren font\", is the font that Eliyahu Koren designed
    and appears in the Koren Bible and all Koren books including siddurim, machzorim
    etc.\r\n\r\nI'm not talking about software since this is a forum about type. Once
    upon a time it was lead, now it's Opentype and in the middle various technologies
    such as linotype etc were in the middle.\r\n\r\nMasterfont sells 2 fonts under
    the Koren name. Until 3 years ago, they sold an interpretation of Koren that they
    called Koreen MF and Koren MF (I don't know why the name changed or when) and
    they now also sell the Koren font that Eliyahu Koren designed which we licensed
    to them under exclusive arrangement. It's not \"based\" on anything, they are
    one and the same. The Koren Tanakh font that is available from Masterfont is identical
    to what is in the Tanakh. If you don't believe me, go to www.korenpub.com, buy
    an original Koren Bible from 1962, http://www.korenpub.com/EN/products/tanakh/sifrei_tanakh/9789653010741
    and then buy a Koren Sacks Siddur (a little cheaper) http://www.korenpub.com/EN/products/siddur/Shabbat_Siddurim/9789653010673
    and you can compare for yourself.\r\n\r\nIn terms of comparison, your Crown is
    much similar to KoreenMF than either of the fonts are to Koren Tanakh. In fact,
    when you posted your Crown, I thought you had posted KoreenMF and then realised
    that yours wasn't finished (at least I hope it's not finished)"
  created: '2010-11-24 17:58:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nKoreen was created AFTER Crown by many years. \r\n\r\nCrown
    was created in 1989. Its printed code was submitted and accepted for registration
    at the US Copyright Office, at the Library of Congress, in Washington, DC. \r\n\r\nWhat
    did MasterFont use as original drawings when it created Koreen?\r\n\r\nIf I understand
    you correctly, Koreen and Koren are identical, also in software code - the only
    difference is business related. Koreen is not licensed. Koren is, exclusively.\r\n\r\nSo,
    there is a third Masterfont font, called the \"Koren Tanakh\" font; it is available
    from Masterfont. Where? Can you provide a link?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I decided to incorporate
    Shmuel Gutmann's features into Crown, for they are truly great enhancements. Do
    Koren or Koren Tanakh have rounded edges?"
  created: '2010-11-24 18:15:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  If anybody would like to buy the real Koren font design
    by Eliyahu Koren, they are welcome to purchase it from Masterfont. \r\n\r\nFrom
    where? Can you provide a link? What is for sale: photographically enlarged pictures
    of letters used in the Koren Bible? Copies of the master?"
  created: '2010-11-24 18:32:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@raphaelfreeman: After your most recent post, I think I understand you now,
    even though your previous post had me confused.\r\n\r\nMasterfont sells two products
    including Koren in their names. One is \"Koren MF\", and the other is \"Koren
    Tanakh\".\r\n\r\n\"Koren MF\" is just Koreen, which is similar to Koren, but which
    differs because a couple of letters are wider.\r\n\r\n\"Koren Tanakh\" is, however
    the real original typeface designed by Eliyahu Koren.\r\n\r\nI hope I understand
    you correctly now.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, \"Keren\" is the name of a sans-serif typeface,
    and the Keren being discussed here is sold as GuttmanKeren, and was bundled along
    with other faces by Shmuel Guttman with some applications for preparing Hebrew
    documents, such as DavkaWriter.\r\n\r\nHis faces based on Keren, Miriam, David,
    and other popular Hebrew faces <em>do</em> appear to be more pleasing than the
    originals in some aspects, but this appears to have been achieved by compromising
    the original artistic intent of those faces by incorporating into his designs
    more elements of traditional Hebrew faces.\r\n\r\nThe guy who designed Spartan
    for Intertype wasn't breaking any laws in the U.S. at the time - and given the
    price of a big, heavy typecasting machine, forcing people to choose one based
    on the availability of faces instead of its own technical merits was such a problem
    that I can't really criticize the ethics of the copying of font designs that went
    on in the era of hot metal or film phototypesetting. Today, with fonts sold in
    standard formats for use on standardized computer platforms, the situation is
    different, but I do not know enough about the history of the sale of Shmuel Guttman's
    faces to make any comment on whether or not there are ethical issues there or
    not.\r\n\r\nEven if there are no ethical issues, though, I can understand that
    some people will feel themselves justified in perceiving his activities as...
    <em>annoying</em>. Despite it being entirely possible that his faces are preferable
    to the originals!"
  created: '2010-11-24 23:16:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S., Raphael,\r\n\r\nIf I may summarize:\r\n\r\nThere are four typefaces
    by Masterfont.\r\n1. Koreen - in Regular and Bold\r\n2. Koren - exactly the same
    as Koreen Regular, but the hei is wider in Koreen, perhaps others, perhaps none
    at all\r\n3. Koren Tanakh - exactly the same as Koreen Bold\r\n\r\nThere are two
    typefaces by Guttman, somewhat like Koreen Regular and Bold, or Koren and Koren
    Tanakh. Guttman's typefaces have many design differences than those by Eliyahu
    Koren and Masterfont, perceived by many as improvements to the original designs.\r\n\r\nWhen
    John Baskerville tried to improve upon William Caslon's design, and later a whole
    slew resulted. Did Caslon's descendants sue Baskerville for creating an \"improvement\"
    or \"annoyed\" version of Caslon's original work? \r\n\r\nAfter Goudy made Garamond,
    based upon others typeface designs before him, did Goudy's descendants sue about
    the various versions of Garamond?\r\n\r\nPerhaps, the same applies to Paul Renner's
    Futura versus Linotype's version, called Spartan - I haven't compared them. \r\n\r\nHow
    is this Koren (aka Koreen) versus Keren issue anything different?\r\n\r\nEthical
    issues? How was Baskerville's work ethical? How were Goudy's successors ethical?
    How is Monotype's (Boruch Gorkin) Arial-Hebrew ethical? etc. etc.\r\n\r\nEthical
    in my view pertains to ethics, not creativity.\r\n\r\nIn the State of Israel,
    there is law against incitement, which in the United States we would insist that
    Israel's law against incitement violates 1st Amendment rights of Freedom of Speech.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps, in Israel we need such a law against incitement, because of volatility
    of that region. But it is misused.\r\n\r\nBut, really isn't the same: such a law
    against incitement stifles freedom of speech, just as the Israeli typeface design
    rights stifle creativity in typeface design?"
  created: '2010-11-25 04:03:35'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "quadibloc: yes you understand correctly.\r\n\r\ngohebrew: no, you keep summarizing
    incorrectly, so I will try one more time:\r\n\r\n1. All fonts sold by masterfont
    are licensed including Koreen.\r\n\r\n<cite>3. Koren Tanakh - exactly the same
    as Koreen Bold</cite>\r\nNO NO NO NO NO NO NO.\r\nI really don't know how to stress
    this any more. Koreen is NOT NOT NOT Koren Tanakh. \r\n\r\nThe question of digitising
    the Koren Tanakh font was a big deal for Eliyahu Koren. He didn't want anybody
    else in the world to use his typeface (in any way shape or form). \r\n\r\nWhen
    we wanted to digitise the typeface for internal use 3.5 years ago, we debated
    whether to keep it propreitary or to make it generally available. Personally I
    fought for this to become commercially available since in any case there were
    other \"interpretations\" out there. Rather than people having to rely on these
    versions of the font, whether done with permission of Koren like Masterfont, or
    without, like Keren and Crown, was irrelevant. Let the people have the real thing
    and not some poor \"interpretation\". I succeeded in convincing the owner of Koren
    and he agreed (as long as the typeface isn't used to typeset a Tanakh). \r\n\r\nIn
    reality the Koren Tanakh font was supposed to replace KoreenMF (KorenMF), but
    to be fair to other typesetters and companies out there that have been using KoreenMF
    for years for logos and books, in the meantime, we haven't insisted on the deceasing
    of the selling of the KoreenMF (KorenMF) interpretations. Perhaps this is a mistake
    and this forum is beginning to change my mind :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 05:07:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "GoHebrew: I haven't been able to find anything out about the circumstances
    surrounding Shmuel Guttman's type design work to know what, if any, issues there
    may actually be as regards licensing. Apparently, he worked for a software company,
    Galiad Computers, in Jerusalem.\r\n\r\nBut the evidence you have shown of his
    craftsmanship in his versions of Miriam and David and Frank-Ruehl, in addition
    to Keren, is of such a nature that, while it supports your praise of him for good
    craftsmanship, could also make a case for him engaging in bad art.\r\n\r\nMaking
    a new typeface that is similar to an old one, but better, is of course entirely
    legitimate; as you point out, Baskerville, as a roman type of its period, shares
    a lot with Caslon, but it was an attempt at an improvement. Still, though, Baskerville
    is a different typeface from start to finish from Caslon - it has a \"feel\" all
    its own.\r\n\r\nHere, we are talking about faces that are intended as replacements
    for existing designs, but which comply with Israeli law, which gives more protection
    for typeface designs than American law, by having changes to several characters
    - changes that tend to go in the direction of returning subtleties from classic
    typefaces (i.e. the Siddur typefaces) back into the face.\r\n\r\nIf one views
    a typeface designer as primarily a craftsman working on how best to express the
    pre-existing alphabet in a typeface, there is nothing problematic.\r\n\r\nIf,
    however, one views a typeface designer as a creative artist - in the same sense
    that Pablo Picasso, Jackson Pollock, and Piet Mondrian are viewed as creative
    artists - then from that point of view, taking more than inspiration, but closely
    following the outlines in one's own drawing, so that the result feels like the
    \"same\" face, but making little improvements of such a nature as to go directly
    against the creative vision embodied in the face... is something that is generally
    disapproved of strongly from that standpoint.\r\n\r\nSalvador Dali painting a
    moustache on a reproduction of the Mona Lisa made sense in the context of surrealism,
    but in general that is considered disrespectful to an artist's \"moral rights\".
    I could be mistaken in thinking this is really the case for Shmuel Guttman's work,
    but I have to note that the very facts you cite in his praise at least <em>appear</em>
    to hint towards such an indictment of him.\r\n\r\nSomeone else, with considerably
    more knowledge of these matters than I, would have to comment one way or another,
    though, as to whether this creative issue of which I am apprehensive is actually
    present.\r\n\r\nRaphaelFreeman: Oh, I think you should not make Koren MF unavailable,
    but perhaps you should change its name back to Koreen MF to get rid of the confusion!
    (Unfortunately, that might cause new confusion when people buy Koren Tanakh as
    an exact replacement for Koren MF by mistake.)"
  created: '2010-11-25 06:25:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Soon, I will release Crown Royal, Crown Royal-Bold, Crown Bible, Crown Bible-Bold
    (less differences between the thick and thin strokes).\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, Eliyahu
    Koren's design, and its Masterfont's look-alikes, are defective. Good for 50 years,
    but \"the times they are a'changin'\"\r\n\r\nI hope in 50 years, better designs
    surpass mine.\r\n\r\nCrown and Korngold shall rest in peace.\r\n\r\nI really hope
    Microsoft wins its lawsuit. Its a frivolous, with no basis or merit."
  created: '2010-11-25 06:56:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nThank you for your explanation.\r\n\r\nMy apparent mistake
    was based upon what I saw, as I do not have these fonts from Masterfont, Koren
    MF and Koren Tanakh MF.\r\n\r\n\r\nKoreen\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koreen_4722.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nKoreen-Bold
    (Later, I saw this,, and realized immediated it was not the same weight as Koren-Tanakh
    or Tanakh-Bold\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koreen-bold_4534.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nKoren\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koren_5066.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nKoren-Tanakh,
    or Tanakh-Bold\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koren_tanakh_4851.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nYes,
    Koreen-Bold is a heavier weight than Koren-Tanakh or Tanakh Bold. \r\n\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I think Guttmann's version is the best, mainly because of the soft edges. \r\n\r\nI
    don't buy Koren's argument not to allow anyone to use his design. In fact, please
    cite a precedent."
  created: '2010-11-25 06:59:03'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>I don't buy Koren's argument not to allow anyone to use his design.
    In fact, please cite a precedent.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't understand. Are you saying
    that if a person draws a drawing that he has no right to request that nobody copies
    it? I wasn't aware that everything we create in the world belongs to everyone.
    \r\n\r\nPerhaps in the States, that's okay, I have no idea.\r\n\r\nWell, funnily
    enough the courts think it has great merit and great basis, but heck what do they
    know, right? They don't have the insight of the gaon of typography, Mr Scott (for
    Arabs) Israel (for Jews) Seldowitz.\r\n\r\nquadibloc: I will speak to Zvika about
    naming conventions. But the commercial side I have to leave to his discretion.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 14:03:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nIn the history of typography, good type design has excelled
    because of further creativity.\r\n\r\nIf laws existed in the United States preventing
    that creativity to be applied to an artist's typeface design, then both that creativity
    would be stifled, and typography as a whole would be squashed.\r\n\r\nIs this
    not clear?\r\n\r\nPerhaps, that's why creative type design is so rare in Israel
    for the past decades, and even centuries. In truth, it seems commonplace everywhere
    but in the United States.\r\n\r\nWhat the Israeli courts decide does not reflect
    the truth, as in the case of the laws of incitement. If the US enacted similar
    laws, it is time to pack our bags and move to Timbuktu."
  created: '2010-11-25 15:31:22'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I don't see the connection. You can't just copy existing work that belongs
    to somebody else because you see it as the greater good. And who is to decide
    what is better? You? If you think your design was better than Koren (now remember
    you did this design many years ago), then why did you beg me on the phone to licence
    the Koren font to you three years ago. Surely if your design is better, why on
    earth would you want Eliyahu Koren's \"defective\" creation if you've had a \"far
    better\" design that you have had for so many years?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm glad that
    you have finally admitted that your design is interpretation of Koren and not
    the other way round.\r\n\r\nI will leave it to less biased typophiles to judge
    which typeface is better, Koren Tanakh or Crown. If this thread goes into that
    direction of others on this forum being interested in comparing Crown to Koren
    Tanakh, I will be happy to post any characters to compare the fonts. For legal
    reasons, I cannot do this with the Keren font."
  created: '2010-11-25 16:35:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here is a beta of GHB Shmuel\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth
    - GHB Shmuel v1_5728.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-25 16:49:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  then why did you beg me on the phone to licence the Koren
    font to you three years ago\r\n\r\nRound 2   :)\r\n\r\nI never wanted to license
    it. \r\n\r\nI wanted to create a MS Volt from the outlines. A job. Period. I could
    do a better MS Volt job. If Eli did not make it, you got second-grade quality."
  created: '2010-11-25 16:56:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  why on earth would you want Eliyahu Koren's \"defective\" creation\r\n\r\nI
    don't. Not then, not now. Guttmann's is much better."
  created: '2010-11-25 16:58:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Anyway, I'm glad that you have finally admitted that your design is interpretation
    of Koren and not the other way round.\r\n\r\nI never admitted this. Not now, not
    then.\r\n\r\nBtw, the Aleppo Codex designer was Koren's great-grandfather...\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 17:02:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\n>>  ... could also make a case for him engaging in bad art.\r\n\r\nPlease
    explain how and why it would be \"bad art\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  ... changes that tend
    to go in the direction of returning subtleties from classic typefaces (i.e. the
    Siddur typefaces) back into the face.\r\n\r\nI don't understand.  Please explain.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ If one views a typeface designer as primarily a craftsman working on how best
    to express the pre-existing alphabet in a typeface, there is nothing problematic.\r\n\r\nIs
    this not what so many did to Baskerville or Garamond?\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 18:06:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A beta of GHB Shmuel Bible\r\n\r\nTake not that all thin strokes have been
    thickned to be closer to the thick strokes.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth
    - GHB Shmuel Bible v1_4376.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-25 18:36:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It looked to me like many of the specific changes you pointed out in \"Shmuel
    Guttman - the Type Designer Down to the Small Details\" were of the form of reintroducing
    elements found in a classic Hebrew typeface to a sans-serif (like Miriam) or a
    lapidary (like Koren) to which those elements didn't necessarily belong naturally.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not trying to criticize him, though. My point was that your posts in that thread
    indicated to me that you were looking at type designers purely from the point
    of view of being \"craftsmen\" and not \"artists\".\r\n\r\nI chose Picasso, Jackson
    Pollock, and Piet Mondrian as my examples of \"artists\" with malice aforethought
    - I was trying to avoid having to explain a bunch of context here.\r\n\r\nBasically,
    an \"artist\" might do something as trivial as squirting paint on a canvas - but
    he might be temperamental and egotistical, even so, and seek the glory for himself
    as a creator.\r\n\r\nA \"craftsman\", on the other hand, patiently toils in a
    humble fashion - and leaves the glory for the Creator.\r\n\r\nGiven your view,
    expressed in yet another thread, that the Hebrew square script is of Divine origin,
    it seems to me that you may be inclined to view the appropriate role of a designer
    of typefaces for the Hebrew language as that of a craftsman to the exclusion of
    that of an artist.\r\n\r\nAs a result, I think that there may not have been a
    clear understanding on your part of why some people have taken issue with some
    of your statements, and this has led to a needless exchange of harsh words that
    could be avoided with better understanding on both sides of how the other person
    is thinking."
  created: '2010-11-25 20:03:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "A beta of GHB Shmuel Bible\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth
    - GHB Shmuel Bible v2_3534.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-25 20:59:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\n>>  ... you were looking at type designers purely from the
    point of view of being \"craftsmen\" and not \"artists\"\r\n\r\nA type designer
    is both, although some are \"craftsmen\" and not \"artists\", like Gutmann, and
    some are \"artists\" and not \"craftsmen\".\r\n\r\nSome are both.\r\n\r\nSome
    unfortunately are knock-off or con artists. \r\n\r\nBut truly a good type designer
    must be both.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  Given your view, expressed in yet another thread,
    that the Hebrew square script is of Divine origin, it seems to me that you may
    be inclined to view the appropriate role of a designer of typefaces for the Hebrew
    language as that of a craftsman to the exclusion of that of an artist.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see any connection. Please explain.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  As a result, I think
    that there may not have been a clear understanding on your part of why some people
    have taken issue with some of your statements, and this has led to a needless
    exchange of harsh words that could be avoided with better understanding on both
    sides of how the other person is thinking.\r\n\r\nI am trying not to reply to
    improper statements anymore, with sarcasms or sardonic wit. Please enlighten me
    with examples about how I could improve.\r\n\r\nBtw, my point there was not about
    the Square Hebrew letter perse, but to the general form of Hebrew letters, as
    further elaborated by R' Zalman Henna quoting Sefer Yetzira about the Hebrew letter
    forms, the sounds that produce them, and how the former reflects the latter. No
    other language suggests this.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-11-25 21:20:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't have specific examples: I have seen intense exchanges in these discussions,
    and I simply had a sense that part of the cause might be that the parties to the
    discussion were arguing from different premises, and thus failing to see one another's
    point of view.\r\n\r\nAs you point out, it is appropriate for those involved in
    type design to be both artists and craftsmen. Because, though, the \"artist\"
    role can degenerate into that of the <em>poseur</em>, because the \"craftsman\"
    role leaves less room for the individual's ego, that it appeared to me that the
    latter role might seem more appropriate when one is working on sacred ground.
    \r\n\r\nWhich was reasonable in itself, but since the exchanges here concerned
    issues of what makes a design original, issues of defining respect for intellectual
    property, I had suspected, perhaps wrongly, that if both sides had opposing visions
    of the type designer's proper role, they might also have different visions of
    the boundaries of the designer's rights.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't help, either, that
    apparently Israeli law is the exact opposite of U.S. law when it comes to creating
    typefaces! In the U.S., type designs historically (this has recently changed)
    had no protection, but the trademark on the name of the face was protected. In
    two of your examples, we see that the design was significantly changed - but the
    results could still be called GuttmanDavid or GuttmanMiriam.\r\n\r\nGiven this,
    I'm not sure <em>what</em> is considered acceptable in Israel as homage versus
    plagiarism, since attitudes on what is acceptable are often influenced by what
    is legal."
  created: '2010-11-26 02:12:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\n>>  ... the parties to the discussion were arguing from different
    premises, and thus failing to see one another's point of view.\r\n\r\nThis is
    a profound perception of a difference of opinion.\r\n\r\nThe Talmud (tractate
    Yevamot 62b) attributes your explanation to the massive deaths of Rabbi Akiva's
    students: they failed to see the other student's point of view. \r\n\r\nIn fact,
    the sign of great intelligence is to conceive of opposite ideas in ones mind (the
    discourse of Rabbi Sholem DovBer of Lubavitch of 5672)."
  created: '2010-11-26 03:11:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... In the U.S., type designs historically (this has recently changed)
    had no protection.\r\n\r\nTo what are you referring: \"(this has recently changed)\".\r\n\r\nSince
    the late 80s, the US Copyright Office has accepted verbal descriptions of typeface
    designs (I was involved in providing a winning argument). The design itself is
    not protected by US Copyright. The verbal description is registered, for the first
    time ever. Only, design patents can protect a design."
  created: '2010-11-26 03:18:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I'm not sure what is considered acceptable in Israel as homage versus
    plagiarism\r\n\r\nIn my view, laws in Israel have stifled creativity, freedom
    of speech etc.\r\n\r\nAs a land, a people, a society, a culture, it's great. As
    a government, with its laws, it sucks."
  created: '2010-11-26 03:21:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I was looking through a book on Hebrew manuscripts in the library, and a photo
    of a page from the Lisbon Mishneh Torah from the British Museum seemed to have
    been written in a style somewhat suggestive of Koren, although it was hard to
    tell from the relatively small image.
  created: '2010-12-15 05:19:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Is there any way to scan it, or take a picture with your cell phone or digital
    camera?
  created: '2010-12-15 13:15:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Image from my facsimile edition:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LisbonBible_5779.jpg]
  created: '2010-12-15 14:50:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thank you, David.\r\n\r\nThere are some similarities between the typeface
    design in the above example, and between that used by Koren, in certain letters.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    overall, in my view the typeface design in the above example, compared to Koren's
    design, is very different.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?"
  created: '2010-12-16 13:12:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The illustration of the colophon from that book in "A Sign and a Witness",
    a book about an exhibition of Jewish printing and manuscripts by the New York
    Public Library, was on a small scale. So, from the larger-scale sample here, I
    think I was mistaken in the resemblance I noted.
  created: '2010-12-16 13:19:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nE. Koren seems the unlikely designer of the Koren type design.
    If it were totally new, why did he not create others afterwards? But if it was
    a refinement, improvement, of an ancient design, the question disappears.\r\n\r\nWhat
    bothers me from an Orthodoc Jewish point of view, is the use of Koren in the Siddur
    and Bible (sorry, Raphael), after it has clear influences from Asher Ben Asher's
    Karaite codex. Rabbi Hai Gaon used Ben Naftali's codex for this same reason. One
    would think that a Siddur prayerbook to G-d or His Bible be from a kosher source.\r\n\r\nH.
    Friedlander created the popular Hadasa by combining the best qualities of other
    typefaces and adding his unique design. Why didn't he create a newer design afterwards,
    like T. Narkis and I. David? Is this a valid question.\r\n\r\nI think that Friedlander
    couldn't create a better design. Hence, he came out with no new design.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think, John?"
  created: '2010-12-16 13:47:15'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: " > the colophon from that book in \"A Sign and a Witness\"\r\n\r\nWhy you
    didn't say that before. The colophon is MS 5699, my sample is MS 2626-2628; not
    the same scribe, but the same style (see page 33 -- A Sign and a Witness).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    What bothers me from an Orthodoc Jewish point of view, is the use of Koren in
    the Siddur and Bible (sorry, Raphael), after it has clear influences from Asher
    Ben Asher's Karaite codex.\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nDo you have a Bible? Which one? "
  created: '2010-12-16 17:01:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Gutnik Chumash.\r\nArtScroll - Stone and others.\r\nMikraot Gedolot.\r\nThe
    New Kehot by Rabbi Moshe Wishevsky (similar to Rabbi Chaim Miller's Gutnik Chumash
    - yea Chaim; I'm a fan/friend).\r\nShai L'Moreh.\r\nand yes I admit, some old
    Koren Bible (I lost it recently; I won't buy it again b\"n) (but his kids could
    sell his house to Arabs, if they charge them 15% more than Dibs).\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nPS
    Soon, everyone will have shva-nahs in the Bible. \r\n\r\nPPS Is a Karaite Bible
    have the din of a 'sefer torah sh'ktav min yisraf'?"
  created: '2010-12-16 18:14:08'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nReally, I gave my JPS Bible away when I was a teen. Everything
    now is from memory. Do have you Gideon's?"
  created: '2010-12-16 18:16:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Every Bible is <a href=\"http://www.aleppocodex.org/links/8.html\">Ben Asher</a>
    :\r\n\r\n\"Aharon Ben Moshe Ben Asher was the Masorete and vocalizer of the Aleppo
    Codex, as stated in the dedication of the manuscript, which was written several
    decades after his death: This is the complete codex of the twenty-four books,
    written by our teacher the rabbi Shlomo known as Ben Boya\u2019a the swift scribe,
    and the spirit of the Lord guided him, and it was vocalized and transmitted with
    great meticulousness by the great scholar and wise sage, the lord of scribes and
    the father of sages, the chief of scholars, swift in his deeds, whose understanding
    of the work was unique in his generation, master Rabbi Aharon the son of master
    Rabbi Asher, may his soul be bound in life with the prophets and righteous and
    pious.\r\n\r\nFor generations the name Ben Asher signified the most precise and
    reliable text of the Bible, and many Masoretes and printers sought to emulate
    the text he had established. Here are the words of Rabbi Menahem De Lonzano of
    the sixteenth century in the beginning of his book, \u201CThe Light of the Torah\u201D:
    And all the Jews in those lands relied upon the reading of Ben Asher, as though
    a divine voice had proclaimed: \u201CBen Asher and Ben Naphtali \u2013 the Halakhah
    is according to Ben Asher.\u201D In the nineteenth century, certain scholars suggested
    that Aharon Ben Asher might have been a Karaite and not a rabbinic Jew. Aharon
    Dothan has examined this issue from many angles, and his conclusion is that Ben
    Asher was a rabbinic Jew. Recently, Raphael Zer has raised this issue again and
    presented new evidence.\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-16 18:33:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: So, why did I read that Ibn Ezra chose to read Ben Naphtali's rendition, if
    Ben Asher's was more accurate?
  created: '2010-12-16 18:55:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI make a distinction in my mind between \"sefer sh'k'tav min\"
    \"\u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05E9\u05DB\u05EA\u05D1 \u05DE\u05D9\u05DF\", \"a book composed
    by a rebeller of Torah\", and between the 'contents' of the sefer.\r\n\r\nEvery
    Bible appears as it does by the typesetter and/or publisher. So, each Bible is
    different.\r\n\r\nThis distinction I made earlier by the origin of Hebrew letters.
    Instead, I was pointed to diagrams on Wikipedia articles plotting the evolution
    of Hebrew letter forms, much like Darwin's theory of man's evolution.\r\n\r\n\"See,
    the Rashi type design is the missing link. It is the bridge between the ancient
    Hebrew script and the square letter Vilna-like design.\"\r\n\r\nI laughed louder
    than Bill's burst, when I suggested that Ashurit was connected to ashir with an
    ayin, as I read in the Talmud. Often, words are explained by exchanging letters,
    such as Aleph for Ayin, Shin/Sin for Samech, etc.\r\n\r\nBeneath every statement
    is a concept. If you look only at the surface meaning, you get the statement;
    but if you look beneath or behind the statement, you get the concept."
  created: '2010-12-16 19:14:37'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>E. Koren seems the unlikely designer of the Koren type design. If it
    were totally new, why did he not create others afterwards? But if it was a refinement,
    improvement, of an ancient design, the question disappears.</cite>\r\n\r\nFirstly,
    who said he didn't create other type designs other than the Koren Tanakh font?
    Just for the public record, he created the Koren Tanakh and the Koren Siddur font
    both of which are digitised and available. He created no few than 3 Rashi fonts,
    one of which is currently being digitised and he created a sans serif font. He
    also did work on other faces, but they are no more than a few letters here and
    there.\r\n\r\nSecondly, E. Koren wasn't just a font designer. His ambition was
    to create a Bible, he cared as much about the letter, the page and the paper it
    was printed on. It wasn't just a work of creating a typeface, but the whole finished
    product.\r\n\r\nHis siddur that he made in the early '80s wasn't just about a
    typeface, but about how to pray. The fact that he designed typefaces is primary
    to this forum, but secondary to his life work. He spent many more years making
    sure that the Tanakh was perfect from a nusach point of view than on the typeface
    itself. \r\n\r\nSo you must not think of him of just a type designer and then
    that answers your question as to why he didn't spend his life design 100s of typefaces.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-16 21:26:34'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>What bothers me from an Orthodoc Jewish point of view, is the use of
    Koren in the Siddur and Bible (sorry, Raphael), after it has clear influences
    from Asher Ben Asher's Karaite codex. Rabbi Hai Gaon used Ben Naftali's codex
    for this same reason. One would think that a Siddur prayerbook to G-d or His Bible
    be from a kosher source</cite>\r\n\r\nFor the record, there is no evidence to
    suggest that he has any influence at all from Asher Ben Asher's Karaite codex.
    Just because you type it, it doesn't make it true.\r\n\r\nBut I don't understand
    your comment of a kosher source? This is soooo wrong on sooo many levels.\r\n\r\n1.
    Only in recent history has rabbinic judaism separated itself from karaite judaism.
    Don't forget that Rambam had a special ketuba for a rabbinate who married a karaite
    and whose minhagim were followed. You can't exactly say that karaite therefore
    is not kosher.\r\n2. Many hebrew typefaces, heck, ALL hebrew typefaces have in
    someway been influenced by non-Jewish sources. There is nothing wrong with that
    in Judaism despite what you may believe. Your comment is a ridiculous as, an early
    Grey's Anatomy TV episode depicting a strictly orthodox girl not accepting a pig's
    heart to save her life. If the producer had checked with his local orthodox rabbi,
    he would have known that it's okay to put a pig's heart in your body, as long
    as you don't eat the heart (putting aside the fact that if it's to save a life,
    you can eat pork too!)"
  created: '2010-12-16 21:37:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nThank you for your enlightening replies and clarification,
    too.\r\n\r\nI will reply later in detail.\r\n\r\nSuffice to say, we Rabbinic Jews
    believe in the lofty concept of \u05D0\u05D9\u05EA\u05D4\u05E4\u05DB\u05D0, transformation,
    or in Hebrew, \u05D4\u05EA\u05D4\u05E4\u05DB\u05D5\u05EA, as to transform \u05DC\u05D4\u05E4\u05DA
    something into something else.\r\n\r\nHence, when a Shomer Shabbat/Shomer Kashrut
    tzaddik (\u05DB\u05DC \u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC \u05E6\u05D3\u05D9\u05E7\u05D9\u05DD)
    takes something good from a typeface design, and transforms it into a new design,
    this is praiseworthy, as the Talmud (tractate Sukkah, ch. 3) says regarding a
    \u05E9\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D9 \u05E9\u05DD \u05D5\u05E9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D9 \u05DE\u05E2\u05E9\u05D4
    can transform even an undesireble act.\r\n\r\nDo you have completed sample artwork
    or even sketches of E. Koren's 100s of typeface designs. If so, publish them.
    I will digitize them all for no upfront fee, provided www.GoHebrew will offer
    them."
  created: '2010-12-16 23:57:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  But I don't understand your comment of a kosher source? \r\n\r\nAs you
    know, I am involved with the creation of a new updated version of the Talmud (www.GoTalmud.com),
    called the \"Schneersohn Talmud\", named after the late seventh Lubavitcher Rebbe,
    Rabbi Menachem M. Schneersohn.\r\n\r\nMr. Menachem Vagshall of Moznayim Publishers
    (New York and Jerusalem) has been a dominant force in the Talmud market for years.
    He recently published a totally new typeset edition of the Talmud.\r\n\r\nAs he
    knows me as a design savvy typographer, Menachem asked my opinion of his Talmud.\r\n\r\nI
    eyed it for a moment. and exclaimed: \"It's beautiful\". Then, I pointed to the
    main Talmudic text in the center of the page. It's a shame your typesetter used
    this font. \"Why,\" Menachem asked.\r\n\r\n\"It's not Shomer Shabbat!\" I replied.
    \"Fonts made in Fontographer on the Apple Macintosh computer have a creation date.
    The Israeli who created this font violated the Sabbath.\"\r\n\r\n\"You mean that
    my Talmud is not Shomer Shabbat?\"\r\n\r\nMenachem looked like a kid in the candy
    store, and then being told by his mommy that it's all not kosher.\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, all Chaim's backward fonts for Quark were based based on stolen materials.
    Did you work in Quark or InDesign ME when you made some of his chumashim?"
  created: '2010-12-17 00:15:37'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "> 1. Only in recent history has rabbinic judaism separated itself from karaite
    judaism. \r\n\r\nPlease cite a source and date?"
  created: '2010-12-17 00:16:31'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  2. Many hebrew typefaces, heck, ALL hebrew typefaces have in someway
    been influenced by non-Jewish sources. There is nothing wrong with that in Judaism
    despite what you may believe. Your comment is a ridiculous as, an early Grey's
    Anatomy TV episode depicting a strictly orthodox girl not accepting a pig's heart
    to save her life. If the producer had checked with his local orthodox rabbi, he
    would have known that it's okay to put a pig's heart in your body, as long as
    you don't eat the heart (putting aside the fact that if it's to save a life, you
    can eat pork too!)\r\n\r\nRemember, these are all your assumptions about me, or
    projections.\r\n\r\nI am in part named after an uncle who was told this very heter
    about eating pork in the US Army in World War II.\r\n\r\nIn the concentration
    camps, many Jews refused to eat non-kosher food, and died of starvation (as if
    they weren't staving already). No one has the right to say they sinned.\r\n\r\nWhen
    the Slavita brothers printed the Talmud in Poland (the one before Vilna), they
    immersed the plates in a mikveh because unpure hands punchcut the letters. \r\n\r\nI
    don't throw stones, Raphael."
  created: '2010-12-17 00:25:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "What hasn't been settled yet, despite the prominence of the Aleppo Codex,
    is whether the particular distinguishing features of the Koren typeface which
    it also reflects are not also found elsewhere. Obviously, if there are other sources
    for this writing style, the fact that it was used by someone who might have been
    a Karaite would be less significant.\r\n\r\nSince you seem to have noted earlier
    that you felt that it was a mistake on the part of some in the Orthodox community
    to be hostile to the Vilna style of face because of Gentile use of it, am I to
    understand that your issue with Koren in this respect is not that the Orthodox
    <em>should</em> avoid a Tanakh printed with it, but rather that they <em>are likely
    to</em> avoid such a Tanakh, and thus it would be more respectful to them to use
    something else?"
  created: '2010-12-17 05:52:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Also, I would generally agree that it is not a sin to be more observant than
    one has to be, even at some personal sacrifice.\r\n\r\nOf course, other things
    do complicate matters. After all, it is also agreed that suicide is a sin. But
    where to draw the line between suicide and self-sacrifice?\r\n\r\nI come from
    a Roman Catholic religious background. While some might claim it unfair to say
    that Catholicism has a particular horror of abortion because its victims have
    had no chance to be baptized yet, and of suicide because those who commit it can't
    go to confession afterwards, if one looks at the Catholicism of what ordinary
    Catholics are taught by the nuns in school rather than what the theologians and
    cardinals, it's not a stereotype without basis in fact.\r\n\r\nSo from that perspective,
    suicide is like eating pork - especially wrong as a betrayal of one's faith, not
    merely wrong because of how it is wrong in itself, and that moves the boundary
    in cases like that. So I would be no judge of where this boundary would lie for
    people in another faith."
  created: '2010-12-17 06:54:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "E. Koren beautiful distinctive Bible gimel seems unique. His siddur very
    ugly aleph also seem unique. He seemed to want to leave a traceable mark.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the undesirable and non-based in authentic sources non-Jewish square letter never
    was acceptable to me.\r\n\r\nI think a good Jewish Bible and Siddur should be
    very readable and conducive to \u05E2\u05D9\u05D5\u05DF, concentrated reading,
    as Rabbi Akiva Eiger zatzal wrote in his endorsement of Romm Vilna over holy Slavita
    Square letters. If you compare Bodoni-like Romm Vilna, there is no square letter
    like it.\r\n\r\nDavid and John, do you agree?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shassample1_4576.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-17 06:54:42'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>Do you have completed sample artwork or even sketches of E. Koren's
    100s of typeface designs. If so, publish them. I will digitize them all for no
    upfront fee, provided www.GoHebrew will offer them.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a very
    sweet offer. if you notice, I didn't say that he designed 100s, but rather less
    than 10. We currently have a business arrangement that we are very happy with,
    but I'll bear your offer in mind.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-17 06:54:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Of course, other things do complicate matters. After all, it is also
    agreed that suicide is a sin. But where to draw the line between suicide and self-sacrifice?\r\n\r\nWhat
    those martyrs in the Holocaust, or those at the last days before the Roman conquest
    at Mount Masadadid, was not suicide.\r\n\r\nThe Gerer Chassidim who formed a circle
    and danced with fervent joy, before entering their certain deaths in the Nazi
    gas chambers, also was not suicide.\r\n\r\nRather, it was an act of \u05E7\u05D9\u05D3\u05D5\u05E9
    \u05D4\u05E9\u05DD, kiddush Hashem, like when Rabbi Akiva was brutally murdered,
    as we recite in the prayers of Yom Kippur (to evoke G-d's forgiveness. \r\n\r\nIt's
    not a fine line."
  created: '2010-12-17 07:04:47'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>I don't throw stones, Raphael.</cite>\r\n\r\nnot physical ones no,
    but verbal ones?\r\n\r\nYou declared that all Artscroll books featuring the Hadasa
    font (ie all siddurim, chumashim, talmud etc) should be burned because the font
    was by somebody who is no longer religious. Personally I think that is rather
    inciteful. I wonder what Artscroll would think of this comment of yours."
  created: '2010-12-17 07:05:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Judaism forbades suicide, except in the case of matyrdom.\r\n\r\nJudaism
    permits abortion in the case to save the mother. Real life precedes unborn life.\r\n\r\nJudaism
    makes distinctions."
  created: '2010-12-17 07:08:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">> You declared that all Artscroll books featuring the Hadasa font (ie all
    siddurim, chumashim, talmud etc) should be burned because the font was by somebody
    who is no longer religious. Personally I think that is rather inciteful. I wonder
    what Artscroll would think of this comment of yours.\r\n\r\nNo, there are a few
    Hadasa-like typeface software fonts.\r\n\r\nArtScroll's first was made by Bedford
    Software, by a non-Jew. Hence, it's OK; not non-kosher. There new font for Macintosh
    was made by an Israeli \u05D7\u05D9\u05DC\u05D5\u05E0\u05D9. Not Sabbath observant.\r\n\r\nArtScroll
    doesn't care. That is why their Shotenstein Talmud is print on the cheapest dyed
    white paper, against Rabbi Akiva Eiger's edict.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-17 07:17:13'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I wonder what Artscroll would think of this comment of yours.\r\n\r\nAsk
    Meyer Zlatowitz, the principal owner of ArtScroll? Do \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9
    \u05E6\u05D3\u05D9\u05E7\u05D9\u05DD \u05E7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05DC\u05E2\u05D3?
    Do \u05E6\u05D3\u05D9\u05E7\u05D9\u05DD \u05D2\u05D5\u05D6\u05E8 \u05DF\u05D4\u05E7\u05D3\u05D5\u05E9
    \u05D1\u05E8\u05D5\u05DA \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05E7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD?\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    they cared in the early 80's, but no more."
  created: '2010-12-17 07:23:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It isn't the Bodoni-like \"Drugulin\" style of typeface that I would favor.\r\n\r\nI
    hope that you have success in finding typefaces that combine good readability
    and the authenticity you seek."
  created: '2010-12-17 08:53:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I think a modified version of Romm Vilna, where the very thin strokes are
    much thicker, and the wider characters, like shin (in 'm' ans 'w' in Times, or
    'shin' in Lino Nine - Did Mathew Carter draw them for Linotype?) are drawn so
    the vertical strokes have larger spaces between them, and the left bottom 'foot'
    of the aleph, and the right base of the gimel, are both lifted a bit. Then, these
    areas where readability is hampered have greater white space.\r\n\r\nThis is what
    Bodoni's students would have done if they had a second round of punch-cutting
    the designs for Mr. Menachem Mann Romm, if we believe Frederick Goudy's account
    of what happened around the beginning of the 19th century.\r\n\r\nScott-Martin
    Kesofsky, author, typesetter, and type designer (like Goudy) says Goudy's account
    can be used to wash hogs.  :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-17 16:57:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "correction:\r\n\r\nScott-Martin Kosofsky, author, typesetter, and type designer
    (like Goudy), says Goudy's account can be used to wash hogs. :)\r\n\r\nBackground:\r\n\r\nGoudy
    reports that Romm came to Bodoni's students in Italy to create the famous Romm
    typefaces for the Talmud. Kosofsky says that the tale is tall."
  created: '2010-12-17 17:39:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  ...  but rather less than 10. \r\n\r\n1. (Koren) Tanach
    Bold - all derivatives or similar\r\n2. Koren Siddur - \r\n3.-4. 2 Rashis - can
    I see a posting of the artwork to see if they are similar to the four out there,
    or contain his creativity?\r\n5. A sans\r\n\r\nWhat are the 5 others?\r\nCan you
    post samples?"
  created: '2010-12-19 19:47:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  ... You declared that all Artscroll books featuring the
    Hadasa font (ie all siddurim, chumashim, talmud etc) should be burned because
    the font was by somebody who is no longer religious. \r\n\r\nI never said that.\r\n\r\nRather,
    we are talking about a work created with a product that involved chilul Shabbat.
    There are specific laws in the Codes of Jewish Law regarding a work created with
    a product that involved chilul Shabbat. Just like we abide by such laws regarding
    kosher food, we adhere to these laws.\r\n\r\nBy non-holy works, we are lenient,
    and say that such a person did not know better. However, by holy works, we don't
    rely upon loopholes.\r\n\r\nThat pertains to a person raised not as an Observant
    educated Jew. By a person who raised and educated as an Observant Jew, and later
    goes away from his or her observance, there are no loopholes.\r\n\r\nWas Tzvika
    frum?"
  created: '2010-12-19 19:56:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Why is Frankruhl so popular all these years? Why did it replace the position
    held previously by Romm Vilna, the classic square letter design? Why did Eliyahu
    Koren's Tanach Bold become an Israel standard Bible typeface design?\r\n\r\nLet's
    look at what FrankRuhl and Koren did different than what was in Romm Vilna.\r\n\r\nBasically,
    the very thick elements and contrasting thin elements were removed.\r\n\r\nHow
    would Romm Vilna look as a modified text typeface design?"
  created: '2010-12-19 20:31:55'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I made a draft of a text version of Romm Vilna, called Romm Text.\r\n\r\nSome
    characters look odd when viewed at larger sizes. I am incorporated design aspects
    to enhance legibility and readability that I learned from Linotype which they
    used in creating Times-Roman at different sizes, which they also implemented in
    creating their version of Frankrul at various sizes, from accounts of advice given
    to Eliyahu Koren for his standard Bible typeface design, and from conversations
    with Scott-Martin Kosofsky regarding punching-cutting and modifying a typeface
    design for printing.\r\n\r\nRomm Text 1.0\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Romm-Text_5572.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-20 04:53:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>>> ... You declared that all Artscroll books featuring the Hadasa font
    (ie all siddurim, chumashim, talmud etc) should be burned because the font was
    by somebody who is no longer religious. \r\n\r\nI never said that.</cite>\r\n\r\nyes
    you most certainly did.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-20 04:55:07'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "In my own critique, I see the Tet, Ayin, and Tzaddi(k) must be widened in
    accommodate dagesh dots, with sufficient white space around them.\r\n\r\nPlease
    provide feedback."
  created: '2010-12-20 04:58:21'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "there are many many problems with this first draft. But the first couple
    to sort out is that the Ayin and Tzadi look much much heavier than the rest of
    the font. Your second problem is that the final mem and samekh look too similar.\r\n\r\nApart
    from that, the tet doesn't fit with the rest of the font. I think the short tail
    of the gimmel is also going to cause problems and the closeness of the tail of
    the kuf to the long stem also. It bothers me that none of the letters seem to
    be part of the font. There is no consistency. Look at the bet and feh, and then
    compare the feh with the final feh.\r\n\r\nAll in all, seems to be lots of room
    for improvement here."
  created: '2010-12-20 05:04:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI never discussed a person \"who is no longer religious\".
    You likely thought this for some reason. \r\n\r\nThe Lubavitcher Rebbe said that
    such a person is the classic 'baal teshuva' or potential bt, if he or she does
    teshuva. \r\n\r\nMy attitude towards most chilunim, or people who grew up not
    yet religious, is in accord with Maimonides' ruling in his Codes of Jewish Law,
    \"Mishnah Torah\", laws of Mamerim, by a 'tinuk sh'nish' - children kidnapped
    by non-Jews as children, and raised as Christians, which unfortunately happened
    frequently.\r\n\r\nThe Lubavitcher Rebbe said that bts today are more similar
    to gerim, righteous coverts.\r\n\r\nIf a particular set of books was typeset in
    typeface software created by one who mocks Judaism, why should we condone his
    or her behavior by making our holy books from that typeface software, when there
    is different typeface software of the same design which is not blemished in this
    way.\r\n\r\nTake your Koren Bible or Siddur, for example. No wonder the heredim
    avoid it."
  created: '2010-12-20 05:12:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nThank you for your useful feedback.\r\n\r\nPlease elaborate
    on the short right leg of the gimmel. This was inherited from the Romm Talmud,
    which at very small type, you might not have noticed. Also the base of the reish
    is above the baseline.\r\n\r\nLinotype also lift the left foot of the aleph, as
    it the foot is lifted at the heel. This helps eye movement."
  created: '2010-12-20 05:21:59'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>Take your Koren Bible or Siddur, for example. No wonder the heredim
    avoid it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that Haredim probably don\u2019t buy our siddur
    because of it\u2019s very zionistic angle (saying Hallel on Yom HaAtzma\u2019ut
    for example).\r\n\r\nHowever, Haredim buy our Tanakh and the Haredi cheder system
    buy and use our \"Torah\" volume in huge numbers. So I\u2019m not sure why you
    make such a strange and unbased comment. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-20 06:45:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Does the Koren Tanakh have Rashi and Onkelos?\r\nWhich Heredi school network
    buys in large numbers?"
  created: '2010-12-20 08:25:46'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Chabad is pro-Zionist, but doesn't say Hallel on Israel Independence Day.\r\n\r\nChabad
    is pro-land, pro-people, and pro-IDF. It says that just the government sucks. "
  created: '2010-12-20 08:29:31'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "No, the Koren Tanakh is just the Tanakh. It doesn\u2019t have commentary.
    I appreciate that most people that use a \"chumash\" (using that word in the colloquial
    sense), would expect at least rashi and onkelus, but that wasn\u2019t Eliyahu
    Koren\u2019s aim. You must put things into the perspective of history. As for
    our plans for the future, watch this space :-)\r\n\r\nMany Haredi (not Heredi)
    schools buy it. I\u2019m not sure that it\u2019s common practice for private companies
    to reveal their clientele list on public forums so I\u2019m going to ignore this
    question.\r\n\r\nWhen, I used the word \"zionist\", I was using it in a religious
    context. "
  created: '2010-12-20 09:55:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI believe that our sages obm warn us against a Tanach without
    a commentary such as Rashi or Onkelos.\r\n\r\nWhen Rabbi Aryeh Kaplan a\"h produced
    his breakthrough \"Living Torah\" for Moznayim Publishers, he included notes to
    avoid this issue.\r\n\r\nWith all due respect, I don't believe any heredi school
    purchases the Koren Tanakh. I may be wrong. Please email me their names. No business
    or sales figures. Email is not a public forum.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that the Koren
    Tanakh is nice, and pleasant to look at, if you made it. But its either for chilunim
    or the kipa-seruga crowd - not heredim."
  created: '2010-12-21 05:33:49'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Please can you quote a source where our sages warn against a Tanakh with
    commentary? I've never heard of such a thing. What did they do before Rashi? Or
    did Judaism only start when Rashi wrote his commentary. Really, you do have the
    most interesting of opinions.\r\n\r\nYou don't need to believe me. I'm not trying
    to prove a point. You are the one that said that no Haredi would buy our product.
    The onus is on you to back up your wild accusations. I think that my word, as
    a director in the company should be enough. Why on earth should I make it up?
    You have an incredible amount of chutzpa of basically accusing me of a liar on
    a public forum, then making me back up my \"claims\" to refute nonsense that you
    pull out of thin air.\r\n\r\nReally, a little derekh eretz please. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-21 07:21:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nJudaism began when Adam taught the animals, birds etc. to
    sing praises to G-d as each of us chant on Friday night. You do pay attention
    to want you read in the Koren Siddur?\r\n\r\nCommentary or Targum is not limited
    to Rashi. Onkelos I believe was a descendant of Romans, if I am not mistaken.
    He of course preceded Rashi, who lived in medieval times. Prior to Rashi most
    of us learned Onkelos, who offers much more than an Aramaic translation. There
    have been many other great commentaries over the past 2000 years.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think that it is an issur, but I'll look since you ask. It's an established Jewish
    tradition.\r\n\r\nI think that this argument about Heredim buying or not buying
    a Koren Bible is stupid. Ask any Heredi. They're in Jerusalem you know. Here we
    have Chassidim, Sephardim, Litvich etc. Heredim is an Israeli invention, like
    Kipa-Serugotniks.\r\n\r\nClearly, you are nogaah bedavar, and a good sales representative
    of your company.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry that you got angry, and lost your cool. In modern
    psychology that is as they say in Talmudic language a \"modeh b'miktzat\"."
  created: '2010-12-21 07:58:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have been poking around on the Internet to get some background to this.\r\n\r\nOne
    reference noted that a distinctive feature of the Haredim is that unlike more
    secular but still believing Jews, they place the Oral Law, the Mishnah and the
    Talmud which contains the Mishnah and commentaries on it, in a central role, as
    containing the authoritative interpretation of the Written Law.\r\n\r\nWhen it
    comes to a Tanakh with commentary, though, it isn't the Talmud, or even the Mishnah
    that is in the margins; instead, it is the Targums that are in the margins.\r\n\r\nThe
    Talmud notes that only Targum Onkelos and Targum Jonathen ben Uzziel are authoritative.
    But the Rabbinic Bible, and similar works, also include other Targums as well.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, Wikipedia may be misleading; it seems to use a different definition of
    Haredim, which lumps the Hasidim in as a kind of Haredim."
  created: '2010-12-21 08:45:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish_commentaries_on_the_Bible\r\n\r\nWho
    was Onkelos?\r\n\r\nOnkelos wrote the most literal translation of the Bible.[5]
    with a few exceptions. Figurative language, is usually not translated literally
    but is explained (e.g., Gen. 49:25; Ex. 15:3, 8, 10; 29:35). Geographical names
    are often replaced by those current at a later time (e.g., Gen. 10:10; Deut. 3:17).\r\nAccording
    to the Talmud,[6] the Torah and its translation into Aramaic were given to Moses
    on Mount Sinai, because Egyptian slaves spoke Aramaic. After the Babylonian exile,
    the Targum was completely forgotten. Onkelos, a Roman convert to Judaism, was
    able to reconstruct the original Aramaic. Saadiah Gaon disagrees and says the
    Aramaic of Onkelos was never a spoken language. He believed that Onkelos's Aramaic
    was an artificial construct, i.e. it was a combination of Eastern and Western
    dialects of Aramaic.[7]\r\n[edit]"
  created: '2010-12-21 08:47:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Without asking my experts, I recall as a yeshiva bachur young man in rabbinical
    studies that it was forbidden to study either a Biblical text by itself, or even
    the main body of the Talmud, known as the Gemara.\r\n\r\nFor example, Shir HaShirim
    by King Solomon is, according to Rashi, a beautiful dialogue between G-d and His
    People. Yet, without a commentary, it could be understood a mere love song between
    a man and a woman.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, the surface meaning of words is deceiving.
    In the case of King David's affair with Batsheva, many non-Orthodox Jewish people
    insist that this episodes shows that King David sinned.\r\n\r\nYet, the Talmud
    argues that this isn't so. \"Anyone who says that David sinned is mistaken\",
    says the Talmud.\r\n\r\nIn fact, Psalm 51 was included in \"Seder Kriat Shmah
    Al HaMitah\", \"the prayers to recited before going to bed\", in order to guide
    us to do teshuva.\r\n\r\nThis is why Scripture with Commentary is misleading."
  created: '2010-12-21 09:04:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I now see that I was wading in much too deep in my ignorance of these matters;
    a Mikraot Gedolot does not have a bunch of other Targumim in it; instead, it has
    other things to which the Haredim would not object, even though they would not
    give them the same authority; they don't object to Rashi.
  created: '2010-12-21 09:06:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... Haredim, which lumps the Hasidim in as a kind of Haredim.\r\n\r\nThis
    is accurate. Heredim is a generic term for an \"ultra-Orthodox\" Jew. Heredi literally
    refers to a person is very devouut or scrupulous in his or her observance.\r\n\r\nHasidim,
    or Chassidim, are simply those who follow in the pathways and according to the
    teachings of Rabbi Israel, the Baal Shem Tov.\r\n\r\nThese teachings have filtered
    far and wide, and have seeped into the modern psyche. The teachings of the Baal
    Shem Tov have become the foundations for modern psychology and modern physics,
    the ways we define how people react and how we perceive the universe."
  created: '2010-12-21 09:13:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I now see that I was wading in much too deep in my ignorance of these
    matters; a Mikraot Gedolot does not have a bunch of other Targumim in it; instead,
    it has other things to which the Haredim would not object, even though they would
    not give them the same authority; they don't object to Rashi.\r\n\r\nMikraot Gedolot
    normally refers to a great collection of commentaries, centered around Scriptures.
    There are multiple Targumim, as well interpretors like Rashi, Ibn Ezra etc. There
    is an old Jewish custom to review the Weekly Portion, together with Targum Onkelos
    and Rashi. Other people study much more, and review these points at the Friday
    evening Sabbath meal, admidst singing of Sabbath songs, known as Zemerot and Niggunim,
    songs and melodies."
  created: '2010-12-21 09:21:47'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "There is a distinction as to how a person should learn Torah and how it should
    be printed. For example, originally, when the Torah was taught (before there were
    books), a Sefer Torah would be brought down do the lecture hall and Torah was
    taught. Obviously, in the holy scroll, there were no commentaries written, but
    just the 5 books of Moses.\r\n\r\nToday, a wide variety of different sources are
    available to be learned and not all of them can fit into one volume. For this
    reason, it is traditional to own a Tanakh WITH NO COMMENTARY and then this can
    be used either as a base text or as a reference. For example, the Talmud scholar
    may want to look up a quoted text to see the context that the Talmud is trying
    to explain from that one fragment.\r\n\r\nWe at Koren have a very nice project
    underway (details will be available in about 5.5 years hopefully) which will provide
    a very compelling volume, but for that Talmud scholar, he won't want a huge volume
    to look up one pasuk.\r\n\r\nI find in my work at Koren, that I'm constantly referencing
    the Tanakh. I like to use a large volume (fortunately we have lots at my work
    :-) ), but I just need the pasuk, not the Rashi or the Onkelus or anything else.\r\n\r\nIt
    should also be noted that in Israel where learning Tanakh is compulsory for all
    students, that a Tanakh with any sort of commentary is not allowed. Also in the
    Haredi (not an \"e\" but an \"a\") cheder system, they teach the kids with a separate
    volume for Torah and then different volumes for the various mefarshim. It's their
    system of learning which is NOT the same as the general Israeli curriculum. I
    know you don't believe me, but it's still true nevertheless :-)"
  created: '2010-12-21 16:35:27'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\n>>  There is a distinction as to how a person should learn
    Torah and how it should be printed. For example, originally, when the Torah was
    taught (before there were books), a Sefer Torah would be brought down do the lecture
    hall and Torah was taught. Obviously, in the holy scroll, there were no commentaries
    written, but just the 5 books of Moses.  <<\r\n\r\nIn old times, and we speak
    in the times prior to the Gaonim, most everyone had a keen insight into reality
    and the presence of G-d in ones life. The commentaries which we know today were
    understood in of themselves in the words of the Torah and in oral explanations
    of the talmid chacham Torah scholar teaching the common readers.\r\n\r\nToday,
    things are different. We do not have a keen insight and the feeling of G-d's presence
    anymore, unfortunately. Hence, G-d delivered great people, like Rashi, Nachmonides,
    etc. to write these commentaries, which were implied in the written words of the
    Tanach, the Talmud etc."
  created: '2010-12-21 17:08:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Today, a wide variety of different sources are available to be learned
    and not all of them can fit into one volume. For this reason, it is traditional
    to own a Tanakh WITH NO COMMENTARY and then this can be used either as a base
    text or as a reference. For example, the Talmud scholar may want to look up a
    quoted text to see the context that the Talmud is trying to explain from that
    one fragment.  <<\r\n\r\nI never heard this before. Do you have a source?\r\n\r\nIs
    this a chidush, a novel idea, from Reb Raphael Freeman? Such a great chidush that
    Moses did not even hear it on Mt. Sinai (and our sages obm say that Moses heard
    the entire Written and Oral Torah)?"
  created: '2010-12-21 17:12:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I find in my work at Koren, that I'm constantly referencing the Tanakh.
    I like to use a large volume (fortunately we have lots at my work :-) ), but I
    just need the pasuk, not the Rashi or the Onkelus or anything else.  <<\r\n\r\nNo
    true Torah scholar avoids the words and explanation of our great sages."
  created: '2010-12-21 17:14:43'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  It should also be noted that in Israel where learning Tanakh is compulsory
    for all students, that a Tanakh with any sort of commentary is not allowed. Also
    in the Haredi (not an \"e\" but an \"a\") cheder system, they teach the kids with
    a separate volume for Torah and then different volumes for the various mefarshim.
    \ <<\r\n\r\nWhat? I have 8 kids, thank G-d. They all learned in a cheder or school
    for girls. No one had a compulsory volume of Tanach without commentaries. Rather,
    they had a separate volume of Bereshet/Genesis, Shmot/Exodus etc. that had Onkelus
    and Rashi, even when they only learned the volume of Chumash/Pentatuech.\r\n\r\nSite
    one cheder that learns as you say!\r\n\r\n\r\n==========================================\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ It's their system of learning which is NOT the same as the general Israeli curriculum.
    I know you don't believe me, but it's still true nevertheless :-)  <<\r\n\r\n\r\nSwear
    on a stack of Koren Bibles.  :)"
  created: '2010-12-21 17:28:20'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Look this argument is circular. You don't believe me. I don't care. We sell
    tens of thousands of Tanakhim every year and we are not the only publisher of
    Tanakhim. Feldheim also has a Tanakh without commentary and they are most definately
    a Haredi publisher. So if you take our sales, and theirs and others, you are talking
    about 100s of thousands of Tanakhim being sold. Clearly we all have a different
    view to you. I think we kind of outvote your 8 kids.\r\n\r\nLet's now end this
    argument since it has nothing to do with typophile and it think is definately
    off-topic. You have your view which I respect. But let's leave it at that."
  created: '2010-12-22 04:46:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I agree.\r\n\r\nApparently, ultra-Orthodox Jews in America may differ from
    Haredim in Israel. \r\n\r\nIn Israel, money generally is very tight, especially
    at private parochial schools. Clearly, a Chumash or Tanach without commentaries
    costs far less than one with two commentaries of Onkelos and Rashi, for the page
    count is less. \r\n\r\nWhen I printed a volume of the Talmud, paper was a 40%
    cost factor. So, to save 10 pages does save some money.\r\n\r\nAlso, in America,
    cheders kindergartens study only one volume of the Chumash or Tanach at a time,
    and don't those heavy books of the entire Chumach or Tanach.\r\n\r\nClearly, things
    must be different here than there, like the Chanukah dreidel says a 'shin' instead
    of a 'peh'."
  created: '2010-12-22 14:48:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Now that the argument has settled, I will mention something that surprised
    me a bit. I was doing some web searches concerning the Mikra'ot Gedolot, that
    is, the Tanakh together with its major commentaries.\r\n\r\nThere was a web result
    for the Haketer Mikraot published in Israel, which, among other departures with
    tradition, is using a conventional typeface instead of a Rashi typeface for the
    commentaries, trusting that a smaller type size is enough so that readers can
    tell which is which.\r\n\r\nIn the United States, the Jewish Publication Society
    it producing \"The Commentators' Bible\", as the first of its kind, something
    that I would have thought would have been done long ago. But perhaps I misunderstood.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I thought someone would have done long ago is prepared an edition of the Mikra'ot
    Gedolot in which the Tanakh itself remained, as in any other edition, in the original
    Hebrew with vowel points - but the Targums, the commentaries, would all be translated
    from Aramaic, whether into Yiddish or into English. (I didn't look carefully at
    the result for The Commentators' Bible to find out if it also contained the Tanakh
    only in an English translation: EDIT - I have checked now; it includes the Hebrew
    text flanked by their own two English translations).\r\n\r\nAlso, since some parts
    of Daniel are in Aramaic rather than Hebrew, which is why Christians have reference
    books with titles like \"A Hebrew and Chaldee Lexicon of the Old Testament\",
    Aramaic being known as Chaldaean as well as Syriac, it may be that I am underestimating
    the level of knowledge of Aramaic in the Jewish community (but none of the Torah
    is in Aramaic, and that is what is used in the <em>bar mitzvah</em>...).\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, not avoiding the sages and commentators is surely asked of all the faithful,
    not merely those who minister to them."
  created: '2010-12-22 18:42:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'Actually, at least for the Torah, it was done at least once before: "The
    Gutnick Edition Chumash", but in that case entirely in English.'
  created: '2010-12-22 21:40:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ...  it was done at least once before: \"The Gutnick Edition Chumash\",
    but in that case entirely in English.\r\n\r\nWhat was done once before?\r\n\r\nI
    know no other work like \"The Gutnick Edition Chumash\". Besides a Bible to use
    in the synagogue for the Torah reading and for profound study, the Gutnick Chumash
    serves as a fascinating tour de force in that it cites the classic questions on
    the verses of the Chumash, and answers them magnificently, so no question remains."
  created: '2010-12-23 02:28:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  In the United States, the Jewish Publication Society it producing \"The
    Commentators' Bible\", as the first of its kind, something that I would have thought
    would have been done long ago. But perhaps I misunderstood.\r\n\r\nEven to this
    day, most Torah literature is out the reach of those who do not understand the
    original. These great books of knowledge in ethics and morality, modern psychology,
    modern physics, medicine, etc. etc., are like the size of more than one Encyclopaedia
    Britanica.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, in this century we will find these matter accesible,
    as it is written in the Zohar about the Flood and the bursting forth of the waters
    as an analogy to the revelation of knowledge in our times."
  created: '2010-12-23 02:40:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nDid you see the \"Bible Unauthorized\"?\r\n\r\nRead and see
    it at http://www.chabad.org/library/article_cdo/aid/145019/jewish/The-Bible-Unauthorized.htm\r\n\r\nAt
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish_English_Bible_translations it is also discussed:\r\n\r\nThe
    Bible Unauthorized\r\n\r\nIn 1942 A. H. Moose published a volume titled The Bible
    Unauthorized that included a translation of the first few chapters of Bereshit
    (Genesis) and a \"treatise\" that \"proved\" the existence of God, the Biblical
    account of creation, and other parts of the Bible. Moose claimed that \"the real
    content of the Bible differs greatly from the many erroneous translations\" that
    preceded his, and that his was \"likely the first accurate translation\".[29]\r\n\r\nAccording
    to the correspondence of Rabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn Moose was the pseudonym
    of Rabbi Aaron Hirsh Levitt, who had worked with Schneersohn.[30][31]\r\nThe Bible
    Unauthorized has been reprinted several times, most recently as In the Beginning:
    The Bible Unauthorized (Thirty Seven Books, 2001).\r\n[edit]"
  created: '2010-12-23 02:48:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I had not heard of that book.\r\n\r\nI had noticed the historical controversy
    about Matthew 1:22-23 quoting from Isaiah 7:14.\r\n\r\nI was astonished at this.
    Since Isaiah 7:14 was known to be a prophecy concerning events to take place in
    the time of King Ahaz, while the prophecy could also have referred to the Virgin
    Mary, with the other woman being what Christian Bible scholars call a \"type\"
    of Mary, since this other event did not involve a virgin birth, clearly the \"young
    woman\" translation is appropriate - in <em>both</em> Testaments.\r\n\r\nThe word
    \"parthenos\" in the Septuagint is also ambiguous; it's only the Old Latin translation
    that turned it into an unambiguous \"virgin\". Given the orthodox Christian belief
    in the plenary inspiration of Scripture, including the New Testament, Matthew
    could not have put an incorrect quotation of Isaiah 7:14 in Scripture, and one
    with \"virgin\" would have to have been incorrect from the original context of
    that passage.\r\n\r\nThus, this is not a question of modernism versus traditional
    belief, but rather how false tradition, ignorance, and bigotry have led people
    into error. The Virgin Birth is unequivocally stated elsewhere in the Gospels,
    there is no need to create a false controversy in order to add another reference."
  created: '2010-12-23 03:13:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S,\r\n\r\nI want to transfer this discussion to another arena. Typophile
    is a site dedicated to type. Lets discuss Bible ideas at www.GoTalk613.com - I
    will post a reply in awhile (around 1 pm EST)."
  created: '2010-12-23 04:07:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John S.,\r\n\r\nThank you for your blog post at www.GoTalk613.com about the
    Christian belief of Virgin and its basis in Scripture, based upon Gospel interpretations
    in Matthew, and in other Gospels.\r\n\r\nThe reply was intended for Jewish readers,
    but I hope that they were enlightening to you as welll.\r\n\r\nThere is an issue
    that you mention 2 or 3 times which concerned me. But I choose not to post it
    there, since it's more of an inquiry nature, and pertains to a negative portrayal
    of Christianity - and my intention there is to focus only upon positive matters.\r\n\r\nYou
    mentioned that certain interpretations by Christian of Hebrew scripture has been
    misused to incite violence upon Jews. \r\n\r\nChristianity portrays itself as
    the loving and brotherly religion. In contrast, some Muslims (many are peace-loving
    and highly respectful of diversity among people) describe their faith as zealous,
    even murderous, to either defend its honor to punish perceived infidels.\r\n\r\nYet
    we see throughout history, except in recent times, that many Christians have behaved
    towards Jews that make Muslim violence pale by comparison.\r\n\r\nI was in the
    former USSR for business. Many people from many different background approached
    me, and heartrendingly and sincerely apologized for what was done to Jewish people.
    \"We destroyed most of your people in Russia,\" they cried. \"We owe you so much.\"\r\n\r\nCan
    the history of Christian violence and massacre against Jews be defended?"
  created: '2010-12-24 13:53:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Of course not. At least, not by me.\r\n\r\nI could defend some things that
    are sometimes counted as Christian bigotry against Jews. Thus, the Gospel accounts
    do clearly state that the then Jewish religious hierarchy, not the Romans, instigated
    the Crucifixion, so one can't really expect Christians to abjure their Scriptures
    in favor of a politically-correct interpretation of history.\r\n\r\nBut violence
    against peaceful people because they are of a different faith is indefensible.
    And, of course, the Jewish people have made inestimable contributions to Western
    Civilization. Mendelssohn, Einstein, Irving Berlin, W. F. Friedman, Georg Cantor,
    Barbra Streisand, Natalie Portman... and hundreds of others have contributed to
    the arts and sciences."
  created: '2010-12-24 16:05:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... the Gospel accounts do clearly state that the then Jewish religious
    hierarchy, not the Romans, instigated the Crucifixion ...  <<\r\n\r\nThis incorrect
    historically. Is this written anywhere in Church literature?\r\n\r\nJesus was
    among many people subjected to a cruel death by crucifixion. His however became
    the most famous.\r\n\r\nThe then Jewish religious hierarchy did not instigate
    or directly cause his crucifixion. The Roman government which organized these
    cruel murders by crucifixion were the sole culprits.\r\n\r\nThere was however
    Jewish rabbinical courts (not the High Court called the Sanhedrin) that tried
    Jesus, and ruled that his actions were worthy of spiritual punishment from heaven.
    This occurred also to the late former Prime Minister of Israel, Mr. Yitzchok Rabin.
    He was tried a kabbalistic rabbinical court of being a 'rodef', a person who encourages
    others to sin. Shortly afterwards, he was assassinated.\r\n\r\nIronically, the
    Oslo Accords that President Shimon Peres and Mr. Rabin worked so hard to formulate,
    are now falling apart. Clearly, since 9/11, President Peres has repented his position.\r\n\r\nThe
    Gospels do not express justification for genocide. Id they do, and I was the Pope,
    I would delete such a thing.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  ...  so one can't really expect Christians
    to abjure their Scriptures in favor of a politically-correct interpretation of
    history.  <<\r\n\r\nThere is a Biblical command to pursue justice, which also
    is the seventh Noahide law, bing upon every non-Jew. As our forefather Abraham
    told G-d Al-mighty, \"Shall the Judge of all judges not carry out justice.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    there is injustice, every person is bound to oppose it.\r\n\r\nThis is different
    that being \"politically-correct\", which is purely a social issue. For example,
    in Nazi Germany it was \"politically-correct\" to ship Jews off to concentration
    camps, and later to even gas them in the gas chambers.\r\n\r\nIn my view, followers
    of Christianity should emulate the Russian people and repent."
  created: '2010-12-24 17:39:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: By "defended" means by virtue of true facts and beliefs, not by ignorant arguments
    and hateful jealousy.
  created: '2010-12-24 17:41:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I cannot defend any violence against the Jewish people. And, indeed, there
    was much in the Western world. In Russia, there were the pogroms until more recently,
    but in Europe Jews were indeed often slaughtered during the Middle Ages.\r\n\r\nThey
    may have been treated as inferiors under Muslim rule, but they were usually safe.\r\n\r\nThese
    are facts, and the West has recognized them. It is largely due to the Holocaust
    that the West finally has recognized the evil of bigotry and discrimination. The
    change of heart that led to resulted, in a few short decades after the Second
    World War, in the downfall of segregation.\r\n\r\nAs the New Testament specifically
    forbids Christians from any kind of violence, those who would use it as an excuse
    for violence against Jews are not following it."
  created: '2010-12-24 21:26:41'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "In honor of the first Jewish Tanakh produced in almost 500 years and the
    first published in the Land of Israel, Israel Post will issue a stamp commemorating
    the fiftieth anniversary of the 1962 publication of the Koren Tanakh in 2012.\r\n\r\nUnbelievably,
    all editions of the Hebrew Bible published since the early 1500s have been based
    upon non-Jewish Scholarship and Sources. Eliyahu Koren produced the first Hebrew
    Bible with Jewish Scholarship, a newly designed Hebrew Font \u2013 Koren \u2013
    and Israeli Design.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Koren stamp LOW
    RES_5350.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-26 17:55:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Raphael, you wrote that Koren type face was inspired by a Karaite manuscript.
    Is a scan of that a page of that available?
  created: '2010-12-26 18:59:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I think the reference is to the Aleppo Codex, and indeed there are many scans
    of that famous document on the Web. There has been some controversy about other
    possible sources of inspiration for the typeface, but none of the other possible
    inspirations have been identified yet.
  created: '2010-12-26 21:43:02'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: Wililam, no, gohebrew wrote that. I don't know what he was inspired by.
  created: '2010-12-27 04:24:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ah. Apparently my understanding of the discussion is in error. I remember
    Israel Seldowitz (gohebrew) making the following statements:\r\n\r\nHe believed
    there was an Ashkenazic manuscript (which he is currently unable to identify),
    the style of writing of which closely resembled Koren; and\r\n\r\nHe stated that
    the makers of Koren claimed they were inspired by one or more Sephardic manuscripts
    instead.\r\n\r\nI thought, though, that <strong>both</strong> he and the other
    side in the discussion (if not Raphael Freeman, someone associated with the company
    responsible for Koren) agreed that the Aleppo Codex was an influence on the design
    of Koren.\r\n\r\nWhether or not the Aleppo Codex should be considered a Karaite
    document is, I think, another matter of some controversy."
  created: '2010-12-27 04:34:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The Wikipedia says that Koren is based on \"Moshe Ben-Asher Codex of the
    Prophets\", and I believe Raphael said that that information comes from him. That
    codex seems also to be called the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Codex_Cairensis|Codex
    Cairensis,]] and seems to be different from the Aleppo codex. Also according to
    the article it was not written by a Karaite, but rather came into possession of
    Karaites.  \r\n\r\nNow I have found a scan of this on line, linked from the Wikipedia
    article. [[http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=File:Cairo-codex-nevi%27im.pdf&page=1|It
    is here.]] The Koren Tanakh typeface is by no means a simple copy of it."
  created: '2010-12-27 05:13:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI quoted a Wikepedia article that you said that you wrote."
  created: '2010-12-27 11:19:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nCan you provide the link of the scan that you found, \"linked
    from the Wikipedia article.\"\r\n\r\nThe Koren Tanakh typeface does have some
    special qualities unique to it. Note the shape of the gimel, for example. The
    middle ride side, that protrudes out. I haven't seen another font design with
    that.\r\n\r\nDavid, what's your view?"
  created: '2010-12-27 11:27:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The Codex Cairensis is indeed very different from the Aleppo Codex.\r\n\r\nIts
    text is close to the Ben Napthali recesnsion, whereas that of the Aleppo Codex
    is close to the Ben Asher recension. It's Ben Asher who has been suspected by
    some to be a Karaite.\r\n\r\nI personally think that the typeface Koren resembles
    the script of the Aleppo Codex with respect of some of its distinctive characteristics,
    but, yes, it is by no means a copy of that hand."
  created: '2010-12-27 11:30:23'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Koreen Gimel from MyFonts\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/koreen_gimel_4718.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-27 11:43:51'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "2 Identical Korens\r\n\r\nGutmann is the left in red, and Masterfont's Koreen
    is on the right in black\r\nMasterfont's is licensed from Koren Publishing\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2_korens_5433.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-27 11:58:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "from:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Koren_Type\r\n\r\nKoren Bible Type\r\n\r\n...
    The font was based on the Moshe Ben-Asher Codex of the Prophets manuscript, belonging
    to the Karaite community in Cairo, the earliest Medieval manuscript with a colophon,
    written in 895 CE in Tiberius.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-27 12:04:25'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I said that that the Koren typeface design, like Hadasa, and unlike Frankrul
    and David, were inluenced by Ashkenazic typeface design, based on my research
    and review of most Hebrew typeface designs.\r\n\r\nEvenough the main audience
    for these Israeli designs (Koren and Hadasa) were Sephardic Jews, of the others
    (Frankrul and David) were Ashkenazic Jews, the designs themselves were either
    Ashkenazic (Koren and Hadasa), or Sephardic (Frankrul and David)."
  created: '2010-12-27 12:20:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Israel, [[http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/79/Cairo-codex-nevi%27im.pdf|here
    is a direct link to the PDF of the Codex Cairensis]]. I don't know what all the
    Koren typeface is influenced by, but certainly Aaron ben Moshe ben Asher is not
    Ashkenazi, as [[http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/biography/benAsher.html|he
    lived in Tiberias according to this article.]] \r\n\r\nAccording to that article,
    there is debate over whether he was a Karaite, though apparently secular scholars
    agree that he was, based on information in the Cairo Geniza. However, almost all
    Jewish bibles rely on his work, as he put the nikkud on both the Cairo Codex and
    the Aleppo Codex. \r\n\r\nAccording to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aaron_ben_Moses_ben_Asher|Wikipedia
    article on Aaron ben Moshe ben Asher]] Saadia Gaon attacked ben Asher as a Karaite,
    and for that reason preferred the nikkud system of ben Naftali. However, he is
    the exception, not the rule, as ben Asher's system is the generally accepted one,
    partly based in the influence of Maimonides, who praised it. Israel, do you object
    to the system of nikkud in the Aleppo Codex? Does Chabad?\r\n\r\nBy the way, the
    gimmel in the Cairo Codex does not have the bump on it as a general rule, that
    I can see. "
  created: '2010-12-27 14:39:39'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> According to the Wikipedia article on Aaron ben Moshe ben Asher Saadia
    Gaon attacked ben Asher as a Karaite...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nEssa Meshali by Saadia
    Gaon was against  Shmuel Ben Asher -- known as Abu al-Tayyib al-Jabali. \r\n\r\nSaadia
    Gaon lived in Tiberias, but he didn't know Ben Asher, or his work; he didn't mention
    Ben Asher in his important grammatical work Kutub al-Lughah  because Ben Asher
    wasn't  famous/widely known (only later on). "
  created: '2010-12-27 19:18:16'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill, \r\n\r\n>>  Israel, here is a direct link to the PDF of the Codex Cairensis.
    I don't know...  <<\r\n\r\nThe link doesn't work by me.\r\n\r\nAnother Reform
    conspiracy!  :)\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-27 21:47:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Israel, do you object to the system of nikkud in the Aleppo Codex? Does
    Chabad?\r\n\r\nNo, should I?\r\nNo. Chabad is education. No politics.\r\nChabad
    wants every person, Jew or gentile, to be the best person that they can. They
    simply say, \"Do another mitzvah.\""
  created: '2010-12-27 21:50:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... for that reason preferred the nikkud system of ben Naftali ...  <<\r\n\r\nHow
    is ben Naftali's nikud system differ?"
  created: '2010-12-27 21:54:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... the gimmel in the Cairo Codex does not have the bump on it as a general
    rule ...  <<\r\n\r\nI've never seen any gimel like that one. Has anyone?"
  created: '2010-12-27 21:54:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  ... Saadia Gaon lived in Tiberias, but he didn't know Ben Asher, or his
    work ...  Ben Asher wasn't famous/widely known (only later on).  <<\r\nand\r\n>>
    \ ... Saadia Gaon attacked ben Asher as a Karaite ...  <<\r\n\r\nThis appears
    contradictory."
  created: '2010-12-27 21:58:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Should I?\r\n\r\nIsrael, I thought in one of your comments you said that
    no holy book should rely on a Karaite, and apparently Aaron ben Moshe ben Asher,
    who is said to have done the nikkud in the Aleppo codex, was a Karaite. That's
    why I ask. \r\n\r\n>Appears contradictory.\r\n\r\nIt is; David is correcting the
    Wikipedia article I was quoting.\r\n\r\n>The link doesn't work.\r\n\r\nIt works
    for me.  \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2010-12-27 23:08:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I've never seen any gimel like that one. Has anyone?\r\n\r\n\r\nCairo Codex:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CaiA1_6247.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nMishnah
    MS:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MishA1_4861.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-28 00:42:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: These gimels, particularly the top example, look like the gimel, in Koren.
    But there is no protrusion to the right.
  created: '2010-12-28 02:01:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Bill, did Asher ben Asher apply the nikkud based on preexisting rules? Or
    invent the entire system and rules?
  created: '2010-12-28 02:03:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Bill, your links usually work for me.\r\n\r\nIf I can trouble you, what's
    the whole address for that html page?"
  created: '2010-12-28 02:07:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here's the html page: http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=File:Cairo-codex-nevi%27im.pdf&page=1\r\n\r\nIt
    has the link on it for the PDF of the scan of the Cairo Codex. \r\n\r\nAccording
    to one of those linked articles, if I remember rightly, Aaron ben Moshe ben Asher
    is said to be a fifth generation Masorite in Tiberius. So he would have been applying
    ideas he knew well about nikkud, but apparently he was very good at it, and also
    wrote his own grammar. David I'm sure can tell you more. I just know what I read
    and David pointed out that some of it is wrong! "
  created: '2010-12-28 02:59:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thanks. This works.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  According to one of those linked articles,
    ...  <<\r\n\r\nSo the nikud he rote in the Allepo Codex was following a tradition
    that preceded him. How did ben Naftali's nikkud different? Was it the same tradition,
    but they differed in their skill set?>\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  ...  also wrote his own
    grammar.  <<\r\n\r\nWhat does this mean?\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  David pointed out that
    some of it is wrong  <<\r\n\r\nI have been told that Wiki is great, but should
    be taken with two grains of salt, because its words are not cast in stone."
  created: '2010-12-28 04:00:41'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nThe famous treatise is Kitab al-Khlif: hillufim, differences between
    ben Naphtali & ben Asher. \r\nThe hillufim refer mainly to the placing of raphe
    & dagesh; in some cases to the vocalization & ta'amim; the placing of the ga'ya.
    \ The differences between ben Naphtali & ben Asher were only of minor significance!!!
    \ They agreed in many things. \r\nben Uzziel, the author of   Kitab al-Khlif,
    does not mention whose reading deserves priority. For example, he wrote:\r\n\r\n\u05D0\u05DE\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05DF \u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05E7\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D1\u05DF \u05E0\u05E4\u05EA\u05DC\u05D9
    \u05E4\u05D9\u05DC\u05D6\u05DE\u05D4 \u05D0\u05DF \u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05DE\u05DF
    \r\n\u05DE\u05E1\u05EA\u05D7\u05E1\u05E0\u05D0\u05EA \u05D5\u05DE\u05E1\u05EA\u05EA\u05E7\u05DC\u05D0\u05EA.
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05DE\u05D0 \u05D0\u05DF \u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05E7\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4
    \u05D1\u05DF \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D5\u05D3\u05DC\u05DA \u05D0\u05D9\u05E6\u05D0
    \u05D7\u05DB\u05DE\u05D4........\r\n\r\nIf he [the reader] follows the reading
    of ben Naphtali, it obligates him to read all of them with raphe and dagesh as
    he, ben Naphtali, does. If he, however, follows the reading of ben Asher, then
    it is also correct....\r\n\r\nA sample, MS:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BA-BN2_4826.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-28 21:43:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: 'Can you send me everything on the previous page: your words and two images,
    at highest resolution that you''ve got, pdf it, and email it to mean. See your
    indox.'
  created: '2010-12-29 01:54:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Can you send me everything on the previous page: your words and two images,....\r\n\r\nwhy
    do you need that?"
  created: '2010-12-29 02:12:49'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I want to study them very carefully. Do you have other examples too? \r\n\r\nI
    see things that you may not.\r\n\r\nDavid, you know letter forms of old manuscripts,
    and Hebrew grammar seemingly very well. \r\n\r\nWhat about typesetting, or letter
    setting by hand? "
  created: '2010-12-29 02:18:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "From the illustrations of a Mishnah MS given, I would only draw the conclusion
    that it is impossible to be certain of a protrusion to the right. I am inclined
    to think that a very slight protrusion (about 1/5 the size of that in the Koren
    face) is definitely a possibility from the images given.\r\n\r\nThat is, the stroke
    for the lower part of the Gimel basically ends at the right of the vertical stroke,
    but the rounding added by the shape of the pen extends beyond."
  created: '2010-12-29 03:30:33'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> your words and...\r\n\r\nwhich words?  That stuff: .....\u05D0\u05DE\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05DF \u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05E7\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D1\u05DF ?\r\n "
  created: '2010-12-29 04:28:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "What differences?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/david_sample_bn_ba_4874.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-29 04:54:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "JS,\r\n\r\nKoren invented the protrusion to the right by drawing it unnaturally.
    Then, it became like Letraset.\r\n\r\nThis is athafcha mamash. It no longer was
    ben Asher's gimel."
  created: '2010-12-29 04:59:36'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David's MS samples seem to be a testimony of ben Asher script, which was
    large, clear, and readable, while ben Naftali's was cramped, unclear, and small
    by comparison. As David writes that their pointing of nikkud was nearly identical,
    with a few exceptions. Perhaps, Saadia Gaon, who preferred ben Naftali's work,
    disagreed with ben Asher's concoctions.\r\n\r\nThe top manuscript appears to be
    a letter or non-religious document. I assume that it was ben Asher.\r\n\r\nThe
    bottom manuscript appears to be notations about certain nikkud pointed words with
    comments. The shape of the kuf, with left lower vertical bar reaching up to touch
    the top horizontal bar appears unique, like Narkiss and David at times. I assume
    that it was ben Naftoli.\r\n\r\nIf however the authors are reversed, it is very
    puzzling.\r\n\r\nJohn, you are much more articulte with intent than David."
  created: '2010-12-29 15:31:59'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">  a testimony of ben Asher script... while ben Naftali's was cramped, unclear,
    and small by comparison...\r\n\r\n?????\r\n\r\nThe scribe/author is ben Uzziel!
    The author of Kitab al-Khlif. Both samples! Who said anything about ben Asher/
    ben Naftali?\r\nThe first sample is Judeo-Arabic. The second sample is  Hebrew
    + Judeo-Arabic."
  created: '2010-12-29 16:13:05'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Both samples are from the same scribe? this is hard to believe.
  created: '2010-12-29 16:52:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Who said anything about ben Asher/ ben Naftali?\r\n\r\nThat's what we
    were talking about.\r\n\r\nok. so, i got this wrong. back to bottle washing."
  created: '2010-12-29 16:53:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nWhat does this show us?"
  created: '2010-12-29 16:54:40'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Both samples are from the same scribe? this is hard to believe.\r\n\r\n\"Drastic
    times\" call for \"drastic measures\"; that was the only way to end this new theory
    -- \"Koren invented... It no longer was ben Asher's gimel\", ben Naftali's was
    cramped, unclear, ben Asher is better etc.etc. etc. So, for our purpose sample
    1 is Kitab al-Khlif ; sample 2 is  Kitab al-Khlif. Not ben Asher/ben Naftali handwriting!"
  created: '2010-12-29 19:02:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Not finding any Google results for "Kitab al-Khlif", I managed to find one
    result in a search for "ben Uzziel" which was for Mishael ben Uzziel, rather than
    Jonathan ben Uzziel, which allowed me to find out that the usual transliteration
    of the work in question, the "Book of Variants", or "The Book of Differences between
    the two Masters, ben Asher and ben Naftali", is "Kitab al-Hulaf".
  created: '2010-12-29 19:39:47'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nDo you have samples of \"Kitab al-Hulaf\", \"The Book of Differences
    between the two Masters, ben Asher and ben Naftali\", the \"Book of Variants\"?"
  created: '2010-12-30 03:47:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "If I understand correctly your words, John S., and those implied by David,
    the content of the manuscript is about the different approaches of ben Asher and
    ben Naftali, and were scribed by the sample person, Mishael ben Uzziel, who is
    the author as well.\r\n\r\nThese two manuscripts,  Kitab al-Khlif and Kitab al-Halaf,
    are not visual examples of the handwriting of ben Asher and ben Naftali. This
    does not concern us. Rather, they have descriptions of their different approaches.
    These descriptions then define for use the differences between ben Asher and ben
    Naftali.\r\n\r\nDavis says that these differences between ben Asher and ben Naftali
    are minor.\r\n\r\nDavid wrote:\r\n\"The hillufim refer mainly to the placing of
    raphe & dagesh; in some cases to the vocalization & ta'amim; the placing of the
    ga'ya. The differences between ben Naphtali & ben Asher were only of minor significance!!!
    They agreed in many things.\r\nben Uzziel, the author of Kitab al-Khlif, does
    not mention whose reading deserves priority.\" \r\n\r\nben Uzziel had no preference
    to either one's approach, said David. Though Saadia Gaon preferred ben Naftali.\r\n\r\nFuther,
    only some scholars believe that ben Asher was a Karaite. Hence, Saadia Gaon objection
    to ben Asher's approach may regard a technical issue, and not because he viewed
    him as a Karaite, which he likely did not.\r\n\r\nIs this correct?"
  created: '2010-12-30 04:09:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "What has me confused is this quotation: \"If he [the reader] follows the
    reading of ben Naphtali, it obligates him to read all of them with raphe and dagesh
    as he, ben Naphtali, does.\" I would have thought that if we're talking about
    rules for placing vowel points and accents, it doesn't matter <strong>what</strong>
    rules the reader prefers, if he is reading something written by a follower of
    ben Napthali's rules, he should interpret the points according to those rules,
    and if he is reading something written by a follower of ben Asher's rules, the
    pointing should be read according to those rules - because the goal, when reading
    a text, is to arrive at the vocalization of that text which was intended by the
    scribe.\r\n\r\nWhich can, of course, be accepted or rejected as an accurate depiction
    of the vocalization intended by the <em>author</em> depending on which school
    of <em>textual criticism</em> one follows. But one doesn't try applying a set
    of vowel pointing rules to a written text which don't match the ones it was written
    with.\r\n\r\nI would have thought that this would be obvious even to people who
    didn't look at things with the \"modern perspective\"."
  created: '2010-12-30 04:23:17'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "May I make a request when discussing the Koren font? When posting examples
    of the font, please use the real font and not Gutman's or Masterfont's old versions
    that was available from places like myfonts. They are not the real thing. They
    are interpretations of the font.\r\n\r\nThe real Koren font that Eliyahu Koren
    designed is now available for purchase from Masterfont, but gohebrew does not
    have this typeface. Therefore ALL the samples that gohebrew is posting are NOT
    THE KOREN FONT!!!!\r\n\r\nSo please, when discussing the influences of the Koren
    font, please discuss the real thing and not other people's interpretations of
    the font.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2010-12-30 05:44:48'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  Masterfont's old versions\r\n\r\nAre their different versions?"
  created: '2010-12-30 07:35:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "When I post samples, and use Gutmann's font, I call it \"Keren\", as he did.\r\nWhen
    I post samples, and use Materfont's Kareen, I call it either \"Kareen\" or \"Koren\",
    because Raphael said that they are the same. Plus, Tzvika of MF received E. Koren's
    approval, that his Koreen is a replica of Koren.\r\n\r\nDid E. Koren approve Materfont's
    old or new version?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nMy Henri is a version of Hadasa approved
    by Henri Friedlaender. The others were not. Do you see the difference?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hadassah1_5769.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-30 08:36:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Why was ben Naftali occupied with a rafe and a dagesh, and ben Asher was
    not?\r\n\r\nWhat is a rafe glyph?\r\nWhat is its function?\r\n\r\nAre there different
    views for a dagesh?"
  created: '2010-12-31 02:32:47'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>When I post samples, and use Gutmann's font, I call it \"Keren\", as
    he did.\r\nWhen I post samples, and use Materfont's Kareen, I call it either \"Kareen\"
    or \"Koren\", because Raphael said that they are the same. Plus, Tzvika of MF
    received E. Koren's approval, that his Koreen is a replica of Koren.\r\n\r\nDid
    E. Koren approve Materfont's old or new version?</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay, let me try,
    once again, to clear up this confusion. There are many variations of the Koren
    font out there. Gutman did one, Masterfont did one, heck even you did one! Gutman's
    Keren was not done with permission of Koren. On the other hand, Masterfont did,
    he asked Koren to look it over and pays royalties every month to Koren on sales
    of the font. However, it is a variation. It's not the original font.\r\n\r\nAbout
    4 years ago, Koren decided to digitise the font. We decided to use Masterfont
    as our font foundry so now Masterfont sells 2 versions of the Koren font, the
    \"variation\" that they created many years ago with the consent of Koren and the
    real Koren font that we use at Koren.\r\n\r\nI'm using the word \"variation\"
    so that this thread doesn't dissolve into a legal argument of rights etc on the
    font.\r\n\r\nAgain, since the difference between the variations and the original
    are quite large when it comes to this forum (although of course to the ordinary
    guy in the street the differences might not be noticeable), I would request only
    posting the original real Koren font for comparisons and not Gutman's or Masterfont's
    variations.\r\n\r\nAnd yet again, the real Koren font is now available for purchase
    (and has been for at least a couple of years) from Masterfont.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-01 16:46:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I am confused: is MF's version that they sell,, called Koreen. identical
    to MF's Koren, as your have said?\r\n\r\nGoHebrew has inquiries to sell copies
    of its Crown? GoHebrew intends to no matter your position, this is permitted by
    US Copyright law. Our customers are purchasing the software on US soil.\r\n\r\nCan
    GoHebrew secure a license to pay a royalty based on sales from Koren Publishing
    LTD, even though this is not required?\r\n\r\nIn addition, GoHebrew will offer
    CrownBible, Shmuel, and ShmuelBible, without a royalty.\r\n\r\nCrownBible and
    ShmuelBible feature a lesser difference between the thinner and thicker strokes
    for improved Bible reading.\r\n\r\nShmuel has many of the design characteristics
    of Shmuel Gutmann's Keren.\r\n\r\nEach font will be a true OpenType font, support
    Unicode fully, have all Hebrew grammar glyphs, and useful typesetting glyphs,
    unavailable from other venders, such as MasterFont."
  created: '2011-01-01 23:01:17'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "<cite>I am confused: is MF's version that they sell,, called Koreen. identical
    to MF's Koren, as your have said?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat I have said previously in
    other threads, but will repeat for the purpose of clarification, was that Masterfont
    called their variation of the Koren font, MFKoreen <em>and</em> MFKoren. However,
    these MFvariations are both the same font (perhaps one has slightly improved kerning
    due to technilogical advances), ie a varation of Koren, but neither is the real
    Koren font.\r\n\r\nThey also sell the real Koren font which is sold under the
    name Koren Tanakh (and also Koren Siddur for the siddur version of Koren).\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of licensing, this is not a conversation for this forum, but I can be contacted
    off-line.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-02 04:19:42'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Raphael,\r\n\r\nI want to send you a proposal, but neighter Koren Publishers
    Ltd., or Jerusalem Type, show an email address. Plus Jerusalem Type's contact
    form bombs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-02 22:47:15'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Jerusalemtype is no longer operating.\r\n\r\nMy address is my first name
    @korenpub dot com."
  created: '2011-01-03 03:25:34'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Thanks.
  created: '2011-01-03 04:11:39'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Every kosher edition of the Bible or Old Testament must have a secondary
    commentary in a spoken language - The Talmud\r\n\r\n?No valid edition edition
    of the Bible may appear alone without a commentary because the Bible may not clearly
    understood on a literal basis - The Tslmud\r\n\r\nSee examples from Orthodox publications"
  created: '2011-04-27 11:16:53'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "I am going to quote a couple of Rabbis that perhaps will allay any halakhic
    concerns.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"To my rabbincal colleagues and students throughout the
    world,\r\nI hereby recommend the publications of Eliyahu Koren, who has performed
    a great service in publishing the Holy Scriptures according to Jewish tradition,
    with careful regard for accuracy in spelling, vowels and accentuation, open and
    closed Portions, and the like.\r\nI call upon my friends and students to assist
    the representatives of Koren Publishers Jerusalem by distributing the Tanakh in
    synagogues and Batei Midrash, in schools and in private homes. This crucial initiative
    is worthy of our added encouragement and assistance.\r\n\"...and joyous are those
    who hold her fast!\"\r\nRespectfully, Joseph B. Soloveitchik, Thursday, 26 Tammuz,
    5726\r\n\r\nAnd if The Rav isn't enough for you, here's Rav Moshe Feinstein on
    the Koren Bible:\r\n\r\n\"I have just viewed the full Koren Bible printed in Jerusalem.
    I was impressed by the great meticulousness with which the parshiyot in Prophets
    and Ketuvim are distributed, according to traditoin and the Talmud. The Book of
    Prophets, too, is divided into parshiyot as well as sdarim symbols which have
    never been printed until this day. In addition, Koren's editors were very scrupulous
    regarding vowels and vocalization (taamey mikra), pleasing to the eyes of the
    great Rabbis of Israel. I consider it of great importance that every Jewish home
    possesses this comprehensive Tanakh... Most Tanakhim include mistakes and typographic
    error which may have become embedded in many editions. Yet the Koren Tanakh is
    well proofread and very reliable, as testified by its users. Therefore it is advisable
    that such a Tanakh be found in every house as well as each synagogue and Beit
    Midrash, all the more since it was printed by a Jewish concern.\r\n26th of Tevvet,
    5726, New York.\r\n\r\nFor those who are not familiar with the Jewish world, these
    two Rabbis, Rabbi Soloveitchic and Rabbi Feinstein represent two of the greatest
    halakhic authorities of the 20th century in the United States and perhaps in the
    entire world. (There are of course others)\r\n\r\nTo my knowledge, no other Bible
    has ever received such praise and in such a manner."
  created: '2011-04-28 17:31:10'
- author:
    name: raphaelfreeman
    picture: 131669
  body: "Just thought it might interest you to know that the in the case of Koren
    vs Microsoft where Microsoft were being sued for providing Gutmann's rendition
    of the Koren typeface in it's software, Microsoft were found guilty and Microsoft,
    as well as being fined are no longer allowed to sell software with the Gutmann
    Keren typeface.\r\n\r\nIt's nice when the court rules in favour of the designer!"
  created: '2012-07-05 13:04:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Why wasn't Gutmann himself stopped? Is it because that he never had Microsoft's
    big bucks?\r\n\r\nRegarding GoHebrew's Crown, I redrawing it in the Brooklyn,
    NY, based on a design created in Rochester, NY, to avoid any legal questions,
    except by those who use it in Israel (use I don't an Israeli court would oppose).\r\n\r\nIt's
    much better than the Koren you have, but Gutmann's design is a definite improvement,
    as I pointed above with scanned examples."
  created: '2012-12-14 05:22:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Every kosher edition of the Bible or Old Testament must have a secondary
    commentary in a spoken language - The Talmud</cite>\r\n\r\nIs this not somewhat
    complicated today by the fact that people <em>do</em> speak Hebrew nowadays? There
    <em>are</em> still people who use Aramaic as their spoken language, but IIRC,
    they're not Jews. Does this mean that for a Tanakh to be kosher, it should have
    the Targum present in translation - into English, Hebrew, or even Yiddish?"
  created: '2014-03-19 07:04:43'
date: '2010-11-19 09:23:33'
title: Crown, Keren & Koreen (aka Koren)

---
