---
author:
  name: quadibloc
  picture: 118515
body: "The topic says it all. Newspapers could be set in Frank-R\xFChl with a Linotype
  machine well enough, and in cold metal, tiny spaces and quads could handle the job
  of putting vowel points and Masoretic accents below letters.\r\n\r\nBut it's hard
  for me to believe that Hebrew, when set with points, was invariably set by hand,
  and only by hand, until the computer age. My web searches have not pointed me to
  any information on how Hebrew with points was set, either on a Monotype caster,
  or with classic photocomposition equipment, but I would think that somehow it was
  managed.\r\n\r\nI could be too optimistic. For Monotype, something like the method
  used in four-line mathematics would be needed - to retype the line of text when
  producing accents so as to produce blank slugs of the same width as each letter
  when an accent was not desired. But then making the accents match their corresponding
  letters in width would presumably require counting units all the time. The alternative,
  somehow casting the accent on the same body as the letter, doesn't appear to have
  been something that would have been considered practical."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Funny, I spoke today with Scott-Martin Kesofsky about this topic.\r\n\r\nWhen
    Scott was young, he worked in this field.  He has friends who also did this, and
    I believe that one currently still does (the last of the Mohekans). Mathew Carter,
    he told me, was actually a punch-cutter, a long long time ago. I'm sure that he
    might be able to point you in a useful direction. He's on this forum too.\r\n\r\nIt
    would be fascinating, if those who had access to metal Hebrew type would scan
    and post them. High resolution scans I would create into OpenType fonts, to preserve
    the designs for future generations.\r\n\r\nI know at RIT in Rochester, NY had
    set up a printing press for metal type, and used it about 20 years ago. I don't
    know if they have the manpower anymore. You might look there."
  created: '2010-11-30 21:08:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I've hunted around some more, and I've been able to confirm, from the Alembic
    Press web site, that Monotype did offer the ability to set Hebrew with points
    for at least one typeface - Sonzino, a face similar to Meruba (apparently a classic
    Siddur style).
  created: '2010-11-30 21:19:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Sonzino, aka Soncino. was the surname of the first families to engage in
    Hebrew publishing. I believe David Bomberg was afterwards.\r\n\r\nThe Soncino
    I don't think was associated with them. I might be wrong. Rather, the Soncino
    name was applied to denote an old design.\r\n\r\nIn my view, Soncino is not at
    all like the Merubas design, which appears in many many versions. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/various_6658.jpg]"
  created: '2010-11-30 22:42:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I found one image of Monotype Sonzino on the web, in a U.S. government document
    giving a classification of type styles, which it illustrated with Latin and non-Latin
    scripts. That short sample, visible at\r\n\r\n[[http://www1.y12.doe.gov/capabilities/sgml/sc34/document/0163/0163.htm]]\r\n\r\n(scroll
    down to 4.3.1, Serifs::Modern::Continental)\r\n\r\nlooks more like Vilna than
    the sample of Soncino given. (The image is apparently a .BMP file, and it may
    not display properly in all browsers.)\r\n\r\nAlso, I should mention that in my
    web searches earlier today, I ran across this page, in which some people might
    be interested:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.jericho-press.com/]]\r\n\r\nThey're selling
    an edition of sixty numbered copies of \"The Hebrew Types of the Jericho Press\"."
  created: '2010-11-30 23:50:18'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Here is the sample. It's misnamed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sonzino_6358.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nIt
    is a variant of the classic square letter, rarely - if ever - used by Orthodox
    Jews, and recently by most everyone.\r\n\r\nOne of the ways to tell that the design
    is \"not in the fold\", is by looking at the design of the shin."
  created: '2010-11-30 23:52:01'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "See how each is a little different.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/various2_4360.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-01 00:43:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I re-visited the Alembic Press site, and noticed that Peninim was also available
    with points. Peninim 217 was the version of that with points, and Sonzino 218
    was the version of that one with points.\r\n\r\nAnd here's another sample of Sonzino,
    misnamed as it may be, at\r\n\r\n[[http://www.stjepantafra.com/blog/povijest-pisma-tipografski-prirucnik/]]\r\n\r\nThe
    image itself is\r\n\r\n[[http://www.stjepantafra.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/03/image029-e1268157061524.png]]\r\n\r\nand
    the image seems to answer my question as to how Hebrew with points was achieved
    with the Monotype caster. Apparently, they achieved it the same way as polytonic
    Greek was achieved, by making every combination a separate character - which was
    possible because only the vowel points, and not the Masoretic accents or cantillation
    marks were offered.\r\n\r\nOf course, at 22 letters, times 12 possible vowel point
    values (7 basic vowels, sh'va, no point, 3 vowels with sh'va... oh, wait, furtive
    patah makes 13), times 2 for the presence or absence of the dagesh still won't
    quite fit in a matrix-case, but it could be that some combinations are uncommon."
  created: '2010-12-01 00:47:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@gohebrew:\r\n<cite>It is a variant of the classic square letter, rarely
    - if ever - used by Orthodox Jews, and recently by most everyone.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    seems quite strange to me.\r\n\r\nFrom my viewpoint, shaped by typographic fashions
    in the Latin alphabet world, the Vilna/Romm/Siddur faces seem to have the same
    kind of timeless elegance as Helvetica and Times Roman, so I would expect them
    to be the standard.\r\n\r\nFrank-R\xFChl, on the other hand, seems dated. Perhaps
    like a so-so Scotch Roman, for example, Monotype's Modern No. 7, much beloved
    of the makers of scientific textbooks before 4-line mathematics came along. Of
    course, this would apply to some forms of the classic square letter too; Drugulin
    is clearly dated.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, the popularity of faces like David,
    Hadassah, or Koren seems mystifying. They are good typefaces, and so they should
    be popular... up to a point. But for them to be <em>as</em> popular as they are
    now, for general purpose use, seems strange. After all, Lydian or Freehand or
    Zapf Chancery, praised as they may be, are not normally used for setting ordinary
    text.\r\n\r\nOf course, some of the answer to that may be found in the form of
    the Hebrew letters themselves. The dictum \"Type follows the pen\" (I am not sure
    to whom this one is owed; I saw it come up in a discussion here, but I forget
    the name of the type designer: I don't think it was Gerrit Noordzij or John R.
    Biggs) is considerably more true for Hebrew than it is for the Latin alphabet,
    for which type often follows the chisel."
  created: '2010-12-01 13:05:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Let me clarify, for many non-Jews find my earlier point illogical. It is
    illogical. The issue is not design related, but use related.\r\n\r\nThis typeface
    design, and others, have nothing 'wrong' about them. But they have been used for
    Christian publications. As such Orthodox Jews feel intimidated to use the same
    designs for their holy books.\r\n\r\nHence, Romm etc is acceptable, but this is
    not.\r\n\r\nDuring the last 40 years, Frank-R\xFChl has become an established
    standard in Jewish religious publications, as Hadassah too.\r\n\r\nKoren and David
    never caught on, even though the main Bible in Israel is in Koren. If we study
    the design attributes of Hadassah, it may well be the best Hebrew design as of
    yet. Frank-R\xFChl is more popular than you describe.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/various3_4822.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-01 18:37:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm confused. I wasn't describing the popularity of Frank-R\xFChl; I'm aware
    that it's very popular, but to me, it looks a bit dated, and so, it seems to me
    it would be less popular if Israelis looked at Hebrew typefaces with an aesthetic
    based on the same fashions as generally applied to typefaces in the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nI
    can understand what you describe, though. Since Christian editions of the Old
    Testament in Hebrew follow <em>their</em> form of practice of respect for the
    text of Scripture - put the best text known from current research in the body,
    and list any alternates in footnotes, even if the traditional text is now an alternate
    - a Christian edition of the Old Testament in Hebrew is likely to give offense
    to many observant Jews.\r\n\r\nAnd so the idea - whether it is on the part of
    readers or <em>publishers</em> - may be to ensure that when someone picks up a
    genuine copy of the Tanakh prepared according to the Jewish tradition, they ought
    to be able to know at once and at sight that they're holding the <em>real thing</em>
    in their hands.\r\n\r\nWhat I am puzzled by, instead, is why Vilna isn't being
    used for newspapers and ordinary secular literature!"
  created: '2010-12-01 21:43:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: ">>  I'm confused ... in the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\nDon't be confused. In
    Hebrew, there is a pertinent saying which explains the unendin appeal of Frank-R\xFChl.
    The Hebrew saying is: \"\u05D8\u05E2\u05DD \u05D5\u05E8\u05D9\u05D7 \u05D0\u05D9\u05DF
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05EA\u05D5\u05D5\u05DB\u05D7\". This means literally: \"We don't
    debate taste and smell\". This means that things like beauty, tastes, or smell,
    are subjective, and can not  be objectively judged.\r\n\r\nFrank-R\xFChl established
    itself in the early twentieth century, and by default replaced Vilna as the standard
    Hebrew typeface design. Perhaps, it became so popular, because it was so exposed,
    in newspapers, ads, books etc. Perhaps, it was so used because it has narrower
    widths than Vilna, because it did away with the Bodoni like thin and thick strokes,
    or maybe because G-d wanted us to look at Frank-R\xFChl a lot.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>  I
    can understand what you describe, ... in their hands.\r\n\r\nNo, you don't understand
    yet.\r\n\r\nSince a typeface was used in a non-Jewish book, even in a phonebook,
    were there such a thing, Orthodox Jews would shy away from that typeface. They
    would prefer a Jewish-looking typeface instead used only for Jewish books. \r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't have to do with Christian scholarship, or the fact \"their\" typeface
    was used in an Old Testament. In fact, the early Hebrew printers, like David Bomberg,
    was not Jewish, yet his printed works were warmly accepted in the Jewish community.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, there is an interesting discussion in the Talmud (tractate 12, Bava Metzia,
    the Middle Gate) about at what point can a Jewish person buy a book from a non-Jew,
    if the same kind of book is available from a Jew.\r\n\r\nJews are considered relatives
    to each other (\"\u05DB\u05DC \u05D9\u05E9\u05E8\u05D0\u05DC \u05D7\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05DF\"), and try to support each other financially. However, if the non-Jewish
    bookseller cries out, then Jewish buyers must buy from him or her.\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \ What I am puzzled by, instead, is why Vilna isn't being used for newspapers
    and ordinary secular literature!\r\n\r\nIt was until the mid-tentieth century,
    but since then Frank-R\xFChl took over. I think the main reason that Frank-R\xFChl
    was so used, and Vilna was put out to pasture, was because the main typesetting
    manufactures only made Frank-R\xFChl.\r\n\r\nThis no longer is the case."
  created: '2010-12-02 00:22:35'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Vilna Hudar - one of many Vilna \"square-letter\" designs\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth
    - GHB Vilna Hudar v1_5013.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-02 06:58:54'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The old version\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth -
    GHB Hudar Bold v1_3506.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-02 19:46:54'
- author:
    name: Scott-Martin Kosofsky
    picture: 116286
  body: "I haven't read through this entire thread, but I'd like to quickly shed some
    light on Quadibloc's question, before Shabbos begins in Boston. Mechanical typesetting
    with nikkud was achieved by the American Monotype Company in 1927, and was the
    system used to set hundreds of liturgical works throughout the world, though perhaps
    most notably by the Press of Maurice Jacobs, in Philadelphia. Linotype, who had
    offered Hebrew since about 1903, had never been able to solve the nikkud problem
    within the confines of their system. (One should also mention that the Ludlow
    Company, which made hand-set line-casting machines, mostly for display, offered
    a wide variety of Hebrew types, many specifically for the Yiddish newspaper market,
    which was a thriving and highly competitive business in early 20th-century America.)
    \r\n\r\nMy friend J. F. (\"Chip\") Coakley, ex of Harvard and now of Cambridge
    University, has recently written the best short short history of early mechanical
    Hebrew typesetting (in metal) to date, in a lovely book he printed himself (letterpress,
    of course) at his Jericho Press. I recommend it highly. The website is www.jericho-press.com.
    \r\n\r\nMore later!"
  created: '2010-12-03 21:04:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Now that the sun has set here in Edmonton this Saturday night, I thank you!
    I did come across the Jericho Press book in my web searches. I wish I could just
    buy a copy, but at the moment, sadly, that would be awkward. (I presume the book
    you're referring to is \"The Hebrew Types of the Jericho Press\"? Or is there
    one that I didn't see mentioned even more closely connected with the subject?)\r\n\r\nMy
    main interest is in finding out what technical device was used to solve the problem.
    As I may have noted, I am guessing that something like the scheme used for 4-line
    mathematics is involved, where one first types the letters (with any points appearing
    above them or within them precomposed) and then types another line with the points.
    Qoph and some final forms would overhang, so one would have to always put a space/quad
    in the corresponding position when doing the line of points, with their points
    also precomposed.\r\n\r\nSince overhangs in the Monotype system extend upwards,
    and not downwards, however, it may be that the points are typed first - and that
    the usual reversal mechanism for setting Hebrew is not used, with the characters
    being upside-down in the matrix case instead. (Which would explain where the upside-down
    Alephs appearing in mathematics came from.)\r\n\r\nAnd, if there were a need for
    so many precomposed characters that both the points and the letters couldn't fit
    into the same matrix case - there was an attachment to the keyboard to allow preparing
    two tapes at once (usually used for preparing the same body copy in two different
    point sizes or column widths)... and so one could use that to prepare a points
    tape and a letters tape, and have two separate runs on the caster.\r\n\r\nIn that
    case, one should do the points run first, so that the kerns aren't lying around
    to get broken.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Seeing a video of a caster in operation, I see that
    doing the letters and points in separate passes is not an option, because the
    lines of text are stacked together by the machine."
  created: '2010-12-05 00:26:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The fact that the machine stacks successive lines of text together also affects
    the utility of dispensing with the reversal mechanism. Hmm...
  created: '2010-12-05 01:50:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ah. Let us assume that the existing mechanism for setting type in Hebrew
    operated not by reversing the direction in which type left the mold beneath the
    matrix-case, but instead the Hebrew matrices were upside-down in the mold, and
    what was reversed was the direction in which lines of type were assembled in the
    galley.\r\n\r\nThat would seem to take care of everything: now, the overhang from
    characters taller than the slug would extend below the slug, and the line of characters
    would be typed first, followed by the line of points.\r\n\r\nHowever, the problem
    would then be how to avoid the kerns below the slugs from being broken as each
    new line of type is added to the column of text upon the galley.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    the bar that shoves the type to the operator's left, now, instead of to the operator's
    right, with the galley now on the other side of where the row of type exits the
    machine, would have to be made lower so that it definitely only makes contact
    with the row of type under space height, so as not to push on the kerns.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    instead of pushing the type just out of the way, it would have to push the row
    of type a little extra distance away, so that the kerns, if any, are out of the
    way of the next row of type.\r\n\r\nThird, so that the type slugs containing the
    points, when pushed into those containing the letters, don't themselves catch
    on the kerns, the first small area of the galley, past which each row of type
    is pushed, needs to have a small incline, so that the new row of type approaches
    the preceding one from below.\r\n\r\n(Even if I have correctly anticipated the
    mechanical improvements required in every particular, I still wonder as to just
    what, precisely, would be the contents of the matrix-case for such typesetting.
    I suspect that it would be difficult to find room for everything that was needed,
    but the 15 x 17 matrix-case may have been available then, although this was long
    before the days of the 16 x 17 matrix-case and the unit-shift that went with it.)"
  created: '2010-12-05 06:23:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "What I proposed would have been possible if only an extremely limited set
    of accents appeared above the letter. Perhaps Rafe, `Ole Weyored, Pazer Magnum,
    and Azla, and no others. Combine them with the presence or absence of Dagesh,
    and one's matrix-case is already almost full.\r\n\r\nOf course, there's Holem
    to take care of as well.\r\n\r\nIf that isn't possible, it seems like more radical
    steps, outside of what is usually acceptable as extensions to the Monotype system,
    would be required. It seems that, at the least, either the height of the mold
    would have to be subject to variation, or slugs would have to be allowed to have
    projecting kerns at both top and bottom.\r\n\r\nThus, in one pass, one types the
    accents that go above the letter - and the letter Lamed, with its accents precomposed.\r\n\r\nIn
    the second pass, one types the letters other than Lamed; only Dagesh and Mappiq
    are precomposed.\r\n\r\nIn the third pass, one types the accents that go below
    the letter.\r\n\r\nIt seems that a pass in which the line is quadded out would
    be required between the second and third passes, or blank spaces between each
    line of text plus excessively large projections below the line, or a way to vary
    mold height would be required if this is needed. So I may be missing some ingenious
    step that was used in practice.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Examining closely a typical example
    of Hebrew with points, while the accents above the line are too varied to allow
    precomposed characters, they are also infrequent, so perhaps they could be set
    by hand. However, the two examples I've seen of Hebrew set by this method didn't
    include any accents above the line, except for Sin dot, Shin dot, and Cholem,
    including Cholem with Vau as a <em>mater lectionis</em>.\r\n\r\nAlso, the set
    sizes for the Hebrew faces with points are significantly smaller than their point
    sizes, so apparently the wide characters aren't included; thus, it seems that
    even with points, and even allowing for some rare cases to be handled by hand,
    this system was not intended to allow fully annotated Biblical texts to be set."
  created: '2010-12-05 17:31:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "New Hebrew\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ruth - GHB New
    Hebrew v 2_6031.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-10 10:35:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: That's definitely a nice classic Hebrew face. Incidentally, though, I can't
    seem to find the currently-active web site of the concern where your typefaces
    are made available. The site [[http://www.philidor.com]] appears to be forthcoming,
    [[http://www.gotalmud.com/]] appears to be related to Jewish faith and life in
    a more general way or to a new edition of the Talmud, and another site I located
    that I thought might be associated with your typographic endeavors appears to
    mostly sell software for Arabic-language word processing.
  created: '2010-12-10 20:00:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have received a personal communication, which I have permission to share,
    from David Bolton of the Alembic Press, conveying information from Chip Coakley.\r\n\r\nFrom
    a [[http://www.letterpress.ch/APINET/IMMPDF/SPECIMEN.MONOTYPE/Table.Monotype.founts.html|document]]
    available on the www.letterpress.ch site, I found that Peninim with points comes
    in 7, 7 1/2, 8, and 9 points, and these sizes are cast in 5 1/2 set, and 7, 7,
    and 7 set respectively, and that Sonzino with points comes in 9 and 10 points,
    both at 7 1/2 set.\r\n\r\nI had wondered why they were set with such a narrow
    size of em. But one of the items of information from Mr. Coakley explained this.\r\n\r\nAs
    I surmised, somewhat like the superscripts and subscripts of 4-line mathematics,
    one first typed a line of Hebrew, and then under it a line of points. But to simplify
    typing the line of points, the Hebrew letters were cast in only two widths: 9
    units and 18 units.\r\n\r\nGiven the narrow set, my assumption is that the letter
    Shin was designed to be the same width as most Hebrew letters, and the narrow
    letters (that is, regular Ghimel, Vau, Zain, Yod, Nun and final Nun) were half-width.
    Placing a vowel under the vertical stroke of Daleth and Resh was probably accomplished
    by using a half-width vowel, although certainly it would have been possible to
    find room in the matrix-case for a Chireq and a Sh'wa that were moved over even
    further to the right.\r\n\r\nAlthough it was noted that overhangs were used, nothing
    specific was said to confirm my surmise that reversing the direction of the line
    of text also meant that the overhang was now on the bottom of the slug instead
    of on the top, as is the usual case on the Monotype system.\r\n\r\nIt was also
    mentioned that Monotype did have available a way of typesetting accents in addition
    to vowels with Hebrew, but there was some awkwardness with that.\r\n\r\nMy guess
    is that it would be necessary to type the accents with the letter Lamed in one
    line, then the other letters, then the vowels, and that would be awkward enough.
    But what was mentioned was that the height of the mold had to be changed between
    phases, perhaps with a special attachment to make that easier."
  created: '2010-12-24 16:23:10'
date: '2010-11-30 20:26:06'
node_type: forum
title: Hebrew With Points... in Hot Metal

---
