---
author:
  name: riccard0
  picture: 117627
body: "Ascender Corp. Acquired by Monotype Imaging:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/pr/2010-12-08/\r\n\r\nUpdate
  10.Nov.2011, (part of) Bitstream (MyFonts included) Acquired by Monotype Imaging:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/87262"
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Wasn't Ascender started by refugees or defectors from Monotype? What's the
    story behind the story here?
  created: '2010-12-08 14:36:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Ascender was formed before Agfa sold Monotype Imaging. Perhaps the Ascender
    founders were trying to avoid visits to Belgium. :-)
  created: '2010-12-08 16:11:05'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Arial + Comic Sans Rebus FTW!!!
  created: '2010-12-08 17:18:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I have no immediate plans to cash out.\r\nSo the monopoly will have to wait."
  created: '2010-12-08 18:17:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: And here I thought someone was trying to identify Kabel.
  created: '2010-12-08 18:20:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: LOL.
  created: '2010-12-08 19:34:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I'd sooner have guessed (Bhikkhu Pesala's) Kabala in that case.
  created: '2010-12-09 10:15:06'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Buy your Comic Sans 2010 now from Monotype Imaging! \r\n\r\nWill there still
    be April fools jokes?"
  created: '2010-12-09 11:08:21'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: So every designer or foundry with Ascender contracts will be now a part of
    the big Monotype univers.
  created: '2010-12-10 09:18:59'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Guess that's the risk of going with the Times.
  created: '2010-12-10 10:03:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Inertia is an easy course of action.\r\nHowever, I would imagine that most
    contracts have cancellation clauses.\r\nOr may be renegotiated.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-10 15:51:08'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Monotype House\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/161906028_5e3a507d27_b_3522.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-12 12:49:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Uhm\u2026\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/87262"
  created: '2011-11-10 23:45:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm curious, what do formerly-Bitstream's people in Noida, India do exactly?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 04:47:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The "If you can't beat them, buy them out" policy which has been so successful
    with the banking industry and airline industry seems to be also working quite
    well to keep the type industry equally healthy.
  created: '2011-11-11 04:57:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Looks to me like we now have three categories of foundries: 1. the non-designer
    owned foundries\u2014now only one; 2. The foundries associated with primarily
    non-type companies\u2014Adobe, Microsoft; 3. Designer-owned foundries. "
  created: '2011-11-11 17:03:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Pretty soon, my mortgage, my bank, my airline, and my type will all belong
    to the same company :-/
  created: '2011-11-11 18:08:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Pretty soon, my mortgage, my bank, my airline, and my type will all belong
    to the same company :-/\r\n\r\nThe United States Federal Government? Don't forget
    your auto-maker. "
  created: '2011-11-11 18:35:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Nope. MicroAppleSoft.
  created: '2011-11-11 18:40:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nope, \"The 1% of the 1%\"\r\n\r\nSi,\r\n\r\nThe Chinese Government is far
    more likely than the U.S. Gov ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-11 18:42:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "After giving this a lot of thought, I think the only way to move forward
    is for type designers to unionize. The problem will be getting all the dead type
    designers to join. I think the Mormons may have worked out a solution for that
    but I'm not entirely sure. \r\n\r\nComrades, are you with me? ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-11 18:45:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You remember TyD, right?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 19:12:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Well, at least the impending merger puts to rest the question of "Who's your
    Daddy?"
  created: '2011-11-11 19:30:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Si, Perhaps just a coop would be better.  We make an online setup like MyFonts
    and each contribute a fair and reasonable percentage for operating cost.
  created: '2011-11-11 19:35:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "So $50 million for Bitstream, really MyFonts. Given the multiples that these
    sales usually work on, that means MyFonts is generating around $13 million a year.
    The real question, is who is going to buy this Monotype/Agfa/Linotype/ITC/Ascender/Bitstream
    amalgamation?\r\n\r\nIt is all venture capital so I can't imagine it will stay
    in current hands for long. They are interested in making money, not licensing
    type.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 19:35:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@James,\r\nDonald Trump :-)"
  created: '2011-11-11 19:36:59'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The real question, is who is going to buy this Monotype/Agfa/Linotype/ITC/Ascender/Bitstream
    amalgamation?</cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s an interesting question. Bill Gates does
    not seem interested in developing the type business that Corbis acquired when
    it bought Veer. Steve Jobs could have done a bang-up job, but he is out of the
    picture. I think it\u2019s more likely to be a small purchase by a massive holding
    company that wants a small but steady stream of revenue that is relatively insulated
    from local economic shocks. But I\u2019m not a business guy, so my guesses would
    just be the obvious mammoths like Bain or Berkshire, and they\u2019re to big to
    bother.\r\n\r\n<cite>Si, Perhaps just a coop would be better. We make an online
    setup like MyFonts and each contribute a fair and reasonable percentage for operating
    cost.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomething like Vllg, but without the focus on mammoth families
    and editorial faces, might be a good idea. But is there someone out there who
    really knows how to put that together? If most type folks were great at digital
    retail we wouldn\u2019t have hooked up with MyFonts to begin with."
  created: '2011-11-11 20:51:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The folks who started MyFonts are out there, James.
  created: '2011-11-11 21:48:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The folks who started MyFonts are out there, James.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    have they expressed any interest in starting another online font store? When they
    cashed out did they contracts they signed prohibit them from even doing so?"
  created: '2011-11-11 21:50:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'I anxiously await to hear the presidential candidates weigh in on this topic. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: ' The Texas Gov does not remember the question; The WackJob lady is too
      busy getting her face tightened; The GodFather guy is booking time on Maury;
      The Geezer has wax in his ears; The other guy is just waiting out the competition.'
    created: '2011-11-11 21:58:19'
  created: '2011-11-11 21:53:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> The folks who started MyFonts are out there, James.\r\n\r\nChris, \r\n\r\nthe
    folks who started MyFonts are still at MyFonts, and I don\u2019t think much will
    change in that respect :) \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s already about 7-8 years ago that a
    couple of the original team members left the project and since then, MyFonts hired
    some new people, but practically all of the original team members are still with
    MyFonts. I joined the team some 9 months after the project\u2019s inception and
    have been working for MyFonts for 11 years now \u2014 and I don\u2019t intend
    to go anywhere. \r\n\r\n(One person whom we do miss indeed, and owe a huge lot,
    is Charles Ying, then-Bitstream Chairman who came up with the MyFonts idea and
    nurtured the project from its early years. He passed away in 2010.)\r\n\r\nRemember,
    when MyFonts started, there was much trouble in the air because of the fact that
    it was Bitstream who started the project. Back then, Bitstream was considered
    the \u201Cbad guys\u201D: \u201Cthe knockoff boys who almost killed the industry
    for bundling 900 fonts with Corel Draw and selling a 500-font-CD collection for
    $50\u201D. \r\n\r\nI try to judge people based on the quality of the work they
    do, not based on the labels they carry. When I was joining the MyFonts team in
    2000, it was important to me that Bitstream showed its intentions to \u201Cclean
    up its licensing mess\u201D \u2014 and they did. (2003 was the final round when
    they signed licensing agreements for some Linotype designs \u2014 which Bitstream
    still sold under different names, but the designs were finally licensed). \r\n\r\nFrom
    what I\u2019m hearing from the new owners, one of the main reasons why they paid
    $50 million for MyFonts was because they found our project to be successful, and
    I like to think that one of the key factors behind its success has always been
    the team (I think they mentioned that, too). \r\n\r\nAfter 11 years now, I can
    say that it\u2019s by far one of the best teams I\u2019ve ever worked with, or
    heard that anyone\u2019s worked with. The MyFonts people are dedicated, focused
    and show amazing work ethics (by my standards anyway). It\u2019s also true that
    we\u2019ve enjoyed great autonomy and freedom in running MyFonts. \r\n\r\nI for
    myself cannot imagine \u201Cstarting another online font store\u201D. So far,
    MyFonts has been the place where I could see my best and sometimes craziest ideas
    come into existence. The spirit and chemistry among the team has been just mind-blowing
    (without exception, for 11 years \u2014 beat that!), and I expect this to continue
    the same way. \r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s important: Monotype says that they recognize
    the way the team operates as a key factor behind MyFonts\u2019 success, so I\u2019d
    be rather surprised if they decided to suddenly change things. Of course, we shall
    see how it goes \u2014 but I don\u2019t really think the question would be any
    less open if anybody else acquired MyFonts (say, an investment bank or whatever).
    \r\n\r\nIn a sense, while I did recognize the fact that Bitstream was MyFonts\u2019
    owner, that fact never was of paramount importance. Had MyFonts been owned by
    Monotype or whomever else from the very beginning, I guess the same would have
    been true.\r\n\r\nEconomic theories say that monopolistic developments are not
    good for the market because they slow down innovation and make people lazy. Well
    \u2014 at least from what I\u2019ve learned from working with the MyFonts people
    for 11 years is that those folks are anything but lazy or lacking innovation.
    \r\n\r\nDunwich Type writes: \r\n\r\n> When [the folks who started MyFonts] cashed
    out\r\n\r\nThe folks to cash out would be Bitstream shareholders. Bitstream has
    been a publicly traded company for a long time now. If *you* had bought any shares,
    you\u2019d be one of those to cash out, I guess. Not sure, however, whether the
    Bitstream shareholders are the ones whom Chris is referring to as \u201Cthe folks
    who started MyFonts\u201D. The MyFonts team consists primarily of employees of
    the company as well as consultants (such as myself). And most of us were in their
    early 20s when we started the project. \r\n\r\nOne thing is certain: consider
    that Monotype Imaging bought Linotype for $60M and MyFonts for $50M (a rather
    comparable amount). I still remember the times very vividly when we hit the first
    1,000,000 purchases, or when MyFonts broke even financially. It\u2019s amazing
    that within ten years, the humble work of not much more than a dozen people helped
    generate this value, and that I\u2019ve had the privilege to be part of it almost
    from the very beginning. \r\n\r\nSo \u2014 let\u2019s get back to work. As usual,
    there are many amazing things that we want to do! \r\n\r\n(Incidentally \u2014
    I do have quite a few good friends and colleagues within Linotype and Monotype,
    so actually I am glad that I\u2019ll probably have more chances to talk to them
    and work with them. Monopolies aren\u2019t very welcome but fierce competition
    can be as damaging.)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-12 00:20:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Not sure, however, whether the Bitstream shareholders are the ones whom
    Chris is referring to as \u201Cthe folks who started MyFonts\u201D\r\n\r\nAdam,\r\nI
    was referring to the people who did the work as a labor of love hands on, not
    the investors.  I have no problem with the much needed investors and greatly thank
    them but they were not the ones to whom I referred."
  created: '2011-11-12 00:22:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>It\u2019s amazing that within ten years, the humble work of not
    much more than a dozen people helped generate this value</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    and the work of the participating foundries, of course!"
  created: '2011-11-12 00:24:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "James writes: \r\n\r\n> They are interested in making money, not licensing
    type.\r\n\r\nAre these mutually exclusive things? So far, I\u2019ve had the naivety
    to believe that the point... Oh, wait. Where\u2019s that Google Web Fonts and
    open-source discussion again? ;) "
  created: '2011-11-12 00:25:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Well, and the work of the participating foundries, of course!\r\n\r\nAbsolutely!
    This is why I wrote \u201C*helped* generate this value\u201D. The foundries did
    all the hard work anyway, and truly are the ones who generated the value. We\u2019ve
    only provided a platform for typefaces to be discovered, enjoyed and licensed. "
  created: '2011-11-12 00:28:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\n> I was referring to the people who did the work as a labor
    of love hands on\r\n\r\nThank you, that\u2019s what I thought you meant :) Well
    \u2014 in that case \u2014 those folks have been with MyFonts, and are with MyFonts.
    Different investors now. Same hands on! "
  created: '2011-11-12 00:30:04'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "They are not mutually exclusive things at all. I'm thinking about companies
    like Bertelsmann, Disney, Universal etc. \r\n\r\nKing of all media..."
  created: '2011-11-12 02:27:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: I think it's funny that every time something like this occurs, it's reported
    that all the people in the company acquired won't be going anywhere. Everything
    will stay exactly as it was.
  created: '2011-11-12 03:38:15'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Richard,\r\n\r\nActually, the press announcements in this case tell a different
    story. Monotype did not acquire Bitstream as a whole but the font business including
    MyFonts, along with some things like patents trademarks. Other parts of Bitstream's
    business (Bolt, Pageflex), remain in a separate company. I think it's useful to
    know who's joining Monotype and who will go to the other company (which will no
    longer be called Bitstream since AFAIK the Monotype acquisition included the rights
    for the Bitstream name, which of course makes sense since that name has been used
    extensively in the context of the Bitstream font library). \r\n\r\nSo for \"all
    of Bitstream\", not everything will stay exactly as it was, and I wasn't under
    the impression that it's been reported in a way that would suggest that it would.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-12 07:20:56'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "\"\r\nDear MyFonts: \r\n\r\nRegarding to latest news about Monotype will
    be acquiring the font business of Bitstream. I can just hope that MyFonts' services
    will stay as fast as they are now.\r\n\r\nPosted on November 11, 2011\r\nMyFonts
    says: \r\nIt's all good. Monotype intends to keep the MyFonts team and our method
    of operating exactly as it is today.\r\n\""
  created: '2011-11-12 08:30:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thanks for the clarification Adam.  I didn't mean specifically this acquisition
    it was just meant to be an offhand observation. Companies are always concerned
    about alarming customers fearing changes to come. (If things are going fairly
    well, that is.)\r\nBut I did not make that clear. I did wrong, frankly. I went
    OT, in a fashion.\r\n\r\nBut my mistake did prompt you to clarify a bit, and that's
    a good thing, so thanks.\r\n\r\nYesterday, I had a type designer - who shall remain
    nameless, but is very much in the mainstream, not libr&eacute; - tell me that
    he thought this new entity was <strong>truly</strong> a Monopoly with a capital
    M. (Not makin' it up just to be provocative. There seems to be some nervousness
    about this and what it means for font distribution, at least in the short run.)\r\n\r\nGot
    thoughts?"
  created: '2011-11-12 14:50:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I would be concerned if MyFonts were to stop passing on the email addresses
    of its customers to its suppliers.\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting to see if Myfonts
    web font licensing model can coexist with Monotype's.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-12 16:21:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It will be interesting to see if Myfonts web font licensing model can coexist
    with Monotype's.\r\n\r\nWell, Monotype does provide self-host options, but it's
    not surprising that they promote the service model. If Bitstream had ben able
    to invest in developing their own web font service then my guess is they'd have
    been promoting that option too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-12 17:35:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Quiet day. '
  created: '2011-11-12 17:42:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Quiet day.\r\n\r\nWell put #2. Or is FSI #2 now, and FBI #3? ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-12 17:47:30'
- author:
    name: billdavis
    picture: 109965
  body: "I like quiet days. The last couple was pretty crazy for me. Little did I
    know what I signed up for when I took on the role of managing type designer and
    foundry relationships here at Monotype Imaging. :)  \r\n\r\nLike many others,
    I have the utmost respect for the MyFonts team and the dynamic font community
    they have built \u2013 and I echo Adam\u2019s comments about looking forward to
    the opportunity to work together to grow and support that community, and to maintain
    and strengthen the MyFonts.com."
  created: '2011-11-12 18:32:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>The foundries did all the hard work anyway, and truly are the ones
    who generated the value. We\u2019ve only provided a platform for typefaces to
    be discovered, enjoyed and licensed.</em>\r\n\r\nSo how much of that $50 million
    is going to be shared with the people who generated the value that Bitstream are
    now cashing in on?"
  created: '2011-11-12 19:37:36'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@jh\r\n\r\n<em>\"So how much of that $50 million is going to be shared with
    the people who generated the value that Bitstream are now cashing in on?\"</em>\r\n\r\nBravo,
    John. You're consistent, I have to hand that to you.\r\n\r\nYes, why weren't the
    type designers in for a piece?\r\n\r\nWhy do the credit card companies make more
    per download on a song than nearly all recording artists do?\r\n(This is factual.)\r\n\r\nWhy
    doesn't the assembly line worker at an automobile plant get a percentage of the
    sale and subsequent sales of the car she worked on?\r\n(Not bizarre. Just never
    done. Why <strong>not</strong> structure compensation that way?)\r\n\r\nBecause
    the system was and is set up another way, and it was never challenged.\r\n\r\nBTW
    - I feel bad that Bill Davis - who I like, personally - is stuck with the job
    of delivering the post-acquisition blather. Yuck.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-13 03:02:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...the system was and is set up another way, and it was never challenged.</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href =\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gBdclC0TtGA\">Wasn't it?</a>"
  created: '2011-11-13 04:00:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, I\u2019m not able to answer your specific question.
    However, I\u2019ll try to help. First, let\u2019s have a look at how companies
    work, in a somewhat simplified model: \r\n\r\n1. You want to set up a company.\r\n2.
    Usually, you need money to finance your operation. That\u2019s called capital.
    You find capital: either you invest your savings (in which case you\u2019re the
    owner, i.e. sole shareholder or stockholder), or you take up a credit at a regular
    bank (in which case you\u2019re also owner but have a credit running that becomes
    part of your expenses \u2014 but we\u2019ll get to that later), or you sell shares
    aka stocks of the company (then you have other shareholders/stockholders, i.e.
    co-owners). \r\n3. You can offer the shares to an investment bank, in which case
    it becomes the shareholder or co-owner of your company. Or you can sell the shares
    to some selected individuals. Or you can offer them for public trading (so-called
    IPO). \r\n4. You set up a business model. You have expenses and you have revenue.
    If you\u2019re selling some vendors\u2019 products, you typically offer the vendors
    a deal: a part of the revenue (your first expense) goes directly to the vendors.
    \r\n5. The other part of the revenue (your commission) covers your other expenses:
    office rent, revenue taxes, reserves, investments, payroll for employees, consultants,
    payments to contracting companies and other \u201Ccost of operation\u201D. \r\n6.
    The revenue minus the expenses equals profit. You perhaps pay some taxes off the
    profit, and then you distribute the profit to the shareholders (i.e. owners) as
    a dividend.   \r\n7. As long as your company is a publicly traded company, anyone
    with some spare capital is free to buy the stocks from existing shareholders who
    are willing to sell them. At any time, employees, consultants or vendors can become
    shareholders as long as they buy the stock. \r\n8. You continue to run your business
    as long as you decide to do so. \r\n9. If you decide to stop running the business,
    you negotiate with your shareholders a potential sale of the shares, and negotiate
    with prospective buyers. \r\n10. If the negotiations with both parties work out
    fine, the transaction happens: the buyer acquires the shares from the shareholders
    (i.e. owners), and becomes the new owner. The former owners i.e. shareholders
    receive a payment. \r\n\r\nTo sum it up, there are typically three groups (roles)
    of people who contribute value and receive money in exchange while a business
    is running: \r\na) Vendors contribute their goods and receive payments as part
    of the business deal outlined in item 4. \r\nb) Employees and consultants contribute
    work, contracting companies contribute services, and they all receive payments
    as part of the item 5. \r\nc) Owners i.e. shareholders contribute capital, and
    they receive payments as part of item 6, and \u2014 should if items 9 and 10 occur
    \u2014 as part of 10. \r\n\r\nAs I wrote above, the roles listed above can be
    interchangeable: vendors, employees, consultants or contracting companies are
    free to become co-owners or shareholders as long as they contribute capital. If
    they do so, they become recipients of the payments in items 6 and 10. \r\n\r\n>
    So how much of that $50 million is going to be shared with the people \r\n> who
    generated the value that Bitstream are now cashing in on?\r\n\r\nIf you\u2019re
    a shareholder of Bitstream \u2014\_which has been a company traded publicly in
    the U.S. (NASDAQ symbol \"BITS\") \u2014 I assume that there are appropriate channels
    where you can find it out. I\u2019m not a shareholder of Bitstream and am not
    involved much in stocks trading in the U.S., so I cannot answer your specific
    question. \r\n\r\nSome information about the acquisition can be found in the <a
    href=\"http://www.marketwatch.com/story/bitstream-inc-agrees-to-sell-font-business-to-monotype-imaging-files-registration-statement-for-spin-off-of-non-font-business-2011-11-10\">Bistream
    press release</a> and the <a href=\"http://www.marketwatch.com/story/monotype-imaging-to-acquire-the-font-business-of-bitstream-inc-2011-11-10\">Monotype
    Imaging press release</a>. Also, according to <a href=\"http://www.google.com/finance?client=ob&q=NASDAQ:BITS\">Google
    Finance</a>, Bitstream currently has a market capitalization of approx. $57.7M.
    You may also find the <a href=\"http://biz.yahoo.com/e/111110/bits8-k.html\">SEC
    8-K filing summary</a> or the actual SEC filing materials (<a href=\"http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/818813/000119312511307248/0001193125-11-307248-index.htm\">1</a>
    | <a href=\"http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/818813/000119312511307245/0001193125-11-307245-index.htm\">2</a>)
    interesting. \r\n\r\nBut I hope I was able to clarify the issue a bit, and provide
    you with some pointers to where and how you can find more information! :)  \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-13 06:03:32'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Hey yo, I'd like to take this opportunity to give some well earned kudos
    to Monotype Img.. I own a successful company (it was two separate companies but
    I merge them into a single company, but still feels like two for me. First one
    I started in first year uni way back in '91) so I know a thing or two about survivability.
    \r\n\r\nTYPE is up three bucks from their common share IPO - is that about right?
    And a healthy market cap to throw around town too. That's pretty good in today's
    environment - so ya kudos for building a solid day job!  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-13 06:06:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So how much of that $50 million is going to be shared with the people
    who generated the value that Bitstream are now cashing in on?</em>\r\n\r\nWhy
    would I expect a cut from my distributor when that business changes hand?\r\n\r\nIt's
    their business, not mine, which I still have.\r\n\r\nIt could also be said that
    Bitstream has generated a large part of my business's value, as a major distributor\u2014and
    I don't intend to share any of its value with them.\r\n\r\nHowever, IMO fonts
    are worth considerably more than three times annual revenue, which is a rather
    generic or default multiplier. \r\nBut you get what you can, and that goes for
    both parties involved in the deal.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-13 08:49:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Quiet and peaceful day too. What piece? What system? What's blather? ;)
  created: '2011-11-13 18:03:03'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: So what major foundries are left after Bitstream's assimilation? All I can
    think of are Font Bureau, P22 and Berthold...
  created: '2011-11-13 20:11:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Thank goodness that is all you can think of.
  created: '2011-11-13 22:24:07'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@mjkerpan\r\n\r\nThere are over 300 type foundries in my bookmarks directory\u2026
    A substantial percentage of those sell their own products. So\u2026 not all are
    major, but together they probably equal the new MT-entity."
  created: '2011-11-13 22:35:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam, I know how corporate capitalism works. As you may have noticed, Tiro
    tries to operate in a different way. I believe -- doubtless to my own financial
    detriment -- that the people who create value should share in the returns on that
    value to a proportionate degree, and that one shouldn't seek to profit from the
    labour, skill and creativity of another person except insofar as you add value
    to what is produced (a distribution system adds value, for instance, but is of
    its nature secondary to the production of the thing distributed). So when <em>you</em>
    acknowledge that 'the foundries did all the hard work anyway, and truly are the
    ones who generated the value', I'm bound to ask what share those value-generators
    get of the income from the transfer of ownership of that value. I know they probably
    won't get any, because Bitstream -- like most companies in the capitalist system,
    as you describe -- is set up in a way that rewards people who have had no direct
    hand in the creation of the value, but have only wagered on the ability of the
    people who have.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, here we plug along trying to make good things
    and sharing the profits among the people who contribute their labour, skills and
    creativity, 'cause that's how we roll."
  created: '2011-11-13 22:54:26'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> However, IMO fonts are worth considerably more than three times annual
    \r\n> revenue, which is a rather generic or default multiplier.\r\n> But you get
    what you can, and that goes for both parties involved in the deal.\r\n\r\nNick,
    \r\n\r\nplease note that according to the current NASDAQ stats, Bitstream\u2019s
    current total market capitalization is some $57.7M. Total market capitalization
    means: the total price which the market participants would be willing to pay for
    all of Bitstream\u2019s stocks. In recent times, the BITS stock price was on a
    slight declining course, with no major changes. Of course the \u201Ctotal market
    capitalization\u201D is a bit of a fictitious value because if the stockholders
    offered all the shares for sale on the open market at the same time, that price
    would not be achieved. But given that the Monotype merger has not covered all
    of Bitstream (i.e. the Pageflex and Bolt businesses are being spun off), the $50M
    sum seems rather close to the stock value. \r\n\r\nSo \u2014 while I don\u2019t
    really have any actual knowledge about this whatsoever \u2014 it seems to me that
    the price paid at the merger has simply been a fair reflection of the current
    market value, not necessarily based on the annual revenue multipliers. In that
    respect, I don\u2019t see anything \u201Csensational\u201D (either way) happening.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-13 23:00:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "MyFonts does not have exclusive access to the value font makers add to its
    business. And the value goes both ways. The value to MyFonts to me, as a font
    producer, is its excellent website and customer base. I signed an agreement with
    them where all the terms were spelled out, and I don't remember seeing anything
    in it about paying me some kind of bonus if they changed hands.\r\n\r\nI love
    MyFonts and I just hope they can keep doing what they do so well."
  created: '2011-11-13 23:06:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: (a distribution system adds value, for instance, but is of its nature
    secondary to the production of the thing distributed)\r\n\r\nIt does way more;
    in the case of MyFonts, it has enabled a great many foundries to be founded and
    create fonts, which wouldn't have existed otherwise. MyFonts type tester, which
    shows OpenType features, has been a stimulus to the production and dissemination
    of OpenType-featured fonts; and if I am wrong about its primary agency, at least
    it is part of the economic micro-system which furthers that cause.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026the
    price paid at the merger has simply been a fair reflection of the current market
    value, not necessarily based on the annual revenue multipliers.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    that is the case, the market has been distorted by the relative size of the players
    here\u2014in particular Monotype, which has a strong negotiating position due
    to the lack of other potential purchasers.\r\n\r\nSurely a typeface that pulls
    in revenue over many years should be valued on that basis. \r\n"
  created: '2011-11-14 03:09:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Fair points, Mark and Nick.
  created: '2011-11-14 04:45:16'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: I wonder if Bitstream will continue to have the fiction of an independent
    existence a la Linotype and ITC or if it will simply assimilated into the Mono-borg.
  created: '2011-11-14 15:50:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I like Hudson's link. \"This video kills fascists\" it should say. Cool.
    The union movement is given short shrift these days, and that's unfortunate.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-14 16:21:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The value of creating markets, which Mark and Nick point to is only one problem
    for Marx''s labor theory of value, which you have alluded to, John. While it has
    a moral appeal, it has never worked as an economic theory. For example, in order
    to price your fonts you would have to include the labor of all those involved
    in inventing and producing your computer, the software, the internet, the books
    you''ve read etc., etc. Nobody has ever made it work. Making capitalism more just
    and human is a crying need, but for anything that will actually work, I think
    you''ll need to look elsewhere than Marx.  '
  created: '2011-11-14 16:36:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">wonder if Bitstream will continue to have the fiction of an independent
    existence \r\n\r\nInteresting choice of words. Would you consider the Audi, Bentley,
    Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, SEAT, and Skoda brands fictional because they are
    part of Volkswagen AG? If a brand has value it will be retained.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-14 17:11:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Unless that brand is called "British Leyland"  :-)
  created: '2011-11-14 19:29:09'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '*puts face in hands*  . . .'
  created: '2011-11-14 19:30:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@db\r\n\r\nSurely you remember Gracie Slick's song lyric, \"Blather was thirty
    years old today.\"\r\n\r\nOh, yeah, it was \"Lather\". Sorry."
  created: '2011-11-14 21:18:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I don't think I alluded to Marx's labour theory of value, although
    I think its 'moral appeal' lies directly in the common sense appreciation that
    value <em>is</em> created by labour and, although the total value of a thing cannot
    be calculated from this basis, to deny it is, at least, morally unappealing.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not looking for an economic theory, I'm looking for a way of doing business that
    puts profits into the hands of the people who make things: not instead of into
    the hands of people who finance things, but more equitably distributed, so that
    capital -- and its corollary, power -- is concentrated in fewer hands and more
    people can have a greater say in how their lives are organised and to what end.
    Capitalism left to its own devices will never become 'more just and human', because
    neither justice nor humanity are its concerns. When individual capitalists behave
    in ways that are just and humane regardless of the effect on financial return,
    they do so contrary to capitalism, out of personal beliefs that are, at best,
    orthogonal to capitalism and frequently in opposition to it. Such beliefs can
    be a starting point for reform, but only widespread structural change is going
    to humanise economic activity. I believe this structural change should subsist
    in worker ownership, whether directly (roughly how we run Tiro), through <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mondragon_Corporation\">cooperatives</a>,
    or in joint ventures (there is a successful <a href=\"http://harmacpacific.com/employees.php\">pulp
    mill</a> near here that is jointly owned by the workers and a group of private
    investors). Where such businesses have been established, they compete in the same
    market as capitalist businesses, which is ample evidence that commercial activity
    is not reliant on the capitalist class, that the free market may be just as free
    -- <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a-0gxca-VxM\">or more so</a> -- without
    them.\r\n\r\nEighty years on, <em><a href=\"http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/pius_xi/encyclicals/documents/hf_p-xi_enc_19310515_quadragesimo-anno_en.html\">Quadregismo
    Anno</a></em> remains pertinent reading."
  created: '2011-11-14 21:43:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "MyFonts foundries just received a new email explaining the acquisition.  The
    line that I find troubling is:\r\n\r\n\"When foundry contracts come up for renewal,
    we will of course revise the contracts to reflect the new ownership.\""
  created: '2011-11-14 22:03:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Perhaps that's just the \"official\" way of saying they'll change the name
    and address on the top of the page. \"reflect the new ownership\" sounds more
    technical and serious.\r\n\r\nBut the fact that you're reading into things of
    that nature doesn't bode well for them.\r\n\r\nCheck out Fontspring, or one of
    the other smaller distributors. They're just as web-savvy, commercially ambitious,
    and certainly as innovative as myfonts.\r\n\r\nNothing lasts forever - especially
    market dominance on the web."
  created: '2011-11-14 22:10:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nothing lasts forever\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBut \u201CTrajan\u201D is giving
    a good impression."
  created: '2011-11-14 22:17:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: But Nick, Trajan really is etched in stone  ;-)
  created: '2011-11-14 23:33:18'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Chris, that essay also points out that royalty rates will not change, if that
    is what has you worried.
  created: '2011-11-15 00:03:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...also points out that royalty rates will not change\"\r\n\r\nI hope you
    are right in your interpretation, James."
  created: '2011-11-15 00:45:47'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "John,\r\nIn a post-industrialist service-oriented society, how do you define
    \u201Cmaking things\u201D? Isn\u2019t a website, a database, a user interface
    or, more abstractly, a user experience, also a \u201Cthing\u201D that somebody
    has made, and invested a lot of know-how and time and creativity into? What people
    get for their money when they visit a website is not just this \u201Cthing\u201D
    called a typeface or a book or a toaster, it is also their buying experience,
    the information provided, and perhaps quick and good service if something goes
    wrong. A distributor like MyFonts offers these things and seems to do a good job
    at it. Is it part of the product or isn\u2019t it? It seems to be part of the
    reason why people come back, so it\u2019s part of what people are willing to pay
    for. If a designer/foundry is not very interested in providing all of that, then
    they can either try to sell their \u201Cthing\u201D as is, without the same quality
    of experience attached; but they might be doing users a disservice, or simply
    not reach any users. Or they outsource that part of their product, and pay a commission
    based on the success of the service (i.e. sales). Why would producing this service
    at a mutually agreed price be in any way unethical or redundant? \r\n\r\nYou seem
    to argue that service is, in any case, of a lower order than \u201Cthings\u201D.
    I don't want to get into that. Much of my work is a hybrid of both; and I think
    that valuing the part of my work that results in something tangible higher than
    the part that results in somebody smiling or nodding, would be \u2026 counter-productive.\r\n\r\nBtw,
    a typeface also has an abstract component. It implies, or provides, a user experience
    which can be good or not so good. This is independent of its actual drawings,
    the stuff that you can see and almost touch and that makes it most similar to
    a \u201Cthing\u201D. In fact, that part (OT programming, Unicode compatibility,
    etc.) is quite similar to user interface programming. Less thing-ness, but just
    as crucial to the experience. Which takes me back to my initial question: define
    \u201Cthing\u201D."
  created: '2011-11-15 15:46:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, there are a lot of questions that are important and too demanding to
    get into depth here, aside from the fact that I'm not knowledgeable enough to
    do it well. \r\n\r\nBut two points anyway. One of the discoveries in my wife's
    book [[http://www.amazon.com/Success-Agricultural-Transformation-Isabelle-Tsakok/dp/0521717698/ref=tmm_pap_title_0|Success
    in Agricultural Transformation]] is that the Left has made the mistake of thinking
    who owns what is the key issue. I think you're making that mistake. The mistake
    on the Right has been to think that income inequality doesn't hurt anything, which
    is also wrong in a big way. \r\n\r\nThe other thing is that the minimizing the
    value of the services of the merchant, which I'm not sure you meant to do, but
    it sounded like it as Jan mentions, is wrong both economically and morally. The
    services are very real economically, as MyFonts in fact seems to indicate. Morally,
    the devaluing of the merchant, the seeing of the merchant's cut of the price of
    goods as an ill-gotten gain, can get very ugly. It has been used to justify riots
    and murder against minority merchants all around the world: Jews in Europe, Chinese
    in Southeast Asia, and Indians in Africa.  \r\n"
  created: '2011-11-15 16:19:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As with all things, the particulars make the difference.  The percentage
    of sale price paid to the individual type foundries with MyFonts, to date, has
    been reasonable. This is one of the reasons for the success and the feeling of
    partnership in the working arrangement.  With this fair share per sale model,
    I see no reason to divvy up any portion of the $50M sale price of MyFonts organization
    with contributing foundries.  I see it as we have been paid monthly all along
    just as promised.  \r\nIn the recent past, there have been (and may still be)
    arrangements with larger resellers where the percentage of sale price received
    by the designer foundry has been far less to the point of seeming unfair. With
    MyFonts, this has not been the case.  MyFonts makes no claim of ownership of the
    intellectual property nor does it set prices.  Further, there are no binding exclusivity
    clauses.  Those of us selling through MyFonts are not taking a risk.\r\nMy hope
    is that all of this continues. I hope that: \"When foundry contracts come up for
    renewal, we will of course revise the contracts to reflect the new ownership\"
    does not mean any changes in either policy or rates or contractual expectations.
    The Bitstream folks who sold off the MyFonts assets have every right to their
    $50 M. I certainly do not feel that I am owed any portion of it."
  created: '2011-11-15 17:01:05'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "The merchant, right. That\u2019s a simpler way of putting it.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    what may need to be clarified: while Bitstream as a foundry owns a number of original
    typefaces and their trademarks (like those designed by Carter, Unger, Dennis Pasternak,
    Holly Goldsmith), this is not the case for MyFonts. MyFonts\u2019 dowry, so to
    speak, consists of a system, a brand identity, a lot of code, the goodwill of
    customers and foundries, and a team of people \u2014 part employees, part freelancers.
    No typefaces will change hands apart from Bitstream\u2019s."
  created: '2011-11-15 17:02:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nif you look through the SEC filing documents, you\u2019ll discover
    that one of Bitstream\u2019s stockholders is an investment firm that otherwise
    invests mostly in hotels and resorts, and their website advertises mostly to senior
    U.S. citizens. I don\u2019t want to go into a detailed discussion about investment
    firms, but one simplified view of the situation can then be described like this:
    \r\n\r\nA number of U.S. senior citizens have put the money that they have saved
    over the years into an investment firm, which then bought Bitstream stock and
    provided capital to run the MyFonts operation. For the first few years, setting
    up and running MyFonts cost more money than it generated. It was those senior
    citizen\u2019s risk to put their money at our disposal (indirectly, of course,
    through the investment firm). \r\n\r\nWe could have screwed up or we could have
    done well. In that time, those investors saw little or no money coming in, but
    the employees and consultants as well as the foundries who offered their fonts
    for sale, have been constantly paid. \r\n\r\nIn other words (in a very simplified
    way), for the first few years, some U.S. senior citizens financed my living (as
    a MyFonts consultant). I contributed labor, and I have been rewarded. It has always
    been my choice or right to try negotiate my payment terms. I may or may not have
    made use of that right. But, since I did agree, it means that I did agree. I have
    been paid constantly for the last 11 years for the labor I contributed. I did
    not need to care where this money came from. \r\n\r\nThe same was truth for the
    other employees or consultants, and for the foundries. They have received their
    checks regularly. \r\n\r\nThe investors, however, put their capital on risk: they
    had a chance of \"cashing out\" or they had the possibility of losing everything.
    (Of course, they did trade the stock between themselves etc., but at every single
    moment there was a group of investors whose money was being used by Bitstream
    to operate MyFonts, and it was their money that was at risk.) \r\n\r\nAt some
    point, Monotype Imaging offered the $50M, and that money can now flow back to
    the investors. Whether it\u2019s a big cash out or just moderate, or actually
    just so-so, or perhaps it\u2019s even less that they invested \u2014 I don\u2019t
    know. And I don\u2019t care. They put their money to our disposal so we could
    work. Now they\u2019re getting some money back. I actually do hope that it\u2019ll
    be more than they invested. I hope that it\u2019ll be *significantly* more than
    if they invested into some other business. \r\n\r\nThey chose our stock. They
    didn\u2019t choose Apple\u2019s, Microsoft\u2019s, Nike\u2019s or whomever else\u2019s.
    And for that, they should be rewarded as handsomely as it is only possible. Because,
    on top of our brains and time spent, and in addition to the hard work and talent
    of the type designers whose fonts we\u2019ve been selling, we also owe our success
    to the investors, since they provided us with capital. \r\n\r\n(At any time I
    could have chosen to buy BITS stock, i.e. become part of the investors group.)\r\n\r\nTo
    me it does sound like a fair deal. The investors are getting their money, the
    foundries have been getting theirs, and I\u2019ve been getting mine. I think,
    I\u2019ll continue to be paid, as long as I contribute my labor, the foundries
    will continue to be paid as long as their existing or new fonts will be attractive
    to the buyers, and the investors will continue to have a chance to be paid as
    long as they contribute their capital. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t see anything fundamentally
    wrong with the system. There are many details that are worth working on, but I
    do believe we need all components of the system. We need labor and we need capital.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-15 17:45:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Adam, I agree with your analysis. \r\n\r\nI think the problem is that wherever
    there are large amounts of money involved, such as in banking or stocks, there
    is tremendous opportunity for corruption and exploitation. To prevent this requires
    strong government regulation, progressive taxation, and enforcement. Unfortunately
    these have failed often the past 30 years, partly due to campaigns against them
    in the name of the \"free market.\" I think this is what makes people extremely
    suspicious, even when capitalism is working well, and to the benefit of many people.
    \r\n\r\nJohn, concerning the issue of whether ethical business practices are inherently
    anti-capitalist. I interviewed the great industrialist Aaron Feuerstein, who paid
    all of his workers for a year after a factory fire, until the factories were rebuilt.
    He has been held up as the model of an ethical capitalist. He told me that you
    can combine ethics and profit, but it takes a lot of creativity and courage to
    do so. I hope he's right."
  created: '2011-11-15 18:05:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The Long Tail principle often referred to with regards to MyFonts has an
    added relevance for fonts: the length that font products remain viable commodities.
    Consider Bitstream's Font Odyssey 2, published ten years ago. Without revealing
    too many trade secrets (Shinntype participated), I can say that sales have followed
    the Long Tail curve\u2014the point being that they were not exhausted after three
    years, despite the product not being updated. \r\n\r\nSeveral Bitstream types
    (not the the originals Jan mentions!) are in the Myfonts top 20 \u2014 versions
    of Helvetica, Futura and News Gothic. Those would have been worth more to a company
    other than Monotype/Linotype."
  created: '2011-11-15 18:09:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Adam: <em>\u2026but the employees and consultants as well as the foundries
    who offered their fonts for sale, have been constantly paid.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever,
    foundries too have not immediately recouped their investment, which was in font
    development.\r\nAnd font development is a risky business, as it's quite possible
    to put a lot of time into a typeface that sells very few licences."
  created: '2011-11-15 18:15:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jan and Bill, note again that I was responding to Adam's statement that 'the
    foundries did all the hard work anyway, and truly are the ones who generated the
    value'. Now, as you and others have pointed out, this is not actually the case,
    and the MyFonts staff have also created value and, by financially facilitating
    the activity of that staff, so have the investors. They have all generated value,
    through a combination of products and services. My belief, though, is that everyone
    who contributes to the generation of value should receive a share in the profits
    of that value proportionally equal to what they contribute.\r\n\r\nI am not suggesting
    that, under the present arrangement, MyFonts should divvy up the $50 million in
    this way. I am questioning the present arrangement, which is based on a negotiated
    inequality among the creators of value. Chris and others have expressed their
    satisfaction that 'the Bitstream folks who sold off the MyFonts assets have every
    right to their $50 M', and that's an entirely legitimate view that I don't challenge,
    and I fully agree with Chris that the MyFonts contract and royalty model is much
    better than that offered by many other resellers or foundries. MyFonts has been,
    on the whole, a good thing for type. But here's an idea: when the products <em>and
    contributed marketing materials</em> of a vendor contribute substantially to the
    value of a corporate asset, wouldn't it be a good thing if the vendor contract
    made provision for dividends from the sale of that asset? This isn't even a negative
    for the corporation, since it can be used as a means to encourage vendors to continue
    to sell their products through the reseller's service, by linking the dividends
    to active contracts.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nBill, ownership <em>becomes</em> the key
    issue when ownership of the means of production by capital has such a strong tendency
    to exploitation of the non-owning worker. Sure, it isn't a philosophical issue:
    one can imagine a capitalist economy in which all the capitalists were really
    nice people who believed in a more equitable distribution of wealth and acted
    accordingly. But that isn't how they act, nor how they have acted, in any significant
    numbers, for the few hundred years in which they've been doing their thing. So
    it is a practical issue. For the past hundred years or so, unionism and sometimes
    governments have tried to ameliorate the inequality while maintaining capitalist
    ownership. The result, in case you have not noticed, is that wages, in real spending
    terms, have decreased over the past half century, the inequality has grown more
    extreme not less. The bail-out swindle by which profits are privatised while loss
    is nationalised, by which the most profitable sector on the planet holds nations
    to ransom and forces taxpayers to cover its bad gambling debts, is simply the
    latest round of what  as Warren Buffett rightly describes as a class war by the
    rich against the rest of the population. I see no evidence at all that this will
    change or improve without an increase in worker ownership.\r\n\r\nIf you visit
    cooperative, worker-owned or hybrid workplaces, you'll find that it is, in fact,
    the key issue that transforms the nature of work from one of servile indebtitude
    -- I must do this job and not rock the boat because otherwise I will be unable
    to feed my family -- to one of active agency -- I do this job because I have a
    stake in this business and am share in its success."
  created: '2011-11-15 18:37:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>...concerning the issue of whether ethical business practices are
    inherently anti-capitalist. I interviewed the great industrialist Aaron Feuerstein,
    who paid all of his workers for a year after a factory fire, until the factories
    were rebuilt. He has been held up as the model of an ethical capitalist. He told
    me that you can combine ethics and profit, but it takes a lot of creativity and
    courage to do so. I hope he's right.</em>\r\n\r\nIt also requires the will to
    do so, which is what seems to be mostly lacking. And note that I didn't say that
    ethical business practices are inherently <em>anti-</em>capitalist: I said that
    they were contrary to and, at best, orthogonal to capitalism. By this I means
    that while not incompatible with profit, they will tend to reduce profit, which
    is why creativity and courage are required."
  created: '2011-11-15 18:46:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, ownership of the means of production by the government has also proved,
    contrary to Marx, to be highly vulnerable to exploitation of workers. That's why
    focusing on ownership  misses more important factors. In studying agricultural
    transformation all around the world, throughout modern history my wife found failed
    and successful examples with government ownership and private ownership, small
    and large farms, etc. \r\n\r\nYour citing experience in the past 50 years is misleading.
    In the US, before FDR there was extreme inequality. From FDR through about Jimmy
    Carter, greater equality held. From Reagan on\u2014the past 30 years\u2014the
    inequality has increased. This is because of government policies, as Paul Krugman
    explains in his book Conscience of a Liberal. Contrary to what you say, mixed
    capitalist and government ownership economies, such as we've had in the West,
    can work without the the extreme exploitation you've pointed to. Employee ownership
    also has a mixed record, in reducing exploitation, from what I've heard. So it
    alone isn't a magic bullet. \r\n\r\nAs far as ethical practice tending to reduce
    profit, I think that's wrong as a general rule. Building relationships of trust
    among partners in an enterprise, which ethical conduct achieves, generally promotes
    profits\u2014an argument made to me by Feuerstein, and which he actually did benefit
    from monetarily, in specific ways. It is also true that being ethical can at times
    run contrary to short term profits, as Feuerstein also conceded. So ethics can
    cut both ways. The creativity is to find a path where you take advantage of the
    profit-enhancing aspects, and minimize the losses. I think that's Feuerstein's
    view, if I got him right.     "
  created: '2011-11-15 19:11:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">But \u201CTrajan\u201D is giving a good impression.\r\n\r\nFunny! But \"on
    the web\" I said.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-15 19:50:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Pardon me for the irrelevant type joke.\r\nTry this instead:\r\n\r\n<em>Nothing
    lasts forever - especially market dominance on the web.</em>\r\n\r\nTell that
    to Jeff Bezos."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Some of us enjoyed your "irrelevant type joke"  ;-)
    created: '2011-11-15 23:42:59'
  created: '2011-11-15 21:39:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>John, ownership of the means of production by the government has
    also proved, contrary to Marx, to be highly vulnerable to exploitation of workers.
    That's why focusing on ownership misses more important factors.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't follow. I never said anything about state ownership of the means of production:
    I talked about three different practical models of <em>worker</em> ownership of
    the means of production, including one that involves shared ownership with capital
    investors. The fact that both capitalist and state ownership of the means of production
    tend to exploitation of the workers suggests to me that anything other than actual
    worker ownership will tend to that exploitation. Yes, there are other factors
    that should not be overlooked -- including bureaucratization, resulting in a division
    within worker owned businesses between a management class and a labour class,
    which is a criticism that has been made of the Mondragon cooperatives by some
    commentators --, and I don't think worker ownership is a 'magic bullet'. But I
    do think there needs to be an increase in such ownership, that financial services
    should not be biased against such ownership as they are now, and that an accounting
    of value needs to include a reasonable consideration of the contribution of labour
    and corresponding reward. [Note that this is something quite different from a
    Marxian labour theory of value, which seeks to establish value by reference to
    labour; I'm talking about a multifaceted estimation that tries to account for
    the ways in which different people contribute to commercial value.]\r\n\r\n<em>Contrary
    to what you say, mixed capitalist and government ownership economies, such as
    we've had in the West, can work without the the extreme exploitation you've pointed
    to.</em>\r\n\r\nBecause thousands of men and women shed their blood to win the
    eight hour day, the weekend, collective bargaining, universal suffrage, labour
    law, and the other ameliorating checks against such exploitation. None of these
    things were handed to the workers by capitalists: it has all been fought for,
    and frequently died for. And these are precisely the hard-won checks on exploitation
    that <a href=\"http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-02/koch-brothers-flout-law-getting-richer-with-secret-iran-sales.html\">today's
    capitalists</a>, with the collusion of bought-and-paid-for governments, are systematically
    dismantling."
  created: '2011-11-15 23:02:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick\r\n\r\n>>Nothing lasts forever - especially market dominance on the
    web.\r\n\r\n>Tell that to Jeff Bezos.\r\n\r\nI <em>think</em> you're holding up
    Amazon's continued success as proof positive that the statement \"nothing lasts
    forever - especially market dominance on the web\" is wrong-headed. Or perhaps
    simply that there are exceptions.\r\n\r\nAnd so I think you're confusing cause
    and effect. It's exactly because Jeff Bezos looks at it exactly that way that
    Amazon has, so far, continued to succeed.\r\nHe already knows, I don't have to
    tell him.\r\nTheir position is extremely fragile - essentially just another vendor
    on the web. And I wouldn't be surprised if that fragility is the first thing to
    enter his mind in the morning.\r\nThey've stayed on top through a seemingly endless
    series of experiments and innovations, always running, running, running, as if
    they were being chased by something.\r\nAnd, indeed, they are.\r\nI've got more
    respect for Amazon than any other company connected with the web. Somebody or
    somebodies there are geniuses on a par with Steve Jobs.\r\n\r\nTell it to the
    former management of Sears Roebuck, maybe! Or Harold Geneen.\r\n\r\nThe web's
    only 15 years old, that's not a lot of time. Wait.\r\n\r\nEverything reaches it's
    limits.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-15 23:34:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nick\r\n\r\nBetter example than Sears: General Motors. No company fell from
    a height so great in the course of just a few decades than GM.\r\n\r\nAnd not
    so long ago, AOL WAS the web. And today, I really don't know what they are - except
    an email company."
  created: '2011-11-16 00:24:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I agree worker ownership of businesses is a good thing, but it doesn't
    solve the economic problems we face. The macro-economic policies of the government
    are critical for creating an environment that is both thriving economically and
    relatively fair. And, as my wife found, who owns what is a less important a variable
    than the macro-economic policies pursued by the government. \r\n\r\nThe exception
    is that high income inequality tends to corruption, so that government policies
    end up enriching a few instead of investing in the economic growth of the whole
    nation. If employee stock plans limit exorbitant CEO pay, particularly when the
    business does poorly, that would be great. Looking at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Employee_Share_Ownership_Plan|wikipedia
    article on employee ownership]], I don't see any information on that. \r\n\r\nI
    do think that the way our publicly own corporations are structured, with management
    having excessively short-term incentives, is a huge problem, so maybe there is
    something in worker ownership that can have a benign effect. The [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributism|distributist
    philosophy]], which I didn't know about and gather you are a fan of, seem to be
    impractical romantic schemes in their early 20th century origin of \"three acres
    and a cow\". When enterprises are big, it can be a problem for employees to be
    invested too much in their own company, because if the company goes down, so do
    their pensions. Also governance of large companies I think tends to attenuate
    the influence of workers as opposed to management. \r\n\r\nIn these matters, what
    I have learned from my wife's work is that the detailed policies often turn out
    to be more important than the form of ownership, but I'm happy to learn more.
    If you have links on the impact of employee ownership on CEO pay and corporate
    governance, I'm interested. \r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 14:29:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "So, to summarize, all you need is cash? unless you're an idealist in which
    case all you need is love? ;) Though if you're like the vast majority of us, you
    need some combination of the two... to carry on. \r\n\r\nI can't speak for every
    one in all my privately held companies, but I also noticed in my recollections,
    that Bitstream <em>owned nothing</em> but the software they made, the whole time
    I worked there. Everything else was begged, borrowed bartered or stolen... so
    to speak. 30 years of that! breeds a special kind of survival instinct, I'd guess.\r\n\r\nToday,
    all my co-owners own their own means, from their land and home, to their hardware,
    firmware and software, and further on to the software they make. This allows them
    be firmly in control of managing the balance of love n' cash, and... to carry
    on, I'd guess again.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 14:46:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you need some combination of the two... to carry on.\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 16:30:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think you're holding up Amazon's continued success as proof positive
    that the statement \"nothing lasts forever - especially market dominance on the
    web\" is wrong-headed. Or perhaps simply that there are exceptions.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    internet companies more short-lived than widget manufacturers?\r\nThe dotcom crash
    was a watershed.\r\nAt any rate, MyFonts has proved more durable than MySpace,
    and unless Monotype f*cks up bigtime, I expect it to continue to dominate for
    many years.\r\nIn general, I'm wary of comparisons between the font industry and
    other business sectors.\r\nWe're so very special, huff puff."
  created: '2011-11-16 19:13:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">wary of comparisons\r\n\r\nAt the Museum of Printing, when Larry Oppenberg
    showed me around I commented on the amazing dynamism and turbulence in the printing
    industry, with revolutions in technology coming it seems every 20 years, for two
    hundred years, making a lot of the earlier machinery, and in come cases jobs,
    obsolete. He said yes, and the ironic thing is that for much of what were big
    industrial companies, like Merganthaler Linotype, who regarded type as a small
    part of their business, what still survive are\u2014the types. From Jenson on,
    the machinery is gone, and the type survives.   "
  created: '2011-11-16 19:29:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Bill\r\nThe type or the digital renderings of the images of the type?"
  created: '2011-11-16 21:07:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Larry was no doubt referring to the designs, as the technology of getting
    them to the page and now screen has kept changing: from hand punch-cut foundry
    metal, to hot metal (lino and mono type) and pantographic punch cut, to film type
    to digital type. These changes all involve some redesign and reinterpretation.
    But as Matthew Carter puts it these are new performances of old scores: Garamond,
    Bodoni, etc. So they live just as Beethoven and Mozart scores do...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-16 21:31:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My point, Bill, is that what remains viable is the \"Design\", not the form
    of delivery or use.\r\nI might add that Mozart sounds way better on a Klavier
    or Pianoforte than it does on a MIDI.  Type is a whole nother thang, though. Type
    depends on the quality of rendering of whatever device used--a letterpress or
    an iPad.  The \"design\" of the font is pretty much the same but the quality of
    presentation makes a huge difference.  Which sucks worse, piss-poor pixel rendering
    or badly battered lead type bashed into crap paper and over inked?\r\nThe human
    act of performance of music with emotion and feeling is lost in a MIDI.  I will
    take my 1956  Rubinstein recording of Chopin Etudes over any MIDI (or Yanni) playing
    of the same. ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-16 22:07:13'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: To continue the music analogy, just as some musical pieces translate better
    into new styles of playing (Bach, for example, sounds great whether played by
    period ensemble, contemporary orchestra, 70s synthesizers or even heavy metal
    guitar) than others, the same is true with type designs. Some designs work well
    in just about any sort of printing technology ever invented, while others are
    tied so closely to the technologies of their given era that they just plain don't
    work right anywhere else.
  created: '2011-11-17 23:40:46'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: AFAICR, the MIDI standard does allow for various expressions. The NoteOn message,
    f.ex., is followed by a seven-bit code, 'velocity', which tells how hard the note
    was hit or how loud it's supposed to be. Can't remember atm if it's midi.org or
    midi.com for the MIDI Consortium.
  created: '2011-11-17 23:48:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Listening to a MIDI play music compared to listening to a good musician is
    like comparing an inflatable women doll to a real human version--it looks like
    a duck but you don't give a ...
  created: '2011-11-18 01:32:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Only on Typophile :) '
  created: '2011-11-18 01:34:02'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@dez - Oh, I've pottered around with MIDI files enough to know that already.
    Remains, though, that they are canned expressions, not recordings. If you have
    a variety of synths or soundfonts, it is even possible to pick the instrument
    you think responds best to a particular expression. Heh, I've done that a few
    times with the software synth TiMidity &ndash; written scripts and config files
    to temporarily revoice existing MIDI files. That's the part I like about MIDI
    files: I'm not just a mindless consumer.\r\n\r\n@WB - The place does have a <em>life,</em>
    after all."
  created: '2011-11-18 19:13:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@T\xE9,\r\n\r\nMy wife is a fine musician and has other musicians around
    daily.  The big difference is that you may be able to get a technical device to
    mimic a particular performance with some degree of accuracy.  You cannot get that
    system to create a worthwhile performance of its own except by chance.  Then comes
    ensemble performance where musicians respond to each other and make something
    spectacular happen as a result.  "
  created: '2011-11-18 20:17:26'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "All of your points are known to me despite me not being a musician, but when
    one's far away from live performances, the canned stuff, including MIDI performances,
    will have to do.\r\n\r\nAll permitting, I'll be at a live do in about a month.
    I look forward to it, even though I'll be audience and nothing but. With the MIDI
    stuff I can at least pretend I'm a part of the performing group. Not that I expect
    anyone to understand that."
  created: '2011-11-18 21:57:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "It seems they\u2019re now investing in webfont deployment:\r\nhttp://typecast.com/blog/typecast-joins-monotype\r\nhttp://typecast.com/monotype-acquires-design-by-front"
  created: '2012-10-30 18:16:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I had bookmarked Typecast to check it out for real, but hoping for a shortcut:
    how does it work, exactly? There seems to be way too much fluff to wade through
    on their site to get to the nitty-gritty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-10-30 18:44:18'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I don't know how it works, but Typecast\u2019s webfont utilization is a littl
    spotty on my machine: the linked page recomposed before my eyes as it loaded\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-30 23:02:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I think it's their Javascript.\r\n\r\nEdit #1: I looked with two browsers:
    Firefox 16 and K-Meleon 1.6 (based on Firefox 3.5 or so). FF16 did not show any
    page flicker. K-Meleon did. IIRC, its Javascript engine is a lot slower than FF16's."
  created: '2012-10-31 14:03:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "And now, what? \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/117974\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/117976"
  created: '2014-07-15 21:52:11'
date: '2010-12-08 13:50:11'
node_type: forum
title: Mono(poly)type

---
