---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "I was searching Adobe documentation to see if anything important's been updated
  since... 1996 and I became so put-off by the composition of the PDF describing the
  Type 1 format..\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/conciseness_5052.png]\r\n\r\n...I
  had to stop.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know, does CFF still require that \"sub-paths\"
  do not overlap, (just like the faces of hot metal faces), and does CFF still demand
  a 1,000 unit em?"
comments:
- author:
    name: frankrolf
    picture: 116253
  body: "Maybe the PDF has been shaken a lot during the 16 years of its existence
    \u2026 \r\n\r\nThese threads might help on your UPM question:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30727\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/30913\r\n\r\nOverlaps
    must still be removed in the font, unfortunately.\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-10 15:39:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks for your response Frankrolf.\r\nWhy is it  unfortunate that overlaps
    must be removed?"
  created: '2010-12-10 19:45:35'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: I'm trying to find an old thread here that shows why. Can't even remember
    who showed this- but someone was making the joins of the glyphs (the example was
    an 'M') so that they overlapped in such a way as to make it easy to adjust the
    thickness of the strokes, without affecting the joining stroke. I know that what
    I just said is confusing. If anyone remembers what thread I am talking about...
    I'd want to re-read it myself.
  created: '2010-12-10 20:57:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">to make it easy to adjust the thickness of the strokes, without affecting
    the joining stroke\r\n\r\nWell it is easier to design with overlapping contours
    for sure! But I was looking at the international and other critical issues of
    overlaps in manufactured fonts. Sounds like I'll have to blog this one. Take cover.
    ;)"
  created: '2010-12-13 13:28:37'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "Still can't find the thread, but the idea was something like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OverlapExample23_6520.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-13 16:34:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've always understood two reasons for avoiding overlapping contours, both
    of which are to a certain extent historical, i.e. they used to be more critical
    than they are now.\r\n\r\n1. Some renderers and RIPs get confused and paint overlapping
    segments the wrong colour. This issue seems mostly (completely?) to have been
    resolved.\r\n\r\n2. Software does not remove overlaps when converting text to
    curves or when applying an outline stroke, as in BeauW's illustration. This depends
    on the sophistication of the software."
  created: '2010-12-13 23:47:50'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: 3. Cutting letters in self adhesive PVC foil. (especially overlapped ogoneks...
    also depends on the software)
  created: '2010-12-14 19:21:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This depends on the sophistication of the software.\r\n\r\nOnly needs to
    be sophisticated enough to know how to use the core OS graphics."
  created: '2010-12-14 19:22:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: The other quest I'm dumbfounded on right now, and find no documentation of,
    is that the "C" in CFF stands for compressed. So a CFF comes to the altar to become
    a WOFF, does it get compresed again? and whether it does or not, what software
    decompresses the CFF after it leaves the WOFF? Tanks for your thoughts on this
    crucial issue.
  created: '2011-01-19 19:21:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The C in CFF does not stand for compressed. Never has. CFF = Compact Font
    Format, and the compactness is provided by the type 2 charstring, i.e. it is an
    optimisation in the PS code not a form of compression.\r\n\r\nCompact Font Format
    documentation:\r\nhttp://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/font/5176.CFF.pdf\r\n\r\nType
    2 Charstring documentation:\r\nhttp://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/en/font/5177.Type2.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\nYes,
    a WOFF'd CFF font will be compressed, but relatively less so than TTF."
  created: '2011-01-19 20:49:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: And does the decompaction use the subroutined parts to rasterize parts that
    are merged or does the outline get decompacted and reassembled and then the total
    glyph is rasterized?
  created: '2011-01-20 03:38:06'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Also, I recall that the font renderer of older versions Mac OS X used to
    draw and antialias each path or component separately. Therefore, if they overlap,
    you could see a \"ghost\" white outline around the overlaps. This no longer happens
    these days with Mac OS X, but there may be other rasterizers that behave that
    way. \r\n\r\nThe subroutine mechanism in the \"CFF \" table also contributes to
    its compactness. In fact, the subroutine mechanism *is* a compression mechanism,
    so the difference between an unsubroutinized and a subroutinized CFF-based font
    is that the latter is compressed. \r\n\r\nThe composite glyph mechanism in the
    \"glyf\" table also is a form of compression. However, the principal difference
    between the composites in \"glyf\" and the subroutines in \"CFF \" is that the
    CFF subroutines can be just parts of a path, not necessarily entire closed paths.
    \r\n\r\nDue to this fact, in the CFF rasterization process, the glyph outline
    is first assembled from the subroutines and then rasterized. "
  created: '2011-01-21 17:48:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Type 2 charstrings do not need to be 'decompacted'. They are more compact
    expression of the same data that used to be expressed using type 1 charstrings,
    and are directly interpreted by PS rasterisers. It isn't a compression mechanism;
    it's a code optimisation.\r\n\r\nSubroutinisation -- great word -- is optional
    in CFF, and represents a secondary method of reducing CFF table size. This is
    more like compression, and as Adam notes, the glyph outline is assembled from
    the subroutines, if present, and then rasterised."
  created: '2011-01-21 18:41:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam, how could subroutinized parts made in the compaction of s CFF overlap?
    Are they not sub contours  between two on-curve points?\r\n\r\n>It isn't a compression
    mechanism; it's a code optimisation.\r\n\r\nIs the code optimized for some reason
    other that smallening the file size? And is this the primary compaction to subroutining's
    secondary compaction?\r\n\r\nAre the subroutined parts stored separately, just
    like components, or are the master parts identified in a particular glyph and
    then employed by other glyphs?\r\n\r\nI can kind of see from this why adobe hints
    can't get much smarter, and never did.\r\n\r\nI guess the next avenue of inquiry
    is that folk from Warnok to the present, as we hear, have claimed the separation
    of hint and rasterizer is an advantage that allows the improvement of the rasterizer
    without changing the installed base of fonts. Assuming that means the installed
    base of well hinted fonts, and that web font quality seems like a fairly good
    reason to change the rasterizer, how come it still doesn't provide good enough
    web font appearance. i.e. the rasterizer is not changing to take advantage of
    the claimed advantage, in the face of great need?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 11:35:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nSubroutines are indeed always curve parts between two on-curve
    points. It has no relation to overlaps. You draw a \"flat\" outline, and the rasterizer
    gets a \"flat\" outline. What happens in between is compression and decompression,
    and the compressed form has no relation to overlaps. If you have overlaps in the
    \"flat\" outline before compression, then the rasterizer will get overlaps in
    the decompressed (\"flat\") outline. How the rasterizers (Adobe\u2019s, FreeType
    etc.) will interpret the overlaps is their thing. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, Adobe\u2019s
    webfonts that are being served at TypeKit are TrueType-based. The reasons for
    this are two: \r\n1. Microsoft Internet Explorer 8 and lower only accept webfonts
    as EOT, and only with TrueType outlines\r\n2. The Microsoft Windows GDI rasterizer
    (used by Opera, Chrome, Firefox except 4.0 on Windows 7) renders PostScript-flavored
    OpenType fonts (be it in plain OTF or in WOFF wrapper) in a rather unfavorable
    way (with very strong grayscale antialiasing which makes them look extremely pale)\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    only the DirectWrite rasterizer (used in Firefox 4 and IE 9 on Windows Vista and
    7) which will render PostScript-flavored fonts in a similar way as the DirectWrite
    ClearType rendering of TrueType-flavored fonts. But please note that AFAIK, Microsoft
    has no plans to deploy DirectWrite to Windows XP, so on Windows XP, users will
    always be stuck with the \"old\" rendering of PostScript-flavored outlines, which,
    well, doesn't look very good.  \r\n\r\nFor that reason, Adobe decided to convert
    all their fonts to TrueType outlines, and autohint them (with some manual hinting)
    when they published their webfonts on TypeKit. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 11:50:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam, I'm well aware that Adobe\u2019s web fonts being served at TypeKit
    are TrueType. Their release was soon followed by a blog praising the virtues of
    CFF over TT.\r\n\r\nAdam, I'm also aware that the next DirectWrite rasterizer
    will render correctly hinted PostScript-flavored fonts in a similar way as correctly
    hinted TT fonts, which is what I think you mean to say above?\r\n\r\nThe issue
    is, that\_MS and Adobe are finally reacting to the supposed weakness of TT hinting
    instead of reacting to the superiority of a rasterizer needing no hints at all,
    like Quartz.\r\n\r\nMr. Hudson yonder, and others like him, are fond of touting
    the competition in rasterizers and how much more important that is that any sort
    of output compliance one can imagine.\r\n\r\nBut really, what advantage is gained
    unless confusion is the goal? I mean, presumably after this improved rasterizer
    is released, then what? Release all the Adobe fonts again in CFF?!\r\n\r\nAs a
    font developer, am I going to go back and rerelease my fonts in CFF? Doubtful.
    Am I going to release new fonts in two formats? Not likely because it'll be years
    before a font stack requires CFF, or brings any advantage to the user, if ever...\r\n\r\nI
    mean hints is hints. The same few hints are required for both TT and CFF. I can't
    tell you how important it is to get them right once, put the font into the market,
    and be done, in ttf.\r\n\r\nI have, in 20 years of making both formats, never
    gotten the feeling I could be assured of getting past the voodoo of type1 hints
    for any and all designs at any and all sizes. So, Ttf is the only sure path.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this despite the fact that (ahem) tool makers have ignored good technical practice,
    not to mention my repeated advice and all but forced unknowing font developers
    to work backwards, with lossy conversion from T1 to TT both hints and contours.\r\n\r\nThis
    year, the web font sh!t hit the w3c fan, and what's been done? A wrapper, a parallel
    quality rasterizer, enough font freedom to ignore 90% of what is offered for the
    web, and negative education, like 50% of the blogs I read.\r\n\r\nApparently though,
    no amount of confusion is enough to slow down web fonts done the right way.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 20:13:51'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>As a font developer, am I going to go back and rerelease my fonts in
    CFF? Doubtful. Am I going to release new fonts in two formats? Not likely</em>...\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    both of those decisions are bad ones. I have been conducting some impromptu market
    research in advance of packaging my entire library as a whole and in thematic/historical
    parts, and I have found that there is a lot of lingering mistrust of TrueType
    due to the serious badmouthing it received (primarily from whom will not be mentioned)
    after the format was introduced. A number of Mac users were even amazed--and changed
    their tunes--after learning that the TTF format was developed jointly by Apple
    and Microsoft.\r\n\r\nCFF and TTF are here to stay--for the foreseeable future--and
    not offering your customers both only leaves money on the table that you might
    otherwise claim. Over the course of the last several months, I have reworked my
    entire library--over 560 fonts--and generated them as CFF and TTF. The exercise
    has afforded me the opportunity of correcting some unintended errors and misguided
    choices, and generally to tune up the whole kit and kaboodle. It's worth the effort...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 20:28:41'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u2026I have found that there is a lot of lingering mistrust of TrueType
    due to the serious badmouthing it received\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nLikewise there
    are plenty of Windows users who believe that OpenType is a a proprietary Maconly
    format. Usually because Opentype fonts don\u2019t work with their cut-rate software
    that only supports TrueType fonts."
  created: '2011-01-22 20:57:59'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Likewise there are plenty of Windows users who believe that OpenType
    is a a proprietary Maconly format. Usually because Opentype fonts don\u2019t work
    with their cut-rate software that only supports TrueType fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    odd, because I was under the impression--perhaps mistaken--that the OS did the
    basic font handling and Windows, since Win2000/NT4 has had native PostScript support
    built-in. Even my trusty old CorelDraw 9 (copyright 1999) works with OpenType
    fonts: although it can't access OpenType features, it sees them and renders them
    as PS Type 1, no problem."
  created: '2011-01-22 21:24:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Mr. Hudson yonder, and others like him, are fond of touting the
    competition in rasterizers and how much more important that is that any sort of
    output compliance one can imagine.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think I've ever said anything
    to suggest that <em>I</em> think the total free-for-all of type rendering competition
    and resulting lack of compatibility and predictability is a good thing. What I
    have pointed out -- and what surely doesn't need to be pointed out; you cite Warnock,
    you've read the blogs -- is that the companies consider rendering technologies
    to be an area of competition. And so long as they continue to do so, you're not
    going to get them to sign up to standardisation."
  created: '2011-01-24 23:58:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Is the code optimized for some reason other that smallening the
    file size?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know. You'd have to ask PS RIP engineers. Possibly
    there are also speed benefits to the type 2 charstring?"
  created: '2011-01-25 00:00:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> I think the total free-for-all of type rendering competition and resulting
    lack of compatibility and predictability is a good thing.\r\n\r\nWell we just
    disagree then. :) (how's that for FOX-like editing?)"
  created: '2011-01-25 10:02:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I also do think the competition is a good thing, in particular because of
    the rapid development of display technologies. CRT, e-paper, all kinds of flat
    panels \u2014 they all produce different results, and the varying ppi densities
    contribute to it as well. I think it makes perfect sense that device manufacturers
    such as Apple fine-tune their rasterization filtering depending on the device,
    and the device generation. \r\n\r\nFor example, a \"slavish\" following of the
    original TrueType rasterization model on something like iPhone 4 would be ridiculous.
    This does not mean that those vendors always get it right: in my opinion, Verdana
    or Arial were rendered better on iPhone 3G than it is being done on iPhone 4,
    because on the new \"retina\" display, the type is rendered too thin. I'd like
    the ability to add some weight (or virtual ink spread) to type on my iPhone 4.
    In fact, as a user, *I* do want the ability to customize the rendering of type
    on my machine, or portable devices. On Windows, I used to make customized versions
    of systems fonts for my own use, where I fiddled with the \"gasp\" table or even
    rehinted the whole thing, but it was a laborious process. The ClearType tuner
    on Windows was a step in the right direction. Safari on Windows has a wonderful
    font appearance tuner which toggles between Windows default rendering (which can
    be ClearType or plain-aa, depending on your system setting), and Mac-like rendering
    in five or so different modes. \r\n\r\nI'd actually even like this type of control
    to be added to CSS so authors can add or remove a bit of weight when rendering
    a certain font \u2014 depending on which color the foreground and background has,
    the basic font sizes etc. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-25 10:35:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "...what you're saying Adam, is that you like the selections made by Apple
    and Microsoft for their respective DESKTOPs. Good or you! Me too! But wAKe up!
    This is not an area of competition and thoroughly different from what's best for
    their BROWSER users, with browsers being a window to a world of possible visual
    experiences beyond the desktop...  what I say, now for 7 years, is if non-competitive
    solutions are enforced in users BROWSERs, it is constraining the competition in
    hinting and that follows from there. One can hint only to prevent visual disaster,
    not to compete on real readability, and one can only draw and hint from scratch
    to actually solve the problem of the non-competition you and Hudson think of,
    and parrot onward, as 'competition'.\r\n\r\nHow y'all became 'invited experts'
    on anything other than surrendering is a mystery to me. ;)"
  created: '2011-01-25 12:16:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "[Personal rant]\r\n\r\n1. I don't think I've ever been an invited expert
    to anything. Maybe one time in 2001, but that's really ancient history. I was
    almost still a student then, and had, well, lots of spare time on my hands. \r\n\r\n2.
    Come on, David. As far as I remember our discussion about EPAR in Dublin: you've
    been trying hard to make me surrender to your narrative, and I don't think I was
    *that* an easy \"opponent\". You should know me well enough to know that I'm not
    an ideological drone. (Neither is John.) \r\n\r\n3. I fondly remember your lecture
    at Typo Berlin, was it two or three years ago, when you came up with a great sentence
    \"The only difference between a Microsoft readability study and a bucket of shit
    is the bucket\". While I did enjoy it a lot, I also realized that this certainly
    is a very straightforward way (for you) *not* to become an \"invited expert\"
    on anything. \r\n\r\nYou know that I admire your work, and I truly enjoy your
    ground-shaking perspective. I'm not afraid to be proven wrong *because* I'm not
    ideological (or at least I like to think that I am not). \r\n\r\nYou, me, John
    \u2014 I don't think our goals are so dissimilar. Yet each of us has a difference
    in style. You're an expert of telling other people what they don't want to hear.
    Some can take it, others cannot. I like to think of myself of trying to become
    an expert of *pretending* to tell other people what they *want* to hear, while
    in reality, I'm telling them what *I* want them to hear. I'm trying to walk a
    tightrope between becoming Moli\xE8re's \"Misanthrope\" and, well, *getting results*.
    \r\n\r\nI would never come close of accusing you of any ill will \u2014 on the
    contrary, I think what you're doing is driven by lots of good will and idealism.
    So I don't mind a healthy punch from your side. But I'm an idealist as well. \r\n\r\nI'm
    different than you. But I'm on your side. I'm an ally. Keep that in mind :) \r\n\r\n[End
    of personal rant]\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-25 13:01:28'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> if non-competitive solutions are enforced in users BROWSERs\r\n\r\nThat's
    simply not true. Right now, on one and the same machine, using Windows 7, I can
    have Chrome running pure black-and-white, Opera running GDI ClearType, Firefox
    4 and IE 9 running DirectWrite ClearType, Safari running Mac OS X-style rendering,
    a forked WebKit using FreeType and an Adobe-AIR-based browser running Flash-style
    rendering. \r\n\r\nAll on one and the same desktop, simultaneously. \r\n\r\nWebKit,
    Chromium and Mozilla are all opensource. FreeType is opensource. Get some developers
    to your island, brainwash them, make them fork the projects, add Berlowesque mode
    to FreeType, and there you go. Seriously. It's actually not that expensive. Making
    Firefox compile with FreeType as the font renderer on Windows or Mac is actually
    flipping one switch. \r\n\r\n*Unlike* in the desktop days, *now* is the time when
    a user (or a developer) can build their own browser, which will be 100% compatible
    with all the standards, but will render fonts *exactly* as *you* want it to render.
    What's bloody non-competitive about that!? \r\n\r\nIn the old times, the Apple
    & Microsoft \"pure\" TT and Adobe's closed-source Type 1 rasterization -- *that*
    was non-competitive. \r\n\r\nBut maybe you have a different opinion on that because,
    ahem, back then you *used to be* the \"invited expert\", huh? (Sorry.)\r\n\r\nThe
    people behind font renderers are not some evil mafia. They just happen to be where
    they are, and do what they do, probably as well as they can. Pretty much all of
    Firefox's text rendering is de facto in hands of four people: Werner Lemberg (the
    maintainer of FreeType), Behdad Esfabod (the maintainer of HarfBuzz), Jonathan
    Kew & John Daggett (who are at Mozilla). \r\n\r\nThey'll probably all meet this
    year at the LGM in May in Montreal: \r\nhttp://libregraphicsmeeting.org/2011/\r\n\r\nGo
    there, and show them how this should be done. And perhaps they'll do it. Chances
    are they will. The Berlowesque code will be there, and it'll be only a matter
    of flipping a switch. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-25 13:19:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">All on one and the same desktop, simultaneously. \r\n\r\nYou don't get it.
    No hard feelings, and good luck. \r\n\r\n>back then you *used to be* the \"invited
    expert\", huh? (Sorry.)\r\n\r\nYou're confused, I was hired. When I'm on stage,
    where I never accept money, I'm invited. "
  created: '2011-01-25 13:58:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Good. :) \r\n\r\nStill, I don't think your depiction of \"non-competitive
    solutions are enforced in users BROWSERs\" is accurate. The browser is currently
    more in the user's control than any other major piece of software before. Hell,
    even I wrote myself a simple Google Chrome extension to have basic control over
    the rendering: https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/ifijlgjpdgojmjphpleniimbgbkbpedo?hl=en\r\n\r\nAnd
    seriously, I'm not much of a programmer, especially when it comes to JavaScript.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-25 14:35:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Rendering raises reactions regularly.
  created: '2011-01-25 16:12:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam> Still, I don't think...\r\n\r\nHas it passed? Read the thread about
    the guy who just wants to find out if CT is on and change it to Std rendering.
    \r\n\r\nAdam> ...your depiction of \"non-competitive solutions are enforced in
    users BROWSERs\" is accurate. \r\n\r\nREaaaaalllllly!? because you can have 5
    browser choices? do you choose the browser that's best for each site? Who pays
    for this kind of user's time?\r\n\r\nAdam>The browser is currently more in the
    user's control than any other major piece of software before.\r\n\r\nHave you
    not used indesign then to compose type? I'd rate control of type in indesign as
    a 10, in any one browser you can name as a 3, and in any five browsers, (the real
    thinker's deal), as a 1. \r\n\r\ndez>Rendering raises reactions regularly.\r\n\r\nCompetition
    confounds conspicuous coagulators\r\n\r\nAnyone here who wants competition in
    leading? How about style selection? anyone want competition in any browser's interpretation
    of any basic font properties?\r\n\r\nYou'll notice perhaps, over the past year
    that browsers have \u201Ccome together\u201D to render ttfs like the native browsers
    of each platform. The Mac browsers all render pretty much like safari, the windows
    browsers render pretty much like IE. \r\n\r\nTo keep in the weft, let's hope CFF
    has a smooth @ff rendering launch. \r\n"
  created: '2011-01-26 15:26:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> You'll notice perhaps, over the past year that browsers have \r\n> \u201Ccome
    together\u201D to render ttfs like the native browsers of \r\n> each platform.
    The Mac browsers all render pretty much like \r\n> safari, the windows browsers
    render pretty much like IE. \r\n\r\nBut this is an intermediate point in time.
    The browsers are growing from being \"just one application among so many\" on
    a desktop towards being \"a really really important application\". But Chrome
    OS shows that the browser may become \"the desktop\" (Microsoft tried that years
    ago with Active Desktop, but that was too early). \r\n\r\nApplications that run
    in the browser already give the user more control over the UI than desktop apps.
    For example when working on something like Google Docs, you can ZOOM in an out
    the entire UI (not just the edited text but also all the controls) \u2014 which
    you cannot do in Word. With things like popup or ad blockers you can modify your
    user experience in a web app by YOUR decision as a user (desktop apps only allow
    you to customize the user experience if the app developer decided that you can
    do it). Etc. \r\n\r\nIn my view (but of course I may be wrong, we're predicting
    future here), browsers will give more control to the user rather than less. I
    mean, it's already possible. I can inject my own client-side JavaScript and CSS
    to any app. This website http://userscripts.org/tags/flickr shows you how HUNDREDS
    of user-side tweaks exist that modify the user experience of Flickr. Those tweaks
    can add new buttons in place that Flickr doesn't offer, change the behavior of
    Flickr's UI elements etc. Same applies for Facebook: http://userscripts.org/tags/facebook
    . There are TONS of alternative user experience packages for Wikipedia, including
    some that \"convert\" Wikipedia pages on the fly into multicolumn full-justified
    \"newspaper\" with automatic hyphenation. \r\n\r\nOr have a look at http://fontfonter.com/
    \u2014 I want the NY Times website set in FF Meta and and FF Meta Serif? There
    you go. What's non-competitive about that? \r\n\r\nOf course the general public
    doesn't bother with it now, but they can. Or intermediate providers can. (So they
    can compete with the original makers for \"creating the best user experience\"
    for Facebook, Flickr, Wikipedia, NY Times etc. etc.)\r\n\r\nThis is all possible
    because the web is driven on open protocols. \r\n\r\n> because you can have 5
    browser choices?\r\n\r\nNo, the choice of browsers is actually open-ended. I can
    fork, patch and build my own version of WebKit or Firefox if I so choose, that
    will do whatever I want. (Agreed, not EVERYBODY can do it, but intermediate providers
    can.)\r\n\r\nI'm not saying everything is \"much better\" than it used to be,
    but I definitely don't agree with you that it's supposedly \"worse\". It _is_
    better. \r\n\r\nAgain: if I want some feature in Google Docs or Facebook or whatever,
    at least to a large extent I can ADD IT MYSELF. Rather than waiting for the vendor
    of the site to do it. (Userscripts on Flickr prove how powerful this is). \r\n\r\nThis
    does not yet obviously apply to font rendering, but we'll get there. "
  created: '2011-01-26 16:04:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Competition confounds conspicuous coagulators\"\r\n\r\nTruer tales told
    too tumultuously to tender tabulation  twixt typed text and tyranny today ;-)"
  created: '2011-01-26 17:36:02'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Durn designers discombobulate...
  created: '2011-01-26 21:23:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This does not yet obviously apply to font rendering, but we'll get there.\r\n\r\nNo....
    It doesn't. It does however illustrate one of the two main strategies for dealing
    with an inability to envision in the face of an ability to envision. You can blather
    on endlessly off the topic and then claim you don't understand what i'm talking
    about, or you can pick an argument, make sure it escalates to bad words, and then
    claim unworkable differences. Both have their advantages and have been employed
    vs me in the last year or two. Either strategy leaves a group of non-visioning,
    but agreeable dummies in place. :)"
  created: '2011-01-27 13:13:25'
date: '2010-12-10 13:58:11'
node_type: forum
title: CFF format

---
