---
author:
  name: lex
  picture: 110355
body: "Who has any experience editing/designing with \"Glyphs' (http://schriftgestaltung.de/)
  - in other words, how would someone compare Glyphs vs. FontLab in terms of features
  and usability.\r\n\r\nI think the most important question is if it is possible to
  create a complete font in \"Glyphs\" e.g. after having all the single shapes prepared
  in Illustrator...?\r\n\r\nMany Thanks - Alex"
comments:
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Glyphs has a very handy 'smooth corners' function which I use occasionaly,
    but it's still in development I believe, so for now. I'd go for Fontlab if I were
    you.
  created: '2010-12-22 15:30:32'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Glyphs is a decent entry-level font design tool. It\u2019s a terribly inefficient
    program because it crams too many ideas into one tabbed window, which leads to
    lots of annoying tab switching and zooming. But from a new user\u2019s perspective
    that eliminates much of Fontlab\u2019s harsh learning curve, so that\u2019s probably
    a net gain."
  created: '2010-12-22 16:19:33'
- author:
    name: Synthview
    picture: 121472
  body: "Hello everybody :)\r\n\r\nI\u2019m intensively testing Glyphs since, more
    or less, May 2010 and honestly I like it very much. Of course is a 0.X beta; some
    functionalities aren\u2019t ready yet and there are some little bugs (but Font
    Lab has bugs too and it\u2019s not free).\r\nI\u2019m designing and developing
    2 font faces with Glyphs and I can definitely say that Yes, you can create a complete
    font, or you\u2019ll be able to do very soon (for instance, I\u2019m waiting to
    some advanced OT implementations to be ready).\r\n\r\nAbout the UI, I\u2019m sorry
    to say I\u2019ve never seen an uglier interface than FontLab (!)\r\n\r\nI find
    Glyphs\u2019 UI much easier, friendlier and visually pleasant. \r\n\r\nWorking
    with nodes is lovely (quite similar to FL but a bit nicer).\r\n\r\nPersonally
    I prefer to have my App in one window only especially as I can edit my glyph into
    an inline text (great feature!). \r\n\r\nGlyphs automatizes many tasks you have
    to do manually in Font Lab; it does the stupid job leaving me thinking about design.\r\nIn
    particular:\r\n1. it auto generates standard OT features \r\n2. it auto generates
    all derivative glyphs combining components (accented letters etc.)\r\n3. you can
    easily set kerning classes and dynamic side-bearings (that means to give your
    glyph the value of another and make them change together) all inside your editing
    window.\r\n4. you can keep only one production file with open paths; Glyphs merges
    them automatically while exporting\r\n5. Glyphs interpolation feature seems good
    (I\u2019ve tried it on sans-serif only for now)\r\n6. for now glyphs is free,
    as FontLab isn\u2019t\r\n\r\nGlyphs drawbacks\r\n1. You can\u2019t export in TTF
    nor PS (personally I don\u2019t care, but maybe someone would like it)\r\n2. Kerning
    management on the entire-font or multi-layered-font scale could be easier\r\n3.
    for the moment you can import .otf files but without reading OT features (It seems
    it should be implemented in next releases).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-22 17:27:07'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "You've got nothing to lose by trying out the beta of Glyphs while it's free.
    (It will be a paid app once finished, though the developer hasn't yet hinted at
    the price.) You can copy and paste outlines from Illustrator, though just as with
    FontLab they need to be properly scaled first. While Glyphs can't match the extensive
    functionality of FontLab, it's got the basic tools and offers some unique features
    and clever ideas, all within a comparatively elegant UI. I can't think of any
    reason it couldn't be used to develop a complete font, but keep in mind it's beta
    software, so save frequently.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-23 00:56:34'
- author:
    name: lex
    picture: 110355
  body: "Thank you for all the valuable replies!\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-26 09:46:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "What I can add to that is that Georg Seifert, the developer of Glyphs, joined
    the FontLab team a couple of months ago. We've been working with him on our new
    applications ever since, and it's a very promising collaboration. \r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd. \r\n"
  created: '2010-12-30 19:03:34'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "I\u2019m the developer of Glyphs. I posted some notes about my status with
    FontLab on my page [[http://schriftgestaltung.de/news.html|schriftgestaltung.de/news.html]].\r\n\r\nGeorg
    Seifert"
  created: '2011-01-28 11:41:28'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Is Georg still at FontLab?
  created: '2011-06-10 19:23:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Is Georg still at FontLab?\r\n\r\nSure he is :) Actually, the interesting
    stuff he's doing for us is just only starting. "
  created: '2011-06-11 13:17:50'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: I personally liked the functions for accents in Glyphs, which uses anchors.
  created: '2011-06-23 18:41:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Risdon
    picture: 110811
  body: So I haven't been on the forum in a long while. I was curious, is Georg at
    Fontlab now? And if so what does that mean for future support/development of Glyphs?
    The link to Georg's blog post no longer works.
  created: '2011-07-29 17:58:46'
- author:
    name: colon
    picture: 123393
  body: Yeah, is Glyphs of today all we will see of it or will there be future releases?
    Let us know.
  created: '2011-09-17 22:01:41'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: Glyphs appears to be under active development. Version 1.1 was released a
    couple of days ago.
  created: '2011-09-17 23:43:28'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "To make it clear:\r\nI\u2019m working for FontLab as a consultant on interface
    and software design. This is part time and does not effect my work on Glyphs.
    I work on it most of my time and improve and expand functionality.\r\n\r\nGeorg"
  created: '2011-09-19 09:49:00'
- author:
    name: TipoTipos
    picture: 122175
  body: I've read the Appstore and website info, played a little with the beta version
    and one thing I haven't understood is where exactly is Glyphs aiming as a development
    effort. In the long run, is it intended to be a basic font editor (sort of like
    Type Tool), a more full-fledged font production application (sort of like Fontlab)
    or something else entirely?
  created: '2011-09-19 22:14:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I like it. I work with several other UFO-based tools, so it's easy to add
    Glyphs to my workflow. I have not been using it long, but here are some of the
    things I like about it so far:\r\n\r\n- Simple, clean interface that lets me focus
    on what I'm doing.\r\n- Automatic anchor placement and accented glyph generation
    (this is one of the big things I've been using it for).\r\n- Ability to edit font
    data pretty much wherever it appears (e.g., the glyph names and unicode values
    in the font window).\r\n- The extensive list of \"smart\" groups in the left column
    of the main window, with the ability to add your own. (Robofont has a similar
    feature, but comes with almost none pre-made.)\r\n- The ability to type in the
    glyph window, so I can see the glyph I'm working on in context.\r\n- Virtual slanted
    sidebearings.\r\n- Simple search filter in the main font window (e.g., type \"caron\"
    and instantly see only the glyphs that have \"caron\" in the name).\r\n\r\nThings
    I don't like so much:\r\n\r\n- Transformation tools seem difficult to use (or
    maybe I haven't figured out how they are supposed to work).\r\n- No way to go
    to the next or previous glyph in the glyph drawing view.\r\n\r\nI have not used
    all the features yet, and have not started or finished or completely created a
    font in it, but it has been a useful addition to my tool set and has already saved
    me a lot of work. I am also starting to work somewhat with Robofont.\r\n\r\nI
    don't see Glyphs by itself replacing FontLab, but it's not hard to imagine spending
    more of my time in Glyphs + Robofont + the other UFO tools than in FontLab. It
    will also be interesting to see how FontLab evolves in this changing landscape
    (and with Georg on board)."
  created: '2011-09-19 23:15:11'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "Hi Mark,\r\n\r\nThanks for your nice summary.\r\n\r\n<cite>- No way to go
    to the next or previous glyph in the glyph drawing view.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is
    a way to do this. on the compact/MacBook keyboards use Fn+left/right on the extended
    keyboards use the scroll up/down keys (the two in the middle of the six keys block
    above the cursor keys).\r\n\r\n<cite>- Transformation tools seem difficult to
    use (or maybe I haven't figured out how they are supposed to work).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    know that the transformation panel is a bit confusing. I will try to explain.\r\n\r\nTransformation
    Panel:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>First item, like in Adobe apps, is to choose the origin
    of the transforamtion.</li>\r\n<li>Then two buttons to mirror the selection.</li>\r\n<li>This
    this is the tricky part. If you put in 10% and click the \"+\" button it actually
    scales 110%, if you click the \"-\" button, it does exactly the opposite, scaling
    to 1/110% = 90,91%. So the both operation reverse themselves exactly.</li>\r\n<li>The
    rotation and slanting should be clear</li>\r\n<li>The slanting has one hidden
    functionality. If you hold down the shift key while clicking the slant right button,
    it actually \"cursivies\" the letter. It applies corrections that remove the slanted
    appearance. This only works if you have set the standard stems correctly. The
    same option is available in the transformation filter.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nI
    hope that helps a bit. If you have more question, please ask (either here or in
    the Glyphs forum). I\u2019m happy to help.\r\n\r\nAnd can you describe your workflow
    with UFO - RoboTools - Glyphs?"
  created: '2011-09-20 01:11:19'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Thanks for the tips, Georg. I will try them out.\r\n\r\nRegarding my workflow,
    it's a bit in flux at the moment with all these new tools becoming available (well,
    two new tools, anyway).\r\n\r\nUp to this point, I have used UFO mainly when I
    want to use Metrics Machine, Superpolator, Rounding UFO or other UFO-based tool,
    but still doing most of the production in FontLab.\r\n\r\nI am interested in moving
    to a more UFO-centric workflow and Glyphs seems well-suited to be part of that.
    I like having some flexibility in choosing tools. The .vfb format sort of forces
    you to stay inside FontLab for most of the process, and only using .ufo in a supplementary
    way. Having editors like Glyphs and Robofont that can work directly with .ufo
    format gives me more options, which I'm now exploring."
  created: '2011-09-20 01:53:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">The slanting has one hidden functionality. If you hold down the shift key
    while clicking the slant right button, it actually \"cursivies\" the letter. It
    applies corrections that remove the slanted appearance. This only works if you
    have set the standard stems correctly. The same option is available in the transformation
    filter.\r\n\r\nWow, this sounds very interesting. Does it correct the round letters
    as well (which may not have stems)?"
  created: '2011-09-20 10:33:25'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "<cite>Does it correct the round letters as well (which may not have stems)?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    rounds especially round forms. The stems (Font Info > Masters) are needed to \"scale\"
    the effect.\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-20 23:19:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Georg, Does the \"cursivies\" tool only work if you have done it as onestep
    inside \"gyphs\" or can you import texted slant elsewhere and then correct t in
    \"Glyphs\" uses the same function but not applying slant?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-09-26 19:30:15'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "<cite>Does the \"cursivies\" tool only work if you have done it as onestep
    inside \"gyphs\" or can you import texted slant elsewhere and then correct t in
    \"Glyphs\" uses the same function but not applying slant?</cite>\r\n\r\nYou can\u2019t
    only apply the correction. But why not slant it back first?\r\n\r\nG"
  created: '2011-10-03 15:46:00'
- author:
    name: robarnow
  body: Glyphs is great, and seems much easier to use than Fontlab Studio so far.
    There's a 30-day free trial, so I'd definitely recommend it.
  created: '2011-12-26 20:08:55'
- author:
    name: gilesdickerson
    picture: 117888
  body: "So here's the million dollar question...I've bought FontLab and to keep it
    current, they're recent update. I have NOT used it yet. I'm about to start taking
    some typefaces (mostly display) that I've created for various projects and turn
    them into full faces for clients to use and for me to use for my work.\r\n\r\nShould
    I just cut my losses and buy Glyphs?\r\nOr does the future look promising enough
    for FontLab to start working with it and stick with it for now?\r\n\r\nThese guys
    seem so (maybe a little righteously so) confident that we should all ditch FontLab
    for Glyphs right now, and portrays fontlab as a lost cause. How much of this is
    opinion and how much is tried and tested understanding of the differences in the
    two apps? What are the major type foundries using? Like:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fountaintype.com/catalogue\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vllg.com/fonts\r\n\r\nhttps://ourtype.com/#//\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dstype.com/posts/#dstype\r\n\r\nDo
    they (you) feel the same way?"
  created: '2012-01-20 15:58:49'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: I have been reading up on this subject and found that some (maybe not from
    a quite large enough sample) designers use Glyph to do the drawing and FL for
    the production side.
  created: '2012-01-21 14:00:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: It seems that quite a few are also using Robofont. I think there is going
    to be a lot of flux over the next few years on drawing programs. Until the next
    version of FontLab comes out I doubt there were be a clear winner. Then probably
    there will be some kind of movement one way or another, but who knows...
  created: '2012-01-21 17:25:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'I doubt that there will ever be a clear winner, but soon we may not need
    one. If every app offers native UFO support we will be able to just use the best
    tool for any task and move between them on the fly. '
  created: '2012-01-21 18:06:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The danger of the \"clear winner\"  was proven years ago by Quark and is
    now proven again by Adobe.  Developers who have no competition grow lazy and unresponsive.\r\nAlso,
    an open system encourages more creative development by all parties. If a small
    group or even single individual were to create a truly viable auto-hinting tool,
    they would not need to develop an entire font production product, but could simply
    sell their \"one trick pony\" to everyone and have it fit right in to any work
    flow."
  created: '2012-01-21 21:08:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris, \r\n\r\nas I've written here several times, I agree with you. From
    our own perspective, it's been actually quite a burden to practically be the only
    font tool company on the market (apart from DTL/URW++). Many users have asked
    to implement various kinds of functionalities in FontLab Studio, and the tool
    has grown to become quite complex. We're happy that there are alternatives now,
    because the tool makers can learn from each other, and the tools can complement
    each other (provided the exchange of data is easy, and we hope to achieve that
    with the UFO format). \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-22 16:42:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: BRAVO! Brother Adam :-)
  created: '2012-01-22 20:11:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "TYPO Magazine Winter issue has an interview with Georg Seifert on page 24.\r\n\r\nIt
    is well illustrated and helpful in describing Glyphs.\r\n"
  created: '2012-01-23 21:32:15'
- author:
    name: Synthview
    picture: 121472
  body: "Dear Adam, \r\nare you going to implement a full UFO 2/3 compatibility in
    next FL release?\r\nUsing actual robofab macros, the result doesn't seem to be
    fully satisfactory.\r\nThanks"
  created: '2012-01-23 23:28:24'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Adam answered that one already [[http://typophile.com/node/72668?page=1|on
    another thread:]]\r\n\r\n[22.Jan.2012 8.43am]\r\n<cite>> as per Tal's recommendation,
    we definitely want to have UFO2 support in FontLab Studio 6. \"FLS7\" will likely
    support both UFO2 and UFO3."
  created: '2012-01-23 23:49:15'
- author:
    name: Synthview
    picture: 121472
  body: 'Thanks Cristobal. '
  created: '2012-01-24 09:08:18'
- author:
    name: notanotherfolio
  body: "Hey guys,\r\n\r\nDoes anyone have anything to add to this debate now that
    Glyphs has been out for a while now? Very curious to hear from experienced users
    from both sides, as the investment of each is quite costly. I am about to install
    the Glyphs demo after using the FLS demo for a while to check out its features.
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nPete"
  created: '2013-08-12 00:37:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Try the Glyphs demo first then before you decide.  You will be best able to
    compare how you work with them both.  The hardest part is switching from one to
    another.  If you truly are just beginning, then you have no unlearning to do.
  created: '2013-08-12 01:19:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "I have been using FontLab for years now and after a long learning curve I
    am finally comfortable using it. However I have an idea that working in Glyphs
    will make my life easier. I have been developing a type family in 5 widths and
    7 weights in FL which has been an extremely long and laborious process. I feel
    that it would have been much more straight forward and quicker in Glyphs. So I
    bought it and am trying to learn it, but it doesn't seem that simple to me after
    being used to FL. Are there any books like Leslie Cabarga's 'Learn FontLab Fast',
    but for Glyphs. The tutorials are OK, but there are no real step-by-step guides
    from beginning to generation like LFLF.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nNick"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Thomas
    body: Consider reading the Glyphs manual, available on their site as a free download.
      It should provide you what you require. Also, their online Forum is a valuable
      resource for help; Rainer (Mekkablue) and Georg are usually quite prompt with
      support. Glyphs is a lot easier to learn than FontLab.
    created: '2016-12-14 18:00:00'
  created: '2016-12-14 13:27:53'
- author:
    name: AlexanderKatt
    picture: 128454
  body: I won't elaborate too much, but I started using Glyphs a few months ago and
    to me it seems a lot more modern and simpler to use than Fontlab.
  created: '2016-12-16 17:56:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm the loyal type, so: FontLab. (And Typophile. :-)\r\nI wouldn't mind trying
    out Glyphs... but I'm not buying a Mac just for that."
  created: '2016-12-16 18:29:55'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>Glyphs</strong> offers several features to make font production easier.
    Unicode codes, classes, OpenType features, script grouping, sorting, composites
    with diacritics\u2026 all this Glyphs do automatically or demanding minimum effort
    from the user. It also brings some niceties regarding partial components, letting
    you work with a more modular approach (regarding parts which repeat between glyphs).
    You don't need to worry about glyph names as Glyphs controls that. Georg, Glyphs'
    developer, is regarded as excellent at user support.  And there are dozens of
    scripts to enhance original functions.\r\n\r\n <strong>Fontlab 5</strong> adopts
    other approach. It is up to the user define font classes, features, sorting and
    so on. It is aged and you see that since the very first use as its interface follows
    the late 90s style. The upcoming <strong>FontLab VI</strong> represents a huge
    upgrade from version 5. It is still under development and you can try its public
    previews. The interface is clean, beautiful, very organized, and there is a bunch
    of great tools to design B\xE9zier curves. A number of procedures are now more
    easy to do and some concepts, like Genius/Servant points, Shapes/Clones, Tunni
    controls, and Tags, put on steroids what we used to see in a font editor. But
    the new FontLab still let to the user define most of the font characteristics.
    You will not get auto this or magic that. And, as a completely new application,
    it starts without any add-on/scripts available.\r\n\r\nSo which is better? It
    depends how to you like to work.\r\n\r\nI develop large, multi-script fonts with
    several alternates. For me, it is critical to freely reorder the glyphs and quickly
    find where things are because the fonts are quite big. And I use a well defined
    name schema to identify groups of glyphs (.uc, .sc, .pc, .la. .da, .hs, .op, .ot,
    etc.) which many times are combined (for example, an alternate small caps to match
    a language preference would be xxxx.la.sc). Glyphs expect to find specific suffixes
    like .smcp and .case to make all its automatic features to work. Custom suffixes
    need to be manually handled. For non-Latin scripts, Glyphs adopts 'friendly' names
    with suffixes like xxxxxx.cyr or xxxxxx.grk, what I don't like.\r\n\r\nI also
    prefer to control small details about UI, to manage the OpenType features and
    classes, and to mark glyphs with pale colors to indicate different groups or stages
    of development. In other words, I want to choose exactly how to work. This freedom
    Glyphs does not offer. It chooses so much about the user workflow to achieve more
    automation \u2014 a perfectly valid approach that matches the needs of many designers.
    But, for me, FontLab fits better.\r\n\r\nAnother point is the lack of node/handle
    coordinates in Glyphs \u2014 there is a plug-in that do this, but it is not to
    my taste. So, although Glyphs is a mature, modern, easier and very good font editor,
    for me it is still better to use FL5 (and experiment with the new options of FLVI).
    For you, as I said, it depends how you like to work. Happily, you can try both
    editors (and also the very good <strong>RoboFont</strong>) prior to decide."
  created: '2016-12-16 23:19:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "It is possible to control glyph order in Glyphs. As with many such things,
    there is a custom parameter to give you this control. It takes a list of glyph
    names as its parameter.\r\n\r\nI generally don't use the automatic feature generation.
    I've moved all my font source into Glyphs and I was able to preserve all my existing
    feature code as well as glyph names. \r\n\r\nGlyphs does lots of automatic stuff
    by default, but there are almost always ways to override the defaults if you don't
    like them. \r\n\r\nI also like the fact that Glyphs' document format is plain
    text, similar to UFO or ttx. It's possible to do certain kinds of operations on
    a .glyphs file using a text editor (but be sure to back up first--completely hosing
    the .glyphs file is also possible with this trick)."
  created: '2016-12-21 23:55:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I would like to try out Glyphs, as I am thinking to work on type once again,
    but I believe it requires the latest OsX version\u2026 Hm."
  created: '2017-01-02 10:17:41'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Requires minimum of 10.9.5 for the latest version of Glyphs. The previous
    version of Glyphs, 1.4.5, is also still available.
  created: '2017-01-02 15:05:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I see. Thanks, unfortunately the alternatives on my MacPro are either 10.6.8
    or 10.11, which I have installed on another drive.\r\nI need to stick with 10.6.8
    for now, for many reasons, so I\u2019ll keep using Fontlab. But would love to
    try Glyphs, as I briefly looked at the interface and find it intriguing."
  created: '2017-01-02 20:52:20'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Glyphs 1.4.5 requires only OS X 10.6.6. But, you have 10.11 on another drive,
    so Glyphs 2 will run just fine on that.
  created: '2017-01-02 20:56:00'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Thanks much \u2013 do you know where I can download 1.4.5? I recall I downloaded
    the demo for the 10.1x this summer, but had no opportunity to use it and it probably
    expired.\r\nIt would be very unpractical for me to work under OsX 10.11 right
    now, as I would need Freehand and other things that I have set up under 10.6 but
    no longer work with newer OS versions."
  created: '2017-01-02 21:07:08'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: In Glyphs site, Get App section. Here is the <a href="http://glyphsapp.com/updates/latest.php">Direct
    link.</a>
  created: '2017-01-02 22:15:00'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I can't recommend Glyphs highly enough!\r\n\r\nIf you're even toying with
    the idea of switching to Glyphs, download the 30-day free trial and give it a
    try. If you think you're missing a feature from your previous editor, look around
    in the tutorials or the manual, or ask on the boards: It's probably available,
    and possibly in an easier-to-use form than you're used to. :)\r\n\r\nIn the ancient
    part of this thread, somebody mentions the unified edit windows as a drawback.
    Nonsense! That's the best part of Glyphs. I switched to Glyphs from FontForge,
    and that was one of the most notable improvements. Do spacing & kerning in context
    and with live previewing, and use placeholders to switch from one working glyph
    to the next. Super convenient."
  created: '2017-01-04 14:16:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: (What kind of person would downvote my post above?)
  created: '2017-01-05 18:22:15'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: (The kind who shouldn't be in a forum.)
  created: '2017-01-05 19:23:02'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: I fixed it for you!   :-)
  created: '2017-01-05 20:28:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: (Thank you. As you were.)
  created: '2017-01-05 20:58:29'
date: '2010-12-22 15:16:29'
title: FontLab vs. Glyphs

---
