---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hello everybody,\r\n\r\nSensato Serif can be viewed here: http://www.typophile.com/node/78292\r\n\r\nThis
  is Sensato. Derived from 'Sensational'. It's purpose is to create a highly legible
  sans-serif with a diagonal stress and work just as well for display purposes. Although
  this is not included in the pdf yet, the jpg picture below shows the different grades
  I designed for optical adaption to different sizes. As soon as the Caps are also
  done in both grades (the two extremes) the pdf will be updated. All comments are
  much appreciated. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJasper de Waard\r\n\r\nupdate 2.0: 4 Different
  grades. Only lowercase for now.\r\nupdate Sensato A: Lower contrast, more organic
  features, better stem treatment, smaller terminals, new sample text.\r\n\r\nEnjoy!\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Holy mother of Christ, this is beautiful! Tittles and periods are slightly
    big.
  created: '2010-12-22 17:28:30'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Hahaha Thanks a lot Frode! That's agreat compliment =D You're probably right
    about the tittles and periods. I'll change those. They are still the original
    size from Garamond, which is what I started with.
  created: '2010-12-22 17:37:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "For me, it\u2019s not so much the letters themselves (I can see a number
    of things I would\u2019ve corrected or adjusted). It\u2019s the rythm and colour
    of the text looks so amazing."
  created: '2010-12-22 18:04:59'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Since this is the critique forum, why don't you share what you would have
    corrected or adjusted? I'm afraid a truly good typeface needs more than just good
    rythm and colour, so as I said before, ALL feedback is much appreciated.
  created: '2010-12-22 20:06:44'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Shrink the tittles, yes, but don't change the period. For practical use a
    period should be that big.
  created: '2010-12-22 21:11:02'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes. some test prints confirm what you say Kevin. Is there anything else that
    seems off to your eyes? For example stroke thickness, colour, stress, width, etc.
  created: '2010-12-22 22:00:32'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: For one thing, the lowered apex in your W and w bothers me.
  created: '2010-12-22 22:59:10'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: IMO the rythm and colour is far more important than how attractive individual
    letters are, at least for text faces.
  created: '2010-12-22 23:01:54'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I don't really see anything I'd change. Maybe the eye of g could have slightly
    more contrast? Slightly.
  created: '2010-12-22 23:04:33'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes, I agree. I'll have a look at it. tomorrow.
  created: '2010-12-22 23:33:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The join iin Q might be a bit heavy? I'd personally love to see a more interesting
    shape on that letter.
  created: '2010-12-23 00:12:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: The slightly slanted version doesn't add that much, IMO.
  created: '2010-12-23 00:13:20'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Since I reinforced the rather prominent tittles and period of your font earlier
    I want to say a thing or two:\r\nI agree the tittles are slightly (!) too prominent
    in text, but I wouldn\u2019t change them too much.\r\nThe periods look fine to
    me but there\u2019s something that buggers me about your comma \u2013\r\nmaybe
    its curved shape or the optical period-to-comma ratio.\r\n\r\nI think the /g/
    as a whole could use slightly more contrast, check the word \xABrecognizable\xBB
    in your sample text.\r\n\r\nAbout the W/w: To me, it\u2019s rather the thickness/flatness
    of the apex than the fact that it\u2019s lowered that makes it stick out.\r\n\r\nColour
    and flow are looking great indeed!"
  created: '2010-12-23 00:26:17'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "I know it's early days yet, but the tail of the 'y' makes it look as though
    it is about to snap off... perhaps make it a little lighter? Same with the 'J'.\r\n\r\nI
    would love to see a bold/black version of this!"
  created: '2010-12-23 04:48:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks guys! Don't be easy on my design, just because it's not so long in
    development.\r\n\r\n@Frode: Yes I have tried a similar tail like the J in the
    Q, but decided the original Q looked better. It was a bit late when I did so though,
    so I'll try some other options.\r\nThe slightly slanted version doesn't ad that
    much. True, for the simple reason anybody could slant the font themselves. I'm
    afraid though, that if I don't do it for them, they'll simply forget about it.
    If this ever goes to the market, I won't let people pay extra for the slanted
    version.\r\n\r\n@Joerg: Yes, the comma was quite quickly and never revised since.
    I'll include an improved comma in the next update. Your right about the g. Working
    on that right now. The W is a tough one, but I'll see what I can do about it.\r\n\r\n@Caled:
    The tail of the y might be a bit thick, but I don't see any problem with the tail
    in J. I will start working on the black as soon as soon as I'm fully confident
    with the regular =D"
  created: '2010-12-23 10:32:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "So I uploaded an update and I believe I fixed most of the issues you guys
    pointed out to me. I hope the new Q is interesting enough for you Frode? Any critique
    is still very welcome!\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper"
  created: '2010-12-23 14:09:21'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: Gosh! Lovely
  created: '2010-12-24 12:45:21'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I like it better, but trust your own eyes! Merry christmas!
  created: '2010-12-24 13:02:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Jasper, this has a great deal of potential but then I suppose Garamond is
    reliably good model.\r\n\r\n>>>The slightly slanted version doesn't add that much,
    IMO.\r\n\r\nI am also not sure if the difference between the two fonts Sensa and
    Senso is different enough to warrant pursuing two fonts in the end, although it
    may be an interesting exercise in production. I would decide and concentrate on
    just one version and get it right - others may disagree.\r\n\r\nHere's some feedback
    on the glyphs themselves:\r\n\r\nA lot of talk about period and comma. I would
    construct a colon and a semicolon and stick all four punctuation marks alongside
    each other. The point on the top of the comma will help you get the right size
    for the period and more especially the comma. You probably cannot design the comma
    and period in isolation from the semicolon and colon. I like the size of the tittle
    on the i and j. I'm not sure if those who say it should be different distance
    from the top of the stem of i and j aren't a little deluded. \r\n\r\nThe comma
    is normally cut at the top from 8 o'clock to 2 o'clock. This reflects the angle
    of the pen, though you might want to contradict the pen convention, although from
    the look of the /O/ for example, I would doubt it.\r\n\r\nGeneral comment: I think
    the diagonal arms taper outwards a little too much on /A/, /K/, /R/, /V/, /W/,
    /X/, /Y/ and this also applies to many of the lower case counterparts.\r\n\r\nUpper
    case:\r\n\r\n/A/ looks shorter than the rest, maybe because it's next to /B/ which
    overshoots too much in my world.\r\n/B/ a bit too bouncy, curved on top and bottom?\r\n/D/
    looks taller top and bottom than /C/\r\n/E/, /F/ lovely, though some may want
    /F/ crossbar even lower still.\r\n/G/ I would be thickening the right hand vertical
    a little and maybe even a touch taller, could it be misread at speed as a /C/?\r\n/L/
    needs to be narrower than bottom of /E/. It may already be narrower but still
    looks wide. You're trying to avoid a massive white gap in words like 'Liverpool'
    which kerning will not address.\r\n/M/ is quite wide but you may not have a lot
    of choice if apex is coming right down to baseline.\r\n/N/ may need a thicker
    diagonal, especially telling next to /O/.\r\n/Q/ I would make the angle of the
    angle of cut across the tail more horizontal, certainly the horizontal side of
    45 degrees.\r\n/R/ leg looks a little light.\r\n/S/ top looks heavier than bottom.\r\n/T/
    and /U/ marginally narrow? /T/ crossbar too heavy (also applies to crossbars of
    /Z/).\r\n/X/ slightly light.\r\n/Z/ too tall, I realise this applies to /T/ too.\r\n\r\nThe
    tops of those caps look a little bit like a roller coaster. Part of achieving
    more evenness may be to flatten some of the /B/, /D/, /P/ and /R/ tops and bottoms.\r\n\r\nLower
    case:\r\n\r\n/a/ bowl goes down too low compared with the tail. \r\n/d/ looks
    wide next to /e/.\r\n/g/ tail is pointy on right.\r\n/i/ and /j/ need to share
    the same x-height?\r\n/p/ would make a nice /d/ if you rotated it. The stem is
    a little too narrow (applies also to /b/ and /q/).\r\n/s/ looks bottom-heavy (reverse
    of /S/).\r\n/z/ crossbars too thick.\r\n\r\nHope this helps, the length of feedback
    is proportional to the promise of the typeface. I would forget about Expletus
    and throw yourself into this! It's reading very nicely and that is a good starting
    place, you can keep refining glyph shapes later, it's much harder to get it to
    read well.\r\n\r\nMerry Christmas,\r\nNick."
  created: '2010-12-24 21:04:52'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Wow! I don't know if it's just me, but I read your whole comment with the
    voice of a wiseman in my mind. I believe such a long comment deserves an (almost)
    equally long answer, so I'll do my best to be as clear as possible. Some of the
    things you say, I have already noticed. Some of the things I haven't, and some
    I disagree to. \r\n\r\nI must admit that, although slanting it a little still
    adds a value to the look IMO, there is no need to include this in the typeface.
    Anybody could do this in most applications themselves after all, without having
    to use a seperate font. So Senso no longer is. Just Sensa and perhaps, later,
    Sensa Serif.\r\n\r\nThe tittles look fine to you, because I have already changed
    them. What you have been looking at was an update with changed tittles. The fact
    that it looks right to you probably shows that I scaled them down to the right
    size. =D At a second look they appear to flat, so I'll make them a little more
    round.\r\n\r\nI have already redesigned the comma and other punctuation which
    I will include in my next update (perhaps tomorow already). I made the angle on
    the top of the a a bit more flat than you suggested. Those are some helpful tips
    you got there!\r\n\r\nUppercase:\r\n\r\nThe diagonal arms taper out more than
    is usual, but IMO this is the only way of making them look like they belong with
    the other strokes in the typeface. I will try to prove myself wrong by changing
    a few diagonals, but I doubt it.\r\n\r\nI can't say anything sensible about your
    opinion on the individual glyphs, before having tried some changes. Unlike you
    might think, my minds capability to picture shapes is not so good, but I don't
    believe this has much influence on my designs.\r\n\r\nThe top of the caps from
    Myriad Pro (In my opinion the best designed/best balanced typeface I know of)
    also look a bit like a roller coaster (I wouldn't call it that way, but I get
    the idea) and it doesn't bother me, Nor does it bother me in Sensa. However, I
    will try to see if it looks better with more flat tops and bottoms.\r\n\r\nLowercase:\r\n\r\nSame
    thing as with the caps. I can't say anything sensible about most of the things
    you say. Just some remarks: the d is a turned around p (the reverse actually),
    so it probably shouldn't be. i and j share the same x height (optical illusion
    perhaps. I'm unable to see it though.)\r\n\r\nAt display size, many stems look
    to thin indeed, but (perhaps it's technical problem) at text size they appear
    fine. They used to appear too thick at text size (also on high quality prints)
    so I changed them. <strong>Do they appear to thin also at text size to any of
    you guys?</strong> If not I have already failed one of my goals, which was to
    create a typeface equally useful for text and display use. I might have to make
    different optical weights now, which improves excellence, but is not so practical.
    <strong>Any opinions?</strong>\r\n\r\nThanks for a long, helpful and positive
    comment! This is of great help. Expletus will soon be released and I still have
    to do the Italics, so I can't intirely forget about it, but I won't make a pro
    version like I intended to do earlier.\r\n\r\nOne thing I don't understand. \"you
    can keep refining glyph shapes later, it's much harder to get it to read well.\"
    Shouldn't I refine glyphs in order to make it read better?\r\n\r\nA very happy
    Christmas to everyone and thanks again,\r\n\r\nJasper\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-24 22:17:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Jasper, I love the fact that you are prepared to stand by your guns on some
    of this stuff; good for you! Your gut instincts may serve you well.\r\n\r\nHowever
    I would consider that some of the curviness of Myriad (top and bottom of some
    caps) was merely to move it away from Frutiger and serves no useful purpose except
    to give it a softer appearance.\r\n\r\nI had a look at Nota and think you've got
    your work cut out. That is fine work indeed fine work as you commented in your
    previous thread 'Garamond Sans'. \r\n\r\nI think that some of the tricks that
    typographers use to give optical correction are massively overplayed (e.g. amount
    of overshoot on curved forms, the flaring of slanted arms, the tipping forward
    of the top of a /t/ etc.) But the point is that you shouldn't be noticing these
    effects, they are there to make stuff look right, otherwise the effect has failed.
    If you can pull off an optical correction without it being noticed, that is success.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I'm looking again at the /i/ and /j/ and the x-height is markedly different on
    the pdf. What's going on with that? Brilliant on the rotated /p/ and /d/! :) However
    the /p/ and the /d/ are definitely not the same on the pdf that I'm looking at.
    I would love to be able to do a capture of what I'm seeing but I'm not on my normal
    machine.\r\n\r\n>>>One thing I don't understand. \"you can keep refining glyph
    shapes later, it's much harder to get it to read well.\" Shouldn't I refine glyphs
    in order to make it read better?\r\n\r\nYes and no. Now you've got it to read
    so well, it doesn't need major work, merely cosmetic refinements to make the individual
    glyphs look nicer...however, there is no use in getting beautiful individual glyphs
    which just don't work together or are poorly spaced but you're a million miles
    from that here and that is very commendable.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't busy yourself with
    optical weights yet, it will make your head hurt and you should be enjoying life,
    not living with a headache. Not unless you think this is the font which you're
    going to be remembered for. Think about a pro font having 1,000+ glyphs and how
    much work that is already going to involve.\r\n\r\nWonder what Mr Shinn makes
    of your new name Sensa/Senso in view of his recent releases :)?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-24 23:02:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Meant to say, not sure if Senso was the right one to ditch, although Sensa
    keeps you away from Nota. Get away from Nota where you can (as well as all those
    fonts Stephen Coles mentioned in your first thread.\r\n\r\nNice one."
  created: '2010-12-24 23:08:48'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Nick, While working on your comments I noticed that some of the things you
    noticed are simply the result of bad rendering. If you print the pdf, some of
    the problems you stated will probably disappear. Z and T also looked to high on
    my screen at 135%, but when I made it 100% they aligned nicely, just like in the
    printed version. This doesn't mean everything you stated is useless. In fact I
    have already made quite a lot welcome changes, but it explains some weird things
    you noticed. Maybe when you print it you will also notice that the p really is
    a turned around d ;-d \r\nI'll get back to typophile today with a new update including
    all the changes I made after reading your comments. \r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper"
  created: '2010-12-25 11:22:50'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Sensa was the right one to ditch because it makes more sense to slant a straight
    font in an application (e.g. inDesign) than to straighten a slanted font. The
    name Sensa comes from 'sensational' and has nothing to do with Sense and Sensibility
    if that's what you meant. Your probably right about the optical weights, so I'll
    just have to find some sort of compromise between display and text, I guess. I'll
    start a new topic on this in the 'Design' section. See if anybody else experienced
    the same problem.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-25 11:28:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Jasper, Sorry but I wonder now if I preferred the slightly curved /B/,/D/,
    etc. I just think it was too curved in the earlier versions.\r\n\r\nHowever, still
    looking good in text even having made changes.\r\n\r\nI definitely preferred the
    flatter periods. The heavier you get the flatter they will need to be. I also
    much prefer the new comma. Questionmark /?/ looks a little Hebraic and doesn't
    fit with rest of typeface to my mind.\r\n\r\n/f/ and /t/ verticals look thin.\r\n\r\n/t/
    angle at the top troubles me. I probably want it to be horizontal but I can't
    say why.\r\n\r\n/C/ and /c/ may need more advance width on right (set 'chin/chick'
    next to 'thin/thick') (/B/ may need less advance width.)\r\n\r\n/W/ looks a little
    thick at central apex, the two middle strokes may need to be a little less tapered.\r\n/Y/
    Vertical stem lookslight compared with left arm. It's a vertical so shouldn't
    it logically be optically as thick as /T/ stem.\r\n/Z/I find it interesting that
    you have given /Z/ and ink-trap but have not given /W/ when the angle in the /W/
    is even tighter. Same applies to /M/ vs /N/ (if /N/ ink-trapped, why not /M/?)\r\n(I
    like the shape of the ink-trap though and I am definitely not saying don't have
    ink-traps.)\r\n\r\nIf you're saying /T/ and /Z/ have same height as /U/ then this
    is rendering appallingly which makes feedback on shapes potentially pointless.
    Are you applying any hinting? Might be worth switching off before providing a
    new pdf...\r\n\r\nLastly, if you're going to genuinely test readability, you're
    going to need to set some words in a language that some people actually still
    speak ;)\r\n\r\nI would also be inclined to leave old versions up there for comparison."
  created: '2010-12-26 21:13:34'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Wow Nick. You reall keep going on this one :-)\r\n\r\nOn the B, D tec it's
    probably gonna be the golden midway. Same for the tittles (I guess you meant tittles
    when you said periods? the period remains unchanged.)\r\nMany changes are made
    to give it a more even colour in text, so in fact it should look better in text.
    The question mark is not usual no, but like it's shape. It's comparable to Calluna's
    question mark. I think the Haebraic thing will get less if I make the top a little
    thinner.\r\n\r\nf and t verticals are thin, bit yet again, they look fine to me.
    What I really need is a good laser printer. To judge a typeface at text size,
    inkjet just won't work. I have already asked a printer whom I have good relationship
    with if he has a not-too-expensive solution. \r\n\r\nYour definitely right about
    the top of t, I'll change that.\r\n\r\nWith 'advance width' I assume you mean
    spacing. All the spacing so far is inDesign's optical function. Works quite well
    doesn't it?\r\n\r\nYes. I had the same thought about W, but somehow didn't get
    to it yet. Your right on spot with Y too.\r\n\r\nThe lack of inktraps on some
    spots is just sloppyness. I'll include inktraps everywhere they're needed in next
    update.\r\n\r\nI'm not applying any hinting. I'll apply autohinting in next update.
    That might solve the problem. But the thing is: a screen is made out of pixels.\r\n\r\nI
    remove old versions becasue I have seen people commenting regarding old pdf files
    in other topics in the critique section. Furthermore: When I've made a change
    and it looks right to me, I might choose something between the original and new
    version in the end, but I don't want to get stuck in older versions. If something
    looks 'wrong', I should be able to see this without knowing hwo it used to look.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again for some great feedback!\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper"
  created: '2010-12-26 23:20:58'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: sorry for my sloppy typing, it's getting late.
  created: '2010-12-26 23:24:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>I'm not applying any hinting. I'll apply autohinting in next update. That
    might solve the problem. But the thing is: a screen is made out of pixels.\r\n\r\nPixels
    or not, I cannot understand why, if the points at the top of the T and Z are at
    the same height as U, V, H etc, they are rendering so far north of where they
    should be, at all viewing sizes. I'll post something in the next couple of days.\r\n\r\nOn
    /t/ and /f/ stems are noticeably thinner than the others to me. Again, I would
    say if the adjustment is obvious/apparent, you've probably overcooked it.\r\n\r\nLook
    forward to next posting. Keep going."
  created: '2010-12-27 20:32:17'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I'll visit some copy shops tomorrow, hoping they'll have a true postscript
    printer with at least 2400 dpi. After that I should be able to see what the stemthickness
    should be. Looking forward to it! My next update will probably be in one or two
    days. I hope hinting will solve your problem.
  created: '2010-12-27 22:37:43'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "This update includes PS hinting Nick. If your working on OSX the alignment
    and thickness problems should be solved. I checked it on my Mac and everything
    aligns nicely now. That is, on my screen. It's still best to print it, but I understand
    this might get a bit expensive. t and f are still mathematically thinner than
    the rest, but perhaps they used to look thinner than they are on your screen and
    will look fine now due to the hinting. \r\n\r\nI made some testprints from a copyshop
    today. The quality still wasn't what I'm really looking for, but better than my
    inkjet. These prints showed that the f and t looked thicker than the rest so I
    made them a tad thinner (1 unit) compared to last time. I've found a copyshop
    with a printer that's probaly good enough for my needs, but they haven't responded
    to my email yet. I think I'll start working on the numerals and leave the stems
    for what they are untill I have some real quality testprints.\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2010-12-28 21:12:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Hi Jasper, this version is looking very nice indeed. I'm still on Windows
    XP but looks fine.\r\n\r\nI'd prefer the tittles to be rounder, I guess what you're
    going for should be a smaller version of the period for consistency? As far as
    the positioning of the tittles over the /i/ and /j/ is concerned, won't your Dutch
    /ij/ look weird if the tittles are at noticeably different heights? I've had a
    look at a whole lot of sans serifs (e.g. Gill, Stone) to see what they do and
    they all seem to put the tittle at exactly the same heights for both /i/ and /j/.
    I wonder if the change of height thing in Garamond is to do with counterbalancing
    serifs?\r\n\r\nAfter everything else I said, I wonder if the /B/, /D/, /P/ and
    /R/ could withstand a touch more curvature top AND bottom. I think the angle at
    the bottom of inner stroke on bowls of /B/ and /D/ either needs softening or you
    curve them in as per original. I'm sorry, I feel like I sent you on a wild goose
    chase with the flat stroke approach.\r\n\r\n/C/ looks like it is tipping backwards,
    less so on /c/ but still a bit notceable to me in text. Same could be said for
    /G/, although that's a fine letter you've drawn.\r\n\r\n/E/ angle of terminal
    on middle bar looks different from top and bottom to me, same with /F/?\r\n\r\n/K/
    angle too far away from stem. Since width of the whole character looks good, maybe
    make the arms less inclined so apex is nearer the stem? Apex could also go down
    a bit so the optical centre is closer to crossbar of /H/, same for /k/ but you
    may disagree.\r\n\r\n/L/ you may even get away with a touch more off the foot.\r\n\r\n/M/
    is very nice indeed, you're looking for similar central strokes in /W/ (i.e. less
    tapered still). /M/ could maybe go a fraction narrower, as could /W/ maybe?\r\n\r\n/R/
    still light on leg/foot and at the junction. Look at same stroke in /X/ - much
    thicker.\r\n\r\n/T/ optical thing - does the whole crossbar need to move slightly
    to the right? (BTW, /T/ and /Z/ horizontals looking much better and correct height
    too!\r\n\r\n/quotesingle/ and /quotedbl/ really like the angel you have cut those
    off at, can it be the same for /comma/ and all quotes?\r\n\r\n/t/ could withstand
    slight leaning to right at top. You could also extend the arm out a little further.
    Or else, for consistency, you could make it more like the /f/ and cut it at an
    angle higher up as shown below:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jasper2_4081.png]\r\n\r\n/y/
    I preferred a gentler curve on the tail as per earlier versions? Looks like it's
    got a kink in it to me.\r\n\r\n/b/, /d/, /p/ and /q/ There is still some inconsistency
    with the widths of these. In previous posts you've said the /p/ and /d/ are the
    same glyph but rotated. I assume you would do the same thing with /b/ and /q/.
    Have a look at the capture below:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jasper_3534.png]\r\n\r\nMy
    feeling is that the /d/ and /q/ are a good deal wider than they need to be (even
    if you are following the Garamond model). Those red rectangles are all identical.
    To my mind, the /b/ and /p/ are the right width but the /d/ and /q/ are just too
    wide. Remember, I'm sure you do, the white counters play just as imporant a role
    as the black strokes. You don't want big white holes which I think you are getting
    a little with /d/ in text.\r\n\r\nWell done on the ink-traps! \r\n\r\nKeep going."
  created: '2010-12-29 10:59:49'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks Nick. The tittles look quite round to me and the tittle on i and j
    really are on the same height, I'm afraid. Seems like hinting doesn't fix everything.
    Although I want to avoid getting into the technical things to early, It's good
    to know how much Windows xp influences the way the type looks. Could you show
    me some more screenshots of what it looks like on your pc, also on smaller sizes?
    That would be really helpful.\r\n\r\nSome other weird things you noticed must
    be the effect of the poor rendering on Windows xp. The b and d are actually the
    same width, so it seems like the poor rendering still occurs at larger sizes (Are
    you working with Adobe Reader? If not, maybe you should try it). If your working
    on xp, you actually need Truetype hinted fonts, which I won't make during the
    design process. The t does lean to the right a little on the top, which is visible
    on my screen, but I think Windows Xp sticks to the hinting, which makes it appear
    straight. I like the t as it is, so I'll stick to it.\r\n\r\nYour definitely right
    about the C c G E F W R T y and the quotes.\r\n\r\nThe q is different from the
    b for a reason. The same thing can be seen in Nick Shinn's 'Sense'. The q has
    to be flatter at the top because otherwise the u will look as if it's too high
    in words like quality. The q is very often followed by a u so that's quite an
    important pair. If you look at Plantin for example, you'll see they added a small
    piece to the q to make it work when followed by u. In some typefaces they use
    the q (with a 'flat' top) to make the b. I've tried this with Sensa, but it just
    doesn't look right that way.\r\n\r\nAlthough your comments are still very welcome
    and useful I don't see why you don't make a print of the pdf. I understand it
    would be a waste of paper and ink to do this with every new update, but it should
    help you see how your screen influences what you see. I have just finished a version
    with slightly thicker stems, so if you plan on making a print perhaps you should
    wait for the next update.\r\n\r\nI've had a look at your website and although
    I'm not so much of a logo expert at least the typography in all of them looks
    really nice. Especially Matterhorn Capital, which looks like a custom job, right.
    You obviously have an eye for typedesign but I can't find any fonts of you on
    the internet. Why not?\r\n\r\nA cheeky question, just out of curiousity. Do you
    think Sensa has the potential of being accepted by one of the better foundries?
    (e.g. FontFont, Font Bureau, Monotype, etc.)\r\n\r\nThanks again for some great
    feedback Nick!"
  created: '2010-12-29 13:38:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Hey, wait a minute. I've saved it and opened it in Acrobat and it's looking
    a lot better...I really hope I haven't wasted too much of your time! I'm guessing
    Chrome has its own pdf viewer built in because it now looks a lot better (imagine,
    I thought it looked great anyway, now it looks even better!) BTW Will someone
    please explain that whole Google Chrome pdf thing to me!?\r\n\r\n>>>...I can't
    find any fonts of you on the internet. Why not?\r\n\r\nBecause type design appears
    to take a lot longer than I thought it would. Not long now though, I hope.\r\n\r\n>>>A
    cheeky question, just out of curiousity. Do you think Sensa has the potential
    of being accepted by one of the better foundries? (e.g. FontFont, Font Bureau,
    Monotype, etc.)\r\n\r\nViability depends on a range of weights, plus italics.
    When you've got the regular sorted out, it'll be time to start on the bold. When
    you've got the bold sorted out, it'll be time to make a multiple master and extrapolate
    to light and heavy. Once you've engineered the light and heavy, you'll need to
    make another multiple master to revisit the regular and bold, to make sure you're
    still happy. (So the regular you are currently slaving over is unlikely to be
    the one you end up going with in the end! Frustrating, huh?) When you have got
    a multiple master with a weight axis that you're happy with, that's probably the
    time to start thinking about different optical sizes, if that's still on your
    radar. (I haven't even mentioned the italics yet!)\r\n\r\nNow some designers use
    more than one multiple master to establish all their weights, since at the heavy
    end, you may have to make serious adjustments for it still to work, depending
    on the design itself.\r\n\r\nI guess, above all, what a foundry is looking for
    more than anything is a robust concept because they want great-looking typefaces
    that are going to make some cash. So if you're asking whether a foundry would
    be interested, keep going!!"
  created: '2010-12-29 16:22:38'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"I really hope I haven't wasted too much of your time!\" You wasted my time?!
    I'm very grateful for your comments Nick.\r\n\r\nExtrapolating doesn't always
    work the way it should, so I think I'll make a black and light and interpolate
    to make the other weights. If done properly, there shouldn't be a need for editing
    the generated weights by hand this way. This is a different topic though. I first
    want to make sure I got all the uc and lc in the regular right, before I start
    thinking about other weights."
  created: '2010-12-29 18:08:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>Extrapolating doesn't always work the way it should\r\n\r\nYou're absolutely
    right, it doesn't, but if you start with your regular and bold (the most used
    weights, I'm guessing), you'll have to extrapolate to get a rough light and heavy.\r\n\r\nAssuming
    you're making 5 weights, you are currently working on Wt2 (regular), and soon
    to be working on Wt4 (bold). You're going to have to extrapolate to get at least
    basis for Wt1 (light) and Wt5 (Heavy). I'm not pretending Wt1 and Wt5 are going
    to look right from extrapolating but how else are you going to establish Wt1 and
    Wt5? Once you have got Wt1 and Wt5 looking right, then you need to work out if
    your Wt2 and Wt4 (and of course Wt3 (medium, if you're having medium, that is)
    also look right (and are faithful to the original concept).\r\n\r\nI'm now working
    on my second viable font and this time I haven't started with a regular but a
    hairline and an extrablack. Some may call me naive but I quite like the way it's
    going."
  created: '2010-12-30 09:19:51'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"I'm now working on my second viable font and this time I haven't started
    with a regular but a hairline and an extrablack. Some may call me naive but I
    quite like the way it's going.\" That's exactly what I plan to do, only I also
    make the regular in between to get a better idea of what it's supposed to look
    like. Hairline and extrablack is much harder to balance out IMO than a regular,
    so if I started out with only hairline and extrablack, the regular probably wouldn't
    turn out the way I want it to. Your simply a more advanced typedesignerthan ,
    so for you only Hairline and ExtraBlack seems like a logical solution. Why don't
    you post your work on typophile?\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-30 10:08:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>Why don't you post your work on typophile?\r\n\r\nWhat, and bare my soul
    to the entire world? I think you're very brave!\r\n\r\nI did once post something,
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/37598\">Energy</a> back in the day. That's
    the face I've gone back to now, albeit it look a whole lot different now (seven
    weights versus original eight) plus it has morphed through several changes. I
    didn't get much feedback so didn't want to flog a dead horse, even though it's
    looking a whole lot nicer these days. I might post something soon, who knows..."
  created: '2010-12-30 12:11:26'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I'm not brave. I'm simply realistic enough to see that I don't have a choice.
    You didn't get much feedback because there wasn't much say, apart from the fact
    that it might needed some more uniqueness. The amount of feedback is not a representative
    of the quality of the design. To me it comes closest to Myriad Pro, which is on
    of my favs. If you post it at a stage when it's alomst finished you should be
    safe from piracy. I would love to see it some time!
  created: '2010-12-30 21:47:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "You're on fire with those numerals!\r\n\r\n/k/, /v/, /y/ and /w/ maybe slightly
    wide, /k/ especially. Looks proportionally a lot wider than the /K/.\r\n\r\nSensato...now
    sounds Italian. Why not give it a more Dutch name, like Centrumraad? :) \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    would love to see some bold!\r\n\r\nNice going, long way to go, here's to a very
    productive 2011. Happy New Year, Jasper!"
  created: '2010-12-31 20:24:45'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: It's italian because the typeface feels Italian to me. I'm proud of being
    Dutch though ;-D Happy new year Nick! Cheers!
  created: '2010-12-31 22:15:43'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"Anyway, would love to see some bold!\"\r\n\r\nHow 'bout this?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sensato-black_5497.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-01 21:11:51'
- author:
    name: Curioustype
    picture: 112066
  body: "It never ceases to amaze me how many times I've looked through the critique
    section and stumbled across something that looks very much like something I'm
    right in the middle of doing, which invariably has me saying \"@$@%^ it!\" to
    myself. While my current project differs slightly in a handful of ways from this
    work (i.e., the slightly curved lines to the immediate left of the shoulders in
    the m, n, r and p; also above the crossbar of the lowercase 't'), it's still way
    too close for me to feel enough difference. It's definitely a beautiful typeface,
    though, and one of which you should be proud.\r\n\r\nJust one question, though,
    keeping in mind I haven't read all the entries on the above thread: If you are
    not going to enclose what I guess would be called the \"bowls\" in the P, 6, and
    9, is there something preventing you from adopting the same concept to the R and
    the B? Obviously you could turn them both upside-down and make them sing \"Unforgettable\"
    if you wanted to; I'm simply wondering what the philosophy there was, if any at
    all.\r\n\r\nNicely done."
  created: '2011-01-02 02:31:42'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "\"it's still way too close for me to feel enough difference.\" Does that
    mean you will stop working on it? Could send me a pict of your typeface?\r\n\r\nI
    won't enclose the bowls in P 6 and 9 because it looks right. No more philosophy
    needed. If you look at other typefaces you'll see it's not my invention."
  created: '2011-01-02 10:12:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Bold looks like a good starting place. Wonder of it's a bit too heavy but
    the acid test is putting some bold in amongst some regular in a block of copy
    and see if it's black enough.\r\n\r\nBy my reckoning, sans bolds generally tend
    to be between 1.4 and 1.8 times thicker and I would guess that your stem widths
    are down the 1.8 end. I would also suggest that Myriad's Bold is very dark (maybe
    too dark) but then Myriad Regular is by no means slim!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/32313\">This
    thread</a> may give you some food for thought. Eben gives a whole bunch of other
    links too within his post on that thread. I love maths but I'm sure some people
    were thinking I was uncouth for trying to look for mathematical help rather than
    just trusting my eye.\r\n\r\nNice one."
  created: '2011-01-02 15:53:44'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'It''s intended as a heavy rather than bold. I''ll create the bold, semi-bold
    and black through interpolation. I Although I''m not a big fan of extrapolation
    I made a quick test and t worked for creating the black. The full weight range
    will be something like: thin, light, regular, medium, semi-bold, bold, heavy,
    black. I might not make italics for some of the extreme weights, but I haven''t
    decided on that yet.'
  created: '2011-01-02 16:41:27'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: 'Very good work, Jasper. Congrats. BTW, in Portuguese and Spanish, <em>sensato</em>
    is the person who act with good sense (also: concious, sensible, reasonable, judicious).'
  created: '2011-01-03 02:28:58'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks! that's good to know. I liked the name Sensa which came from Sensational,
    but is a little too close to Nick Shinn's Sense so the obvious thing would be
    'Sensatio' (sensational) but it sounds too long, so I took away the i.
  created: '2011-01-03 08:07:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>Sensato... now sounds Italian.</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote><p>in
    Portuguese and Spanish, sensato is the person who act with good sense (also: concious,
    sensible, reasonable, judicious).</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn Italian, \u201Csensato\u201D
    has the same meaning as in Portuguese and Spanish. It\u2019s an adjective which
    could be applied either to people or to ideas or actions."
  created: '2011-01-03 11:19:35'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I tried the spanish translator a few times when I was looking for a name.
    Funny to find that I've come up with a word that translates very well to a bunch
    of languages, without using the translator. Sensible or reasonable is not a bad
    name for typeface is it?
  created: '2011-01-03 14:21:05'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Your typeface has a lot of \xABDutchness\xBB in it \u2013 why not a Dutch
    name?\r\nTo me type design (as well as graphic design btw) could use some more
    \xABpride of origin\xBB nowadays. After all, that\u2019s a great USP for your
    typeface.\r\nAnd I think there are far too few typefaces with Dutch names out
    there, measured against the vast amount of talented Dutch type designers!"
  created: '2011-01-03 15:09:18'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: It is known that Dutch people are not really proud of their country. A lot
    Dutch people (including me) don't even know the national anthem. Dutch is also
    a really hard language to pronounce for foreigners, so Dutch names are often not
    very functional. What do you mean by Dutchness? I wasn't really aware of that.
    I've never really studied the history of type in different countries. I must say,
    after I found out the meaning of 'Sensato' in a few languages, I'm convinced it's
    a good name. Your welcome to submit a Dutch name if you want to, but I'll probably
    stick with Sensato. at least for now.
  created: '2011-01-03 16:57:45'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<cite>It is known that Dutch people are not really proud of their country.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    surprised to know that. In South America your country has a very reputable image.
    Nederland is known as an organized, liberal and highly developed country, with
    an outstanding living quality and education. Your long tradition in graphic design
    is also widely referred \u2013 a Dutch landmark besides tulipes, bicycles, art
    and the dikes. Not to mention WIC and the magic '74 soccer team.\r\n\r\nFor many
    Brazilians, the Dutch defeat in Pernambuco, in 1654, was a pitty. They claim that
    to be a Dutch colony would have resulted in a much better Brazil. Although this
    is just a historic speculation, there is no doubt Nassau's administration was
    a golden age in colonial Pernambuco, with many valuable heritge. BTW, the first
    type tools in South America were brought by the Dutchmen circa 1637.\r\n\r\nWell,
    after this off-topic comment, let me add there is a number of recent releases
    named with words from the designer mother tongue (Tisa, Alegria and Despeinada
    are samples). So, except if you adopt something dificult like verantwoordelijk,
    a Dutch name would work. Anyway, Sensato is also good. Due to its Latin origin,
    it's easily recognizable as something related to sense in many languages."
  created: '2011-01-03 18:07:18'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Jasper is a really young guy\u2026 Believe me (as a Dutchman three times
    his age) that the average Dutchman and \u2013woman are quite proud of their country!\r\n\r\nThe
    Brazilian link Freiberger mentions is one example of the extensive influence of
    the Low Countries during the period that was our \u2018Golden Age\u2019, a period
    when the Dutch ruled the world of commerce, applied science, seafaring and warfaring
    (Prince Maurits reintroduced classic concepts of drilling and coordinated movements
    on the battlefield). \r\n\r\nAnd on a somewhat more type-related stance: in the
    same period the Dutch were the publishers of the free-thinking world: a place
    where the most advanced thinkers of that time could evade the all-pervading censorship
    in countries like France, Great-Britain etcetera by having their works published
    in Leiden, Amsterdam, Antwerp, Utrecht. \r\n\r\nRequired reading matter: Simon
    Schama's \u2018The Embarrassment of Riches: An Interpretation of Dutch Culture
    in the Golden Age\u2019 (1987) and Jonathan Israel\u2019s \u2018The Dutch Republic:
    Its Rise, Greatness and Fall, 1477-1806\u2019 (1995)."
  created: '2011-01-03 18:36:08'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "As you might have seen I uploaded update 5. Underneath is the first draft
    for the serif. So far I have only designed the letters shown underneath, but thanks
    to the (already) diagonal stress it's quite easy to turn it into a serif. My original
    idea (timewise) was to completely design and release the Sans first, and finish
    and release the Serif later. Would it not be better to release them both at the
    same time? Hope you like it.\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sensato-serif_6090.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-16 14:16:51'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "Gorgeous.\r\n\r\nHave you tried adding a descending serif to the top of the
    lowercase 'a' in the serif version of your font? I'd also be interested to see
    what it looks like with serifs on the 's' and the 'c'. Perhaps it's just my screen
    but it also looks like the legs of the 'n' and the 'm' grow thicker as they descend
    to the serifs (as opposed to the 'n' and the 'm' in the sans version, which appear
    to have the same width all the way through). But as I say, maybe it's my screen.\r\n\r\nIn
    regard to naming, I'm quite a fan of the idea of naming fonts after towns that
    have had a particular impact on me or the font. Somehow I don't think it looks
    like a 'Rotterdam', but maybe there's another town that has had an impact on you
    personally? Even though those who don't know Dutch may struggle (toss a 'G' or
    an 'IJ' in there for good measure, or perhaps a double-vowel), it may form part
    of the charm!"
  created: '2011-01-17 22:24:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You based your sans on removing the serifs from Garamond, and now you're adding
    them again?
  created: '2011-01-17 23:49:45'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Haha yes frode I am. However, Sensato has gone through so many changes that
    it's impossible to find even a little piece that is still the same as in Garamond,
    so I'm confident that the serif has enough character of his own.\r\n\r\nThanks
    Caled. I have already made quite a few changes including serifs on a and s (c
    terminal is still the same). You're right about the legs, they do grow thicker
    as they go downward, but I don't see the porblem with this. The serifs are, again,
    loosely based on Garamond.\r\n\r\nI will upload Sensato Serif in the serif critique
    section today or tomorrow.\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper."
  created: '2011-01-18 06:26:55'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: Nice work!  I feel like the ear on the g is the slightest bit too long though.  Have
    you tried reducing its length?
  created: '2011-01-18 17:43:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks Trevor. Yes, you could well be right about the g. However, I will only
    make a decision on this after I have made some proper testprints. I will get a
    good laserprinter tomorrow, so I'll be able to judge it properly then.
  created: '2011-01-18 18:48:08'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/78292\r\n\r\nSensato Serif is in the Serif section.
    A new bookface has arived! Only lowercase for now.\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper"
  created: '2011-01-22 11:08:26'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I changed the colour of Sensato according to the serif and made a number
    of other small changes. The Caps are unchanged yet, hop to include them in the
    next update. Sensato Black wis also being worked on :D Hope this is an improvement!\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Jasper"
  created: '2011-01-28 16:42:20'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: Amazing stuff, Jasper!
  created: '2011-01-28 17:03:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks Joerg, thats a quick response! So, I guess the lighter colour in the
    Sans works? It should at least make it more interesting at Display sizes.
  created: '2011-01-28 17:08:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Hi, Jasper. Don't over-engineer this. I'm not a fan of the micro-curves (corner
    softening) that you have introduced into the lower case. I think your shapes may
    have peaked already before the addition of these tiny curves. You may feel the
    characters are not interesting enough without this softening but I feel you may
    have gone a bit gimmicky for no good reason. If, on the other hand, you are resorting
    to micro detailing to give differentiation from other fonts, your basic concept
    may be at fault. However, I happen to believe the concept is strong, as you know.
    I'd love to see some more characters; diacritics, lining numerals, that kind of
    thing. Cheers.
  created: '2011-01-30 20:03:13'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes, I was starting to think the same. How do you feel about the higher contrast?
    I will soon also update the Black. Cheers!
  created: '2011-01-31 08:40:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: When you say higher contrast, have you thinned the horizontals? The whole
    thing is a little bit lighter all over, right? If you build a multiple master
    you won't have to redraw everything, you'll just have to select an 'instance'
    that suits you relative to the serif version. Question, do you want the same blackness
    to each corresponding weight in sans and serif?
  created: '2011-02-04 20:45:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "It is a bit lighter al over, yes, I thinned all verticals. I know it's not
    the most efficient way, but I prefer to redraw everything, because I always catch
    a few issues on the way. I do want the weights to have the same blackness. However,
    I won't be able to go as far with the serif as I can with the Sans. So the darkest
    in the Serif will propably be extrabold, while the sans goes up to Black.\r\n\r\nI
    uploaded an update above, without the soft edges, with adjusted Caps (contrast
    same as lowercase now). The B is completely redrawn.\r\n\r\nFurthermore I just
    updated the serif. I also removed the soft edges there, making it a more centro/calluna
    like font. I think it's a huge improvement, hop you agree! Still no caps there
    though.\r\n\r\nI'm also working on the Black Caps, so expect an update (serif
    or sans black) soon. Cheers!"
  created: '2011-02-04 21:27:25'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think the ear on /g/ isn't quite there. Its relationship to the upper bowl
    seems inorganic; and/or maybe it's just too long, as Trevor suggested earlier.
  created: '2011-02-04 21:40:11'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes, you're right. However, if I make it any smaller it'll just become an
    ugly thingie at text size. Working on it =D
  created: '2011-02-04 21:47:14'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g-pict_4443.jpg]\r\n\r\nbetter?"
  created: '2011-02-04 21:52:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "As far as contrast is concerned, I like the numerals, esp. /zero/ for contrast
    (you may not have changed that! I think you've gone too thin on the horizontals
    so it now looks to me more like a serif with the serifs removed and less like
    a sans.\r\n\r\nI'm not a massive fan of the thinning stems on the /d/, /m/, /n/,
    /p/, /r/, /u/. Not sure you've nailed that yet.\r\n\r\nUpper terminal on /c/ too
    thick, lower terminal too thin. This will impact /a/, /e/, /f/, /s/. I wonder
    if final strokes on /c/ and /e/ need to be slightly more open.\r\n\r\nI think
    Craig's right about that /g/. Should the ear be more tapered (outwards) to echo
    the /c/? It could even take more of a lead from the arm of the /r/. The bottom
    bowl of the /g/ looks very pointy at the easternmost extremum.\r\n\r\n/v/ still
    looks a smidge too wide next to /u/.\r\n\r\nI still cannot get used to the tapered
    letters /k/, /v/, /w/. Did I mention that?\r\n\r\nThere are a number of spacing
    issues but that warrants a separate post They were less obvious when Sensato was
    looser."
  created: '2011-02-04 22:10:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "The contrast is an important factor for the look of a typeface. After a couple
    of years I came to the conlusion that my style is somewhat stiff, arrogant, yet
    elegant. Like a bitchy model. Contrast is mostly just a matter of taste, and I
    like it the way it is now. It looks more elegant and better for display use now.
    However, do not fear, the old contrast is too good to throw away, so I think I'll
    just make a different typeface out of it in the future. You're right that I didn't
    change the contrast in /zero/.\r\n\r\n\"I'm not a massive fan of the thinning
    stems on the /d/, /m/, /n/, /p/, /r/, /u/. Not sure you've nailed that yet.\"\r\nYes,
    that certainly deserves a revision. Since I started on the serif it bothered me.\r\n\r\nYou're
    probably also right about the terminals.\r\n\r\nHave you seen the pict of the
    g above. Does that look any better?\r\n\r\nYes, now that you say so, v is too
    wide indeed.\r\n\r\nI'll try to 'detaper' the tapered letters.\r\n\r\nThe spacing
    is all inDesign's optical function, which isn't perfect.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-05 11:12:17'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Uploaded an update. I think I fixed most of the issues you pointed out Nick,
    let me know if I'm wrong. The g is still a bit pointy, but I quite like it this
    way. Cheers.
  created: '2011-02-05 21:57:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Hi Jasper, part of the charm of the original Sensato was the pointiness.
    The chamfered terminals seem to work against that. I just think the terminals
    were a little bulky. I don't think the cuts you have made are working. Worth trying
    though.\r\n\r\nThought I'd get a bit more detailed on feedback again, hope you
    don't mind.\r\n\r\n/a/ wonder if the overhang top left is too much. Lower junction
    with stem is light next to upper junction of /b/.\r\n\r\n/b/ lower junction of
    /b/ is very black. Upper junction is good.\r\n\r\n/c/ if you take the upper extremum
    of the inside curve out towards the next point up from the one it currently goes
    to the inside curve will be a whole lot nicer even if the terminal is a lot lighter.\r\n\r\n/d/
    see /b/ for blackness at junction. I think making the angle on the stems more
    vertical and the angle of the base of the stem more horizontal may help (and give
    it slightly more thickness which I think it may need.\r\n\r\n/e/ leans forward
    whereas /c/ leans back a little. I may be imagining that!\r\n\r\n/f/ love the
    angles involved in the crossbar.\r\n\r\n/g/ ear much improved, agreed Craig? Could
    still go a touck deeper.\r\n\r\n/h/ was always strong.\r\n\r\n/i/ tittle very
    slightly heavy.\r\n\r\n/j/ see /i/ for tittle comment. Would the tail coming less
    far to the left help with a slightly gentler curve?\r\n\r\n/k/ overflaring.\r\n\r\n/m/
    see /d/ stem comment applies.\r\n\r\n/n/ strong like /h/ but /d/ stem comment
    applies. \r\n\r\n/o/ good.\r\n\r\n/p/ see /d/. /q/ see /b/\r\n\r\n/r/ see /d/
    re stems. Ear/arm beautiful.\r\n\r\n/s/ see /c/ for comment about terminals (and
    initial paragraph of this post).\r\n\r\n/t/ top leans forward a touch too much.\r\n\r\n/u/
    see /n/\r\n\r\n/v/ width better now. very slight overflaring (I know you want
    some flare).\r\n\r\n/w/ strokes 1 and 3 could be darker/thicker.\r\n\r\n/x/ and
    /y/ good.\r\n\r\n/z/ top horizontal touch thin (maybe bottom horizontal too thin
    too). You want optically equal, right?\r\n\r\n/A/ overflaring (am I boring you?)\r\n\r\n/B/
    interesting curves. Bottom left corner too thick on horizontal stroke. Looks heavier
    to me than /A/\r\n\r\n/C/ see /c/\r\n\r\n/D/ see /B/ for bottom left comment.\r\n\r\n/E/
    arms thin (like /z/) especially compared to horizontals of /B/ and /D/. I thin
    the problem is the /D/ and /B/, not the /E/.\r\n\r\n/F/ see /E/ on arms. Lower
    arm could stand going south a touch.\r\n\r\n/G/ would make the final upward stroke
    cut off horizontally rather than angular which doesn't appear elsewhere in the
    upper case.\r\n\r\n/H/, /I/ fine.\r\n\r\n/J/ see /j/ re sweep of the curve.\r\n\r\n/K/
    see /k/\r\n\r\n/L/ fine.\r\n\r\n/M/ great, any reason why the central apex doesn't
    quite reach the floor (that comment may apply to the /w/ and /W/ too.\r\n\r\n/N/
    right foot causing me trouble (as /G/)\r\n\r\n/O/ fine.\r\n\r\n/P/ not quite getting
    it but can't put my finger on it.\r\n\r\n/Q/ fine.\r\n\r\n/R/ does the central
    portion need to echo /B/ more or vice versa?\r\n\r\n/S/ see /s/\r\n\r\n/T/ good.\r\n\r\n/U/
    could be a touch wider?\r\n\r\n/V/ see /v/\r\n\r\n/W/ see /w/ but only on stroke
    3.\r\n\r\n/X/ and /Y/ fine.\r\n\r\n/Z/ leaning backwards compared to /z/.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2011-02-06 21:18:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Yes I agree the /g/ ear is better.\r\nNick's eye is excellent so take his
    generous advice to heart!\r\n\r\nTo me, the glyph in need of most work now is
    definitely /B/. Look at some other /B/s and maybe consider a fresh start. And
    after that some other curved caps: /D/G/R/. And I guess /S/ falls rightward and
    /C/ may be too thick at its thickest, so maybe its \"all curved caps\"!\r\n\r\nAs
    for the chamfering, it adds a bit of refinement at display sizes but doesn't help
    -- maybe in fact hurts -- at text sizes, I think."
  created: '2011-02-06 21:43:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>Nick's eye is excellent...\r\n\r\nNow who's being generous? There's a
    thread about myopia somewhere where I confess how blind I actually am! I think
    it was to do with which of one's eyes is dominant (which may or may not affect
    one's ability to design balanced glyphs). Remember that one? Have considered laser
    treatment for short-sightedness but not an option currently! I just realised that
    my right eye is dominant but more myopic, am I normal? I digress.\r\n\r\nKeep
    going, Jasper. Accents? \r\n\r\nInD doesn't do a bad auto-job on spacing but I'm
    confident you could do a better one!\r\n\r\nN"
  created: '2011-02-06 22:39:14'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "@Nick: \"Hope you don't mind\" The more, the better! I'm working on it right
    now.\r\n@eliason: I quite like the new B. Is it the way the two bowls join that
    bothers you, or something else?"
  created: '2011-02-07 16:04:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>Is it the way the two bowls join that bothers you, or something else?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    that especially but also the thickening at the southwest corner. I feel like the
    outer contour of the letter makes sense but the counterspaces are unhappy.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, it's just an opinion and you are free to take it or leave it! :-)"
  created: '2011-02-07 16:58:07'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Above is another update. After much testing I haven't changed much, but I
    think the texture is just a little step closer to perfection. I read both of your
    critique carefully and tried out all your suggestions, but quite often I found
    that the previous version wasn't far off. I guess, that the further I get into
    the design process, the more stubborn I'll get. Hope that doesn't stop you from
    commenting on my work ;-D. Eventhough I didn't change much I hope you can see
    the improvements I made.\r\n\r\nJasper"
  created: '2011-02-10 19:11:27'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: It's been a while, but here's another update. With some major new things included.
    The pdf remains unchanged, but have a look at the jpg pict to see what I've been
    doing all this time ;-P. As soon as I also have the caps sorted out I'll update
    the pdf. After that I'm moving on to the Black, extend the character set in all
    styles, and work on Sensato Serif now and then on the way. A very fun schedule
    as you can see! Hope you enjoy the update and any critique is, as always, much
    appreciated. Cheers!
  created: '2011-02-21 20:33:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Your four grades are looking nice.\r\n\r\nI would be wary of marketing them
    as different grades when the time comes. The top one (I'm guessing the grade for
    very small sizes) works equally well at large sizes. The last thing you want to
    do is limit sales by putting an unhelpful cue that the top one should only be
    used at small sizes, which for me is nonsense as it's the nicest one in my book.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure if you need four grades or whether three or even two are enough (as in simply
    text v display).\r\n\r\nStill don't understand your terminal (a,c,f,r,s) or stem
    (d,m,n,p,r) treatment!\r\n\r\nAre you aware of the National Trust font family?
    That has display variants. <a href=\"http://brandcentre.nationaltrust.org.uk/login/default.aspx?ReturnUrl=/Default.aspx\">This
    website</a> has a registration especially for students/journalists. \r\n\r\nN"
  created: '2011-02-25 13:59:46'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks Nick. I'm working on a grade with even lower contrast. I plan to just
    call the Sensato A, Sensato B, Sensato C, etc. I totally agree that it would be
    wrong to call them grades or optical sizes, but for now grades will do.\r\n\r\nThe
    difference between the four grades is indeed quite small. I'll have to review
    this after I've finished the new grade.\r\n\r\nIn the first grade the terminals
    on a c f r s do look slightly to large to me now, be the high contrast one really
    needs big terminals. The small chamfered part in the terminals has to stay. When
    I compare it with/without that part the choice is quite obvious to me. Might be
    a personal thing, but it's just the way it is.\r\n\r\nDoes the stem treatment
    in d m n p r look far off to you? I think I'll try to just keep it straight, comparable
    to Nota."
  created: '2011-02-25 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "How do you like this? Looks like an improvement to me. The contrast in the
    terminals on c and a is smaller and the stem treatment in n is totally redesigned.
    Offcoarse this has to be continued in similar glyphs, but it should give you some
    idea.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/terminaltreatment_4464.jpg]"
  created: '2011-02-25 16:35:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Yes, these stems are an improvement to my mind. What I think I didn't much
    like was the fact that the outside contour curved whereas the inside contour was
    dead straight with a noticeable kink due to the ink trap. This is certainly better
    but it has to work for you.\r\nThe junction becomes a challenge in heavier weights
    and some thinning of the stems may help the colour around the junction."
  created: '2011-02-25 20:57:47'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Wow! I must say that after I changed the stem treatment and the terminals
    as you suggested it looks WAY better. I don't know why I failed to see you were
    right all along, but anyway, I've seen the light! Above is a pdf of Sensato A,
    the lowest contrast version of Sensato. Hope you like it as much as I do. Cheers!
    BTW: I'm currently in a holiday period, so you can expect some more updates soon
    as I'll have much more time to work on Sensato. Just wanted to say that all you
    typophiles in this thread, and specially you Nick, did a great job in showing
    me my mistakes. This typeface would have never been where it is now without you
    guys. Once again, thanks A LOT.\r\n\r\nExpletus Sans will finally be released
    in the Google Web Font Directory in 1-2 weeks from now, so keep an eye on the
    release section on typophile!\r\n\r\nJasper =D "
  created: '2011-02-25 21:07:23'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Ohh, forgot something. The Uppercase in Sensato A are still from Sensato B,
    so focus on the lowercase for now.
  created: '2011-02-25 21:08:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: New pdf doesn't seem to be there?
  created: '2011-02-25 22:38:52'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Oops. It is now.
  created: '2011-02-26 09:39:49'
date: '2010-12-22 15:49:34'
files:
- filename: 4 grades.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/4 grades.jpg
- filename: SensatoA.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/SensatoA.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Sensato 2.0  (Sensato A updated.)

---
