---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hello everybody,\r\n\r\nI'm currently working on a text typeface so I constantly
  need to make testprints. Problem is: My inkjet printer (not even on high resolution
  paper) shows enough detail at text size. How do you guys do this? Is the laserprinter
  from the coffeeshop next corner good enough or is there some other way? Any advice/help
  is much appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance, Jasper"
comments:
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nDefinitely get a laser printer. Even a cheap one with 600 dpi
    will do the trick, but you can get some 1200 dpi printers for not too much money
    and are far better: as an alternative to my [[http://h10010.www1.hp.com/wwpc/us/en/sm/WF05a/18972-18972-3328059-14638-3328068-1137934.html|HP
    LaserJet 5200]], that I love but was expensive, for my other place I got a much
    cheaper [[http://www.brother-usa.com/Printer/modeldetail.aspx?PRODUCTID=hl5370dw|Brother
    HL-5370DW]] (249 USD) which is not great, but works fine for my purposes (printing
    proofs for text typefaces).\r\n\r\nIf you need more information about what brands,
    characteristics and models are better, you can consult some old threads [[http://www.google.com.mx/search?hl=es&client=firefox-a&hs=5yy&rls=org.mozilla%3Aen-US%3Aofficial&q=site%3Atypophile.com+laser+printer&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&oq=&gs_rfai=|here.]]\r\n\r\nGood
    luck!"
  created: '2010-12-27 19:36:14'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks! When you say it works fine. Does that mean 'fine' or 'not great for
    pictures but same as HP 5200 for text proofs'? I will have some money to invest
    in new equipment and software after Expletus is released in the Google Font Directory,
    so perhaps I should just buy a good one. If there is no noticable difference for
    text proofs, than I might as well take the cheap one.\r\n\r\nCheers, Jasper"
  created: '2010-12-27 20:33:49'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Well, I\u2019d like to show you images of the same file printed with both
    printers and in offset, but this is not possible right now. Anyway, hope this
    helps.\r\n\r\nFirst, here is an image printed with my Brother printer (originally
    scanned at 600 dpi, grayscale, no retouches made):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EspinosaBrotherprinter590px_4955.png]"
  created: '2010-12-27 23:33:32'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Same image, now printed with the HP printer (same scanning preferences than
    the first one):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EspinosaHPprinter590px_5570.png]"
  created: '2010-12-27 23:34:41'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Same image as you can see it in InDesign (PDF saved in InDesign, opened in
    Photoshop and saved as png):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EspinosaPDF590px_5408.png]"
  created: '2010-12-27 23:37:04'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Finally, here is an image of the typeface printed in offset (no retouches
    made):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EspinosaOfset590px_6059.png]"
  created: '2010-12-27 23:40:04'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: FWIW, on the first three images the typeface was set in 12 points, but the
    offset image was composed in 11 points.
  created: '2010-12-27 23:49:53'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "look at the fine line of the lower case \"d\" in all them. Looks different
    on all to me. As does the contrast within the letter-  weight of fine strokes
    to heavy ones. Wish your non-offset samples had more lower-case letters.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    nice font."
  created: '2010-12-28 00:10:31'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "The other one thing I\u2019ve noted is that sometimes both printers show
    some supposed inconsistencies in stems, spacing or kerning when you print at smaller
    sizes (say 8-10 points), but most of these \u201Cproblems\u201D are solved if
    you print at bigger sizes (14-16 points), so I print bigger if I see something
    weird is going on. It happens in both printers, but the Brother printer does this
    more frequently, or at least it is more evident there."
  created: '2010-12-28 00:12:17'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>Wish your non-offset samples had more lower-case letters.\r\n\r\nI
    can do some cut & paste work to show all the lowercase letters. I\u2019ll post
    it later today.\r\n\r\n<cite>BTW, nice font\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2010-12-28 00:18:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>I can do some cut & paste work to show all the lowercase letters. I\u2019ll
    post it later today.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot for me -- I'll take the offset proofs as
    evidence. The problem with laser printers is as you say, at least when smaller
    sizes are used. I have no great experience with evaluating larger sizes on a laser
    printer. \r\n\r\nOne thing I have noticed though, is if you optimize character
    fit at a larger size, it will be wrong for text-size settings. An old friend of
    mine use to try, occasionally, to get one of the 18-point master Linotype photocomp
    fonts to work for text. In those days, all you could do with those proprietary
    fonts was to kern them. Every damn letter pair with one of those 18-point masters.\r\n\r\nAs
    a compositor, I have a lot of experience with laser proofs for text settings.
    Kerning, fit, even sometimes the characters themselves will be different from
    the final offset printing. If we're really working over a font, all the work before
    that first offset book is considered \"preliminary.\""
  created: '2010-12-28 01:00:47'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "Well, I did it already, so here you can see the proofs of Espinosa Nova.
    The first one is from the Brother printer, the second one from the HP.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lowercase_Brother_HP_4186.png]\r\n\r\nPlease
    note that this was done by \u201Cmanual\u201D cut & pasting, so don\u2019t expect
    consistence in spacing or even baselines. It is just for comparing letterforms."
  created: '2010-12-28 01:19:29'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>One thing I have noticed though, is if you optimize character fit at
    a larger size, it will be wrong for text-size settings.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely right.
    So I tend to start with smaller sizes for the general fitting and the first kerning
    proofs, and then I move back and forth to larger sizes just to be sure I am not
    dealing with false problems derived from the limited printer capabilities when
    it comes to smaller point sizes.\r\n\r\n<cite>Kerning, fit, even sometimes the
    characters themselves will be different from the final offset printing.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    right again. Anyway, most of us don\u2019t have an offset machine at our disposal
    for every single project, so we must find reliable substitutes \u2013 at an affordable
    price, if it is possible.\r\n\r\n@1966type: One more thing: in part, the HP printer
    was pricey because it can print in tabloid \u2013 which was a good decision at
    that time since I was composing a magazine bigger than legal size. You may find
    some other good & cheaper options by HP (or any other company, for that matter)."
  created: '2010-12-28 01:43:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The laser printer syndrome is inescapable when it comes to rounding decimals.
    There is no replacement for  high-rez film output. You can't even find a place
    that does Linotronic output anymore :-(\r\nLaser printers are, however, better
    than inkjets for many reasons, speed, quality, and cost come to mind. Injets just
    eat ink cartridges (which end up costing way more than an economical laser printer).\r\n\r\n@Cristobal:
    Your Espinosa Nova still looks quite spectacular!"
  created: '2010-12-28 01:59:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>most of us don\u2019t have an offset machine at our disposal for every
    single project, so we must find reliable substitutes \u2013 at an affordable price,
    if it is possible.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile it would mean a delay in releasing the
    font, if it is a good text font, I'd bet you could get an book interior designer
    to specify it for a book. Most would do that for a free license for the font.
    From that point on, it is straight production right up to the final book. Once
    F&Gs are approved, the publisher usually has no more use for them; there are your
    proofs, in an unbound form.\r\n\r\nAs you have shown, you can get quite close
    with laser proofs. If the printing is decent, one book printed offset should let
    you get the final refinements. I suppose you could even have an early release
    or a beta version of a font, either at a discounted price, or with the offer to
    replace it when the final work is done.\r\n\r\nEdit: Chris, I agree about ink
    jet printers for type. For photos, they are much better than laser printers. We
    use to have to do a new (ICC) profile for the laser printer once a day to do proofs
    for images -- or more often, if the damn thing got hot. The ink jet will hold
    a profile for a long time."
  created: '2010-12-28 02:19:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "For text sizes, I do think it is very important to look at the final output
    as much as possible. There was, fortunately, a place near me that did a linotronic
    output on \"rc paper\", so I could see it when I was testing Williams Caslon text.
    I still held my breath when I first looked at its actual use in Boston Magazine,
    small size on slick paper. It worked, to my great relief. I think it also works
    pretty well in my new book, on at 11 point on rougher paper, but I'm a very prejudiced
    judge, of course.\r\n\r\nI don't have time this week, but maybe next week I could
    do some scans of laser vs print with comparisons. I'm interested in the comparison
    myself. I'm hoping that I can \"tune\" my Xante 1200 enough to match print fairly
    well.  "
  created: '2010-12-28 03:11:45'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>I don't have time this week, but maybe next week I could do some scans
    of laser vs print with comparisons. I'm interested in the comparison myself. I'm
    hoping that I can \"tune\" my Xante 1200 enough to match print fairly well.\r\n\r\nLooking
    forward! Now, I think the point would be to tune the laser printer <em>before</em>
    the offset comes in, so you can trust in your home-made proofs while you are designing.
    I am saying this because different offset machines can give different results,
    so it is a never-ending story."
  created: '2010-12-28 03:48:30'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>if it is a good text font, I'd bet you could get an book interior designer
    to specify it for a book\r\n\r\nRight again. Actually, the offset image that I
    posted is from a book set with a trial font of the Regular (and a primitive version
    of the Italic, not shown in the image). But the result of the Regular was good
    enough for me, so I decided not to do any change, while the Italic was at an early
    stage so it was not so useful after all for identifying \u201Cfinal improvements\u201D.
    Probably my problem is that I want to finish* the Regular weight before I start
    with the Italic, and only when I have both the Regular and the Italic I go for
    bolder weights, so if I ask for someone to use my Regular trial font I don\u2019t
    even have a working small family to offer by then (well, you can always propose
    substitutes for the missing fonts, but this is not ideal). So, while I think it
    is a very valuable resource if it is available (as it happened with Fondo, a custom
    font that I made some years ago for a publishing house with his own press), I
    find that I would need this kind of offset trials more often than my speed to
    get projects <em>ad hoc</em> but, as I said, this is probably because of my not-so-efficient
    workflow.\r\n\r\n*This is just a way of talking, of course."
  created: '2010-12-28 03:51:33'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: '@Chris: Thanks again! I am very glad you like it.'
  created: '2010-12-28 03:54:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bits and pieces . . .\r\n\r\nIn point of fact, we have a Xante 1200, but
    it is just too expensive to operate. There is no non-factory service where we
    are, so you have to ship it in for service. Factory toner is expensive as well.
    There were also some curves programmed into the machine which made coming up with
    ICC profiles difficult, but we did overcome that. Still, if the Xante 1200 works
    well, and you have no access to offset printing, I suppose these aren't overwhelming
    obstacles. But I remain unconvinced that any electostatic, powder toner on paper
    system can approach a *system* (total) resolution of close to 1200 dpi (1/Rt =
    1/R1 + 1/R2 + 1/R3  + . . . 1/Rn). \r\n\r\nI've seen short-run books printed both
    by offset press and digital press where I can tell the difference between offset
    press and the digital press three feet away, where I can't even read the type.
    Usually it is cheaper to go offset around 500 copies, but some printers are investing
    in digital presses because it is easier to get the images right. Talk about the
    horse and cart!\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nYes, if you don't have both a roman and an
    italic in pretty good shape, it will be hard to talk a designer into using your
    fonts for a book.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI am going to mention Espinosa Nova to a
    couple of our clients who do a number of books on Mexican history. University
    press budgets are terribly constrained just now, but I think it would be a useful
    purchase for them."
  created: '2010-12-28 05:44:14'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Ok I've done a lot of searching and realised what I need just costs too much.
    If I buy a cheaper one now I'll buy a good one in a few years, so it would be
    a waste. I'm gonna have a look at some copyshops and just ask them what kind of
    printer they have. So far from what I read on typopgile I need: no HP, true postscript,
    Xante is best. \r\nam i right?"
  created: '2010-12-28 09:31:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Charles, I haven't had a problem with repair of my Xante 1200. The only thing
    mine has needed is new rollers, and those I installed myself\u2014not that difficult.
    The toner costs more, but I think lasts longer. What is the meaning of your \"Rt\"
    etc. in your formula?\r\n\r\nI really don't know what is best, as I don't have
    a side by side comparison on resolution at small sizes. Xante followed up with
    the 4G, which has 2400 resolution, and I believe does approach print, but is very
    expensive. The more recent Xante machines are still more expensive film setters,
    I believe. "
  created: '2010-12-28 13:00:53'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>Ok I've done a lot of searching and realised what I need just costs
    too much [\u2026] So far from what I read on typophile I need: no HP, true postscript,
    Xante is best.\r\n\r\nXante is way too expensive for me as well, but I am curious
    about these comparisons. Both Charles and William have a Xante, so I could send
    them a PDF of my file so they can print and scan it, just to add their printer
    to the comparison\u2026 Or I could print a PDF with Williams Caslon on my HP (the
    Brother is not near at this moment), if William Berkson send me the file he is
    going to use for his printings\u2026\r\n\r\nAnother suggestion before you buy:
    you probably have a couple of friends with access to a laser printer at their
    offices or something. Get a book set with a typeface you own and know well. Try
    to recreate one of its pages. Save it as a PDF (it would be better if you have
    access to the original PDF, of course) and give it to your friends. If possible,
    provide them with a paper similar to the one used for the book. Compare the results
    with a scanner or a magnifying glass."
  created: '2010-12-28 14:55:00'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>I am going to mention Espinosa Nova to a couple of our clients\r\n\r\nThe
    mention itself will make me feel proud, let alone if they finally use my typeface.
    Thank you!"
  created: '2010-12-28 15:02:56'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I'm only 14 and still in highschool, so I'm not really in the world of graphic
    and typedesign. I have one friend who is quite a good graphic designer though.
    I already send him an email but he hasn't responded yet. Good luck with Espinosa
    nova!
  created: '2010-12-28 17:10:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Bill, our laser printers are asked to run upwards of 2 million copies before
    we spend another $2,000 to outright replace them. Of course, the service work
    adds to the total cost. Our (older) HP LaserJet 8100 and Xerox Phaser 5500 have
    both passed that test. The Xante 4G is sitting on the floor, not working . . .\r\n\r\nWe
    stopped photocopying back when it occurred to us we could make all the proof sets
    as originals just about as cheaply as running one set of lasers, then photocopying
    them. That meant if a publisher wanted 5 sets of proof, all were run as originals
    on the laser printer. Much better quality that way, and less labor to boot.\r\n\r\nNow
    that more and more publishers are asking for PDFs as the only form of proof, I
    suppose the laser printers will get less use. The reason for the switch to PDFs
    is shipping costs, of course. Personally, I hate making and dealing with Printers
    Queries on PDFs.\r\n\r\nR(subscript)t is Total Resolution. It's reciprocal is
    the sum of the reciprocals of all the elements. You can have one element way up
    there and the effect on total resolution won't be much. But if it is the right
    one, it does let you legally advertise a high resolution for a machine.\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nChristobal, how strongly do you feel about that wide \"v\"?\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\n1996type -- hang in there. Get your proofs as best you can. We all
    have a huge number of failures, and some of them come from having to learn how
    our equipment fools us. Some of us even have to learn the same thing two or three
    times before it sinks in (blush). "
  created: '2010-12-28 17:59:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">2 million copies\r\n\r\nWow, that's a different story. My AW 12000 says
    it's printed about 40 thousand copies, and that's over some years. "
  created: '2010-12-28 21:03:15'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>Christobal, how strongly do you feel about that wide \"v\"?\r\n\r\nVery
    strong. I mean, though I had a lot of other projects in the meantime, Espinosa
    took me nine years to develop. I could continue moving nodes for all eternity,
    but at some point I decided to stop so I could release it and move on to the next
    project. I am pretty sure that some details won\u2019t please everyone and, as
    a matter of fact, other persons have mentioned me other letters they don\u2019t
    like. But so far the balance of the comments has been very very positive (and
    obtained two certificates of excellence this year!), so I must think very well
    if a change is really required.\r\n\r\nAt some point I am going to add more diacritics,
    tweak some minor things and probably add a couple of new tricks, but changing
    the \u201Cv\u201D is not in my list. However, I am always open to make this kind
    of customization work if a client asks for it. And my EULA also gives to the user
    the permission to make this sort of changes by himself or by third parties, if
    they contact me in advance."
  created: '2010-12-29 06:34:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but at some point I decided to stop so I could release it and move on...\"\r\n\r\nBravo,
    Cristobal! That is the spirit!"
  created: '2010-12-29 15:25:05'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>but at some point I decided to stop so I could release it and move
    on...</cite>\r\n\r\nOh hell yes. But If I can get a customer to pick up on it,
    I'll rework the kerning -- always. Even Mathew Carter's fonts. Most everthing
    he has is spot on to my taste, but I add to it. You never know when you might
    have to set \"Ygraine.\"\r\n\r\nThe reason I asked was to see if it would bother
    you to have the \"v\" changed, not that you should do it. If you want to see before
    saying OK, that's fine. But with that, it's time to get off a public forum & do
    private emails."
  created: '2010-12-29 20:39:53'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>If you want to see before saying OK, that's fine. But with that, it's
    time to get off a public forum & do private emails\r\n\r\nYes, we can do private
    mails anytime you want. Just for the record: if you think that the \u201Cv\u201D
    or the kerning or anything else must be modified you can do it and I will not
    question your decisions, so actually I don\u2019t really need to see what do you
    do within the font (although I\u2019d like to, because it interests me, but I
    am not going to discuss with you if it is pertinent or not). All I am asking is
    to know what fixes are you planning, so I can get an idea about what the people
    think that must be changed and perhaps, if I perceive that the same thing is desirable
    for a number of people, add it to my list of future \u201Cofficial fixes\u201D.\r\n\r\n[It
    seems that this thread has gone off-topic\u2026 Sorry about that.]"
  created: '2010-12-29 21:40:30'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 1996type, buy an average laser printer, because you will need constant proofing,
    and most of it won't be crucial. Anyway, one can learn printer's behaviours at
    some level, compairing them with the screen and good printouts, with the time.
  created: '2010-12-31 08:39:44'
- author:
    name: Grrrben
    picture: 112992
  body: "Beste Jasper,\r\n\r\nA friend and I both own a used Xante AW1200 and we're
    both happy with it (although it has some issues, but which printer hasn't any?).
    We both found one at <a href=\"http://www.marktplaats.nl\">marktplaats.nl</a>
    for not so much money, though the toner is indeed a little expensive. I just had
    a look at marktplaats.nl and noticed also today there're a couple offered.\r\n\r\nWay
    better than inkjet but of course it's not offset, although a lower toner level
    comes pretty close, rather than a full toner cartridge.\r\n\r\nBy the way... connecting
    directly onto a Mac with the latest OS is problematic (USB), but it works fine
    if you connect the printer to your router (LAN).  \r\n\r\nSucces, groet!\r\nGerben"
  created: '2011-01-06 12:57:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Hey Gerben,\r\n\r\nThanks a lot. I had a look at marktplaats.nl and there
    is one offered for just 25 euro in Rotterdam (where I live), so I think I'll have
    a look at it. \u20AC25 seems a bit too cheap, but it's a small effort to just
    drop by and have a look at it.\r\n\r\nGroeten,\r\nJasper"
  created: '2011-01-07 16:41:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>\u20AC25 seems a bit too cheap\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWhen buying used
    printers you need to be aware that some units are sold cheap because the seller
    assumes that they will not work and are just being sold to scavenge the parts
    for use in other printers."
  created: '2011-01-07 17:27:34'
date: '2010-12-27 19:14:15'
node_type: forum
title: Test prints

---
