---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "I was born Gereformeerd. Gereformeerd is or was in my youth a denomination
  within the Dutch Protestant orbit stemming from the Calvinistic response to 15th-century
  Catholicism. While keeping our distance from denominational expressions of Christianity
  my immediate family and I still keep to some of the observances ensconced in the
  wider Christian tradition. For Christmas I asked for and received copies of Stanislas
  Dehaene\u2019s recent book <em>Reading in the Brain: the Science and Evolution of
  a Human Invention</em>, and Oliver Sacks\u2019s <em>The Mind's Eye</em>. <em>The
  Mind's Eye</em> describes, among other things, the case of Howard Engel, the Canadian
  detective story writer who lost his ability to read due to a lesion caused by a
  stroke, in what Dehaene, the author of the other book, and his research associates
  have dubbed the Visual Word Form Area of the brain (VWFA). In <em>Reading in the
  Brain</em> the VWFA is called \u201CThe Brain's Letterbox\u201D. <em>Reading in
  the Brain</em> describes: how we read; the VWFA; the neuronal basis for reading;
  the evolution of writing; learning to read; the dyslexic brain; reading and symmetry;
  the author\u2019s own pet theory of neuronal recycling; and it speculates about
  neuronal recycling as the basis of culture.\r\n\r\nAlong the way Dehaene forcefully
  (his word) blasts (my word) the Whole Language approach to reading instruction,
  mostly on account of the apparently well-documented damage it\u2019s \"Whole-Word\"
  instructional bias has caused to literacy. The bug-a-boo is the approach\u2019s
  sidelining of the systematic inculcation of phonemic awareness. \"Cognitive psychology
  directly refutes any notion of teaching via a 'global\" or \"whole language\" method.\"
  Dehaene incidentally keeps his description of this method vague.\r\n\r\nI haven\u2019t
  finished reading the entire book, but noticed in passing that, as part of this critique,
  Dehaene mentions that the emphasis on the global shape of words \u201Calso invaded
  the world of typography, where the term \u201Cbouma\u201D (named after the Dutch
  psychologist Herman Bouma), was coined to refer to the contours of words.\u201D
  Deheane adds, \u201CIn the hope of improving readability, typographers intentionally
  designed fonts that created the most distinctive visual \u201Cboumas.\u201D His
  source for this observation is \u2014 wouldn't you know it \u2014 Kevin Larson's
  2004 \u201CThe Science of Word Recognition.\u201D\r\n\r\nI of course find this somewhat
  disappointing because the slight involves a misreading of what Bouma Shape was actually
  coined to refer to \u2014 something more than \u201Ccontour\u201D or the \u201Cglobal
  shape\u201D of words. Perhaps the slight or slam is excusable, but digging deeper
  into both the psychological literature where it originated (Insup and Martin M.
  Taylor\u2019s <em>The Psychology of Reading</em>), or Paul Saenger\u2019s <em>Space
  Between Words</em>, or the peregrinations on typophile surrounding the term might
  have induced Dehaene to explore the matter a bit more fully.\r\n\r\nThe book is
  wonderfully provocative though, and it has it\u2019s uses. In some places the language
  positively sparkles. And it has an endorsement from Oliver Sacks. Moreover, it\u2019s
  a fairly manageable and, for the most part, internally cohesive compendium of a
  host of empirical rummaging in various domains. It\u2019s also a bit of patch-work
  in places, in that there are disparities between several of the ways of seeing reading
  that Dehaene recruits to build his case. For example, Dehaene passes along the interactive
  activation model but his own local-combination detection based approach doesn\u2019t
  fully mesh with the interactive activation account\u2019s basic premises.\r\n\r\nBut
  somewhere in the section on \u201CThe Brain\u2019s Letterbox\u201D I had to take
  a break. The reason's were: 1) my ever-mounting frustration with the \u2014 to me
  \u2014 too rudimentary notion of how words are encoded in the brain \u2014 i.e.,
  according to their spellings \u2014 became insurmountable, as did 2) an intense
  feeling that I had to make a more significant concession to the parallel letter
  recognition scheme than I had felt able to make before. In other words, I felt I
  needed to rethink the \u201Cinhibition of incipient recognitions for letters\u201D
  idea I had found in Edmund Burke Huey. I felt the need to try and plot a \u201Cconvergence
  of perspectives.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe long and short of this is that my thinking is
  entering a bit of a new phase. Basically the idea is that on the new iteration of
  my scheme, categorical perception at the letter level can and does occur, but it
  doesn\u2019t normally or necessarily lead to an independent downstream labeling
  in the higher regions of the brain. This is a kind of paradox that might require
  further elaboration. A similacrum of parallel letter recognition happens, but parallel
  letter recognition as currently schematized isn\u2019t the central or foundational
  mechanism. The central mechanism remains for me the variety of \u201Cfeature analytic
  processing\u201D or \u201Csimultaneous co-activation of letter parts\u201D I tried
  to describe in the recent \u201CMonitor on Psychology\u201D thread, and prior to
  that in TypeCon Atlanta, and the central event for me remains Bill\u2019s notion
  of matrix resonance.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m thinking of starting a typophile blog page
  to describe 1) how I now see the structure of the underlying matrix \u2014 the inner
  bouma, if you will, 2) how I think it becomes established, and 3) how the connection
  with it is made in normal reading contexts. \r\n\r\nI think I might call my scheme
  \u201Cdistal ring plus proximate ring coding\u201D or some such thing. DRAPE-coding
  for short.\r\n\r\nI'll do that when I get a chance, and if my intuitions about this
  stick.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u201CIn the hope of improving readability, typographers intentionally designed
    fonts that created the most distinctive visual \u201Cboumas.\u201D \r\n\r\n1.
    Type designers, not typographers.\r\n2. Typefaces, not fonts.\r\n3. It never happened,
    pace Larson.\r\n\r\nIt's hard to take scientists' typographic ruminations seriously
    when they don't understand the most basic terminological distinctions."
  created: '2010-12-31 05:22:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"\" Deheane adds, \u201CIn the hope of improving readability, typographers
    intentionally designed fonts that created the most distinctive visual \u201Cboumas.\u201D
    His source for this observation is \u2014 wouldn't you know it \u2014 Kevin Larson's
    2004 \u201CThe Science of Word Recognition.\u201D \"\r\n\r\n...I wonder what anecdotal
    experience turned this Maltoid into a fact. What \"typographers\" did this?"
  created: '2010-12-31 09:27:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Sounds like grand Larsony to me.
  created: '2011-01-03 02:58:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'We need a new marker to collect best typophile puns :) '
  created: '2011-01-03 04:19:47'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I'm sensing a Bubblegum Crisis in here.
  created: '2011-01-03 16:19:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...typographers </em>[sic: type designers]<em> intentionally designed
    fonts that created the most distinctive visual \u201Cboumas.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe the major concern of type designers is either letter shapes or word
    shapes -- this formulation of our readability concern is simplistic, if not banal.
    We place a great deal of importance on \"fit\" -- of which letter spacing (sidebearings
    and kerning) is as important a component as glyph shape.\r\n\r\nI design typefaces
    as combinatory glyph reading systems with the goal of making individual letters
    look good as well as syllables, words, sentences and paragraphs -- at sizes from
    small body text to large display, in various media and with various text content.
    My readability concerns transcend the simple distinction that scientists have
    so far made between reading letters and reading words. \r\n\r\nI will not have
    my work reduced to the level of their understanding.\r\nIt is a gross misrepresentation."
  created: '2011-01-03 17:10:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Of course, one can go back to \"Typographical Printing-Surfaces\" to look
    at comparisons of letter outlines for differences. But the original point was
    about the \"boumas\", which is supposed to be the look of an entire word.\r\n\r\nI
    suppose that if research is to transcend the idea that words are only perceived
    as individual letters, according to their spelling... one should study people
    who read Hebrew or Arabic, where the individual letters are particularly challenging
    to read, and so being able to use context speeds things up considerably - too
    much to be ignored."
  created: '2011-01-03 17:47:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, Stanislas Dehaene puts forward a combinatorially-based hierarchical
    coding scheme that moves from oriented bars through letter fragments, case-specific
    letter shapes, and local bigrams to frequent substrings, morphemes, small words
    and beyond. He might applaud your concern to make all these things look good,
    and recruit your list as evidence for the aptness of his scheme.\r\n\r\nIn relation
    to your \u2018fit\u2019 comment, I\u2019d say the type designer and typographer
    is oriented to strengthening our immediate or everyday, ordinary, lived-experience
    of words as 1) unitary rather than broken-up or fractured; 2) internally differentiated
    but not chaotic; 3) uncrowded; 4) familiar rather than foreign, or strange; and
    5) sense-invested rather than as cryptic or meaningless things. As you say, \u201Cletter
    spacing (sidebearings and kerning) is as important a component as glyph shape\u201D
    in \u2018fit\u2019. Perhaps scientists understand this, perhaps they don\u2019t.
    But a hierarchical scheme such as Dehaene presents, with local combination detection
    as it\u2019s foundational routine and parallel letter recognition as it\u2019s
    defining mechanism, has difficulty addressing how it is that we experience words
    in this way.\r\n\r\nSo that's in part where my discomfort lies, and one of the
    things that motivates my search for a less heirarchical and less letter-based
    coding scheme. But of course, \u201Cglobal shape\u201D or \u201Couter contour\u201D
    don\u2019t do any better at addressing or lived experience of words. I want a
    coding scheme that is both richly evidence-based and addresses the lived experience
    of skilled readers."
  created: '2011-01-03 20:40:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: John [Savard], do you think the Word Superiority Effect might be larger in
    Hebrew or Arabic?
  created: '2011-01-04 00:31:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I want a coding scheme that is both richly evidence-based and addresses
    the lived experience of skilled readers.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't believe that's possible.\r\nConsider
    music, where coding has been split into categories such as tempo, pitch, timbre,
    harmony, etc.\r\nListeners can decode, concentrating on these different categories
    as they see fit.\r\nThe map is not the territory.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 01:11:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I believe there is indeed a good chance that, yes, due to both Hebrew and
    Arabic being normally written so that individual letters are considerably less
    legible (or certain pairs of letters are much harder to distinguish, to be specific)
    than with the Latin alphabet, it may well be easier to experimentally detect the
    contribution of recognizing the shape of a word as a whole in reading those languages.\r\n\r\nThe
    skepticism of other posters about being able to determine what is really going
    on when people read through the kind of clumsy experimental techniques that are
    available is justified, but, on the other hand, that is not an excuse for not
    doing what we can to at least begin to have hard evidence and quantitative measures
    which can be a solid foundation for some forms of progress.\r\n\r\nNot everything
    can be made a science instead of an art. But those things that have been changed
    from craft to engineering have yielded great progress. So if even a sliver of
    the type designer's art can be aided by science, it could well be worthwhile."
  created: '2011-01-04 03:39:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@enne_son: I think a blog is a great idea. Any chance of a slightly more
    plain-language version so you can share your ideas with those who don''t have
    a background in psychology?'
  created: '2011-01-04 14:40:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, I know the map is not the territory, but I think I\u2019ve happened
    upon a description that can address your skepticism about the powers of coding
    schemes. John, I\u2019m not sure I can produce hard evidence at the outset, or
    introduce quantitative measures without assistance, but there are tantalizing
    convergences in existing data sets. Christopher, I\u2019ll do my best.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    going to wait with my description until I\u2019ve finished reading Dehaene.\r\n\r\nAs
    a side note to my comment about Dehaene\u2019s dismissal of the Whole Language
    approach to reading instruction let me say that, on my view the testing of and
    systematic inculcation of phonemic awareness is vitally important. It's just not
    all there is. Systematic inculcation of phonemic awareness forces the mind to
    create vectors over bigrams, syllables, morphemes and small words. This is good.
    It also tends to erect a hierarchical and dendritically complex coding architecture.
    (Dendritic, means tree-like.) This is the kind of architecture Dehaene's book
    describes. Such hierarchies can be difficult for a processing routine to navigate.
    It's basis is a decomposition into letter-wholes. A less coarse-grained, more
    elemental recoding has to happen alongside of vector-formation to make word recognition
    rapid, automatic and effortless."
  created: '2011-01-04 16:34:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Re. phonemic awareness: what are the results of reading testing on those
    who have been born completely deaf?'
  created: '2011-01-04 17:31:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When we first learn to read, we sound out syllables and check memory maps
    for similar phonic or written matches.  We also do this when we come across a
    foreign word or words new to us that are in our own language. After enough readings,
    we learn the word as well as the glyphs and then read it more quickly without
    needing so much time needed for analysis. This process never stops as long as
    you come across an unfamiliar pattern of glyphs. Read any foreign text or a technical
    jargon that you are not familiar with and you slow down, decode, compare, and
    interpret or find a source to translate what is still a mystery. I don't see how
    we are talking about an exclusive either-or situation.  The brain is much smarter
    than we give it credit for. Reductionism only works some of the time, the brain
    works all of the time, even if the answer is "I don't know that word"
  created: '2011-01-04 18:06:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Miller, P. (2010). Phonological, orthographic, and syntactic awareness and
    their relation to reading comprehension in prelingually deaf individuals: What
    can we learn from skilled readers? <em>Journal of Developmental and Physical Disabilities,
    22(6)</em>, 549\u2013580.\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong>\r\nThis study seeks
    to provide new insight into the phonemic, orthographic, and syntactic awareness
    of individuals with prelingual deafness and the way those contribute to reading.
    Two tests were used: one designed for the assessment of phonemic/orthographic
    awareness (PO/OA) and another examining reading comprehension (RC) in contexts
    where prior knowledge was either helpful or not. Participants were 83 prelingually
    deaf individuals (DIs): 21 primary school, 36 high school, and 26 university students.
    The control group consisted of 85 hearing individuals (HIs) from parallel education
    levels (29 primary school, 29 high school, 27 university). Contrary to predictions
    made by current reading theories, findings imply that the failure of DIs to develop
    sensitivity to the phonological properties of words may not underlie their reading
    difficulties. Rather, this weakness seems to reflect a processing deficit at the
    supra-lexical (sentence) level where the final meaning of single words is elaborated
    by its integration based upon syntactic (structural) knowledge.\r\n\r\nI have
    not read the paper. This is the abstract from the Web of Science database."
  created: '2011-01-04 18:57:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Christopher, I'll have to look into that some time. It\u2019s hard to imagine
    why their difficulty should be in the realm of sense-following. I wonder if that\u2019s
    because syntax in sign is different from syntax in written texts based on the
    English model of how sentences are formed.\r\n\r\nChris, your absolutely right,
    I shouldn\u2019t give the impression that it must be either / or. More likely
    it\u2019s both / and. At some point the coding schemes must intersect. The underlying
    architecture should allow for at least two routes."
  created: '2011-01-04 19:36:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '"Whole Language" meets "Hooked on Phonics" = "Now how can we still mess this
    up for kids learning to read?"'
  created: '2011-01-04 20:17:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<em>the brain works all of the time</em>\r\n \r\nSpeak for yourself!"
  created: '2011-01-04 20:35:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Well, maybe not when you are drinking heavily and curling ;-P
  created: '2011-01-04 20:55:34'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I developed the word recognition talk and paper because the people on my
    team at Microsoft (as well as other typographers and type designers) told me that
    they were designing for word shape. Here is a recent quote from p.23 of Jost Hochuli\u2019s
    2008 edition of Detail in typography:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CGiven that an adult reader\u2019s
    eye registers not individual letters but whole words, or parts of them, it is
    not surprising that words play a particularly important role in the reading process.
    With an easily readable typeface the individual letters are always designed with
    regard to their impact as parts of a word. While being clearly differentiated,
    they must be capable of fitting together as harmoniously as possible into whole
    words.\u201D</em>\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 03:13:42'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "I gave a talk at ATypI Dublin about dyslexia and what psychologists have
    learned about reading acquisition. I didn\u2019t actually tackle the whole language
    debate because it\u2019s not a debate anymore. The whole language idea for teaching
    reading was to provide a positive, reading-rich environment, and children will
    just naturally learn to read on their own. While it is certainly a good idea to
    read to your kids, it is false that kids will learn to read without direct instruction
    (some will, most won\u2019t). Kids need to learn certain precursors to reading,
    particularly letter recognition and phonemic awareness. Kids who have learned
    these skills will go on to become proficient readers, and kids that are struggling
    to read in the 2nd and 3rd grades are still poor at these skills. I hope to turn
    this talk into a paper this year.\r\n\r\nNick, the profoundly deaf struggle to
    learn to read. Conrad (1979) found that only 5 of 205 teenagers were reading at
    grade level. The 5 who were reading at grade level were the only ones able to
    detect words that were phonologically related.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 03:16:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I certainly designed Williams Caslon Text with the goal of having the letters
    make easy-to-read words. In my view\u2014and that of many type designers\u2014how
    the letters relate to one another is much of the challenge in type design. \r\n\r\nFurther,
    making letters relate to one another well I think is demonstrably important whether
    or not Peter is right about our reading in patterns of sub-letter features across
    whole words\u2014rather than than, as Kevin has held, we first resolve the word
    into identified letters.\r\n\r\n[[http://ilovetypography.com/2010/11/02/reviving-caslon-part-2-readability-affability-authority/|Or
    so I argued in the second part of my account of work on the revival.]]  \r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 03:33:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: When I first drive to a location I am not familiar with, I consult a map,
    or one of the online directions sites for detailed directions.  After I have made
    the journey enough times, I not only don't need the directions but have probably
    found a shortcut and a way to avoid traffic.  That does not mean that someone
    else may either know it like the back of his hand already or else never be able
    to find it unassisted. We have to allow for the various pathways to reading and
    not assume all readers are possessed of the exact same knowledge or way of achieving
    it.  My wife MUCH prefers a GPS that spouts out "Turn left in one tenth of a mile"
    to my preference of a map (or at least street names mentioned instead of discreet
    distances). Luckily, I can still find maps and she can use her Garmin ;-)
  created: '2011-01-05 03:58:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Right Kevin, I think I can empathize with your motivation: it seems wrong
    to suggest that the adult reader\u2019s eye doesn\u2019t \u2014 in some form or
    other \u2014 register letters, but I wonder if you think that when Jost Hochuli
    says \u2018whole words\u2019, what this contains for him can be adequately circumscribed
    by terms like \u201Cenvelope\u201D, or \u201Coutline\u201D, or \u201Cglobal shape\u201D,
    or locutions like \u201Cthe raw pattern of x-height neutral, ascending and descending
    shapes?\u201D Is this in effect what the typographers you consulted and Jost Hoculi
    were anxious to convey?\r\n\r\nAnd if it isn\u2019t, or can\u2019t, can a marshaling
    of evidence that shows that \u201Cenvelope\u201D, or \u201Coutline\u201D, or \u201Cglobal
    shape\u201D, or \u201Cthe raw pattern of x-height neutral, ascending and descending
    shapes\u201D are in fact not used actually falsify Hochuli\u2019s claim?\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not sure how to properly operationalize \u2018whole words\u2019, but it seems
    wrong to me to do this with the terms I've place inside double quotation marks.\r\n\r\nThe
    writings of James Townsend and Michael Wenger lead us to ask: \u201CIs it possible
    to translate, [pe (their words, with my insertion here): within the realm of perceptual
    processes in reading], an inchoate notion of holistic or gestalt processing into
    a set of more precisely specified possibilities based on the characteristics of
    information processing?\u201D Townsend and Wenger\u2019s try to do this (witin
    the neural network domain) in terms of process architectures, stopping rules,
    degrees of process independence and process capacity. We might be well-served
    by taking a close look at how they try to do and test this."
  created: '2011-01-05 04:30:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "More precisely Bill, reading \u2014 or coding \u2014 for the pattern of sub-letter
    features across whole words connects us with whole words as lettered things. This
    is so because of the structure of the matrix representation of the words. \r\n\r\nAs
    I said above, I\u2019m going to wait with my description of that until I\u2019ve
    finished reading Dehaene."
  created: '2011-01-05 04:50:04'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20961169\">Hebrew Brain vs.
    English Brain: Language Modulates the Way It Is Processed</a> -- Bick AS, Goelman
    G, Frost R.\r\nHebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.jewishjournal.com/science_and_technology/article/english_hebrew_and_the_brains_language-reading_process_20101130/\">English,
    Hebrew and the brain\u2019s language-reading process</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 06:02:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Kevin> quoting.., \"With an easily readable typeface the individual letters
    are always designed with regard to their impact as parts of a word.\"\r\n\r\nLook.
    One of the fundamental, no... foundational principles of readability design, in
    the realm of optical trickery,  is the modest to excessive exaggeration of the
    lowercase ht. relative to all other hts. Now, the accompanying ascenders and descenders
    are shortened in this process. That's not an option, it's a requirement, and this
    most assuredly has a clear impact on diminishing the uniqueness of word shape.
    Thus, anyone who says what's quoted above is not saying it right, or worse, not
    doing it right, or even worse simply not a designer of readable  faces and just
    blabbing for gold.\r\n\r\nMaybe, this Hochuli fellow was thinking of headline
    fonts, where indeed the design  of larger size provides spacial freedom to wander
    more in word shape via letter forming, but not in design for readability. On a
    much larger scale, I still wonder how those hundreds of millions of  letterless
    \ Chinese get any reading done at all, without word shape recognition.      "
  created: '2011-01-05 09:35:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Legibility and readability are two different things, and legibility is easier
    to measure than readability - as others have noted in this forum in other discussions.\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    like the Linotype newspaper face Corona, or the 4 3/4 size of Times Roman designed
    for what the British call \"Newspaper Smalls\", known as Claritas, most definitely
    exaggerate the x-height. This allows letters like a, c, e, and o to be distinguished
    from each other.\r\n\r\nBut once letters have a large enough size so that legibility
    is not the issue, instead of going from 11 point Times Roman to 14 point Times
    Roman, going to 11 point Times Roman with three points of leading is a more reasonable
    thing to do. (Admittedly, three points of leading is a bit much, unless the lines
    are quite long.)\r\n\r\nBetter yet, though, would be to <em>use</em> that empty
    space, and make the ascenders and descenders longer.\r\n\r\nMost English words
    can't be distinguished from each other purely on the basis of their pattern of
    ascenders and descenders. So if a lowercase \"e\" looks like a <em>dot</em> in
    the point size in use, reading will not take place. So \"word shape\" will have
    to involve delving a bit further down into the word, and it will only be a help
    to reading, not the main engine of reading."
  created: '2011-01-05 12:33:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks David H. for summary of the paper on Hebrew vs English reading. It
    makes sense that Hebrew readers process via a common root path, since the roots
    are so much of an organizing principle in Hebrew. In English we have such a mixture
    of sources we are most often unaware of roots. I don't know whether this implies
    anything with regard to the issue of letter recognition first or not. That's because
    in Hebrew root and meaning usually, but not always go together. \r\n\r\nDavid
    B., Peter's theory does not privilege extenders over other letter features, and
    their length is not the main thing. This idea that whole word pattern is just
    a matter of ascenders and descenders was an oversimplification of the idea of
    word pattern. In Peter's view it was a straw man used to dismiss a promising line
    of research, which he has taken up.  "
  created: '2011-01-05 14:34:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Still, Bill, reading David Berlow and John Savard\u2019s latest posts, I
    think Kevin might have been right in thinking there was something important to
    respond to. We users of the English language, including those of us who deal with
    type quite readily take terms used to evoke ideas of the whole word pattern (as
    you say) as referring to what's contained in the simplifications. No doubt the
    ambiguity of the word \u201Cshape\u201D plays a role in this."
  created: '2011-01-05 15:06:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>One of the fundamental, no... foundational principles of readability
    design, in the realm of optical trickery, is the modest to excessive exaggeration
    of the lowercase ht. relative to all other hts.</em>\r\n\r\nIMO this is a \"legibility\"
    requirement.\r\nConsider this model of the reading process:\r\n\r\n1. Sentence
    structure (purely textual) suggests a set of options for the upcoming word.\r\n2.
    Word shape narrows the field.\r\n3. However, at small size, legibility is more
    important to fine tune the exact coding, as more acuity is needed to distinguish
    letters precisely, for instance, differentiating between \"e\", \"a\" and \"s\".
    Therefore x ht is made larger for small text."
  created: '2011-01-05 17:29:50'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, for your #2, I'd say <em>the compilation of ensemble or summary statistics
    in parafoveal vision</em> narrows the field. Both terms occur in the perceptual
    psychophysical literature on object perception and crowding, and in some cases
    reading. Summary statistics capture more than information about the outer contour
    of the word, but not as much or as accurately as the information made available
    by \u2018sharp-rendering\u2019 in foveal vision. This is shown by a juxtaposition
    of the tests that Kevin recruits to argue that \u201Cletters are used,\u201D with
    tests that show words in parafoveal vision are susceptible to \u201Csilent substitution\u201D
    [Denis Pelli]. But in the case of words, summary statistics render precise identity
    indeterminate.\r\n\r\nIn relation to your #3, I\u2019d drop the word \u2018legibility\u2019
    and say <em>access to role-unit level information</em> is important to fine tune
    the exact coding. This is as true at normal sizes, where acuity is not a problem,
    as at small sizes. At small sizes, it's not that more acuity is needed, but that
    there are thresholds to discrimination affordance, which can to some degree be
    addressed by fiddling with x-height.\r\n\r\nRole-unit level information is letter-part
    level information, that is information about the shapes of counters and individual
    strokes."
  created: '2011-01-05 18:49:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>Deheane adds, \u201CIn the hope of improving readability, typographers
    intentionally designed fonts that created the most distinctive visual \u201Cboumas.\u201D
    His source for this observation is \u2014 wouldn't you know it \u2014 Kevin Larson's
    2004 \u201CThe Science of Word Recognition.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nKevin: <em>I developed
    the word recognition talk and paper because the people on my team at Microsoft
    (as well as other typographers and type designers) told me that they were designing
    for word shape.</em>\r\n\r\nType designers have historically made a lot of more
    or less voodoo claims about how they work -- e.g. 'designing the white not the
    black' --, especially then they are to be quoted in print. The disconnect between
    how people claim to work, or how they think they work, and how they are actually
    observed to work can be considerable.\r\n\r\nWords are the primary context of
    letters, so of course when we design letters we look at them in words, and we
    adjust them to produce words that look good. We also look at them in sentences,
    and paragraphs, and pages of text, because these are also contexts of letters,
    and we want the typeface to look good in all these contexts, and different contexts
    reveal different things about the design. For instance, the slightly-too-heavy
    left diagonal on a letter v might not reveal itself when looking at some individual
    words, but will reveal itself in page tests.\r\n\r\nI can't honestly recall any
    colleagues claiming to design for word <em>shape,</em> in the sense of word envelope.
    Rather, I reckon we might reasonably claim to design for words, in Peter's excellent
    phrase, as \u2018lettered things\u2019. And by the same token we design for sentences,
    for paragraphs, for pages...."
  created: '2011-01-05 20:58:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I can't honestly recall any colleagues claiming to design for word shape,
    in the sense of word envelope.\"\r\n\r\nI quite agree. I know I tend to design
    for letterfit with left and right neighbor.  Typically, the same kind of groupings
    into classes we use for kerning, tend to yield what I will call \"shape groups\"
    for fitting and sidebearings.  I, and others, make necklaces of glyphs that put
    each glyph in position with all of its potential neighbors as well as control
    characters to check fit.  After coming to some reasonable satisfaction with this
    process, long texts of various languages are set and printed at various sizes
    looking for fit, color, readability, and even aesthetics. This is not just a word
    outline, it is permutations of all players to seek problems out and solve them."
  created: '2011-01-05 22:17:01'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "\"I can't honestly recall any colleagues claiming to design for word shape,
    in the sense of word envelope.\"\r\n\r\nThat is fantastic if most typographers
    and type designers don't actually believe in simple word shape, then we\u2019re
    in agreement. I know I come across arguments that suggest that this isn\u2019t
    always the case. The page after the Hochuli quote above shows a word (Alphabet)
    with an envelope drawn around the word.\r\n\r\nJames Felici\u2019s 2003 book The
    Complete Manual of Typography shows three images of the bottom half of words,
    the top half of words, and unoccluded words: <em>\u201COur comprehension of the
    text we read is based largely on the tops of lowercase letters, the bottom halves
    consisting mostly of \u201Clegs and feet.\u201D The top sample here is impossible
    to decipher, but the middle sample is comprehensible. Rendering those shapes into
    patterns enables us to recognize whole words and phrases at a glance.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 22:48:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I can''t speak for typographers, Kevin: they may believe that the little
    men behind our eyes read for us and whisper the text to our inner ear.'
  created: '2011-01-05 23:36:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u201COur comprehension of the text we read is based largely on the tops
    of lowercase letters, the bottom halves consisting mostly of 'legs and feet.'
    \"\r\n\r\n'...and only believe some of what you read'\r\n\r\nRolf Rehe's1974 book
    \"Typography, How to Make it Most Legible\" [the one with the crashing over-tracked
    Helvetica cover] became the mantra of many design educators. Page 35 shows a  word-shape
    example to describe how lowercase reads better than uppercase. There were other
    \ studies at that period in time professing the \"Top half of words\" theory.
    \ This is the period in time that spawned most of today's design professors, therefore
    the spreaders of the true WORD on what is good typography to today's young designers.
    Sadly, some of these theories which were tested to some degree, were quickly elevated
    to the level of \"GOSPEL TRUTH\" in the eyes of adjunct professors seeking tenure
    on the grounds that they were actually using Science to teach design. I guess
    some folks, including Mr Felici, still give these theories more ink than they
    deserve. When social scientists measured for the density of information in upper
    vs lower halves of words, they found an interesting tidbit of information which
    may help other scientists explain reading in the future.  It was the design education
    community of that era that went a bit overboard with it, not the scientists. In
    practical use, cutting off the bottom half does less damage than cutting off the
    top half but it still Does Damage.  It is like saying most human activity and
    sustaining organs are in the the top half of the body.  Cuttoff the head or thorax
    and death swiftly follows.  Cuttoff the lower half and you will still live to
    be a happy paraplegic with a colostomy bag and a hampered sex life. Design professors
    used this kind of thing as a parlor trick to show they read the research.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rehe-bookcov_6490.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rehe-page35_5081.png]"
  created: '2011-01-05 23:48:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wouldn't equate any general understanding amongst typographers that people
    read word shapes with the way that type designers work.\r\n\r\nDo type designers
    ignore the idea that people read word shapes, even if we happen to believe it's
    true? I would say so. There is a gulf between theory and practice. I mean, how
    would a type designer put the \"word shape\" theory into practice?\r\n\r\nH&FJ
    give some indication of not having done so in their description of the nonetheless
    very word-shapey Mercury, by not mentioning word-shape readability benefits, leading
    me to believe that it was not an explicit criterion in the type's design, whereas
    these other criteria which led to short capitals with much higher ascenders are
    cited: \"\u2026[allowing ascenders] to help define the lower case\", \"\u2026more
    compact capitals that help economize on space\", \"\u2026a useful advantage for
    older typesetting systems that aren\u2019t equipped to handle true small caps\",
    and \"\u2026look[ing] less conspicuous on the printed page.\" --\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>Maximal
    Lowercase</strong>\r\nEvery typeface designed for small sizes begins with a large
    x-height, which helps a font feel bigger than it really is. Where Mercury differs
    from most newspaper faces is in its ascenders and descenders: many fonts truncate
    these forms, rather than allowing their shapes to help define the lowercase.\r\n\r\n<strong>Minimal
    Caps</strong>\r\nMercury uncouples the height of the ascenders from the size of
    the caps, and introduces more compact capitals that help economize on space. As
    an added benefit, abbreviations set in ALL CAPS merge more seamlessly with the
    text, a useful advantage for older typesetting systems that aren\u2019t equipped
    to handle true small caps.\r\n\r\n<strong>Efficient Widths</strong>\r\nEven many
    classic newspaper faces have sprawling capitals (Times Roman, despite its popularity,
    has some of the worst.) Mercury\u2019s capitals have been made as discreet as
    possible in order to look less conspicuous on the printed page \u2014 an especially
    important feature when setting news stories that are filled with proper names.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    would suspect that if word-shape had been the principle upon which a type was
    designed, then it would have been mentioned in promotional material and type histories
    -- but I have never come across any such thing.\r\n\r\nIf we accept that prioritizing
    word shape leads to small x-height, then ironically, or perhaps paradoxically,
    the claim of \"large x-height for superior readability\" is usually made, if any
    readability claims relative at all to word shape are made, and I have never seen
    a face described as \"small x-height for superior readability\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 23:52:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@kevlar:\r\n<cite>\"I can't honestly recall any colleagues claiming to design
    for word shape, in the sense of word envelope.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>That is fantastic
    if most typographers and type designers don't actually believe in simple word
    shape, then we\u2019re in agreement.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs three experts have already
    noted above, there's a distinction between typographers and type designers with
    respect to this issue. Typographers do believe in word shape to some extent, which
    is why they prefer using normal upper and lower case to ALL CAPS. But there isn't
    much that type designers <em>can</em> do about word shape; after designing each
    individual letter to be beautiful, and then ensuring that the letters look like
    they belong together, and then adjusting for the right side-to-side fit, there's
    not much they can do for more distant concerns.\r\n\r\nHowever, there is one respect
    in which this isn't entirely true.\r\n\r\nType designers - at least if they're
    trying to revive Jenson or Aldus - do tend to try for generous ascenders and descenders.
    It's commercial considerations, not aesthetic ones, that led to the stubby descenders
    of Caslon 540, Goudy Old Style, and even Times New Roman.\r\n\r\nOf course, there
    are also typefaces in which the x-height is very small for a deliberate effect
    in a display face.\r\n\r\nBut the ascender and descender height of a classic face
    (Cloister Lightface, Bembo, Poliphilus, Caslon Old Style, Garamond) is, I would
    think, generally regarded as optimal for readability provided a suitable point
    size of type is used.\r\n\r\nFor applications where smaller point sizes are used,
    well, you can't have readability if you don't have legibility: the two are not
    the same, but legibility is a prerequisite for readability. Definitely at 8 point
    and below, and even at, say, 10 point (and the default settings on computers are
    such that \"12 point\" is really often \"10 1/2 point, with 1 1/2 point leading\"
    - I was quoting foundry type sizes, not what you get these days) you do need a
    large x-height. But that's a situation where one is struggling for legibility
    in the face of severe constraints, not one in which optimal readability is possible
    of achievement."
  created: '2011-01-06 00:12:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> Type designers have historically made a lot of more or less voodoo claims
    about how they work...\r\n\r\nAn interesting take, and that may be so, but I think
    it's a different thing to publicize a flavor of voodoo, as if it were normal,
    when it is in fact contrary to good practice. \r\n\r\nThe bottom line on letter
    vs. word for me, and perhaps for type design aimed at any sort of automated composition,
    is that I can give you letters that might look rather uneven and contrary-looking
    to each other (see Goudy, Brody or Excoffon), but if you allow an expert composer
    control over the word making, readability emerges from a seeming mishmash of letters.
    \r\n\r\nAnd, I can give you even and compatible-looking letters to each other
    with perfect spacing,(see a lot of stuff), but if you arbitrarily miscompose them
    (even by thin spaces), there are situations where words will just become a mishmash
    of letters.\r\n\r\nSo, I think it's just simply much more important not to fool
    around with word shape than pretty much anything else.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-06 00:35:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I think it's just simply much more important not to fool around
    with word shape than pretty much anything else.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat you imply by
    \u2018word shape\u2019, though, based on your comments, is something very different
    from word envelope as illustrated by Rolf, Hochuli et al. You are talking about
    the relationship of letters and how they succeed or fail to cohere as what I'll
    call wordforms, since the meaning of \u2018word shape\u2019 is ambiguous. This
    is a cognate of letterforms and, like letterforms, wordforms are composed of the
    relationship of positive and negative shapes, and it has to do, as you say, with
    how type is used (composed). The obvious conclusion to draw is that any typeface
    <em>optimally</em> produces wordforms at a specific size, track, resolution, etc.,
    and may only acceptably produce wordforms at some variations of those factors,
    and not at all at others.\r\n\r\n[By the way, speaking about type for specific
    sizes and resolutions, when a font is identified at webtype.com as being intended
    for a particular px size range, is that CSS pixels or actual device pixels? That
    is, is it an optical size target or a ppem target?]"
  created: '2011-01-06 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, I did not use the words  envelope or form. \"Letterforms\" are as you
    say, a combination of positive and negative space... Word \"forms\" if you insist,
    are not like letterforms, being a combination of letters, and not combinations
    of positive and negative spaces. It's too late by word forming to think of letters
    as anything but letters.\r\n[And, would you ever use \"CSS pixels\" to describe
    anything to the public without saying so.?]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-06 12:09:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David [B]: below is a riff on what you wrote.\r\n\r\nA letter is a combination
    of 1) positive shapes built up from black strokes, and 2) white or negative space.
    The white space is the space around and inside the letter and the negative space,
    the space between the strokes. The space around the letter is background. When
    the negative space is the space between adjacent or opposing strokes \u2014 that
    is, the space inside the letter where the background shows through \u2014, it
    can have a shape, or be given form. Negative or white space becomes evoked form
    with a more or less tractable shape. Designers of letters attend to both: for
    the designer a letter is two shapes. Both the black and the white are information
    for vision. Perceptual psychologists and cognitive scientists tend to forget about
    the white.\r\n\r\nA word is exponentially more complex. On the one hand it is
    \u2014 at least in alphabetic scripts \u2014 an ordered combination of letters.
    On another level, it is an aggregation of the shapes, the more elemental whites,
    and the simple-to-complex stroke-constituted blacks. Within the word the combination
    of letters makes a second set of whites \u2014 between-letter whites. These whites
    appear to be less shaped and less informative. Yet conventional craft wisdom wants
    <em>all</em> the whites to be \u2018in synch\u2019 and it wants the blacks to
    be well-coordinated according to their proportions (the implementation of Cartesian
    space), weights, compositional logic (construction) and \u2018swept-object\u2019
    logic (contrast). The total wordfrom is the totality of all this: the totality
    of in synch whites and the coordinated blacks. \r\n\r\nNotan-think wants the black
    and white to be completely equipotent. Designers should at least think of how
    they relate. (This has to do with \u2018colour.\u2019)\r\n\r\nAll of these things
    interface with sight. A functional ontology of reading has to go hand in hand
    with a well-developed theory of writing. Currently they don\u2019t. For example,
    arranging the whites so they are in synch, and tuning the blacks so they are well-coordinated
    affects \u2018phase\u2019 alignment. Arguably this will have an impact on processing
    routines. It will bias the system toward taking a more holistic or gestalt approach.
    But what that means in neural architecture and information processing terms is
    unclear. So the question becomes again, \u201CIs it possible to translate an inchoate
    notion of holistic or gestalt processing into a set of more precisely specified
    possibilities based on the characteristics of information processing?\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    said both the black and the white are information for vision. By Stanislas Dehaene\u2019s
    logic the decomposition of words into their component letters and the increase
    in phonemic awareness has to have something to do with the adaption of certain
    parts of the lateral geniculate nucleus to reading. I\u2019ll bet \u2018reading\u2019
    the whites, and the neural entrenchment of a decomposition of the blacks into
    role-units (through writing!) does too.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-06 17:07:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll bet \u2018reading\u2019 the whites, and the neural entrenchment
    of a decomposition of the blacks into role-units (through writing!) does too.</em>\r\n\r\nThey're
    probably the key!"
  created: '2011-01-06 17:57:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It's your thread Peter, but I'd reriff like: A letter is a combination of
    1) positive shapes built up from black strokes, and 2) two kinds of white or negative
    space. The a.) white space \"inside\" the letter, completely by black and within
    the reach of black's extrema and the b. white space \"outside\" the letter, by
    definition space subject to modification horizontally and vertically at the behest
    of the employer of a font in the act of composition. . .\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-06 22:34:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I did not use the words envelope or form.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course
    you didn't, but you used the term \u2018word shape\u2019 in the context of a discussion
    in which, among other things, this has been associated with word envelope. My
    point was that it would be best to avoid this ambiguous phrase and be quite specific
    about what we mean, individually, when we talk about letters and words. I agreed
    with your comments, but thought you risked confusion by referring to word <em>shape.</em>\r\n\r\n[<em>And,
    would you ever use \"CSS pixels\" to describe anything to the public without saying
    so.?</em>]\r\n\r\nI wouldn't mention \u2018px\u2019 at all in relationship to
    the Web without specifying exactly what I meant. px is a CSS unit measurement,
    and since @font-face implies use of CSS, I think it is more than likely that use
    of \u2018px\u2019 is going to be interpreted in terms of CSS code. I wanted to
    confirm whether or not that was your intention."
  created: '2011-01-07 03:34:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201C[\u2026] white space \u201Coutside\u201D the letter, by definition
    space subject to modification horizontally and vertically at the behest of the
    employer of a font in the act of composition.\u201D\r\n\r\nI guess the space is
    subject to modification and the shape it begins to make subject to greater completion
    horizontally and vertically at the behest [\u2026]"
  created: '2011-01-07 13:30:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, I used word shape in the context of a discussion where Larson was being
    quoted as claiming word shape exaggeration and readability improvement are on
    de same path. They are not. My apologies to you if I was unclear. \r\n\r\n>I wouldn't
    mention \u2018px\u2019 at all in relationship to the Web without specifying exactly
    what I meant...\r\n\r\nLol, well go on ahead then... But first, let me fill you
    in, since you don't type direct any web font services, and maybe ya don't know
    any normal users.\r\n  There is no \"actual size\" for specification type on the
    web.(ahem)\r\n  Most users have no clue about how pixels become px to become different
    from pixels.\r\n  Our larger RE fonts read well to 4.5 point (where a pixel is
    at least .5 point). \r\n  WT says \"Paragraphs, 9px\u201314px\", so that's how
    much space you have to specify \"exactly what you mean\". \r\n  If you don't say
    exactly and precisely the right thing, the word shapes can become unclear through
    misunderstanding of size. :)\r\n\r\nHaVe aT It!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-01-07 13:32:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: White space not enclosed by the glyph takes on great importance when glyphs
    have neighbors.  The resulting shape of the interlocking white spaces created
    when set together is every bit as descriptive of the letter-word conglomeration
    as the black that it brings to life. You cannot make a form without it being affected
    by the shape it makes in its surroundings. To call this a "word shape" for want
    of a better term is okay, but to then redefine "wordshape" as something loosely
    encompassing the blurred outer edge of the word, is a different story.  If we
    need a term for the lassoed shape of the word without consideration of all the
    internal and external whitespace, then let's create 2 separate terms.  Granted,
    some negative shapes do less to activate the figure than others but this, perhaps,
    aids in reading and helps us decode the forms.  I don't know this to be true but
    I would hate to throw out avenues of investigation just to be neat and tidy with
    terminology.  We have a tendency to spend more time arguing about the exact classification
    of pigeon holes than we do looking at the migrations of birds.
  created: '2011-01-07 16:14:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris, if this were facebook I would press the \u2018like\u2018 button several
    times."
  created: '2011-01-07 16:28:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Peter!
  created: '2011-01-07 16:38:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The \"lassooed\" shape is problematic from a fractal perspective (e.g. \"how
    long is the coastline of Britain\").\r\nThe longer the lassoo, the more it comes
    to represent individually discernible letters.\r\n\r\nA similar difficulty occurs
    with open counters: the boundary between internal white space and between letter
    spacing is fuzzy.\r\n\r\nBut at some point in the perceptual process, a decision
    must be made which fixes such values, in terms of their textual meaning.\r\n\r\nIn
    the language of quantum physics, this might be described as decoherence -- the
    untangling of multiple quantum states (possible words) into a single macroscopic
    meaning, or reality as it is read."
  created: '2011-01-07 17:15:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I sent a link to this thread to Gerrit Noordzij, thinking he might be interested.
    He commented:\r\n\r\nYes, the discussion is interesting for me. The participants
    argue at a considerable level. The weak point is the separation of type design
    from other kinds of lettering and from handwriting. Under general conditions you
    make the counters by enclosing them between consecutive strokes; by isolating
    pieces of shape from the world wide background. It does not make any difference
    whether successive strokes belong to the same letter or to the space between letters.
    Typography breaks the pattern of strokes. The counters of the letters are prefabricated
    in typefaces. Only typesetting makes the white shapes between the letters. Rolf
    Rehe demonstrated impressively how a self-indulgent typographer may spoil the
    equilibrium. The jammed shapes can\u2019t dance anymore. We should regard typography
    as a special instance of lettering that obeys the same laws.\r\n\r\nIn a subsequent
    e-mail he added: Feel free to throw my reaction into the ring.\r\n            "
  created: '2011-01-07 19:13:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...It does not make any difference whether successive strokes belong to
    the same letter or to the space between letters....\"\r\n\r\nThat is it in the
    nutshell! Neighbors semi-enclose the sum of their adjoining negative spaces, thereby,
    creating a new shape that describes their union as much as it described the glyphs
    individually before. Letter pairings, or groupings, make distinct shapes which
    probably are not describable as a specific object but none-the-less contribute
    to reading a word or words.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-01-07 19:26:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...It does not make any difference </em>\r\n\r\nIndeed, readers can manage
    letter combinations which deal with white space in quite different ways:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ea_6193.png]\r\nAnd
    both can appear in the same typeface."
  created: '2011-01-07 19:35:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is no hard rule that says these interactions of space must be the same
    in every encounter.  It makes sense that they do not take over to such a degree
    as to make them dominate the sum of all the parts.\r\nNick's 1st ea appears to
    create a dominating shape but ea does not live in a vacuum. Perhaps if we add
    say an s or a t to the mix, this domination falls away and we see a word harmony
    that is not interrupted by the finger-like shape just the e and a make?"
  created: '2011-01-07 19:41:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Only typesetting makes the white shapes between the letters.\r\n\r\nAmen!"
  created: '2011-01-07 19:52:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nHere is a case of the shape being recognized to some degree
    in its native, unadorned state, then pushed to dominate the word-read but in a
    way that ADDS communication value, rather than detracting:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fedEx-logo-thing_3419.png]"
  created: '2011-01-07 20:49:23'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Peter,\r\nCan I ask you why do you find the hierarchical model used by Dehaene
    has difficulty with your description of our lived-experience of words?\r\n\r\nI'm
    asking this because, when I read the part of the book where D. explains this hierarchical
    model (if I remember: neurons that can discriminate between black and white, group
    of neurons that can see the difference between more complex things, etc.) I thought:
    this is the little door from where someone can re-introduce the 'wordshape'. You
    only need to 'enter' at the level of 'word' (to give an example: When I see a
    tree, I have no doubts that a single neuron only knows about really simple stimuli,
    but from my 'normal', 'natural' knowledge \u2013 our lived-experience \u2013 I
    see a whole tree.)\r\n\r\nMoreover, if we think about, a text (set with type or
    written) is hierarchical because (as someone said before) we have spaces that
    define words, spaces that define lines, paragraphs, etc. Organizing phenomena
    with hierarchy seems to me the 'normal' way our perception works.\r\n\r\n(\"My\"
    point of view is that white spaces are there to define hierarchy.)\r\n\r\nBy the
    way, there are also other thing interesting in the book: what he calls proto-letters
    (simple shapes recognized by primates), graphic 'invariants' in writing, for example."
  created: '2011-01-08 22:34:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, there are some optical illusions that show that when we look
    at something with \"white space\", our brains ignore the white space, so that
    if there are obvious shapes in the white space, we are slow to notice them.\r\n\r\nInstead,
    we notice the shapes of the things that are <em>supposed</em> to be meaningful,
    so that an equally apparent shape in the wrong place is all but invisible - or,
    at least, its perception is delayed.\r\n\r\nSo while word outlines are used in
    reading, white spaces between letters... not so much."
  created: '2011-01-08 23:11:33'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "<blockquote>So while word outlines are used in reading, white spaces between
    letters... not so much.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhite spaces between letters, lines,
    etc. define (or contribute to the definition of)  the contour of the 'object'.
    That's why I think that the function of white spaces is the definition of hierarchy.
    (Moreover, you notice white spaces when they are 'wrong': wrong letter spacing
    etc.)\r\nBy the way, If you remove the white spaces it is very hard to read. \r\n\r\nAnother
    thing about white space: Longer ascenders and descenders, for early typographers
    and generally for letterpress printer, had also the side effect of a bigger gap
    between lines (they didn't have 'leading', right?, so this was the only way to
    achieve a bigger line height) and hence a better line definition, etc.. This side
    effect, maybe, can partially explain the improvement in legibility of longer ascender/descender.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm not an expert"
  created: '2011-01-09 10:37:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Daniele,\r\n\r\nLetter, word, line, paragraph and section definition are
    important things and a hierarchy of white space helps delineate them for vision
    \u2014 see Gerrit Noordzij, <em>Letterletter</em> (the book) page 126. Such delineations
    help us navigate the text.\r\n\r\nIn Deheane\u2019s hierarchy anything beyond
    V4, starting with his \u201Cabstract letter detectors,\u201D but including identity
    as a word, exists outside or beyond the visual cortex. The only representation
    of shape that is responded to \u2014 beyond V4 \u2014 is \u2018orthographic shape,\u2019
    and that is done by way of local (open) bigram detection. Global shape is not
    a feature that is used. You can\u2019t enter the recognition hierarchy at the
    top level, you have to come up from the bottom.\r\n\r\nWhen I used \u201Cunitary\u201D
    above, I didn\u2019t only mean \u201Cas an independent unit.\u201D I also had
    in mind \u201Cwhole,\u201D in a gestalt sense of figural, with a unique internal
    structure of <em>intrinsically</em> interconnected parts.\r\n\r\nAs far as I know,
    all letter press printers have strips of lead for leading, but I'm not sure when
    these strips were first invented."
  created: '2011-01-09 13:38:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">so that if there are obvious shapes in the white space, we are slow to notice
    them. ...So while word outlines are used in reading, white spaces between letters...
    not so much.\r\n\r\nInteresting analysis. I think you have here a valuable insight,
    and a mistake. You have a good point that \"figure\" and \"ground\" are probably
    treated differently in the brain. I suspect you are right that the shapes of the
    whites themselves are not \"read\" by the brain *as shapes*. And this is where
    Frutiger's statement that type design is about \"designing the whites\" is misleading.
    And I suspect that Peter's \"role units\" as \"atoms\" making up a word pattern
    don't include white shapes themselves. \r\n\r\nWhere I think where you are mistaken
    is on the importance of the white spaces, in spite of their shapes not being \"read\"
    directly. That is because the ground helps define the \"figure\". Getting width
    of the letter spaces right is important to reading, as it is important to get
    the rhythm of the blacks, and the overall density\u2014\"typographic color\"\u2014
    of a word, and of the text, right. Rhythm and color are both important to readability.
    There are also other issues of the relation between black and white, related to
    optical illusions such as Mach bands and the picket fence effect.\r\n\r\nFinally
    I should note that your use of the the term \"word outlines\" is not clear. If
    it means the outer perimeter of the word, as in the citations of Kevin, then it
    has little to do with Peter's theory, or with how we actually read. I prefer the
    phrase \"spatial pattern of sub-letter features across the whole word\" to explain
    how skilled readers normally recognize words. "
  created: '2011-01-09 15:13:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Daniele, a further (cryptic) thought: Hierarchical coding has it's uses.
    Extrinsic stabalization \u2014 which is what happens through teaching in reading
    acquisition \u2014 combined with narrow phase alignment and the rhythmic formatting
    of the whites inside the word \u2014 gives rise to intrinsic integration at the
    level of role-units.\r\n\r\nI'm going to describe an encoding of order that places
    information about fine-grained recognitional parts in concentric rings around
    salient centres (of the coarser granularity of letter-wholes). Sets of these combine
    to form highly redundant matrices. These become synaptically entrenched. We identify
    familiar words in immersive reading not by climbing ladders but through matrix
    resonance.\r\n\r\nThe idea is that there\u2019s another way of schematizing the
    encoding of order that makes better sense of how we experience words."
  created: '2011-01-09 15:22:48'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: William is right. When it comes to extended reading I find it more useful
    to think about rhythms and textures than white space. When the metrics of a type
    are too regular, it becomes difficult to decode (the picket fence problem). The
    opposite problem, where there is no underlying grid or rhythm established can
    also be hard to read.
  created: '2011-01-09 16:52:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: While I understand Bill's reasoning and Christians preference for looking
    at a different order of magnitude to describe how he works, I don't think we can
    ignore what the negative space does at any level of description.  We can debate
    how much we "choose" to infer from negative vs positive shapes but we cannot deny
    that form is described simultaneously by both! As much as the black describes
    the white, the white describes the black.  There is an interlocking that occurs
    without the need for a hierarchy.  The better the two interact with each-other,
    the more descriptive the form and accurate the read. My guess would be that the
    earliest humans (probably all animals as well that survive partially on vision)
    developed this keen sense of quickly extracting a form from its surrounding noise
    if for no other reason than detecting both predator and prey. I surmise that this
    early "instinct" that evolved further into a "skill" survives today in all of
    us as "that which makes visual decoding of all things practical" to us.  This
    includes reading, sign recognition, logo recognition, and still includes "that
    eery feeling" about walking down a certain fear-inducing path. We read the shadows
    carefully, even if the object casting them is not in view.
  created: '2011-01-09 17:33:06'
- author:
    name: daniele capo
    picture: 113718
  body: "Peter, thanks for your replies. I'd like to read more about that, but I think
    is too 'technical' (if I understand your concern about the model of D. is that
    words are encoded <i>outside</i> the visual cortex.)\r\n\r\nLeading: I think that
    early printers didn't use strip of lead to space lines, but my point was that
    longer ascender/descender always increase the 'white' between the lines, that
    in turn can make the text more legible, or readable (I don't know why I introduced
    the early printers leading problem)."
  created: '2011-01-09 17:38:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I think we agree, and I didn't make myself clear enough. I do think
    the whites are very important, just not the exact shapes that they make. An exception
    is very bold faces, where figure and ground start to be ambiguous.\r\n\r\nFrutiger
    said (p. 217 of Typefaces. The Complete Works), \"The realization that the balance
    of the counters was responsible for the actual beauty of a type face was, for
    me, a revelatory experience.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think I can go far as Frutiger on
    the the balance of counters being *wholly* responsible for \"beauty\". But the
    balance of counters (letter spaces included) is astounding important, and a fundamental
    insight on type design. \r\n\r\nWhen it comes to designing, for example a swash
    stroke, the beauty of the shape of the black is more important than the shape
    of the white ground that it cuts through. That's because it is \"read\", more
    than the white.\r\n\r\nBoth black and white are important. I think what's very
    interesting here, and what John's (Quadibloc's) post raised, is that what is important
    in the white and the black are different. The eye-brain combo handles them differently,
    so the designer is better off doing so as well. "
  created: '2011-01-09 18:05:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>I don't think we can ignore what the negative space does at any
    level of description. We can debate how much we \"choose\" to infer from negative
    vs positive shapes but we cannot deny that form is described simultaneously by
    both! As much as the black describes the white, the white describes the black.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is good evidence that we perceptually distinguish figure and ground and that we
    give preference to figure as shape. Indeed, given our narrow field of focus and
    the need to identify shapes against backgrounds, it shouldn't surprise us that
    we treat figure and ground differently. Yes, the figure is defined relative to
    the ground, but that is not the same thing as suggesting that figure and ground
    are <em>perceptually</em> equal."
  created: '2011-01-09 19:52:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but that is not the same thing as suggesting that figure and ground
    are perceptually equal.\"\r\n\r\nBut they perceptually create each-other! There
    is no equality, one requires the other to exist.  If you choose to call that \"superiority\"
    that is your choice.  If you take away the one you feel has the \"inferior\" role,
    then the other more superior one also disappears."
  created: '2011-01-09 21:13:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>But they perceptually create each-other!</em>\r\n\r\nNo, they
    don't perceptually do anything. <em>We</em> do things perceptually.\r\n\r\nWe
    see figures that are defined by contrast with ground: the stronger the contrast,
    the more defined we say that a figure is. The role of the ground in perception
    of the figure is to contrast with the figure; the shape of the ground is not like
    the shape of the figure, because what we recognise is the shape of the figure,
    not the shape of the ground. This is why we have notions of figure and ground,
    and not merely of positive and negative. Remember that reading is unusual in that
    figure and ground are on the same focal plane; but I see no reason to think that
    this changes the dynamic by which we perceive the shape of the figure against
    as ground that is ignored. The ground has to be there in order to make perception
    of the figure possible, but that is not the same thing as saying that the ground
    is perceived in the same way as the figure. And I'm perfectly comfortable characterising
    this as giving perceptual precedence to the figure."
  created: '2011-01-09 21:47:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here's an experiment: give someone a piece of black paper and some white
    pigment, and ask them to paint a letter A on the paper. How many people do you
    think will paint the counters and the white space around a black A? How many people
    do you think will paint a white A on the black ground?\r\n\r\nI predict that almost
    everyone -- especially non-type designers -- will paint a white A on a black background,
    because the letter is a shape on the ground, and the ground is what is given."
  created: '2011-01-09 21:54:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"No, they don't perceptually do anything. We do things perceptually.\"\r\n\r\nFine,
    make this about semantics or philosophy if you want to stray away and ignore the
    concept completely. Just rewrite the statement in any way with the euphemism of
    your choice to cloud the issue instead of confronting it.  We are talking about
    perception! If you remove the perception of the ground then you remove the perception
    of the figure.  The perception of the one is created by the perception of the
    other. \r\n\r\n\"I predict that almost everyone -- especially non-type designers
    -- will paint a white A on a black\"\r\n\r\nSo what! I am not talking about paint.
    \ Sure they would.  They can paint the A with 2 strokes that way and they would
    need many more to paint out the background with any color.  Pick any 2 colors,
    one for figure and one for ground. Another way to look at it is to give them a
    smooth wooden board and a chisel and hammer.  Most people would cut away the thing
    we call the figure much the same way ancient Greeks and Romans carved letters
    into stone.  By so doing, they are removing some part of the ground to reveal
    the figure--oh and both are the same \"color,\" wood. The glass is half full--the
    glass is half empty. ;-)\r\nThis is not about efficient writing it is about seeing.\r\n\r\nNo,
    you don't perceptually do anything. You do things semantically."
  created: '2011-01-10 01:47:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, maybe John's thought experiment is not very persuasive, but surely
    we do \"do things\" perceptually. Our visual cortex and brain has an extremely
    active process for extracting figures and objects from a visual field. \r\n\r\nIt
    has been shown by studying cat's optic nerves and brains that the visual cortex
    starts by identifying edges. And at the end of the process there is not a reproduction
    of exactly what is \"out there.\" This shown by optical illusions, and these are
    important in type, as you well know--the overshoot on round letters to look the
    same as square ones, dividing letters above the middle to look equal etc., etc.
    The brain is contributing a lot to what we see, and it seems to treat figure and
    ground differently. \r\n\r\nThat is the point John S. was making above:that we
    usually don't identify shapes in the ground. I am grateful for it\u2014Thanks
    John S.! It identifies something that has bothered me for a long time about the
    idea of \"designing the whites\", without my being able to put my finger on it.
    \r\n\r\nAn example is the \"arrow\" in the Fedex logo. People usually don't see
    it until it's pointed out. How much a subliminal effect it has is open to debate,
    but if it were a black arrow everyone would see it right away. Hence, to me John
    S.'s point is made.   "
  created: '2011-01-10 02:47:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>If you remove the perception of the ground then you remove the
    perception of the figure. The perception of the one is created by the perception
    of the other.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat can you mean by \u2018remove the perception of
    the ground\u2019? Let's say that you mean remove the contrast between the ground
    and the figure, because it is the contrast that enables us to perceive the difference
    between the two and hence perceive the recognisable shape. [The alternative would
    be to somehow remove the perception itself, i.e. mess with someone's eyes or brain.]
    Diminishing the contrast obscures the figure relative to the ground, and if the
    contrast is removed completely then we could say that the figure is completely
    obscured, and hence not available to be perceived. Perception of the figure relies
    upon contrast with the ground, but that doesn't say anything at all about perception
    of the ground. To say that 'removing the perception of the ground removes the
    perception of the figure', by which I understand you to mean remove the contrast
    between them so that the one cannot be distinguished from the other, is simply
    a truism. So what? It doesn't say anything about the process by which, given sufficient
    contrast, we perceive and recognise the figure. Nothing at all. It certainly doesn't
    imply that the figure shape is not hierarchically preferenced in our perception,
    or that we do not habitually ignore shapes in the ground.\r\n\r\n<em>No, you don't
    perceptually do anything. You do things semantically.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course we
    do things perceptually, and much of what we do in terms of semantics, when we
    assign meaning to what we perceive, is dependent on and subsequent to perception.
    Where else do you think perception resides if not in our visual cortex and our
    brains? Perception is not a quality of the object perceived. And I am not being
    euphemistic or trying to \u2018cloud the issue instead of confronting it\u2019,
    I am trying to be precise -- anything but euphemistic -- and not to play fast
    and loose with words and concepts. Far from trying to avoid confronting \u2018the
    issue\u2019, I am saying that there is no issue in what you say, only a poorly
    worded truism."
  created: '2011-01-10 03:35:40'
- author:
    name: johnnydib
    picture: 116018
  body: "The brain is just an organ and the neurons don't have a mind of their own.\r\n\r\nI
    would not be surprised if people who can't hear have more of a difficulty reading
    and writing then those who can hear (even if I haven't noticed anything firsthand
    to suggest that), since the alphabet is inherently phonetic and to a lesser degree
    orthographic. \r\n\r\nWhich brings me to the \"Word Superiority\" in Arabic. Whether
    it's an unfamiliar word (it could be familiar to hear, or to read in Latin, but
    unfamiliar in the Arabic script) or whether it's a bad handwriting or a really
    nice and ornamental piece of calligraphy I find my self spelling it out phonetically
    decoding the individual letters before understanding and reading the word. Same
    thing happens in English when you read the name of the Icelandic volcano or shorthand
    or overly done logos. Reading in Arabic is very similar to reading in English,
    there's somewhat of a difference in writing.\r\n\r\nThe major building block of
    reading an alphabet is recognizing individual letters and then seeing them in
    context to figure out how they're pronounced and then seeing them in pairs and
    then in groups. Therefore letter recognition is much more important than word
    recognition and this is exactly why type designers will sometimes design words
    or pairs of letters, because they don't want the r to look like an n or the v
    to touch the a in case that slows down the recognition of any of the letters."
  created: '2011-01-10 04:10:33'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "As designers we often need to train ourselves to see the ground in ways that
    we wouldn't naturally. This is why we do things like turn the letterforms upside
    down, invert them, concentrate deliberately on the white space, squint to blur
    the forms, etc.\r\n\r\nI wonder if some of our focus on figure/ground is an artefact
    of our need as designers to override the perceptual shortcuts our mind takes as
    we process visual information. Think of the first graders' art lesson where the
    teacher reveals with a ruler that the eyes are not, in fact, positioned at the
    top of the head but in the middle.\r\n\r\nI recently heard a great interview with
    Chuck Close, the famous photorealist painter where he described his struggles
    with a condition called \"face blindness\". Apparently a small fraction of the
    population doesn't have the specialized wiring in the brain connected with facial
    recognition. This makes it almost impossible to distinguish people by their faces.
    I wondered if his ability to dispassionately observe the contours of the face
    contributed to his photorealistic portraits."
  created: '2011-01-10 04:20:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I am saying that there is no issue in what you say, only a poorly worded
    truism.\"\r\n\r\nThank you, John. You just proved my point. Your gift with semantics
    serves you well. Instead of making a respectable argument, you just attack the
    source of disagreement. I am sorry that you don't have a clue to what I am talking
    about and insist on changing it to something you prefer.  I won't trouble you
    any further regarding this."
  created: '2011-01-10 04:53:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Christian, My youngest son has some degree of the affliction you mentioned.  It
    always amazes me that he can instantly find the correct way to get me un-lost
    when we are driving in a strange area. (He has memorized every street, road, path,
    and trail in the north eastern US but can have a devil of a time recognizing a
    person he knows if they have dyed their hair or even worn clothes he is not accustomed
    to see them in.) Nature finds a way of letting each of us overcome a weakness
    by connecting via a different path than what we expect as "normal." Reality may
    truly be in the eyes of the beholder :-)
  created: '2011-01-10 05:04:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@johnnydib:\r\n<cite>The brain is just an organ and the neurons don't have
    a mind of their own.</cite>\r\nYes, but there are pieces of the brain that are
    doing things to signals from the eyes before they're passed on to the other parts
    of the brain in which our conscious minds reside.\r\nSo while the brain doesn't
    have a mind of its own, it does do things on its own apart from what we do with
    our own minds."
  created: '2011-01-10 05:36:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>The alternative would be to somehow remove the perception itself, i.e.
    mess with someone's eyes or brain.\r\n\r\nDiminished constrast, disturbed rhythm,
    clouded issues... all easier done than said with Cleartype."
  created: '2011-01-10 10:52:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u201Cwe [\u2026] don't identify shapes in the ground\u201D [Bill et. al.]\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    but in the letter \u201Co\u201D the size of the counter and the roundness of its
    expression on both the left and right have tremendous cue-value. This is augmented
    by the full closedness of the ring-like black that contains it. \r\n\r\nNow take
    the letter \u201Cn\u201D. The size of the counter and the greater squareness of
    its expression to the left and right, as well as it's lack of containment at the
    bottom have critical cue value. This is augmented by the bilateral disparity,
    lack of closure at the bottom, and conjunctivity of and in the black that contains
    it.\r\n\r\nI can devise similar statements for other letters.\r\n\r\nPerception
    \u2014 or better, feature-analytic processing \u2014 relies on cues.\r\n\r\nAt
    the level of distinctive features it does not matter if the cues are provided
    by the black or provide by the white, by what is \u201Cfigure\u201D or what is
    \u201Cground\u201D.\r\n\r\nPerceptual discrimination affordance or visibility
    relies on a differentiation between \u201Cfigure\u201D and \u201Cground,\u201D
    but in feature analytic processing, both the black and white are used.\r\n\r\nThere
    have been studies to determine what things have cue value. I don\u2019t have them
    at my finger tips, and I don\u2019t remember their exact content, but I know my
    impression about the whites comes in part from having had a look at them."
  created: '2011-01-10 13:27:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...don't identify shapes in the ground\u201D\r\n\r\nWe may not have an
    agreed upon name for these shapes, true; We may not consciously attend to these
    shapes to the degree that we would if they were an agreed upon object, true; That
    does not mean that they do not play a role in our perception of the agreed upon
    figure.  Look at a script that is completely foreign to you, one that you cannot
    read or even know what the glyphs are.  To me, the negative shapes in Arabic,
    Indic, and Asian scripts are fascinating beyond belief because I am not encumbered
    by  \"knowing the code\". I am free to just see shapes as they have evolved over
    time and as they vary from one scribe to the next. I fear that the day I can read
    these scripts will be the day I lose this phenomenal joy."
  created: '2011-01-10 16:20:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I wonder if the import of my post was clear enough. By saying that \u201Cin
    feature analytic processing, both the black and white are used,\u201D I wanted
    to convey they are used in reading.\r\n\r\nIn my functional ontology of reading
    feature analytic processing is part of what the visual cortex does when it encounters
    text with an eye to making out what the text says."
  created: '2011-01-10 16:40:28'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nospaces_6667.jpg]'
  created: '2011-01-10 16:55:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Not a fair comparison, considering word breaks.
  created: '2011-01-10 17:12:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Bert, we are able to read text without word spaces, mixed case, and so on,
    so we clearly have the capacity to first identify letters, then words. However
    IT DOES SLOW DOWN the reading process. I put that in caps because John Neatrour
    recently noted to me that the slowing in reading mixed case is not accounted for
    by the "received view" of interactive activation, and it seems cannot be explained.
    If so, the slowing down of ReAdiNg MiXEd CasE is a refutation of the view that
    we always first identify letters, then words. Since we are familiar with the caps,
    we should not be slowed. Saying that we are not familiar with the mixing shouldn''t
    make any difference, because if we go first to an identification as an "a", then
    to the word, the particular shape shouldn''t matter.    '
  created: '2011-01-10 19:18:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">...is a refutation of the view that we always first identify letters, then
    words.\r\n\r\nTihs is bcuseae the huamn mnid deos not raed ervey lteter by istlef,
    but the wrod as a wlohe.\r\n\r\nLetter transposition:\r\n<a href=\"http://micro5.mscc.huji.ac.il/~frost/files/RamCV/VelanFrost2007PBR.pdf\">Cambridge
    University versus Hebrew University</a>\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-10 20:26:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill, the only way the slowing effect of mixed case would be a refutation
    of an interactive activation model the includes a letter level is if this model
    actually had an explanation for this slowing down. The interactive activation
    account doesn't account for this slowing, so there's no refutation. For there
    to be a refutation the account must develop a conjecture about what produces the
    effect that makes new or different testable predictions than another model.\r\n\r\nI
    can imagine that interactive activation theorist may invoke some external explanation,
    not intrinsic to the scheme, but this makes the model weak, especially in the
    face of a model in which the slowing is expected on intrinsic-to-the model grounds."
  created: '2011-01-11 00:05:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Instead of making a respectable argument, you just attack the
    source of disagreement.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>What</em> disagreement? This is what I
    am, honestly, trying to figure out from what you have written: whether or not
    there is actually any disagreement, and as far as I can tell what you have said
    about figure and ground is both unarguably true and without implications for the
    perceptual issues that were being discussed. The fact that the figure shape is
    defined relative to the ground does not tell us anything about how we perceive
    either."
  created: '2011-01-11 00:17:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks David. That is interesting, and makes sense. I think the low redundancy
    of a consonant only language is also why Hebrew, it seems, always had some kind
    of visual indication of word division: mid-dot or word space. I think if you do
    the kind of thing in Hebrew that Bert does above, the Hebrew reader will be slowed
    down more than the English reader. \r\n\r\nI don't see this as bearing on the
    question of whether skilled readers routinely use whole word patterns of sub-letter
    features.  "
  created: '2011-01-11 00:40:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I'm not sure about that. It may be a consequence of the interactive
    activation view, starting with letter identification first, that there would be
    no difference in word identification with similarly familiar letters, even if
    the letters are differently shaped. I guess I don't know the theory well enough
    to say.\r\n\r\nYou could argue, as in my article on readability, that to identify
    letters we need regular rhythm, and with mixed case rhythm is disrupted. Then
    you could test this explanation by mixing lower case with similar stretching to
    caps. I would expect a similar stretching would not slow reading down as much
    as mixing in the caps.    "
  created: '2011-01-11 00:48:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ William & Peter: Regarding mixed case, I have posted this in other threads
    but will do so again here so we have it in the same place.\r\n\r\nBesner, D. (1989).
    On the role of outline shape and word-specific visual pattern in the identification
    of function words: None. <em>The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology:
    Human Experimental Psychology, 41(1-A)</em>, 91\u2013105.\r\n\r\n(I have not had
    the time to follow this thread in its entirety)"
  created: '2011-01-11 15:34:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Christopher, what does Besner mean by \u201Cword-specific visual pattern?\u201D"
  created: '2011-01-11 18:21:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: And what does Besner mean by "none" ;)
  created: '2011-01-11 18:34:17'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Derek Besnera -- Abstract: \r\n\r\nA common assumption in the reading literature
    is that function words are often identified wholly or in part on the basis of
    outline shape and/or word-specific visual pattern. This assumption was examined
    in three perceptual identification experiments, a speeded oral reading experiment,
    and in a lexical decision task where the visual pattern of function words and
    control items (content words, non-words and control strings) was systematically
    distorted by cAsE alTeRnA-tIoN. In all five experiments distortion failed to impair
    performance more on functors than on various control items. This result is argued
    to be inconsistent with the view that outline shape and word-specific visual pattern
    typically play a role in the identification of isolated function words. \r\n\r\nShape
    distortion impaired function words less than controls in perceptual identification,
    but impaired function and content words equally in speeded naming and lexical
    decision. These contrasting effects of shape distortion are discussed in terms
    of a distinction between the uptake of information (lexical access) and phenomenal
    perception.\r\n\r\nAnd see this paper:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://app.psychonomic-journals.org/content/64/5/785.full.pdf\">Does
    \u201Cwhole-word shape\u201D play a role in visual word recognition?</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-11 18:53:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "WSVP (Word-Specific Visual Pattern)\r\n\r\nDerek Besner [1989]: that is,
    (a) visual information that might span letters (e.g. the shape of the spaces between
    letters) and / or (b) visual information that forms part of the feature list that
    specifies a word without recourse to letter identification (e.g., components of
    letters).\r\n\r\nIn a chapter to the 1991 book <em>Lexical Representation and
    Process</em> [ed., William Marslen-Wilson] Besner and James C. Johnston explain
    that these features could be \u201Cthe set of all component strokes in the proper
    arrangement, or they might be more exotic aspects, such as junctions between strokes,
    the shape of spaces between letters, or any other property of the pattern.\u201D\r\n\r\nSo
    on this view the visual information that might be used in word identification
    is the \u201Centire set of visual features in a word,\u201D collectively constituting
    \u201Ca word-specific visual pattern or WSVP.\u201D\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow asks \u201C[a]nd
    what does Besner mean by \u201Cnone.\u201D\u201D Aye, there\u2019s the rub. In
    the case of the WSVP it\u2019s at best a qualified \u201Cnone\u201D. I actually
    laid down a 35 spot to find this out."
  created: '2011-01-12 03:35:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "More about the NONE:\r\n\r\n\u2018The careful reader will have noted that
    words are more impaired than non-words by format distortion in Experiment 5. At
    first glance this seems to offer support for some form of wholistic analysis.
    This result is not new, however, and is discussed at length in Besner (1983),
    Besner & McCann (1987), and Besner and Johnston (1989) where it is argued to reflect
    a form of wholistic recognition, as opposed to wholistic idenrification.\r\n\r\nNote
    that the word \u201Cidentified\u201D is used in Besner's title.\r\n\r\nWe get
    an idea of what the wholistic [Besner\u2019s spelling] recognition versus wholistic
    identification entails from the following: \u201CDeleterious effects of case alternation
    may arise in part after abstract letter identities have been computed and an attempt
    is made to integrate abstract orthographic information with the original sensory
    pattern so as to afford a linguistically interpreted phenomenal percept (Besner,
    1983).\r\n\r\nThe idea is that in the uptake of visual information case mixing
    doesn\u2019t affect performance, but in the formation of a stable percept it does.
    The Perea / Rosa paper explores this further but also makes the following claim
    about Besner: \u201C[\u2026] the multiple-process model of Besner and Johnston
    (1989) predicts that when the visual format is familiar, lexical decision responses
    could be made on the basis of \u201Cword-specific visual pattern information\u201D
    (i.e., it would reflect a form of holistic recognition, as opposed to holistic
    word identification, as in the Allen et al., 1995, model). However, when the format
    is unfamiliar (e.g., alternating-size stimuli), participants will ordinarily use
    the letter-level routes (i.e., the orthographic familiarity assessment process
    or the unique identification of the word).\r\n\r\nLexical decision responses are
    no / yes responses when the subject is asked to decide if the presented letter-sequence
    is a word (using short exposure times). This is \u201Cwholistic recognition,\u201D
    as opposed to identification.\r\n\r\nSo the NONE relies on a distinction between
    recognition, which can rely on word-specific visual pattern, and identification,
    which can\u2019t.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s to be made of this?"
  created: '2011-01-12 14:32:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I.O.U. $17.50?
  created: '2011-01-12 21:19:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Actually, the full story is even more complex \u2014 to complex for here.
    Solving the conundrum provided by mixed results for mixed case also drives Besner
    to also assume alternating case affects the identification of single letters,
    which isn't such a bad result, considering.\r\n\r\n17.50 minus or plus the exchange
    rate? Do I get to choose the date to my advantage? We're about at par now."
  created: '2011-01-12 21:53:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "WSVP (Word-Specific Visual Pattern) again.\r\n\r\nBesner rejected it. \r\n\r\nThe
    phrase was picked up recently here:\r\nhttp://l2c2.isc.cnrs.fr/publications/files/Nazir%20and%20Huckauf%202008.pdf\r\n\r\nIMHO
    WSVP is OK iff V becomes more RULI and P becomes 2D\r\n\r\nRULI = <em>role-unit
    level</em> information\r\n\r\nD = distributions (and they're of two kinds: <em>local</em>,
    i.e., at salient centres; and <em>global</em>, i.e., across the bounded map of
    <em>role-unit level</em> information)\r\n\r\nMore at a later date."
  created: '2011-01-17 17:01:17'
date: '2010-12-31 04:15:49'
node_type: forum
title: bouma slam

---
