---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "An OpenType Font System for Hebrew Grammar is needed because most people, even
  Bible enthusiasts, Jews and non-Jews, no longer know Hebrew Grammar, or barely know
  the basics of Hebrew grammar.\r\n\r\nKnowledge of Hebrew Grammar remains in the
  private domain of very few people. And they know it so poorly that they can not
  express ideas about Hebrew Grammar intelligently. They are expects in one area or
  a few areas of Hebrew Grammar, but ignoramuses in other areas. Evidence of this
  lack of knowledge, I have sought for almost two years for logical explanations and
  clear definitions of many seemingly basic ideas of Hebrew grammar, only to finally
  realize this increasingly dismal situation.\r\n\r\nI want to create an OpenType
  Font System for Hebrew Grammar, so that people with knowledge of Hebrew Grammar,
  albeit limited, will have some of the graphic software tools to transfer that knowledge
  to another generation, and so on. My hope and goal is that in a few generations,
  things will improve a great deal, and Bible and Hebrew enthusiasts will not be in
  the situation that we find ourselves today.\r\n\r\nThe OpenType Font System for
  Hebrew Grammar that I am creating now will require a year or two to complete. Not
  only will I standardize Hebrew grammar glyphs to represent each concept in Hebrew
  grammar, but I will create an OpenType Font System for Hebrew Grammar that automatically
  marks up Biblical Hebrew and Vocalized Hebrew text data with these new Hebrew grammar
  glyphs, like John Hudson has done already in his SBL-Hebrew font for the furtive
  patach, or patach genuvah in Hebrew.\r\n\r\nIn this way, a Hebrew text will have
  Hebrew grammar symbols appear and placed automatically in their correct positions,
  even though the userof the font software does not know to place them their correct
  placement."
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The Beginning of An OpenType Font System for Hebrew Grammar \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GrammarChartv1_6151.jpg]"
  created: '2010-12-31 14:11:12'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The Beginning of Automatic Shvah-Nah\r\n\r\nSpecial Thanks to John Hudson,
    and to Rabbi Judah Winefeld of Shai L'Morah Publishers of Jerusalem (my son studied
    in Crown Heights under his son).\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shvah-Nah-v1_6087.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-02 01:09:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Corrected version - 3rd time aroung (skipping the second)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shvah-Nah-3-v1_4766.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-02 16:56:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Another \"final\" revision\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shvah-Nah-1-v3_5546.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-02 18:06:24'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Continuation #2 Psalm 67\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shvah-Nah-2-v1_4477.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-03 01:21:26'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Set #3 - Pslalms 126\r\nAccording to Minchat Shai\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SN_Set3-v1_4385.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-05 07:28:09'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "So we see that Minchat Shai presents 9 rules which indicate when a shvah
    is really a shvah-nah.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MC_SN_Rules1_3636.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-05 07:55:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Next week, I want to present an \"alpha\" of a MS Volt with automatic 'shvah-nah'
    (according to Minchat Shai) for a paragraph of Biblical Hebrew text from Genesis
    1.\r\n\r\nThe sample will be posted in two versions, before and after. Before
    will be applying the text with GHB FrankReuhl, without automatic shvah. After
    will be applying the text with GHA FrankReuhl, with automatic shvah-nah.\r\n\r\nAautomatic
    shvah-nah simply uses a font with shvah-nah floating symbol, and some lines of
    the GUB look-ups, like a set of 'find-and-replace' routines."
  created: '2011-01-07 18:37:52'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Currently, I have delayed presenting the results of an OpenType font with
    an automatic shvah-nah feature, like that which occurs in SBL-Hebrew for the patach
    ganuvahh or furtive patach, by John Hudson of Tiro Typeworks.\r\n\r\nThere are
    four approaches, or sets of rules, governing when a shvah-nah should or should
    not appear. Similarly, there are four kinds of graphic symbols.\r\n\r\nFour Sets
    of Rules\r\n1. Rabbi Zalman Henna\r\n2. Minchat Shai\r\n3. Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur\r\n4.\r\n\r\nFour
    Graphic Symbols\r\n1. Floating Asterisk\r\n2. Floating Asterisk with Circle Around
    It\r\n3. Rafe-like\r\n4. Emboldened Shvah\r\n\r\nOthers have attempted this automatic
    shvah-nah algorythm unsuccessfully. The have joined the different views together
    without distinction.\r\n\r\nThis approach is incorrect because there are exceptions
    to some of the rules that must be included in the algorythm. This is possible,
    but requires a lot of programming. It is very time-consuming.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4_X_SN_5838.jpg]"
  created: '2011-02-20 15:14:53'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Where do we see differences between these opposing views?\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Avos1-1_5780.jpg]"
  created: '2011-02-21 01:27:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Israel, as you know, I am not convinced that OpenType glyph processing is
    the right place to attempt to capture these grammatical features, but I think
    it is great that you are taking the time to document the variant representations
    so thoroughly.
  created: '2011-02-23 03:11:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI do know your view on substitutions for grammar or text input
    error purposes. You are a purist, whereas I try to be A practical person.\r\n\r\nSBL-Hebrew,
    which you know that I view as a masterpiece, and all Biblical fonts are compared,
    features a patach genuvah or furtive patach - which is a grammar issue. If so,
    you should remove it. :)\r\n\r\nTo this day, all data of Biblical Hebrew is not
    in logical sequence, yet our SBL-Hebrew like fonts are rigid, and do not address
    these issues. Yet.\r\n\r\nTo this day, there are a few standards of Biblical text
    for Jews and Christian, when one font can address them, and convert that as need
    me, yet this has not been done. Yet.\r\n\r\nI am documenting everything here,
    both for me, or for others later who seek to do the same. G-d has enough livelihoods
    for everyone."
  created: '2011-02-23 03:27:03'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I do not see how there are more than two approaches: \r\n1) Minchat Shai/R'
    Eliyahu Bachur, and\r\n2) R' Zalman Henna.\r\n\r\nEveryone agrees on the basic
    9 rules.\r\nMS does have a few exceptions.\r\nRZH has a lot more.\r\nI haven't
    decifered the rules for these. There must be rules, but who do I ask?\r\nSo, I'm
    about 90% there after nearly 2 years. A year spent on nonsense."
  created: '2011-02-23 05:03:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: The question is who's asking? GoHebrew?   Scott Irwin?  Scott Israel  Seldowitz?  Israel  Seldowitz?
  created: '2011-02-23 17:27:58'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "GoHebrew is a trade name for Scott Seldowitz.\r\n\r\nScott Irwin Seldowitz
    is my legal birth name in the United States.\r\nFor example, my Social Security
    card's name is Scott Irwin Seldowitz.\r\n\r\nIn 1989, Scott Irwin Seldowitz registered
    in the State of New York the name \"Israel\" as a DBA (Doing Business As). Since
    then, I always have done business by representing myself as 'Israel' or 'Israel'
    Seldowitz.\r\n\r\nTo some of my Arab or Iranian business customers, I am not called
    'Israel' for political reasons. I am called rather 'Scott'. I think it is very
    immature.\r\n\r\nOn FaceBook, I am called \"Scott Israel Seldowitz\", to accomodate
    those who refer to me as 'Scott', and those who refer to me as 'Israel'.\r\n\r\nAs
    a Jew, my Hebrew names are:  \u05E9 \u05DC \u05DE \u05D4   \u05D9 \u05E9 \u05E8
    \u05D0 \u05DC  - Shlome Yisroel. In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, I am called \"Shlome\";
    in Flatbush, Brooklyn, where I live now, I am called \"Yisroel\".\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nIs
    there practically any view, David, besides that of Rabbi Zalman Henna, and that
    of the Minchat Shai?\r\n\r\nRabbi Eliyahu Bachur appears to be the same as the
    Minchat Shai? Where does Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur discuss this or related topics?\r\n\r\nThe
    apparent 3rd or 4th view, which appears in some older Sephardic books, appears
    only to be different by typesetting the shvah-nah under the first letter of a
    word as a bold shvah. There appears to be no other differences.\r\n\r\nAre you
    insulted by my introductory remarks? This was not my intention at all. My intention
    was merely to cry about the dismal state of Hebrew grammar knowledge of this generation,
    as a wake-up call to do something about it, besides being complacent."
  created: '2011-02-23 18:47:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I found this information on Rabbi Eliyahu Bachur from the online encyclopedia,
    known as Wikipedia at: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elia_Levita\r\n\r\nElia Levita\r\nFrom
    Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\r\n\r\nElia Levita (13 February 1469 \u2013 28
    January 1549), (Hebrew: \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5 \u05D1\u05DF \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8
    \u05D4\u05DC\u05D5\u05D9 \u05D0\u05E9\u05DB\u05E0\u05D6\u05D9) also known as Elijah
    Levita, Elias Levita, Eliahu Bakhur (\"Eliahu the Bachelor\") was a Renaissance-period
    Hebrew grammarian, poet and one of the first writers in the Yiddish language.
    He was the author of the Bovo-Bukh (written in 1507\u20131508), the most popular
    chivalric romance written in Yiddish, which, according to Sol Liptzin, is \"generally
    regarded as the most outstanding poetic work in Old Yiddish\".[1]\r\n\r\nBorn
    at Neustadt near Nuremberg, he was the youngest of nine brothers. During his early
    manhood, the Jews were expelled from this area. He lived in Venice for a time
    after 1496, where he was one of the most important figures of the flourishing
    of Yiddish literature, before the descendants of the Ashkenazic Jews who had emigrated
    this area adopted the local Italian speech.[2]\r\n\r\nDuring these years, Levita
    scratched out a living as an entertainer. After Venice, he relocated to Padua
    (1504), where he wrote the 650 ottava rima stanzas of the Bovo-Bukh, based on
    the popular romance Buovo d'Antona, which, in turn, was based on the Anglo-Norman
    romance of Sir Bevis of Hampton.[3]\r\n\r\nEscaping a war, he left in 1509 for
    Rome, where he acquired a patron, the humanist Petrus Egidius (1471\u20131532)
    of Viterbo, who from 1517 held the rank of a Roman Catholic cardinal. Levita taught
    Hebrew to Petrus, and copied Hebrew manuscripts\u2014mostly related to the Kabbalah\u2014for
    Petrus's library.[3]\r\n\r\nThe 1527 Sack of Rome sent Levita back to Venice,
    where he worked as a proofreader and taught Hebrew.[3] Levita published at Venice
    a treatise on the laws of cantillation entitled Sefer Tuv Ta'am. At seventy years
    of age, Levita left his wife and children and departed in 1540 for Isny, accepting
    the invitation of Paul Fagius to superintend his Hebrew printing-press there.
    During Elia's stay with Fagius (until 1542 at Isny and from 1542 to 1544 at Konstanz)
    he published the following works: Tishbi, a dictionary containing 712 words used
    in Talmud and Midrash, with explanations in German and a Latin translation by
    Fagius (Isny, 1541); Sefer Meturgeman, explaining all the Aramaic words found
    in the Targum (Isny, 1541); Shemot Debarim, an alphabetical list of the technical
    Hebrew words (Isny, 1542); a Jud\xE6o-German (that is, early Western Yiddish)
    version of the Pentateuch, the Five Megillot, and Haftarot (Konstanz, 1544); and
    a new and revised edition of the Bachur.[4] While in Germany he also printed the
    first edition of his Bovo-Bukh.[3] On returning to Venice, Eliah, in spite of
    his great age, he worked on editions of several works, including David Kimhi's
    Miklol, which he also annotated.[4] [3]\r\n\r\nElia Levita died 28 January 1549
    in Venice, aged 80 years. He has descendants living today, including British Prime
    Minister David Cameron.\r\n[5]\r\n\r\nLiptzin writes that Paris and Vienna, attributed
    to Levita, \"easily ranks with the Bovo-Bukh in quality though not in popularity.
    Also a chivalric verse romance, it tells the story of a knight (Paris) and a princess
    (Vienna); the name of the work has no apparent connection to the similarly named
    cities.[6] He adds that Levita \"was not the equal\" of his contemporaries Ariosto
    or Tasso, and that the \"knightly adventures\" he depicted \"had no basis in Jewish
    reality\": compared to other chivalric romances, Levita's works \"tone down the
    Christian symbols of his original\" and \"substitute Jewish customs, Jewish values
    and Jewish traits of character here and there...\" [7]\r\n\r\nWorks\r\n\r\nElia
    Levita Bachur's Bovo-Buch: A Translation of the Old Yiddish Edition of 1541 with
    Introduction and Notes by Elia Levita Bachur, translated and notes by Jerry C.
    Smith, Fenestra Books, 2003, ISBN 1-58736-160-4.\r\nParis and Vienna (attributed)\r\nmiscellaneous
    shorter poems\r\nHis grandson became a Jesuit priest.\r\n[edit]Notes\r\n\r\n^
    [Liptzin, 1972] p.5, 7.\r\n^ [Liptzin, 1972] p.5.\r\n^ a b c d e [Liptzin, 1972]
    p.6.\r\n^ a b Jewish Encyclopedia article.\r\n^ \"David Cameron 'could be a direct
    descendant of Moses'\", Times Online, July 10, 2009\r\n^ [Liptzin, 1972] p.7\u20138.\r\n^
    [Liptzin, 1972] p.8.\r\n[edit]References\r\n\r\nGottheil, Richard and Jacobs,
    Joseph Baba Buch, Jewish Encyclopedia, 1901-1906\r\nLiptzin, Sol, A History of
    Yiddish Literature, Jonathan David Publishers, Middle Village, NY, 1972, ISBN
    0-8246-0124-6.\r\n\r\nThis article incorporates text from the 1901\u20131906 Jewish
    Encyclopedia article \"Levita, Elijah\" by Joseph Jacobs and Isaac Broyd\xE9,
    a publication now in the public domain.\r\n\r\n====\r\n\r\nfrom: http://seforim.blogspot.com/2010/12/eliyahu-bachur-in-isny.html\r\n\r\nELIYAHU
    BACHUR (1469 \u2013 1549)\r\n by: Dan Yardeni\r\nDan Yardeni, an engineer by profession
    (Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, 1963), is entrepreneur specializing
    in cutting edge materials and materials production processes.\r\n\r\nAs sideline,
    \ he researches problems in the history of Hebrew books printing and printers.
    He also contributes articles to the Culture and Literature sections of Haaretz
    and other Israeli newspapers. This is his first post at the Seforim blog. \r\n\r\nELIYAHU
    BACHUR\r\n \r\nA little street in Tel Aviv commemorates the personality of a colorful
    Jewish culture hero at the time of the Italian Renaissance, known as Eliah Levita
    by Christians and Eliyahu Bachur by Jews. While he considered himself primarily
    a linguist, he was also a teacher, translator, writer and editor, debater, poet,
    singer and humanist with a deep sense of social awareness, which he expressed
    in sharply worded satires. While all his life he was an observant Jew, he was
    also a close friend and teacher of the greatest Christian scholars of his day
    and became a foremost \"cultural agent\" between Judaism and Christianity.\r\n
    \r\nEliahu Bachur's unusual name is due to the fact that he remained a bachelor
    for a long time, and later adopted the epithet in the sense of Bachur \u2013 Chosen
    (see his preface to Sefer HaBachur, Isny 1542 where he explains the name of the
    book and comments:  \".... \u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA \u05E9\u05DD \u05DB\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D9\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05E9\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4 \u05D5\u05D1\u05E9\u05DD \u05D1\u05D7\u05D5\u05E8
    \u05DE\u05DB\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4 .... \" ). He was born in southern Germany in 1469
    and died and was buried in Venice at the age of 81, a rather advanced age at the
    time.\r\n \r\nMost of his life he lived and worked in Italy. For a brief period
    of two and a half years, between 1540 and 1542, Eliyahu Bachur moved to the small
    town of Isny in the picturesque Allg\xE4u region of southern Germany. Isny was
    at that time a a free self-governing city organized as a republic within the Holy
    Roman Empire, then under the rule of Charles V. Eliyahu Bachur was invited by
    the Christian reformer and Hebraist Paulus Fagius to work with him as editor and
    proofreader in the printing-house, which Fagius had founded in Isny. Despite the
    burden of his seventy-one years, Eliyahu accepted the invitation, left his home
    in Venice and crossed the Alps to live in that little town. Why did he do it?
    The large and world famous printing-house of Daniel Bomberg in Venice, where he
    had worked as an editor and proofreader for many years, ceased operating at that
    time and Fagius was offering him a good job and, most important, undertook to
    print  the books Eliyahu had written.\r\n \r\nEliyahu Bachur describes his journey
    to Isny at the end of his book \u2018Tishbi,\u2019 the first of his books to be
    published in the new printing-house. (The name of the book alludes to his name,
    Eliyahu). The book, printed in typical Ashkenazi Hebrew typography, constitutes
    a kind of dictionary describing 712 roots of Hebrew words. And so he writes in
    the preface to the book: \u201C\u2026 I beg anyone, scholar or student who reads
    this book and finds a mistake or error, to note that it is the fruit of haste
    since I was in a hurry to reach this place and when I left my house the book was
    not yet finished, and as I was en route, crossing lands of raining hills and mountains
    I stood trembling, weighing matters up in my mind and writing them in my heart,
    and then, when I reached the inn, I opened my case, took out my notebook and wrote
    down the things which the Lord had put into my heart.\u201D\r\n \r\nWe know of
    sixteen titles (sometimes in 2 editions, with and without Latin translation),
    which Eliyahu Bachur published in Isny. He may have printed more, of which no
    copies survived. Most of the time he was the only Jew in  that Christian town
    which was so devoutly Protestant that it did not allow Catholic Christians to
    reside within its walls. The contents of his books, and the texts which he wrote
    and appended to them, are of great interest still today. Most touching is the
    reflected conflict between his desire to publish the books he had written and
    the longing for his family and for Venice, the town where he had lived most of
    his life.\r\n \r\nWhile being a deeply religious and observant Jew, Eliyahu Bachur
    displayed cultural openness to the Christian world. He did this in spite of the
    fierce opposition of rabbis, who regarded him with suspicion, as someone who was
    prepared to venture beyond the self-imposed barriers surrounding the Jewish scholarly
    community (See his preface to Masoret Ha-Massoret book printed in Venice 1938
    and later). He also had the courage and intellectual honesty to admit that he
    had been helped in translating difficult Greek words to Hebrew by the learned
    Christian cardinal Egidio Viterbo, to whom he had taught Hebrew during his sojourn
    in Rome years earlier. He dared to state, in face of virulent opposition from
    leading orthodox rabbis, that the punctuation of the Hebrew language was a later
    invention and not as ancient as had been thought until then. In his rhyming introduction
    to his book \u2018Tishbi,\u2019 he challenged those who disagreed with him to
    react still in his lifetime:\r\n \r\n\"..... / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05D0\u05D5\u05DE\u05E0\u05DD
    \u05DC\u05D0 \u05E9\u05E7\u05E8 \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D9 / \u05D0\u05DD \u05DC\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05D9\u05E4\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D9 \u05D9\u05DB\u05D6\u05D9\u05D1\u05E0\u05D9
    / \u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05D2\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D9\u05D1\u05D9\u05DF \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9
    / \u05D9\u05DB\u05EA\u05D5\u05D1 \u05DC\u05D5 \u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9
    \u05E8\u05D9\u05D1\u05D9 / \u05D0\u05DA \u05D9\u05E2\u05E9\u05D4 \u05D6\u05D0\u05EA
    \u05D8\u05E8\u05DD \u05D0\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05DE\u05D4 \u05D0\u05E9\u05D9\u05D1
    \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05E9\u05DB\u05D1\u05D9 / \u05D0\u05D5 \u05D9\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D2\u05DD \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DB\u05DE\u05D5\u05E0\u05D9 / \u05D0\u05D5
    \u05D9\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9\u05DF \u05DC\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D3 \u05E9\u05D5\u05D1\u05D9
    / .......\"\r\n \r\n\u201C\u2026Indeed my words are not a lie / So who will dispute
    me? / If I erred, please  show me where / And my rival may write his own opinion
    \ / But let him do it before I die / Because once I died how could I reply? /
    Or possibly he too may meanwhile pass away / Or he might have to wait for my resurrection
    from the dead\u2026.\u201D\r\n \r\nLater, in a playful rhymed foreword, combining
    genuine modesty with an awareness of his own value, he added a well-known fable
    attributed to Pliny the Elder, which Eliyahu claims to remember from his youth:\r\n
    \r\n\"\u05D0\u05E4\u05EA\u05D7\u05D4 \u05D1\u05DE\u05E9\u05DC \u05E4\u05D9 / \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8
    \u05E9\u05DE\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D1\u05D9\u05DE\u05D9 \u05D7\u05E8\u05E4\u05D9
    / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D1\u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05D4\u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA
    / \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05E0\u05E7\u05D1\u05D5 \u05D1\u05E9\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA /
    \u05D0\u05DE\u05DF \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8 / \u05D5\u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05E6\u05DC\u05DD \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9 \u05E2\u05DC \u05E0\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8 /
    \u05D5\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D4\u05D0\u05D9\u05E9 \u05D4\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 / \u05EA\u05DD
    \u05D5\u05D9\u05E9\u05E8 / \u05D9\u05E4\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D5\u05D0\u05E8 \u05D5\u05DE\u05E9\u05D5\u05D7
    \u05D1\u05E9\u05E9\u05E8 / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D3\u05D1\u05D9\u05E7\u05D4\u05D5 \u05E2\u05DC
    \u05DC\u05D5\u05D7 \u05E2\u05E5 / \u05D5\u05E2\u05DC \u05E4\u05EA\u05D7 \u05D1\u05D9\u05EA\u05D5
    \u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D5 \u05E0\u05D5\u05E2\u05E5 / \u05DC\u05D4\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D4\u05E2\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05D5\u05D4\u05E9\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD \u05D0\u05EA
    \u05D9\u05D5\u05E4\u05D9\u05D5 / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05DB\u05DC\u05D9\u05DC \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05DE\u05D4\u05D3\u05E8\u05D5  \u05D5\u05E6\u05D1\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D3\u05D9\u05D5
    / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D4\u05D9 \u05DB\u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05DB\u05DC \u05D4\u05E2\u05DD
    \u05E8\u05D5\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD / \u05D5\u05D4\u05E0\u05D4 \u05D1\u05EA\u05D5\u05DA
    \u05D4\u05D1\u05D0\u05D9\u05DD / \u05D6\u05E7\u05DF \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05E8\u05E6\u05E2\u05DF
    / \u05E2\u05DC \u05DE\u05E9\u05E2\u05E0\u05EA\u05D5 \u05E0\u05E9\u05E2\u05DF /
    \u05D5\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D5\u05D4\u05D1\u05D9\u05D8 \u05D2\u05DD \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    / \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8\u05D9 \u05DB\u05DF \u05E4\u05EA\u05D7 \u05D0\u05EA \u05E4\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5
    / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05D4\u05E0\u05E0\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D5\u05DE\u05D3
    \u05DE\u05E9\u05EA\u05D0\u05D4 / \u05D0\u05D9\u05DA \u05D4\u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05E9\u05D2\u05D4 \u05D1\u05E8\u05D5\u05D0\u05D4 / \u05D4\u05DC\u05D0 \u05EA\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5
    \u05DB\u05D9 \u05E9\u05E8\u05D5\u05DA \u05D4\u05E0\u05E2\u05DC / \u05D4\u05E4\u05D5\u05DA
    \u05DC\u05DE\u05D8\u05D4 \u05DC\u05DE\u05E2\u05DC / \u05D5\u05DB\u05E9\u05DE\u05D5\u05E2
    \u05D4\u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8 \u05D0\u05EA \u05D6\u05D0\u05EA / \u05D9\u05E6\u05D0
    \u05D2\u05DD \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DC\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA / \u05D5\u05D9\u05E8\u05D0
    \u05D5\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9\u05E2 \u05E8\u05D0\u05E9 / \u05D5\u05D4\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D1\u05D5\u05E9 / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05E6\u05D3\u05E7\u05EA
    \u05D0\u05EA\u05D4 \u05D4\u05D6\u05E7\u05DF / \u05D0\u05DA \u05D4\u05DC\u05D9\u05DC\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05DE\u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA \u05D0\u05EA\u05E7\u05DF / \u05D5\u05DB\u05DF
    \u05EA\u05E7\u05E0\u05D4\u05D5 \u05D8\u05E8\u05DD \u05D4\u05DC\u05DA \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF
    / \u05D5\u05DC\u05DE\u05D7\u05E8\u05EA\u05D5 \u05D4\u05D5\u05E6\u05D9\u05D0\u05D5
    \u05DB\u05DE\u05E9\u05E4\u05D8 \u05D4\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05D4\u05E8\u05E6\u05E2\u05DF \u05E9\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D5\u05E1\u05E3
    \u05DC\u05D4\u05D1\u05D9\u05D8 \u05D1\u05EA\u05D1\u05E0\u05D9\u05EA / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8
    \u05DC\u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8 \u05D9\u05E4\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D9\u05E7\u05E0\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05E2\u05E9\u05D9\u05EA / \u05D0\u05D1\u05DC \u05D1\u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3
    \u05E9\u05D2\u05D9\u05EA / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05E8\u05D5\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 \u05E0\u05D1\u05D6\u05D4 / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05D4\u05D1\u05E8\u05DB\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D0\u05D9\u05E0\u05DD \u05D3\u05D5\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05D6\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D6\u05D4
    / \u05D4\u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05D2\u05D3\u05D5\u05DC \u05D5\u05D4\u05D0\u05D7\u05D3
    \u05E7\u05D8\u05DF / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05DC\u05D5 \u05D4\u05E6\u05D9\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05DC\u05DA \u05D0\u05DC \u05D4\u05E9\u05D8\u05DF / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05DE\u05E9\u05E8\u05D5\u05DA
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05E2\u05DC \u05D5\u05DC\u05DE\u05E2\u05DC\u05D4/ \u05D0\u05D9\u05DF
    \u05DC\u05DA \u05D1\u05D7\u05DB\u05DE\u05D4 \u05D7\u05DC\u05E7 \u05D5\u05E0\u05D7\u05DC\u05D4
    / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D4\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E8\u05E6\u05E2\u05DF \u05DC\u05D1\u05D5\u05E9\u05D4
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05DB\u05DC\u05D9\u05DE\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05D9\u05E4\u05DF \u05D5\u05D9\u05DC\u05DA
    \u05D1\u05D7\u05D9\u05DE\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05DB\u05DF \u05D9\u05E8\u05D0\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D2\u05DD \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9 / \u05E9\u05DB\u05DE\u05E7\u05E8\u05D4 \u05D4\u05E8\u05E6\u05E2\u05DF
    \u05D9\u05E7\u05E8\u05E0\u05D9 / \u05D1\u05E2\u05E0\u05D9\u05D9\u05DF \u05D6\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05D7\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E8 / \u05E8\u05E2\u05D4 \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05D9\u05D3\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8
    / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D0\u05DE\u05E8 \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9 \u05DE\u05D9 \u05E9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    / \u05DE\u05D4 \u05DC\u05DA \u05E4\u05D4 \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5 / \u05DB\u05DC\u05DA
    \u05DC\u05DE\u05D3\u05D1\u05E8\u05DA \u05D0\u05E6\u05DC \u05D3\u05E7\u05D3\u05D5\u05E7
    \u05D5\u05DE\u05E1\u05D5\u05E8\u05D5\u05EA / \u05D0\u05D9\u05DF \u05DC\u05DA \u05E2\u05E1\u05E7
    \u05D1\u05E0\u05E1\u05EA\u05E8\u05D5\u05EA / \u05D0\u05DC \u05EA\u05D7\u05DE\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3 \u05D9\u05D5\u05EA\u05E8 \u05DE\u05DC\u05D9\u05DE\u05D5\u05D3\u05DA
    / \u05D5\u05D0\u05DC \u05EA\u05E0\u05D1\u05DC \u05DB\u05E1\u05D0 \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3\u05DA
    / \u05D5\u05DC\u05DB\u05DF \u05D9\u05E8\u05D0\u05EA\u05D9 \u05DC\u05E7\u05E8\u05D1
    \u05D0\u05DC \u05D4\u05DE\u05DC\u05D0\u05DB\u05D4 / \u05E4\u05DF \u05DC\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05E8\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D1\u05D4 \u05E1\u05D9\u05DE\u05DF \u05D1\u05E8\u05DB\u05D4
    / \u05D0\u05DA \u05E8\u05D5\u05D7\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E6\u05D9\u05E7\u05EA\u05E0\u05D9
    / \u05D5\u05D0\u05E9 \u05E2\u05E6\u05D5\u05E8 \u05D1\u05E2\u05E6\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D5\u05E9\u05E8\u05E4\u05EA\u05E0\u05D9 / \u05D5\u05DB\u05DC\u05DB\u05DC \u05DC\u05D0
    \u05D9\u05DB\u05D5\u05DC\u05EA\u05D9 / \u05D5\u05DE\u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E9\u05DD
    \u05E2\u05D6\u05E8 \u05E9\u05D0\u05DC\u05EA\u05D9 / \u05D9\u05E6\u05E8\u05E3 \u05DC\u05D9
    \u05DC\u05DE\u05E2\u05E9\u05D4 \u05D4\u05DE\u05D7\u05E9\u05D1\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05D9\u05D5\u05E8\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05D1\u05D3\u05E8\u05DA \u05D4\u05D8\u05D5\u05D1\u05D4 / \u05DB\u05D9 \u05DE\u05DB\u05D9\u05E8
    \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9 \u05D0\u05EA \u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DE\u05D9 / \u05E9\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA\u05E8
    \u05DE\u05D9\u05D3\u05D9 \u05E0\u05D8\u05DC\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D2\u05D3\u05D5\u05DC\u05D4
    \ \u05DC\u05E2\u05E6\u05DE\u05D9 / \u05E9\u05DE\u05DC\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9 \u05DC\u05D1\u05D9
    \u05DC\u05E4\u05E8\u05E9 \u05DB\u05DC \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD
    / \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D1\u05E9\u05D5\u05DD \u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DD \u05D0\u05D9\u05E0\u05DD
    \u05DE\u05E4\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD / \u05D5\u05D0\u05E3 \u05DE\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05DE\u05E4\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD \u05DB\u05D1\u05E8 / \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3\u05E9
    \u05D1\u05DB\u05DC \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05D0\u05D9\u05D6\u05D4 \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8
    / \u05D5\u05E8\u05D5\u05D1\u05DD \u05DE\u05DF \u05D4\u05D2\u05DE\u05E8\u05D0 \u05D5\u05DE\u05D3\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9
    \u05E8\u05D1\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5 / \u05DB\u05D2\u05D5\u05DF \u05D1\u05E8\u05D0\u05E9\u05D9\u05EA
    \u05E8\u05D1\u05D0 \u05D5\u05EA\u05E0\u05D7\u05D5\u05DE\u05D0 \u05D5\u05D9\u05DC\u05DE\u05D3\u05E0\u05D5
    / \u05D5\u05D0\u05E3 \u05E9\u05D1\u05E2\u05D5\u05D5\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05D9
    / \u05DB\u05D1\u05E8 \u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D5 \u05E8\u05D5\u05D1 \u05E9\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\u05D9
    / \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0 \u05E8\u05D0\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D1\u05D8\u05D5\u05D1\u05D4
    / \u05D1\u05D4\u05D5\u05D5\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA \u05D0\u05D1\u05D9\u05D9 \u05D5\u05E8\u05D1\u05D0
    / \u05D5\u05DC\u05D7\u05DB\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD \u05DE\u05E2\u05D8 \u05E9\u05D9\u05DE\u05E9\u05EA\u05D9
    / \u05D5\u05DE\u05E9\u05D0\u05DD \u05D5\u05DE\u05EA\u05E0\u05DD \u05DC\u05D0 \u05D1\u05E9\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D1\u05D9\u05E7\u05E9\u05EA\u05D9 / \u05DE\u05DB\u05DC \u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DD
    \u05DC\u05D1\u05D9 \u05DC\u05D0 \u05DE\u05E0\u05E2\u05E0\u05D9 / \u05D5\u05D1\u05D0\u05D2\u05D3\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D5\u05D1\u05DE\u05D3\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD \u05D9\u05D2\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9
    / \u05DC\u05D4\u05D5\u05E6\u05D9\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D4\u05DD \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D7\u05E9\u05D5\u05E7\u05D9\u05DD / \u05D5\u05D1\u05E4\u05E8\u05D5\u05E9\u05D9
    \u05D5\u05DE\u05D3\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9 \u05D4\u05E4\u05E1\u05D5\u05E7\u05D9\u05DD
    / \u05E2\u05D3 \u05E9\u05E8\u05D5\u05D1 \u05D2\u05D9\u05E8\u05E1\u05EA\u05DD \u05D4\u05D9\u05D0
    \u05DC\u05D9 \u05D9\u05D3\u05D5\u05E2\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05D6\u05D4 \u05D9\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4
    \u05DC\u05D9 \u05DC\u05D9\u05E9\u05D5\u05E2\u05D4 / \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E1\u05E4\u05E8
    \u05D4\u05D6\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D7\u05D1\u05E8 / \u05D5\u05DC\u05D1\u05E8\u05E8 \u05D5\u05DC\u05DC\u05D1\u05DF
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D0\u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 / ............/.\r\n
    \r\nThe fable tells the story of the famous Greek painter Apelles (a contemporary
    of Alexander the Great), and a cobbler,. Apelles drew a beautiful young man and
    pasted the painting on wooden board that he placed at his doorway to impress all
    passers-by. Among them was an old cobbler, leaning on his cane. The cobbler gazed
    at the painting and commented: \"I am surprised how the artist made such a mistake.
    You see, the shoelace goes upside down\". When the artist heard that, he went
    out to see, nodded his head and consented: \"You are right, old man. But tonight
    I shall correct the mistake\". And so he did before going to sleep and the next
    day he hung the painting in place as before. And the old cobbler came again. He
    looked at the painting and told the artist: \"Well done but there is still another
    mistake: the knees are not alike, one is bigger than the other\". The artist said
    then commented angrily: \"Go to hell. From the shoelace upwards you know nothing\".
    The cobbler was ridiculed by all around and turned away in a rage. And, says Eliahu
    Bachur, he is afraid that the same will happen to him with this book, the \"Tishbi\".
    Somebody will say: \"What are you doing here? Go back to Hebrew grammar and Massoret.
    Don't deal in what you don\u2019t know and don\u2019t ask to be honored in doing
    so\". Therefore, he was afraid to undertake that work, in which he might fail.
    However, he could not restrain himself and asked God for help in showing him the
    right way. Eliyahu adds that he knows his place and that he may be presumptuous
    in daring to explain all the Hebrew roots, which are not explained elsewhere,
    adding that even to those that had been explained, he was still bringing something
    new from the Gmara and other sources.\r\n \r\nParticularly impressive is the friendship
    and mutual respect that developed between the old Jew and the Christian preacher
    Paulus Fagius in the course of their work together in Isny, about which Eliyahu
    writes in the foreword to the book:\r\n \r\n\"........\u05D5\u05D1\u05D1\u05D5\u05D0\u05D9
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D4\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D1\u05E7\u05E0\u05E7\u05E0\u05D5
    \u05D5\u05DE\u05E6\u05D0\u05EA\u05D9\u05D5 \u05DE\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D9\u05E9\u05DF
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D4\u05D5\u05D2\u05D3 \u05DC\u05D9 \u05D4\u05D7\u05E6\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05D7\u05DB\u05DE\u05EA\u05D5 \u05D5\u05D9\u05D3\u05D9\u05E2\u05EA\u05D5,
    \u05D5\u05E8\u05D1\u05D9\u05DD \u05E9\u05D5\u05D0\u05D1\u05D9\u05DD \u05DE\u05D9
    \u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05EA\u05D5, \u05D5\u05D3\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9 \u05D8\u05D5\u05D1
    \u05DC\u05E2\u05DE\u05D5, \u05E0\u05D0\u05D4 \u05D3\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9 \u05D5\u05E0\u05D0\u05D4
    \u05DE\u05E4\u05E8\u05E9  ...........\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D5
    \u05D4\u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D4\u05D6\u05D4 \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D7\u05D9\u05D1\u05E8\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D5\u05D4\u05DB\u05D9\u05E8 \u05E8\u05D5\u05D1 \u05D8\u05D5\u05D1\u05D5 \u05D5\u05EA\u05D5\u05E2\u05DC\u05EA\u05D5,
    \u05E0\u05D6\u05D3\u05E8\u05D6 \u05DE\u05D0\u05D3 \u05D5\u05D4\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9\u05E7
    \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D5 \u05DC\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05DC\u05D0\u05D8\u05D9\u05DF
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05E7\u05E8\u05D0\u05D5 \u05E7\u05D3\u05DE\u05D5\u05E0\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05DF \u05E8\u05D5\u05DE\u05D9 \u05D5\u05D7\u05D9\u05D1\u05E8
    \u05E9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D4\u05DC\u05E9\u05D5\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA \u05D9\u05D7\u05D3
    \u05D5\u05E0\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD \u05E2\u05D9\u05D5\u05E0\u05E0\u05D5 \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9\u05D5
    \u05D1\u05DB\u05DC \u05DE\u05D0\u05DE\u05E6\u05D9 \u05DB\u05D5\u05D7\u05E0\u05D5,
    \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05E6\u05D3 \u05D0\u05D7\u05D3 \u05D5\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05E6\u05D3 \u05D0\u05D7\u05E8. \u05D5\u05E0\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9
    \u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05DC\u05D5\u05D4\u05D9\u05D5 \u05E9\u05D9\u05E6\u05DC\u05D9\u05D7
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05DE\u05DC\u05D0\u05DB\u05EA\u05E0\u05D5 .........\"\r\n \r\n\u201C\u2026And
    when I came hither I wondered about his character, and I found him full of wisdom,
    and I had not been informed about the breadth of his knowledge, and many come
    to learn from him, and he performs good deeds, in sickness and in health\u2026
    And when he saw the book which I had written he recognized its worth, and hastened
    to translate it into Latin, which was the language of ancient Rome, and together
    we made connections between the two languages, he on the one hand and I on the
    other, and each one of us sought guidance and help from his God.\" (my emphasis,
    D.Y.)\r\n\r\n\r\nBeing a devoted Christian Pastor, Fagius didn't abandon his missionary
    vision and one of the books he printed in Isny, \u2018The Book of Belief\u2019
    (Sefer Amana), is unmistakably a missionary tract. The book was published in two
    versions, Hebrew and Latin. In the introduction to the Hebrew edition Paulus Fagius
    wrote in Hebrew: \u201CThe Book of Belief is a goodly and pleasant book which
    was written by a wise Israelite a few years ago in order to teach and prove quite
    clearly that the belief of Messianic in the Lord the father, his son, and the
    holy spirit, and other things is entire, correct and without doubt\u2026\u201D.
    We can only imagine how uncomfortable Eliahu Bachur felt in proofreading this
    book.\r\n\r\n \r\nNow, as was customary in those days when printers took pride
    in their work, Paulus Fagius placed a colophon at the end of the books he printed
    with his printer\u2019s emblem, an elaborate and beautiful woodcut of a tree surrounded
    by verses, which he regarded as his motto in life. Among them was one verse, which
    appeared with slight variations in most of the books that were printed at Isny:\"\u05EA\u05E7\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D1\u05DE\u05E9\u05D9\u05D7 \u05D4\u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05D7 \u05E9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05E2\u05EA\u05D9\u05D3 \u05DC\u05D3\u05D5\u05DF \u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD \u05D5\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9\u05DD\"
    \u201CMy hope is in the Messiah who was sent (\u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05D7) and who
    will judge the living and dead.\u201D\r\n \r\nAs stated, \u2018The Book of Belief\u2019
    appeared in Hebrew, apparently intended for the Jews, and in Latin for the Christians.
    The Latin version ends with the verse cited above, while at the end of the Hebrew
    version the printer\u2019s emblem appears with a slight difference, which is not
    immediately discernible:\r\n \r\n\u05EA\u05E7\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D1\u05DE\u05E9\u05D9\u05D7
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05DA \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05DC\u05D3\u05D5\u05DF \u05D0\u05EA \u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD \u05D5\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9\u05DD\r\n
    \ \r\nMy hope is in the Messiah who was dismissed (\u05D4\u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05DA)
    and who will come to judge the living and dead.\r\n\r\nThere can be no doubt that
    this is no printer\u2019s error but a subtle message sent by Eliyahu Bachur in
    his capacity as the book\u2019s proofreader to his Jewish brethren down the ages,
    saying: \u201CI have not betrayed. You know what I think about this\u201D. I noticed
    this subtle difference when I examined the books, which are kept in the amazingly
    well preserved study of Paulus Fagius next to the Church of Saint Nicholas in
    Isny, where he preached nearly 500 years ago. When I brought it to the attention
    of the extremely kind priest who escorted me and who now occupies Fagius's chair,
    he was very surprised and, I fear, somewhat offended. \r\n\r\nEliyahu Bachur was
    attuned to the need to disseminate knowledge not only to the educated Jewish elite
    but also to the general Jewish community, men and women. Therefore, another book,
    which Eliyahu Bachur printed in Isny in the year 1541, was 'Bovo d'Antona', a
    popular adventure novel about knights, which he translated into the Judeo-German
    dialect, Ivri Teitsch (western Yiddish From the introduction he wrote to the book,
    we learn about the status of women in Jewish society at that time and about their
    reading habits. In rhymed introduction, he tells all righteous women\"\u05D0\u05D9\u05DA
    \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4 \u05DC\u05D5\u05D9 \u05D3\u05E2\u05E8 \u05E9\u05E8\u05D9\u05D9\u05D1\u05E8,
    \u05D3\u05D9\u05E0\u05E8 \u05D0\u05DC\u05E8 \u05D5\u05E8\u05D5\u05DE\u05DF \u05D5\u05D5\u05D9\u05D1\u05E8\"
    that there are women who complain that he does not print for them in Ivri Teitsch
    the books that he has written, and they are right. And since he has written eight
    or nine books in Hebrew and since he is now rather old, he wishes to publish all
    these books and poetry in Ivri-Teitsch. The first of which will be the \"Bovo
    Buch,\" which he translated from Italian thirty-four years earlier. Since this
    translation contains words in Italian, he will print a glossary at the end of
    the book explaining their meaning [and so he did, D.Y.]. Naturally he cannot transmit,the
    melody by which the book should be read. \"\u05D0\u05D9\u05DA \u05D6\u05D9\u05E0\u05D2
    \u05E2\u05E9 \u05DE\u05D9\u05D8 \u05D0\u05D9\u05D9\u05E0\u05DD \u05D5\u05E2\u05DC\u05E9\u05DF
    \u05D2\u05D9\u05D6\u05E0\u05E7, \u05E7\u05D0\u05DF \u05E2\u05E8 \u05D3\u05E8\u05D5\u05D9\u05E3
    \u05DE\u05DB\u05DF \u05D0\u05D9\u05D9\u05DF \u05D1\u05D9\u05E1\u05E8\u05DF, \u05D6\u05D0
    \u05D4\u05D1 \u05E2\u05E8 \u05D3\u05D0\u05E0\u05E7\" . He himself sings it in
    the Italian melody but everyone can adapt a better melody to the text, as he wishes.
    At the end of the book, Eliyahu Bachur adds that he hopes to print more books
    in Ivri Teitsch, but apparently he did not, or perhaps no copy has reached us.
    Of the 'Bovo d'Antona' book, only a single copy (Unicum) survives, which is preserved
    in the Zurich Public Library. However, the book was so popular at the time that
    its name has given rise to the expression that we use still today, \"Bobe Meise\"
    in the sense of silly, nonsense tale.\r\n \r\nThe book 'Meturgaman', (\"Translator\"),
    which Eliyahu Bachur composed and printed in Isny in 1542, was intended to be
    a dictionary which \"Will explain all words, difficult and easy alike, which appear
    in the Aramaic translations of the bible and Talmud Yerushalmi\". To the book
    Eliyahu Bachur added a colophon, which sheds light on a touching side of his personality.
    In the colophon Eliyahu printed a delicate and sweet love song to his wife whom
    he had left behind in Venice:\r\n \r\n\"\u05D5\u05D4\u05E0\u05D4 \u05DE\u05D0\u05D7\u05E8
    \u05E9\u05E7\u05E4\u05E6\u05D4 \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05D4\u05D6\u05D9\u05E7\u05E0\u05D4
    / \u05D5\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9  \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9 \u05D6\u05E7\u05DF \u05D5\u05DB\u05D1\u05D3
    \u05DE\u05D0\u05D3 / \u05D5\u05DE\u05D9\u05D3\u05D9 \u05D9\u05D5\u05DD \u05D9\u05D5\u05DD
    \u05EA\u05DB\u05D4\u05D4 \u05E2\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9 \u05D5\u05E0\u05E1 \u05DC\u05D9\u05D7\u05D9
    / \u05D0\u05E9\u05D5\u05D1 \u05DE\u05E6\u05D1\u05D0 \u05D4\u05E2\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3\u05D4
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D0\u05E2\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3 \u05E2\u05D5\u05D3 / \u05D5\u05D0\u05DC\u05DA
    \u05DC\u05D9 \u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05E8\u05E6\u05D9 \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D9\u05E6\u05D0\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05E9\u05DD / \u05D4\u05D9\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D3\u05D9\u05E0\u05EA \u05D5\u05D5\u05E0\u05E6\u05D9\u05D4/
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA \u05D1\u05E2\u05D9\u05E8\u05D9 \u05E2\u05DD \u05D0\u05E9\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D4\u05D6\u05E7\u05E0\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D0\u05E0\u05D9\u05D3 \u05E2\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05E8\u05D2\u05DC \u05DE\u05DE\u05E0\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05D4\u05D9\u05D0 \u05EA\u05E9\u05EA
    \u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D9\u05E0\u05D4 / \u05D5\u05E8\u05E7 \u05D4\u05DE\u05D5\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05D9\u05E4\u05E8\u05D9\u05D3 \u05D1\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9 \u05D5\u05D1\u05D9\u05E0\u05D4/
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05E9\u05D1 \u05E9\u05DD \u05DB\u05DC \u05D9\u05DE\u05D9 \u05D7\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9/
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05E9\u05DC\u05D9\u05DD \u05D7\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05E8 \u05D4\u05E1\u05E4\u05E8\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D4\u05D7\u05D9\u05DC\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9/  \u05D0\u05D6 \u05D0\u05D5\u05DE\u05E8
    \u05DC\u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D9\u05E6\u05E8 \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9/
    \ \u05E7\u05D7 \u05E0\u05D0 \u05D0\u05EA \u05D7\u05D9\u05D9 \u05DB\u05D9 \u05D8\u05D5\u05D1
    \u05DE\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9\".\r\n \r\nThe song is translated here without modifications
    or explanations, though the charming wording in Hebrew is lost:\r\n \r\n\"And
    since I became old and heavy, and each day my eye sight weakens and my strength
    is leaving me, I shall retire from work and go back to the homeland that I left,
    the land of Venice, and die there with my old wife, and I shall never move again
    from her, and she will keep an eye on me and only death shall part us, and I shall
    live there the rest of my life and complete the books which I have already started
    to write. Then I shall ask the Lord who created me: take my life, it is better
    that I die\".\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\nAnd in another song below this one, the old scholar
    summarize his life and work in most touching words:\r\n\r\n                           \r\n\"\u05D4\u05DC\u05DC
    \u05D0\u05DC \u05D0\u05DC \u05D4\u05DE\u05DC\u05DA \u05E0\u05D0\u05DE\u05DF              \u05D0\u05D1\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5
    \u05D4\u05D0\u05D1 \u05D4\u05E8\u05D7\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05E9\u05D4\u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05E2\u05D3 \u05D4\u05D2\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9                       \u05E2\u05EA\u05D4
    \u05D0\u05DC \u05D6\u05D4 \u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05DD \u05D5\u05D6\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4
    \u05D0\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05E2\u05D3 \u05E0\u05D8\u05E2\u05EA\u05D9                     \u05D6\u05D4
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D8\u05E2 \u05E0\u05D8\u05E2 \u05E0\u05E2\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D1\u05D5
    \u05E0\u05D2\u05DC\u05D5\u05EA \u05DB\u05DC \u05D4\u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D5\u05EA
    \                   \u05D4\u05E2\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA \u05E2\u05DD \u05EA\u05E8\u05D2\u05D5\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D2\u05DD
    \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4 \u05D1\u05D2\u05D9\u05DC\u05D9\u05D5\u05DF
    \                  \u05D0\u05D9\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D7\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05DF \u05D5\u05DE\u05E7\u05D5\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05DB\u05DE\u05DC\u05D9\u05E5 \u05E9\u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05DE\u05DE\u05DC\u05D9\u05E5
    \             \u05D5\u05D1\u05D8\u05D5\u05D1 \u05DE\u05D9\u05DC\u05D9\u05DF \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0
    \u05DE\u05D8\u05E2\u05D9\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D5\u05D9\u05D9 \u05E9\u05D5\u05DB\u05DF
    \u05E9\u05DE\u05D9\u05DD                              \u05D5\u05DE\u05DE\u05E0\u05D5
    \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8 \u05DC\u05D0 \u05E0\u05D8\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D9\u05D3\u05E2
    \u05DB\u05D9 \u05DC\u05D0 \u05E2\u05E9\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9 \u05D6\u05D0\u05EA                 \u05DC\u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA
    \u05E0\u05E7\u05E8\u05D0 \u05E8\u05D1 \u05D0\u05D5 \u05D0\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05DB\u05D9
    \u05D4\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA\u05DF \u05DC\u05DB\u05E1\u05D9\u05DC \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3
    \                  \u05DB\u05E6\u05E8\u05D5\u05E8 \u05D0\u05D1\u05DF \u05EA\u05D5\u05DA
    \u05D0\u05E8\u05D2\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05DC\u05D0\u05DC \u05D1\u05DC\u05D1\u05D3
    \u05E0\u05D0\u05D4 \u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3                   \u05D5\u05DC\u05D6\u05D5\u05DC\u05EA\u05D5
    \u05D4\u05D0 \u05DC\u05D9\u05DB\u05D0 \u05DE\u05D0\u05DF\r\n\u05D4\u05DF \u05DC\u05DB\u05D1\u05D5\u05D3\u05D5
    \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0\u05D4\u05D1\u05EA\u05D5                     \u05D1\u05DC\u05D1\u05D3
    \u05E8\u05E9\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9 \u05E8\u05D9\u05E9\u05D5\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D0\u05E0\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9 \u05DC\u05D9 \u05D5\u05DC\u05D0\u05E9\u05EA\u05D9                     \u05D4\u05D7\u05E1\u05D3
    \u05D2\u05DD \u05D4\u05D0\u05DE\u05EA \u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05E9\u05D4\u05D9\u05D0
    \u05DC\u05D0 \u05EA\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D0\u05DC\u05DE\u05E0\u05D4               \u05D5\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05DC\u05D0 \u05D0\u05D4\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D0\u05DC\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D9\u05D7\u05D3
    \u05E0\u05DE\u05D5\u05EA \u05D5\u05D1\u05D2\u05DF \u05E2\u05D3\u05E0\u05D5\u05EA
    \                 \u05EA\u05D5\u05DA \u05D7\u05D9\u05E7\u05D4 \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9\u05DF
    \u05E2\u05D3 \u05DC\u05D6\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D9\u05D1\u05D5\u05D0 \u05D4\u05E7\u05E5
    \u05D5\u05D0\u05D6\u05D9 \u05E0\u05E7\u05D9\u05E5                     \u05D5\u05DC\u05D7\u05D9\u05D9
    \u05E2\u05D3 \u05D9\u05D7\u05D3 \u05E0\u05D6\u05D3\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D5\u05D1\u05DB\u05DA
    \u05EA\u05DE\u05D5 \u05D2\u05DD \u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05DE\u05D5                    \u05D3\u05D1\u05E8\u05D9
    \u05D4\u05E9\u05D9\u05E8\u05D4 \u05E2\u05D3 \u05EA\u05D5\u05DE\u05DF\r\n\u05D5\u05D0\u05E0\u05D9
    \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4 \u05D4\u05DE\u05D7\u05D1\u05E8                       \u05DC\u05E4\u05E8\u05D8
    \u05D6\u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05E9\u05E0\u05D4 \u05E1\u05D9\u05DE\u05DF\"\r\n \r\nEliyahu
    Bachur's wish was only partly fulfilled. He returned to Venice after the short-lived
    printing house in Isny closed down, and even though he edited and proofread a
    few more books for printers who replaced Bomberg's enterprise, his strength continued
    to weaken. His long time co-worker in the printing business, Cornelio Adelkind
    in a letter to the humanist Andrea Masius in 1547 calls Eliyahu \u05D0\u05D9\u05E9
    \u05E2\u05E8\u05D9\u05E8\u05D9 (Lonely man) which implies that his wife passed
    away few years before him. Eliyahu Bachur died in the month of Shevat in the year
    Shin Tet (1549) and was buried in the old Jewish cemetery in the isle of Lido
    near Venice. The headstone on his grave is still to be seen. I visited his grave,
    put a little stone on it and read the engraved epitaph, which includes sophisticated
    wording and allusions in Hebrew. This and the fact that the epitaph does not refer
    to the day of his death may suggest that he composed the text himself:\r\n \r\n\u05E9\"\u05D8
    \u05DC\u05E4\"\u05E7\r\n\u05E8' \u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5 \u05D4\u05DC\u05D5\u05D9
    \u05D1\u05D7\u05D5\u05E8 \u05D5\u05DE\u05D3\u05E7\u05D3\u05E7\r\n \r\n\u05D4\u05DC\u05D0
    \u05D0\u05D1\u05DF \u05D1\u05E7\u05D9\u05E8 \u05EA\u05D6\u05E2\u05E7 \u05D5\u05EA\u05D4\u05DE\u05D4
    \u05DC\u05DB\u05DC \u05E2\u05D5\u05D1\u05E8\r\n\u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05D6\u05D0\u05EA
    \u05D4-\u05E7\u05D1\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4\r\n\u05E2\u05DC\u05D9 \u05E8\u05D1\u05DF-\u05D0\u05E9\u05E8
    \u05E0\u05DC\u05E7\u05D7 \u05D5\u05E2\u05DC\u05D4 \u05D1\u05E9\u05DE\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD\r\n\u05D0\u05DC\u05D9-\u05D9\u05D4
    \u05D1-\u05E1\u05E2\u05E8\u05D4\r\n\u05D4\u05DC\u05D0 \u05D4\u05D5\u05D0 \u05D6\u05D4
    \u05D0\u05E9\u05E8 \u05D4\u05D0\u05D9\u05E8 \u05D1\u05D3\u05E7\u05D3\u05D5\u05E7
    \u05D0\u05E4\u05DC\u05EA\u05D5\r\n\u05D5\u05E9\u05DD \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D5
    \u05DC\u05D0\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4\r\n\u05E9\u05E0\u05EA \u05E9\u05D8 \u05E9\u05D8
    \u05D1\u05D7\u05D3\u05E9 \u05E9\u05D1\u05D8 \u05D1\u05E1\u05D5\u05E4\u05D5, \u05D5\u05E0\u05E4\u05E9\u05D5
    \u05D1\r\n\u05D1\u05E6\u05E8\u05D5\u05E8 \u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD \u05E6\u05E8\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4\r\n
    \r\nIt was impossible to translate the delicate playing in words that is concealed
    through the epitaph. The text below is only a shadow of its poetic brilliance.\r\n
    \r\nShin Tet le Prat Katan\r\nRabbi Eliyahu Halevi Bachur And Grammarian\r\n \r\nA
    stone from wall will cry and moan to every passer by\r\nOn this grave\r\nOn rabbi
    Eliyahu who went to heaven\r\nTo God by a storm\r\nHe is the one who lightened
    the darkness of [Hebrew] grammar\r\nAnd put it to light\r\nYear Shin Tet at the
    end of the month of Shevat and his soul\r\nIn the bonds of life be bound\r\n\r\nS.
    \r\n>He was born in southern Germany in 1469  \r\n \r\nIf I am not mistaken this
    biograpical fact is not established. He may have been born in Italy.  \r\n \r\nI'm
    also suprised that you didn't note that Tishbi is not only an allusion to the
    author's name, but the gematriya of 712, the number of entries in the book, as
    you mentioned.  \r\n \r\nAs for the dual language of Sefer Amanah, we should not
    be so sure that the Hebrew was intended for Jews and the Latin for Christians.
    After all, we are right in the middle of a period of intense Christian interest
    in and cultivation of Hebrew. The Hebrew could as well have been intended for
    Christians, or even was simply a scholarly exercise/ show off piece on the part
    of the author.  \r\n \r\nGreat find regarding the difference in the text. Pretty
    ballsy of Bachur.  \r\n \r\nThanks for including the picture of his headstone
    - awesome.\r\nMonday, December 20, 2010, 18:15:57 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDan
    Yardeni \r\nAs far as I know, Eliyahu was born in the little village Ipsheim near
    Neustadt in southern Germany, not too far from Nuernberg.  \r\n \r\nI well new
    the fact that Thisbi counts in Gimatria 712. In fact, in the title page of the
    book Eliyahu writes in \"Kisush Levana\" letters: \u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D4\u05EA\u05E9\u05D1\u05D9
    \u05DC\u05D0\u05DC\u05D9\u05D4\u05D5 \u05D4\u05EA\u05E9\u05D1\u05D9, \u05E9\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05D5
    \u05DB\u05DE\u05E0\u05D9\u05DF \u05EA\u05E9\u05D1\u05D9\"  but I thought it would
    be too much. Possibly I was wrong.\r\nWednesday, December 22, 2010, 17:43:30 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nS. \r\nOf course you knew it - I meant that you neglected
    to point it out! This would not be obvious to some readers without pointing it
    out.  \r\n \r\nAs for his place of birth, I stand corrected. I don't remember
    the bibliography but I think the supposition that he was actually born in Germany
    was originally based on his signature, Ashkenazi. But of course that could also
    mean that his father was born in Germany. However, I now see that Gerard Weil
    found documentary support asserting that he was born in Ipsheim.\r\nThursday,
    December 23, 2010, 10:00:19 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nwolf2191 \r\nThanks
    for a great post. Bachur liked to put hidden anti-chirstian stuff in his works.
    I noted one at 2 here - http://ishimshitos.blogspot.com/2008/07/cryptic-anti-christian-polemic.html
    . I'd love to see more if they exist\r\nMonday, December 20, 2010, 18:55:31 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\nLiked byDan Yardeni\r\nGuest\r\n\r\nDan Yardeni \r\nI looked
    through the Tishbi book and found out that your idea about putting \u05D9\u05EA\u05D5\u05E9
    before \u05D9\u05E9\u05D5 meant to ridicule him may not be the case. I counted
    similar couples of words: \u05D0\u05DF\u05DF\u05D6 before \u05D0\u05D3\u05E7,
    \ \r\nthen \u05D0\u05E9\u05E4\u05D6 before \u05D0\u05E9\u05DB\u05E0\u05D6, then
    \u05D2\u05D9\u05D2\u05D9\u05EA before \u05D2\u05D0\u05D5\u05DF, then \u05D2\u05D9\u05D4\u05E0\u05DD
    before \u05D2\u05D5\u05D9 and \u05D2\u05D9\u05DF before \u05D2\u05D9\u05D9\u05E1.
    And there are more. Why Eliyahu didn't adhere to the alphabetical order, I don't
    know.  \r\nWednesday, December 22, 2010, 18:04:09 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nYisrael
    Medad \r\nYour translation of this:    \u05DE\u05D4 \u05E9\u05D2\u05D9\u05EA\u05D9
    \u05D9\u05D1\u05D9\u05DF \u05D0\u05D5\u05EA\u05D9  is If I erred, please  show
    me where .  Could it not be \"if I've erred, be understanding of me\"?\r\nTuesday,
    December 21, 2010, 02:28:30 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDan Yardeni \r\nYour
    idea is interesting but in my opinion it doesn't go well with the later part of
    the sentence. Eliyahu doesn't look for sympathy but challenges his opponent.\r\nWednesday,
    December 22, 2010, 18:13:07 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nN. \r\nDoes not \u05E2\u05E8\u05D9\u05E8\u05D9
    mean childless (Gen. 15: 2)?  \r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 08:20:14 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDan Yardeni \r\nNot in this context. We know that Eliyahu
    had at least one daughter and grandchildren, so Cornelio apparenty meant widower.\r\nWednesday,
    December 22, 2010, 18:18:13 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nN. \r\nGreat article.
    I also noticed you didn't mention the famous Rabbis that endorsed him. Well, the
    Pri Megadim was a great admirer of his - see his \"letters\" - printed at the
    back of the Shulchan Aruch (O.C. vol I, Machon Yerushalaim) where he recommends
    R' Eliahu's books and quotes from them extensively.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010,
    08:24:56 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\nLiked byGuest\r\n\r\nYehuda \r\nVenice 1938...
    huh?\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 10:28:37 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDan
    Yardeni \r\nA typographical mistake. Of course it should be 1538\r\nWednesday,
    December 22, 2010, 18:22:57 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nMechy Frankel \r\nEliahu
    Bachur's unusual name is due to the fact that he remained a bachelor for a long
    time, and later adopted the epithet in the sense of Bachur \u2013 Chosen (see
    his preface to Sefer HaBachur, Isny 1542 where he explains the name of the book
    and comments:  \".... \u05D4\u05D9\u05D5\u05EA \u05E9\u05DD \u05DB\u05D9\u05E0\u05D5\u05D9\u05D9
    \u05DE\u05E9\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4 \u05D5\u05D1\u05E9\u05DD \u05D1\u05D7\u05D5\u05E8
    \u05DE\u05DB\u05D5\u05E0\u05D4 ....  \r\n \r\nHis preface provides three different
    suggestions for naming the work \u201CBochur\u201D, the first of which could be
    interpreted as related to \u201Cchosen\u201D \u2013 but that epithet relates to
    the book name, not himself.  The third suggestion he offers for naming the book
    does mention it\u2019s related to his name.  But all he says about that is an
    acknowledgement that his name is unusual, his unusual appellation is not \u201Cexplained\u201D
    \u2013 there or elsewhere So the notion that his name was meant to commemorate
    his extended bachlerhood is entirely conjectural, not factual.  For that matter,
    we have no idea when he may have gotten married, so a putative extensive bachlerhood
    is itself entirely a conjecture.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 11:41:20 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nvisitor \r\nDan,  Thanks much for translating the hebrew
    passages.  It would be great if all contributors to this website would do the
    same.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 12:26:32 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDF
    \r\nExcellent article. But the appelation of \"ariri\" as traditionally understood
    is specifically \"childless\", not \"lonely.\"  \r\nBy the way - why would you
    point out the Bachur's trick to the priest now occupying the Fagius chair? It's
    a great find on your part, but would think something that should not have been
    advertised to an older Christian.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 12:56:23 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nS. \r\nWhile I agree that one should be cordial to be
    people rather than offensive, I suspect that the holder of Fagius's chair has
    a perception of Levita as a docile house Jew. A good Jew, who taught the Christians
    how to do Hebrew even better than the Jews to a certain degree, and an ecumenical
    one. Fagius was aggressively missionary - but that's okay, right? Here we see
    that such a perception is not wholly accurate.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010,
    13:21:52 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDF \r\nYou may be right. (Mencken) The
    writer did say the old priest was \"exceptionally kind\" tho. Either way, a nice
    little vitz. Ranks right up there with the Magen Dovid on the Iranian Airlines
    building.\r\nTuesday, December 21, 2010, 16:16:08 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nFRISCOSAN
    \r\nIt always fills me with joy to encounter enlightened Jews and enlightened
    Christians who take joy in doing good works together despite the condemnations
    of the \"grandest of authorities\". As a Christian I am always hungry for the
    fascinating insights of Judaism which do so much to help me understand my own
    chosen faith. The revelation that cooperative good works have been done perhaps
    from the beginning by loving and gentle Jews and Christians under the very noses
    of the whited sepulchers of ossified authority is a glad revelation indeed! It
    has been explained to me that Hashem needs two witnesses to His Messianic truth
    at the end of time and for that reason one of the witnesses was blinded that when
    they do see and bear witness it will be an unassailable testament. I ponder this
    wonderful possibility in my heart.\r\nWednesday, December 22, 2010, 10:21:31 \u2013
    Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nGotthold Ephraim Lessing \r\nEnlightened Christians don't
    think Jews are blind witnesses, let alone call them that publicly.\r\nWednesday,
    December 22, 2010, 13:15:46 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nBenny \r\n\"He dared
    to state, in face of virulent opposition from leading orthodox rabbis\" - I don't
    think there were \"orthodox\" rabbis back in the 16th century.\r\nWednesday, December
    22, 2010, 15:54:50 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nDan Yardeni \r\nSurely not
    in the connotation we attribute today to the word \"Orthodox\"\r\nWednesday, December
    22, 2010, 18:30:30 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nS. \r\nAlso, was there really
    such heated opposition? There were responses from Azariah de Rossi and Samuel
    Archivolti, and of course, he did not change the accepted traditional opinion,
    but where is the record of virulent opposition about the points?\r\nThursday,
    December 23, 2010, 10:02:04 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nploni \r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Elia-Levita-Bachurs-Bovo-Buch-Introduction/dp/1587361604/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1293147006&sr=8-1\r\nThursday,
    December 23, 2010, 18:30:26 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nYehuda_R \r\nI see
    another difference between the colphons on the Latin and Hebrew versions. The
    one on the Latin version has \u05DC\u05D3\u05D9\u05DF \u05D0\u05EA \u05D4\u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD
    \u05D5\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9\u05DD while the Hebrew version has \u05DC\u05D3\u05D5\u05DF
    \u05D0\u05EA \u05D7\u05D9\u05D9\u05DD \u05D5\u05DE\u05EA\u05D9\u05DD. Perhaps
    he is alluding to the pasiuk \u05DC\u05D0 \u05D9\u05D3\u05D5\u05DF \u05E8\u05D5\u05D7\u05D9
    \u05D1\u05D0\u05D3\u05DD which according to one of the definitions mentioned in
    \u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D4\u05DE\u05DB\u05DC\u05D5\u05DC \u05DE\u05D4\u05E8\u05D3\"\u05E7
    is related to \u05DE\u05D3\u05D5\u05DF \u05D5\u05DE\u05E8\u05D9\u05D1\u05D4. R
    Elyahu Bachur is hiniting that he will come back to fight together with the living
    and dead, i.e. to be judged with them.\r\nThursday, December 23, 2010, 18:38:47
    \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nMBA \r\nat least one christian scholar took the
    advice of the Bachur and applied the RMBM addage to paulus here http://books.google.com/books?id=hcY5AAAAcAAJ&pg=PA260&dq=Paulus+Fagius&hl=en&ei=Iq8UTYryDIK8sQPt9e2sCg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CEkQ6AEwCDgK#v=onepage&q=Paulus%20Fagius&f=false\r\nFriday,
    December 24, 2010, 09:43:25 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nlitvak \r\nThe author
    neglected to mention that two of R' Eliyahu Bachur's grandchildren apostatized
    and converted to Christianity. Who knows, maybe such close ties to Christians
    caused it.\r\nMonday, December 27, 2010, 16:16:17 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nMendy
    \r\nBeautiful piece; excellent scholarship.  And thanks for the translations!\r\nFriday,
    December 31, 2010, 09:50:00 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nrabbi@ilfordsynagogue.co.uk
    \r\nA beautiful and fascinating article, moving and enlightening - thank you!\r\nSaturday,
    January 01, 2011, 20:59:24 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nMichael T. Walton \r\nI
    enjoyed your piece. There is a problem, however, with your reading of the colophon.
    Anthonius Margaritha, a meshumad, ends his Der Gantz Judish Glaub (1530) with
    \"my hope is in the Moshiach who has been sent (b'nishlach). \" \"Mein hoffnung
    ist in Moschiach/ der gesendet ist worden.\"\r\nSaturday, January 01, 2011, 21:15:46
    \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nMichael T. Walton \r\nSorry--not b-nishlach, but
    h'nishlach.\r\nSaturday, January 01, 2011, 21:18:45 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nFailed
    Messiah \r\nI think what M Walton is saying is that , the message might be the
    opposite of what Dan Yarden is suggesting  , and his hope is in the Messiah that
    was  dismissed (\u05D4\u05E0\u05E9\u05DC\u05DA)  by the rabbis but will come back
    etc. this is not a a message from Levitas making a mockery of his employer , rather
    it is a message from Paulus Fagius , that the person that was rejected as the
    messiah will one day return etc. I am sure that Levitas did not share Fagius's
    intention , however  I dont think there is any proof for what Yardeni is suggesting.\r\nSaturday,
    January 08, 2011, 23:29:45 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nTzemachYosifun \r\nBH
    \ \r\n \r\nYou write \"the fact that the epitaph does not refer to the day of
    his death may suggest that he composed the text himself\".  \r\n \r\nHowever,
    it seems that the date does appear, as it says the end of the month of Shvat,
    and the year. If it was written by Eliyahu himself he surely would have not written
    the month. And if someone else wrote the month, why would he skip the day, unless
    \"the end of the month\" actually means the last day of the month. Another possibility
    would be that this is not the original headstone - perhaps it was renewed years
    later, and date was lost in the midst, as commonly occures.  \r\n \r\nYou also
    copied the epipath as below, and I was wondering why the repeat of the year count,
    is it a typo?  \r\n   \r\n\r\n\u05E9\u05E0\u05EA \u05E9\u05D8 \u05E9\u05D8 \u05D1\u05D7\u05D3\u05E9
    \u05E9\u05D1\u05D8 \u05D1\u05E1\u05D5\u05E4\u05D5,   \r\n\r\nThursday, February
    10, 2011, 08:56:54 \u2013 Like \u2013 Reply\r\n\r\nTzemachYosifun \r\nBH  \r\n
    \r\nAs for Ariri to mean Lonley, see here that Ariri can mean anyone who has only
    daughters, since we know only of R' Eliyahu one daughter, it might have a different
    meaning.  \r\n \r\nhttp://www.otzar.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=7&t=3856 "
  created: '2011-02-24 02:44:00'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Rabbi David Kimchi lived about 400 years earlier, and is known as the Father
    of Hebrew Grammar.\r\n\r\nI found this about the RaDaK (a popular acronym of his
    name) at Wikipedia, at:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Kimhi\r\n\r\nDavid
    Kimhi\r\nFrom Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia\r\n\r\nDavid Kimhi (Hebrew: \u05D3\u05D5\u05D3
    \u05E7\u05DE\u05D7\u05D9\u200E, also Kimchi or Qimchi) (1160\u20131235), also
    known by the Hebrew acronym as the RaDaK (\u05E8\u05D3\"\u05E7), was a medieval
    rabbi, biblical commentator, philosopher, and grammarian. Born in Narbonne, Provence,
    he was the son of Rabbi Joseph Kimhi and the brother of Rabbi Moses Kimhi, both
    biblical commentators and grammarians. Works of the Kimhi family were underwritten
    by the Ibn Yahya family of Lisbon, Portugal.[1]\r\n\r\nDavid Kimhi is best known
    today for his commentaries on the books of the Prophets. He also wrote commentaries
    on the books of Genesis, Psalms, and Chronicles. His work focuses on the language,
    nikkud (vocalization), rabbinic tradition of the reading, grammar, and literal
    meaning of the words. He also addresses key issues such as the authorship of the
    various books and the historical eras in which the prophets were active, as well
    as other historical and geographical questions.\r\n\r\nHis commentary on Genesis
    tends toward the philosophical. He seeks out the ethical underpinnings of the
    stories, believing that they were not included in the text for purely historical
    reasons, but rather for their moral message. He makes extensive use of the ancient
    Targum translation of the text into Aramaic attributed to Jonathan ben Uzziel,
    commenting on it and bringing variant readings. The commentary also includes a
    mystical interpretation of the Garden of Eden and the story of Cain and Abel.
    A similar, mystical interpretation by Kimhi can also be found in his glosses on
    the first chapter of the Book of Ezekiel, describing the Divine Chariot. When
    he does not understand a particular text, he follows the example of Rashi and
    writes, \"I did not understand the reason why this story appears in this particular
    place,\" or \"I did not find a proper reason for it.\"\r\n\r\nKimhi was also a
    noted grammarian. His book, Michlol (\u05DE\u05DB\u05DC\u05D5\u05DC), draws heavily
    on the earlier works of Rabbi Judah ben David Hayyuj and Rabbi Jonah ibn Janah.
    He also composed a dictionary of the Hebrew language called Sefer Hashorashim
    (Book of Roots) (\u05E1\u05E4\u05E8 \u05D4\u05E9\u05D5\u05E8\u05E9\u05D9\u05DD).\r\n\r\nKimhi
    also delved into philosophy and the sciences, and was very much influenced by
    both Abraham Ibn Ezra and Maimonides. He was a staunch defender of Maimonides
    in the debates over his writings.\r\n\r\nReferences\r\n\r\n^ Eric Lawee (2001),
    Isaac Abarbanel's stance toward tradition: defense, dissent, and dialogue, p.
    30. New York: SUNY Press. ISBN 0791451267\r\n[edit]External links\r\n\r\nAbout
    the Radak on OU.org\r\nDavid Kimchi's response to Christianity in his Psalm commentary\r\n\r\nThis
    page was last modified on 18 February 2011 at 12:48.\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nfrom: http://www.chabad.org/library/article_cdo/aid/111880/jewish/Rabbi-David-Kimchi-RaDaK.htm\r\n\r\nRabbi
    David Kimchi - RaDaK\r\n(4920-4995; 1160-1235)\r\n\r\nThe great grammarian and
    scholar Rabbi David Kimchi, was a member of a famous family which greatly enriched
    our Talmudic and Hebrew literature. It was said of this family, (Where there is
    no Kemach - flour [bread] there can be no learning [Torah]), \"were it not for
    the Kimchis, there would be no Torah,\" a saying based on the similarity of the
    name Kimchi with the Hebrew word Kemach.\r\n\r\nRabbi David Kimchi's father, Rabbi
    Joseph Ben Isaac Kimchi, lived in Southern Spain. His writings were among the
    first to introduce the study of Hebrew grammar and culture into Christian Europe.
    Under the cruel persecution of the Almohades, Rabbi Joseph Kimchi migrated north
    to Narbonne in France.\r\n\r\nThe Almohades, a Moorish dynasty in Northern Africa
    and Southern Spain, came to power in the 12th and 13th centuries. In 1146 they
    undertook a fanatical fight to enforce the faith of Islam upon all the peoples
    under their rule. Being fanatical Mohammedans, they destroyed the synagogues and
    churches, forcing both Jews and Christians either to embrace Islam or to migrate.
    Maimonides and his family, were among the exiles who fled from Spain about the
    year 1150. In the year David was born (1160), persecution of the Jews by the Mohammedans
    increased very consider\xADably. In that year the precious and, to the Moslems,
    sacred jewels which were kept in the Mohammedan sanctuary at Mecca, were stolen.
    The Jews were accused of the crime and suffered untold misery for it.\r\n\r\nUnder
    these circumstances, Rabbi Joseph Kimchi took his family and went to France. He
    took with him the great tradition of the Spanish Talmud study, Hebrew language,
    and Hebrew thought, which had given the Spanish Jewish community the \"golden
    era\" for so many years, and set up his new home in Narbonne.\r\n\r\nWhen David
    was about ten years old his father died. David's older brother Rabbi Moses Kimchi,
    also a famous scholar, took over the supervision of the upbringing and education
    of his young brother David. David proved himself a very gifted boy and made great
    headway in all branches of Jewish knowledge. Soon he became known as one of the
    greatest scholars of his time by Jews and non-Jews alike. He was given the honorary
    title of Maestro Petit, which his father had already earned. For centuries, Rabbi
    David Kimchi's work in the field of Hebrew grammar was the basis of the study
    of Hebrew for all non-Jewish scholars.\r\n\r\nWhile still young, Rabbi David Kimchi
    earned his living by teaching the Talmud much in the same way as his father did.\r\n\r\nRabbi
    David Kimchi first became famous by his Michlol (\"Completeness\"), which is like
    an encyclopedia of Hebrew grammar. This grammar had great influence over many
    Christian Hebraists such as Johann Reuchlin, the great humanitarian and champion
    of the Talmud in the middle ages.\r\n\r\nRabbi David Kimchi wrote a great deal
    in defense of Judaism against attacks by members of the Christian church. This
    material was later used extensively by Jewish scholars in disputations with Christians,
    forced upon them by the Church.\r\n\r\nThe RaDaK endeared himself to our people
    by his famous commentary under that name. (RaDaK consists of the initials of his
    name Rabbi David Kimchi). He wrote commentaries on the Prophets, Psalms, and Chronicles,
    and also on the Pentateuch, although of the last of these, only the section of
    Genesis is extant. The RaDaK's commentary enjoyed almost as great popularity as
    that of Rashi. Indeed it is close in nature and style to Rashi's commentaries,
    for his interpretations are also based on reasoning and grammatical rule, in contrast
    to the other great Spanish Bible commentator, Nachmanides, who included deeper
    cabbalistic meanings in his commentaries. The RaDaK's commentaries were greatly
    esteemed by both Jews and Christians; they were translated into Latin by Christian
    scholars, and greatly affected later Bible translations, even the most famous
    one-the King James version.\r\n\r\nIn addition to the Michlol, and his commentary,
    Rabbi David Kimchi wrote the \"Teshuvoth Lanotzrim,\" (Refutation to the Christians),
    refuting all attacks by Christian theologians, and \"Et Hasofer\" (Pen of the
    Scribe), the latter dealing with the writing of Torah scrolls in accordance with
    the true traditions of the Massorah.\r\n\r\nToward the end of his life, Rabbi
    David Kimchi became involved in one of the most vehement struggles within orthodox
    Judaism concerning the work of Maimonides, the \"Moreh Nevuchim.\" Rabbi David
    Kimchi was a devout admirer of the works of the saintly Rambam, including his
    philosophical writings. He even undertook a journey to Spain in an attempt to
    organize the great scholars in defense of Rambam's work. However, on his way he
    took sick in the small town of Avila, and had to return. Soon after, Rabbi David
    Kimchi died at the age of seventy-five."
  created: '2011-02-24 02:53:32'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "It would seem reasonable the Rabbi Zalman Henna disputes or rejects these
    great predecessor's teachings on the subject.\r\n\r\nRather, Rabbi Zalman Henna
    must have clear logical rules for his views, that do not reject their teachings,
    which are few and not explicit.\r\n\r\nWho was the Minchat Shai, and where are
    his teachings to be found, on the subject of shvah-nah, komatz-katan etc.?\r\n\r\nDavid,
    can you answer?"
  created: '2011-02-24 02:59:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Israel: <em>SBL-Hebrew ... features a patach genuvah or furtive patach -
    which is a grammar issue.</em>\r\n\r\nSBL Hebrew has contextual lookups for furtive
    patach because Unicode -- I suspect following the Israeli national standards body
    -- deliberately decided to unify the encoding of normal and furtive patach. One
    may disagree with that decision, but it was made and the unification is part of
    the standard. No such decision has been made regarding the encoding of sheva nah
    because no proposal has been made to Unicode regarding the encoding of this; however,
    if one considers the more recent deliberate dis-unifications  -- qamats gadol
    / qamats qatan and yerah ben yomo / atnah hafukh -- it is clear that Unicode is
    open to encoding such grammatical distinctions (even distinctions that some authors
    and publishers do not observe).\r\n\r\nI too am a practical man, which is why
    I try to avoid building features in fonts until I know what the standard encoding
    should be."
  created: '2011-02-24 04:01:40'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nYour words about shvah-nah are very encouraging, as it seems
    to meet the same criteria for Unicode Consortium as kamatz-katan.\r\n\r\nI agree
    with you about the furtive patach, or patach ganuva, deserving its own Unicode
    code value. But because this did not occur, we have your automatic furtive patach,
    and soon the automatic shvah-nah etc.\r\n\r\nI meant practical is a more \"a need
    for the common user\" sense. Most people have lost shvah-nah and others by the
    Hebrew grammar wayside, they have data that does not adhere to the SBL-Hebrew
    sequence rules, data from Christian and Jewish sources are different in less that
    a dozen instances - these issues can easily be adjusted at the OpenType/Volt level,
    without anyone knowing what's happening. \r\n\r\nI think that we as responsible
    type designers should do so."
  created: '2011-02-24 14:21:50'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "John:  <cite>deliberately decided to unify the encoding of normal and furtive
    patach... however, if one considers the more recent deliberate dis-unifications
    -- qamats gadol / qamats qatan and yerah ben yomo / atnah hafukh</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm
    not sure that dis-unifications  \u2014  normal and furtive patach \u2014 is really
    a good idea; same thing with shva, dagesh... \r\n\r\nWhat about:\r\n\r\n1. Revia
    and Revia Gadol?  \u2014 2 marks\r\n\r\n2. Revia Gadol \u2014 6 marks:\r\n (a)
    Revia gadol in the absence of etnahta & ole-veyored\r\n (b) Medial & final revia
    gadol?\r\n (c) The first revia gadol in the absence of etnahta or ole-veyored?\r\n
    (d) The first revia gadol in verses containing etnahta or ole-veyored?\r\n (e)
    The second revia gadol in verses containing etnahta or ole-veyored?\r\n (f) Revia
    gadol \u2014 adjacent or initial to ole-veyored in verses containing etnahta or
    ole-veyored?\r\n\r\n3. Meteg/Ga'ya & Siluk? \u2014 2 marks\r\n\r\n4. Meteg/Ga'ya
    \u2014 10 marks\r\n\r\n5. Dagesh & Shuruq: vav + dagesh & vav + shuruq? \u2014
    2 marks\r\n\r\n-------\r\n\r\n\r\nIsrael \u2014 just post a direct link."
  created: '2011-02-24 17:36:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Israel: > My intention was merely to cry about the dismal state of Hebrew
    grammar knowledge of this generation...\r\n\r\nYeah, I can see that:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GHgrammar_5223.jpg]"
  created: '2011-02-25 21:48:19'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Communist Russia died in 1991 (http://www.allaboutphilosophy.org/fall-of-communism-in-russia-faq.htm).\r\n\r\nI
    am not a communist. I am a capitalist, like you. \r\n\r\nThe results of creativity
    are sold, like you sell your fonts. So, too, I sell my fonts. The prices are estimated
    by two factors, similar to price setting in any capitalist system.\r\n\r\n1. How
    many products do you expect to sell per year?\r\n2. How much do you expect a customer
    would pay?\r\n\r\nThe purpose of high end commercial fonts which automatically
    place a shvah-nah mark is a break-through, saving many weeks, or even months,
    of labor - besides having all the features of advanced 'intelligent' Open-Type
    fonts.\r\n\r\nWhy is this product needed, and being created at this time?\r\n\r\n\"The
    dismal state of Hebrew grammar knowledge of this generation\". Even great knowledgeable
    giants in Hebrew Grammar lack in knowing the simple rules of shvah-nah. kamatz-katan,
    meteg etc.\r\n\r\nDavid, why do you doubt the motive, because a price is attached
    to the results?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-27 07:14:02'
date: '2010-12-31 14:10:08'
node_type: forum
title: An OpenType Font System for Hebrew Grammar

---
