---
author:
  name: r44mercer
body: "Hey Everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm presently writing a thesis on the emotion of type
  and how we need a revival in Biblical typography and literary type at large. I was
  wondering if any of you have any experience in this or any references of interest.
  I really appreciate any feedback.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\nRyan Mercer\r\n\r\nr44mercer
  (at) yahoo (dot) com"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "The scope of your considerations, as you describe it, seems far too wide
    and vague to get any sensible, usefull answer. How much have you *thought* about
    your theme?\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201DThe emotion of type\u2026\u201C</cite> \u2013 regarding
    everything from the Coke bottle down to the bible page?! Good luck.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u201Dhow
    we need a revival in Biblical typography\u2026\u201C</cite> \u2013 you are postulating
    an assumption by this but without hinting at the reasoning behind it. \r\n\r\nYou
    may want to get a bit more precise upon the actual subject. Biblical typography
    alone is a huge complex subject you\u2019ll hardly pretend to cover as such."
  created: '2011-01-04 16:51:32'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "Here's something I heard a few time but could never actually confirm or source:\r\nThey
    say Luther's Bible, while naturally set in fraktur, used antiqua for passages
    that mentioned hell."
  created: '2011-01-04 17:29:18'
- author:
    name: adamdawkins
  body: "I agree with Nick. As a frequent reader of the Bible, I don't want a revival
    of early Bible Typography, (presuming we're referring to the English/Latin Script,
    and not Hebrew and Greek) I want something readable that fits in with my every
    day life as much as anything else I read.\r\n\r\nSomething I use daily should
    be usable, so the type should be [usable, function &c] too right?"
  created: '2011-01-04 17:39:33'
- author:
    name: Rick H
    picture: 121559
  body: You'll need to specify things like which bible version? Printed in what year?
    Do you mean ones that were copied by hand by scribes? You could look at insular
    text like that found in the Book of Kells which is a copy of the 4 gospels if
    that is what you wanted to focus on.
  created: '2011-01-04 17:41:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think a revival of old-time biblical typography would be any more
    use than reviving the King James translation.\r\nIt's too literary (to use your
    term) for the general class of reader, in particular new readers.\r\nIt would
    be more practical to continue down the progressive road, and produce sans serif
    text typography to accompany translation in modern language.\r\nThe future belongs
    more and more to the sans serif. "
  created: '2011-01-04 17:47:03'
- author:
    name: Bloodtype
    picture: 114182
  body: "<cite>I agree with Nick</cite>\r\nI like the reference. Don't think non-English
    people will get it though!"
  created: '2011-01-04 17:49:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Get this book: http://2krogh.dk/bibles/#/category/other'
  created: '2011-01-04 17:53:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The statement \"how we need a revival in Biblical typography and literary
    type at large\" is indeed an interesting one.\r\n\r\nThe subject of typography
    for the Old Testament in the original Hebrew is a fascinating one, because of
    the complexities introduced by vowel points and Masoretic annotation. But I think
    that what you are talking about is very different from that. However, the situation
    in which Jewish editions of the Tanakh are found provides a hint at the issue.
    In that realm, typefaces of a calligraphic and lapidary nature are often resorted
    to, such as David, Koren, and Hadassah.\r\n\r\nAn English-language edition of
    the Bible, on the other hand, is likely to be set in... the 4 1/2 point size of
    a modern typeface from the 19th Century, some modified Clarendon designed to be
    especially easy to read, or Times (New) Roman.\r\n\r\nMost people, when they read
    narrative fiction, do so in the form of paperbacks which are set in either Times
    Roman or Caledonia.\r\n\r\nImagine the joy of being able to go to a bookstore,
    and pick up a copy of <em>The Lord of the Rings</em> set in Cloister Lightface,
    or something else resembling Morris' Golden type.\r\n\r\nIsn't it time that it
    should be possible to purchase a family Bible that shows that respect - by means
    of care and attention - was given to the Word of God by displaying beautiful typography?
    The choice of face is part of that - Centaur, Bembo, even Garamond are examples
    of choices that would indicate an intent to make the printed page a thing of beauty.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    of course, these days computers make it so easy to accomplish at least some of
    the steps involved in producing masters for a publication that would at least
    resemble a private-press production of yesteryear. The effort is so much less,
    and yet the typography of so many books is bland and nondescript, when it could
    be... a selling point, if nothing else."
  created: '2011-01-04 19:04:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Isn't it time that it should be possible to purchase a family Bible
    that shows that respect - by means of care and attention - was given to the Word
    of God by displaying beautiful typography?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt would be a wasted
    effort. Few people still study the bible by sitting down at a desk with a twenty-pound
    bible in front of them. They do it in groups, in church, whole commuting, or other
    situations that make portability more important than fine typography. Others use
    computers to study multiple digital bibles simultaneously. For the minority who
    actually want a huge, beautiful bible there are plenty of antiques floating around
    in bookstores and various collectible presses crank out good facsimiles of old
    editions."
  created: '2011-01-04 19:13:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "One of the criticisms levelled at the original post is reasonable enough.
    A thesis does need to be more than sitting down at the piano and singing \"We
    need a guy like William Morris again\"... instead, one should investigate why
    it is that, even though much that William Morris produced is acclaimed, attempting
    to follow in his footsteps is not where the action is at present.\r\n\r\nThus,
    the expression of typographic creativity at present is often found in areas like
    advertising and signage. Books, particularly books of any length, remain constrained
    by the cost of paper. If anything, the situation is significantly worse than in
    the 19th Century, given our declining forest resources - thus, the emphasis on
    the use of recycled paper.\r\n\r\nA recent Canadian news story, about temporary
    availability problems for the book \"The Sentimentalists\" by Johanna Skibsrud,
    after it won the Giller Prize, might also be worth looking at as a starting point."
  created: '2011-01-04 19:45:05'
- author:
    name: schickele
    picture: 109579
  body: "<cite>They say Luther's Bible, while naturally set in fraktur, used antiqua
    for passages that mentioned hell.</cite>\r\n\r\nNever heard that. It sounds to
    me like an urban legend. Here is an example of the Luther Bible from 1545 (the
    first complete translation was published in 1534) showing the end of chapter 20
    of the Apocalypse of John:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/40e2938fdd_6554.jpg]\r\n\r\n(Borrowed
    [[http://www.wlb-stuttgart.de/sammlungen/bibeln/bestand/besondere-stuecke/luther-bibel-1545/|here]].
    I didn't find a better version.)\r\n\r\nThe word \xBBHelle\xAB (\xBBhell\xAB;
    \xBBH\xF6lle\xAB in modern German) looks pretty like everything else."
  created: '2011-01-04 20:28:18'
- author:
    name: r44mercer
  body: "First of all, thanks for the useful feedback. I should be more concise in
    how I explain what I'm studying. A brief overview of typographical emotion will
    be discussed leading into the topic of Biblical typography and why it's important.\r\n\r\nDo
    typical reading typefaces (those built for legibility) differ enough to produce
    any substantial psychological response?\r\n\r\nIf so, in a book as important as
    the Bible, why do we continue to put cost over reader response? (I'm using Leeuwen's
    \"Typographical Meaning\" as a basic approach.)\r\n\r\nLastly, I'd like to explore
    experimental typographical layout and see if it's a valid approach to the Bible."
  created: '2011-01-04 20:53:39'
- author:
    name: r44mercer
  body: Also, when I say experimental, I'm referring to the possibility of setting
    certain portions in different typefaces, based on their subject - much like the
    "Luther Legend" referred to on this post. (thanks oprion for bringing that up)
  created: '2011-01-04 20:57:33'
- author:
    name: r44mercer
  body: "Check out http://www.waldenfont.com/downloads/gbpmanual.pdf\r\n\r\nThe third
    page, bottom of fourth paragraph mentions this. Great find oprion!"
  created: '2011-01-04 21:01:40'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@schickele\r\nSupposedly, It was mentioned somewhere by Albert Kapr.\r\n\r\nI'll
    try to find the quote (if it indeed exists)."
  created: '2011-01-04 21:10:06'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>I'll try to find the quote (if it indeed exists).\r\n\r\nWhat I have
    read (on the Spanish translation of Febvre and Martin, <em>L\u2019Apparition du
    Livre</em>, chapter 3) is that the first writings of Luther were published with
    Roman letters, but he decided to switch to Blackletter when he needed to talk
    to his countrymen.\r\n\r\nA not-so-unrelated story: Spaniard scribes preferred
    Blackletter if they were writing in Spanish, but Roman if they were writing in
    Latin (don\u2019t remember my source, though). And I have seen some examples of
    pages in Roman using Blackletter for emphasis, as we use Italics nowadays."
  created: '2011-01-04 23:28:42'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "<em>And I have seen some examples of pages in Roman using Blackletter for
    emphasis, as we use Italics nowadays.</em>\r\n\r\nTschichold gives an example
    of a page from \"Ausfuhrlichen lateinischen Sprachlehre. Leipzig, 1782\" where
    the main text was set in Fraktur, German translations were in Schwabacher, and
    Latin (including Latin roots in german words) rendered in Antiqua."
  created: '2011-01-04 23:37:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Through out most history prior to the modern era, Bibles were set in the writing
    style or type available to Bible producers and approved by client authority.  Today,
    we have hundreds of thousands of options but most Bibles are just printed in the
    most traditional ways because that is what is expected. That also makes some sense
    since the words (barring new translations) are the same as they were for generations.
    I would imagine that if there were enough interest in a more modern typographical
    presentation, that someone could do it and not lose money by printing it. I think
    you need to ask who might be such an audience for the Bible and count heads to
    see if it is worth printing? If your purpose is not that of fulfilling a need
    of readers but fulfilling a desire of producer, then just do it and put it on
    one of the "on demand" publishing places.  You will get what you crave and if
    enough others like what you have done, you will recoup your losses. Otherwise,
    approach assorted Christian groups to see what interest may exist?
  created: '2011-01-04 23:46:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It wouldn't surprise me if the version of the \"Luther Legend\" contained
    in that .PDF about Fraktur were true. Many unusual versions of the Bible have
    been published; one that used an \"Antiqua\" initial letter to begin a chapter
    (or verse) about a negative topic would not be surprising given that Fraktur was
    identified with Lutheranism, and Roman types with its rival, Roman Catholicism.\r\n\r\nAh:
    Google has brought me to the truth. <em>A New History of German Literature</em>
    by Judith Ryan and Hans Ulrich Gumbrecht reveals: \"In the revised German Bible
    of 1541, R\xF6hrer introduced a system of setting some words in Antiqua, others
    all in upper-case Fracture, and the rest in ordinary mixed Fraktur. In an afterword,
    R\xF6hrer explains that whenever scripture speaks of Christ, it is set in upper-case
    Fraktur, whereas passages referring to evil or death are set in Antiqua.\""
  created: '2011-01-05 02:24:27'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Few people still study the bible by sitting down at a \r\n> desk with a
    twenty-pound bible in front of them.\r\n\r\nYep. While there's certainly a market
    for fancy Bibles for church pulpits, presentation copies, etc, most folks want
    something practical and portable. \r\n\r\nI've got 5 or 6 Bibles in my house,
    but the one I use most often is an iPad Bible app which  let's me switch instantly
    between translations."
  created: '2011-01-05 02:26:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I'll bet the iPad version is searchable, too, James? Seems like a good idea
    if you are looking for a particular quote but forgot the specific citation. I
    assume everyone does not know "chapter and verse" :-)
  created: '2011-01-05 03:24:11'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@John\r\n\r\nAnd there it is on the page of the Apocalypse!\r\n\r\nhttp://farm3.static.flickr.com/2539/3865308793_845479b5d3_o.jpg"
  created: '2011-01-05 04:04:48'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "On the topic of experimental bible typography \u2014 look up the \"Revolve\"
    bible. Printed under the title \"Revolve,\" it is, as I understand it, the complete
    bible designed in the style of a teen girl fashion magazine, to appeal to ...
    you guessed it.\r\n\r\nJosh"
  created: '2011-01-05 04:39:54'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">I'll bet the iPad version is searchable, too, James?\r\n\r\nYep, it's searchable,
    can switch instantly between translations and multiple languages, change the font
    size, bookmark passages, take notes, it has daily reading plans, etc.  It's pretty
    nifty.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 06:20:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Typefaces used in my bibles include ITC Slimbach, ITC Weidemann, ITC Stone
    Serif (ITC being a common thread, it seems). The ESV online uses Georgia; well,
    why wouldn't you?
  created: '2011-01-05 10:00:48'
- author:
    name: schickele
    picture: 109579
  body: "@ John and Ivan: very interesting, thank you. I found some other clarifications
    on Google Books:\r\n\r\nGeorg R\xF6rer (without \xBBh\xAB), a collaborator of
    Luther, introduced those typographical distinctions between good and evil in a
    Bible printed in 1541 by Hans Lufft in Wittenberg. Luther disapproved this innovation
    and this is why this typographical rather unique experiment has been withdrawn
    in further versions of Luther's Bible (see Marion Janzin / Joachim G\xFCntner
    (2006): Das Buch vom Buch: 5000 Jahre Buchgeschichte. P. 186).\r\n\r\nI haven't
    found any picture from this Bible yet on Internet. In the example you, Ivan, gave
    us only the word \xBBund\xAB (written \xBBVND\xAB) is set in Antiqua; the word
    \xBBHelle\xAB is clearly set in Fraktur, so I guess this is not the right version.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 11:29:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Looks more like Schwabacher to me.
  created: '2011-01-05 11:48:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It could be the right version: instead of setting the initial letter of the
    verses in question, or the whole verse, in Antiqua, since only chapters really
    have \"initial letters\", perhaps the first word of a verse about evil or death
    was in Antiqua. That would match the photograph.\r\n\r\nHowever, many modern copies
    of the King James Version set words such as \"is\" or \"are\" in italics when
    they are only implied in the original language, so it's possible that in the Bible
    pictured, \"and\" is in all-capitals Antiqua for a similar reason, and this indeed
    is not the right one."
  created: '2011-01-05 12:20:02'
- author:
    name: schickele
    picture: 109579
  body: "<cite>Looks more like Schwabacher to me.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it's a Schwabacher.
    I just wanted to say \xBBnot set in Antiqua\xAB in English.\r\n\r\n@John: You
    could be right. The beginning \xBBVND\xAB, set in Antiqua, could be an indication
    for the following (presumably negative) text. Here is one last example taken from
    a [[http://www.edition-libri-illustri.de/buecher/zerbster.htm|1541 Luther Bible]]
    (Apocalypse 19,9\u201321):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zerbster_bild3_4690.jpg]\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, they are many \xBBVND\xAB all over the text, but only one is set
    in Antiqua in the last paragraph (plus the \xBBV\xAB from the initial \xBBVND\xAB
    of this paragraph). And effectively, this section depicts how the \xBBbeast\xAB
    and it followers are thrown to fire and killed by \xBBthe one sitting on the white
    horse\xAB."
  created: '2011-01-05 13:20:01'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: There is also that German blackletter is not suitable for all-cap setting.
    The less ornate Antiqua is better for that.
  created: '2011-01-05 16:51:01'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite>There is also that German blackletter is not suitable for all-cap setting.
    The less ornate Antiqua is better for that.\r\n\r\nT\xE9: as you can see, the
    printer actually didn\u2019t care about this convention: the page shows five \u201CVND\u201D
    in Blackletter and only one in Roman."
  created: '2011-01-05 17:09:37'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Yeah, part or all-Antiqua "and"s in verses mentioning the Beast; Schwabach
    otherwise. How very immensely bourgeoisly odd.
  created: '2011-01-05 17:23:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It depends what the publisher's agenda is.\r\nSuppose it is to promulgate
    Christian behaviour amongst professed Christians.\r\nTherefore, determine which
    edition of the Bible various Christians use, and correlate this against a measure
    of Christianity, such as church attendance, charity contribution, or adherence
    to the 10 Commandments.\r\nThis should reveal the \"best\" design.\r\n\r\nFor
    outreach to non-believers, concentrate on the cover design, which is how most
    publishers prioritize.\r\n\r\nBear in mind that different groups read the Bible
    for different reasons.\r\nReligious scholars, historians, bibliophiles, writers
    and lovers of literature may not be Christians.\r\n\r\nKindle offers Serif, Serif
    Condensed, or Sans options: which is the default in different Bibles, and which
    do people prefer?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 18:31:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "If it's for outreach, then clearly the church doing the outreach needs to
    be able to afford as many copies as possible.\r\n\r\nI'm going to assume the publisher's
    agenda is to sell a nice-looking Family Bible as a treasured heirloom in which
    a family can keep a record of the births of its children and so on. Such a Bible
    is likely to have a few pages with illustrated plates in color, with paintings
    of various dramatic events. Notes are likely to be present, of a traditional and
    non-controversial nature: one is more likely to see Ussher's chronology than doubts
    about I John 5:7. The text will probably be that of the King James Version (unless
    the target market is Roman Catholics).\r\n\r\nHaving thus moved the issue out
    of the upper reaches of devotion and theology to a cultural neighborhood where
    paintings of Elvis on black velvet are found, we can then ask: since this is an
    artifact intended to \"look pretty\" (and, despite the proletarian nature of its
    surroundings, its purchasers likely are sincere in their faith), why isn't more
    attention being paid to the typeface?\r\n\r\nThe answer is probably \"well, duh,
    if we had to typeset this giant book again, it would eat up our profit margin,
    and we wouldn't be able to sell it for $29.95 any more\". Given that there are
    public-domain etexts of the KJV out there, and you can do wonderful things with
    laser printers these days, that might change someday.\r\n\r\nThere is a market
    for more upscale printed Bibles of good appearance, but I suspect it's very limited."
  created: '2011-01-06 00:25:10'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Nick Job mentioned ITC Weidemann.\r\nIt was originally designed by Kurt Weidemann
    as a bible text face and was named Biblica.\r\n\r\nRead more here:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/844/itcweidemann-family.html?viewmode=family&id=844&name=itcweidemann&subviewmode=&#\r\n\r\nor
    a bit more detailed in the German version:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/de/844/itcweidemann-schriftfamilie.html?viewmode=family&id=844&name=itcweidemann&subviewmode=&#"
  created: '2011-01-06 00:35:23'
- author:
    name: aarhaus
    picture: 118841
  body: "Of course, Luther\u2019s choice of Schwabacher for his German people\u2019s
    bible was anything but arbitrary.\r\nBut at that time, Antiqua / Roman type was
    known as the Humanists\u2019 type. The \xABcorporate typeface\xBB of the Roman-Catholic
    Church in print was still Textur.\r\nAfter his excommunication, Luther stated
    that nobody could possibly ever get into heaven who has not rejected the pope\u2019s
    doctrine. So logically, the legend of the hellish parts being set in a different
    face than the rest should feature Textur instead of Antiqua.\r\n;)"
  created: '2011-01-06 02:02:41'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "Kurt Weidemann had some interesting but provocative opinions about emotion
    and typography:\r\n\r\n<cite>Weidemann, Kurt, \u2018Biblica \u2014 designing a
    new typeface for the Bible\u2019, Baseline, 6 (1985), 7\u201311</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    poor summary and response: He felt that a typeface for the Bible must be devoid
    of romantic emotion and not impose any emotional quality to the text. A neutral
    face would allow the text to communicate more faithfully and without additional
    influences of typographic emotion.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I disagree. There is no
    such thing as 'neutral' typography. The design and use of type always adds a layer
    of emotion to the text, and even 'neutral' designs affect the perception and response
    of the reader. <long theoretical argument could follow>\r\n\r\nThe Bible is a
    highly emotional book that is intended to elicit a deep spiritual - and intellectual
    - response in its readers. The values and variety of that response are affected
    by its typography and type. That is unavoidable. Type for the Bible can enhance
    or dampen the response. Fraktur vs. Antiqua is an obvious example, but there are
    modern ones, too, such as Brian Sooy's excellent [[http://www.alteredegofonts.com/veritas-font/index.htm|Veritas]],
    used by Tyndale House, which enhances the text's dynamic, exciting properties.
    Unfortunately, Biblica (a.k.a. ITC Weidemann) tends to impart a colder, more distant
    quality (for a number of reasons). While I myself bought and used ITC Weidemann
    years ago for a number of jobs, I would not use it if I were typesetting a Bible.
    \r\n\r\nThis also holds for non-Latin Bible type. John Hudson's [[http://www.sbl-site.org/educational/BiblicalFonts_SBLHebrew.aspx|SBL
    Hebrew]] is amazing in how it mixes warmth with grandeur, and (I hear) makes the
    text seem less stodgy then some more traditional designs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-06 09:55:10'
- author:
    name: aarhaus
    picture: 118841
  body: "Weidemann\u2019s madness about neutrality is a common phenomenon amongst
    German designers of his generation (as a side note, Otl Aicher was born in 1922,
    the same year as Weidemann). Their aspiration for neutrality can only be understood
    in this context.\r\nSo their <cite>objectivism</cite>, being their way of coping
    with their innermost experiences, is highly subjective and emotional.\r\n\r\n<cite>One
    cannot not communicate</cite>, as Paul Watzlawick put it.\r\n\r\nThat said, I
    always found ITC Weidemann had a certain warmth to it."
  created: '2011-01-06 11:03:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Otl Aicher was born in 1922, the same year as Weidemann\"\r\n\r\nMassimo
    Vignelli was born in 1931, not late enough to escape the neutrality syndrome ;-)"
  created: '2011-01-06 14:55:01'
- author:
    name: kvaternion
    picture: 110010
  body: "Hi Ryan - if you are interested in a copy of the Design & Production Bible
    from 2Krogh & Jongbloed, then email me at andreas@2krogh.dk and we'll work something
    out\r\n\r\n- Andreas Krautwald"
  created: '2011-01-07 08:58:50'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "An interesting aspect of Biblical typography is that typically readers are
    not reading in uninterrupted spells for long periods of time. How often does someone
    sit down and read the entire book of Isaiah in one sitting? More typically a person
    will read a verse, or several verses, or a chapter, then have a good think, or
    flip to another related verse.\r\n\r\nWhich is to say, the demands on the type
    are more like a reference book than a novel.\r\n\r\nNote: I've always wanted to
    see a bible printed in Storm's Biblon, does one exist?"
  created: '2011-01-09 08:04:55'
- author:
    name: Alter Littera
    picture: 124030
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nYou might like to check this [[http://typophile.com/node/98161|post]]."
  created: '2012-11-19 13:23:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, a thesis about Biblical typography could include a lot of interesting
    material, since, despite the present situation, in the past printers did devote
    much care and attention to at least some of their editions of the Bible.\r\n\r\nThus,
    for example, Baskerville printed a beautiful edition of the Bible in the typeface
    that bears his name, pictured in some books on the history of typography."
  created: '2012-11-21 02:54:38'
date: '2011-01-04 16:35:51'
node_type: forum
title: Writing a Thesis About Bible Typography

---
