---
author:
  name: J. Tillman
  picture: 118124
body: "I'm not a type designer, just a tech writer. but I want  to rant to the type
  designers. I'm against narrow constrained italics in text fonts. I'm in favor of
  full-size and full weight italics. Our language use has changed and the typefaces
  are not keeping up. Many of my favorite (new) text fonts still have small narrow
  italics. But two things are changing.\r\n\r\nChange 1. Italics are now used for
  emphasis, instead of the (old) underline or  bold type, more than ever.  You can't
  emphasize something with small narrow italics! For tech writing, the Microsoft Manual
  of Style specifies italics for emphasis. Granted, this is because they use bold
  type as a replacement for quotes. But italics is still specified for emphasis. And
  even in novels or magazine articles I am seeing italics as the standard for emphasis
  all the time.\r\n\r\nChange 2. The world is  getting smaller and this is changing
  how we are using foreign language words.  In the past, foreign language words were
  used (sarcasm alert) to show that the writer's parents hadn't wasted their money
  on the MFA program, or to give a novel that certain \"je ne sais quoi.\" In other
  word, the foreign language words were there, but you didn't really have to pay any
  attention to them. No more. Now when writers use foreign language words, it is because
  the words are important. These may be words that express something that English
  doesn't quite have. And you should pay attention. The words are not trivial; you
  will see them again. Jihad. Sendero Luminoso.\r\n\r\nSo I vote for absolutely full-size,
  full weight italics (that take up the same amount of space as the Roman) in all
  text fonts."
comments:
- author:
    name: Kazyole
  body: "Feel better?\r\n\r\nSounds to me like you should be using typefaces that
    have obliques (slanted romans) and not true italics."
  created: '2011-01-04 20:19:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Italics per se are narrower than text faces, that\u2019s a fact of life.
    That said, there are enough typefaces that have \u2018wide-ish\u2019 italics or
    (as memorized by kazoile) obliques that count as italics but have in most cases
    the same widths as the roman. Ergo: there is a subset of typefaces that is to
    your taste.\r\n\r\n(Does this help?)"
  created: '2011-01-04 20:23:47'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I agree. But, other than for historic reasons, one can argue that <em>because</em>
    italic is usually narrower and lighter, it will stand out more in an uniform roman
    text, thus serving its emphasis role better.
  created: '2011-01-04 20:27:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Looking at my output, it seems that the italics are generally 95-100% the
    width of the roman.\r\nThe exception are those which are old style.\r\nSo I think
    what you are really objecting to is the currency of the most popular old style
    \"text\" faces, such as Bembo, Perpetua, Baskerville (transitional, but still
    \"pre-modern\") and Garamond, and recent exercises in the same genre such as Arno,
    Dolly and Scala.\r\n\r\nWith Georgia, in which this site is set, the italic may
    even occupy more space than the roman.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-04 21:37:45'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Historically italics did not have any connection whatsoever with romans \u2014
    they were a whole different species of type. The fact that some cheap typesetter
    combined the two mayor species apparently puts us in this bind now\u2026\r\n\r\n@Nick
    I guess one needs a certain amount of pixels to obtain a good result, thus the
    width of Georgia\u2019s italics (?)."
  created: '2011-01-04 22:57:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@J Tillman.  Are you reading printed text or something on screen as you type?
    and using what application? Some applications don't properly show or even print
    italics, particularly if they are large opentype families that don't nicely fit
    the old Windows 4-unit limit on a family system.\r\n\r\nI guess what I am saying
    is, is this a selection problem caused by the users application or is this a font
    design issue? As Nick mentioned above, genre of typeface can, to some degree,
    influence the italics. Most modern designs don't have wimpy italics.  Identical
    metrics from Roman to italic is not really a good thing.  The glyphs have different
    shapes so the fit must accommodate them. We all know that putting something in
    Italics is not a way of saying \"IGNORE THIS\".  Most type designers spend more
    time designing Italics than they do Roman, even though the amount of usage is
    far less.  All Type designers I know design the italic to work well with the Roman,
    not to meekly and subserviently coexist with it as an impotent step-child.\r\nDo
    you have some specific examples of typefaces with Italics that don't hold up?
    Maybe, if we see what you are looking at, we can be more helpful?"
  created: '2011-01-04 23:21:13'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Maybe not relevant in this context, but not so long ago, Actium has been
    released,\r\na sans serif that has italics with approx. the same colour as the
    Roman:\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/typemafia/actium/\r\n\r\nSome comments
    on it by the designer can be found here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/75996"
  created: '2011-01-04 23:42:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> @Nick I guess one needs a certain amount of pixels to obtain a good
    result, thus the width of Georgia\u2019s italics (?).</em>\r\n\r\nExcept for Unibody!"
  created: '2011-01-04 23:50:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: if you want italics that feel just like the roman, then why use italics at
    all? if there is not enough of a visible difference, then they lose their purpose
    of being. some say that narrow italics are meant to actually slow the reader down,
    i would assume this would be a good thing if you wanted to emphasize something
    or point out a borrowing from a foreign language.
  created: '2011-01-05 00:19:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hmmm. Following up on the line of Paul's comment, I wonder if you are using
    italics as intended, or stretching their use beyond what is appropriate. \r\n\r\nBy
    that I mean, for short phrases for emphasis, or at most a few lines. \"Companion
    italics\" are generally designed to work that way, and if you try to set extended
    text in a companion italic it is going to be sub-par. You do have a lot of other
    options, including text blocks indented on both sides, bullet points, lists, etc.
    If you keep italics to use as intended I think you can find a lot of good options.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 01:30:35'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Tillman, I partially agree with you: there are many fonts with so much narrow
    italics. When the glyph width change, there is a cadence break. Although this
    break is actually desired (otherwise you would not be using italic), it may become
    excessive when roman and italic have very different widths and are mixed in the
    same paragraph.\r\n\r\nPlease note italic naturally tend to be a bit narrower
    due to its calligraphic shapes \u2013not to mention the fact they are initially
    conceived as independent sets of types, as Bert pointed. An italic style with
    exactly the same width of roman could feel actually wider than the roman.\r\n\r\nMany
    contemporary fonts already use a wider italic. Anyway, this is not a choice for
    all fonts. For example, revival from a 16th Century type would become historically
    incorrect (and thus feel strange) without narrow italics.\r\n\r\nSome fonts I
    remember have wider italic (although still narrower than roman): Tisa, Guardian,
    Charter, Skolar, Utopia, Gina, Yukatek and Centro Serif."
  created: '2011-01-05 02:19:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'It seems to me that the problem here isn''t the typefaces but the notion
    of <em>emphasis.</em> See what I did there? I used italics for articulatory emphasis,
    a linguistic phenomenon, <strong>not for graphical emphasis</strong>, a visual
    phenomenon. I''ve seen plenty of style guides that blithely state ''Use italics
    [or bold] for emphasis'', without defining what they mean by emphasis, and certainly
    without recognising that there are different kinds of emphasis. The practice of
    using italics for emphasis originated in articulatory typography, <em>i.e.</em>
    italics were used -- among other things: citations, foreign words, Latin abbreviations
    <em>etc.</em> -- to stress words or phrases, the typographic equivalent of the
    way we would stress those words or phrases in articulated speech. In technical
    writing, it is more often the case that emphasis needs to be used to draw attention
    to some piece of information; this is graphical emphasis, and bold type is more
    appropriate than italics of any style or width because the heavier weight draws
    the eye. If a style guide has boxed itself into a corner by using bold type for
    something other than emphasis, then you need to look to some other eye-drawing
    solution, <em>e.g.</em> semi-bold sans serif, reserving italics for their traditional
    functions, which are already too numerous without also using them for graphical
    emphasis for which they are seldom well adapted.'
  created: '2011-01-05 03:18:54'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Thanks to everyone who has commented so far. My position is unchanged. (I
    told you this was a rant at the beginning!) 1. When I see emphasis using smaller
    type it makes me want to groan. 2. I think foreign language words deserve the
    same weight (typographically and figuratively) as English words. \r\n\r\nI'm seeing
    two very different responses here.  One group is saying that there are lots of
    good fonts where the italics are almost the same size and weight as the Roman,
    and I should just use one of these and be happy.  The other group is saying that
    italics are just smaller than the Roman; it's always been that way. Not to fear.
    I'm gonna argue with everybody.\r\n\r\nTo Nick Shinn and dezcomm: Yes there are
    a lot of good fonts where the italic size and weight is almost the same as the
    Roman. And I think the type design community should just take a deep breath and
    bump those italics up the final 5 or 10 percent so that that they are the same
    size and weight as the Roman. And then we can all be happy. Or maybe just me.\r\n\r\nTo
    paul d hunt and Bert Vanderveen: We may have to agree to disagree here. I recognize
    how it has been. I just think it's time for a change. Italic is different than
    Roman. Even if they are the same size and weight, they're still different.\r\n\r\nTo
    JoergGustafs: As you implied, I am mostly talking about serif fonts. Nonetheless,
    the sans serif Actium is very interesting and is an example of what I want. But
    I'm really talking about serif text fonts.\r\n\r\nTo William Berkson: Yes, I'm
    talking about what you're talking about, namely short phrases of two to four words.
    \r\n\r\nTo Dezcom: Take a look at your post. Imagine that instead of having capital
    letters that say \"IGNORE THIS\", you have letters that are actually much smaller
    than everything else. Does your post seem a little incongruous?\r\nWhat I am looking
    at is printed material. In most cases it is a printed version of the specimen
    PDF.  There are a lot of problem fonts; that's why it's a rant. But the one that
    just makes me shake my head is Greta Text. This seems to me to be a great font
    in the Roman, not only for newspapers but for general purpose. Why is the italics
    so small?\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/fonts/greta_text/\r\n\r\nTo Freiberger:
    Of the fonts you mentioned, I have been looking at three for some time, FF Tisa,
    Skolar, and Yukatek. (Yukatek in the still-in-progress form on the Reading site.)
    Now if those italics were a little wider....\r\n\r\nTo John Hudson: Your articulatory
    emphasis is getting a graphical boost due to the font in use here. As Nick Shin
    pointed out earlier, this has a significant italics. And I stand by my feeling
    that emphasis with small letters (smaller than the Roman)  doesn't cut it.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 03:37:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Imagine that instead of having capital letters that say \"IGNORE THIS\",
    you have letters that are actually much smaller than everything else....\"\r\n\r\nIf
    I want all caps, I can choose all caps. If I want either Italic or bold or smallcaps
    or petite caps or even (heaven forbid) underline, I can choose either.  You are
    arguing about what the typographer has chosen and you dislike, not what is available
    to some other typographer, if they so desire.  The only solution for satisfying
    you is for you to design, set, and output it all yourself. \r\nThe person who
    chose Greta probably liked the contrast between the 2 styles.  Feel free to set
    all your own work and either buy the types that suit you from the millions available
    or fashion your own. In this day and age, it is all possible.  You can also set
    all the text in Roman and use the accent color of your choice for the emphasis
    words. Multicolor printing is much more economical today."
  created: '2011-01-05 03:44:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting analysis, John. I think a problem may be that, as you say, technical
    text calls for a wider palette of options. \r\n\r\nMr. Tillman, I'm not sure what
    you mean by \"small\". Companion italics are often both lighter and narrower than
    the roman, but the combination can achieve the same typographic \"color\" as the
    roman, while having a very noticeably different texture. The actual x-height can
    be the same or bigger. \r\n\r\nWhile I agree that some companion italics are too
    hard to read, I think it is difficult to isolate one variable as \"small\", when
    the different variables interact to get the overall affect. \r\n\r\nIn the case
    of my Williams Caslon Text, I made the italic a lot wider than Caslon's original,
    similar to what Carol Twombly had done for Adobe Caslon. But I also made mine
    more upright than the original, and upright than Adobe Caslon as well. I think
    reducing the slope makes it a little more readable. \r\n\r\nBut there is a delicate
    trade-off here. If you don't differentiate it enough, it's not going to function
    to highlight emphasis. And since almost all differentiation from the roman makes
    a type less readable, if you go to far in differentiation, you start to compromise
    readability too much. \r\n\r\nI agree that getting it right is a challenge, and
    some, like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/joanna/|Joanna]] are wildly off.
    But I don't think you are taking into account that you can go the other way too
    much. The idea of replacing italic with slanted roman, in serif type, has been
    a flop. The most striking \"disproof of concept\" is van Krimpen's Romulus, where
    a wide slanted roman is a flop as a companion to a beautiful roman.        "
  created: '2011-01-05 04:16:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...bump those italics up the final 5 or 10 percent so that that they
    are the same size and weight as the Roman.</em>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't make visual
    sense.\r\nYou want an equivalence in emphasis between roman and italic.\r\nBut
    there is no such discrete graphic quality as \"emphasis\".\r\nThere are only things
    such as area, width, and length.\r\n\r\nWhen the letter l is skewed, it doesn't
    remain the same length, but becomes longer, and increases in area.\r\nEffects
    such as this make it appear bigger.\r\nTo counteract this and achieve an equivalence
    of emphasis, it is necessary to make adjustments, one of which, that seems to
    have proven quite successful, is to make the italic occupy less overall width.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/skew_4783.png]\r\nThis
    illustration compares a rectangle that has been skewed 10\xB0 with one that has
    been rotated 10\xB0 (in red)."
  created: '2011-01-05 06:12:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Related:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/29998\r\n\r\nAnd, since Hrant isn\u2019t
    very present around here lately, I\u2019ll report his opinion too:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/63847#comment-377131"
  created: '2011-01-05 10:23:15'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Tillman - Maybe you''d be best served by Computer Modern (CM Unicode or
    Latin Modern), then. That one is intended for math/tech writing, and you get slanted
    romans as well as italics.'
  created: '2011-01-05 12:07:13'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Thanks again to all those who have commented or may comment in the future.
    \r\n\r\nTo Nick Shinn: Sorry I misspelled your name in my earlier post. Re: the
    two boxes, I have no doubt that I used the wrong technical words, resulting in
    the diagram you showed. From a less technical perspective, how about if I say
    I am looking for an italic that has the same horizontal distance as the Roman.\r\nYou
    mentioned Georgia in an earlier post. When I looked at the font closely, yes,
    this is the italic-Roman relationship, or very close, that I am looking for. (You
    should have hit me on the head harder.) Maybe the italic is a shade too obvious,
    even.\r\n\r\nAnd the whole point of this rant, re-stated now, is that the Georgia
    italic-Roman relationship should be more the rule, and not the exception to the
    rule, for text fonts. Is Georgia considered an unsophisticated font because of
    this? or is it considered inappropriate for general use because of this? (Obviously,
    as a Microsoft standard font,  it's very widely used.) Why isn't everybody here
    already? I am genuinely curious about this.\r\n\r\nTo John Hudson: I will be mulling
    over various options you have suggested. There's a lot there to think about. But
    I do not think that this is only a technical writing discussion. It's about all
    writing.\r\n\r\nTo riccard0: Thanks for those two links. The first is an interesting
    thread. And I liked Hrant's \"Classic, schmassic\" post. Also, now I know how
    to link to a particular post.\r\n\r\nTo T\xE9 Rowan: Thanks for the suggestion;
    I will take a look at that.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-05 19:39:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Without doing an exhaustive comparison of recent text typeface families,
    I'd say that the general trend is probably in the direction that you desire, i.e.
    italics are tending to be wider, closer in proportion (and more directly related
    stylistically) to their roman companions than was historically the case. [Remember
    that italic types did not originate as designed components of families, as they
    are used and typically produced now. Italics originated as distinct typefaces,
    that only gradually assumed supporting typographic r\xF4les. The essentially independent
    design of italics persisted into the late 18th century, and almost any historical
    revival typeface will reflect this.]\r\n\r\nPS. You might like my <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constantia_%28typeface%29\">Constantia</a>:
    the italic is only very slightly narrower than the roman."
  created: '2011-01-05 20:24:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>one can argue that because italic is usually narrower and lighter,
    it will stand out more in an uniform roman text, thus serving its emphasis role
    better.</cite>\r\n\r\n(And others)\r\n\r\nIf you had spend your university years
    in a philosophy department rather than wasting them in design, you'd have learned
    you can argue for anything.\r\n\r\nThere are very few conclusive arguments. So,
    we strive for compelling. After such exchanges, usually no one's mind has changed.\r\n\r\nIs
    this thread a search for an argument, or a typeface?"
  created: '2011-01-05 20:44:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...one can argue that because italic is usually narrower and lighter,
    it will stand out more in an uniform roman text, thus serving its emphasis role
    better.</em>\r\n\r\nBill Bernbach's ad maxim, in the contrarian, absurdist, zen
    style of the 1960s: \"When everybody else shouts, you whisper.\""
  created: '2011-01-05 22:27:15'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "<blockquote>Italics are now used for emphasis...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    that's not their only use. When I teach about italic design I emphasize that the
    <em>purpose</em> of italics is <em>contrast</em>. That can be for <em>emphasis</em>
    or for quotation (see above) or commentary or to set apart a word or phrase as
    different somehow, such as a foreign word. In the first sentence of this paragraph
    I've even used italics for two slightly different types of emphasis. It would
    actually be more effective to do as John did and say:\r\n\r\nWhen I teach about
    italic design I emphasize that the <em>purpose</em> of italics is <strong>contrast</strong>.\r\n\r\nThere
    are a variety of techniques that can be used to provide that contrast, and horizontal
    compression is one of them. So is a lighter weight. Or alternate letterforms.
    Some of these are more effective than others for a particular purpose. The bottom
    line, however, is that the contrast must be clear and strong. <em>What bothers
    me is not which technique is used, but when the contrast is too weak.</em> That's
    my rant."
  created: '2011-01-06 10:58:27'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I am surprised that nobody mentioned Sabon so far. A Garamond interpretation
    where italics and romans have equal width. Or to say it with Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n<cite>One
    of Sabon's most distinctive features is the fact that Roman and Italic have the
    same metrics--a criterion of Linotype \"duplexing\", as I understand it.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/53558"
  created: '2011-01-06 14:17:59'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "I second the recommendation of Sabon. When I'm doing legal work, I use Sabon
    for all my court filings in part because filings require so much italic (not for
    emphasis, but because italic is used in legal citations). I think Sabon is great
    anyway, but the wide italic really does look nice in that context.\r\n\r\nI disagree
    with the recommendation of Computer Modern. Don Knuth has made many impressive
    contributions to digital typography, but that's not one of them. It's ugly and
    awkward. You can't justify it when there are so many better choices.\r\n\r\nElectra
    is a typeface with two italics: one a sloped roman, one a true \"cursive\" italic.
    I don't know off the top of my head whether the sloped roman is available in digital.
    \r\n\r\nIn general J. Tillman raises a good point and some of the responses here
    are underselling the value of what he suggests. When I'm in graphic-design mode,
    there are plenty of times I'd like to have the choice between two italics. \r\n\r\nForget
    about sloped romans for a moment, which I agree are too subtle. I love Galliard
    Roman, but Galliard Italic is too aggressive and stylized for certain projects.
    So I can't use Galliard. Meanwhile, Charter Italic is more moderate. But Charter
    Roman isn't as nice as Galliard Roman. If I had a Charter-like italic for Galliard,
    I'd use Galliard more often. (You could also consider the difference between Georgia
    Italic and Miller Italic, which might be more apt since Georgia & Miller are derived
    from the same DNA).\r\n\r\nReally it's no different than having the choice between
    semibold and bold. Sometimes you want one, sometimes the other. So why don't we
    have more \"semi-italics\"? Clearly because semibolds are often just interpolated,
    which is an afternoon project in Fontlab. Semi-italics would have to be drawn
    from scratch. \r\n "
  created: '2011-01-06 21:01:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@butterick - Why would anyone want an Austin Gipsy with the Chevrolet Tahoe
    on the market?'
  created: '2011-01-07 19:38:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are right, T\xE9, Why would anyone choose to park a Chevy Tahoe on a
    congested city street when a Mini Cooper would be so much easier?  ;-)\r\n\r\nDrive
    a tack with a sledgehammer or a railroad spike with a tack hammer.  We choose
    the tool to suit the job, not to suit some abstract notion of \"like better in
    general.\""
  created: '2011-01-07 20:08:57'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Of course, I'd prefer a Suzuki Fox (the local name for the SJ410) over the
    Mini, but that's due to our roads.
  created: '2011-01-07 20:36:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: You have a REAL Winter!
  created: '2011-01-07 20:46:01'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Oh, plenty of <em>very</em> real winter elsewhere. 'Least no-one's frozen
    to death here yet. Also, the Mini just can't deal with our F-marked roads.
  created: '2011-01-07 21:28:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'In the 60-70s, I drove MGBs.  They were horrible in snow.  Either British
    Leyland or Morris Garage was not used to anything like REAL winter :-) '
  created: '2011-01-07 22:37:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll try to make time to read beyond\r\nthe initial post, but in the meantime:\r\n\r\nThere
    are at least two good reasons (beyond\r\nany historical baggage, which I'm no
    fan of) for\r\nan Italic to be narrower than the Roman:\r\n- Uh, emphasis! :-)
    \ Something doesn't have to\r\nbe bigger to get attention - it can be smaller.\r\nYou
    just need contrast (and it's important to\r\nnote here that slant isn't the only
    thing).\r\n- In a traditional serif system the Italic has\r\nfar fewer serifs
    than the Roman, so it simply\r\ncan't be as wide without looking dorky.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if you're thinking slanted-Roman, you're\r\nreading my mind. To me -when done
    right- it's\r\nthe ideal approach.\r\n\r\nThat said, as many here know I'm actually
    not\r\na fan of Italics in general! And I think there are\r\nsome better avenues
    of emphasis, which have yet\r\nto be properly explored. One of then is weight,\r\njust
    not massive weight like with a Bold; I think\r\nDemi weights usually work great
    for emphasis.\r\nAnother one I quite recently thought of is to in\r\nfact increase
    size, but not based on point size,\r\ninstead based on x-height (so apparent size).\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81755#comment-462531\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-10 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My take on the original post is thagt it's a complaint about the slight narrowing
    of italics in ordinary and contemporary typefaces, such as Times Roman or Century
    Expanded.\r\n\r\nHad the original poster seen Bembo with its more historically-appropriate
    italic, for example, presumably he would have made an off-the-scale comment about
    this.\r\n\r\nHowever, his rationale is largely valid. Italics are used to emphasize
    words in line or indicate foreign words. They aren't used to make inexpensive
    editions of books possible by allowing more characters per line. So italics shouldn't
    be excessively narrow.\r\n\r\nBut I think that problem was solved hundreds of
    years ago, and only italics like the Aldine ones pose a real problem in this connection,
    not those of ordinary recent typefaces."
  created: '2012-02-10 21:03:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> italics shouldn't be excessively narrow.\r\n\r\nSure.\r\nBut I think he
    was complaining about any narrowness at all.\r\n\r\n> I think that problem was
    solved hundreds of years ago\r\n\r\nThe problem I have in mind hasn't been solved
    yet...\r\nHow do you avoid \"skewing the voice\" of the Roman?\r\n\r\nFrom my
    Daidala interview:\r\n\"\r\nIf you believe that a typeface carries emotional associations
    in its forms*, then you have to conclude that the conventional practice of having
    only italics for emphasis is one-dimensional. There can be many kinds of emphasis,
    many nuances a discerning typographer might want to give snippets of text. So
    what would be nice is a system of fonts than can nest into each other and convey
    various emotions, such as stress, sensuality, whatever. What do italics convey?
    Mostly informality and motion \u2013 not necessarily what the text being marked
    is about.\r\n\r\n    * And if you don't, how do you justify making yet more fonts?\r\n\"\r\nhttp://www.daidala.com/25apr2004.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-10 21:11:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>But I think he was complaining about any narrowness at all.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree; I said as much in my post.\r\n\r\nAs to your suggestion in the Daidala
    interview: that is an interesting idea, but I can see why, in general, designers
    have not gone there.\r\n\r\nIt's hard enough to see that Times Roman italic <em>is</em>
    Times Roman italic; so, while it is possible to make new typefaces that convey
    different emotions, making ones that are clearly associated with an existing Roman
    is significantly more difficult.\r\n\r\nAlso, while writers are used to using
    the stereotyped forms of italic and boldface for emphasis, anything else is likely
    to be stigmatized as gimmicky.\r\n\r\nThere is <em>some</em> existing precedent
    for this; besides italics, bold, and small capitals (which I've argued should
    be thought of as a third case) there is, of course, demibold and extra bold; some
    typefaces have script versions and others have monospaced versions.\r\n\r\nBut
    what first came to mind when I saw your suggestion, and which made me think right
    away that a \"gimmicky\" stigma would be likely, was that there would be a weight
    that makes the given face look somewhat like Ondine. And another possibility would
    be a weight replete with Valentine's Day cliches."
  created: '2012-02-13 17:54:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It's hard enough to see that Times Roman italic is Times Roman italic\r\n\r\nReally?
    And if so, use a darker weight.\r\nI'm a big fan of using Demi for emphasis...
    with no slant!\r\n\r\n> anything else is likely to be stigmatized as gimmicky.\r\n\r\n1)
    Conservatism will stigmatize anything that nudges its Lazy Boy.\r\n2) As with
    anything else in text typography, it's all about being subtle,\r\nunder-the-radar.
    The reader should have no idea what's going on, much\r\nless stigmatize it.\r\n\r\nI
    think most designers haven't gone there because\r\nlike the rest of the population
    they're 95% followers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 18:22:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I'm a big fan of using Demi for emphasis</em>\r\n\r\nSee my comment
    earlier on the distinction between linguistic emphasis and visual emphasis. One
    expresses an articulatory emphasis of a word or phrase, the other expresses a
    hierarchy of importance. One should be encountered in the text as one reads, the
    other should draw attention to itself and stand out from the text.\r\n\r\n<strong>Important</strong>
    I can't stress <em>enough</em> how critical is this distinction."
  created: '2012-02-13 18:58:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: By the way, the newly released <a href="http://www.brill.nl/news/brill-typeface">Brill
    types</a> have a bountifully wide italic, with an only slightly narrower set width
    than the roman. It also exhibits a number of other unusual features in how it
    relates to its roman companion. The types are licensed at no cost for non-commercial
    use.
  created: '2012-02-13 19:02:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me that distinction goes to the level of deliberative\r\nversus immersive
    reading; meaning that if it stands out\r\nof the text, it can't do with an \"Italic\"
    is supposed to.\r\nWhich is not to say there can't be different flavors of\r\nnon-disruptive
    emphasis.\r\n\r\nBrill: Sounds interesting - I'll definitely be taking a look.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-13 19:24:18'
date: '2011-01-04 19:52:12'
node_type: forum
title: 'Rant: No more narrow text italics'

---
