---
author:
  name: "\u2606"
body: "Please help me to understand how UPM is related to ascenders and descenders.
  For example, look at Times New Roman (TTF) metrics, UPM = 2048 (see image below).\r\n\r\nI
  used to believe that UPM = Ascender - Descender, but now I find that I was wrong.
  But what metrics expression must be equal to UPM? What plus what (or minus what)
  must give exactly 2048 in this example? I don\u2019t see appropriate values at all.
  Help me to clarify, please.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/font_metrics_4626.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Read Karsten Lucke\u2019s guide to vertical metrics: http://kltf.de/downloads/FontMetrics-kltf.pdf\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Adam Twardoch posted a python script that does a good job calculating vetical
    metrics in the thread: http://www.typophile.com/node/71230"
  created: '2011-01-11 01:36:32'
- author:
    name: "\u2606"
  body: "Thank you for quick default answer, but I have read that guide before posting
    my question.\r\n\r\nThe guide says on page 1 that Ascender + Descender equals
    to UPM. But I don\u2019t see that equality in real fonts, and therefore I posted
    my question.\r\n\r\nIn Times New Roman (see my screenshot) Typo Ascender + Typo
    Descender = 1420 + 442 = 1862, Ascender + Descender = 1825 + 443 = 2268, Win Ascent
    + Win Descent is the same. None of these gives UPM 2048.\r\n\r\nMaybe Lucke\u2019s
    guide is wrong?\r\n\r\nTwardoch\u2019s Python script calculates line spacing,
    but doesn\u2019t help with my question too."
  created: '2011-01-11 09:50:43'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<strong>Ascender</strong> and <strong>Descender</strong> are values defined
    by the font designer. In principle, their sum must be equal to UPM. Anyway, this
    is not always true because the designer can let a gap between these limits and
    the UPM. So, the sum of asc/desc would be minor than UPM.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capture_01112011_114745_4190.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Sample:
    Arial's UPM is 2048, but asc/desc sum is 1922</em>.\r\n\r\nThis gap is useful
    to avoid line conflicts when using stacked double diacritics (like these in Vietnamese
    or for Indic transliterations). Another possibility is to let room for increasing
    overshoots in bolder weights. As long as I did watch, this is common in TT fonts
    and rare in T1 ones.\r\n\r\nIf you have diferences between asc/desc, actual glyph
    extremes and UPM, the font editor will find other values when it calculates <strong>TypoAscender</strong>
    and <strong>TypoDescender</strong> fields. Anyway, this will not cause problems
    and is valid only for TT fonts.\r\n\r\n<strong>WinAscent</strong> and <strong>WinDescent</strong>
    are equal to Ascender and Descender values in this TT panel. These values are
    get by the program itself and results from the actual vertical extremes of the
    font.\r\n\r\nAlthough WinAsc/WinDesc would be the same defined by designer as
    ascender and descender, many glyphs demand higher extremes. See, for example,
    some ornaments, mathematical symbols or diacritical combinations \u2013 not to
    mention most of script fonts. If you make asc/desc limits match these taller glyphs,
    the remaining glyphs would become very small or cause excessive line gap. So,
    at least in almost all fonts I saw, the nominal limits are ignored when designing
    especial kinds of glyphs.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capture_01112011_113002_3468.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Sample:
    in Minion, stacked diacritics go far away from ascender</em>.\r\n\r\n<em>Sidenote:</em>
    your name is not shown for me (and surely for others) because U+2606 is a glyph
    not present in many fonts."
  created: '2011-01-11 13:52:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Mr Matrosov, there are two things to consider: First, you need to inspect
    a number of fonts rather than just one. Second, if you look at more than just
    the first page of the document you will see that it presents ideal-world relations
    which <em>do not need</em> to be like that. In fact page 2 explicitly says that
    \"<em>none</em> of the following conditions is required by any specifications\"
    [last \"s\" needs to go] and mentions, as the third of these conditions, Ascender+Descender=UPM.\r\n\r\nYou
    need to keep in mind the purpose of this document, John Hudson's earlier description,
    Read Roberts' research, and Adam Twardoch's script. Different applications determine
    the (default/automatic) line-to-line distance in different ways, choosing (sets
    of) values almost arbitrarily \u2013 thanks to TTF/OTF fonts offering a bunch
    of alternatives. So the question we are trying to address is, how to keep line-to-line
    distance consistent across applications? [I will try to improve the wording of
    the first paragraph.]\r\n\r\n(Perhaps the OT/OFF specification should explicitly
    deprecate certain table data in the long run ...)"
  created: '2011-01-11 14:51:46'
- author:
    name: "\u2606"
  body: "Thank you Mr. Freiberger for detailed and thorough explanation. Now I seem
    to understand nearly all that I was concerned.\r\nStill a little issue is not
    clear to me, and I will be grateful if you help me to understand.\r\nFor example,
    we type text in simple Notepad, and set font to Times, size 72px (for simplicity).
    As far as I understand, Notepad allocates a rectangular place for each letter,
    and this place has height exactly 72 pixels. The letter of course must not fit
    exactly into this rectangle, it is simply a box to which the glyph will be bound.\r\nAnd
    there I don\u2019t get one thing. Where in this box the baseline will be positioned?
    How many pixels exactly from top (or bottom) of the box? How will Notepad (or
    other software) calculate it? How can I calculate it from given font metrics?\r\nI
    thought before that asc + desc = UPM strictly, and the position of baseline can
    be calculated proportionally. But it turns out far more complicated, and I need
    help to get it.\r\nP.S. Sorry for my imperfect English.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-11 17:20:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'In your example, the percentage of the 72px square identified as Ascender
    Height will appear above the baseline, and the percentage identified as Descender
    Height will appear below it. Therefore, if the UPM is 1,000, the Ascender Height
    is 750 and the Descender Height is 250, there will be 54 px above the baseline
    and 18 px below. You don''t have to calculate: that''s what the dimensions are
    for.'
  created: '2011-01-11 18:06:47'
- author:
    name: "\u2606"
  body: "\u2192 oldnick\r\n\r\nYour calculations assume that asc + desc = UPM. But
    my question is about an example where their sum ISN\u2019T equal to UPM. Here
    UPM is 2048, but asc + desc = 1420 + 442 = 1862 \u2014 so where is baseline?"
  created: '2011-01-11 19:19:49'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Good question. I don't know.\r\n\r\nInitially, I thought exactly what OldNick
    told. But some tests show me other results.\r\n\r\nI took DejaVu Serif and set
    its x-height to 0. No change. Caps height to 0. No change. Back to original values
    I changed ascender from 1556 to 556. And the result in FontLab preview was this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capture_01112011_163734_3743.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>DejaVu
    Serif with ascender decreased by 1000upm.</em>\r\n\r\nSo, when you reduce the
    ascender (and did no change other metric values), line height seems to be affected.\r\n\r\nStill
    with the ascender modified by \u20131000, I set the descender from the original
    \u2013492 to \u20131492. And the preview in FontLab was back to normal, indicating
    the program consider the sum from ascender and descender to define the line height.\r\n\r\nBack
    to original values, I decreased the ascender again by 1000upm. Generated the font
    as OT CFF and OT TTF without recalculating the TT-specific values (WinAscent,
    etc.). Tested the font in InDesign, Word and NotePad. Interestingly, the font
    leading and baseline were normal.\r\n\r\nSo, the ascender value is <strong>not</strong>
    considered by these applications to define leading and baseline. Note in this
    case the sum asc+desc was 1000upm minor than the original one and the proportion
    asc/desc was completely broken. Anyway, the lines were still OK.\r\n\r\nIt's also
    possible that FL someway fixed this value in export process, but I don't bet on
    this. Put simply, these tests did not found an answer. They just put aside my
    initial presumption.\r\n\r\nBut I noticed that, even with metrics greatly modified,
    the glyphs did remain at the same place. This is a glyph window capture from FontLab
    after I decreased <em>all</em> values by 1000upm:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/capture_01112011_170437_6086.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Even
    with all metrics greatly modified, the glyph outline keeps it place.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, ascender, caps height, x-height and descender were severely modified
    towards bottom. But the baseline, the outline and the marks were not affected
    in any way.\r\n\r\nThis <em>may</em> be the answer: what determine baseline position
    is simply the baseline (y=0 line) used during font creation. To change other values
    will not affect the baseline and the glyph position is defined considering its
    relationship with this reference.\r\n\r\nNow, it's time to get help from people
    who know much more than me on this matter. I'm also curious to see the answer."
  created: '2011-01-11 19:40:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Your calculations assume that asc + desc = UPM. But my question is about
    an example where their sum ISN\u2019T equal to UPM. Here UPM is 2048, but asc
    + desc = 1420 + 442 = 1862 \u2014 so where is baseline?</em>\r\n\r\nThe baseline
    remains the same: it's the zero, zero reference point from which the characters
    are drawn, as noted above. 1420 is approximately 76.5% of 1,862 and 442 is approximately
    23.5% of 1,862; however, the characters are likely to occupy only 91% of the available
    vertical space."
  created: '2011-01-11 20:01:15'
- author:
    name: "\u2606"
  body: "\u2192 oldnick\r\n\r\nSeems that I failed again to properly explain my question.\r\n\r\nYou
    speak about \xAD\u201Cthe available vertical space\u201D. Let\u2019s assume here\u2019s
    this space according to my example. Since the program allocates space equal to
    font size, its height is exactly 2048 units:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/01_6439.png]\r\n\r\nNow,
    there is a real letter from the font, having height 1862 units. The baseline is
    marked with dashed line:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/02_6272.png]\r\n\r\nAnd
    then, what exactly happens when a program (i.e. Notepad) displays this letter
    in that box? How are the letter and the box positioned relative to each other?
    Are they top-aligned (first figure below), bottom-aligned (second figure), or
    something else?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/03_4800.png]\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t understand this."
  created: '2011-01-11 21:31:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Since the program allocates space equal to font size\r\n\r\nWhich program
    would that be?\r\n\r\nMy understanding is that on Windows, most applications allocate
    vertical space and do line positioning based on os2.usWinAscender + os2.usWinDescender,
    scaled to the current point size. Similarly on the Mac, only with hhea.Ascent
    and hhea.Descent (and hhea.LineGap for subsequent lines).\r\n\r\nMost Adobe apps
    do use the em, plus the sTypoAscender and sTypoDescender for the same purpose.
    But they are capable of letting text overhang the frame on any side. The more
    sophisticated ones such as InDesign even let you decide on what basis to set the
    first baseline in the frame.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-11 22:10:47'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mr Matrosov, maybe I now got what your question is. It is not so much about
    \"how UPM is related to ascenders and descenders\" as stated in your initial post
    but rather about \"how UPM relates to any kind of metrics\".\r\n\r\nFirst a remark
    about the <em>EM</em> in <em>UPM</em>. In digital type, the <em>EM</em> does not
    refer to a \"real\" box. You better consider the <em>EM</em> as a yardstick \u2013
    an abstract letter-height yardstick which establishes a link between micro and
    macro level, between font-internal unit system and font-external unit system:
    The font-internal unit system is defined via <em>UPM</em>, i.e. as the number
    of units per <em>EM</em>. It is the letter-design grid or resolution. The font-external
    unit system may be typographic point, millimeter, pixel, etc. And this abstract
    <em>EM</em> serves to project the font-internal unit system onto the font-external
    unit system.\r\nAn example. You have a font with 2048 units per <em>EM</em>, internally,
    which is to be projected on 12 pt type size, externally. So <em>1 pt = 2048 M-units</em>
    or <em>1 M-unit = 1/2048 pt</em>. Now it does not matter whether <em>OS/2.sTypoAscender
    + OS/2.sTypoDescender = head.unitsPerEm</em> or not. To calculate baseline positions,
    you need to know which sets of metrics an application uses to determine the distance
    a) from top of the text frame to the first baseline and b) from baseline to baseline.
    If an application uses <em>OS/2.usWinAscent</em> [= 1825 in your screenshot] for
    a) then the first baseline has a distance of\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>(1825
    M-units * 12 pt) / 2048 M-units = 10,69 pt</em>\r\nfrom the top of the text frame.
    And if an application uses <em>OS/2.usWinAscent + OS/2.usWinDescent</em> [= 1825
    and 443 in your screenshot] for b) then the line-to-line distance is\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<em>((1825
    + 443) M-units * 12 pt) / 2048 M-units = 13.29 pt</em>\r\nThinking of <em>UPM</em>
    as a box is a bit misleading. (But it makes sense to think of a box when <em>designing</em>
    type!)\r\n\r\nHope there are no grave errors in this description."
  created: '2011-01-12 13:12:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I've been working on a blog post on this topic on and off since before Christmas.
    That's a brilliantly clear description, which I will be happy to quote part of.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I think you have an error in the example \"So 1 pt = 2048 M-units or 1 M-unit
    = 1/2048 pt.\" I believe that given that you are scaling the font to 12 pts the
    example should be \"So 12 pt = 2048 M-units or 1 M-unit = 12/2048 pt.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-12 21:11:45'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "How embarrassing, I knew something like this would sneak in ...\r\n\r\nA
    blog post sounds great, perfect for a (to be reanimated) link collection!"
  created: '2011-01-12 21:29:45'
- author:
    name: "\u2606"
  body: Mr. Phinney and k.l., thank you for good explanation. It was very useful to
    me.
  created: '2011-01-12 22:07:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I usually explain it as follows: \r\n\r\n<em>The primary meaning of the UPM
    size is that it determines the size of glyphs at a given point size. When a font
    has 1000 UPM, and the capital H is 700 units tall, then when set at 10 pt, the
    capital H will be exactly 7 pt tall. When the font has 500 UPM and the capital
    H is 700 units tall, then when set at 10 pt, the capital H will be exactly 14
    pt tall.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>In other words, if you want your glyphs to appear slightly
    larger, the designer can either scale the actual glyph outlines up, or he can
    reduce the UPM size declared in the font. The second solution is often much simpler,
    because you only need to change one value in the font.</em>\r\n\r\nIn more detail:
    \r\n\r\nThe three kinds of linespacing values (<code>hhea, OS/2.Typo</code> and
    <code>OS/2.Win</code>) determine the distance between two consecutive baselines.
    The tricky value is <code>hhea.LineGap</code>, because it's used by some Mac apps,
    while it is ignored by a few. \r\n\r\nThe reason why it's recommended that <code>UPM
    = OS/2.TypoAscender + OS/2.TypoDescender</code>, because some applications (I
    believe InDesign) determine the offset of the *first* baseline in a text frame
    as <code>UPM \u2013 OS/2.TypoDescender</code>. So in order for this to be equal
    to <code>OS/2.TypoAscender</code>, the above rule needs to be followed. \r\n\r\nBut
    a much more important recommendation is: \r\n\r\n<code>OS/2.TypoAscender + OS/2.TypoDescender
    + OS/2.TypoLineGap = OS/2.WinAscent + OS/2.WinDescent = hhea.Ascender + hhea.Descender
    + hhea.LineGap</code>\r\n\r\nTheoretically, it would be possible to assume that
    this means that: \r\n<code>OS/2.TypoAscender = hhea.Ascender\r\nOS/2.TypoDescender
    = hhea.Descender\r\nOS/2.TypoLineGap = hhea.LineGap</code>\r\n\r\nHowever, because
    some applications ignore <code>hhea.LineGap</code>, then perhaps it's a better
    rule to do: \r\n<code>OS/2.WinAscent = hhea.Ascender\r\nOS/2.WinDescent = hhea.Descender\r\nhhea.LineGap
    = 0</code>\r\n\r\nSince OS/2.Win values don't have a \"LineGap\" parameter, and
    if you do follow the rule <code>UPM = OS/2.TypoAscender + OS/2.TypoDescender</code>,
    then it means that <code>OS/2.TypoLineGap</code> is the UPM percentage that you
    want the line gap to be. If your intention is for the default linespacing to be
    <strong>120%</strong> of the UPM, then <code>OS/2.TypoLineGap</code> should be
    20% of the UPM. So if the UPM is 1000, 20% of the UPM, and logically, <code>OS/2.TypoLineGap</code>
    would be 200. If you want the default linespacing to be 125% of the UPM, then
    <code>OS/2.TypoLineGap</code> would be 250 for a 1000 UPM font. \r\n\r\nThe <code>OS/2.TypoLineGap</code>
    value needs then to be split in two and those partial values need to be added
    to <code>OS/2.WinAscent</code> and <code>OS/2.WinDescent</code>. If the font tends
    to have more \"ink\" above the <code>OS/2.TypoAscender</code>, then a larger part
    of the line gap value should be added to <code>OS/2.WinAscent</code>. If the font
    tends to have more \"ink\" below the <code>OS/2.TypoDescender</code>, then a larger
    part of the line gap value should be added to <code>OS/2.WinDescent</code>. \r\n\r\n<strong>Fontographer
    5</strong> includes an algorithm that works just as described (and always assume
    that the default linespacing should be 120% of the UPM). I've written a Python
    script for FontLab Studio that makes the same calculation: \r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontlab.net/downloads/NewLinespacing.zip\"><strong>http://www.fontlab.net/downloads/NewLinespacing.zip</strong></a>\r\n\r\nI
    hope that in the next version of Fontographer, we'll add a customization field
    that will allow the user to choose the default percentage (for users who want
    it to be different than 120%). \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-15 20:57:11'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nIf Adam or anybody else could comment\u2026 I'm wondering\u2026\r\n\r\nBasically
    from Adam's post and Karten Luecke's PDF, I take it this is now the real* recommended
    way to go:\r\n\r\n\"However, because some applications ignore hhea.LineGap, then
    perhaps it's a better rule to do:\r\nOS/2.WinAscent = hhea.Ascender\r\nOS/2.WinDescent
    = hhea.Descender\r\nhhea.LineGap = 0\"\r\n\r\nIs this still valid or has it changed
    in the last 2 years?\r\nI have opened a few fonts created in the last 2-3 years
    and it seems everybody is doing it differently.\r\nOn a few occasions I have seen
    reputable foundries not respecting this recommendation and putting larger values
    in the OS2/Win tables than in the hhea, probably with the desire to avoid letters
    such as Aringacute to be cut out. Does it lead to bigger linespacing in some applications,
    what is the drawback to this?\r\n\r\nFontlab \"calculate values automatically\"
    has lead us to some quite terrible cutouts in windows applications (winascent
    and windescent = 0). So apparently nothing got calculated or what? \r\n\r\nAn
    update to the update of the update of the update which dates back to 2003 would
    be nice."
  created: '2013-01-26 01:01:29'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Yes, setting those pairs of values differently will give you different line
    spacing in some Windows apps vs. Mac apps. Unfortunately these values in Windows
    are often also used as a clipping zone, so they do need to be set correctly for
    the largest glyphs in the font.\r\n\r\nJason C"
  created: '2013-01-26 05:15:59'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Thanks for the answer Jason. But I'm still a bit confused.\r\n\r\nIf they
    need to be set for the largest glyphs, why are Karsten Luecke, John Husdon and
    Adam Twardoch recommending to follow the \"UPM + linespacing\" system. In many
    fonts, this system doesn't allow enough space for Aringacute and Scommaaccent
    , which together don't fit in 1,2/1,2 x UPM.\r\nOr is the recommendation then
    to also make sure these two letters fit in that box?\r\n\r\nAlso one thing that
    is very unclear and abstract to me: how should these metrics be applied across
    a family.\r\nI think Karsten Luecke recommends to take the biggest values in the
    family, and to apply them to all the fonts in the family. That would imply that
    fonts with variable ascenders/descenders values would have their descenders or
    ascenders \"floating\" in certain weights, right?\r\n\r\nFrom what I have seen,
    not many people follow this. More people respect the UPM box, but apply different
    ascenders and descenders values (basically the box moving up or down across the
    family). That caused problems?"
  created: '2013-01-26 12:29:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If they need to be set for the largest glyphs, why are Karsten Luecke,
    John Husdon and Adam Twardoch recommending to follow the \"UPM + linespacing\"
    system.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you are misinterpreting the recommendation, at least
    as I express it. You are presuming that linespacing is 1.2 x UPM, whereas the
    recommendation is to start with the non-clipping bounding box and then use that
    to calculate the linespacing (excepting in the case of No.6, below).\r\n\r\n1.
    Start with the OS/2  WinAscent/WinDescent values, which must be sufficient to
    prevent clipping of the tallest and deepest glyphs in the font family*. This is
    the primary purpose of these values.\r\n\r\n2. Because most Windows apps (erroneously)
    also use these values to calculate default linespacing, it follows that all other
    vertical metrics (treated as positive integers) should sum to the same total as
    WinAscent + WinDescent, presuming you want compatible linespacing regardless of
    which metrics set is used by software. Ergo:\r\n\r\n3. Set the OS/2 TypoAscender
    and TypoDescender values to proportionally reflect the actual ascender and descender
    height of the typeface, but in such a way that they sum to the UPM. This is the
    basic check that ensures the scaling factor of the typeface relates to the design
    in some meaningful way. So, for example, if your font is on a UPM of 1000 and
    your actual ascender =740 and your actual descender =240, you would apportion
    20 extra units to the TypoAscender and TypoDescender to bring the sum of the two
    up to 1000.\r\n\r\n4. The difference between the sum of (TypoAscender + TypoDescender)
    and the sum of (WinAscent + WinDescent) gives you your TypoLineGap value.\r\n\r\n5.
    There are two possible ways to set the Mac hhea table vertical metrics. One way
    is to set the Ascender and Descender values to be equivalent to the OS/2 WinAscent
    and WinDescent values, and then set the hhea LineGap value to 0 (zero). The other
    way is to set the three hhea values to be identical to the OS/2 Typo- values.
    Adobe did some testing on this a few years ago, and found that there was some
    discrepancy in Mac applications regarding how to calculate the distance from the
    top of a text frame for the first baseline. Their recommendation for best results
    in most places, in terms of compatibility with Windows layout, was to use the
    second method, i.e. match the hhea metrics to the OS/2 Typo- metrics.\r\n\r\n6.
    All of this advice presumes that you are a) looking for maximum compatibility
    and b) that you are content for the OS/2 WinAscent and WinDescent to always determine
    the default linespacing. In some fonts, though, the inclusion of very tall glyphs
    that are only used in specific situations can result in too-wide linespacing if
    the WinAscent and WinDescent no-clipping zone also determines linespacing. In
    this case, some software will use the Typo- metrics instead <em>if</em> the OS/2
    fsSelection bit 7 is switched on. This mechanism enables you to decouple the linespacing
    from the WinAscent/WinDescent values, in which case the hhea metrics should definitely
    correspond to the Typo- metrics. Obviously this mechanisn, because not supported
    everywhere, means that metrics can no longer ensure compatibility; it's a trade-off.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    Yes, the OS/2 and hhea table vertical metrics should be identical across all the
    fonts in a family. Hence, it makes sense that the WinAscent/WinDescent values
    are based on the height and depth of the tallest and deepest glyphs overall, which
    are typically found in the heaviest fonts."
  created: '2013-01-26 18:31:10'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Sorry, my comment was only about one small part of this large debate. Basically...
    what John Hudson said. \r\n\r\njason C"
  created: '2013-01-27 04:03:54'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Hello John, Thank you for the thorough answer!\r\nPractical case:\r\n\r\nWhat
    would you do with a typeface where the highest point it 1185 and lowest -220\r\nIf
    these are the values I enter in WinAscent and WinDescent, it means TypoLineGap
    would be 405.\r\nThat's a big gap\u2026\r\n\r\nParagraph 6> so in this case, if
    I activate OS/2 fsSelection bit 7 (how does that work? With ttx?) then some applications
    would again have a default linespacing based on the key dimensions metrics, while
    other would have a linespacing of 140% ?"
  created: '2013-01-27 13:53:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>That's a big gap\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nYes. The convention employed in many
    fonts of default linespacing being 120% of the em was only ever practical, in
    terms of OS/2 WinAscent/WinDescent values, for fairly basic Latin character sets.
    As soon as one gets into other scripts, or even stacked Latin diacritic marks
    as found in Vietnamese and that troublesome /Aringacute/ -- troublesome not least
    because it is extremely rare in actual use, so should one worry about including
    it or not clipping it? --, this convention won't work. I've made the case to Microsoft
    several times that fonts should include script- and language-specific vertical
    metrics data so, for instance, the default linespacing for English text and Vietnamese
    text could be different and appropriate. In the meantime, though, we have to work
    with the existing set of metrics and how they are interpreted by existing software,
    which means, for most Windows programs, accepting that the non-clipping zone and
    linespacing will be the same, derived from the WinAscent/WinDescent values.\r\n\r\nI've
    not tried setting fsSelection bit 7 with TTX, but I presume it is possible. I
    use DTL OTMaster, which is a bit awkward in that it expresses the value as a hexadecimal
    rather than a binary, so I have to enter the binary value in a scientific calculator,
    convert to hex, and then enter that value in OTMaster. I presume the next generation
    of font editors will provide toggle options for the newly defined fsSelection
    bits. Note that in addition to setting the bit, you also need to set the OS/2
    table version to 4, and this implies that you should probably set bits 8 and 9
    appropriately.\r\n\r\n<em>...then some applications would again have a default
    linespacing based on the key dimensions metrics, while other would have a linespacing
    of 140% ?</em>\r\n\r\nNo software, to my knowledge, calculates default linespacing
    based on 'key dimensions metrics' -- by which I presume you mean the set of ascender,
    cap height, x-height and descender metrics so labelled by FontLab -- all use OS/2
    metrics (Windows) or hhea metrics (Mac). If you set fsSelection bit 7, which is
    really only meaningful is your OS/2 Typo- metrics and Win- metrics do not sum
    to the same total height, then you will get inconsistent metrics between different
    applications. Also note that this isn't as predictable as it should be, because
    MS Word applies its own algorithm to spacing text set in fonts with fsSelection
    bit 7 enabled."
  created: '2013-01-27 17:54:59'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "Hello John,\r\n\r\nThanks a lot for taking the time, things are clearer now.
    I really appreciated it!\r\n\r\nFinally I decided to dismiss (clip) the Aringacute
    which allows me to follow your recommendation, with a linegap of 125%. "
  created: '2013-01-29 20:32:56'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Could someone help me out? I'm trying to define the metrics for this typeface
    I'm about to transport to FontLab and can't make sense of it. Here are my key
    values:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Metrics_4368.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf it
    helps at all, my cap height is 690 and my x-height is 482. When I calculate the
    value for the LineGap, I get to 32 rather than the roughly 200 I'm supposed to
    get. Am I supposed to decrease the Typo-values for OS/2?\r\n\r\nBy the way, in
    a different thread you guys were talking about the meaning of the word 'typo'
    and how you've never seen it being used for anything other than to mean a typographical
    error. I just realized the alternate meaning is used in FontLab! TypoAscender,
    TypoDescender and TypoLineGap."
  created: '2014-12-23 14:44:33'
date: '2011-01-11 00:42:11'
node_type: forum
title: 'UPM and vertical font metrics: please help to clarify'

---
