---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "A Typophile member asked me by email the question, whether he is permitted
  to digitize an old font no longer sold by the original foundry and then sell this
  digitized font using the old font name.\r\n\r\nSince this is a question which will
  interest other Typophile members too, I summarize here what I wrote to the member,
  who asked me the question. While the trademark laws vary from country to country,
  there are usually two principles applied in most countries and summarized here at
  the Wikipedia website http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trademark as follows:\r\n\r\n\"Proprietary
  rights in relation to a trademark may be established <strong>through actual use</strong>
  in the marketplace, or <strong>through registration</strong> of the mark with the
  trademarks office of a particular jurisdiction.\"\r\n\r\nThe Typophile member asked
  me, whether he is permitted to digitize the old font \"Erbar Medieval\" and sell
  it by its original font name \"Erbar Medieval\".\r\n\r\nHere is a sample of one
  of the bold cuts of this old font\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-II.jpg\r\n\r\ndrawn
  from a book by Georg Kandler\r\n\r\n\"Erinnerungen an den Bleisatz\", Volume 1,
  1995, page 26\r\n(\"Reminiscences of the foundry type era\")\r\n\r\nErbar Mediaeval
  is a typeface which was designed by the German Jakob Erbar, who died in 1935 in
  Cologne in Germany.\r\n\r\nEven if fonts were copyrightable in Germany (which they
  are not), the \"70-years-post-mortem\" copyright protection period would have expired
  a couple of years ago (1935 + 70 = 2005).\r\n\r\nHowever, fonts may be registered
  as designs in Germany for a period of 25 years starting with the first publication
  of the font. This period expired too.\r\n\r\nSince Erbar died in 1935, all his copyrightable
  works (e.g. his books etc.), if any, and all his fonts registered as designs, if
  any, have already fallen into public domain.\r\n\r\nTherefore today nobody can can
  claim any copyright to the works and to the fonts made by Jakob Erbar, because Erbar's
  death was more than 70 years ago.\r\n\r\nDo not make the legal mistake of claiming
  copyright to digitizations of the public domain Erbar fonts, because nobody can
  claim copyright to something that is in public domain. Neither the heirs of Erbar
  nor anyone else can do that. Therefore, a digitization of Erbar Mediaeval will be
  public domain too, just like the original font made by Erbar is public domain.\r\n\r\nMany
  people at the Typophile website erroneously think that they can become the copyright
  owner of a public domain font by digitizing this public domain font. This is legal
  nonsense.\r\n\r\nAs regards the name of a font, it may be registered forever, provided
  you pay the trademark registration fees forever. I did NOT research in depth whether
  anyone registered the name \"Erbar Mediaeval\" for a font. Such a research is cumbersome
  and time-consuming, because the name of a product may be registered in any country
  of the world.\r\n\r\nAs regards the website www.bauertypes.com, a certain \"c. Dr.
  Ferran, n\xBA 6-8 Entlo 2\xBA A 08034 Barcelona Tel. +34 931127993 - Fax +34 932524806\"
  seems to be responsible for this website. At the subsite\r\n\r\nwww.bauertypes.com/categorias/index/32/quienes-somos\r\n\r\nwe
  read:\r\n\r\n\"Trademarks: BauerTypes, como principal fabricante de tipograf\xEDa
  en la era de plomo posee la patente o TradeMark de un sinf\xEDn de tipograf\xEDas
  dentro del marco de los grandes cl\xE1sicos. Entre las m\xE1s destacadas se encuentran:
  ver listado\"\r\n\r\nHowever, the trademark list\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bauertypes.com/arxiu/Pdfs/c/catalogo_nd.pdf\r\n\r\ndoes
  not even mention fonts by Erbar as trademarks\r\n\r\nThe Neufville website www.neufville
  says here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.neufville.com/nd/uk/colof_uk.htm\r\n\r\n\"... Erbar
  Mediaeval ... are trademarks of Bauer Types SA\"\r\n\r\n\"Neufville Digital makes
  no warranties as to the completeness or accuracy of this information.\"\r\n\r\nThe
  information that \"Erbar Mediaeval\" is a trademark of Bauer Types SA is inaccurate,
  because neither of the two requirements for a trademark protection are met:\r\n\r\nFirstly,
  \"Erbar Mediaeval\" is not protected by registration\r\nSecondly, \"Erbar Mediaeval\"
  is not protected by actual use\r\n\r\n\"Proprietary rights in relation to a trademark
  may be established <strong>through actual use</strong> in the marketplace, or <strong>through
  registration</strong> of the mark.\"\r\n\r\nSince neither Bauer nor Neufville sell
  a font called \"Erbar Mediaeval\", this font name is no trademark by actual use.
  To mention a name of an old font in a list does not make you the owner of a trademark.
  You have to sell the font to achieve protection by actual use.\r\n\r\nThis means
  that the Typophile member is permitted to digitize the public domain font Erbar
  Mediaeval and to sell this font by its original font name Erbar Mediaeval.\r\n\r\nHowever
  the Typophile member cannot claim copyright to his digitization of the public domain
  font. But he may sell the font against the payment of a font price (but not against
  the payment a copyright licence fee).\r\n\r\nRemember: If you digitize an old public
  domain book, you do not become the copyright owner of this public domain book. The
  same holds true for old public domain fonts, irrespective of whether fonts are copyrightable
  or not.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: cromy
  body: I am the member who asked Uli about this old font. If someone thinks I should
    not digitize or sell the font under the original name, I would like to hear his
    opinion here. Until now I am convinced the typeface has all the public domains
    attributes. Thank you.
  created: '2011-01-14 14:30:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Mergenthaler Linotype distributed Erbar Sans, and doubtless trademarked the
    name. I would check with their digital successors before proceeding. Several years
    back, I--and several other foundries and myfonts.com--got sued by Berthold over
    the use of the names City and Boulevard in any way, shape or form in a font name.
    My "offenders" were Boogaloo Boulevard NF (nothing AT ALL like Berthold Boulevard)
    and City SLicker (nothing AL ALL like Berthold City)...
  created: '2011-01-14 16:52:52'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "Really not sure about this:\r\n\"Therefore, a digitization of Erbar Mediaeval
    will be public domain too, just like the original font made by Erbar is public
    domain.\"\r\n\r\nIts really depending what you're doing as designer. Based on
    a the \"fact\" that new technologies demand new designs (thanks Mr Zapf), I assume
    that a good designer will not just scan and do autotrace but will really design
    a typeface in the style of the old typeface.\r\n\r\nIts what happening all the
    time in the history of typeface. *Adobe Garamond* and so on.\r\n\r\nBut indeed,
    what ever new interpretation of a recent design, contact first any people connected
    with the original typeface or current digital version."
  created: '2011-01-14 17:19:44'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "oldnick:\r\n\r\n> Mergenthaler Linotype distributed Erbar Sans, and doubtless
    trademarked the name.\r\n\r\nProve it!\r\n\r\nAs regards \"Erbar Mediaeval\" (in
    Germany also spelled \"Erbar Medi\xE4val\"), this font name consists of two components:\r\n\r\n1)
    \"Erbar\" is the name of a German typographer\r\n2) \"Mediaeval\" is the generic
    German term for \"old style\"\r\n\r\n1) ad \"Mediaeval\" as a Generic term:\r\n\r\nGeneric
    terms such as \"Mediaeval\" cannot be registered. Harvey Hunt even tried to register
    the generic term \"Standard\", but did not succeed.\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/standard.pdf\r\n\r\n2)
    ad \"Erbar\" as the name of a person:\r\n\r\nThe name \"Erbar\" without any additions
    cannot be registered as a font name.\r\n\r\nThe German typographic company Schumacher-Gebler
    in Munich recently tried in vain to register the name \"Erbar\" for a font. The
    application was rejected by the German Trademark Office with the remark \"Eintragung
    nicht m\xF6glich\" (= \"Registration not possible\").\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-Trademark.pdf\r\n\r\nBut
    the combination \"Erbar\" + \"Mediaeval\" = \"Erbar Mediaeval\" could be registered
    as a trademark for the font shown above\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-II.jpg\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I know, nobody ever tried to register this font name, and as far as I know,
    nobody offers the font \"Erbar Mediaeval\" for sale. Hence, whosoever comes first
    and publishes a digitization of the \"Erbar Mediaeval\" font, may call it \"Erbar
    Mediaeval\".\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-14 18:00:54'
- author:
    name: cromy
  body: "@oldnick - That is a horrible story ! I don't know how could that happen.
    Seems nowadays there are a lot of people in the font business who spend more time
    sueing others than making fonts. I see you have an impressive portfolio of lovely
    old style typefaces - and what a coincidence! a font from the same period (1910
    -1913) and from the same part of the world - I'm talking about Kleukens Antiqua
    :\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/nicksfonts/kleukens-antiqua-nf/\r\n\r\nCan
    you, please, give me a few hints, what measures did you take to assure that nobody
    sues you (hope not already happened) for reviving and selling this typeface with
    the original name ? Thank you"
  created: '2011-01-14 18:06:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "As regards Harvey Hunt, read his famous claim\r\non page 7 of the file mentioned
    above:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/standard.pdf\r\n\r\n<strong>To the best
    of my knowledge and belief, after\r\ninquiry, there is no \u201Cstandard\u201D
    font in the\r\ntype industry.</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>To the best of my knowledge
    and belief, after\r\ninquiry, the term STANDARD as understood in\r\nthe type industry
    has no significance other\r\nthan to identify the typeface marketed by\r\nBerthold
    under the mark BERTHOLD STANDARD.</strong>\r\n\r\nI wonder whether the inmates
    of a lunatic asylum\r\nwould agree to this utter nonsense."
  created: '2011-01-14 18:13:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@uli...\r\n\r\nI don't need to prove anything; I merely made a \"better safe
    than sorry\" suggestion.\r\n\r\nYes, copyright laws differ from country to country:
    what Germany says cannot be done may be perfectly allowable under US copyright
    law. For example, Berthold claimed copyright to the name Boton BE/BQ, which effectively
    prevented Alfred Boton from using HIS OWN NAME for any other of his works in the
    US.\r\n\r\nLawsuits don't have to have a sound basis in order to be filed but,
    in US courts at least, once a person is sued, it is his or her responsibility
    to prove that the claims are bogus: in other words, in civil court, one is presumed
    guilty unless he or she proves otherwise. So, I repeat: better safe than sorry.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-14 18:38:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "jfp:\r\n\r\n<cite>Really not sure about this: \"Therefore, a digitization
    of Erbar Mediaeval will be public domain too, just like the original font made
    by Erbar is public domain.\" Its really depending what you're doing as designer.
    Based on a the \"fact\" that new technologies demand new designs (thanks Mr Zapf),
    I assume that a good designer will not just scan and do autotrace but will really
    design a typeface in the style of the old typeface. Its what happening all the
    time in the history of typeface. *Adobe Garamond* and so on.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    this illegal <strong>Copyright Revival Procedure</strong> customary in France
    too?\r\n\r\nIs it customary in France to modify public-domain works and to rename
    them\r\n\r\n<strong>Porchez Balzac</strong>\r\n<strong>Porchez Gauguin</strong>\r\n\r\nand
    to add <strong>Revived Copyright Notices</strong> to the public-domain works\r\n\r\n<strong>Porchez
    Balzac \xA9 Copyright by Jean F Porchez 2011</strong>\r\n<strong>Porchez Gauguin
    \xA9 Copyright by Jean F Porchez 2011</strong>\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-15 08:28:06'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>So, I repeat: better safe than sorry.</em>\r\n\r\nYou said it. It's getting
    to the point where I think I should name fonts with strings of random letters
    to avoid getting more C&D letters."
  created: '2011-01-16 01:44:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ray\r\nSeriously? Whose jerking you around about names?\r\n\r\n@oldnick\r\n\"Berthold
    claimed copyright to the name Boton BE/BQ\"\r\nCan't claim copyright to that.
    Trademark perhaps?"
  created: '2011-01-16 06:22:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Trademark perhaps?</em>\r\n\r\nTM it is..."
  created: '2011-01-16 18:04:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Boton is Registered Trademark for entire Europe till 2020\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Boton-Trademark.pdf"
  created: '2011-01-16 20:29:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>\"Do not make the legal mistake of claiming copyright to digitizations
    of the public domain Erbar fonts, because nobody can claim copyright to something
    that is in public domain. Neither the heirs of Erbar nor anyone else can do that.
    Therefore, a digitization of Erbar Mediaeval will be public domain too, just like
    the original font made by Erbar is public domain.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Many
    people at the Typophile website erroneously think that they can become the copyright
    owner of a public domain font by digitizing this public domain font. This is legal
    nonsense.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nUli is misrepresenting both the views of \"many people
    at the Typophile website\" and as far as I can tell, the reasonably settled state
    of US law on the subject, by conflating the underlying design and the digital
    representation.\r\n\r\nWhat is commonly believed and claimed is that by digitizing
    a public domain *design*, one may create a digital font and have copyright on
    the font. This belief is founded on pre-existing practice, strongly supported
    by both the broad situation and the details of the summary judgment of Judge Ronald
    Whyte of the US 9th Federal District Court in the Adobe v SSI case.\r\n\r\nhttp://directory.serifmagazine.com/Ethics_and_Law/Copyright/judgement.php4\r\n\r\nSpecifically,
    Whyte found:\r\n\r\n\"The evidence presented shows that there is some creativity
    in designing the font software programs. While the glyph dictates to a certain
    extent what points the editor must choose, it does not dictate every point that
    must be chosen. Adobe has shown that font editors make creative choices as to
    what points to select based on the image in front of them on the computer screen.
    The code is determined directly from the selection of the points. Thus, any copying
    of the points is copying of literal expression, that is, in essence, copying of
    the computer code itself.\"\r\n\r\nWhether or not the abstract design is protected
    by copyright (which it sadly is not in the USA), the placement of on and off-curve
    points in digitizing that design is itself protected by copyright in the USA.
    Judge Whyte found this to be the case as a simple matter of law.\r\n\r\nNeither
    Uli nor I is a lawyer, and the sensible thing to do would be to consult one on
    these sorts of questions.\r\n\r\nThe other sensible thing to do would be to consider
    the past behavior of the most likely complainant, Berthold, the likelihood of
    them suing you, and whether you are willing to contend with such a lawsuit, even
    if you have reason to believe you could win in the end.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-17 00:11:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Whether or not the abstract design is protected by copyright (which it sadly
    is not in the USA), the placement of on and off-curve points in digitizing that
    design is itself protected by copyright in the USA.\r\n\r\nInteresting. Looking
    through the telescope the other way, does that then mean that any pre- or non-digital
    face can be revived/digitised without infringing copyright (positioning nodes
    and bcps from scratch)?"
  created: '2011-01-17 00:47:48'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Let me add a small information.\r\n\r\nA type design from someone dead in
    1935 is in public domain in almost all countries \u2013standard copyright length
    varies from 50 to 70 years. So, it can be freely reused to create new fonts. But
    the new font based on that type design is <strong>not</strong> in public domain.\r\n\r\nSee:
    a new font has other additional works, as digitalization, OT programing and kerning.
    This is new intellectual creation and cannot be freely reused. Thus, the font
    cannot be freely copied, its use must follow the EULA conditions.\r\n\r\nWhat
    remain in public domain even in the new font is the type design. This means anyone
    can produce another font using the same design. There is no illegal copy of the
    glyphs as their shapes are public (of course, I'm talking about a simple reedition
    of a font in new format. maybe with small adjusts, and not a revival).\r\n\r\nIn
    some countries, there is a split between copyright and software protection. Under
    this legal model, this new font wouldn't have elements protected by copyright
    (the only artistic creation is the type design and it's expired). But anyway this
    new font cannot be copied due to software protection \u2013which actually is very
    similar to copyright, but preserves technical solutions instead of artistic creations.\r\n\r\nAnalogy
    with music applies. A piece from Debussy is in public domain; it can be freely
    performed and recorded by any orchestra. But a CD with his works is not public
    domain \u2013it brings efforts by other people, some of them also protected by
    copyright, as performers\u2013 and cannot be copied.\r\n\r\nAlmost all Western
    countries follow these guidelines, with small variations, as Intellectual Property
    rules proposed by WIPO were adopted in a near standard basis."
  created: '2011-01-17 03:32:19'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Since Adobe v SSi has been brought up, the following is worth a read:\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/kinch.html\">The SSI/Adobe Case</a>\r\n\r\nAs
    for myself, as a matter of law, not morality, I agree with Luc Devroye's opinion:\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    think that this particular judge was taken for a ride by the lawyers of Adobe
    and Emigre. He made an erroneous judgment, and Paul King was within his legal
    rights.\"</em>\r\n\r\nDevroye adds:\r\n\r\n<em>\"Morally, Paul King's actions
    were deplorable, but that is another matter.\"</em>\r\n\r\nMe, I don't know enough
    about the case. Or King's motives. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-17 05:56:24'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@Richard\r\n<em>Seriously? Whose jerking you around about names?</em>\r\n\r\nmonolithic
    font corporations\r\nrock bands\r\nmovie companies\r\n\r\nThe only plus side to
    making fonts based on trademarked logos is that it's kind of fun to try to guess
    who the next C&D letter is going to come from. On my list of reasons why I don't
    recommend making free fonts: contacting every free font site to recall a font
    release over a decade ago is a frustrating/humiliating task. At least with commercial
    vendors, I can recall a font in a matter of minutes. A few weeks ago it took me
    5 solid days to attempt to recall a free font from a zillion font sites who deliberately
    hide their contact information."
  created: '2011-01-17 11:02:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "typodermic:\r\n\r\n> <cite>A few weeks ago it took me 5 solid days to attempt
    to recall a free font from a zillion font sites</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is surprising,
    since the trademark law does not apply to non-trade things.\r\n\r\nIf a font is
    really for free, i.e. if the font is not a commercial commodity sold against payment,
    but a font made just for fun, the trademark law does not apply at all to such
    a non-commercial, non-trade object.\r\n\r\nFor instance, if someone writes the
    trademark \"Pepsi-Cola\" just for fun on the hood of his old car, he cannot be
    sued by PepsiCo Inc. The same holds true, if someone making a free font as a pastime
    or leisure activity labels this free font \"Pepsi-Cola\".\r\n\r\nEven a novelist
    cannot be sued by PepsiCo Inc, if the novel begins with the sentence:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"The
    trademark shyster with his greedy eyes was drinking Pepsi-Cola\"</strong>\r\n\r\nIf
    all this were forbidden by trademark law, you could not even enter a drug store
    or a pub and say: \"I want to drink a Pepsi-Cola\", without fearing to receive
    a cease-and-desist letter by some trademark shyster.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-17 12:46:08'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thanks, Ray. Interesting. It's the technological times we live in. Even pre-internet,
    there were law firms who specialized in this. If there was any similarity in the
    name at all, a pre-prepared letter went out. Like a collection agency. The one
    time it happened to me, I had to have an attorney respond to explain that they
    were off the wall and that was the end of it. That's the problem - the costs of
    defending. In your case, the cost of a recall.\r\nIs it fair to call it harrassment?
    Well, sometimes it most definitely is. Competitive gamesmanship.\r\nAnd once in
    a blue moon it's legitimate, of course.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-17 15:38:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I wrote something more detailed and critical in this post, but I turned around
    and immediately deleted it because I realized I just don't want to engage any
    further, and rather revert to my policy of not responding to anything Uli says.\r\n\r\nIn
    place of that lengthy post, I'll just reiterate that Uli is not a lawyer. I in
    return am certainly not offering legal advice, but merely trying to suggest that
    some of the advice being offered here has been highly suspect. Go talk to a lawyer
    if you want legal advice. Also, do some reading on your own. Read the Adobe vs
    SSI decision, which I linked to earlier. Read up on trademarks.\r\n\r\nI will
    say in parting, as somebody who has been around the block a few times, if I was
    given a choice between cutting off one of my own toes and digitizing and naming
    a font as described here, I would carefully consider the balance between these
    options, and ask \"which toe\"?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-17 17:00:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Uli is not a lawyer.</em>\r\n\r\nNor, it would seem, is he familiar with
    American Civil Law. I reiterate, in U.S. civil courts, a case does not have to
    have merit in order to be filed, and defending one's self against a lawsuit, frivolous
    or not, can be costly and/or time-consuming."
  created: '2011-01-17 17:14:23'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<cite>Trademark law does not apply to non-trade things.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is wrong. Everything eligible to be protected under any category of intellectual
    property (what includes trademark for font names) would keep its privileges no
    matters if it is commercially used or not. To freely distribute a font is not
    a right withdrawal. Of course, commercial use is the main privilege granted to
    its owner, but it's not the only one.\r\n\r\nUsually there is confusion between
    trademarks, patents, industrial designs and copyrights. When discussing these
    matters in relation to fonts, it may refer to trademarks (font name), copyrights
    (shapes) or copyright-related issues (codes, mappings, kerning, hinting, etc.).\r\n\r\nI
    suggest some survey in [[http://www.wipo.int/portal/index.html.en|WIPO]], where
    one finds much information about this and also some ways to solve international
    infringements.\r\n\r\n<cite>In U.S. civil courts, a case does not have to have
    merit in order to be filed.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnhappily, it's also this way in many
    other places. And even in countries where legal procedures permit the judge to
    refuse a case due to complete lack of minimum sense, this is not always done due
    to excessive number of cases.\r\n\r\nThere are notorious cases where people sued
    God, Devil, Abraham, Adam, etc. and the procedure advanced for weeks or months
    before a judge finally aborted it.\r\n\r\nLast year a person filed dozens of identical
    cases in Rio because he did bet and lost in Brazilian Federal lottery. The Federal
    Bank who manages the lottery was even notified to answer some of the cases before
    Judiciary finally perceived what was happening...\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-17 18:05:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Freiberger:\r\n\r\n> Trademark law does not apply to non-trade things.\r\n\r\n>
    This is wrong.\r\n\r\nIf you get a daughter (undisputedly a non-trade thing) and
    you name your daughter Mercedes, neither the Mercedes car company nor any other
    company claiming trademark rights to the name Mercedes can sue you for trademark
    infringement."
  created: '2011-01-17 18:05:53'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Uli, the problem here is the difference between goodies freely available
    (as a free font) and things which <em>cannot</em> be subject of commercial operations
    (as the daughter in your example). These last does produce trademarks or any other
    intellectual property. But a free font is not an example of this category.\r\n\r\nYou
    call these things non-trade. I'm not sure (as my English is far from good) but
    I thought non-trade was related to tertiary sector and non profit actions, not?
    In Roman Law we have the expression \"goodies out of commerce\" to indicate things
    like human beings, personal names, sunlight, wind, rain, etc. Probably there is
    a Common Law equivalent.\r\n\r\nAnyway, a free font <em>can</em> have trademarks
    or other IPs associated.\r\n\r\n<em>Sidenote:</em> after Jellinek's story, it
    would be funny if Mercedes sue someone who name a daughter Mercedes. "
  created: '2011-01-17 19:24:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"Go talk to a lawyer if you want legal advice.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    this misses the problem, Thomas. Why is it so hard to figure out what the law
    is? What's permissible and what isn't? What kind of situation are we in that we
    need to consult with lawyers at every turn? (Which of course puts the people with
    the money for lawyers at a natural advantage.)\r\n\r\nIf there's any lesson to
    be had in this thread (doubtful, I know, considering the BS level), I think that's
    it.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-01-18 00:58:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> What kind of situation are we in that we need to consult with lawyers
    at every turn?</em>\r\n\r\nNot every turn. If someone is going to adopt appropriation
    as a business model, then it would be foolish to not take legal advice.\r\nOn
    the other hand, it's possible to design new typefaces with new names, and get
    by without a lawyer."
  created: '2011-01-18 02:03:37'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Nick Shinn writes:\r\n\r\n<cite> On the other hand, it's possible to design
    new typefaces with new names, and get by without a lawyer. </cite>\r\n\r\nWith
    the myriads of fonts available, though, determining whether you've really got
    a new name can be tricky. Of course, the likelihood that an original font shares
    a name with another font which it closely resembles is extremely small (unless,
    of course, you're dealing with a name like 'Trajan' which suggests a particular
    pedigree), but even if the fonts are clearly distinct you still risk claims of
    trademark infringement.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-01-18 03:34:56'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nickshinn\r\n\r\n<em>\"On the other hand, it's possible to design new typefaces
    with new names, and get by without a lawyer.\"</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not so sure about
    that. Have you spoken to a lawyer about this?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-18 04:14:15'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "BTW - I should make it clear that I'm not referring to behavior that's stupid
    by anyone's lights. If you look and see that someone has a trademarked name for
    a font you're either asking for trouble or out to prove a point if you name your
    font the same.\r\n\r\nBut in that case there is a Trademark registry to check.
    It's rather clear cut. Very little else is, in comparison.\r\n\r\nHere's what
    one author has to say about this. (All of these instances are endnoted with citations
    from the actual cases in the original):\r\n\r\n&emsp;\"I would not have imagined
    that a temporary image of a Web page captured in the cache of my browser counted
    as a \u201Ccopy\u201D for the purposes of copyright law. I would have thought
    that it was fair use for a company to photocopy articles in journals it subscribed
    to, and paid for, in order to circulate them to its researchers. If a conservative
    Web site reposted news articles from liberal newspapers with critical commentary,
    that, too, would have seemed like fair use. I would have thought that it was bene\uFB01cial
    competition, and not a trespass, for an electronic \u201Caggregator\u201D to gather
    together auction prices or airline fares, so as to give consumers more choice.
    I would not have thought that a search engine that catalogued and displayed in
    framed format the digital graphics found on the Internet would be sued for infringing
    the copyrights of the owners of those images. I would not have thought that I
    might be sued for violating intellectual property law if I tried to compete with
    a printer company by making toner cartridges that were compatible with its printers.\r\n\r\n&emsp;\"The
    examples go on. I know that the \u201Cresearch exemption\u201D in U.S. patent
    law is very tightly limited, but I would have laughed if you had told me that
    even a research university was forbidden from doing research unless that research
    had no conceivable practical or academic worth - in other words that even in academia,
    in a project with no commercial goal, the research exemption only covered research
    that was completely pointless. Why have an exemption at all, in that case? I would
    have told an academic cryptography researcher that he need not fear legal threats
    from copyright owners simply for researching and publishing work on the vulnerabilities
    of copy protection schemes. I would not have thought that one could patent the
    idea of having an electronic Dutch auction on the Internet, working out the daily
    prices of a bundle of mutual funds through simple arithmetic, or buying something
    online with one click. I would have assumed that celebrities\u2019 rights to control
    their images should end with their deaths, and that courts would agree that those
    rights were tightly limited by the First Amendment. Yet, in each of these cases,
    I would have been wrong, or at least I might be wrong \u2014 enough that a sane
    person would worry. Not all of the expansive claims eventually triumphed, of course,
    but some did. Guessing which would and which would not was hard even for me, though,
    as I said, <strong>I teach intellectual property law</strong>. You, probably,
    do not. \r\n\r\nFrom <strong>The Public Domain</strong>: <em>Enclosing The Commons
    Of The Mind</em> by James Boyle\r\nBoyle is a Professor of Law at Duke Law School\r\n\r\nSo,
    which lawyer are you going to consult? The guy who did the closing on your house?\r\nYou
    might as well, for all the difference it will make.\r\n\r\nDon't get me started...
    I'm really tired of dealing with geniuses who think their creations - or a single
    thought in their heads for that matter, and that includes me - owes nothing to
    what came before. Appropriation, my ass."
  created: '2011-01-18 05:20:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Although this painting shows the trademark Pepsi-Cola\r\n\r\nhttp://archive.liveauctioneers.com/archive4/wittlinandserfer/19533/1713_1_lg.jpg\r\n\r\nthe
    painter cannot be sued for trademark infringement."
  created: '2011-01-18 16:32:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nonsense, of course he can be sued. Whether or not the lawsuit would be successful
    is another matter.\r\n\r\nRichard: I don't think the situation at hand is actually
    all that complex. If *I* were considering doing it, I'd assume that the printed
    design from pre-1935 is fair game as a source, that other people's recent digital
    font versions of that same design are not, and that the status of the name is
    uncertain but not worth the risk given that Berthold seems to have some claim
    on it. It's just that I know better than to offer legal advice as such.\r\n\r\nI
    am myself on the verge of taking a printed work (rules for a complex strategy
    game) that was created over a couple of decades (1960-1983) by ongoing collaboration
    of a loose evolving and changing bunch of people who never bothered even sticking
    their names on it, and making my descendant of it publicly available. I'm putting
    a fair bit of work into tracking down some of those people first, to see if I
    can get their blessing and reassurance that such availability is cool with them
    and the kind of thing that they think the creators would have approved of. But
    technically there is a legal risk involved, and I recognize that, even if I think
    the likelihood of anyone who has a claim on some portion of the game rules turning
    up and objecting is vanishingly small.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-19 04:20:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n> <cite>if I was given a choice between cutting off
    one of my own toes\r\nand digitizing and naming a font as described here,\r\nI
    would carefully consider the balance between these options,\r\nand ask \"which
    toe\"?</cite>\r\n> <cite>Berthold seems to have some claim on it.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    may start by cutting off your left toe.\r\n\r\nNot Berthold, but Bauer claims
    US trademark rights:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-Trademark2.pdf\r\n\r\nBut
    since Erbar cannot be registered in Europe\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-Trademark.pdf\r\n\r\nregistration
    for the USA is useless for Europe.\r\n\r\nThe Swiss Bauer outfit is a trademark
    grabber\r\nspecialized in writing cease-and-desist letters.\r\n\r\nThis one-man-outfit
    never made a digitization\r\nof the old Erbar Mediaeval font.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-19 05:18:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ah, that's a different kettle of fish. My apologies for mistaking the one
    for the other. They are rather different entities.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-19 06:24:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney\r\n\r\nI'm just tired of hearing \"consult an attorney\".
    Intellectual Property law is a specialty and while it's been a long while since
    I've sought out a <em>good</em> IP attorney - I would expect a billing rate of
    at least $300.00 an hour. But I'm probably out of step and it's probably more
    like $500.00. And the answer to my questions, in all but the most clear-cut of
    cases would be, \"Well, give me a retainer of $10,000.00 and I'll look into it.\"\r\n\r\nBy
    chance, I will be at Duke University over a long weekend in February and I'm going
    to see if I can interview Professor Boyle. Maybe he can even shed some light on
    fonts.\r\n\r\nAs for your project, it sounds like you've got more patience than
    I do!\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 02:01:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "BTW - I unexpectedly found a behind-the-scenes and extremely readable account
    by someone who has worked for years as Literary Expert Witness in copyright cases.\r\n\r\nI
    know of him because of his writings on Prose and Rhetoric: Richard Lanham, former
    Professor at UCLA.\r\n\r\nFor anyone who finds the legal stuff interesting:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.rhetoricainc.com/MellinkoffLecture.html\">The David Mellinkoff
    Lecture: 8 February 2007, UCLA Law School</a>\r\n\r\nFun reading and an eye opener
    for many, I'm sure.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-01-21 02:09:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Maybe he can even shed some light on fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nI doubt it.\r\nPeople
    who don't know typography, whether scientists or lawyers or whatever, just don't
    get it. \r\nAnd that's understandable, because one has to be a multidisciplinarian
    to really contribute -- which is why, for instance, a lawyer specializing in medical
    patents may well have a degree in pharmacology and another in law. (I know someone
    who does.)\r\nNow show me the scientist or lawyer who claims to be an expert on
    type science or type law who actually has some professional experience or academic
    qualification in graphic design or typography. \r\nI rest my case."
  created: '2011-01-21 04:58:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick:\r\n\r\n> one has to be a multidisciplinarian ... a lawyer specializing
    in medical patents may well have a degree in pharmacology and another in law.
    (I know someone who does.)\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\n\r\nIn Germany, for patent lawyers,
    this is a requirement.\r\n\r\nFor instance, at this German patent lawyer website,
    selected at random by me\r\n\r\nwww.patentoffice.de/html/our_patent_attorneys.html\r\n\r\nall
    the patent lawyers listed have diploma in chemistry (Dipl.Chem.) or in physics
    (Dipl.Phys.) or in engineering (Dipl.Ing.) or in biology (Dipl.Biol.), etc.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 11:04:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "I know it's momentous that Uli agrees with Nick but I have to bust the feel-good
    bubble: you're both as wrong as wrong can be.\r\n\r\nTypefaces enjoy no claims
    of copyright. This is flat-out indisputably true.\r\nWhy would an IP attorney
    need to know a damned thing about type to function well?\r\nIt's irrelevant.\r\nThere
    is no need to be an expert on type science. Academic qualifications in graphic
    design or typography are equally irrelevant.\r\n\r\nThe claim is that fonts are
    copyrightable <em>as software</em>, not type. It is the original expression as
    it might or might not exist within the font <em>as software</em> that is the issue.
    Software is software, right? Code.\r\nType, as such, DOES NOT ENTER INTO IT except
    for how the code, as original expression (or not), shapes the resulting type.
    The design of that type is irrelevant. All typefaces are the same for the legal
    issues at hand. Pick a font, any font, doesn't matter.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 16:47:34'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Now show me the scientist or lawyer who claims to be an expert on type
    science or type law who actually has some professional experience or academic
    qualification in graphic design or typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nFor lawyers, that
    would be Frank Martinez, in NYC\u2014which is probably why he's the single most
    popular lawyer for indie type foundries. I'd go straight to him in an instant
    if I was operating independently and had font legal issues I needed dealt with.\r\n\r\n<cite>
    Type, as such, DOES NOT ENTER INTO IT except for how the code, as original expression
    (or not), shapes the resulting type....</cite>\r\n\r\nYour initial point is right
    I think, as is the point that the design of the type is irrelevant (unless a design
    patent is involved, or you're outside the USA). But I don't agree with your conclusion
    that specific expertise is irrelevant. That specific expertise is about legal
    issues around fonts, not necessarily about type design per se.\r\n\r\nI strongly
    believe it helps to have a lawyer who knows and understands the exact same stuff
    you're talking about, BEFORE you go and talk to them about it. Somebody who has
    already read the various legal info specifically relevant in this area, including
    understanding the published position of the US Copyright Office on the subject,
    as well as the Adobe v SSI case, and potentially others, depending on the nature
    of the claim. Do you want to pay for hours of their paralegal's time to find stuff,
    and then for the lawyer's time to read it? I know I don't.\r\n\r\nNote in particular
    that there are issues specific to type in IP law, where it's not like other software.
    Take for example when Agfa Monotype sued Adobe over font embedding rights in sub-licensed
    fonts. That was very interesting, particularly when it got down to whether the
    font embedding bits constitute protection in a DMCA sense (they were found not
    to do so). Similarly it helps to know that US design patent can apply to fonts
    (again Adobe v SSI is informative), which is a way in which they are a bit different
    than most software.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-22 01:27:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> For lawyers, that would be Frank Martinez, in NYC\r\n\r\nFrank J. Martinez
    is a guy registering trademarks for cease-and-desist outfits.\r\n\r\nMartinez
    declared that the Bauer Types SA outfit owns the trademark \"Erbar\".\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Erbar-Trademark2.pdf\r\n\r\nHowever, the
    Bauer Types SA outfit is a \"mailbox company\" without employees and without offices.\r\n\r\nThe
    Bauer Types SA outfit \"exists\" as a \"pillar box\", \"post box\" or \"mail box\"
    of the Swiss consulting firm Studio Faim SA:\r\n\r\nBauer Types SA\r\nPiazza C.
    Bernasconi 5\r\n6830 Chiasso SWITZERLAND\r\n\r\nc/o\r\n\r\nStudio Faim SA\r\nPiazza
    C. Bernasconi 5\r\n6830 Chiasso SWITZERLAND\r\n\r\nsee www.swissguide.ch/it/consultatione-di-gestione/Chiasso/481615_studiofiamsa.html\r\n\r\n<strong>\"I'd
    go straight to him in an instant if I was operating independently\"</strong>\r\n(Thomas
    Phinney)\r\n\r\nThanks for recommending a guy representing cease-and-desist outfits
    operating independently as the mailbox of a consulting firm."
  created: '2011-01-22 07:20:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney\r\n\r\n<em>\"But I don't agree with your conclusion that
    specific expertise is irrelevant.\"</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe I wasn't clear.\r\nThe point
    is, as you note, expertise specific to what?\r\n\r\nExpertise specific to typefaces?
    I gotta stick with irrelevant. Did the judge in Adobe v SSI have expertise specific
    to typefaces? Of course not. But still he rendered a decision in the case and
    even threw in some tortured technical analysis about \"points\".\r\n'Typefaces'
    didn't enter into the analysis at all.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 14:49:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> some tortured technical analysis about \"points\".\r\n\r\nThe SSI judgment
    was a <strong>summary</strong> judgment:\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf\r\n\r\nsee
    also www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi2.pdf\r\n\r\nIn addition, the plaintiff (=
    Adobe) was the \"expert\" consulted by the judge. This is ridiculous. An independent
    expert such as  mathematics professor Luc Devroye would have explained that \"points\"
    are no computer programs, no software.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 15:18:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Points are waystations on the journey. Every glyph in a font is described
    by a SPECIFIC set of mathematical instructions used to construct that glyph. Starting
    from a base reference (usually 0,0), the code lays out the waystations and the
    kinds of paths used to connect them. If the code used to describe a specific character
    in one fonts is ABSOLUTELY IDENTICAL to the code used to describe the same character
    in another font, chances are EXTREMELY HIGH that one is a direct copy of the other.
    Period.
  created: '2011-01-22 17:57:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'As I have written here before, whether Uli''s arguments are good or bad,
    US law doesn''t care about his views unless he is a party to a lawsuit here. However,
    the US law does care about the judge''s opinion in the Abobe et al. vs SSI case,
    as it set precedent. It might be overturned, but meanwhile it is, I believe, the
    guidance that everyone involved in font commerce in the US has looked to. '
  created: '2011-01-22 18:35:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Geez, it's a lawyer's job to represent their clients, whether their clients
    are in the right or not. That's the whole way the legal system works, in pretty
    nearly every country in the world with a functioning independent legal system.
    Criticizing Martinez for effectively representing his client is just nuts. If
    you don't like it, blame Bauer for claiming a trademark they shouldn't, not their
    lawyer for sending a letter at their request.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth Bauer
    Types SA is at least a bit more than just a faceless holding company with trademarks,
    I've met a couple of their people at type conferences, repeatedly.\r\n\r\nRichard:
    You fail to address my point, which is that being familiar with the case law and
    the state of the law with respect to fonts is specific expertise. Martinez doesn't
    have to do a bunch of reading and research, which would have to be paid for by
    the client. Just knowing general info about copyright isn't enough, it's important
    to know how it has been applied in this area.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-23 06:06:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "William Berkson:\r\n\r\n> <cite>However, the US law does care about the judge's
    opinion in the Abobe et al. vs SSI case, as it set precedent.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    SSI summary judgment is not valid for all fonts of all companies in the world,
    but it is only valid for the US company SSI, which is defunct now, and it is only
    valid for one SSI font, namely for the Adobe font Utopia sold by SSI as the clone
    Veracity.\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/ssi.pdf\r\n\r\nThe SSI summary
    judgment is of no avail, if other companies sell the clone Veracity, about which
    judge Whyte made his summary judgment. For instance the website\r\n\r\nwww.azfonts.net\r\n\r\nand
    numerous other websites offer the SSI clone Veracity and other SSI fonts for sale
    or for free download. Although Adobe knows that the clone Veracity and other SSI
    fonts have been offered for sale by numerous companies during the past ten years,
    Adobe never dared to sue any ot these companies for fear of losing at court, because
    the Whyte judgment was a strange summary judgment, which presumably will never
    be confirmed by any other judge.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 10:02:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">only valid for the US company SSI\r\n\r\nWhether you like it or not other
    US courts will look to this case for guidance in future rulings. You don't seem
    to get the concept of \"precedent\". "
  created: '2011-01-23 12:49:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Thomas Phinney\r\n\r\n<em>\"You fail to address my point, which is that
    being familiar with the case law and the state of the law with respect to fonts
    is specific expertise.</em>\r\nOh yeah, of course I agree with that. (I didn't
    get that this was the kind of expertise you meant. Thought we were still on \"design\".)\r\nThis
    is the ordinary <em>legal</em> expertise one seeks from <strong>any</strong> lawyer.
    \r\nTask-specific, let's call it. You don't go to a cardiologist to treat a skin
    infection.\r\n(For example, the pre-eminent law firm in Franchise law is Zarco,
    Einhorn, & Brito in Miami, Florida. If you think copyright law is arcane, try
    franchise law. Finding a lawyer familiar with it is near impossible. There are
    a handful at best and except for Robert Zarco, et al, the other firms represent
    franchisors, not franchisees so the chances are good the others won't take the
    case due to conflict of interest.)\r\nApropos of this, there was an episode of
    the Sopranos where - after Carmella tells Tony she wants a divorce - Tony calls
    up every top divorce attorney in the vicinity to meet for a consultation, thereby
    making them ineligible, ethically, to represent Carmella.\r\n\r\nTry hiring a
    law firm specializing in IP law in or near Seattle, Washington to work on anything
    that even mentions Microsoft technology.\r\nI had a reason to do this some years
    ago - the idea being that firms heavily involved with software would possess the
    needed expertise. I stopped after calling about a half-dozen firms in the Seattle
    area. They wouldn't/couldn't touch anything to do with Microsoft technology, even
    if it was only prior art. (And that's all it was.)\r\n\r\nI'm bringing this up
    simply to bolster the notion that \"consult an attorney\" is almost always a very
    unpractical and usually prohibitive proposition almost all the time that someone
    is advised to \"consult an attorney\".\r\n\r\n\r\nBut there is precious little
    law that's font-specific. And, as I said, it's peripheral to the main issues.
    The technological issues are not difficult to grasp. IMHO. \r\nThere IS, however
    much that has happened in case law over the last twelve years regarding software
    in general which would be equally binding \"precedent\".\r\nThere is nothing in
    the SSI decision that left anything \"well settled\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 14:36:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "William Berkson:\r\n\r\n> You don't seem to get the concept of \"precedent\".\r\n\r\nThe
    Whyte judgment, dated 30 January 1998, took place 13 years ago. \r\n\r\nDuring
    these past 13 years, innumerable outfits ignoring the Whyte \"precedent\" have
    been selling the SSI clone fonts, and Adobe during all these 13 years never cared
    about sueing any of these innumerable outfits for selling Veracity and other SSI
    clones.\r\n\r\nSo, if Adobe, now 13 years later, all of a sudden starts to sue
    these numerous outfits, e.g. the guys running the www.azfonts.net website, the
    judge, after looking at the Whyte \"precedent\", would ask, why Adobe during the
    past 13 years has ignored the Whyte \"precedent\" thus acting against own interests
    (German law: \"venire contra factum proprium\", US law: \"estoppel by delay\",
    etc.)."
  created: '2011-01-23 16:22:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "For instance, the ripoff DVD\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/f31000i.pdf\r\n\r\ndocumented
    by me in March 2007 contains 500 SSI (Southern Software) clone fonts.\r\n\r\nDuring
    the past 4 years, Adobe had plenty of time to sue the sellers of this DVD with
    reference to the Whyte \"precedent\" judgment. But Adobe never dared to sue them."
  created: '2011-01-23 19:08:14'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Uli has a point here. There are several valid defenses to copyright infringement
    and equitable estoppel is one of them. Antitrust would be another. (And I would
    imagine *that* was considered a door best left unopened.)\r\n\r\nAnd interestingly,
    there is also, in the US, something called Copyright Estoppel in which the copyright
    owner falsely represents portions of his or her work and then later asserts copyright
    in that material in order to sue a copyist. According to my reference material,
    this defense almost always succeeds where the copyright owner has made an express
    false representation.\r\n\r\nThat goes a long way in explaining why the first
    line in the <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/antipiracy/ff_faq.html\">Adobe
    Font Licensing FAQ</a> is worded the way it is.\r\n\r\n\"Generally, font software
    is copyrightable.\"\r\n\r\nWell, which font software do they mean? The fonts themselves
    as \"font software\"? Or Adobe Type Manager? Or what?\r\nAnd then there's the
    weasel word, \"<em>Generally</em>\", implying that some font software might not
    be copyrightable. Well, which font software is that?\r\n\r\n(I'm sorry, but stuff
    like this amuses me.)\r\n\r\nYa gotta love lawyers. The hardest thing to swallow
    about the legal system is that, as a system, it's arranged so that lawyers can
    earn a living. For some, a very handsome living indeed. Once you understand that,
    it all makes sense.\r\n\r\nAs Roy Cohn once said, \"I don't care if the other
    side knows the law, as long as I know the judge.\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-23 19:32:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Judge Whyte's \"summary judgment\" has a Wikipedia entry:\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adobe_Systems,_Inc._v._Southern_Software,_Inc.\r\n\r\nThere
    we read:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Since the font editing programs extracted control points
    from Adobe's fonts, use of those programs constituted copying of literal expression.
    Thus, King also infringed on Adobe's copyright through intermediate copying into
    RAM.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nWas this Wiki entry sponsored by Judge Ronald M. Whyte?\r\n\r\n-
    According to Judge Whyte, whosoever uses Fontlab or Fontographer, which extract
    the control points from fonts, commits copyright infringement by illegal copying.\r\n\r\n-
    According to Judge Whyte, whosoever uses the Windows or Mac operating system,
    which extract the control points from fonts, commits copyright infringement.\r\n\r\n-
    According to Judge Whyte, whosoever uses Adobe Acrobat and other PDF tools, which
    extract the control points from fonts, commits copyright infringement.\r\n\r\n-
    According to Judge Whyte, whosoever uses Coreldraw or other drawing programs,
    which extract the control points from fonts, commits copyright infringement.\r\n\r\n-
    According to Judge Whyte, whosoever uses Internet Explorer or any other browser,
    which extract the control points from fonts to display this Typophile thread you
    are reading at this very moment, commits copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nBelieve
    Judge Whyte, and you'll believe anything."
  created: '2011-01-24 06:28:18'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "13 years ago, Judge Whyte declared in his strange summary judgment:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"King
    also infringed when he loaded into his computer's random access memory copies
    of the Adobe program.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nNow I prove step by step that the Whyte
    judgment is utter legal nonsense:\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 1:</strong>\r\n\r\nLoad
    e.g. this PDF containing a Whyte judgment into your computer's memory:\r\n\r\nwww.greenisthenewred.com/blog/wp-content/Images/100712_aeta4_dismissed.pdf\r\n\r\n<strong>Step
    2:</strong>\r\n\r\nLook at the blue running header:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Case5:09-cr-00263-RMW
    Document177 Filed07/12/10 Page1 of 14\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis running header starts
    with the capital letter \"C\" of the word \"Case\".\r\n\r\nThis \"C\" is typeset
    in Helvetica by this \"program\" embedded into the PDF:\r\n\r\n%ADOBeginSubsetFont:
    KQPJUO+Helvetica AddGlyphs\r\n...\r\n%%Copyright: Copyright 2011 Adobe System
    Incorporated. All rights reserved.\r\n...\r\n/C <1C60D8A8C9B6079F6D8209747A86332E73924F1B07F271169856A53C9157\r\n71D7C530ADE68D8CA49F0A6B3478F9E8176949771F40D91B68E1A88C72CE81CC\r\n0A91B3CFB642960E7EB2127A1637D49961A11F5DD40622F39379CDAB7E5B349D\r\nF832E4955008C5E3208AB258B012A237635179513D820ACF76E0A17ED392C351\r\n599687E8E7D0>
    |-\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 3:</strong>\r\n\r\nAccording to Judge Whyte, unless you
    have licensed the \"program\" of the letter \"C\" of Helvetica, you just committed
    the crime of copyright by loading the \"program\" of the letter \"C\" into your
    computer's random access memory.\r\n\r\nThis is utter legal nonsense.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Judge Whyte, millions of people, day by day, commit millions of crimes of copyright
    or millions of copyright infringements by downloading and viewing millions of
    PDF files from millions of Internet websites.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-24 07:33:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Was this Wiki entry sponsored by Judge Ronald M. Whyte?</em>\r\n\r\nAll
    of the programs you mention UTILIZE the points, by way of the OS, to render the
    fonts; they do not EXTRACT the points and copy them over to a renamed font...apples
    and oranges."
  created: '2011-01-24 17:19:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "oldnick:\r\n\r\n> <cite>they do not EXTRACT the points and copy them </cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    the example of glyph \"C\" shown above two extractions happened:\r\n\r\n1) Acrobat
    Distiller extracted the glyph \"C\" from the font file.\r\n\r\n2) Acrobat Reader
    extracted the glyph \"C\" from the PDF file.\r\n\r\nAccording to Judge Whyte,
    these are two copyright infringements.\r\n\r\nIf Acrobat Distiller extracts a
    glyph from a font file and inserts it into the PDF file, this two-step process
    is done by copying the glyph from the font file into the \"computer's random access
    memory\" (Whyte) and then by copying the glyph from the \"computer's random access
    memory\" into the PDF file. Whyte said: \"King also infringed when he loaded into
    his computer's random access memory copies of the Adobe program\" and declared
    this copying process a copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nIf you view the Whyte PDF
    file\r\n\r\nwww.greenisthenewred.com/blog/wp-content/Images/100712_aeta4_dismissed.pdf\r\n\r\nwith
    Acrobat Reader, the opposite takes place. Acrobat Reader copies the glyph of \"C\"
    into the \"computer's random access memory\" (Whyte), and then this glyph of \"C\"
    is rendered (I skip the intermediate steps). Whyte declared this copying process
    a copyright infringement too, because for Whyte any loading of copies of glyphs
    into the computer's random access memory is a copyright infringement for Judge
    Whyte."
  created: '2011-01-24 19:02:06'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@oldnick\r\n\r\nWhyte's statements are clear. Uli is correct.\r\nIf you are
    incredulous, it's an indication of just how badly copyright law fits with digital
    tech.\r\nYou are probably just having a hard time believing that a 'copying' into
    RAM - which we all know is necessary to view anything on a computer - counts as
    a 'copying' under copyright law.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-01-24 19:27:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'My EULA--and, I suspect, that of many others--allows embedding in PDF files,
    so no copyright laws are broken if the "extraction" is done with my permission.
    Apples and oranges again. And, while Whyte''s choice of words was unfortunate,
    his intent was clear: copying another''s copyrighted work VERBATIM and claiming
    it as your own is plagiarism, and subject to prosecution.'
  created: '2011-01-24 19:53:13'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Richard Fink:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Whyte's statements are clear. Uli is correct.</cite>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for telling the truth.\r\n\r\noldnick:\r\n\r\n> <cite>My EULA--and, I suspect,
    that of many others--allows embedding in PDF files, so no copyright laws are broken
    if the \"extraction\" is done with my permission. Apples and oranges again.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    simply don't get it (or don't want to get it). If someone downloads one of the
    millions of PDF files from one of the millions of websites, this has nothing to
    do with your EULA, which is only a contract between you and a font buyer of yours.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Judge Whyte, if someone downloads a PDF file with a font embedded, he is committing
    copyright infringement. Judge Whyte was not clever enough to understand the consequences
    of his strange judgement. By his bizarre judgment, Judge Whyte makes millions
    of internet users and millions of PDF file users to copyright infringers. Therefore
    his judgment is legal nonsense.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-24 20:04:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "If Judge Ronald M. Whyte views this PDF of his own judgement:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/temporary/Whyte-Judgment.pdf\r\n\r\nhe
    commits copyright infringement according to his judgment.\r\n\r\nAfter viewing
    this PDF file, Judge Ronald Whyte will state:\r\n\r\n\"I, Judge Ronald M. Whyte,
    also infringed when I loaded into my computer's random access memory copies of
    the Adobe program.\"\r\n\r\nTypophile members should not view this Whyte-Judgment.pdf."
  created: '2011-01-24 20:48:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>his judgment is legal nonsense</em>\r\n\r\nSo, file a legal brief in
    a U.S. court challenging his decision; until you do, you're merely venting your
    prejudices to no avail, except the continued annoyance of others."
  created: '2011-01-24 20:54:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "oldnick:\r\n\r\n><cite>So, file a legal brief in a U.S. court challenging
    his decision<cite>\r\n\r\nAs a European, I could not do that. Besides, US judgments
    are irrelevant for Europe.\r\n\r\nBut even if I were an American and offered the
    VeracitySSK ripoff clone for sale, Adobe would not dare to sue me on account of
    the preposterous Whyte judgment.\r\n\r\nGoogle for VeracitySSK, and you will see
    that dozens of outfits offer this clone, but none of them was ever sued by Adobe,
    since the Whyte judgment is legal nonsense."
  created: '2011-01-25 12:27:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is also the court of professional opinion, which counts for something
    if you want to make a career rather than just a buck.\r\nIn this court, the larger
    your business, and the longer-established your reputation, the more you can get
    away with."
  created: '2011-01-25 18:46:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Considering that Judge Ronald M. Whyte only blamed Paul King for selling
    copies of Utopia as Veracity, but never blamed all the many other <cite>\"criminal
    offenders\"</cite> (\xA7 506 US Copyright Law) for selling copies of Utopia as
    Veracity, I wonder whether Judge Ronald M. Whyte heeds the constitutional principle
    <cite>\"All men are created equal\"</cite>."
  created: '2011-01-26 07:55:20'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nI don't know what \"legal nonsense\" means, all I can know is
    how courts have ruled. And upon reflection, if I'm taking issue with someone who
    has the bona fides of Thomas Phinney, maybe I ought to back up what I say a little.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    it has to be noted that all typefaces are unprotectable and in the public domain
    in the US. It doesn't matter if the typeface was created yesterday or 400 years
    ago. The title of this thread carries the implication that it could be otherwise
    - that one typeface could be \"more\" public domain than another. Hah! Ain't so.\r\n\r\nIn
    case law, there are four cases that appear to have special significance in light
    of the Adobe v SSI ruling:\r\n<a href=\"http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?case=16845746302991569414&hl=en&as_sdt=2&as_vis=1&oi=scholarr\">L.
    Batlin And Son v Snyder</a> decided by the US Court Of Appeals, Second Circuit
    in 1976.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.law.cornell.edu/copyright/cases/36_FSupp2d_191.htm\">Bridgeman
    Art Library v Corel Corp</a> decided by a US District Court in 1999.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.ca10.uscourts.gov/opinions/06/06-4222.pdf\">Meshworks
    v Toyota Motor Corp</a> decided by the US Court Of Appeals, Tenth Circuit in 2008.\r\nLastly,
    there's the Supreme Court opinion from 1991, <a href=\"http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/scripts/getcase.pl?court=US&vol=499&invol=340\">Feist
    v Rural</a>.\r\n\r\nWhen you read these opinions along with their cross-citations
    <em>in total</em>, it's hard see Whyte's decision in Adobe v SSI as anything other
    than an abberration.\r\n(And BTW - in Whyte's decision there is a quotation from
    an Announcement in the Federal Registry by the US Copyright Office titled \"Registrability
    Of Computer Programs That Generate Typefaces\" that is completely misinterpreted.
    If you read the whole thing (2 pages) it's perfectly clear that the \"computer
    programs\" it refers to are what we would normally refer to as rasterizers, not
    TrueType or PostScript fonts. And it is carefully worded to make no claims as
    to the validity or level of copyright protection that may be obtained by registration,
    no matter how you interpret what kind of software it references.)\r\nThis is just
    one of several glaring errors in the SSI decision. IMHO.\r\n\r\nMy guess is that
    King was not a sympathetic defendant. And Whyte was happy to go along with a cherry-picking
    of the facts and precedent in order to find against him. It happens, and maybe
    King had it coming and the good guys won. Who knows.\r\n\r\nAnyway, it's impossible
    to reconcile SSI with these other decisions.\r\nAdobe lucked out, that's all.
    Speaking only for myself - I would have to have especially opaque blinders on
    not to consider fonts, all fonts - certainly, absolutely, the outlines - as public
    domain. Period.\r\nMeshworks especially, being an appellate decision, has a far
    greater weight of authority than SSI. And it would, I imagine, be controlling
    in any \"fonts as copyrightable software\" case since the facts are nearly identical.\r\n\r\nBefore
    the advent of computers all typefaces were public domain. With the advent of computers,
    a claim was made that, as digital creations, typefaces could be copyrighted as
    software.\r\nThe courts, on the whole, say this ain't so. It's pretty clear, frankly.\r\n\r\nAnd
    this might partially explain why Uli's dog hasn't barked, that is, why there's
    been no infringement suits in the US for thirteen years. (But legal costs and
    the overall effetiveness of licensing can explain it, too.)\r\n\r\nNote that licensing
    is contract law and another matter entirely.\r\n\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-01-30 16:45:41'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Richard Fink:\r\n\r\nYou made a high-class contribution to this thread.\r\n\r\nMany
    thanks. Having read the Meshworks judgment,\r\nit hits the nail on the head. It's
    a must-read."
  created: '2011-01-30 18:31:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Maybe I don''t get it, but I don''t see how the Meshworks undermines Adobe
    vs SSI. The point was the Meshworks took points from a Toyota design, and so the
    software didn''t, in the view of the court, represent anything new and copyrightable.
    That''s not the case for Adobe''s fonts.  '
  created: '2011-01-30 20:16:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Two things:\r\n\r\n1) Richard, you are utterly incorrect in your interpretation
    of the Copyright Office decision. I think this part of the decision is fairly
    telling: \"The creation of  scalable font output programs to produce harmonious
    fonts consisting of hundreds of characters typically involves many decisions in
    drafting the instructions that drive the printer. The expression of these decisions
    is neither limited by the unprotectable shape of the characters nor functionally
    mandated. This expression, provided it meets the usual standards of authorship,
    is thus registrable as a computer program.\"\r\n\r\nIf you think this refers to
    rasterizer software rather than the font program itself, you're nearly alone in
    that belief. Most notably, the copyright office itself clearly disagrees with
    you, which is why they started accepting registrations of copyright on fonts-as-programs
    immediately after this. there have been thousands of such registrations.\r\n\r\nIn
    light of the above quote (which is admittedly more vague than one might like),
    I would argue Judge Whyte was simply clarifying the law by saying that the placement
    of points on bezier vector outlines was not functionally mandated and hence protected
    by copyright, and by declaring so as part of a summary judgment he said it was
    the case as a simple matter of law.\r\n\r\n2) In considering other court decisions,
    you'll have to explain how and why you see them as contradictory to Adobe v SSI.
    For example, a phone directory and a font outline (possibly with hinting code)
    seem to me to be clearly not the same thing.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-01-30 22:09:27'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nI would prefer just to leave it alone at this point. Summarizing
    the holdings from each case and connecting the dots is just too much work. And
    I'm under no obligation, thank heavens, to educate anybody on this issue except
    myself. It won't win me any points on anybody's scorecard. But I stand by my conclusion,
    though.\r\n \r\nThere's been too much FUD for too many years and that will continue.
    One self-interested person will say Tomato and another self-interested person
    will say Tomahto. \r\nAnd without the concurrence of some leading legal people,
    it would have little to no impact, if even then.\r\n\r\nThat's why I just cited
    the cases so that anyone who wishes can make of them what they will. If I do write
    up a full analysis - and seek input from the legal community - you'll be the first
    to know. (I do intend to discuss it with <em>my</em> IP attorney, however.)\r\n\r\nWith
    regard to <em>your</em> interpretation of the Announcement in the Federal Registry
    my answer is this, to anybody who's interested and stumbles upon this thread:\r\n\r\n1)
    Read the <a href=\"http://www.copyright.gov/history/mls/ML-359.pdf\r\n\">1986
    policy</a> and the <a href=\"http://www.copyright.gov/history/mls/ML-443.pdf\r\n\">1992
    revision</a> and come to your own conclusions.\r\n\r\nI don't know enough about
    how the Copyright Office works to comment on why they might or might not issue
    a registration. The Announcement was about a procedural issue -about the need
    for an applicant to file a disclaimer, a procedure adopted with its previous policy
    decision in 1986 - which they discontinued. Other than that, I don't know anything
    other than what it says and it's hard to square what it says with the notion that
    they're talking about something akin to an OpenType font unless you cherry pick
    paragraphs. And there is the added complication that protectable material could
    certainly be included in an OpenType file. But not a typeface AS typeface.\r\n\r\nSee
    this scholarly essay <a href=\"http://www-personal.umich.edu/~pfs/essay2.html\">here</a>,
    for another take on this.\r\n\r\n\r\n2) Being able to register a font is proof
    of nothing. As the court answered in Bridgewater v Corel. [Emphasis mine]\r\n\r\n<em>\"plaintiff
    argues also that the fact that the Register of Copyright issued a certificate
    of registration for one of plaintiff's transparencies demonstrates that its photographs
    are copyrightable under U.S. law. The argument is misguided.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"No
    one disputes that most photographs are copyrightable. In consequence, <strong>the
    issuance of a certificate of registration</strong> for a photograph <strong>proves
    nothing</strong>. And while the certificate is prima facie evidence of the validity
    of the copyright, including the originality of the work, the presumption is not
    irrebuttable. Here, the facts pertinent to the issue of originality are undisputed.
    The Court has held as a matter of law, and reiterates, that plaintiff's works
    are not original under either British or United States law.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIn other
    words, in Bridgewater, the court rendered the registration certificate fit for
    wrapping fish.\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW - In fishing up the links I kept discovering more
    and more legal or legal-like stuff. This looked interesting by a lawyer named
    Blake Fry.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.jthtl.org/content/articles/V8I2/JTHTLv8i2_Fry.PDF\">Why
    Typefaces Proliferate Without Copyright Protection</a>\r\n\r\nAnyway, bottom line,
    as the decision in Bridgewater says, registrability proves nothing.\r\n\r\nAnd
    now I'm outta heah.\r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-01 16:58:10'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "As regards Blake Fry's treatise, read this on page 439:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Some
    argue (scilicet Devroye), however, that the code that describes a modern outlined
    computer font is not software at all, but a set of data points. If that\u2019s
    accurate, protecting a computer font would be like protecting metal type because
    of the type-maker\u2019s decisions about how to best hold his chisel when carving
    it.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI wish Thomas Phinney were listening to what mathematicians
    such as Luc Devroye have to say about this matter instead of listening to those
    who cheat dimwits by selling data points as computer programs."
  created: '2011-02-01 18:19:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Luc DeVroye promotes piracy and frequently misrepresents people and situations.
    I stopped paying attention to anything he wrote a long time ago. Moreover, Uli
    is now trying to change the discussion to what the status quo SHOULD be, but that's
    not the question at hand. If somebody thinks the copyright office is wrongheaded,
    that's fine, but that has no bearing on the question in the title of this thread.\r\n\r\nRichard,
    perhaps you should note the sentence right before the one you emboldened. Read
    the FIRST sentence this time: \"No one disputes that most photographs are copyrightable.
    In consequence, the issuance of a certificate of registration for a photograph
    proves nothing.\"\r\n\r\nIn other words, a certificate of registration for a *particular*
    font doesn't tell you anything about the legitimacy of that particular font registration.
    I could rip off the code of a digital font and rename it and register the copyright,
    and if it ever got contested, I'd lose. But the fact that the copyright office
    routinely issues copyrights for fonts as software IS telling, and your quote doesn't
    say otherwise.\r\n\r\nI'm not claiming that typefaces are protected by copyright
    in the USA. But it seems reasonably clear that digital fonts are, as software.
    And by the way Blake Fry thinks they likely are as well (whether or not he thinks
    it reasonable that they be protected in that way). He has a whole section of that
    treatise entitled \"Computer Fonts are (Probably) Protected as Software.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-04 00:23:15'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Them's libellous words, T-man!
  created: '2011-02-04 13:20:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1) Luc DeVroye promotes piracy\r\n2) Thomas Phinney promotes fraud\r\n\r\nProfessor
    Luc Devroye claims that data points <strong>are not</strong> computer programs.
    This is not the same as promoting piracy.\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney claims that data
    points of glyphs <strong>are</strong> computer programs. This is not the same
    as promoting fraud.\r\n\r\n<strong>BUT WATCH OUT:</strong>\r\n\r\n1) If data points
    <strong>ARE</strong> computer programs, then anyone viewing this PDF\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity.pdf\r\n\r\nwould
    commit the crime of copyright infringement. Do you know, why?\r\n\r\n2) If data
    points <strong>ARE NOT</strong> computer programs, then any font company licensing
    fonts as computer programs would commit the crime of fraud. Do you know, why?\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-04 14:02:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, if I remember correctly, all computer programs are, in machine language,
    sets of numbers. Are the numbers that indicate glyphs, spacing and kerning part
    of an instruction? Well, in conjunction with a rasterizer program, the numbers
    in the font direct the computer or printer on what to put on the screen or put
    on the page. The rasterizer by itself can't do anything. It needs the input to
    be operational. Hence one could argue that the \"rasterizer + font information\"
    is intended to be a \"program\" for producing letters. Or you could argue that
    since the lines that are obviously instructions, except for open type programming,
    are not in the font, the font is not a program.   \r\n\r\nSo are the points part
    of a program or not? It seems to me you could argue either way, and the situation
    is rather ambiguous. The judge in Adobe vs SSI ruled \"program.\" You want to
    make it obvious that it is one way or the other, when it is not. It is a borderline
    issue. And in such cases, judicial decisions create the law.    \r\n\r\nI'm not
    saying that this is the best way to deal with IP protection for fonts, but it
    is what we've got now in the US. \r\n\r\nYou keep raging about the situation being
    black-and-white, and everyone else being fools, but that's you oversimplifying
    the situation, and not situation itself, which is messy and ambiguous. "
  created: '2011-02-04 16:51:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Libel has to be untrue. Luc DeVroye has provided links to pirated font downloads.\r\n\r\nUli
    is again clouding the issue, in two ways:\r\n\r\n1) I was not representing my
    personal opinion, but commenting on what is generally accepted as being the state
    of US copyright law. I'm saying \u201Cthis is how the law is treating it.\u201D
    Trying to express that as my personal opinion and contrasting it with Luc's personal
    opinions as to what the law <strong>ought</strong> to be is irrelevant to the
    current discussion. I have not been engaging in a discussion of whether copyright
    \u201Cought\u201D to cover digital fonts and how it ought to do so. <em>Just because
    I make a statement that a situation is XYZ does not mean that I agree with that
    situation, nor even if I agree with the effect of that situation that I agree
    with how that outcome was reached.</em>\r\n\r\n2) I do not claim that data points
    of glyphs are computer programs, nor has anybody else I cited. I claim that the
    US copyright office treats a digital outline font, in toto, as a computer program
    (while being unfortunately vague about which elements are protected). I also claim
    that a federal court in Adobe v SSI ruled (in a summary judgment, as a matter
    of law) that the placement of points in those programs in particular is an element
    of creative expression protected by copyright. I made no comments about my own
    opinions on what ought to be, and my opinions are irrelevant to the question of
    \"are you allowed to...?\"\r\n\r\nMy own opinions on \"what should be\" are that
    *typefaces* should be protected under copyright as creative works, but that US
    copyright terms are insanely long and should be shortened dramatically.\r\n\r\n<strong>I
    do actually partly agree with one thing Uli is saying</strong>, although he's
    been rather oblique about it. Given that digital fonts are protected by copyright,
    if loading them into computer memory can constitute infringement, then there would
    seem to be a potential issue with many normal and accepted uses of fonts that
    font vendors are actually okay with, even involving third parties who have not
    been involved in the font licensing process. Opening a PDF loads its fonts into
    memory, and the person opening the PDF might not have any involvement in licensing
    that font.\r\n\r\nOf course, there would seem to also be some very simple solutions
    to this. One would be to consider such actions to be fair use by the viewer when
    they were occurring simply for the purposes of viewing documents with embedded
    or linked fonts, and the viewer was not duplicating the font (which would not
    mean that setting up that situation by embedding or linking the font is automatically
    fair use). Another would be for the font vendors to clarify in their copyright
    statements what uses they permit for unlicensed people. This would be similar
    to copyright statements that grant certain exemptions beyond fair use. Uli seems
    to think this is a big deal. I think it's a minor issue, and if it ever came up
    in court in a more worrisome context, font licensors and copyright holders would
    deal with it more actively. They'd all go talk to their lawyers about the \u201Cright\u201D
    way to do it, and one or more legally viable approaches would emerge. They might
    or might not be like the ones I outline here... again, I'm not a lawyer, nor are
    any of the other folks in this discussion.\r\n\r\nActually, the whole discussion
    has veered off of \"are you allowed to...?\" The OP was asking about the legality
    of selling a new digitization, and had no intention of using existing digital
    fonts as a basis for said digitization. The comment was made that a new digitization
    was fine as long as one didn't directly input existing digital fonts as the basis
    for the new version and we wandered off....\r\n\r\nAnyway, back to my day job.
    Time to go look at some font metadata.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-02-04 17:15:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Luc doesn't promote piracy.\r\nHis web site is value-neutral, in an academic
    manner.\r\nIt includes links to a great many font sites, including pirate sites,
    because its reach is broad.\r\n\r\nSearch engines do a better job of promoting
    piracy."
  created: '2011-02-04 17:42:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "William Berkson:\r\n\r\nSince you address me directly, I will answer directly.\r\n\r\nSince
    I have written several books about computer programming, I know what I am talking
    about. If someone claims that the data points of glyphs are computer programs,
    I cannot but laugh.\r\n\r\nLook at this trivial BASIC two-liner:\r\n\r\n1 DATA
    C,O,M,P,U,T,E,R\r\n2 FOR I = 1 TO 8: READ LETTER: PRINT LETTER;: NEXT I\r\n\r\nThe
    <strong>data segment</strong> is line 1, and the <strong>code segment</strong>
    is line 2.\r\n\r\nData and code may be mixed, but they are and remain two completely
    different things.\r\n\r\nFor TTF fonts, I have proved irrefutably, that the sequence
    of numbers describing the x-y coordinates of the outlines of TTF glyphs are no
    code, but data only.\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf,
    pages 5-7\r\n\r\n(This does not apply to TTF hints, which are code, but this is
    not the topic of this thread. For TTF hints as code, see above file computerprogramm.pdf,
    pages 8-10).\r\n\r\nTheoretically, it would be possible to program a huge mixed
    code-and-data rasterizer including as code segment the rasterizer proper and as
    data segment the entire Adobe Font Folio library. Nevertheless, you could distinguish
    the code (= rasterizer proper) and the data (= fonts proper).\r\n\r\nSince you
    are no computer programmer, let me explain it in this metaphorical way:\r\n\r\nIf
    you have a cup of coffee, you can distinguish between the cup (code) and the coffee
    (data). The cup remains the same, but the beverages may change (coffee, milk,
    water). Likewise, the rasterizer (code) of a given operating system remains the
    same, but the fonts (data) may change, i.e. the same rasterizer code may process
    different font data (e.g. Helvetica, Times, etc.)\r\n\r\nIf a judge shows this
    sequence of numbers\r\n\r\n-227 0 0 227 160 160 228 0\r\n0 -228 -153 234 333 0
    0 -333 etc.\r\n\r\n(see www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf, page
    6)\r\n\r\nto a mathematician and claims that this sequences of numbers is a computer
    program, the mathematician will ask the judge, whether he is sane in the brain.\r\n\r\nJudge
    Whyte, who obviously thinks that anyone, e.g US Chief Justice John G. Roberts,
    is a computer programmer, if he draws e.g. an egg with a drawing program, will
    never understand that drawings are no computer programs, nor will he ever understand
    that sequences of numbers are no computer programs.\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf,
    page 2\r\n\r\nSince Adobe knows that the Whyte judgment is nonsense, Adobe never
    dared to sue anyone selling the Veracity alias Utopia font during the past decade."
  created: '2011-02-04 19:05:00'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n> what the law <cite>ought</cite> to be is irrelevant
    to the current discussion.\r\n\r\nThe Whyte judgment ruled:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"King
    also infringed when he loaded into his computer's random access memory copies
    of the Adobe program. See Sega Enters. v. Accolade, Inc., 977 F.2d 1510 (9th Cir.
    1992). His fair use defense fails because his intermediate copying utilized unauthorized
    copies of the Adobe programs in an apparent attempt to avoid being a party to
    Adobe's license agreement.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is what IS (according to Whyte),
    not what OUGHT to be (according to Whyte).\r\n\r\nBut this has the legal consequence
    (according to Whyte) that anyone viewing the PDF\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity.pdf\r\n\r\ncommits
    the crime of copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Thomas Phinney, who
    downloaded this PDF file committed the crime of copyright infringement, unless
    he is <cite>\"a party to Adobe's license agreement\" <cite>.\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney,
    who all of a sudden claims that one OUGHT to consider downloading of PDF files
    containing fonts as fair use, now deliberately disrespects the Whyte judgment
    ruling that this is NOT fair use and that anyone downloading PDF files with embedded
    fonts is a criminal, because, as Thomas Phinney correctly states, <cite>\"Opening
    a PDF loads its fonts into memory, and the person opening the PDF might not have
    any involvement in licensing that font.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nFor instance, if you search
    in Google for \"filetype:pdf\"\r\n\r\nwww.google.com/search?&q=filetype%3Apdf\r\n\r\nyou
    get 168.000.000 hits (one hundred sixty eight millions).\r\n\r\nThis is the number
    of possible crimes committed by downloading PDF files.\r\n\r\nHence, the bizarre
    Whyte judgment makes the entire world to criminals."
  created: '2011-02-04 19:38:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If someone claims that the data points of glyphs are computer programs,
    I cannot but laugh.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd if someone were to claim that computer programs
    are data?\r\n\r\nAll software is data, including code.\r\nThat is why it is called
    software\u2014the electronic information which is stored in, and used by, physical
    hardware.\r\nThe distinction between code and data is specious, in so far as digitized
    information is concerned.\r\nIt's all bytes, which is pure data.\r\n\r\n\u2026but
    some data are more equal than others\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-04 21:11:21'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>All software is data, including code.</cite>\r\n\r\nI suggest to
    try to read some books about this topic, e.g.\r\n\r\nhttp://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/taocp.html\r\n\r\nMany
    students who tried to understand books on programming and e.g. who tried to understand
    the distinction between code and data soon discovered that they are not intelligent
    enough to talk about this difficult subject. Many students, who thought that they
    are clever enough to understand the Knuth books never managed to understand them.
    Ask Professor Luc Devroye, if you do not believe me."
  created: '2011-02-05 06:31:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Thomas Phinney:\r\n\r\n<cite>> Opening a PDF loads its fonts into memory,
    and the person opening the PDF might not have any involvement in licensing that
    font. Of course, there would seem to also be some very simple solutions to this.
    One would be to consider such actions to be fair use by the viewer when they were
    occurring simply for the purposes of viewing documents with embedded or linked
    fonts, and the viewer was not duplicating the font (which would not mean that
    setting up that situation by embedding or linking the font is automatically fair
    use). Another would be for the font vendors to clarify in their copyright statements
    what uses they permit for unlicensed people.</cite>\r\n\r\nAll these proposals
    are legal rubbish. You cannot force font licensors to adopt fair use rules for
    all fonts. This could only be done by law, not by contract. But since this strange
    American Judge Ronald M. Whyte ruled that it is forbidden by fair use to copy
    unlicensed fonts into computer memory, everyone downloading PDF files with embedded
    fonts commits the crime of copyright infringement, unless he licensed these fonts
    before downloading the PDF files. Therefore, those who offer PDF files for download
    and who think that the bizarre judgment by the strange Judge Ronald M. Whyte is
    no legal rubbish, must provide the download link with the following proviso (example):\r\n\r\n<strong>Warning:
    Do not download the following PDF, unless you have acquired a licence to the Utopia
    font. If you download this PDF without a licence to the Utopia font, you will
    commit the crime of copyright infringement according to the judgment by Judge
    Ronald M. Whyte:</strong>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity.pdf"
  created: '2011-02-05 07:22:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n> \"All software is data, including code.\"\r\n\r\nProfessor
    Luc Devroye says:\r\n\r\n- \"Programs are data\", but\r\n- \"Data are not programs\".\r\n\r\nI
    agree to the latter.\r\n\r\nI cannot agree to the former from the point of view
    of European copyright laws.\r\n\r\nFor example, in Europe, programs are protected
    for a period of 70 years post mortem auctoris, whereas databases are protected
    for a period of 15 years only:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"In the case of a database ... the
    term of protection by that right shall expire fifteen years from the first of
    January of the year following the date when the database was first made available
    to the public.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31996L0009:EN:HTML\r\n\r\nIf
    fonts were databases, the period of protection would be even shorter than the
    period of protection for the design of typefaces, which is 25 years:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/publicdomain.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-05 08:16:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"But since this strange American Judge Ronald M. Whyte ruled that it is
    forbidden by fair use to copy unlicensed fonts into computer memory\"\r\n\r\nHe
    said no such thing.\r\n\r\nThe law:\r\n\r\n\"Notwithstanding the provisions of
    sections 17 U.S.C. \xA7 106 and 17 U.S.C. \xA7 106A, the fair use of a copyrighted
    work, including such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or by any other
    means specified by that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, news
    reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship,
    or research, is not an infringement of copyright.\"\r\n\r\nIt actually seems improbable
    that copying a font into memory *in general* could be construed as fair use. Presumably
    it would depend on the purpose of said copying. That was probably a goofy thought
    on my part. But in any case, the judge did not say that copying an unlicensed
    front into computer memory is \"forbidden by fair use.\" That's part of your ongoing
    campaign to put words in his mouth.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-05 17:44:25'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> But in any case, the judge did not say that copying an unlicensed front
    into computer memory is \"forbidden by fair use.\" That's part of your ongoing
    campaign to put words in his mouth.\r\n\r\nHere is his mouth again:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"King
    also infringed when he loaded into his computer's random access memory copies
    of the Adobe program. See Sega Enters. v. Accolade, Inc., 977 F.2d 1510 (9th Cir.
    1992). His fair use defense fails because his intermediate copying utilized unauthorized
    copies of the Adobe programs in an apparent attempt to avoid being a party to
    Adobe's license agreement.\"</strong> (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity.pdf,
    page 5, section 5)\r\n\r\nYou should accept your defeat. And you should admit
    that Adobe never dared to sue anyone during the past 13 years for selling Veracity."
  created: '2011-02-05 18:06:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That's exactly my point: his fair use defense failed for specific reasons,
    not because fair use could *never* apply to loading fonts into RAM.\r\n\r\nAside
    from which, your \u201Cnever dared\u201D might be somebody else\u2019s \u201Cnever
    bothered.\u201D"
  created: '2011-02-05 18:57:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> <cite>Adobe \"never dared\" to sue anyone during the past 13 years</cite>\r\n\r\n>
    <cite>Your \"never dared\" might be somebody else\u2019s \"never bothered\"</cite>\r\n\r\nFor
    those companies which offer for free download unlicensed copies of Adobe fonts,
    it does not matter, whether Adobe \"never dared\" or \"never bothered\" to sue
    them.\r\n\r\nBesides torrent, peer-to-peer and similar websites, it is interesting
    to note that there are renowned advertising agencies offering the entire FontFolio
    collection to their customers for free download. These promotion companies do
    not care to make their download sites accessible via password only, so that Google,
    Yahoo etc. index the Adobe fonts freely downloadable from these websites. Who
    searches for Adobe font file names, will find these advertising agency websites
    offering thousands of Adobe FontFolio fonts for free download.\r\n\r\nWhat is
    the opinion of Typophile readers?\r\n\r\n- Adobe \"never dared\" to sue these
    advertising companies ???\r\n- Adobe \"never bothered\" to sue these advertising
    companies ???\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-06 08:00:26'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "How Paul King forged Utopia is shown pictorially here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity2.pdf"
  created: '2011-02-06 17:20:34'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Despite my recurring nightmare about receiving one of Thomas Phinney's toes
    in a zip lock bag via Federal Express. (Careful with those metaphors, Thomas!)
    I've come back.\r\n\r\nUli said, regarding fair use, \r\n\r\n>This could only
    be done by law, not by contract.\r\n\r\nUh, I wouldn't be so sure about that.
    The courts in America, at least, seem to have never seen a contract provision
    they don't like. Product liability laws are the obvious example. EULAs allow sofware
    providers to weasel out of any responsibility for how their software might misbehave.
    Consumers use at their own risk - by contract, not statute."
  created: '2011-02-06 18:53:31'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uh, I wouldn't be so sure about that. The courts in America, at least,
    seem to have never seen a contract provision they don't like.\r\n\r\nI was thinking
    of third-party-provisions. At least here in Europe, two parties A and B cannot
    stipulate a contract to the detriment of a third party C. For instance, if a third
    party C downloads a PDF with a font embedded which is copied into the RAM of his
    computer, this is illegal according to Judge Whyte, but the parties A and B cannot
    make a contract which allows or forbids the third person C to download the PDF,
    unless the third party also signs the contract.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-06 19:16:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Uli: <em>I cannot agree to the former </em>[all software is data, including
    code] <em>from the point of view of European copyright laws.</em>\r\n\r\nMy observation
    was philosophical and etymological, not legal.\r\nIt is also the opinion expressed
    by Luc Devroye (\"Programs are data\", which you quoted), so please don't patronize
    me as \"not intelligent enough to speak about the subject\"!\r\n\r\nI have no
    desire to read Knuth's <em>The Art of Computer Programming</em>, which I suspect
    contains precious little art.\r\nMy literary allusion (\"\u2026but some data are
    more equal than others\") was to <em>Animal Farm</em>, the inference being that
    this is a political issue as much as a legal one.  \r\n\r\nIt is the role of technological
    progress to reduce cultural artefacts to \"content\", minimizing their worth,
    and this is the foundation of the value of new media devices (both hard and soft).
    But typefaces are not just an old analog form automatically reduced to data (with
    programs being a more privileged species of code, to the vested interest of technologists).
    They are written directly into digital media, and even revivals of metal typefaces
    are necessarily unique interpretations\u2014as would be the case with the 24 pt
    Erbar font that is the subject of this thread; the specimen has sufficient traces
    of process that will require \"cleaning up\", or not, as the case may be, that
    any digitization would have some measure of originality. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-06 20:56:46'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n> <cite>My observation was philosophical and etymological,
    not legal. ... so please don't patronize me</cite>\r\n\r\nI understand. Sorry.\r\n\r\n**************************************************\r\n\r\nIndicentally:\r\n\r\nDuring
    the past few days, numerous people downloaded the file veracity.pdf.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Judge Whyte, they committed the crime of copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nBecause
    according to Judge Ronald M. Whyte, the downloader of the file veracity.pdf\r\n<cite>\"infringed
    when he loaded into his computer's random access memory copies of the Adobe program
    (scilicet Veracity alias Utopia). His fair use defense fails because his intermediate
    copying utilized unauthorized copies of the Adobe program in an apparent attempt
    to avoid being a party to Adobe's license agreement.\"\r\n</cite> (www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/veracity.pdf,
    page 5, section 5)\r\n\r\nFor Judge Ronald M. Whyte, it will be easy to identify
    the suspects who downloaded veracity.pdf thus loading copies of the font Veracity
    alias Utopia into his computer's random access memory.\r\n\r\nTherefore I say
    to Judge Ronald M. Whyte:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Round up the usual suspects.\"</strong>
    (Casablanca)"
  created: '2011-02-07 05:50:37'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Uli - it no longer matters what Judge Whyte thought in 1998. But he was not
    alone in considering a RAM copy, a copy under the law. \r\n\r\nIt is now not infringement
    to view the PDF under the Title 17 statute in the US Copyright law. Loading a
    \"program\" into RAM as a normal part of utilization is not infringement.\r\nAccording
    the following quotation from Cornell University, this was added to the law in
    2000.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/uscode17/usc_sec_17_00000117----000-.html\">Limitations
    On Exclusive Rights: Computer Programs</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-07 21:16:33'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I wish Uli would stop lying. I also wish more people would call him on it,
    but I expect most have realized it is pointless to do so.
  created: '2011-02-07 21:21:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Richard Fink:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Uli - it no longer matters what Judge Whyte
    thought in 1998. But he was not alone in considering a RAM copy, a copy under
    the law. It is now not infringement to view the PDF under the Title 17 statute
    in the US Copyright law. Loading a \"program\" into RAM as a normal part of utilization
    is not infringement. According the following quotation from Cornell University,
    this was added to the law in 2000.</cite>\r\n\r\nI understand that you want to
    help Thomas Phinney, who behaves like a cornered rabbit, but referring to \xA7
    117 does not solve the problems of the Whyte judgment.\r\n\r\n\xA7 117 of US Copyright
    Law is old hat added before the Whyte judgment and enacted December 12, 1980.
    See here page 1 and page 14:\r\n\r\nwww.history.nih.gov/research/downloads/PL96-517.pdf\r\n\r\n\xA7
    117 states that <cite>\"Making of additional copy ... is not an infringement <strong>for
    the owner</strong> of a copy of a computer program\".</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is obvious
    that the downloader of a copy of a computer program is not the owner of the copy
    of the computer program, nor does the downloader become the owner of a copy by
    copying the copy into the random access memory of his computer.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-08 10:01:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@Uli - Law or no law, the common concensus is that once you buy a copy of
    a commercial program, you are the de-facto owner of that copy, only without the
    rights to copy except as needed for the normal operation of the program. Judge
    Whyte may have made a precedent, but he does not make law. Only institutions like
    Congress, Parliament and the Bundestag get to do that. Nope, Ministries/Departments
    make regulations and must base them on existing law.'
  created: '2011-02-08 11:49:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Actually Uli, you might be right about the date, it seems.\r\nCornell Univ's
    citation might be wrong or misleading.\r\nWill check.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-02-08 13:40:58'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: "This is the first time I have chimed into this debate. Being in the law field
    myself, I always get concerned when I see other people quoting the law. I wish
    I knew about IP law, but regrettably I've never had the need to look into it.\r\n\r\nI
    have two questions:\r\n1. Is anyone in this thread a lawyer?\r\n2. Has anyone
    consulted a lawyer on this topic? Despite their price, they do know what they're
    on about."
  created: '2011-02-09 06:00:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Lawyer? Not me. Just insane(ly bored). Where's the porridge?
  created: '2011-02-09 14:35:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "CaleD:\r\n\r\n1) Not me. Nor is Uli, nor as far as I know anyone else on
    the thread.\r\n\r\n2) Yes, I have had extensive legal counsel on the topic, many
    hours of discussion, and at one point vetting an article I wrote summarizing the
    IP status of fonts. All this mostly focused on US legal status, but with moderate
    attention to the areas that differ in other countries.\r\n\r\nOf course anybody
    who is concerned about the potential of getting sued (or charged with criminal
    copyright infringement) would be well served doing something other than reading
    a bunch of non-lawyers debating the topic in a public forum. If nothing else,
    perhaps this thread shows what the key legal issues are that everything turns
    on. \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-02-10 00:49:01'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I have got to read all this later on\u2026\r\n\r\nAnyway, I still don\u2019t
    understand why typeface designs (not the digital versions, which are technical
    instances, as software) are so problematic to be considered per se.\r\nThe issue
    of \"copyright\" does not coincide with actual protection, right? It seems to
    me it just involves the problem of making a copy, a question which has become
    quite a topic with the \"immateriality\" of digital data sets."
  created: '2011-06-17 22:02:26'
date: '2011-01-14 09:18:49'
title: Are you allowed to digitize an old font and sell it by its old font name?

---
