---
author:
  name: Ramiro Espinoza
  picture: 110426
body: "Hi there,\r\n\r\nI would like to know what is the correct vertical alignment
  for the diacritic mark in 'lcaron' and 'dcaron'.\r\n\r\nI've always made it like
  in the example on the left (1) but after an exchange with a colleague who thinks
  it is an accents and should align with 'acute', etc (example 2), I am in doubt.\r\n\r\nCan
  someone with an slovakian background to clarify this? Thanks!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/screenshop-lcaron_4258.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: .
  created: '2011-01-20 15:52:34'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: Only a period as answer?
  created: '2011-01-20 17:17:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'I always use option #2: I don''t know if it''s technically correct but, to
    my eye at least, it''s more aesthetically pleasing and it minimizes any possible
    confusion of the accent with an apostrophe...'
  created: '2011-01-20 17:44:26'
- author:
    name: mgrabovsky
    picture: 117896
  body: Check out the [[http://diacritics.typo.cz/index.php?id=5|Diacritics Project]].
  created: '2011-01-20 17:52:23'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "The diacritics project entry for caron doesn\u2019t answer this particular
    question."
  created: '2011-01-20 18:02:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Check out the typefaces at Peter Bi\u013Eak's foundry, Typotheque."
  created: '2011-01-20 21:18:06'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: ">>Check out the typefaces at Peter Bi\u013Eak's foundry, Typotheque.\r\n\r\nThey
    are expensive :)\r\nI mailed a slovakian colleague to know her opinion on the
    subject... I will later share her answer"
  created: '2011-01-20 21:26:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>They are expensive :)</em>\r\n\r\n\"Download PDF\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-20 22:28:30'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Preferably (1). You want to maintain clean ascender line (as one would do
    it similarly with the x-height). The second case (2) could happen in handwriting,
    though. You might also need to do it in small cap /lcaron since there may not
    be enough space in bold. I also do it with Lcaron so all \"vertical carons\" in
    the font are at the same vertical position.\r\n\r\nI do not understand how the
    second example aligns with acute (acute for lowercase letters or uppercase?).
    The reasoning behind this kind of caron is not to put the accent above the letter
    since there used to be limited vertical space in metal typography. At least such
    is the common understanding. So the accent should not be above or diagonally to
    the right top, but to the right from the character.\r\n\r\nAll of this very much
    depends on the x-height which I cannot see. If the x-height is tall it will force
    you to push the caron up, esp. in black designs. Regarding the apostrophe: it
    well may be and perhaps that is actually quite common that apostrophe turns out
    to reach above the ascender line (?).\r\n\r\nIMHO the distinction between apostrophe
    and vertical caron needs to be doneby changing the size and shape of the marks.
    The contemporary solution is to make the caron wedge-shaped or more shallow than
    the apostrophe which typically takes comma-like shape. It seems more secure than
    relying solely on the positioning. You can read more on the topic here: http://ilovetypography.com/2009/01/24/on-diacritics/\r\n\r\nCheaper
    models :) to look at are Brousil's (Suitcase) typefaces or TypeTogether's (Maiola
    or my Skolar of course :). Just use the font testers or PDFs and it should give
    you enough idea.\r\n\r\nHope this will be of some help.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-20 22:29:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, do you think that a more \"traditional\", comma-shaped vertical caron
    has any merit in a retro face, or authenticity in a revival?\r\nAdmittedly, it
    may be too much like an apostrophe for present day taste, but if it is quite different
    in size\u2026"
  created: '2011-01-20 23:19:04'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "I wanted to add: in the end it is not such a big deal. Both designs (1 &
    2) are still readable, are they not?\r\n\r\nNick, I have not done any research
    in this, but I think it WAS originally an apostrophe used for a different purpose.
    Then there is a question of what sort of revival it is, if it \u201Crevives\u201D
    (contemporarizes, makes more usable for current typography) or if it is  \u201Cdigitalisation\u201D.
    You can also consider something in between, some kind of drop. There are many
    faces which do not try to deal with the distinction between apostrophe and vertical
    caron and they are being used commonly.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-21 09:48:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: 'To me, #2 is the option that looks more like an apostrophe, and #1 is the
    one that would avoid the confusion. So, clearly I must be very confused.'
  created: '2011-01-21 14:06:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There are many faces which do not try to deal with the distinction between
    apostrophe and vertical caron and they are being used commonly.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would imagine that in the past Slovak typographers would compose the vertical
    caron characters from the plain character and apostrophe, if using \"loan fonts\".
    Similarly the Catalan ldot would have been composed from l + period, or more recently,
    l + periodcentered.\r\n\r\nAnd I suspect that practice still occurs: are there
    specific keys for the vertical caron characters on the Slovak keyboard, or is
    it easier for unsophisticated users to type a plain character followed by a hash
    mark (quotesingle)?"
  created: '2011-01-21 18:58:35'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: Typing is lcaron or dcaron is very simple. Typically, you key -caron- + -L-
    and you are done. There is no special key for vertical caron. Note it has same
    meaning as the classic one.
  created: '2011-01-21 23:26:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The ascending lowercase letters with caron (\u010F, \u013E, \u0165) have
    adopted a different form of caron clearly for technical* reasons: having a tall
    letter with a mark *on top* of it was considered unpractical, since it enlarged
    the vertical height of the line. Especially if the ascenders were long. So a mechanism
    of \"vertical compression\" was employed, and the mark was squeezed into the \"body\"
    of the lowercase, i.e. was simplified and put next to the letters. \r\n\r\n* I
    mean \"technical\" not necessarily because it was implied by the printing technology,
    but also when it came to the \"technological effectiveness\" of handwriting. Maybe
    the word should be replaced by \"practical\". \r\n\r\nMy observation is that for
    those lowercase letters, the main point is that the \"apostrophic caron\" should
    be designed in such a way that when typeset (e.g. lo\u010Fka), there should be
    no visible word gap where the diacritic occurs. So the space should be as sparse
    as possible, yet the caron must be distinctly visible as well. \r\n\r\nThis can
    be explained in an opposition to the English usage of apostrophe: words such as
    don\u2019t, it\u2019s or let\u2019s have no problem with the apostrophe appearing
    in place of a word gap. This is largely to the fact that the apostrophe does,
    in many cases, indicate a contraction of two words (don\u2019t = do not, it\u2019s
    = it is, let\u2019s = let us). Leaving the Saxon genitive aside (though very down
    in its roots, it also is a contraction), the reader of English has no problem
    accepting that don\u2019t is something semantically between one and two words.
    So the somewhat larger gap that the apostrophe creates is fine. \r\n\r\nWith Czech
    and Slovak, it is very different. The words that use the apostrophic caron should
    not be \"disrupted\" visually in the middle. So typically, the apostrophic form
    of caron undergoes a formal reduction: it does not need a fully-qualified comma/apostrophe
    shape (with a ball and all), but instead, it works well with a reduced form that
    resembles a nearly-upright acute. The apostrophic caron can be very straight (only
    slightly tilted to the right), or very very slightly curved (not as curved and
    round as comma). \r\n\r\nThe question of the uppercase \u013D is funny: because
    of its shape, there is lots of space there so the letter does not actually need
    this sparse, or compressed form of a diacritic. In theory, it could well do with
    a classic caron placed on top (L with \u02C7 on top). After all, all the other
    capital letters use the classic form (I'm mixing Czech and Slovak here, so apologies:
    \u010C, \u011A, \u0147 etc. but also those that in the lowercase form take the
    apostrophic form: \u010E, \u0164). \r\n\r\nHowever, since Slovak uses both the
    letter L with a caron and with an acute, for lowercase, the PLACEMENT (not the
    form) of the marks between \u013E and \u013A was apparently a sufficient indication
    of difference. For uppercase, the same differentiation between \u013D and \u0139
    has been made. \r\n\r\nThis fact CLEARLY shows that the apostrophic caron in \u013D
    should not be raised too much above the top of the uppercase L. Perhaps its top
    can be even aligned with the top of the L. Also, in the same spirit, the acute
    over \u0139 should be placed quite to the left, i.e. its \"start\" (bottom) should
    be horizontally aligned with the stem of L. Also, for that reason, the uppercase
    acutes for Czech and Slovak should be quite flat, while the apostrophic caron
    needs to be fairly upright. \r\n\r\nFor some reason, inserting images into Typophile
    does not work for me :( I wanted to illustrate this with examples. Since this
    did not work, please visit these links to see the difference in two of Peter Bilak\u2019s
    typefaces, Greta and Fedra Sans: \r\n<ul>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/greta_text/regular/sample/english/waterfall?text=HE%C4%BD%C4%B9O%20lo%C4%8Fka\">Greta
    Text</a></li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/fedra_sans/book/sample/english/waterfall?text=HE%C4%BD%C4%B9O%20lo%C4%8Fka\">Fedra
    Sans</a></li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nTo sum it up: an important point when designing
    diacritics is not to view them in isolation, but always to design them in context,
    especially in comparison with other diacritics that occur in the same natural
    language. To be very explicit: the minimal-pair difference between \u013D and
    \u0139 should ideally be as clear to the reader as the difference between E and
    F. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 10:54:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "And in just general spirit: in the evolution of the letterforms, minimal-pair
    differences always played an important role. Whenever any two forms were considered
    confusingly similar, some details became more and more pronounced over time to
    differentiate them. This is very clearly visible in the uppercase Roman alphabet:
    the additions that had no predecessors (J, U, W) as well as the later adoptions
    from the Greek (Y, Z) were chosen or invented in a way that made them distinct
    from the other letters, and those distinctions grew over time. This is evident
    in the \"quest for distinction\" of the letter J, where different solutions have
    been tried over time: curving the tail more, elongating it below the baseline,
    placing a bar on top of the letter etc. Similarly, the case can be made that \"\u017F\"
    was dropped because it was too similar to \"f\" in the end, so the more distinct
    form \"s\" prevailed. \r\n\r\nIn the diacritic design, the task is quite similar:
    choose forms that are in harmony with others, yet sufficiently different so that
    they are not confused with others. \r\n\r\nSince different kinds of diacritics
    are used in various languages, but it's not like all diacritics are used at once,
    the largest importance is to pay attention to potential differences within one
    natural language. \r\n\r\nA few examples: \r\n<ul>\r\n<li>\xC9 and \xC8 need to
    be sufficiently different because they both appear in French (both for upper-
    and lowercase).</li>\r\n<li>\u013D and \u0139 must be sufficiently different because
    they both appear in Slovak (both for upper- and lowercase).</li>\r\n<li>\xD6 and
    \u0150 must be sufficiently different because they both appear in Hungarian (both
    for upper- and lowercase).</li>\r\n<li>\u017B and \u0179 need to be sufficiently
    different because they both appear in Polish (both for upper- and lowercase).
    An interesting case here: in some display typography, the Polish uppercase \u017B
    is depicted as \u01B5 to make it very different from \u0179, but this has never
    become a universal norm.</li>\r\n<li>The lowercase \u0142 needs to be sufficiently
    different from l and t, because all three appear in Polish.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nSo
    when designing a typeface for small-size pan-European use, designers should first
    identify the key minimal-pair differences, then get them right, and then apply
    the design solutions consistently to the rest of the diacritics that are in no
    conflict to others. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2011-01-22 11:35:57'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Thanks Adam for the additional comments, however much of what you just said
    was said before or in referenced articles (ILT & Diacritics).\r\n\r\nFew remarks:\r\n-
    handwritten caron next to -d,t- is often written as -v- shape. I think the standard
    adopted the vertical form (e.g. Comenia script is using it), but it was not always
    like that.\r\n- I have seen remarks about typefaces and theit loosely spaced apostrophe
    in English. Therefore, I would not go as far as \u201Chas no problem accepting\u201D.
    There are certainly people who consider the gap as something distracting. Besides
    that you are giving a nice interpretation to \u201Capostrophe is punctuation and
    as such it deals with words where caron is a diacritical mark and belongs to the
    lettershape in order to represent a sound\u201D (mentioned in the article referenced).
    Indeed, two quite different roles.\r\n-note that -\xC9- (Eacute) and -\u011A-
    (Ecaron) are aso used together and no one is considering that the caron in the
    second letter should be any different or positioned differently. The accents are
    quite distinctive. Hence using \u201Cvertical caron\u201D * in -\u013D- (Lcaron)
    can be considered a matter of convention. The letter -L- simply allowed the same
    treatment as the lowercase -l- which is not the case in -D- or -T-.\r\n\r\n*)
    I intentionally avoid to call it apostrophe-like, because then people might think
    it should look like an apostrophe."
  created: '2011-01-22 12:01:51'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: Very useful. Thanks, Adam and David.
  created: '2011-01-22 13:10:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nyou\u2019re right, the phrase \u201Capostrophic caron\u201D
    is misleading. I\u2019ll adopt phrases such as \u201Cv-shaped caron\u201D and
    \u201Cupright caron\u201D. Does that sound good? \r\n\r\n<em>> -note that -\xC9-
    (Eacute) and -\u011A- (Ecaron) are aso used together and no one is \r\n> considering
    that the caron in the second letter should be any different or \r\n> positioned
    differently. The accents are quite distinctive. </em>\r\n\r\nI completely agree.
    Acute and the v-shaped caron are distinct enough in their shapes. So they consistute
    a less-than-minimal pair by themselves. There is no need to pay attention to the
    details of their placement to make them appear more distinct. \r\n\r\nThe minimal-pair
    examples I\u2019ve cited were more tough: the dieresis and the double-acute (\u201Chungarumlaut\u201D)
    in Hungarian can be misleadingly similar if badly designed, the upright caron
    next to \u201CL\u201D may be misleadingly similar to the acute which also appears
    with \u201CL\u201D, the dot and the acute over \u201Cz\u201D in Polish can also
    be too similar, and if the acute and grave are designed very upright, they may
    be confused in French when placed over \u201Ce\u201D. So these are good examples
    of minimal pairs. \r\n\r\nIn other words: the acute and the upright caron are
    a classical example of minimal pairs: they\u2019re VERY similar in isolation,
    and this is why in their case, their placement, when used with \u201CL\u201D,
    is of extreme importance. In case of the Slovak \u201CL\u201D, it\u2019s not the
    shape of the mark itself that makes a distinction between \u013D and \u0139: especially
    in small sizes, it\u2019s both the shape and the placement. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    think I\u2019ve seen the aspect of minimal pairs raised in the discussions about
    diacritics (but maybe I\u2019ve overlooked something). The concept of minimal
    pairs is a widespread concept in linguistics (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimal_pair
    ). They\u2019re widely used in phonology, but I think the same concept can be
    well applied to graphology, or typography. \r\n\r\nPlease note that my point is
    not that the caron over \u201C\u011A\u201D should be any different from the carons
    over other letters. I\u2019ve said: \r\n\r\n<em>So when designing a typeface for
    small-size pan-European use, designers should first identify the key minimal-pair
    differences, then get them right, and then apply the design solutions consistently
    to the rest of the diacritics that are in no conflict to others. </em>\r\n\r\nIn
    other words: if there are minimal pairs in any natural language, look at them
    first when designing diacritics (or characters, in general), and make sure they
    are not too similar. In other words, when designing acute, the v-shaped caron,
    the upright caron, grave, dieresis, hungarumlaut, dotaccent etc., make sure that
    you look at test phrases such as <code>\xC9\xC8\u011A\u013D\u0139\xD6\u0150\u017B\u0179</code>,
    which consist of letters that occur as minimal pairs in natural languages, and
    make sure that this \u201Clooks right\u201D. It\u2019s not a great discovery I\u2019m
    making here, it\u2019s quite an obvious observation and many people work that
    way \u2014 but I thought it\u2019s still worth emphasizing. \r\n\r\nFinally: of
    course the apostrophe (for the use in English, for example) is sometimes done
    as too loose. Then it is too loose :) Yet, as you say, it is a punctuation sign
    to due to its nature, it does need a little bit of space that gives the sign \u201Csome
    space of its own\u201D. But of course it should still be spaced carefully, and,
    again, \u201Clook right\u201D. \r\n\r\n<em>> much of what you just said was said
    before</em>\r\n\r\nBelieve me, in my experience, stating the obvious once is often
    not enough. On many occasions I\u2019ve found myself needing to state the obvious
    again and again. :) Plus, I do have a short memory. I\u2019ve recently been searching
    for online reviews of a Polish film that was released some 13 years ago. I did
    find one extensive review, started reading it, and though \u201COh, I quite like
    this one, a good review\u201D. Imagine my amazement when I read it to the end
    and found my name at the bottom. I wrote it in 1998, and completely forgot about
    it :D \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 13:15:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The term \"vertical caron\" seems clear enough to not assume an apostrophe
    shape yet makes it clear what the object is and how it relates to others.  I find
    the Apostrophe-like name confusing as well as the tendency to confuse it visually
    with the true apostrophe. I certainly admit that I don't speak or read Slovak
    (but some of my best friends do ;-) \r\nI must admit that kerning any of the glyphs
    with vertical carons is more taxing than typical kern pairs and causes me to make
    kerning exceptions more for them than anything else :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-01-22 16:24:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I notice in the "Greta Text" example Adam linked to, that the vertical caron
    has overlapped the serif on the following ascending gliph.  Is this accepted or
    even preferred to seeing some space between the two?
  created: '2011-01-22 16:34:00'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Hey Adam, your posts are overwhelming!\r\n\r\nJust a little note, you posted
    the other comment while I was writing my comment to your first post, so I was
    not actually responding to that.\r\n\r\nRegarding the naming: I know I used it
    myself, but perhaps v-shape is also no good. Best would be to avoid any shape
    comparison, but that is what actually makes the names more useful. What about
    caron above and (next-to-)ascender caron? But hey, I am fine with anything as
    long as there is no word suggesting it relates to punctuation.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the -v- and caron. I have the feeling that designers do not always realize that
    caron is not a small -v-. For two reasons: a) the contrast can be quite different
    b) there are no terminals (namely serifs) in diacritics. Similar case -ring- and
    -o-.\r\n\r\nI like your example of minimal pairs. Well, I do like bringing linguistic
    models to type design, but it is also useful to put it this way. btw. you get
    even more fun when designing for academic linguistic texts with an extensive use
    of diacritics to describe pronunciation in etymology (surprisingly IPA is not
    as adopted as one might think). Basically any kind of combination can appear there.\r\n\r\nYour
    last paragraph made me laugh loud. :) I guess it is better to say more than less
    (which is generally my preference in writing).\r\n\r\nRegarding the kerning: I
    feel your pain, sorry! Few years ago I asked few Czech and Slovak designers what
    is their approach to this. Generally there are two approaches:\r\n1. space -\u013E-
    similarly to -l- (i.e. the caron is overlapping the right sidebearing) and use
    positive kerning to solve collisions with following ascenders (b,k,h, \u2026),
    accented letters (\xE1, \xE9, \u2026) and punctuation (brackets, quotes, question
    mark, \u2026 [remember that Czech and Slovak use 66 quotes at the end]) as clashing
    is very NOT nice. This produces less kerning and it is quite manageable, but if
    there is no kerning, there will be clashes.\r\n2. space -\u013E- so there is enough
    space on the right side of the caron and it does not overlap with following ascenders
    and use negative kerning to shift letters closer if possible. The amount is at
    maximum the space you added because of the caron, however see the note below.
    You also need to shift a word space a little! More confusing, but less vurnerable
    \u2013 works even without kerning.\r\n\r\nNote that the bolder the caron is and
    the higher the x-height is the more you need to consider the caron shape when
    spacing. So for example when it comes to approach [1] and typeface with a medium
    x-height, the -\u013E- and -l- spacing in the black weight will be quite different
    on the right side while in the regular it can be practically the same.\r\n\r\nIt
    may be a problem to find all the critical pairs you need to check. If you are
    unsure, simply check Slovak and Czech alphabets.\r\n\r\nWhen picking the approach,
    you need to consider your customers and software you are designing for. I guess
    most of the  independent foundries designing for graphic designers using Adobe
    software can make their life easier and go with [1].\r\n\r\nRecently, I wonder
    if the gaps which necessarily appear in a not-kerned typeface which used [2] are
    not as annoying as the clashes.\r\n\r\nIf any of this needs some clarification,
    let me know and I will prepare a picture.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nDavid\r\n\r\np.s.
    Heh, my comment is not much shorter. :)\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-22 17:51:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David,\r\nI use the: \"1. space -\u013E- similarly to -l- (i.e. the caron
    is overlapping the right sidebearing) and use positive kerning to solve collisions\"
    method since it involves far fewer kernings.  I just have a class that includes
    all ascenders on the left and then I only need deal with butting diacritics from
    neighboring glyphs.  I also adjust the lcaron to space kern to compensate for
    the open feeling the hole makes.\r\n\r\nThanks for all of your insights, Adam
    and David!"
  created: '2011-01-22 19:24:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My practice is to make all accents similar in weight, so that the sprinkling
    of typographic confetti which surrounds letters in accented languages has an even
    colour.\r\n\r\nHere's what I've done, different strategies to suit different typefaces.\r\nBodoni
    Egyptian (vertical caron by J\xE1n Fil\xEDpek) is the most successful, in my opinion.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VerticalCaron_6364.jpg]\r\n\r\nBTW
    Adam, to post images: only PNG or JPG formats, and no spaces in the file name.\r\nAlso,
    keep to a maximum of 588 pixels width to avoid scrolling kicking in."
  created: '2011-01-23 00:36:14'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Nick: Bodoni Egyptian is nice, but to me the bottom left is the most optimal
    when it comes to distinction between caron and apostrophe. Of course you cannot
    always go for the most optimal, e.g. for the sake of aesthetics, stylistic consistency.
    Note you need to be able to distinguish the mark when it is set alone. The mark
    does not need to be only recognized, but also distinguished (unique). I guess
    it is clear, but still I felt it needs to be articulated. So testing with two
    words, e.g. \xABrozho\u010F\xBB vs. \xABrozhod\u2019\xBB, is quite useful.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com"
  created: '2011-01-23 10:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David, is disambiguation between vertical caron and apostrophe really so
    important?\r\nAfter all, the vertical caron characters appear extremely frequently
    in Slovak text, and the problematic rozho\u010F/rozhod\u2019 very rarely.\r\nSurely
    it is better to aim for good, even colour in text -- with the two critical areas
    being:\r\n1. the space between vertical stem and caron\r\n2. the space between
    vertical stem and following character\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the thin vertical
    slash treatment that many typefaces now employ creates a nasty narrow \"bottleneck\"
    between accent and stem.\r\nWhat should the space between dcaron and lcaron, and
    the following character look like, as a percentage of the word space?\u2014\r\n1.
    0%\r\n2. 10-20%\r\n3. 33%\r\n4. 50%\r\n5. 67-100%"
  created: '2011-01-23 21:14:08'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<em>> to post images: (...) no spaces in the file name.</em>\r\n\r\nAh! That's
    it! Thanks. Forgot about this one. No spaces. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-24 06:34:49'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Would anyone suggest the overhead v-caron for these letters in cases where
    line spacing is not an issue?
  created: '2011-01-24 19:58:11'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "In most cases, line spacing does not represent the same problem nowadays.
    From a typographic point of view, I think the traditional caron give better results
    when the character goes inside a word. But considering cultural elements, this
    probably wouldn't be a choice by now. Maybe in the future this could change due
    to the facilities offered by digital typesetting.\r\n\r\nDon't you think it's
    interesting to include alternate |d|l|+caron glyphs in a font, using the traditional
    caron above?"
  created: '2011-01-24 21:50:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Note that in the Latvian alphabet there are several "under comma" letters,
    but for the "g" the accent is moved up, rather than sideways. '
  created: '2011-01-24 22:08:28'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Nick: that is question I am asking myself all the time this thread is active.
    I do not know. But note, Czech (and Slovak is similar in this) is very phonetic
    in the writing, so if I confuse the marks I have no idea how to pronounce it right
    away. Context helps, but it actually happened to me several times that I had to
    read the sentence again to figure out. rozho\u010F/rozhod\u2019 is a Czech example.
    Not sure how frequent it is in Slovak. Sorry, should have pointed it out. I am
    unifying the two languages quite a lot when it comes to this diacritical mark.\r\n\r\nThe
    distance: I would make the gap visually around the thickness of the stem (geometrically
    thinner).\r\n\r\nBendy:\r\nThe answer is no. :)\r\n\r\nFreiberger:\r\n<em>Don't
    you think it's interesting to include alternate |d|l|+caron glyphs in a font,
    using the traditional caron above?</em>\r\n\r\nSame answer. It is considered incorrect
    in typographic letters. I do not think there is any movement to simplify diacritics
    in Czechia or Slovakia, but I might have missed something. Also, I would be careful
    to call one kind of caron traditional and the other one not. Perhaps that is my
    mistake when I called the v-like one \"classic\". I am not very well informed
    as of how the accents changed during the history to be able to say which form
    is older. It may not be simple.\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com"
  created: '2011-01-24 23:37:15'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "<em>In most cases, line spacing does not represent the same problem nowadays.</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    it still does. You cannot extend line spacing as you wish if only for economical
    and aesthetical reasons. The letters still need to stick to some kind of average
    (naxinun) height. Czech is typeset with larger line-spacing (ca. 1 point more)
    than English with the same font, simply because there is so many diacritics. And
    now consider newspapers with the new \"improvement\". That could a big deal."
  created: '2011-01-24 23:44:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Bendy:\r\n>The answer is no. :)\r\n\r\nI like this answer. :)\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid:\r\n>[remember
    that Czech and Slovak use 66 quotes at the end]\r\nAnd what at the beginning?"
  created: '2011-01-25 00:10:08'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Bendy:\r\nEnglish \u201Cquotes\u201D (6699), \u010Desky a slovensky: \u201Euvozovky\u201C
    (9966)\r\n\r\n--\r\nhttp://rosettatype.com"
  created: '2011-01-25 11:53:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Very interesting. I wonder how they evolved that way. Are there any other
    styles of quotation marks other than the \xABguillemets\xBB that I should be aware
    of?"
  created: '2011-01-25 13:06:41'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/39799
  created: '2011-01-25 13:45:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Perfect. Thanks, Riccardo.
  created: '2011-01-25 14:43:51'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: 'Thanks to everyone for the comments so far. They are vey illustrative. '
  created: '2011-01-26 12:44:11'
- author:
    name: goloub
    picture: 128209
  body: What about k+caron and h+caron letters? Should they have a vertical caron?
    It seems logical, because l and d have. But all the references that I've seen
    are k and h with a traditional caron/hacek.
  created: '2014-06-05 12:13:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Looks to me that k and h have enough space to the right of the stem for a
    regular caron while d and l do not.
  created: '2014-06-05 16:46:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "But usually, what I see anyway, the caron is riding high\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/21f/index.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caron\r\n\r\nIs
    the purpose of the comma-caron to keep the setwidth constant, or to not interfere
    with descenders in the line above?"
  created: '2014-06-05 22:13:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Charles, I believe the Czech and Slovak postscript caron it is simply a scribal
    form, adopted into typography from handwriting.
  created: '2014-06-06 21:45:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{Wrong thread, sorry!}'
  created: '2014-06-07 02:51:18'
date: '2011-01-20 09:19:43'
title: Question on 'lcaron' design

---
