---
author:
  name: anonymous
body: 'Briefly, on the heels of that &#40;some might say spotty&#41; underwear remark....
  <BR> <BR>I forgot to add to my &#60;political_foray&#62; above: <BR> <BR>Can we
  here in the U.S. work out some kind of &#39;time share&#39; with Mr. Tony Blair?
  <BR> <BR>What a great speaker. What a great leader. I&#39;m captivated every single
  time I hear him. What great speech writing, too. <BR> <BR>Now, really,  <BR> <BR>&#60;/political_foray&#62;
  <BR> <BR>Sincere apologies for any offenses. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: kakaze
  body: '&#34;This was mentioned by the brilliant lettering artist and type designer
    Keith Tam in another thread. It is a great deal. I have a pessimistic opinion
    of why more teachers don&#39;t push this, but I think it should be a mandatory
    purchase. Train them straight away that purchasing fonts is the way to go. &#34;
    <BR> <BR>Just a guess, but it&#39;s probably because the fonts are Opentype, and
    since they&#39;re from Adobe they&#39;re probably going to be full featured Opentype.  And,
    being that schools still pretty much only teach Quark, they can&#39;t take advantage
    of the extended features in the fonts. <BR> <BR>Quark is shooting themselves in
    the foot by not, first, going Unicode, and second, by not including Opentype support.'
  created: '2003-07-24 04:41:05'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;Yes, for amateurs and collectors, there is nothing at all wrong with
    seeking out free fonts...&#34; <BR> <BR>Most of the amateurs and collectors or
    other users of free fonts aren&#39;t much of a legitimate market to worry about.
    THEY DON&#39;T BUY FONTS. And folks who have to use fonts for a living pretty
    much depend upon technically functional fonts, so most free fonts are relatively
    useless. I collect free fonts, but I don&#39;t think I&#39;ve ever used one. I
    simply find it an interesting historical phenonmenon. I&#39;m not saying that
    all commercial fonts are technically functional either, but most of the better
    known foundries can be trusted in this regard. <BR> <BR>The whole &#34;free font&#34;
    thing has been made to be a bigger deal than it really is &#40;by the commercial
    vendors&#41;. If someone is offering copied Adobe fonts in PC TT, would anyone
    really want to use them for anything you&#39;d want to put out there? <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-24 04:49:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, right on. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-07-24 04:56:43'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: '&#62;And I still thank my lucky stars that I never <BR>&#62;encountered that
    dog photo &#40;used in Mr Hutchinson&#39;s <BR>&#62;sidebar photo above&#41; in
    an animated Flash way.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;Still photo, ink on paper, was &#40;ahem!&#41;
    more than enough.  <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;&#40;When it originally appeared, did it
    make everyone want <BR>&#62;to buy more fonts? Or less?&#41; <BR> <BR>The dog
    photo - on one hand - generated more than it&#39;s fair share of comments. Both
    supportive of its tenacity and disapproving of its vulgarness. It&#39;s common
    knowledge that more people will speak their minds when something offends their
    sensibilities, than when something strikes their fancy. We certainly heard more
    complaints than huzzahs, but it the long run, the quieter folks spoke with their
    wallets - and the foundries rejoiced. I consider the arse de chien a successful
    campaign, thank you very much. <BR> <BR>I am also thankful that our designers
    resisted the temptation to animate the aforementioned item.'
  created: '2003-07-24 16:33:56'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Grant Hutchinson said <BR> <BR>&#34;...the quieter folks spoke with their
    wallets - and the foundries rejoiced.&#34; <BR> <BR>Congrats!  <BR> <BR>I wasn&#39;t
    aware you were with the company. What is it that you do there, may I ask? <BR>
    <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-24 17:41:25'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'Joe Treacy stated: <BR> <BR>&#62;Congrats! <BR>&#62; <BR>&#62;I wasn&#39;t
    aware you were with the company. <BR>&#62;What is it that you do there, may I
    ask? <BR> <BR>For the most part, I&#39;m involved with the design of and integration
    of products into the Veer web site. I get my hands dirty as a code jockey as well.
    I&#39;m also working closely with our product management team on new typeface
    development and identifying promising foundries we&#39;d like to bring under our
    umbrella. Like most small companies, we all wear a variety of hats at Veer.'
  created: '2003-07-24 19:24:31'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Grant Hutchinson said <BR> <BR>&#62;For the most part, I&#39;m involved with  <BR>&#62;the
    design of and integration of products  <BR>&#62;into the Veer web site.... <BR>
    <BR>Thanks for telling me. It&#39;s nice to make your acquaintance. <BR> <BR>Out
    of curiousity, how many people are still there from the old Image Club Graphics
    of the mid and late &#39;80s? Anybody? <BR> <BR>Not that I knew anyone there,
    then. I&#39;m just generally curious; a history buff.  <BR> <BR>&#40;I&#39;m assuming,
    perhaps incorrectly, that your company is operated out of that same location,
    more or less.&#41; <BR> <BR>Joe
  created: '2003-07-25 01:56:49'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Jay Fraser had mentioned earlier on <BR> <BR>&#62;...the Adobe &#34;Classics
    for Learning&#34; package,  <BR>&#62;400 fonts for $99, seems like a pretty good  <BR>&#62;deal.
    And its legal. <BR> <BR>Does anyone have a link for this which actually lists
    what&#39;s in it? I visited adobe.com and darned if I could find any verbose description
    at all. Just a price/item listing in the edu area. <BR> <BR>Thanks! <BR> <BR>Joe
    <BR>
  created: '2003-07-25 02:03:47'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: You should be able to find it <a href="http://www.adobe.com/education/ed_products/typeclassics.html"
    target="_blank"> here</a>.
  created: '2003-07-25 02:12:04'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: 'Joe mentioned: <BR> <BR>&#62;It&#39;s nice to make your acquaintance. <BR>
    <BR>Likewise. Although, I believe we have actually met before - back in the early
    90s at a Seybold or Macworld or some such monstrous software-soaked event. <BR>
    <BR>&#62;Out of curiosity, how many people are still <BR>&#62;there from the old
    Image Club Graphics of the <BR>&#62;mid and late &#39;80s? Anybody?  <BR> <BR>There
    is only a couple other folks from the late 80s other than myself. Blake Springer
    was a contract programmer still attending high school in 1989 - he&#39;s now our
    technology and information systems guy. Brad Zumwalt was fresh out of university
    with a partial BComm and took over marketing for Image Club around the same time.
    He is currently an investor in Veer. Most of the other people at Veer came on
    board during the mid-90s &#40;Aldus/Adobe&#41; period. <BR> <BR>&#62;Not that
    I knew anyone there, then. <BR>&#62;I&#39;m just generally curious; a history
    buff. <BR> <BR>Well, I&#39;m full of stuff for buffs. <BR> <BR>&#62;I&#39;m assuming,
    perhaps incorrectly, that your company <BR>&#62;is operated out of that same location,
    more or less. <BR> <BR>Still based in Calgary - through all of the various iterations.
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-25 02:34:31'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Nathan Matteson replied <BR> <BR>&#62;You should be able to find it here.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>Thanks very kindly! <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-25 03:51:51'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: Grant Hutchinson said <BR> <BR>&#62;Likewise. Although, I believe we have  <BR>&#62;actually
    met before - back in the early 90s  <BR>&#62;at a Seybold or Macworld or some
    such  <BR>&#62;monstrous software-soaked event. <BR> <BR>Oops!  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;There
    is only a couple other folks  <BR>&#62;from the late 80s other than myself.  <BR>&#62;Blake
    Springer was a contract programmer still  <BR>&#62;attending high school in 1989
    - he&#39;s now our  <BR>&#62;technology and information systems guy.  <BR>&#62;Brad
    Zumwalt was fresh out of university with a  <BR>&#62;partial BComm and took over
    marketing for  <BR>&#62;Image Club around the same time. He is  <BR>&#62;currently
    an investor in Veer.  <BR> <BR>&#62;Most of the other people at Veer came on  <BR>&#62;board
    during the mid-90s &#40;Aldus/Adobe&#41; period. <BR> <BR>&#62;Still based in
    Calgary - through all of  <BR>&#62;the various iterations. <BR> <BR>What a path,
    too. That whole ICG-to-Aldus &#40;quite an accomplishment in itself&#41;, then
    Aldus&#43;ICG-to-Adobe transition, was quite a week&#39;s worth of change, as
    I recall it being reported. <BR> <BR>Glad you survived it! <BR> <BR>Thanks again
    for filling in some interesting history for me. Much obliged!  <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2003-07-25 04:04:55'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Jftr, I have paid for fonts that weren&#39;t <BR>anywhere near the quality
    of Fred&#39;s free fonts; <BR>Spacing out of whack, incomplete character sets,
    <BR>etc. &#40;One foundry seemed surprised anyone would  <BR>want international
    characters&#41;.  <BR> <BR>I realize this isn&#39;t the norm, but speaking as  <BR>someone
    who loves fonts, and playing with them,  <BR>I love Fred! <BR> <BR>&#40;I also
    love the work some of you do&#41; <BR> <BR>Dennis <BR><a href="http://www.fontplay.com"
    target="_blank">www.fontplay.com</a>
  created: '2003-07-26 15:01:25'
- author:
    name: andrew_fall
  body: '&#62; Can we here in the U.S. work out some kind of &#39;time share&#39;
    with Mr. Tony Blair?  <BR> <BR>&#62;What a great speaker. What a great leader.
    I&#39;m captivated every single time I hear him. What great speech writing, too.  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>What a wanker. And yeah, Fred rocks. <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-28 09:38:47'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#34;Most of the amateurs and collectors or other users of free fonts aren&#39;t
    much of a legitimate market to worry about. THEY DON&#39;T BUY FONTS.&#34; <BR>
    <BR>Exactly. Free fonts aren&#39;t necessarily bad. Of course, pirated fonts aren&#39;t
    a good thing, as they do certainly hurt sales--but not quite to the extent the
    intellectual property companies &#40;foundries, music labels, moview industry,
    software companies, etc.&#41; make it out to be. <BR> <BR>Bad knock-offs, I think,
    are probably the most damaging, as they appear legit, and, technically, may be,
    but they harm the the integrity of the original work. <BR> <BR>One bit of advice
    I thought was good was to try and obtain a new face for each project you work
    on. This is a great way to build a library of good type over time without a large
    up-front burden. <BR> <BR>Another problem is that I think a lot of graphic designers
    fail to see the full cost of running a firm and fail to charge accordingly. It
    takes money to keep hardware, software, typefaces, updates, etc all running. <BR>
    <BR>There is a case for free fonts, though. I&#39;m an example. I now work for
    a government agency and as much as it pains me to say it, getting a PO for a full
    set of Univers isn&#39;t a big priority when it comes to spending tax payer money
    ;o&#41; <BR> <BR>So, to all of you type designers who have released the odd nice
    freeware face, thank you!'
  created: '2003-07-28 20:45:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; What a wanker. <BR> <BR>You&#39;re too kind. <BR> <BR>Hey Joe, I think
    the one you really want is Berlusconi - now <i>there&#39;s</i> a people&#39;s
    man!  :-/ <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-28 22:11:26'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: 'Hrant said <BR> <BR>&#62;Hey Joe, I think the one you really  <BR>&#62;want
    is Berlusconi - now there&#39;s  <BR>&#62;a people&#39;s man! :-/ <BR> <BR>No,
    I&#39;ll pass. Thanks.  <BR> <BR>&#40;I&#39;m sorry that my comments are apparently
    so unfeeling or out of touch so as to give you the idea that I&#39;d appreciate
    Mr Berlusconi.&#41; <BR> <BR>And yes: from now on, I&#39;ll keep my non-type opinions
    to myself.  <BR> <BR>Sincere apologies to the group. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>&#39;darrel&#39;
    said <BR> <BR>&#62;Of course, pirated fonts aren&#39;t a  <BR>&#62;good thing,
    as they do certainly  <BR>&#62;hurt sales--but not quite to the extent  <BR>&#62;the
    intellectual property companies  <BR>&#62;&#40;foundries, music labels,  <BR>&#62;moview
    industry, software companies, etc.&#41;  <BR>&#62;make it out to be. <BR> <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t at all mean to be smug, but, how exactly do you know that? <BR>
    <BR>The third-party organizations in the US and UK and presumably elsewhere that
    cite the amounts of  revenue potential that software piracy drains from various
    entities &#40;who expect to be collecting such revenue&#41;, cite only as the
    result of taking and closely analyzing detailed surveys repeatedly, over time.
    <BR> <BR>Some extrapolation might be necessary, and as such, they might actually
    be only as generally accurate as a typical countrywide population census might
    be, but how can you strongly infer that they purposely lie by inflating the numbers?
    <BR> <BR>If you&#39;re privy to some authenticated survey document that reveals
    inflation of survey results, I&#39;d love to see it. <BR> <BR>By the way, these
    discussions about profit make me cringe, too. I did not get into type thinking
    about profit. I got into it for the type and what I thought could be done with
    it esthetically. <BR> <BR>The tax people eventually want designers seeming to
    be in business to eventually declare whether they&#39;re hobbyists or really in
    a for-profit enterprise, so in my case, I chose the latter. &#40;I never felt
    right about starting a type company as a non-profit - in the sense that the Internal
    Revenue Service defines non-profit.&#41; <BR> <BR>Along with being in business
    for oneself comes a lot of responsibilities. I think that if what I do is any
    good at all, that I should be able to expect a fair return on its sales. I also
    think that I should be able to expect others to respect my property. <BR> <BR>Pirates
    subvert both those basic, human expectations. <BR> <BR>And for what?  <BR> <BR>The
    pirate seeks to steal my property and upload it to others, dilute my revenue potential
    and wreak my business and my life, and break my artistic spirit, all to make themselves
    look cool? <BR> <BR>How exactly does that make them the big man, except to other
    thieves, other thugs? <BR> <BR>Sorry. I don&#39;t see the aura in it worthy of
    worship. <BR> <BR>I look at a font pirate who takes and blindly uploads, and I
    see a selfish, immature, pitiful, very misguided person looking for love and acceptance
    while making some of the worst life choices possible for themselves. <BR> <BR>I
    think it&#39;s especially hard to forgive pirates who rip off dozens of companies,
    and do uploads that go on for hours or days at a time. I&#39;d say that kind of
    heartlessness doesn&#39;t change. <BR> <BR>In my case, I know this about font
    pirates:  <BR> <BR>We spent much of the &#39;90s being ripped off by pirates who
    one might expect to see in a list of names, and by others whom one might be surprised
    to see there.  <BR> <BR>They kept me from properly providing for my 84 and 92
    year old grandparents when they came to live with us in &#39;98, no longer able
    to care for themselves. They pretty much took out of my wallet money for my son&#39;s
    college education. Another family member, formerly employed here, is now clinically
    depressed because of how they took dealing with auditing the ongoing font theft
    problems. &#40;I guess everyone reacts differently, some being more emotionally
    fragile than others.&#41; <BR> <BR>No, they haven&#39;t broken my spirit. <BR>
    <BR>With it all &#40;and believe me, it&#39;s considerable torture&#41;, I&#39;m
    actually sad for the so-called pirates.  <BR> <BR>I believe that the only way
    to demonstrate that such pirates have made an effort to effect change in themselves
    would be to do this: <BR> <BR>- Deliver a sincere, signed, written letter of apology  <BR>  to
    each foundry ripped off.  <BR>  Ideally, to each artist, since we  <BR>  are talking
    about individual human beings  <BR>  being ripped off. <BR> <BR>- Destroy the
    pirated copies they have, and <BR>  recommend to those who follow them, to do
    the same. <BR> <BR>- Make some effort at starting a long-term  <BR>  repayment
    of some token amount of money. <BR>  &#40;It&#39;s like with loaning money to
    a family  <BR>  member or friend, where you expect to be  <BR>  paid back, but
    they never quite do. <BR>  Even some token effort would show they care.&#41; <BR>
    <BR>The ripoffs are about personal decisions, about property and &#40;for better
    or worse&#41; about money &#40;read, in tax terms: current revenues unrealized&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>It seems logical to me that a mere &#34;Well, you know, I&#39;ve matured
    now...&#34; really doesn&#39;t cut it and actually just exhibits zero maturation
    and more antisocial behavior. <BR> <BR>To those who continue to pirate commercial
    fonts: You are seeing the fonts as something that they are not, nor were ever
    intended to be. <BR> <BR>Speaking in general: Collect all the freeware, non-pirated,
    non-cloned, non-autotraced, public domain fonts you want. But if you want our
    fonts intended for retail commercial sale, be sure you have a license or bill
    of sale to document that they should legally be present on your computer&#40;s&#41;.
    <BR>Now, we actively notify the U.S. Treasury Department and other official bodies
    charged with going after entities that misuse or defile U.S. Trademarks, copyrights,
    etc. What a pain. But that&#39;s what they&#39;re paid to do. So now, if pirates
    won&#39;t heed my simple plea to stop, they&#39;ll eventually open their door
    to a uniformed agent. <BR> <BR>Regarding the music industry fight &#40;for example,
    via RIAA&#41;: Unless it&#39;s in the public domain, contrary to popular belief,
    it isn&#39;t &#39;your&#39; music &#40;meaning &#39;the fans&#39; music&#39;&#41;.
    It is the property of the rights holder &#40;who may or may not be the original
    creator&#41;. It&#39;s only a matter of time before that whole issue is settled.
    <BR> <BR>I also support the antipiracy effort the movie industry is mounting anew.
    The informative commercial before &#39;Spy Kids 3-D&#39; last weekend was very
    good. &#40;Although I couldn&#39;t understand why the URL to find out more, at
    the end, was flashed for about a second. Way too brief.&#41; <BR> <BR>The light
    at the end of the tunnel, for audio and video pirates first, really is an oncoming
    train. Unfortunately, I think a lot of confused kids &#40;and their parents&#41;
    are going to get some very unpleasant surprises. <BR> <BR>It could all be avoided
    if people simply took stock again of what constitutes others&#39; property. <BR>
    <BR>I&#39;ll just leave my opinion on that there. I really don&#39;t want to keep
    getting off the type track. <BR> <BR>But what you see going on with the RIAA?
    I believe that it&#39;s just a matter of time - measured shortly - that the commercial
    type industry starts to adopt the same tactics. Piracy has made it necessary.
    <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-29 06:16:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; RIAA .... the commercial type industry starts to adopt the same tactics.
    <BR> <BR>You mean alienating potential future customers and creating even more
    motivation for piracy, with not a hint of anything positive -certainly not profits-
    to show for it? That&#39;s just like US foreign policy: reduce terrorism by making
    more enemies... <BR> <BR>Fortunately that can&#39;t happen in the font world,
    because none of us have nearly enough power to give us self-destructive delusions
    of omnipotence. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>I&#39;d recommend doing what Carter and Frutiger
    do: ignore what you can&#39;t change. Don&#39;t look back - just keep making newer,
    better stuff faster than the old stuff becomes undesirable &#40;through piracy
    or otherwise&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-29 06:29:55'
- author:
    name: cph
    picture: 110350
  body: 'Does the EULA for the Adobe Type Classics for Learning pack allow use on
    commercial project? <BR> <BR> <BR>Re: Berklee&#39;s laptop program <BR> <BR>My
    friend goes there. It is an AMAZING deal. You get the music industry&#39;s equivalent
    of Photoshop, InDesign, etc. &#40;i.e., software bundles that run in the $600-1000
    range&#41; for an incredible discount. Hopefully art schools will catch on and
    begin to do this, and hopefully they will include legitimate type packs like Type
    Classics for Learning.'
  created: '2003-07-29 06:37:54'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;how can you strongly infer that they purposely lie by inflating
    the numbers?  <BR> <BR>They don&#39;t have to purposely lie to inflate the numbers,
    they could just purposely ignore a patently obvious secondary factor which makes
    the bare numbers &#40;of pirate copies&#41; unreliable as a guide to the actual
    cost to the industry in lost revenue. <BR>While estimates of the number of pirate
    copies that are in circulation are only likely to be wildly inaccurate, estimates
    concerning the proportion of users of pirate copies who would have paid for the
    font if a pirate copy had not been available can be nothing more than fantasy
    guesswork. <BR> <BR>Those with an interest in making the financial cost to the
    industry seem as large as possible can simply assume that every pirate copy has
    cost the industry the full retail price in lost revenue. <BR> <BR>Those with a
    more realistic outlook are aware that most users of pirate fonts would never have
    paid for the font if they hadn&#39;t been able to use a pirate copy. Zero piracy
    would make some difference to industry revenue, but not much. The largest difference
    would be the increase in usage of freeware and software-bundled fonts. <BR> <BR>===============
    <BR> <BR>&#62;I should be able to expect others to respect my property.  <BR>&#62;Pirates
    subvert both those basic, human expectations.  <BR> <BR>Since when was respect
    for property a basic human expectation? <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-29 09:41:15'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: To my <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;how can you strongly infer that  <BR>&#62;&#62;they
    purposely lie by inflating the numbers?  <BR> <BR>Steve Paxton said <BR> <BR>&#62;While
    estimates of the number of pirate copies <BR>&#62;that are in circulation are
    only likely to be <BR>&#62;wildly inaccurate,  <BR> <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s
    false.  <BR> <BR>I think it&#39;s quite possible to be accurate enough. There&#39;s
    always a certain amount of &#39;educated guesswork&#39; necessary looking at historical
    trends of product usage, future projected usage, etc. That&#39;s normal. <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;estimates concerning the proportion of users  <BR>&#62;of pirate
    copies who would have paid for  <BR>&#62;the font if a pirate copy had not been
    available <BR>&#62;can be nothing more than fantasy guesswork.  <BR> <BR> <BR>I
    think that&#39;s also false.  <BR> <BR>For instance, a large number of the users
    of pirate font software copies are people who work in the graphic arts. It&#39;s
    often art directors and also production workers at service bureaus. That&#39;s
    been well known since the dawn of desktop publishing.  <BR> <BR>Nearly two decades
    of police-accompanied raids on those businesses documented by the third-party
    monitoring organizations now have many thousands of logs of what software was
    present at the point of the raid. <BR> <BR>There is plenty of data &#40;and would
    have been by 1995&#41; to get an accurate enough picture of the extent of piracy.
    An honestly accurate enough view. <BR> <BR>Fantasy guesswork &#40;again, I&#39;d
    call it &#39;educated guesswork&#39; since it&#39;s by professionals who have
    data collected to start with, and then extrapolate data professionally for a living&#41;
    happens all the time in business projections.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve watched the type
    industry for 30 years, and the microcomputer software industry since the early
    &#39;80s, and I&#39;ve never gotten the impression that there has been any effort
    to inflate piracy figures. <BR> <BR>I run a business. I want the numbers to be
    as accurate as possible. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Those with an interest in making the
    financial <BR>&#62;cost to the industry seem as large as possible  <BR>&#62;can
    simply assume that every pirate copy has  <BR>&#62;cost the industry the full
    retail price in  <BR>&#62;lost revenue.  <BR> <BR> <BR>No. Sometimes it would
    have been a discounted price. But yes, every pirate copy has indeed cost the industry
    some tangible, definable cost. <BR> <BR>Most every instance of piracy is, after
    all, a conscious act. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Those with a more realistic outlook are
    aware  <BR>&#62;that most users of pirate fonts would never  <BR>&#62;have paid
    for the font if they hadn&#39;t been able  <BR>&#62;to use a pirate copy.  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s also false, and I&#39;d never make such an assumption.
    <BR> <BR>If the user is of the mindset that a commercial software product is not
    worthy of payment &#40;and it&#39;s known that the manufacturer expects the user
    to make payment is the user keeps it&#41;, then the user should not have the product
    in their possession. <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;Zero piracy would make  <BR>&#62;some
    difference to industry revenue, but not  <BR>&#62;much.  <BR> <BR> <BR>Not true.
    It&#39;s an ongoing problem that has been with us since 1986 in the commercial
    world. That lost revenue for every year since 1986, is indeed significant. <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;The largest difference would be the  <BR>&#62;increase in usage
    of freeware and software-bundled fonts. <BR> <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think that one
    has anything to do with the other.  <BR> <BR>There will always be marketers who
    seek to prop up application software with fonts or clip art, though. &#40;And
    there will always be graphic designers unfamiliar enough with the nature of competition
    to blindly rely on them.&#41; <BR> <BR>There will always be freeware fonts. And
    that&#39;s fine&#42;. &#40;&#42;With the caveats already discussed.&#41; <BR>
    <BR> <BR>&#62;Since when was respect for property a basic human expectation? <BR>
    <BR> <BR>Well, why not? I think it is.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m a human being. I can
    define something for myself as my property. My expectation is that you will not
    try to take my property. I&#39;m naturally surprised when you do. Sounds basic
    to me. <BR> <BR> <BR>Why argue &#42;&#42;for&#42;&#42; piracy? <BR> <BR>Joe <BR>
    <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-29 12:20:56'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: I&#39;m not arguing <i>for</i> piracy, I&#39;m asking for realism <BR> <BR>What
    I&#39;m saying is that if you eliminated piracy, then people who use pirated fonts
    would have options open to them, other than to buy the fonts they previously used
    for free. <BR>I&#39;m also arguing that in many cases, they would take one of
    those options rather than pay for a font. <BR>I&#39;m therefore also saying that
    its false that &#34;every pirate copy has indeed cost the industry some tangible,
    definable cost&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;I&#39;m a human being. I can define something
    for myself as my property. My expectation is that you will not try to take my
    property. I&#39;m naturally surprised when you do. Sounds basic to me.  <BR> <BR>My
    point is that property is a cultural phenomena, defined, not by you or me, but
    by people with...oh yeah, that&#39;s it...lots of property. Its not part of the
    human condition, although its often presented that way. <BR>&#40;Notice, for example,
    in the Americas, how European&#39;s stole everything in sight first, made stealing
    illegal second, built a society based on the right to defend your property from
    theives third&#41;.
  created: '2003-07-29 14:34:20'
- author:
    name: porky
    picture: 110491
  body: I believe it is what Daniel Quinn calls &#34;Mother Culture&#34; in his books,
    Steve. Cultural &#34;norms&#34; so engrained that may not be questioned, and to
    do so will be met with extreme opposition. <BR> <BR>Sadly, the western world works
    to those cultural norms and there is little point arguing the toss with people
    who cannot &#40;or more accurately, will not&#41; see another way of working or
    thinking. Those who have an interest in maintaining their own philosophies will
    of course spin figures to suit their own ends &#40;pretending that, if only there
    were a magic way to prevent piracy, all the pirates would go out and buy the fonts.
    Ha, right!&#41;, and defend their standpoint vigorously. <BR> <BR>Far better,
    I think, to put your philosophies into practice. Work on opensource or freeware
    lines and prove to people that there is room for more than one philosophical standpoint
    on property. Create a typeface of worth and use that will stand the test of time,
    and give it away, or dare to think of alternative licensing schemes. <BR> <BR>Teach
    by example, by doing what you believe in. Prove that other methods can work too.
    <BR> <BR>And Hrant... I owe you a beer for saving me the trouble of typing ;&#41;
  created: '2003-07-29 15:45:14'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: David, <BR> <BR>I think you&#39;re right on just about all those points, especially
    that instead of arguing the toss we should be doing something positive. I&#39;ve
    got something in mind on that front as soon as work/kids/study/cricket etc give
    me a chance to get round to it...watch this space <BR> <BR>During the meanwhilst...
    <BR>&#62;&#62;dare to think of alternative licensing schemes.  <BR> <BR>Do you
    know of any alternative licensing schemes for fonts? <BR>I know there are some
    for software, but I&#39;ve not noticed font foundries being particularly creative
    in this respect - even with their giveaways. <BR> <BR>There used to be &#40;maybe
    still is&#41; a basic web editor called Arachnophilia. <BR>This was marketed as
    careware - very definitely not freeware, because you have no right to use it if
    you don&#39;t pay for it, but careware because the price of the software is that
    you don&#39;t complain about anything for a whole hour. Once you&#39;ve done that,
    then you can use the software.
  created: '2003-07-29 16:00:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#60;em&#62;I don&#39;t at all mean to be smug, but, how exactly do you know
    that?&#60;/em&#62; <BR> <BR>&#39;Cause I know people &#40;sometimes myself&#41;
    that have used software, fonts, movies, music, etc. that they wouldn&#39;t have
    purchased anyways. <BR> <BR>BTW, I work for a software company as well, and understand
    the problem. However, not every piece of pirated intellectual property is a lost
    sale. Some are. Some aren&#39;t. Some actually lead to sales.  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m
    not &#42;for&#42; pirating. It&#39;s illegal, and not a good thing. I&#39;m just
    not for the way companies &#40;in general&#41; make obnoxious claims as to how
    much they are loosing to piracy.  <BR> <BR>&#60;em&#62;If you&#39;re privy to
    some authenticated survey document that reveals inflation of survey results, I&#39;d
    love to see it. &#60;/em&#62; <BR> <BR>Like I said, I can only &#42;prove&#42;
    first hand experiences with it. That said, I don&#39;t think the intellectual
    property owners can prove the losses, either. It&#39;s a pretty muddy area. <BR>
    <BR>Listen, I appreciate your stand on Pirating. You are not alone.  <BR> <BR>&#60;em&#62;The
    informative commercial before &#39;Spy Kids 3-D&#39; last weekend was very good.&#60;/em&#62;
    <BR> <BR>It was bullshit. Kids trading a few badly ripped movies on the internet
    is not a devastating blow to the movie industry. What is bad is me having to sit
    through that sob-story ad &#40;hey...how about cutting the lead&#39;s salary a
    bit!?&#41; then 3 commercials, then TWENTY MINTUES of previews, and then 1 1/2
    hour of crappy film making &#40;Johnny English&#41;.  <BR> <BR>OK, that rant had
    little to do with type, but I had to get it out of my system. <BR> <BR>Anyways,
    a good movie is a good moview. People will go see it and/or buy the DVD if they
    like it. Those pirating it probably aren&#39;t willing to fork over the $8 to
    see it in the theater anyways. <BR> <BR>The current problem with inellectual property
    owners and distributors is their complete lack of trust in their own consumers.
    You can&#39;t win piracy. It&#39;ll never go away. So live with it, and respect
    and cultivate the consumer that appreciates the wares you are providing. All IMHO,
    of course. <BR> <BR>Off topic: <BR> <BR>&#60;em&#62;But what you see going on
    with the RIAA?&#60;/em&#62; <BR> <BR>I see the RIAA somehow convincing our legal
    system that 14 year old Cindy sharing a copy of a Brittney Spears song is somehow
    damaging the industry in the realm of $100,000 while at the same time somehow
    convincing the judge that their decade of price fixing was only damaging the consumer
    a total of $15. It completely boggles the mind how the RIAA is working right now
    and what they are getting away with. Gotta agree with Hrant. <BR> <BR>&#60;em&#62;I&#39;ve
    never gotten the impression that there has been any effort to inflate piracy figures.&#60;/em&#62;
    <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not the number of pirates that is wildly incorrect--it is assuming
    that every single pirated piece of property was a lost sale. There is simply no
    way to make that correlation. Your example of raided design firms does nothing
    to in fer that the design firm would have boughted the fonts in the first place
    &#40;though it can probably be easily infered with hindsight, they would have.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>But, anyways, you have your POV on the issue and others have a different
    one. There probably isn&#39;t much use convincing each side. ;o&#41;'
  created: '2003-07-29 16:00:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: OK, I&#39;m confused. The posting field clearly says ENABLE HTML CODE is checked.
    Yet, obviously, my HTML isn&#39;t being rendered. What am I doing wrong?
  created: '2003-07-29 16:02:10'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: steve paxton said <BR> <BR>&#62;What I&#39;m saying is that if you eliminated
    piracy, <BR>&#62;then people who use pirated fonts would have <BR>&#62;options
    open to them, other than to buy the fonts <BR>&#62;they previously used for free.
    <BR> <BR>They have those options open to them now.  <BR> <BR>The market is flooded
    with fonts bundled with applications and has been since 1988 or so, as I recall.
    <BR> <BR>First of all, I have a very hard time believing there are people who
    get themselves to the point in their experience level where they simply collect
    professional, for-retail fonts and never actually use them commercially. But if
    there are such people, then somehow they need to get the message &#40;perhaps
    through a collecting organization of some kind&#41; that they should restrict
    their collecting to freeware that&#39;s not cloneware, until they are ready to
    buy.  <BR> <BR>The people &#40;whether &#39;collectors&#39;, or art directors,
    designers, or production people&#41; who amass commercial fonts without buying
    them do so because built-in OS fonts and application-bundled fonts are simply
    not enough. <BR> <BR>That is, the commercial non-bundled fonts are indeed more
    desirable. Otherwise, the bundled fonts certainly would suffice. <BR> <BR>&#40;And
    yes, I&#39;ve heard about those who believe it&#39;s a numbers game. Who took
    the old circa-1987 Image Club Graphics headline distortion, &#34;He with the most
    fonts wins!&#34; and grafted the mentality onto a rationale for mass piracy.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>Somehow, then, such pirates need to get their heads wrapped around the
    concept that if they need fonts beyond bundled fonts, and beyond non-clone freeware,
    that payment is expected of them. <BR> <BR>I think this group is very comfortable
    with the idea of fonts requiring large amounts of research and development time.
    <BR> <BR>Typically, companies that make comercial fonts expect that that R&amp;D
    expense will be paid for over time by the market.  <BR> <BR> <BR>&#62;&#40;Notice,
    for example, in the Americas,  <BR>&#62;how European&#39;s stole everything in
    sight  <BR>&#62;first, made stealing illegal second,  <BR>&#62;built a society
    based on the right to  <BR>&#62;defend your property from theives third&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>&#39;European&#39;s&#39; certainly are possessive, it appears. <BR> <BR>I
    think that colonial history doesn&#39;t apply to this discussion. It&#39;s intriguing,
    of course. And we&#39;re all very lucky we don&#39;t live in such barbaric times.
    <BR> <BR>But I think that not strictly focusing on the idea that modern day commercial
    for-retail fonts are commercial software &#40;since 1984, or since the advent
    of EULAs, perhaps&#41; that has always been meant to be metered and purchased,
    tends to cloud the issue. <BR> <BR>And people are already too confused about this,
    in many corners. <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-07-29 16:23:16'
- author:
    name: treacyfaces
  body: '&#39;darrel&#39; said <BR> <BR>&#62;What is bad is me having to sit through  <BR>&#62;that
    sob-story ad &#40;hey...how about cutting  <BR>&#62;the lead&#39;s salary a bit!?&#41;
    then 3 commercials, <BR>&#62;then TWENTY MINTUES of previews, and then  <BR>&#62;1
    1/2 hour of crappy film making &#40;Johnny English&#41;. <BR> <BR> <BR>Now, &#42;&#42;that&#42;&#42;
    we agree on!  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>Joe <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-07-29 16:29:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The main problem with font piracy is how easy it is to do. In the past, it
    required hard work to pirate a font. Since fonts went digital, it takes little
    more than a decision to do it. Until a solution to this basic problem is found,
    producers of fonts are entirely at the mercy of people&#39;s willingness to take
    the end user licensing agreement seriously. I have no doubt that most font piracy
    is due to shear laziness, ignorance, and apathy, not people who have a philosophical
    problem with the concept of property.
  created: '2003-07-29 16:33:29'
date: '2003-07-24 04:14:03'
title: Archive through July 29, 2003

---
