---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "Does any foundries offer licenses for embedding fonts in the e-pub format that
  isn\u2019t outrageously priced?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'd expect that many foundry licenses provide a definition of \"document
    embedding\" that would be broad enough to cover ePub.  What might catch you out
    is the \"commercial product\" clause in licenses that would prohibit the ePub
    document being charged for. \n\nEmbedding friendly licenses include Adobe, FontShop,
    and er Microsoft :-) these may be worth reviewing.\n"
  created: '2011-01-28 21:18:09'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Well, a DRM free epub is nothing more than a renamed zip archive containing,
    amongst other things, the full font files. Is that sufficent? Would free epubs
    ship with DRM?
  created: '2011-01-28 21:30:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Good point, you could certainly be caught out by EULAs that require "secure
    embedding" (although in my opinion there''s really no such thing) or that define
    document embedding as only being PDF. At the end of the day I''d be inclined to
    review EULAs and confirm your findings with foundries that appear to allow this
    form of embedding.


    Also worth noting that EPub v3 will support WOFF as well as plain TTF/OTF. WOFF
    in ePub provides the same level of protection as you would with WOFF on the web.


    Cheers, Si

    '
  created: '2011-01-28 21:51:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I was hoping some foundries would chime in, as most of them are active on
    Typophile.\r\n\r\nOn Epub3: Yes, I'm excited about that, but can't seem to find
    any information on how soon we can expect cross-platform support."
  created: '2011-01-28 22:45:57'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '>I was hoping some foundries would chime in, as most of them are active on
    Typophile.


    The foundries who know about ePub likely already charge for those rights. The
    others are probably researching right now. :-)'
  created: '2011-01-28 23:54:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Since e-pub makes use of Web standards such as XHTML and CSS, interest has
    been expressed in using WOFF in this context. Note that as with Web served typography,
    ePubs are not ''embedding'' fonts in documents: the fonts reside alongside the
    document and is linked.'
  created: '2011-01-29 00:09:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Since e-pub makes use of Web standards such as XHTML and CSS, interest has
    been expressed in using WOFF in this context. \n\nWOFF (and OpenType) support
    seems to be a requirement of the current epub 3 spec. My understanding is that
    it\u2019s a done deal?\n\n>Note that as with Web served typography, ePubs are
    not 'embedding' fonts in documents: the fonts reside alongside the document and
    is linked.\n\nDepends how you define the document. If the document is the renamed
    .zip then the fonts are embedded within it.\n"
  created: '2011-01-29 01:16:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "From the current draft of the spec...\n\n\u203A 5.2. CSS Fonts Level 3 \n\nEPUB
    Style Sheets may include all of the constructs defined in the CSS Fonts Module
    Level 3 ( [CSS3Fonts] ) specification. User Agents must support at least the following
    values for the src descriptor in @font-face rules: \"woff\", \"opentype\" . I.e.
    both WOFF and' OpenType are Core Media Types that must be supported by all Reading
    Systems. Reading Systems may optionally support SVG Fonts in CSS. \n\nhttp://code.google.com/p/epub-revision/downloads/detail?name=ebup30-20101216.zip "
  created: '2011-01-29 02:27:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Si. I wasn't sure of the status of the ePub plans re. WOFF; Vlad
    was talking with them and I couldn't remember whether a decision had been reached
    yet.\r\n\r\n<em>Depends how you define the document. If the document is the renamed
    .zip then the fonts are embedded within it.</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose that is one
    way of looking at it, but this text is from the introduction to the <a href=\"http://www.openebook.org/doc_library/informationaldocs/FontManglingSpec.html\">openbook.org
    documentation of their recommended font obfuscation mechanism</a>:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u2018Many
    commercial fonts allow embedding, but embedding a font implies making it an integral
    part of the publication, not providing the original font file along with the content.\u2019</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    think this notion of integral vs. accompanying the content is one that will fit
    with many peoples' notion of embedding."
  created: '2011-01-29 05:06:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'For sure. If the inventors of the file format/package do not believe it qualifies
    as a document file then it would be hard to argue that document embedding permissions
    (either written into the EULA or encoded in the embedding bits) could apply.


    '
  created: '2011-01-29 06:30:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">... If the inventors of the file format/package do not believe it qualifies
    as a document file then it would be hard to argue that document embedding permissions
    (either written into the EULA...\r\n\r\nNaturally. How could any working group
    do such a horrible thing as using embedding bits. And How could anyone argue that
    an e book is a document, sillies. I see that the \"garden fence\" has been mentally
    upgraded  to a \"stumbling block\". Must be dark in there."
  created: '2011-01-29 07:19:04'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Do any of the popular e-book readers actually implement any \u201Cembedded\u201D
    fonts? \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s been about a year since I did any testing. At that time,
    the only reader that I could find that supported document-specified \u201Cembedded\u201D
    fonts was the Adobe Digital Editions reader for the desktop.\r\n\r\nNone of the
    ebook-reader apps for the iDevices will recognize epub-attached fonts. (Heck,
    mobile Safari doesn\u2019t even recognize @font-face except SVG.) \r\n\r\nAs far
    as I know, none of the proprietary devices (Nook, Kindle, et al.) will present
    anything other than their own device fonts. But maybe things have evolved with
    the latest versions?\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to know if any e-readers have
    plans to support Epub document-specified/attached fonts in the near future."
  created: '2011-01-29 13:15:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I'm embedding fonts in an ePub for iBooks on iPhone/iPad at this very moment.
  created: '2011-01-29 13:31:01'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: eMbedding. Sorry:)
  created: '2011-01-29 13:31:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: OT files that is.
  created: '2011-01-29 14:01:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: If we are going to treat apps and e-books as OEM's, we're missing out on a
    huge market.
  created: '2011-01-29 14:15:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>mobile Safari doesn\u2019t even recognize @font-face except SVG</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    does now:\r\nhttp://webfonts.info/wiki/index.php?title=%40font-face_browser_support"
  created: '2011-01-29 15:06:43'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>I'm embedding fonts in an ePub for iBooks on iPhone/iPad at this very
    moment.</em>\r\n\r\nThe <em>embedding</em> part is easy, the question is will
    iBooks display the fonts?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://support.apple.com/kb/HT4059\">This
    page</a> is pretty straightforward about it:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Can I install
    and use custom fonts?\r\n\r\nNo, not at this time.</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-01-29 16:58:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@frode\r\n\r\nI'm working on a post about E-pub, which, IMHO, is useless,
    stupid, and counter-productive. And the licensing issues you're talking about
    are icing on the cake.\r\nI'm curious - why format with E-Pub? Browsers are ubiquitous
    - why not just go with HTML5?\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-01-29 17:01:41'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>why format with E-Pub? [\u2026] why not just go with HTML?</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    always wondered the same."
  created: '2011-01-29 17:12:23'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I'm testing them on iPad, iPhone, Kindle, ADE and Sony E-reader (etc.), so
    I know it works Jens. So far, Kindle is the only one that defaults to device fonts.\r\n\r\nWhy
    .epub? The format is really cumbersome, but authors demand DRM and editors follow
    the trends in publishing. A HTML book can't be, DRM'd, sold via the usual channels
    or read offline unless it's packed in an app - or can it? Even so, the font licensing
    issue* is still the same."
  created: '2011-01-29 18:41:50'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Frode, are you using any hacks or tricks to make the fonts work in iBooks
    on the iPhone? I have tried without success. I'd be grateful for any hints.
  created: '2011-01-29 21:25:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I'm working on a post about E-pub, which, IMHO, is useless, stupid, and
    counter-productive.\n\nUnlike your other posts? :-) \n\n"
  created: '2011-01-29 21:36:46'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Jens: iBooks overrides all the commonly used tags. Try for example a cite
    inside your p\u2019s, and make sure you reset any default styling it adds. "
  created: '2011-01-29 22:03:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I don\u2019t know if I\u2019m the only one thinking in these directions,
    but websites, apps and e-books are the layman\u2019s publishing platforms much
    more so than the professionals. With OEM-ish licensing and stiff prices we\u2019re
    killing a potential market. The @font-face licenses that differentiate between
    small scale and big scale users are, IMHO, those that serve customers best while
    type designers actually earn money. I mean, look at the apps available today.
    The only ones that can afford professional type are the big league stuff."
  created: '2011-01-29 22:20:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@sii\r\n\r\nOooooh, ouch. I begged for that one. We should take this show
    on the road!\r\n\r\n@frode frank\r\n<em>\"The only ones that can afford professional
    type are the big league stuff.\"</em>\r\n\r\nWhat, precisely, would you suggest?
    (Seriously.) What price point do you think the bulk of potential customers are
    willing to pay? \r\n\r\nRich\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-30 14:37:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>With OEM-ish licensing and stiff prices we\u2019re killing a potential
    market\u2026The only ones that can afford professional type are the big league
    stuff.</cite>\r\n\r\nI suspect the high price for E-pub embedding is due to the
    high cost of licensing font for use in iPad magazines apps. Magazine publishers
    are paying a <em>lot</em> of money to license fonts on a per-app, per-font basis.
    E-pub embedding licenses at a cost comparable to a web or desktop font licenses
    might interfere with the iPad app gravy train. "
  created: '2011-01-30 17:19:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'But James, THIS is the issue: The prices are forcing the regular Joe to use
    free fonts or bitmap images, all the while Fontfeed complains about the lack of
    @font-face use in iPad magazines.'
  created: '2011-01-30 19:55:50'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The prices are forcing the regular Joe to use free fonts or bitmap
    images\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess the regular Joes should start looking for investors."
  created: '2011-01-30 20:36:38'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Or just don\u2019t use fonts that don\u2019t allow electronic document embedding.
    That seems like a rather good option."
  created: '2011-01-30 21:46:52'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'That is so defensive. '
  created: '2011-01-30 22:27:53'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   E-pub, which, IMHO, is useless, stupid, and counter-productive.\r\n\r\nwell,
    what else would you expect from the corporate publishers?\r\nlook at the members
    of i.d.p.f., which created the .epub format.\r\n(i remember their acronym as short
    for \"i design poor formats.\")\r\n\r\nthe e-book revolution is making their business-model
    extinct,\r\nas that model relies on managing the scarcity of p-books, so\r\nthe
    .epub \"standard\" is one of their attempts to _stifle_change._\r\n\r\nit's worth
    pointing out that .epub evolved from the o.e.b. format,\r\nalso maintained by
    i.d.p.f., which became the \"standard\" back at\r\nthe end of the 1990s, and the
    sabotage attempt _did_ work then.\r\n\r\nthanks to the kindle, however, which
    uses another format (.mobi),\r\n.epub's shortcomings won't be able to sideline
    e-books any more.\r\n\r\nwhich is not to say that the corporate publishers have
    given up...\r\nto this very day, for instance, they've still neglected to ever
    create\r\n\"reference implementations\" for either an .epub authoring-tool or\r\nan
    .epub viewer-program.  this means that other companies have\r\nhad to start from
    scratch to build their viewer-programs, and --\r\nas anyone familiar with such
    a situation could readily tell you --\r\nthe result is a bunch of apps badly inconsistent
    with the \"standard\"\r\n_and_ inconsistent with each other in terms of their
    inconsistencies.\r\n\r\nwhich means the e-book arena is now re-experiencing the
    awful\r\nnightmare of \"browser inconsistencies\" that plagued us in the past.\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  Browsers are ubiquitous - why not just go with HTML5?\r\n\r\nwell, first of
    all, browsers make very bad e-book viewer-programs.\r\n\r\naside from that, html5
    would be ok, if you're starting from scratch.\r\nbut since i.d.p.f. doesn't really
    want stuff to work, i'm guessing that\r\nthey will choose instead to continue
    along their present path, and\r\ntry to continue to support their legacy format
    which has served their\r\n(ulterior) motives so fine all along the line.  or,
    to put it another way:\r\n\r\nif you like that it's broke, and even broke it on
    purpose, why fix it?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 00:13:55'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "by the way, adobe spokesperson, i would love to have you step into this...\r\n\r\ni
    would _love_ it.  so please, step right up.  i dare you.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 00:16:26'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thanks bb, I know you've kept very much up and been close to all the developments
    (or non-developments, really) of EPub and I'll be quoting you.\r\n\r\nMy attitude
    summed up in this <a href=\"http://www.alistapart.com/comments/a-simpler-page/P10/#13\">rant
    on AListApart</a>.\r\n\r\nBut I'll be fleshing it out a bit on RW. Especially
    the part about the consistent inconsistencies, like browsers circa 2003.\r\n\r\nRich"
  created: '2011-02-01 06:49:46'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   Thanks bb, I know you've kept very much up\r\n\r\nthe
    only thing i think i should have added is that\r\nmicrosoft was the big tech partner
    back in 1998,\r\nwhereas it's adobe here in the 2007-on period...\r\n\r\nso, of
    course, before the ink was dry on o.e.b.,\r\nmicrosoft came out with their format
    (.lit) which\r\nput  the open format in a proprietary wrapper...\r\n\r\nthe i.d.p.f.,
    which thought that _it_ was the one\r\nwho'd been in charge of the thing, realized
    that\r\nmicrosoft was now in a position to extract a toll\r\nfrom all of the i.d.p.f.
    members who wanted to\r\nuse this new format, so the i.d.p.f. flipped out...\r\nthey
    _wanted_ sabotage, but they wanted it to\r\nwork in their favor, not _against_
    them, and\r\nthey realized that they had fallen victim to the\r\nmicrosoft pattern
    of embrace/extend/extinguish.\r\n\r\nso the corporate publishing houses just shelved\r\ntheir
    plans for o.e.b., and electronic-books, which\r\nis what they wanted to do anyway,
    except that they\r\nhad learned to be skeptical of any tech partners...\r\n\r\nhowever,
    by 2005 or so, these corporate houses\r\nwere becoming very afraid of amazon's
    power...\r\nthey needed a counter, and in stepped adobe...\r\n\r\nadobe had been
    disdainful of the o.e.b. effort,\r\npartly because microsoft was so heavily involved,\r\nbut
    also because adobe was always pushing .pdf.\r\n\r\nadobe finally realized, though,
    that a fixed-page\r\nformat simply wasn't going to work in a world\r\nwhere screens
    came in all different sizes, so\r\nthey first tried to modify .pdf so it'd do
    reflow.\r\nthe result was the \"tagged\" .pdf. if you've never\r\nheard of one,
    don't feel bad, because they never\r\nreally took off.  so adobe knew it had to
    change.\r\n\r\nadobe also knew that the corporate publishers\r\n_desperately_
    wanted d.r.m., so that path was\r\nthe plan of attack that adobe chose to utilize...\r\n\r\nof
    course, the corporate houses were smarter now\r\nand they _expected_ that adobe
    was going to want\r\na piece of the pie as well, but they were so afraid\r\nof
    amazon that they were willing to give it up now.\r\n\r\nthe thing is, with amazon's
    d.r.m. attached to it,\r\n.epub ceases to be an \"open\" standard any more,\r\nbecause
    only the reader-programs that have paid\r\na fee to adobe are allowed to access
    adobe files...\r\n\r\nthere are so many ways to kill \"an open standard\".\r\n\r\n\r\n>
    \  My attitude summed up in this rant on AListApart.\r\n>   But I'll be fleshing
    it out a bit on RW. \r\n>   Especially the part about \r\n>   the consistent inconsistencies,
    \r\n>   like browsers circa 2003.\r\n\r\nit would be nice if the inconsistencies
    were\r\nconsistent.  but we're not even _that_ lucky.\r\n\r\nhere's a woman who
    has explored the many\r\nways in which .epub viewer-apps diverge:\r\n>   http://www.pigsgourdsandwikis.com/\r\n\r\nin
    recent months, it looks like she's decided\r\nto focus exclusively on the ipad's
    viewer-app,\r\nand has given up on all of the other ones...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-01 23:31:41'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "<em>\"it looks like she's decided\r\nto focus exclusively on the ipad's viewer-app\"</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    so all the inner city kids with iPads at six hundred bucks a pop can learn to
    read.\r\n(That's Liz Castro's site - for some reason I've been encountering her
    name quite a bit over the last month or so.)\r\n\r\nThanks for the play by play.\r\n\r\nAny
    ideas on where Adobe AIR might fit in, if at all?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-02 23:51:07'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "richard said:\r\n>   Thanks for the play by play.\r\n\r\nsorry, didn't mean
    to get it on your shoe.\r\n\r\nbut that _is_ what vomit do...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   for
    some reason I've been encountering her name \r\n>   quite a bit over the last
    month or so.\r\n\r\nthat's probably because she's the only person who was\r\nmotivated
    to explore all of these inconsistencies, and \r\n_her_ motivation was writing
    a book to explain 'em...\r\n\r\n\r\n>   Any ideas on where Adobe AIR might fit
    in, if at all?\r\n\r\njust like everything else from adobe \"fits in\" these days:\r\nit's
    a bad joke.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-03 08:48:12'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "oh yeah, i just thought of something else about .epub...\r\n\r\nfirst, this
    \"standard\" is being choked by the early versions.\r\n\r\na.d.e. (\"adobe digital
    editions\") is the viewer-program\r\nthat was adobe's entry into the .epub arena.\r\n\r\nit
    had to run on deficient hardware, i readily acknowledge,\r\nhandicapping it badly,
    but it is still an awful piece of crap...\r\n\r\nand i do mean awful, and i do
    mean crap.\r\n\r\n(the good news is that it updates itself automatically...\r\nthe
    bad news is that it seems to update itself constantly.\r\nthe ugly news is that,
    despite updates, it never improves.\r\ni suspect the updates are just to plug
    the security holes.)\r\n\r\none of the worst things about this early version is
    that\r\nit can't handle more than 300k of text without choking.\r\n\r\n300k is
    not a lot of text.  (the king james bible is 2 megs.)\r\n\r\nso people creating
    .epub files have to chop up their book\r\ninto bite-sized morsels so this piece
    of crap can handle it.\r\nbecause the old machines cannot update their old version.\r\n\r\nso,
    just like web developers still have to work around ie6,\r\n.epub creators will
    have to bear this burden for a long time,\r\neven though most e-reader machines
    have better chips now.\r\n(the market is still too small to be writing off any
    customers.)\r\n\r\nas if this legacy crap wasn't bad enough, the technocrats who\r\nmake
    their living off .epub are already developing a new .epub3.\r\nbecause, you know,
    they must perpetuate their making-a-living.\r\n\r\nso even though the world doesn't
    have a decent implementation\r\nof an .epub viewer-program at _this_ time (over
    a decade after the\r\nformat first become adopted by the corporate publishing
    industry),\r\nwe will soon be witness to a whole new crop of \"standard features\"\r\nwhich
    will also be implemented inconsistently.  aren't we so lucky?\r\n\r\nmeanwhile,
    the world of paper-books is crumbling all around us...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-04 10:31:12'
- author:
    name: Caramelized
    picture: 124201
  body: "I have been dealing with this issue, too. We are developing a new platform
    for digital cookbooks and for us the ability to have well designed pages is critical.
    I've been talking with various foundries and I've been getting very different
    messages. So far, we have two foundries which are offering to provide us a package
    of 6000+ fonts for an annual license of a big over $12,000. \r\n\r\nOur approach
    is to build the pages in HTML5 and use @fontface to integrate the fonts. When
    someone purchases a cookbook from us they would get the HTML5 files and fonts
    loaded from our server onto their iPad in a .zip file. So far only Hoefler & Frere-Jones
    has categorically refused to license for this type of deployment. We happen to
    have one author who uses their Knockout typeface. So, we need to find a suitable
    substitute. That isn't great news. If we were to embed the font in the app itself,
    then they would allow that for an $800 annual fee.\r\n\r\nWe need a solution that
    allows authors/designers/publishers to create digital books using the typefaces
    that we use for print without any additional fees. For many books it would be
    prohibitive to have an additional $800 annually tacked on to the costs of the
    digital publication. I don't think anyone would have a problem with some security
    around embedded fonts in HTML or ePub3 documents. But, the current solution won't
    work long-term. Books are going digital and a dramatic increases in costs for
    typefaces can't be supported financially in the long-term."
  created: '2012-02-06 20:09:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Build a list of approved fonts (ones that don't have\r\ndraconian licensing
    restrictions) that your authors\r\nshould stick to. For existing works that rely
    on fonts\r\nwith prohibitive conditions, find suitable substitutes\r\nand convert
    to those.\r\n\r\nYou might consider hiring a consultant well-versed\r\nin font
    licenses as well as font style matching. One\r\nsuch person to consider would
    be Stephen Coles,\r\nco-founder and editor of Typographica.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-06 20:44:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "But those won\u2019t work off line right? I\u2019d like to start this discussion
    all over again. There should be a consensus, and <em>it</em> should take into
    consideration both small and big actors while providing income for type designer
    and a reasonable protection against pirating. When WOFF support is here, cross
    platform and cross browser, hopefully licensing fees will sort itself out."
  created: '2012-02-06 20:49:12'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Books are going digital and a dramatic increase in costs for\r\n>typefaces
    can't be supported financially in the long-term.\r\n\r\nOf course, it's obvious.
    Except to the folks who sell typefaces. When God wants to be unkind he makes you
    a part of the copyright industry and sends fairy-godmothers like Microsoft and
    Adobe to watch over you.\r\n\r\n>income for type designer and a reasonable protection
    against pirating\r\n\r\nThere is a simple solution to this. It flows from the
    fact that very, very few fonts made for graphics will also work well in browsers
    without <strong>adaptation for the purpose</strong>. (Epub rendering engines are
    browser engines. I don't know of any exceptions or why anyone would want to deviate
    and re-invent the wheel. Amazon has flat-out announced that HTML5 will be it's
    publishing language going forward.)\r\n\r\nWhat foundries should be licensing
    for this work are their fonts post-processed and re-tasked for the web.\r\nGot
    OTFs with a million kerning pairs and advanced OT features guaranteed to send
    a tickle up your leg? Great, keep selling them. (Yeah, I know, <em>licensing</em>
    them.) But please, keep them off the web because they don't belong there.\r\nInstead,
    toss the fracking kerning pairs out the window ('cause browser support stinks
    and CSS can handle the kerning where it's absolutely necessary, anyway) and license
    a font that's -\r\n&emsp;&bull;&ensp;sub-setted with web publishing in mind\r\n&emsp;&bull;&ensp;converted
    to TTF - the format with the broadest support and, in Windows rendering envionments,
    a necessity\r\n&emsp;&bull;&ensp;tweaked with adequate TrueType hinting, normalized
    vertical metrics, scaling, whatever is necessary - for web publishing. (Epub being
    a subset of web publishing. Is iPad going to be the ONLY platform for you? I don't
    think so.)\r\n\r\nThe idea that fonts created for graphic design work can be licensed
    for the web and/or epub AS IS and make a customer happy is delusional. As is the
    idea that there is a market for those very same fonts bundled in an epub wrapper
    and/or posted on a web server. Anyone who designs for the web, or it's cousin
    e-pub, are finding this out now, bit by bit. It's an astounding situation, really.
    Talk about elephants in the room, wow.\r\n\r\nBut once you realize that those
    fonts can fork into two distinct products - one font, the \"original\", for print
    as is, and a post-processed version, the \"web font\", for e-publishing <em>there
    is no problem</em>.\r\nWhat you've exposed to \"piracy\" is a low-cost spin-off.
    And a spin-off <em>that works better for the customer's purpose</em>.\r\n\r\nThis
    is one thing  <a href=\"http://readableweb.com/rb/rbinfo/rbexplained.htm\">I've
    been spending a lot of time working on</a> for the past year and I'm about to
    hang a shingle - offering a service that takes fonts, as is, and adapts them at
    a very reasonable cost, for e-publishing.\r\n\r\n>We happen to have one author
    who uses their Knockout typeface.\r\n>So, we need to find a suitable substitute.\r\n\r\nPlease
    contact me, we can help with this.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.facebook.com/richard.fink\">Richard
    Fink</a>\r\nBlog: <a href=\"http://readableweb.com\">Readable Web</a>\r\nFont
    Director: <a href=\"http://kernest.com\">Kernest/Konstellations</a>"
  created: '2012-02-07 14:18:09'
date: '2011-01-28 20:05:10'
title: E-pub licenses

---
