---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "Went to see Oscar front-runner <em>The King\u2019s Speech</em>.\r\nDisappointed
  the intertitle/credit fonts were hopelessly wrong.\r\nI mean, what bigger no-brainer
  could there be than \"English sans serif, 1930s\"? \u2014 and they go with\u2026
  Futura."
comments:
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: At least the writing (content) and acting was good.
  created: '2011-01-29 20:17:02'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: Well he did have German lineage :)
  created: '2011-01-29 21:22:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Johnston's third cousin from Hamburg
  created: '2011-01-29 23:28:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Hopefully, if it was \"English sans-serif, 1920s\", they would know enough
    to use the appropriate cliche... Kabel.\r\n\r\nUnless by \"English\" you mean
    of English origin, not simply a Roman-alphabet typeface, which can be used for
    printing English. In that case, I suppose you are rooting for Gill Sans."
  created: '2011-01-30 02:05:40'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "penn said:\r\n>   At least the writing (content) and acting was good.\r\n\r\nwho
    let you onto typophile?\r\n\r\ndon't you know that, to be in good stead here,\r\nyou
    _must_ judge films by their typefaces?\r\n\r\nok, you can have one more chance,
    but don't let this\r\nhappen again, not if you know what's good for you...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 00:19:30'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/renner0_5408.jpeg]\r\n\r\nYou were expecting
    Mr. Gill?"
  created: '2011-01-31 02:13:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was indeed expecting Mr Gill.\r\nHowever, the German magazine <em>Signal</em>
    occasionally used Gill Sans (the modified European version) during WWII, so WTF.\r\n\r\nIt
    always strikes me as strange that different aspects of the mise-en-sc\xE8ne in
    a film can vary so much in authenticity.\r\nCostume, make-up and hair styles,
    set decoration, and music (often patently anachronistic), as well as typography.\r\nI
    wasn't totally convinced by the accent of Rush and Firth, which seemed a little
    too modern (i.e. 50 years after), and Firth not quite aristocratic enough. Bonham-Carter
    was spot on though, very plummy."
  created: '2011-01-31 05:42:58'
- author:
    name: penn
    picture: 115502
  body: 'He really does have trouble with those ''p''s: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WF8q45vwf-0&feature=player_embedded'
  created: '2011-01-31 09:52:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>It always strikes me as strange that different aspects of the mise-en-sc\xE8ne
    in a film can vary so much in authenticity.</em>\r\n\r\nDefinitely.\r\nConsistent
    and knowing departures from the period (such as the soundtrack to Marie Antoinette)
    are a filmic device, but anachronisms ruin it for me.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 14:38:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I'm not sure the titles should be subject to the same rules as the film environment
    though\u2026"
  created: '2011-01-31 14:48:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026anachronisms ruin it for me.</em>\r\n\r\nMe too. I don't mind an
    anachronism if it's pointed (Aphex Twin in <em>Marie Antoinette</em> was its one
    redeeming feature, IMO!), but when it appears to be done through ignorance or
    mere favoritism, not so hot."
  created: '2011-01-31 15:02:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I'm not sure the titles should be subject to the same rules as the film
    environment though\u2026\"\r\n\r\nQuite right.  What would the titles be for prehistoric
    films?  or even futuristic films? or even films made in countries with scripts
    different than the viewer's own?"
  created: '2011-01-31 15:02:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Papyrus, of course.
  created: '2011-01-31 16:22:40'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: I spotted a promotional ad for the film in the newspaper today - where of
    course they used... [img:sites/default/files/old-images/king-s-speech-poster-1_4989.jpg]
  created: '2011-01-31 17:34:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Papyrus, of course.\"\r\n\r\nLOL! \r\nI would have bet on Trajan :-)"
  created: '2011-01-31 18:37:28'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Period movies ALWAYS contain anachronistic elements, eg the actors\u2026
    You can always tell in which decade of the last century a movie about the Scarlett
    Pimpernel, or WW2, or the Crimean War, etc. was shot. Look at Mr Firth in the
    poster: he has a typical 2010-visage! \r\n\r\nAnd even the sky in the background
    looks very contemporary, due to the air pollution that is totally different from
    the one in the pre-war days when coal was the main fuel used for heating and cooking."
  created: '2011-01-31 18:40:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "More Brylcreem! Firth's hair wasn't slicked down enough:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/King_george-VI_4981.jpg]"
  created: '2011-01-31 19:02:09'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "\"I'm not sure the titles should be subject to the same rules as the film
    environment though\u2026\"\r\n\r\n<em>Quite right. What would the titles be for
    prehistoric films? or even futuristic films? or even films made in countries with
    scripts different than the viewer's own?</em>\r\n\r\nTherein lies the problem!
    Have to be true to the context of the audience in this sense."
  created: '2011-01-31 19:07:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Overall I thought it to be quiet a good film.\r\nI felt Berty's sense of
    dread and enjoyed the sense of him overcoming it."
  created: '2011-01-31 19:10:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\nOh, and Happy Birthday< Russell!"
  created: '2011-01-31 19:58:55'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Oh, p-p-p-p-pu-please.\r\nGill Sans? \r\nHasn't that family seen enough scandal?\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n@
    Chris & Nick <cite> \"Papyrus, of course.\"\r\n...\r\n\"I would have bet on Trajan\"
    </cite>\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nThat choice would depend on if  the movie is from the
    point of view of the plucky underdogs or or heartless overlords\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 19:59:30'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Thanks, sir.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-31 20:00:01'
- author:
    name: Kristians Sics
    picture: 118465
  body: "<cite>what bigger no-brainer could there be than \"English sans serif, 1930s\"?
    \u2014 and they go with\u2026 Futura.</cite>\r\nWe are all incurably mad. I was
    thinking exactly about that."
  created: '2011-02-01 00:16:07'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "http://www.guardian.co.uk/film/2011/jan/31/the-kings-speech-gross-falsification#start-of-comments\r\n\r\nChristopher
    Hitchens says it best here.\r\n\r\n<em>The King's Speech is an extremely well-made
    film with a seductive human-interest plot, very prettily calculated to appeal
    to the smarter filmgoer. But it perpetrates a gross falsification of history.</em>"
  created: '2011-02-01 00:31:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I could defend the film by advancing the theory that Edward VIII was actually
    a British spy who managed to advance the Allied cause against Hitler, or defend
    Churchill by noting that Gandhi's pressure for independence for India an a rapid
    timetable contributed to the bloodshed which the forces seeking partition for
    Pakistan unleashed.\r\n\r\nHowever, I've brought already far too much politics
    into this forum, and these would be extreme longshots, so I think I'll leave Christopher
    Hitchens alone. Churchill, at least, has a reputation that is safe from any naysayers.\r\n\r\nAs
    for Eric Gill: while Gill Sans would have been the appropriate choice, given recent
    revelations about his personal life, and the increasing awareness of the rights
    of women and the needs of the victims of sexual violence, and the dependence of
    a movie studio on its image and public goodwill... avoiding his typeface was only
    to be expected."
  created: '2011-02-01 01:24:51'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Nick:\r\nYou went to see an <cite>Oscar front-runner</cite> and you are disappointed
    by the lack of (historical or any kind of) accuracy?\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026anachronisms
    ruin it for me.</cite>\r\nIsn\u2019t told history <cite>per se</cite> anachronistic?\r\nAnd
    how much historical accuracy should one expect from a film that, above all, has
    to be financially profitable and of a certain entertaining value?"
  created: '2011-02-01 04:37:08'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Here's a small puzzle for some of you... There weren't many buildings made
    with this monogram. This one is on a Canada Post building in Toronto and it the
    mongram probably superseded before the cement was dry.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P1012977_5326.JPG]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-01 05:21:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Oh, my, yes. Very few people passing by that would think "Edward Rex"; they
    would think "Elizabeth Regina" and just ignore the Roman numeral!
  created: '2011-02-01 14:38:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You went to see an Oscar front-runner and you are disappointed by the
    lack of (historical or any kind of) accuracy?</em>\r\n\r\nI noticed the type issue
    and duly reported it at Typophile.\r\nI enjoyed the movie, despite one or two
    shortcomings."
  created: '2011-02-01 15:08:03'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: "Thank God they didn't use Gill anything. Talk about scandal! The man was
    a pedophile in a hemp sack cloth. Yuck! \r\n\r\nAnd OK, the movie is not quite
    historically accurate per the Hitchens piece, but come on, at least the king wasn't
    George Bush. And Nick, how many kings and queens do you know whom you might compare
    to Colin Firth in the accent department? I don't know any myself."
  created: '2011-02-01 18:37:02'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: "\"Thank God they didn't use Gill anything. Talk about scandal! The man was
    a pedophile in a hemp sack cloth.\"\r\n\r\nSo I guess we just throw away all of
    those great typefaces. Hell, let's burn all printed materials that feature anything
    Gill did! Let's deface all of the stonework he did! ERADICATE IT! Just face it:
    everyone has demons. While the things Gill did in his private life are shocking,
    those things are separate from his contributions to typography.\r\n\r\nEnough
    about that, though. Back to the original topic, I drive my friends nuts commenting
    on type inaccuracies in modern period pieces. I don't remember what I was watching
    but it was a low-budget kind of thing set in the 40s or 50s and they made the
    mistake of using Arial. I died a little on the inside."
  created: '2011-02-01 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "It might seem pedantic but imagine:\r\n\r\n<em>The Dam Busters</em> with
    F15s.\r\n<em>Lawrence of Arabia</em> with air conditioning units\u2026"
  created: '2011-02-01 22:41:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@thetophus:\r\n<cite>So I guess we just throw away all of those great typefaces.
    Hell, let's burn all printed materials that feature anything Gill did! Let's deface
    all of the stonework he did! ERADICATE IT!</cite>\r\n\r\nAlthough you are right
    that making Eric Gill into an unperson is not appropriate either, movie studios,
    at least in the United States, are in a difficult position. Even while they make
    their money most effectively when pandering to our baser instincts, they must
    constantly struggle to prove to the American people that, no, they really aren't
    corrupting the youth of the nation.\r\n\r\nThus, they are vulnerable to the activities
    of single-issue political organizations. Whether these organizations act on behalf
    of conservative religious denominations, the disabled, or women whose children
    have been killed by drunk drivers, or women who seek greater equality with men,
    they wield great power over vulnerable industries that are dependent on public
    goodwill to sell their products.\r\n\r\nI could mention the pentagram in the background
    that was removed from the Magic: the Gathering card \"Unholy Strength\".\r\n\r\nI
    could mention the immense controversy that surrounded the movie \"Tropic Thunder\",
    in which the moviemakers decided to have the soldiers portrayed in it use the
    word \"retard\" as a pejorative term, rather than the stronger language real-life
    soldiers might use.\r\n\r\nThen, there is the immense controversy that surrounded
    the movie \"The Passion of the Christ\", which was essentially a traditional depiction
    of the life of Christ in the manner in which emphasis is given to its components
    within the Roman Catholic faith, which ended up driving Mel Gibson to drink and
    ruin.\r\n\r\nAnd, so, if a Hollywood movie studio can find a way to avoid annoying
    one of the major pressure groups out there... they will take it."
  created: '2011-02-01 23:24:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " <em>And Nick, how many kings and queens do you know whom you might compare
    to Colin Firth in the accent department? </em>\r\n\r\nGeorge:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DAhFW_auT20\r\n\r\nColin:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zk56SwKzpwE\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I don't think Firth cuts it.\r\nHe sounds like Bluebottle (Goon Show): George
    had a certain repose, as befits a king, despite the pauses.\r\nIn fact his speech
    mannerism becomes a kind of affectation.\r\nFirth puts too much melodrama (never
    mind the music) into it, making the mannerism a debility. Too strident, too much
    variation in pitch, for one thing, too high a pitch for another. George is so
    much more relaxed, more musical and poetic in delivery than Firth's theatrical
    struggle. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBonham-Carter was excellent. Reminded me of several
    snooty upper-crust women I've known."
  created: '2011-02-02 04:38:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I was struck by the choice of Beethoven for the climactic wartime speech scene.
    Musically, it gave a building, triumphant, emotional tone to the scene (maybe
    too much), but then I recognized the music and thought, what an ironic choice.
    I almost wonder if that and the Futura were chosen purposely.
  created: '2011-02-02 15:01:00'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: (By the way, the signs above the equipment in the BBC control room were set
    in Helvetica.)
  created: '2011-02-02 15:07:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Mark Simonson:\r\n<cite>(By the way, the signs above the equipment in the
    BBC control room were set in Helvetica.)</cite>\r\n\r\nOK, <em>that's</em> an
    unacceptable anachronism. The credits can be in whatever typeface, because they're
    part of the real world, when the movie was made. The signs in the BBC control
    room, however, are part of the world within the movie itself; for <strong>them</strong>
    to be wrong is a genuine error, not simply a failure to set or maintain the proper
    mood."
  created: '2011-02-02 16:05:23'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>(By the way, the signs above the equipment in the BBC control room were
    set in Helvetica.)</em>\r\n\r\nI noticed this too but was unsure\u2026 I told
    myself it <em>could</em> be Akzidenz!"
  created: '2011-02-02 16:48:29'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "<em>OK, that's an unacceptable anachronism. The credits can be in whatever
    typeface, because they're part of the real world, when the movie was made. The
    signs in the BBC control room, however, are part of the world within the movie
    itself; for them to be wrong is a genuine error, not simply a failure to set or
    maintain the proper mood.</em>\r\n\r\nMy position is generally the same. Diegetic
    vs non diegetic.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-02 16:52:06'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Right. Except I wouldn't go so far as calling it unacceptable (or maybe you're
    being facetious). Type nerds like us might be annoyed, but no one else will notice.
    For all I know, the shoes were completely wrong for the period.\r\n\r\nI would
    say the type used in the titles is an artistic choice, and I agree with Nick that
    Futura was not the best choice here. Could have been worse, though."
  created: '2011-02-02 16:57:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You know, it might be Twentieth Century.
  created: '2011-02-02 17:00:19'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Overall I imagine more care goes into the costume than the type. Perhaps
    one person to consult at least? People regularly request period type suggestions
    here, it can't be that hard!\r\n\r\nI was almost an extra in The King's Speech,
    perhaps I could have pointed a few things out!\r\n\r\nI maintain that I enjoyed
    watching the film though, despite all of the above."
  created: '2011-02-02 17:23:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>You know, it might be Twentieth Century.</cite>\r\n\r\nHey, 20C belongs
    to HOUSE!!"
  created: '2011-02-02 18:51:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/House-Series_4761.jpg]'
  created: '2011-02-02 19:01:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I enjoyed the film, too, and I'm not sure if I would have noticed the Helvetica
    (it went by very quickly) if I hadn't been specifically looking for errors like
    that. \r\n\r\nI actually went to the movie at the request of a reporter for The
    Telegraph. I wanted to see it anyway, but it made a nice excuse to take a break
    from FontLab. (If anyone is curious, <a href=\"http://www.telegraph.co.uk/culture/film/film-news/8285855/Oscar-nominated-film-The-Kings-Speech-littered-with-errors.html\">here's
    the article</a>.)\r\n\r\nA million times worse than the Helvetica was the fact
    that someone started talking on a cell phone just outside the theater during a
    critical scene. It was so distracting that I completely missed what was said in
    the scene. I'll take the occasional anachronism over that any day."
  created: '2011-02-02 19:02:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Diegetic vs non diegetic.</em>\r\n\r\nNot quite so categorically cut
    and dried.\r\nI await the \"Dogme\" version, made with original equipment.\r\n\r\nI
    also found the casting disconcerting, in that some characters were very much look-alikes,
    while others, such as the two leads, were not.\r\n\r\nIn general, knowing something
    of the original history, I was aware of all sorts of dialectics between the authentic
    and the interpretive. So I would fault the film for not being more consistent
    in this respect, and that is probably the producer's responsibility.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    it was a great movie and I enjoyed every minute of it.\r\nEspecially as the usual
    filmic manipulators of death, sex, and violence were completely absent. "
  created: '2011-02-02 19:19:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Finally,we got to see it!\r\nLoved the film!  There was actual acting going
    on instead of \"just another CGI effect\".  Perhaps film making is back.\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2011-02-14 18:23:02'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@NS - <cite>Especially as the usual filmic manipulators of death, sex, and
    violence were completely absent.</cite>\r\n\r\nFinally a movie that sounds interesting."
  created: '2011-02-14 21:10:39'
date: '2011-01-29 18:41:14'
title: King's Speech blows it

---
