---
author:
  name: beetrootman
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI know that OpenType fonts can be considered as software due to
  OpenType features (which as I understand are actually small scripts). But can TrueType
  and PostScript Type 1 fonts (I basically mean any font the does not have the .otf
  file extension) be considered as software?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nEdit \u2013 I have
  changed the title to cover all types of fonts, not just TrueType and Type 1."
comments:
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Da Sie Deutsch k\xF6nnen, lesen Sie hier:\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/computerprogramm.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-04 20:38:51'
- author:
    name: beetrootman
  body: "Do you have an English version?\r\nThanks"
  created: '2011-02-04 20:50:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, they're not hardware, so they must be software.\r\nThe distinction
    between program and data is another matter."
  created: '2011-02-04 20:54:40'
- author:
    name: beetrootman
  body: But are there any defining properties of font formats other than OpenType
    that make them software? I presume it must be defined somewhere since most EULAs
    call fonts software.
  created: '2011-02-04 21:29:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "As Nick already explained, every computer file can be considered \"software\".
    \r\nThe distinction between program and data is more tricky. There is no general
    answer. It depends on the single font in question. A type 1 font will usually
    just be data, but an OpenType or TrueType font might contain elaborate hinting
    or OpenType code. Manual hinting was acknowledged as computer program in court
    before. I don't know of any cases concerning OpenType feature code yet. "
  created: '2011-02-05 11:13:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Harvard Cyberlaw defines software as "the programs or other 'instructions'
    that a computer needs to perform specific tasks." In the case of a font, the specific
    task is to render letterforms of a certain design. Period.
  created: '2011-02-05 17:25:37'
- author:
    name: luc
    picture: 110507
  body: "Just a small comment, slightly off topic. In the early days of digital typography,
    Adobe had a Type 3 format. Type 3 fonts were true PostScript programs.  You could
    do crazy things like erasing files in your directory by just \"executing the font\".
    \ Making parametrized font families was easy, if you knew how to program in PostScript.
    All the things people like in OpenType today (ligatures, replacement, etc.) could
    be programmed inside a Type 3 font. \r\n\r\nI loved that format. "
  created: '2011-02-05 17:58:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "If you can kick it, it's hardware.\r\nIf you can corrupt or overwrite it,
    it's software.\r\nOtherwise, it's firmware."
  created: '2011-02-05 20:36:33'
- author:
    name: beetrootman
  body: Ok I see. So by the same definition an MP3 is software, as is a text file?
  created: '2011-02-05 22:57:14'
- author:
    name: Christoph Knoth
  body: "oldnick:\r\n<cite>Harvard Cyberlaw defines software as \"the programs or
    other 'instructions' that a computer needs to perform specific tasks.\" In the
    case of a font, the specific task is to render letterforms of a certain design.
    Period.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe specific task to render a font is done by the font renderer
    of an application that takes font data as an input. So only the combination of
    renderer and font is software. As also wikipedia defines it:\r\n\r\n<cite>Computer
    software, or just software, is a collection of computer programs <strong>and</strong>
    related data that provide the instructions telling a computer what to do and how
    to do it. (Wikipedia contributors, \"Computer software,\" Wikipedia, The Free
    Encyclopedia, http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_software&oldid=412140036
    (accessed February 5, 2011).)</cite>\r\n\r\nA font alone (if there is no opentype
    scripting or type3 involved) is only data not software. As a tire alone is not
    a bike."
  created: '2011-02-05 23:22:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>So by the same definition an MP3 is software, as is a text file?</em>\r\n\r\nAn
    MP3 file isn't human-readable on its own, so you might stretch the definition
    of software to cover it. However, your MP3 player (real or virtual) performs the
    specific task  of interpreting the data in the MP3 file. MOST text files don't
    induce your computer to perform a specific task, so they're a definite no."
  created: '2011-02-05 23:23:25'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>MOST text files don't induce your computer to perform a specific task,
    so they're a definite no.</cite>\r\n\r\nEven plain text files are just sequences
    of bytes that need to be interpreted in a certain way to be human readable."
  created: '2011-02-05 23:41:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@oldnick - MP3s aren't really interpreted, since the player always performs
    the same actions for each file: They are decompressed and then blasted to the
    sound chip.\r\n\r\n@pseudo - A text file can be thought of as software... the
    shell scripts on my Linux box are pure text, after all, as are the batch files
    on the Windows machine. I would not think of my fanfic database on its own as
    software, even though it can be (and has been) corrupted and scrozzled."
  created: '2011-02-06 17:01:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>MP3s aren't really interpreted</em>\r\n\r\nOpen an MP3 file in a text
    editor."
  created: '2011-02-06 18:13:10'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: A text editor is an interpreter.
  created: '2011-02-06 18:25:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>A text editor is an interpreter.</em>\r\n\r\nWho said it wasn't? But
    a text editor does a lousy job of interpreting MP3s..."
  created: '2011-02-06 19:23:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Hmm... you clearly interpret 'interpreter' far more widely than I do when
    it comes to computers, since I use that word only about language interpreters,
    such as PERL, Python and command processors (shells). As I see it, then, if a
    text editor is an interpreter, then so are your font editors, which would make
    fonts interpreted code, thus definitely software.\r\n\r\nAm I too hackerish for
    this site?"
  created: '2011-02-06 19:26:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Even a TrueType font contains algorithmic elements: it may contain a sequence
    of instructions to carry out hinting.\r\n\r\nIt's true that the bulk of what a
    font contains is simply data, point coordinates, which another program reads in
    order to draw the shape specified for a given glyph.\r\n\r\nBut in some cases,
    data can be licensed in the same fashion as computer programs: for example, a
    company might license you a database of names and addresses - and supply you with
    it only in an encrypted form that could be read by the program that would print
    your allowed number of mailing labels.\r\n\r\nThe important thing is that by recognizing
    fonts as software, their creators gain an additional element of legal protection.
    Even in jurisdictions where typeface designs lack legal protection, the font,
    as a specific binary sequence to be given to a computer, still enjoys full copyright
    protection. While, even where typeface designs are protected, that protection
    runs for a much shorter term, similar to that for patents.\r\n\r\nSo I don't see
    how treating fonts as software is a bad thing - it seems to me it's a very good
    thing for typeface designers."
  created: '2011-02-06 20:12:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>the bulk of what a font contains is simply data, point coordinates</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    used to be a nifty little PostScript editor named NOAH (alas, I believe it was
    16-bit) which allowed you to view (and edit, if you felt adventurous) the code
    used to render each glyph. What the human-readable information showed was not
    merely point coordinates, but also INSTRUCTIONS on how to connect them (line,
    arc, etc.), If we return to either definition of software listed above, both make
    it clear that such INSTRUCTIONS are what make a piece of code software."
  created: '2011-02-06 20:42:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the bulk of what a font contains is simply data, point coordinates\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    is indeed \"simply\" data, because it is written directly as digital media, and
    that's what makes it akin to code.\r\nIt is not data which is a measurement of
    analog objects or events, or for that matter of digital events.\r\nThe font does
    not exist outside its digital being, so it is not the kind of \"factual information
    about something\" which we normally consider data to be. It is the thing itself,
    <em>sine qua non.</em>\r\nJust as surely, a program is \"simply\" code."
  created: '2011-02-06 21:11:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Why are you asking the question? To clarify your own thoughts?
  created: '2011-02-06 21:17:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Pseudo> Ok I see. So by the same definition an MP3 is software, as is a text
    file?\r\n\r\nPseudo called my here by tweet, party because this topic is in the
    wrong place, and so I didn't see it otherwise.\r\n\r\nFonts range from pure data
    (bitmap fonts), to data and software, (hinted truetype gx fonts with opentype
    tables). So having any single definition of software covering all fonts is not
    appropriate.\r\n\r\nThen you have the US Copyright Office. These hard-working
    people, and the courts have little interest in getting clogged with the finer
    details we all know exist, and looking at an evolving situation, they assigned
    a software type to all digital outline fonts, and defined the requirements for
    font patents.\r\n\r\nWhat this means is that Harvard, Wikipedia, mp3 and text,
    or what \"the bulk of\" a font is, have nothing to do with the definition of fonts
    as software or not. It comes down instead, to where you live, how much you want
    to pick on this or that government or foundry or format, and what you're willing
    to risk."
  created: '2011-02-06 23:11:00'
- author:
    name: beetrootman
  body: "First of all I will clarify why I asked this question; I am just starting
    to design typefaces of my own, which hopefully I will sell at some point in the
    future. As a result of this I have become more and more interested in aspects
    of the type design other than just the design part, including the retail of fonts.
    I have been aware for sometime that most foundries sell fonts as \"font software\",
    but I could never understand exactly why. It seemed strange to me that they were
    calling these things software, and I presumed that most end users did not necessarily
    think of fonts as software.\r\n\r\nThe only reason I could think of (not knowing
    the technical details of fonts) as to why foundries would sell fonts as software
    was for legal reasons, and having more protection of software than just data.
    If this was the case then it seemed slightly misleading to consumers. So I asked
    the question here to see if there really was one defining factor of fonts that
    made them software.\r\n\r\nWhen I asked the question I knew that there was going
    to be a mixed response, because the definition of software is so difficult anyway.
    And as we have seen there are differences in opinion as to why fonts are software.
    I am neither against, nor for the way fonts are called software, I just think
    there should be a discussion amongst type designers about whether this is the
    correct, and best way to sell fonts.\r\n\r\nFrom the response here, it seems that
    the current way fonts are sold as software seems the best model. However, with
    the introduction of webfonts, the appearance of many new smaller foundries, piracy,
    and the long predicted end of print, I foresee that the way fonts are sold will
    probably have to change, but that is another discussion entirely.\r\n\r\nI would
    be interested to know in more detail the history of this subject; when were fonts
    first sold as software etc. Can anybody can point to some documentation?"
  created: '2011-02-07 10:30:43'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "pseudo:\r\n\r\n> <cite>I would be interested to know in more detail the history
    of this subject; when were fonts first sold as software etc. Can anybody can point
    to some documentation?</cite>\r\n\r\nI happen to have on my bookshelf many of
    the old catalogs and books of the 1980s, e.g. numerous Linotype catalogs and Compugraphic
    catalogs, and the old URW books, and I also have the old printed Adobe PostScript
    reference and cookbook manuals of the 1980s and many other similar books of the
    late 1980s and early 1990s.\r\n\r\nIf you look through these old books, you will
    find nowhere a text passage, where fonts are called \"software\" or \"computer
    programs\" etc.\r\n\r\nFor instance, in the Linotype catalog of 1985, which contained
    a description of how Linotype digitized its fonts with the URW Ikarus system,
    Linotype used the technical term \"digital font\" and described fonts are digital
    data, but Linotype never said that fonts are \"software\" or \"computer programs\".\r\n\r\nThe
    same is true for the original Adobe PostScript manuals. For instance, in the Adobe
    Reference Manual of 1985, page 62, we read this definition by John Warnock:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"font
    = set of graphic shapes that define the current typeface.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nNowhere
    the word \"software\" is used for Type 1 fonts by the Adobe managers Geschke and
    Warnock, the editors of these PostScript books.\r\n\r\nAt that time, for Adobe,
    a Type 1 font was a collection of graphic shapes or graphic outlines of characters
    (the word glyph came later), but not a computer program.\r\n\r\n(Note: An exception
    were the \"Type 3\" fonts, which were full-fledged PostScript programs as already
    stated above by Luc Devroye).\r\n\r\nWhen Adobe started to sell Type 1 fonts,
    however, the Adobe marketing department decided to cheat dimwitted font buyers
    by telling them the legal fairy tale that Type 1 fonts are \"computer programs\"
    and \"software\".\r\n\r\nA few years later, clever Adobe shysters managed to make
    Judge Ronald M. Whyte believe that Type 1 fonts are \"font software\" and \"computer
    programs\".\r\n\r\nIf Judge Whyte, who had been taken for a ride, had read the
    old Adobe PostScript manuals written by Geschke and Warnock, he would have known
    better.\r\n\r\nSee also the Typophile thread www.typophile.com/node/78027\r\n\r\nFor
    more detail visit my website www.sanskritweb.net/forgers"
  created: '2011-02-07 12:23:03'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "In the original PS Language Reference Manual, 3rd printing, May 1987 (1985-1986),
    we read on page 31 of the printed edition:\r\n\r\n\"For example, a <strong>PostScript
    font</strong> is a dictionary that...\"\r\n\r\nIn the most recent version of this
    PS Language Reference Manual, downloadable here\r\nwww.adobe.com/products/postscript/pdfs/PLRM.pdf
    we read on page 41\r\n\r\n\"For example, a <strong>PostScript font program</strong>
    contains a dictionary that...\"\r\n\r\nThis means that the Adobe marketing department
    later replaced the word <strong>\"font\"</strong> by the word <strong>\"font program\"</strong>
    in order to make dimwits believe that fonts are programs."
  created: '2011-02-07 13:02:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It seems that software \"can\" be a text file but for me, it must do more
    than just present the captured text on demand. It makes sense that there are commands
    given and resources consulted for decision on what is to be presented or executed.\r\nAn
    ascii file of just typed text, like the text of an email, can only present the
    captured text as it was with the caveat of allowing formatting changes--size,
    weight, etc..  Even formatting changes require a savvy application which \"reads\"the
    text file and allows you to select options.\r\nA typeface file is a set of captured
    data and selection system that has the intelligence to make itself usable to other
    software and hardware in many selectable ways.  It may not be totally self-enabling
    and require other players to complete the task requested (InD, MS-Word, OS, Hardware...).
    \ \r\nIf you think of a text file as a cooked dish, it only allows eating and
    saving for eating later, without outside intervention. You may then think of a
    typeface file as a smart recipe book which can call up its ingredients and allow
    the user to combine them in countless ways.  The application software is like
    the chef, who puts all the ingredients together in the way requested and presents
    them on demand.\r\nThe stove, refrigerator, utensils, etc.. are the hardware tools
    needed to do the job. The operating system is the software that allows all of
    the various players to interact with each-other in a selectable and logical way."
  created: '2011-02-07 16:09:37'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Oh, by the way, <a href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/Unicode.html">There
    Ain't No Such Thing As Plain Text</a>.
  created: '2011-02-07 16:21:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I would be interested to know in more detail the history of this subject;
    when were fonts first sold as software etc. Can anybody can point to some documentation?\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I am aware, there is not a history of SALES of font software in retail
    fonts for print. Font software is LICENSED there.And in web font \"retail\", the
    font software itself isn't usually licensed, the right to the SERVICE of font
    software is SUBSCRIBED to. There have been plenty of changes in foundry practice
    Pseudo, to accommodate the changes in the world.These changes can be dimly summarized
    as some sort of conspiratorial outrage, or one can simply understand that once
    upon a time fonts were only data and the typography was supplied by human \"programs\".
    Now, the typographers are almost all gone, but by plan and legal vision fonts
    can contain much of the software once provided by typographers, and it is copyrighted
    as software.\r\n\r\nIf you are really an interested type designer, I have now
    donated all you need to know.\r\n\r\n>This means that the Adobe marketing department
    later replaced the word \"font\" by the word \"font program\" in order to make
    dimwits believe that fonts are programs.\r\n\r\nDo you have documentation of this
    marketing department's central involvement?"
  created: '2011-02-07 17:01:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\"DTP\" history, Adobe-centric:\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Inside-Publishing-Revolution-Adobe-Story/dp/0321115643\r\n\r\nFont
    format history:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/BigThing.pdf\r\n\r\nSnapshot
    of the emergent online font business, 2002:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Writing/Cruisin.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\n@Berlow:
    <em>\u2026all you need to know.</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, stop fretting over pixel display
    and pen the True Story of What Went Down by the Man at the Center of It All, \u2014with
    lots of sex and drugs, just like Keef.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-07 19:36:39'
- author:
    name: beetrootman
  body: "Well thanks for your comments everybody. I was hoping my post would start
    a hearty discussion and it did. I would like to reflect on some of the comments
    in the thread.\r\n\r\nIf the US copyright office says fonts are software then
    this only means that under US copyright law fonts are <em>classified</em> as software.
    To me that does not necessarily mean that they <em>are</em> software. At this
    point I am really trying to understand, from a purely technological point of view,
    whether or not they are.\r\n\r\nI think it is important to make comparisons to
    mp3s, movies, even text files etc, because I would say these are the most closely
    related kind of \"business model\" there is; consumers paying money online and
    then downloading some data (which most of the time is only licensed, everything
    on iTunes and even ebooks from Amazon are only licensed not sold). By understanding
    a wider range of services we can improve the understanding of our own services.\r\n\r\nI
    do not think that type foundries are trying to trick 'dimwits' into thinking fonts
    are software. If selling fonts as software gives greater copyright protection
    then it is understandable that they would currently be licensed like this. However,
    I do think it is important that the end user is also able to understand exactly
    what (and why it is software) they are paying for.\r\n\r\nMy own personal interest
    in this matter is driven by my inquisitive nature; if I am going to be licensing
    fonts then I need to understand what exactly it is I am licensing and also the
    best way to do this. I also think that this might make in interesting thesis for
    my master's degree (yes I really am an interested type designer!)\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2011-02-07 19:41:44'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "My concern is not if fonts are software - it seems evident that they are.
    As with MP3's you can't make digital copies and sell them. However with an MP3
    usually you can't take the licensed music it contains, record your own cover of
    it, and sell that. The \"software\" has changed, but the song has not. The creator
    of the song is owed. Not so with fonts (in the US).\r\n\r\nSo.. is a font like
    a song? Now that is an interesting question with blurry edges. At first I thought
    \"it's easier to look at a song and see if it's a cover\".. but what about a sample,
    or a single borrowed line, or a chorus? I'd be curious to know how these cases
    are handled as they are more akin to font - remixing, reviving etc."
  created: '2011-02-07 21:21:39'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Randy:\r\n\r\n> So.. is a font like a song? Now that is an interesting question
    \r\n\r\nA good example is the famous song \u201EStill got the Blues\u201C (1990)
    by Gary Moore, who died two days ago on 6th February 2011.\r\n\r\nThe district
    court in Munich in Germany ruled in 2008 (LG M\xFCnchen I, 03.12.2008 - 21 O 23120/00)
    that the song \"Still got the Blues\" was a copyright infringement of the older
    German song \u201ENordrach\u201C (1974).\r\n\r\nwww.justiz.bayern.de/gericht/lg/m1/presse/archiv/2008/01717/index.php\r\n\r\nThe
    highly interesting point of this court judgment is the fact that Gary Moore committed
    copyright infringement, because the song \u201EStill got the Blues\u201C is <strong>very
    similar to, but not identical with</strong> the older song \u201ENordrach\u201C.\r\n\r\nRemember:
    Most fonts are <strong>very similar to, but not identical with</strong> other
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIf fonts were copyrightable, then most fonts were copyright infringements,
    because most fonts are very similar to, but not identical with other fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
    Munich court ruled:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"There are differences, but the similarity
    is striking.\"</strong>\r\n\r\n(\"Es sind Unterschiede vorhanden, aber die \xC4hnlichkeit
    ist so frappierend.\")\r\n\r\nwww.aufrecht.de/urteile/urheberrecht/still-got-the-blues-oder-auch-nicht-gitarrensolo-verletzt-urheberrecht-lg-muenchen-i-urteil-vom-03122008-az-21-o-2312000.html"
  created: '2011-02-08 05:49:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A song is a brief piece of recorded entertainment that can be listened to
    numerous times, and it always sounds the same. No matter how many times you listen
    to it, you will never be paid to do so.\r\n\r\nA typeface is a tool that can be
    used numerous times in man different ways forever and rarely looks the same. Being
    a tool, it can be written off as a business expense as well as charged to the
    client.  You can more than make your money back with one professional use."
  created: '2011-02-08 16:07:43'
- author:
    name: ebspoony
  body: Isn't a great deal of this legal maneuvering with copyrights and licenses
    and subscriptions of "font software" also an outgrowth of the Eltra decision and
    ensuing copyright law since (ie, the lack of protection for actual designs of
    type)?
  created: '2011-02-08 19:07:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Luke will have to ask himself if being embroiled in a tedious discussion
    on legal-eeze terminology, with no possible conclusion, is worth the effort?  Perhaps
    he will decide that his time is better spent just designing type and bringing
    it to market?\r\n\r\nIf you want to be a type designer, just do it and leave all
    of that other stuff to lawyers.  Trust me, there is no equitable \"understanding\"
    to be achieved and there is ALWAYS someone to argue about it ad nauseam.\r\n\r\nIf
    you need a good lawyer, I can give you a recommendation."
  created: '2011-02-08 20:56:25'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Software shmoftware. You need an electronic device with a screen to read it,
    right?
  created: '2011-02-09 01:29:57'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "ebspoony:\r\n\r\n> Isn't a great deal of this legal maneuvering with copyrights
    and licenses and subscriptions of \"font software\" also an outgrowth of the Eltra
    decision and ensuing copyright law since (ie, the lack of protection for actual
    designs of type)?\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nsee www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/eltra.pdf"
  created: '2011-02-09 08:28:03'
- author:
    name: lindenhayn
    picture: 119295
  body: "> Software shmoftware\r\n\r\nexactly -- if it's all just ones and zeros in
    Silicon, it gets difficult to draw a clear distinction between programs and data
    (e.g., Uli: \"Type 1 fonts are data\"). Some have even gone a step further, saying
    that [[http://www.ctheory.net/articles.aspx?id=74|\"there is no software\"]] at
    all, which would be Richard's comment thought through to its (philosophical) extreme...\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-09 10:20:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The distinction between character and glyph, which has emerged recently and
    come to exist as a well-understood philosophical concept, is, in a practical sense,
    politically predicated on both the Unicode Consortium, and the Microsoft-Adobe
    instituted OpenType, and dependent on the Internet.\r\n\r\nThe distinction between
    character and glyph says something about the relationship between text and rendering,
    software and hardware, but the meaning is elusive. And this is what makes type
    design so interesting, among other things."
  created: '2011-02-09 17:48:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Regarding the Eltra ruling I should like to mention that the <strong>Eltra
    Corporation</strong> was a merger of <strong>The Electric Auto-Lite Company</strong>
    and the <strong>Mergenthaler Linotype Company</strong>. The majority of stocks
    were held by the investor Gurdon W. Wattles. This means that the Eltra ruling
    may also be viewed as a Linotype ruling.\r\n\r\nWho knows the name of the designer
    and the name of the typeface not mentioned explicitly by names in the ruling\r\n\r\nwww.sanskritweb.net/forgers/eltra.pdf\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-12 17:37:44'
- author:
    name: AlexanderKatt
    picture: 128454
  body: "Oldnick explained it very well: \r\n\r\n<blockquote>Harvard Cyberlaw defines
    software as \"the programs or other 'instructions' that a computer needs to perform
    specific tasks.\" In the case of a font, the specific task is to render letterforms
    of a certain design. Period.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEssentialy what a piece of software
    does is to take the information given by the user, or by another piece of software,
    interpret it and display it in another way.\r\n\r\nThe stress here is \"or by
    another piece of software\" since many (most) programs' can only operate if they
    interact with other programs. That is where Christoph Knoth is wrong:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    specific task to render a font is done by the font renderer of an application
    that takes font data as an input. So only the combination of renderer and font
    is software.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSure, you cannot use font file without, say a
    text editor, but you also cannot use text editor, without an operating system
    (and you cannot have an OS, without BIOS). Does that text editors are not software?"
  created: '2011-02-22 10:07:43'
- author:
    name: AlexanderKatt
    picture: 128454
  body: "Picture it this way:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBios and Device Drivers\r\n|\r\nOperating
    system and text encoding software (sometimes  part of the OS)\r\n|\r\nGraphic
    software, such as Adobe Illustrator.\r\n|\r\nFonts and Plugins\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-22 10:17:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'No, but thanks. '
  created: '2011-02-22 13:12:35'
date: '2011-02-04 20:23:10'
title: Why are fonts software?

---
