---
author:
  name: kevintheophile
body: "See: http://www.openfontlibrary.org/wiki/Existing_Free_Fonts\r\n\r\nAnd go
  to the final page and see \"Freeware Fonts\"\r\n\r\nNo, no, no.\r\n\r\nAll these
  typodesigners, as Ray Larabie, Klein, and other don't allow to distribute, re-distribute
  and to derivate or remix their works, according their EULA. They don't want and
  won't hear the OpenFontLibrary's persuasion. These fonts are closed source while
  Linux is an open source software.\r\n\r\nI found the Ray Larabie and other proprietary
  typodesigners freeware fonts housed on Ubuntu software center. Then why did Ubuntu
  house the Ray Larabie and other proprietary typodesigners <strong>closed source</strong>
  freeware fonts on its software center?\r\n\r\nI'm against the house of Ray Larabie
  and other proprietary typodesigners fonts on Ubuntu because they're closed source!
  The closed source fonts, although are freeware, mustn't be housed on Ubuntu or any
  distros of Linux!\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nBecause the users of Linux know what open source
  is and Linux is open source, if they know, they'll think all which are on Ubuntu
  are open source, then they'll modify and [re-]distribute the Ray Larabie and other
  proprietary typodesigners fonts without realizing that the derived works and [re-]distribution
  aren't allowed by Ray Larabie and other proprietary typodesigners!\r\n\r\nI know
  you would tell us that there's description in fonts, but not all will view the fonts,
  not all know English, know reading in English and what EULA is!\r\n\r\nI know you
  would say they can take the free-ware fonts on Ubuntu but they can't derive your
  works for projects and themes of Ubuntu or other. But if they want to modify? The
  closed source fonts mustn't be housed on any distros of Linux, only the open source
  fonts must be housed on Ubuntu or other distros of Linux because the users want
  to modify.\r\n\r\nThen I'm against the house of closed source free-fonts on Ubuntu!\r\n\r\nI'm
  fundamentalist and fanatic Linuxer.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Wah! Toys out the pram. ;-)\r\n\r\n>then they'll modify and [re-]distribute
    the Ray Larabie and other proprietary typodesigners fonts without realizing that
    the derived works and [re-]distribution aren't allowed by Ray Larabie and other
    proprietary typodesigners!\r\n\r\nSeriously how many Ubuntu users are going to
    modify the fonts that come with the product? Does the product come with a font
    editor? The new Ubuntu fonts were made using proprietary tools including Microsoft
    VTT. \r\n "
  created: '2011-02-21 17:54:08'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Sii,\r\n\r\nIt doesn't import or care how many Ubuntu users are going to
    modify the fonts. Do you know FontForge and Inkscape? Then Ubuntu users are going
    to modify the letters of the proprietary typodesigners fonts at Inkscape, for
    example, they'll modify vectorizing a letter 'G' of CAC PInafore font:\r\n\r\nhttp://img218.imageshack.us/f/modifythefont.png/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/http://img218.imageshack.us/img218/3479/modifythefont.png]\r\n\r\nHow
    will you react if an Ubuntu user use your closed source freeware font and modify
    it at Inkscape?\r\n\r\nAnd FontForge, it happens the same thing that in Inkscape.
    \r\n\r\nRhey want to modify the fonts at Inkscape at FontForge for projetcs, works,
    adds, magazines and books."
  created: '2011-02-21 18:13:10'
- author:
    name: jacobh
  body: "On Debian, at least, it\u2019s pretty clear that these are not \u201Cfree\u201D
    in the sense of being open-source:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n~$ aptitude show ttf-larabie-deco\r\nPackage:
    ttf-larabie-deco                \r\nNew: yes\r\nState: not installed\r\nVersion:
    1:20011216-1.1\r\nPriority: optional\r\n<strong>Section: non-free/fonts</strong>\r\nMaintainer:
    Erich Schubert <erich@debian.org>\r\nUncompressed Size: 7,336 k\r\nDepends: defoma\r\nRecommends:
    fontconfig\r\n[&c. emphasis mine]\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nI imagine the licence file
    itself will also be in /usr/share/doc/$packagename/copyright if Ubuntu follows
    the Debian model.\r\n\r\nUnless you use one of the [[http://www.gnu.org/distros/free-distros.html|Free
    Software Foundation endorsed distributions]] which contain no non-open-source
    software, it is almost inevitable that some things you can get from a package
    manager will not be Open Source, be they binary drivers for graphics cards or
    pieces of software such as Flash. I don\u2019t see why that is a bigger issue
    with Fonts then any of these. "
  created: '2011-02-21 20:05:44'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Jacob\r\n\r\nExact! \r\n\r\n<cite>Following are the GNU/Linux distributions
    we know of which have a firm policy commitment to only include and only propose
    free software. They <strong>reject non-free applications, non-free programming
    platforms, non-free drivers, or non-free firmware \u201Cblobs\u201D</strong>.
    If by mistake they do include any, they remove it. To learn more about what makes
    for a free GNU/Linux distribution, see our Guidelines for Free System Distributions.</cite>\r\n\r\nThen
    why were the closed source <em><strong>pseudofree</strong></em>-fonts of Ray Larabie
    or other proprietary typodesigners lodged on Ubuntu software center? They must
    be removed!\r\n\r\nI'll fight and discuss the non-free fonts with Mark, Ubuntu's
    founder and presidnet of Canonical. I'll invite and persuade Mark to remove the
    closed source fonts from Ubuntu. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-22 02:24:53'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: I have just invited my old unbearable "enemy" Ray Larabie to argue and discuss
    with us here. I want to challenge him. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/gtalk_4223.png]
  created: '2011-02-22 02:54:13'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "It was a mistake to get involved with open source licensing. I was told that
    my terms were acceptable when I agreed to allow them in the repository. I assumed
    that the person who set up the contract with me knew what they were doing.\r\n\r\nKevin
    is correct. Those fonts should be removed. If someone can remove them from the
    repository I would be pleased. I wanted to update the fonts because I don't like
    the idea of people being stuck with shoddy fonts with created a decade ago. It
    seems it's impossible to update them so they should be removed.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot of pressure on me to comply to everyone else's idea of what constitutes
    an acceptable license agreement. If my EULA isn't acceptable, choose someone else's
    fonts."
  created: '2011-02-22 03:15:58'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "I won! I'll forward this topic and Ray's message to Mark, Ubuntu's founder.\r\n\r\nThe
    closed source fonts of Ray Larabie and proprietary typodesigners will disappear
    from Ubuntu!\r\n\r\nI hope the updated and new fonts of Ray Larabie DON'T be added
    to Ubuntu software center because I'm against and they're not open source. They're
    under Ray's EULA. \r\n\r\nI won!\r\n\r\nLONG LIVE LINUX!\r\nLONG LIVE OPEN SOURCE
    AND GPL!\r\nDOWN WITH THE CLOSED SOURCE FONTS!"
  created: '2011-02-22 03:39:40'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Ray Larabie, will you add or update your fonts to Ubuntu software center?\r\n\r\nPlease,
    don't add or update your fonts to Ubuntu or any distros of LInux software centers
    because yours update and new fonts aren't open source, are under your EULA which
    doesn't allow to distribute, re-distribute, remix or modify your fonts. I don't
    want them on Ubuntu or any distros of Linux!\r\n\r\nI want just open source fonts!"
  created: '2011-02-22 03:45:10'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "<em>Ray Larabie, will you add or update your fonts to Ubuntu software center?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    thank you.\r\n\r\n<em>I don't want them on Ubuntu or any distros of Linux!</em>\r\n\r\nCool.
    Me neither.\r\n\r\n<em>I want just open source fonts!</em>\r\n\r\nWe are in agreement.
    If you can have these removed without my involvement, I'd very much appreciate
    it. Having those fonts in the repository has been nothing but a <em>source</em>
    of irritation for me."
  created: '2011-02-22 04:04:06'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Wowww! I won!\r\n\r\nLONG LIVE LINUX!\r\n\r\nThe Ubuntu users will be free
    of depending on the proprietary typodesigners' EULAs! If they're not free and
    break the EULA rules, Ray Larabie will prosecute and report the users to the justice
    court by the derived works that aren't allowed by Ray!\r\n\r\nI don't want Ubuntu
    user to be arrested under because of derived works and EULAs rules!\r\n\r\nLet's
    challenge, discuss and persuade Mark and Canonical to remove all pseudofreeware
    fonts of proprietary typodesigners from Ubuntu. Let's fight for the revolution
    of open source, GPL and freedom as the French fought for the French Revolution!"
  created: '2011-02-22 04:21:59'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Kevin, please don't speak on my behalf. I'm not threatening anyone. If my
    EULA doesn't comply with open source rules, then I recommend their removal. That's
    all. I was led to believe that my customized agreement would be acceptable. Now
    I can see it clearly goes against open source rules. I have no interest in modifying
    the agreement any further and distributing old, broken versions of my fonts doesn't
    do anyone any good.\r\n\r\nI <em>recommend</em> that my fonts be removed. I don't
    require them to be and there will be no consequences from me if they're not removed.
    This is Kevin's battle, not mine.\r\n\r\nIf anyone would like to discuss open
    source licensing with me: compose an email. Select all. Delete. I don't want to
    hear about it. If you succeed or fail in removing them, I still don't want to
    hear about it."
  created: '2011-02-22 04:51:25'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Let's fight for the revolution of open source, GPL and freedom as the
    French fought for the French Revolution!</cite>\r\n\r\nGood idea! I\u2019ll start
    by playing the part of Marat and ordering all the Linux geeks to a date with Mademoiselle
    Guillotine. "
  created: '2011-02-22 05:24:21'
- author:
    name: jacobh
  body: "Somewhat against my better judgement, just in case anyone has misinterpreted
    what I said based on Kevin's replies:\r\n\r\n<em>Then why were the closed source
    pseudofree-fonts of Ray Larabie or other proprietary typodesigners lodged on Ubuntu
    software center? They must be removed!</em>\r\n\r\nIf you looked at the list of
    endorsed Linux distributions, you would have noticed that Ubuntu is not there
    (nor almost any other well-known distribution). The reason for this is that all
    the major distributions include software which is free--as in you don't have to
    pay for it--but not open-source. Indeed, they even have an [[http://www.gnu.org/distros/common-distros.html|explanation]]
    page which states: <em>\"Ubuntu provides specific repositories of nonfree software,
    and Canonical expressly promotes and recommends nonfree software under the Ubuntu
    name in some of their distribution channels.\"</em> \r\n\r\nIt is not as if fonts
    are the only non-open-source pieces of software shipped by Ubuntu or Canonical.
    Ubuntu has lots of packages which disallow modification. For example, the [[http://packages.ubuntu.com/maverick/nvidia-173|Nvidia
    drivers]] have a [[http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/restricted/n/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173_173.14.28-0ubuntu1/nvidia-173.copyright|license]]
    which says:\r\n\r\n<em>No Reverse Engineering.  Customer may not reverse engineer,
    decompile, or disassemble the SOFTWARE, nor attempt in any other manner to obtain
    the source code.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see how this is different from the distribution
    of these fonts..."
  created: '2011-02-22 09:59:54'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I guess so but please make them go away so I don't have to deal with fanatics.
    I'm sick and tired of the mentally ill pestering me about my EULA.
  created: '2011-02-22 10:39:17'
- author:
    name: mjkerpan
  body: I'm sorry, but this whole thing strikes me as a bit silly. I'm all for free
    software and open fonts, but to attack somebody because they don't want to release
    fonts under an open license is a bit silly. Maybe, if you want someone to release
    fonts as open source, you should pay them to do it, like Google is doing, instead
    of complaining about it on the Internet.
  created: '2011-02-22 13:42:34'
- author:
    name: fujito
    picture: 120633
  body: "Google really pays people for releasing their fonts under open source license?
    Do you refer to the google web fonts? If yes, then I think, they just asked the
    font designers if they would allow google to use the fonts for the webfonts-project.\r\n\r\nBut
    I agree with mjkerpan: Asking a designer kindly if he could consider publishing
    his fonts under open source is certainly much better then attacking the designer.\r\n\r\nI
    had a look at the [[http://typodermicfonts.com/the-larabie-fonts-collection|homepage]]
    of Ray Larabie and the many comments there are severly insulting Ray Larabie.
    I hope that these comments are not from a typophile member.\r\n\r\n@kevintheophile:
    Linux and Open Source are great but you make reader of this thread think that
    Ray Larabie is a criminal."
  created: '2011-02-22 14:05:14'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "@kevintheophile\r\nIf you don't want non-free software don't install it,
    I don't want it myself, but it does not give you the right to insult others for
    not accepting your rules. I myself consider non-free software immoral but it does
    not give me the right to insult people who don't share my ideas, also I'm grateful
    for people who provide free of charge fonts for non-commercial use as we say in
    Egypt <em>half blindness is better than total blindness</em>.\r\n\r\n@fujito \r\nThey
    do pay, not that much but good enough for someone who would release his fonts
    under libre license anyway."
  created: '2011-02-22 15:36:14'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@typodermic\r\n\r\nI'll forward this topic and your messages to Mark, Canonical
    and Linux foundations, trying to invite and persuade them to remove your fonts
    and the non-open source fonts from the repository and from Ubuntu software centers.
    \r\n\r\n@jacobh\r\n\r\nAh, yes, I read and I understood, but I'm still against
    the distribution of <strong>non-open source</strong> fonts to any distros of Linux
    because many Linux users will use the proprietary typodesigners fonts which are
    under EULAs, for moidfying them at Inkscape, Xara Xtreme and FontForge for adds,
    homeworks, works, \"flyers\", films, videos of Youtube, etc. \r\n\r\nI'll try
    to invite and persuade Mark, Canonical foundation and other Linux distros founders
    to remove all the non-open source fonts and replace them by the open source fonts
    of Google Fonts Directory and Debian Fonts from G\xFCrack from Switzerland. \r\n\r\n@typodermic\r\nYeah,
    I love when you call us fanatics. But Winusers, fanboys of Mac OS, of FontLab,
    Fontmanager, FontCreator, etc. are fanatic too. Will they annoy you?\r\n\r\n@mjerkan\r\nDid
    you mean Canonical paid the open source fonts Ubuntu for the typodesigner Dalton
    Maag?\r\n\r\n@fujito, I didn't call Ray Larabie criminal, but I'm only and just
    against the distribution, lodging or addition of any non-open source fonts to
    any distros of Linux because they're under EULAs, which are enemies of GPL. \r\n\r\n@Khaled\r\nI
    don't want because they abused of prices and molested us, wanted and run after
    our money! The prices are outrageous and absurd!\r\n\r\nBadwindows, Bad Apple,
    BadAdobe, BadCorel and BadLab are greedy, thieves, manipulator and made us, specially
    Latin Americans and Africans suffering a lot. They think we all are rich and have
    much money.\r\n\r\nBut and the Africans? Didn't you see many and many Africans
    are suffering, sick, poor and are hungary and thirsty? Will the Africans pay for
    Badwindows, Bad Apple, BadAdobe, BadCorel and BadLab? No, because they don't have
    much money and are poor, if they bought them, they'll lose their life with hunger
    and thrist!\r\n\r\nYes, the most of Africans use Badwindows, but their Badwindows
    are pirate. In Africa, Badwindows, BadAdobe and  BadCorel are pirate and are cheaper.
    Do you want to see the real price that Africans must pay for Adobe Photoshop?\r\n\r\nIn
    Africa and South Africa, Photoshop costs full US $849.00 ex tax and upgrade from
    US $245.00 ex tax!\r\n\r\nWill Africans pay for it? NO, they're expensive! While
    in USA, it costs full from US $699.00 and upgrade from US $199.00 and in UK, it
    costs full from \xA3657.60 or \xA3548.00 ex VAT and upgrade from \xA3190.80 and
    \xA3159.00 ex VAT!!!!\r\n\r\nBad Adobe is greed, thief and hypocrite!\r\n\r\nHave
    Badwindow$, Bad Apple and Bad Adobe ever distributed some always-free Adobe softwares
    to some \r\npoor Africans? Nothinng and never. What they want is $$$$! They don't
    worry about the Africans and don't care or mind what happened with the Africans!
    They worry only about the money.\r\n\r\nIf they're already richer, why are they
    still running after our money. Weren't they pleased with how much money they have?
    They're megalomaniac, egoist and egocentric!\r\n\r\nIf Badwindows, BadAdobe, BadCorel
    and Bad Apple want to be the death of the piracy, they have to reduce the nonesnse
    prices! If they don't want to reduce, the piracy will always grow up and will
    never finish! If they want to be the death of virus and hackers, they have to
    open the source, but if they don't want, Winusers and Maccers will always be favourite
    targets of hackers and virus! They're su.ckers! They're Masonic Illuminati who
    want $$$$$$!\r\n\r\nLONG LIVE LINUX!\r\nLONG LIVE UBUNTU!\r\nLONG LIVE OPEN SOURCE!\r\nLET'S
    BE INDEPENDENT OF MONOPOLIST EMPIRES OF ADOBE, COREL, APPLE AND WINDOWS!\r\nI
    WISH AFRICA BE FREE OF THESE EMPIRES AND GET FREE LINUX AND DON'T PAY MORE THE
    PROPRIETARY SOFTWARES!\r\n\r\nDown with Adobe, Corel, Apple and Windows!\r\nLet's
    fight for the revolution of freedom, open source and free softwares or we'll die
    as the French revolutionary woman said to the public in French: Allons lutter
    ou mourrons!\r\nRemember of the French lemme: Libert\xE9, Fraternit\xE9 et \xC9galit\xE9
    that the mnopolist empires viotaed!"
  created: '2011-02-22 17:28:04'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: I've just sent an e-mail to Mark Slutth and Canonical and Ubuntu officials.
    I invite them to read this topic and discuss with us. I'm waiting for their answers.
  created: '2011-02-22 18:05:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't know about the fonts, but the failure of many Linux distributions
    to include closed-source <em>device drivers</em>, and the practice of the Linux
    team in changing the device driver interface with each release, is basically Linux
    shooting itself in the foot. If it's likely that your computer might have the
    wrong video card or something to be able to use a non-commercial Linux distribution...
    that's just one more reason not to bother with Linux.\r\n\r\nIt's when there are
    almost as many Linux desktops out there as Windows desktops that Linux will have
    stuff available for it, making it a viable alternative."
  created: '2011-02-22 18:06:12'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "<blockquote>Ah, yes, I read and I understood, but I'm still against the distribution
    of non-open source fonts to any distros of Linux because many Linux users will
    use the proprietary typodesigners fonts which are under EULAs, for moidfying them
    at Inkscape, Xara Xtreme and FontForge for adds, homeworks, works, \"flyers\",
    films, videos of Youtube, etc.</blockquote>\r\nExcept his EULA permits using Inkscape
    and Xara Xtreme (but not FontForge) for modifying fonts and using them for adds,
    homeworks, works, \"flyers\", films, videos of Youtube, etc."
  created: '2011-02-22 18:10:32'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@miha\r\n\r\nAh, yes, but if the Linux user want to modify the fonts at FontForge
    for projecting Ubuntu themes to Gnome-Look.org for \"customizing\" the Ubuntu
    system?"
  created: '2011-02-22 18:15:27'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: As I understand, no (and also wrote no FontForge).
  created: '2011-02-22 18:23:17'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@miha, see, the EULA doesn't allow to add more characters on Ray Larabie's
    or other proprietary typodesigners fonts if there're not accented letters in his
    or their fonts, for example, French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish accents and
    Greek and Russian fonts. \r\n\r\nThen EULA is enemy of GPL and freedom. I'm enemy
    of EULA because it doesn't allow to add more Spanish and Russian characters in
    the right fonts which are under EULA!\r\n\r\nI want only and only open source
    fonts to Ubuntu! I'm against the closed source fonts!"
  created: '2011-02-22 18:28:45'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Linux isn't for closed source fonts because Linux is open source!\r\nClosed
    fonts aren't for Linux because closed source fonts are closed source!\r\n\r\nClosed
    and open sources are enemies, can't be in agreement, can't walk together, as politics
    and religions can't walk together!"
  created: '2011-02-22 18:31:23'
- author:
    name: bubulle
  body: "I've just been pointed to this by a fellow member of the pkg-fonts team in
    Debian.\r\n\r\nIt's actually funny as I just took over the \"ttf-larabie\" fonts
    package in name of the team. The main point was actually improving the packaging
    techniques and drop support for a few obsolete packaging behaviour.\r\n\r\nThis
    package is part of the \"non-free\" section in Debian and this is why it is also
    present in Ubuntu.\r\n\r\nWhy is it in non free? Because the license does not
    meet de Debian Free Software Guidelines (http://www.debian.org/social_contract#guidelines).
    These guidelines are certainly not a way to reject those who develop software
    that doesn't meet them or put shame on them. \r\nNot being free according to these
    guidelines is certainly not a shame and burst in flames of hell.\r\n\r\nAs it
    is probably known (and somehow debated by the FSF), Debian (let me quote the DFSG
    : \" acknowledge that some of our users require the use of works that do not conform
    to the Debian Free Software Guidelines. We have created \"contrib\" and \"non-free\"
    areas in our archive for these works.\"\r\n\r\nSo, as a consequence :\r\n- ttf-larabie
    will remain packaged as it has apparently a quite significant user base : http://qa.debian.org/popcon.php?package=ttf-larabie\r\n-
    it will remain in the non-free section of the archive so as an extra areas of
    the Debian archive, which is not part of Debian\r\n- any derived distribution
    is free to include it or to choose not including it.\r\n\r\nTo the original author
    : please don't spread misconception of what free software is and how it should
    be promoted. My personal opinion is that, by pushing your ideas the way you're
    doing, you're doing more harm than good to Free Software.\r\n\r\nAnd, by the way,
    I very much doubt that Mark Shuttleworth will follow your suggestion. Just guessing..:-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-22 19:06:20'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: Hi Christian. Thanks for showing up and please disregard what I said. We all
    got trolled on this thread. Me of all people should have picked up on it.
  created: '2011-02-22 22:49:31'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "Christian, no use to persuade me to recognise that I'm very wrong and accept
    the reality. Ubuntu failed just a bit. If Mark won't follow my suggestion and
    won't want to remove the non-free or non-open source fonts from Ubuntu, the problem
    is his and Ubuntu.\r\n\r\n@Ray Larabie, if Mark won't follow my suggestion, the
    problem will be his and from Ubuntu, and get unpleased and don't be glad because
    the Linux users will use your fonts to modify at FontForge. I hope they use your
    fonts and you get furious when you'll see your modified fonts used by users on
    their blogs. \r\n\r\nIf you'll see your font that was modified and used by an
    user on a non-English-speaking blog, principally Brazilian, Colombian or Italian.
    Will you prosecute him by having your font? Will you send an e-mail, writing in
    English to him if he doesn't speak or understand English? If you send an e-mail
    to him, in English, he'll think you're a spammer. \r\n\r\nDon't be nevrous, because
    I'm testing and challenging you with these questions. \r\n\r\nI'm very mature
    than you. I know what the users are doing. I know what happens with them. I know
    a lot the world of piracy. \r\n\r\nThank you for calling me troll. I'm honoured
    by your ciritcs. You all are trolls too. "
  created: '2011-02-22 23:35:43'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Linux users who have FontForge can design their own fonts and release them
    under whatever license they like (though FF does facilitate including the SIL
    open font license in generated fonts). There is no need to modify and release
    other peoples fonts without authorization.
  created: '2011-02-22 23:49:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Personally, I'm looking forward to the day when the only fonts available
    to self-styled open source fanatics and fundamentalists have \u0915 for k."
  created: '2011-02-23 03:00:36'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "You seem to think you're discussing important theories with some kind of
    corporate font machine. In reality, I'm just some guy with a computer who makes
    fonts all day. Some are free, some are not. Sometimes I make mistakes. For instance,
    contributing to this nonsensical thread.\r\n\r\nThere is one thing that does upset
    me, personally. There's no shortage of gift horse mouth lookers on the internet.
    Make something free and you're guaranteed to have someone bitch about it. I doubt
    that an average font designer who isn't known for free fonts has to deal with
    the amount of bullshit that I have to deal with.\r\n\r\nIf any students are reading
    this and considering making free fonts, be prepared to deal with interesting individuals
    like Kevin. People like this will email you, introduce themselves and tell you
    that everything you're doing is wrong. So often, I'll be working my ass off and
    there'll be another internet complainer, bitching about this and that. It's not
    exactly motivational. My prices are too low. My prices are too high. I don't support
    certain languages. My EULA should be open source.\r\n\r\nI have to admit, these
    internet complainers get to me.\r\n\r\nIn conclusion, Kevin:\r\n\r\nStay the f&#117;ck
    away from me, motherf&#117;cker. Don't email me. Don't even f&#117;cking mention
    me on Typophile. You're succeeded in pissing me off. Congratulations. You can
    have a big laugh. You're a big revolutionary hero who has struck a blow against
    the big font corporations. You sat in from of your computer and changed the world.\r\n\r\nAnd
    while we're on the subject: go f&#117;ck yourself.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 07:27:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>Personally, I'm looking forward to the day when the
    only fonts available to self-styled open source fanatics and fundamentalists have
    \u0915 for k.</cite>\r\nWell, I'm not. Although I do disagree with the original
    poster's views, open-source fonts do serve a purpose, and I am glad that a few
    of them exist.\r\nAs I've noted, in general, most free Linux distributions don't
    make free closed-source software available. This is a serious issue in the area
    of device drivers. In the case of fonts, it is likely a significantly less pressing
    concern, although I think that the Ubuntu people have made the right decision.\r\nHowever,
    I realize that you were no doubt just jesting as a reaction to the original poster's
    unfortunate style."
  created: '2011-02-23 07:53:56'
- author:
    name: snow is nigh
    picture: 120282
  body: "Kevin, you are a piece of shit. And dumb as well. So let me make put this
    in a simple way:\r\n\r\n- the world is not like you think it is.\r\n- bundled
    ubuntu software is not fully GPL and open source.\r\n- you are a dumb-ass who
    can't think or listen. \r\n- you will never have a <em>smart</em> girlfriend/boyfriend,
    if you don't change. \r\n- Ray here will not takes legal measures against somebody
    modifying fonts bundled with ubuntu, never intended to do, just wanted to do the
    world something good. It is not his fault that his free fonts were bundled with
    Ubuntu without a GPL. You are fighting a war that does not exist. You do this
    because you have a boring life I assume. I know people like you, sitting at their
    parents place, not working or doing anything. Your life is the internet. There
    are no people giving you positive emotions. Get yourself help, talk with a therapist!\r\n-
    as part of your therapy, you should avoid places like Typophile, which let you
    fall into an agression pattern (you feel forced to provoke, you feel happy about
    your rude comments and the answers), because this is your only source of emotional
    feedback. So please do your self a favor, stay away. "
  created: '2011-02-23 08:09:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "When I have read \u201CI won!\u201D and \u201CWowww! I won!\u201D, I already
    thought about posting this tip: Avoid discussions initiated by members named Jasontheophile,
    Justintheophile, Dustintheophile, Dennistheophile, Tylertheophile, Chantaltheophile,
    Mandytheophile, Sandytheophile, Cindytheophile, Nancytheophile."
  created: '2011-02-23 08:23:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "trollmastereophile \"Remember of the French lemme: Libert\xE9, Fraternit\xE9
    et \xC9galit\xE9 that the mnopolist empires viotaed!\"\r\n\r\nYeah France! Then
    spend 200 years excluding blacks, Arabs, orientals, Jews and anyone not educated
    in the right schools from all high government and corporate positions. Great model,
    jack of all tirades.\r\n\r\nRay, I've never heard so upset, I'm sorry you pay
    attention to this nutrino. He represents no one worth dealing with and I'm fairly
    certain he lights his hair on fire and then types with his nose. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 10:54:49'
- author:
    name: gaultney
    picture: 112764
  body: "Ray - Sorry you're getting abuse from certain jerks and zealots in the open
    source community. Like most religious or dogmatic groups, the huge majority of
    the people there are reasonable, kind and helpful. But there are always a few
    that decide to be fanatical and misrepresent the group as a bunch of fundamentalist
    wackos. They're not worth your time.\r\n\r\nEveryone - There are valid and attractive
    reasons to release a font as open source, but as we've seen here there are some
    people who heap abuse on designers instead of thanks. The best way to minimize
    that, and protect yourself, is to use the [[http://scripts.sil.org/ofl|SIL Open
    Font License (OFL)]]. That license is well-accepted, legally-reviewed and has
    significant protections for the designer. If you use the OFL then the target for
    abuse shifts from you to the authors and advocates of the OFL. We deal with the
    zealots so you don't have to."
  created: '2011-02-23 13:38:13'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "For everyone: maybe some of you already noticed Kevin is actually Gustavo,
    formerly known as gusrejc1989, who already caused polemic with offensive posts
    in threads about font piracy and copyright violation. He is a 21-years-old guy
    living near Rio de Janeiro.\r\n\r\nFor Gustavo: I cannot understand why you came
    here, in a technical and collaborative forum, to treat anyone who disagree from
    you as an enemy. I seriously think you need psychiatric help before this behaviour
    cause more damage for yourself."
  created: '2011-02-23 14:51:48'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "I laughed at you all. I love your offensive and insults comments. I love
    this topic and this forum. The typodesigners are very funny. But I ignored you
    all and I don't care what you criticised and told about me. I'll stop visiting
    this forum because I need to work, but don't be glad because don't think I'll
    disappear from here, soonly I'll come back to here in many months when this forum
    will be calm and will forget my topics and our offences and our hurts. \r\n\r\nYou
    accused me that I'm internet addicted. You're funny. Didn't you notice that I
    didn't visit this forum for many months? Didn't you know why? Because I was studying
    and working. You're funny by having accused me of Internet addicted, because you
    all are Internet addicted and addicted in Typophile too. Here's the hypocrisy.
    You always answered many topics everyday. It's funny. \r\n\r\nBye boring people!"
  created: '2011-02-23 15:34:12'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: God help us all if this guy and Uli ever end up in the same thread...
  created: '2011-02-23 19:40:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ooh, please! Can we just let the two of them have some big argument? Nobody
    else contributing?\r\n\r\nSympathies to Ray: You sure as heck didn't deserve all
    this nonsense, and I'm sorry Kevin was able to goad you to the point of you losing
    it. Hang in there, old bean!\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-02-23 21:23:24'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0264464/awards">BAA Award for Best Title
    Graphics</a> -- I could see it a hundred times and still love it. No amount of
    trolling can take that away from you, Ray!
  created: '2011-02-24 00:24:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Actually, far from \"losing it\", I think Ray's admonition was simply appropriate
    - no more, no less. No reason to hold it in if the guy's a schmuck. (Then again,
    I'm from Brooklyn, NY. Maybe my FU appropriateness threshold is comparatively
    low.)\r\n\r\n@sii\r\n<em>\"Seriously how many Ubuntu users are going to modify
    the fonts that come with the product?\"</em>\r\nWell, me, for one.\r\nReally,
    how many users are going to modify the fonts that come with Windows?\r\nSo why
    bother mentioning them in the Windows EULA?\r\n\r\nIn matters of rights, which
    copyright/licensing assumedly will expand or curtail, I don't see how the number
    of people who may or may not assert those rights is relevant.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-24 03:51:56'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Seriously how many Ubuntu users are going to modify the fonts that come
    with the product?\"\r\n \r\nGreat, so now we know, it\u2019s one 1 in 12,000,000.
    \ \r\n\r\nWe don't mention modification in the font section of the Windows EULA.
    We talk about real world activities like document embedding and downloading the
    fonts to printers. \r\n"
  created: '2011-02-24 05:46:09'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "As a Linux user and open source enthuasiast, I find this debate raised by
    Kevin irrelevant. TTF/OTF formats are standard, source/matrix files in addition
    to these are great for open source scholars, but in real life ? Hmmm... \r\n\r\nIt's
    already hard to make type designers understand we need less restrictive licences
    in order to use typefaces for text and not just for branding ; if we discourage
    Ubuntu / Ray Larabie initiatives with such zealot criticism, then we're doomed.\r\n\r\nWe
    need to proceed step by step. First of all, the users, the readers, the writers,
    the designers and then, only then, we'll start byzantine debate in order to determine
    if vfb sources is more or less appropriate than fontforge sources. BTW, UFO is
    possibly a good compromise, it works with FontLab, FontLab, Glyphs and others
    type editors, I guess. \r\n\r\nIn that particular matter, the big deal is perhaps
    to convert the VFB of the Ubuntu fonts into UFO. Could we not do it peacefully
    without insulting people ?\r\n\r\nThere was a time type world was more civilized
    ; let's go to this, my fellow typographers :-)"
  created: '2011-02-24 05:50:59'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Call me a bloony if you want to, but I think that the following YouTube vid
    is a good antidote for *theophile's psyche-damaging rhetoric:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZ6DlhCWln4|Markus
    Wargh plays Sibelius' Finlandia on the organ in Lule\xE5 Cathedral]]."
  created: '2011-02-24 11:29:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">There was a time type world was more civilized \r\n\r\nNo there wasn't. "
  created: '2011-02-24 16:56:42'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "There was: \r\nhttp://www.typography.com/fonts/font_inside.php?wipID=17&productLineID=100012\r\n\r\nand
    printers used to be authorized to have a sword.\r\n\r\nIt was the early and noble
    ages of typography."
  created: '2011-02-24 21:54:31'
- author:
    name: Tim Ahrens
    picture: 109692
  body: "Practically speaking, what does \u201Csource\u201D mean when we talk about
    \u201Copen source fonts\u201D? Assuming I wanted to contribute an open source
    font, which format should I provide? Could it be FontLab vfb? That would be open
    source with a proprietary source format. UFO? Doesn't support TT instructions
    (the only reason why we need a source format) so that is not an option. Does it
    have to be Fontforge sfd? Then I would have to give up the freedom to use my font
    editor of choice in order to participate in the free software world. Hmmm, funny
    world it is."
  created: '2011-02-25 09:56:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">UFO? Doesn't support TT instructions\r\n\r\nWhat?\r\n\r\n>No there wasn't.\r\n\r\nYou
    were not in the industry when technology was off topic, so I understand."
  created: '2011-02-25 10:51:23'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: ">You were not in the industry when technology was off topic, so I understand.\r\n\r\nThe
    good old days of civility when everything was \"open source\" except for the font
    name. One vendor could rip off and resell another vendor's Palatino as long as
    it was renamed as Palatina. "
  created: '2011-02-25 14:33:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Dan, I think the \"incivility\" era pre-dates the digital age, to a time
    when type was controlled by the equipment manufactures, and even to the earliest
    days of type where \"piracy\" was an issue and type designers were un-credited,
    or worse a convicted murderer. Not saying things are perfect today, but it's hard
    to identify a time when they were better - except say for the odd individual who
    was in the right place at the right time.  \r\n"
  created: '2011-02-25 15:48:25'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@Tim Ahrens - You can equally well view the font file itself as a tokenised
    form of the source code. Most home micro BASIC interpreters stored and saved programs/data
    that way.\r\n\r\nNothing says you can't create your fonts with FontLab or whatever
    and then use FontForge to dump them to SFD. Or UFO, which FontForge understands,
    too.\r\n\r\nStill, would like to see the FontLab VFB format documented good and
    proper."
  created: '2011-02-25 16:03:19'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>You can equally well view the font file itself as a tokenised form of
    the source code.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, of course you <em>can</em>, but it's totally
    useless for modifying the design, which is (I think) the reason for open source
    fonts."
  created: '2011-02-25 16:29:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: When dealing with OTF/TTF outline fonts, you need a special tool (the font
    editor) for that more often than not, anyway.
  created: '2011-02-25 17:05:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Tim Ahrens:\r\n<cite>Practically speaking, what does \u201Csource\u201D
    mean when we talk about \u201Copen source fonts\u201D?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't
    mean what you seem to be thinking. Compiled TrueType fonts will do just fine -
    a textual source listing or a font-editor format file is not required.\r\n\r\nIt
    means that the license has to allow me (perhaps with the restriction that I allow
    the same privilege to the next guy - GNU versus BSD) to put the font in a font
    editor, make changes, and <em>distribute</em> the result. That is the generally-accepted
    distinction between \"open source\" and \"not open source\".\r\n\r\nIt's true
    that some software where nearly all you can do with the source is look at it has
    also been called open source. And this does have some benefit in maintaining the
    software. (You can fix bugs and recompile for your own internal use, perhaps.)"
  created: '2011-02-25 20:26:47'
- author:
    name: snow is nigh
    picture: 120282
  body: "Dude, Kevin, you are using a prime symbol (minute/arc-minute/feet) as an
    apostrophe!\u203D"
  created: '2011-02-25 20:56:09'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "I'm very sorry for my absence, because I was working for my client and I
    was studying, but it happened the worst news, ImageShack blocked all the images
    that anyone can't view and Blogger got a bug which is being not able to click
    in viewing and saving.\r\n\r\n@all\r\n\r\nI've read all your comments. Thank you
    for your critics and your offences that I deserved. I'm honoured with your comments.
    I ignored and didn't care about what you said about me. But please stop discussing
    this topic and forget this topic and me. I'm just very mistaken with misconceptions
    because I was out of control and unbalanced and acted with bigotry and extremism.
    \r\n\r\nPlease stop discussing this topic and forget this topic\r\n\r\n@snow is
    nigh\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not. Why are you asking me this?"
  created: '2011-02-25 21:16:15'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "\"Please stop discussing this topic and forget this topic\"\r\n\r\n\r\nThis
    thread is open source. We can do whatever we want with it."
  created: '2011-02-25 21:45:25'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Jonathan,\r\n\r\nWell, do what you want. "
  created: '2011-02-26 02:23:24'
- author:
    name: qualitycontrol
  body: "@all: I'm going to take this thread even further off topic.\r\n\r\nWhy do
    you need to put an /@/ in front of someone's name to clarify that you are addressing
    them? Leaving it out will achieve the same effect. \r\n\r\nI know that's how they
    do it over at Twitter, but don't see why it's translating everywhur."
  created: '2011-02-26 02:54:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">\"Please stop discussing this topic and forget this topic\"\r\n \r\n>>This
    thread is open source. We can do whatever we want with it.\r\n\r\nSorry, scroll
    down it's \"\xA9 2000-2010 Typophile, <EM>All Rights Reserved.</EM>\"  :-) where's
    the EULA? And isn't it 2011?"
  created: '2011-02-26 03:22:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: The copyright applies to the software on which this forum is running. As for
    forum comments, although there's a posting guidelines post, I can't seem to find
    a link to the Terms of Service and/or User Agreement for the forums.
  created: '2011-02-26 03:38:20'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@qualitycontrol - If you are as slow a typist as I am, there may well be
    three or four posts popping up between you starting a reply and you finally hitting
    \"Post\". It also helps if you want to reply to multiple posts in one.\r\n\r\n@kevintheophile
    - An it harm none do what you will, shall be the Law. Works for the Wiccans, works
    for the others, too.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-26 14:38:06'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Te Rowan\r\n\r\n\"An it harm none do what you wil\"\r\n\r\nI didn't understand.
    Whay do you mean this?"
  created: '2011-02-26 17:40:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "It's a part of what's called the Wiccan Rede. It says, basically, that you
    are free to do what harms <em>nobody</em> - not even yourself. DTRT (Do The Right
    Thing). Be constructive, not destructive.\r\n\r\nI consider myself an eclectic
    heathen. Eclectic = I steal inspirations (and ideas) from any source that hasn't
    nailed them fast. A +5 blessed crowbar deals with the rest."
  created: '2011-02-26 17:54:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, let's drag this puppy well off-topic:\r\n\r\nThe 'do what you will
    so long as it doesn't harm anyone' ethic suffers from the same problem as utilitarianism:
    the inability to calculate the net effect of our actions. Simply put, we don't
    know what the potentially harmful outcomes of our actions will be; hence, traditional
    systems of ethics establish positive principles by which to live, rather than
    negative outcomes to be avoided."
  created: '2011-02-26 22:42:30'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@Te Rowan\r\n\r\n<cite> It says, basically, that you are free to do what
    harms nobody - not even yourself. DTRT (Do The Right Thing). Be constructive,
    not destructive.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you mean I can violate the EULAs without harming
    anyone? If so, no, I don't want because I would be arrested, I have to obey and
    to be honest to the Law. "
  created: '2011-02-26 23:22:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>The 'do what you will so long as it doesn't harm anyone'
    ethic suffers from the same problem as utilitarianism: the inability to calculate
    the net effect of our actions. Simply put, we don't know what the potentially
    harmful outcomes of our actions will be; hence, traditional systems of ethics
    establish positive principles by which to live, rather than negative outcomes
    to be avoided.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat applies if that ethic is taken literally, but
    if it's simply understood to mean conformance to a traditional rule-based system
    of morality with the nonsense removed - the prohibitions of actions which don't
    violate the rights of other persons - then that problem is avoided. Although I
    suppose that Aleister Crowley was no more a Libertarian than he was a Utilitarian...
    so, \"An it harm none, do as thou wilt\" may not have been sufficiently well specified
    or defined for this kind of criticism."
  created: '2011-02-27 05:54:23'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "<em>Now I can see it clearly goes against open source rules. </em>\r\n\r\nRay,
    these are not open source rules. This is a politicized agenda of freedom extremists
    who constitute only a part of open source community. Linus Torvalds, the creator
    and the principle figure behind Linux, has not once said that he used GPL (the
    \"freedom license\") purely because it enticed organizations to contribute back
    qnd not because he subscribed to the liberty-or-death point of view (quite clearly
    represented here by the throllish OP). In other words there is plenty of sensible
    people using GPL for practical reasons, but there is also a vocal activist community,
    which is mostly notable for being just that - vocal."
  created: '2011-02-27 06:13:45'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@kevintheophile - <cite>Do you mean I can violate the EULAs without harming
    anyone? If so, no, I don't want because I would be arrested, I have to obey and
    to be honest to the Law.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is a judgement call you yourself will
    have to make for yourself. If you are expecting others to make'em for you, you
    will become their tool."
  created: '2011-02-27 12:42:30'
date: '2011-02-21 17:32:28'
title: I'm against the lodging of closed source free-fonts on Ubuntu software center

---
