---
author:
  name: josescaglione
  picture: 112946
body: "I would like to inform you that the Rules of the Letter.2 type design competition
  are now available on the website www.letter2.org\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nJos\xE9
  Scaglione\r\n\r\n-------------------------\r\n\r\nMore information about Letter.2:\r\n\r\nLetter.2
  is the second international competition of type design organized by the Association
  Typographique Internationale (ATypI). The first event of this kind since the founding
  of ATypI  took place in 2001, and it was a contribution to the United Nations Year
  of Dialogue Among Civilizations. The winning entries were exhibited at the United
  Nations Headquarters in New York (USA) and they were featured in the book Language
  Culture Type.\r\n\r\nLetter.2 aims to provide a wide-angled snapshot of the state
  of typeface design around the globe ten years after the 2001 competition, and to
  promote typographic excellence and best professional practices. It also intends
  to raise awareness about the role of typography at encouraging and maintaining cultural
  diversity.\r\n\r\nThe jury will meet in Buenos Aires in October 2011 and will make
  a selection of winning entries based on their design excellence. The winning designs
  will be exhibited at the 2012 ATypI conference. Letter.2 is made possible thanks
  to our platinum sponsors Fontlab, Typekit and Veer, and our gold sponsors Ascender
  Fonts, FontDeck, FontShop, Monotype Imaging, P22, TypeTogether and Webink. Find
  out more about becoming a sponsor or a media partner for this event please visit
  http://letter2.org/sponsors/\r\n\r\nMark your calendar! Submissions open on April
  4, 2011."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026aims to provide a wide-angled snapshot of the state of typeface
    design\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nLimited first to considering only those types that have
    been entered in the competition, and secondly by the taste of the judges (and
    the committee that selects the judges). Thirdly, the vested interests of the sponsors
    may play a role.\r\n\r\nWhat steps is ATypI taking to deal with these issues?
    \r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 16:40:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What \u201Csteps\u201D would you suggest? The first two \u201Cissues\u201D
    are equally true of most juried competitions. I think that seeing who the jury
    members are, and later the variety in the winning entries, should address those
    issues. Feel free to critique who is on the jury if you like: http://letter2.org/jury/\r\n\r\nAs
    for the third, perhaps you can explain what you are implying and how exactly you
    see an issue emerging?\r\n\r\nFrom the sponsors\u2019 POV, of course for those
    who are foundries or distributors, they will be happy if more of \u201Ctheir\u201D
    fonts win. But I'm not clear on what influence mechanism you think they have.
    They are contributing money up front to the competition. The last similar one
    was a decade ago. So, what, the jurors are going to worry about whether the sponsors
    will sponsor again in ten years? Or jurors will worry about whether not voting
    for enough sponsor-connected fonts will cause the sponsor(s) to get upset and
    not sponsor the next ATypI conference or something?\r\n\r\nAs ATypI treasurer,
    I suppose you could think I have a vested interest in keeping the sponsors happy.
    But I have nothing to do with the judging of the contest.\r\n\r\nAs a sponsor,
    even if I was sufficiently lacking in ethics to *want* to swing the competition,
    I don\u2019t think the benefits of \u201Cvictory\u201D would be worth the risk
    of getting caught trying to manipulate the outcome. I suppose for somebody unknown,
    that equation might be different, but I think all the major sponsors have reputations
    to protect.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-02-24 21:13:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>As ATypI treasurer, I suppose you could think I have a vested interest
    in keeping the sponsors happy.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that's a pretty good description
    of vested interest.\r\nWhether a vested interest causes bias is another matter,
    and hence the issues.\r\n\r\n<em>I'm not clear on what influence mechanism you
    think they have.</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said, vested interest. Not the same thing as
    payoff.\r\n\r\n<em>The first two \u201Cissues\u201D are equally true of most juried
    competitions.</em> \r\n\r\nRight. But most Best of the Year juried competitions
    aren't quite so ambitious: \"a wide-angled snapshot of the state of typeface design
    around the globe \u2026 to promote typographic excellence and best professional
    practices \u2026 to raise awareness about the role of typography at encouraging
    and maintaining cultural diversity.\" There are a lot of contradictions in using
    a competition format to advance that agenda.\r\n\r\nThe rules are somewhat disingenuous
    with regards to the role of different scripts (writing systems). Explicitly this
    is a global competition, yet the rules, which are in English, do not break down
    language categories: surely the judges have a vested interest in selecting non-Latin
    types to fulfill the competition's agenda? Why not have specific categories for
    different writing systems? \r\n\r\n<em>What \u201Csteps\u201D would you suggest?
    </em>\r\n\r\nEnough already with the quote mocks."
  created: '2011-02-25 08:56:36'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: My time-to-smack-heads-together sense is tingling...
  created: '2011-02-25 16:53:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hey, I don't have any problem with the competition, and might even enter,
    or end up sponsoring if I make enough of a fool of myself in this thread.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I am critiquing is the far-reaching claim that a competition can produce a \"wide-ranging
    snapshot of the state of typeface design around the globe\".\r\n\r\nA 10-year
    snapshot is oxymoronic, to say the least.\r\n\r\nWill the call for entries also
    be published in other languages and writing systems? It's a bit Anglo/Latin centric
    at the moment."
  created: '2011-02-26 21:04:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I applaud the very modest entry fee* and the sophistication and intelligence
    of the rules. I do have some \"technical\" questions - is this the best place
    to pose them?\r\n\r\n* And thank you for not punishing the winners by charging
    them extra!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-27 14:08:25'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Letter.2 aims to provide a wide-angled snapshot of the state of typeface
    design around the globe [\u2026]</cite>\r\n\r\nGo to one of the major font vendor\u2019s
    sites and you have that very snapshop right away at hand. Using \u201Ccompetition\u201D
    in junction with the aim given, this is nonsense.\r\n\r\nIt would perhaps be more
    honest to just label it an \u201Caward\u201D. If it would be a competition in
    the true sense of the word, there might be something measurable and comparable
    to judge upon. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019ll end up as a promotion gig performed by the pushing
    parties, not more. It won\u2019t tell us much, left aside personal preferences.
    However, everyone willing to enjoy it may do so. In the past, I found this kind
    of \u201Ccompetition\u201D being not worth the trouble."
  created: '2011-02-27 18:31:08'
- author:
    name: josescaglione
    picture: 112946
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI just made a second post about the early bird discount for
    type submission ending soon and I saw that I neglected to keep an eye on this
    thread. My apologies.\r\n\r\nI understand the different concerns raised here and
    wanted to to clarify a couple of issues. Specially those that relate to the organization
    itself.\r\n\r\nI agree that the snapshot we obtain from this event is limited
    to the types that were submitted, to the criteria set for the judging procedure
    and, ultimately, to the opinion of the judges. This is something inherent to all
    competitions and all we could do is to select the jurors and work on the judging
    criteria as carefully as possible. \r\n\r\nRegarding the amount of submissions,
    what we tried to do is to bring down the cost of the entries as much as possible,
    so we make it easier for those designers living or working in lower income places
    of the world. The goal is to get an overview of how type design is evolving around
    the globe. The problem is that this kind of competitions require quite a bit of
    investment, so in order to have these very low entry fees, we need the support
    of sponsors. \r\n\r\nWe kept the same criteria with the sponsorships as we did
    with the entries. Set up the sponsoring opportunities at lower end costs and accepting
    sponsorships in kind and media partnerships with as many organizations or small
    companies as possible. The idea is to have the support of as many people as possible
    instead of relying on a single big contributor. Making this plural and transparent
    is in the very same spirit of the event.\r\n\r\nFinally, we stablished a system
    of digital submissions that guaranties that fonts will remain anonymous throughout
    judging. Non-latin fonts will not be received as a separate category, that's why
    there's no mention in the rules, but in the submission process there's a box to
    indicate the scripts supported by each entry.\r\n\r\nI hope this clarifies at
    least some of the ideas behind the way this is organized.\r\n\r\nKind regards
    to all of you,\r\n\r\nJos\xE9 Scaglione\r\nChairman, Letter.2\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 20:13:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There is no way to make certain that any design competition will be completely
    unbiased, anonymous, fair, or even representative. We all know this and have been
    entering our work regardless for years in assorted competitions.  The only truly
    anonymous entries are from unknown designers and foundries.  Everyone knows who
    did the work on all the more popular foundries is no secret. Does this weigh on
    the judges who might want to place an unknown designer higher than say a Zapf
    or a Frutiger?  Perhaps, but people are human and have failings.  \r\n\r\nThe
    point is, Does this really matter at all?  I don't think so (unless you are a
    winning-is-all- that-matters person).  Judges may differ and some face that is
    found less objectionable to the lot may do better than one with great discrepancy
    in opinion.  We just have to trust all those involved have done their best to
    arrive at a fair choice and move on. ATypI is a reputable organization made up
    of most of us and they don't seem to have any malice in mind.  It is a completely
    voluntary competition with a reasonable entry fee that will surly be judged by
    competent people. There is no punishment for not winning. Those who care to enter
    may and those who don't care to can opt out.  While our individual egos may be
    bruised if not chosen, such is life and not a thing to worry about. The show will
    go on with or without us."
  created: '2011-06-08 21:31:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, that doesn't address my criticism of the hype.\r\n\r\n \"\u2026aims
    to provide a wide-angled snapshot of the state of typeface design\u2026\"\r\n\r\nDoes
    this mean people should enter their crap fonts too, and that the judges will be
    instructed to select a cross-section of both good and bad?\r\n\r\nOK, so it's
    understood that the competition will NOT be wide-angled, because only entries
    will be considered, that it will NOT be a snapshot, because it covers a 10-year
    period, and that it will NOT represent the state of typeface design, because competitions
    only seek the best.\r\n\r\nA reputable organization should tell it like it is,
    not bullshit.\r\n\r\nWhat would be wrong with, \"\u2026aims to showcase the best
    from around the world in the past 10 years\"?"
  created: '2011-06-08 22:42:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick, I admit that the copywriting of the announcement was not the best,
    a bit too full of buzz words and on the grandiose side. Again, these are voluntary
    efforts of members who have other things on their plates and probably are not
    copywriters after all. I also admit that your quick edit to \"\u2026aims to showcase
    the best from around the world in the past 10 years\" would work quite well and
    be better than the original.  I also never had the strong feelings about the text
    that you apparently do.  I guess I kind of read between the lines enough and just
    ignored the more verbose parts to get the gist of their intent.  The wordy text
    they used puts me in scan mode so I just cut to the chase and looked for who,
    what, where, and when.  To me it was no harm no foul.  I guess if we were a copywriters
    guild, I would have expected more ;-)\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2011-06-08 23:48:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hey, it's the Typophile forum.\r\nThere was something about Jos\xE9's original
    post that didn't strike me as quite right.\r\nAt first I thought it was the competition,
    but as you say Chris, it's just a competition, so that leaves the writing.\r\nATypI
    is perhaps trying to position itself apart from other, for profit/promotional
    competitions, by means of suggesting a broader mandate, but that stretching is
    in itself somewhat commercial, so plain speaking would be more befitting an industry
    body.\r\n\r\nProps to ATypI for trying to increase its outreach by lowering the
    entry fee.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 00:28:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And the results are out!\r\nhttp://letter2.org/\r\n\r\nCongrats to the winners,
    and I hope other competitions learn from this success.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-18 05:32:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Wonderful!\r\n\r\nA great step towards world peace, harmony between cultures
    and respect for minorities, through the power of type design, most significant
    of the commercial arts!\r\n\r\nPerhaps the next Very Important Type Design Competition
    could be Readability themed, with judges drawn from the ranks of those most altruistic
    of type designers who have sought to ameliorate the plight of the reading-challenged."
  created: '2011-10-18 18:25:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just because you lost a competition in your early\r\nyears doesn't mean you
    should remain so bitter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-18 20:41:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The fact that I neither enter nor judge competitions is irrelevant.\r\n\r\nMy
    advocacy of accurate, responsible copywriting is not limited to type design competitions.\r\nFor
    instance, earlier today I queried Ralf Herrmann's implication that the chrome
    script style of lettering was primarily an automobile thing:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/86505\r\n(Although
    I didn't point out a couple of \"bad English\" mistakes.)\r\n\r\nAnd I'm forever
    going on about \"its/it's\" and \"complimentary/complementary\". \r\n\r\nHere,
    I'm calling bullshit on ATypI's grandiose PR.\r\nLogic didn't seem to work, so
    now satire.\r\n\r\nDon't you think that promotional copywriting in our industry
    should be reasonable, and without exaggerated claims?"
  created: '2011-10-18 21:21:12'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "I just don't understand a point of making an competition where I'll be the
    judge and my foundry would submit entries and win an prize as an strawberry on
    the top of everything?!? Where is in that a meaning of the word - competition?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I didn't submit my entry and I'm also bitter cause this seems very pointless."
  created: '2011-10-18 21:23:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Note that there are no H&FJ types amongst the winners.\r\nDid they not enter,
    or were their fonts deemed not good enough?\r\nEither way, for the competition
    to tout its \"wide-angled snapshot\" as representing \"the state typeface design
    around the globe\" with no Archer or Gotham is absurd."
  created: '2011-10-18 21:46:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While I think all of the chosen typefaces were very well done and worthy
    of selection, I do find it odd that there were several Helvetica-like grotesk
    examples included when perhaps one would have been more representative of the
    decade.  I also think Gotham would certainly be a solid representative of the
    time.  \r\nAll of my after-the-fact judgements are not meant to reflect on the
    judging.  I am sure it was fair and as impartial as is possible given the situation.
    \ I have no idea what criteria were given to the judges to begin with.  It could
    have been \"choose the best quality 10% of the material submitted or or choose
    the most representative quality types of the decade from the submissions, or whatever.
    \ These competitions are always scrutinized after-the-fact and everyone cannot
    agree on how better to do it next time.  All-in-all, I think the jury did a creditable
    job even though I probably would have made some different choices.  My different
    choices would certainly have met with just as much scrutiny and disapproval as
    anyone else's so I just don't know what we can ever do to satisfy everyones opinions.\r\n\r\n[edit]\r\nI
    have just revisited the winners list.  I don't know what made me think there were
    more than the one (New Haas) helvetican in the list.  Somewhere, my brain departed
    and made me think there were more.  Sorry!!!"
  created: '2011-10-18 22:56:28'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Chris, maybe you had in mind New Rail Alphabet as \u201Chelvetican\u201D."
  created: '2011-10-18 23:09:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Riccardo,\r\nYES!!! That was it!\r\nThe name \"New Rail\" did not signal
    anything to me so I just didn't look at it the second time through."
  created: '2011-10-18 23:21:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I'm calling bullshit on ATypI's grandiose PR.\r\n\r\nIt's a shame you don't
    have the guts to do the same to your chums in NYC.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-18 23:33:30'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: 'Overall I like the results pretty much, in the sense that there are a little
    bit of everything: Classics from the established foundries, new fonts by young
    students, fonts for different languages, etc.'
  created: '2011-10-19 01:59:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>It's a shame you don't have the guts to do the same to your chums in
    NYC.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick has chums in NYC? News to me."
  created: '2011-10-19 03:08:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, one doesn't throw one's peers under the bus.\r\nHowever, there is
    an obligation to hold the large corporations and institutions in our industry
    to account."
  created: '2011-10-19 05:38:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "At best, your perceptions of ATypI, the TDC et alia are highly confounded.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 05:46:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I have no idea what you're talking about, although you seem intent on riling
    me.\r\n\r\nI'll ask you again: Don't you think that promotional copywriting in
    our industry should be reasonable, and without exaggerated claims?\r\n\r\n(Excusing
    <em>Madame Wahler's Lucky Serif Dream Book</em>, of course!)"
  created: '2011-10-19 06:04:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You go back and answer any one of the tricky questions I've asked\r\nyou
    over the years (with candor, not facetious diversions) then I'll\r\nanswer this
    one. I won't be your tool, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 17:16:19'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Winning entries were published over a rather broad range of time, which to
    me, rather dilutes the possibility of them being representative of anything in
    particular.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 17:31:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Which particular question would you like me to answer, Hrant?\r\nI'd be happy
    to give you a candid yes or no."
  created: '2011-10-19 17:57:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The difficulty to me was that there were so many winning entries that were  revivals
    or at least resemblances to type of eras gone by.  I was hoping to see what is
    going on today that is new and untethered to prior centuries.
  created: '2011-10-19 18:01:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That's an interesting observation. I wonder which 50-odd typefaces would have
    been chosen if they'd all been 'of their time' rather than interpretations of
    older stuff (though I do of course love seeing fresh takes on established models).
  created: '2011-10-19 18:08:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I don't believe you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 18:11:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, this appears to be turning into one of our old threads where what
    starts out as a discussion of an issue becomes me defending myself against your
    attempts to besmirch my character.\r\n\r\nI'm not going to defend myself further,
    or retaliate in kind.\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Phew. I was beginning to think it was LARTing time...
  created: '2011-10-19 19:42:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This morning on the ATypI discussion list Viktor Kharyk suggested\r\nthere
    should be a competition* for \"speculative\" (my term) type design.\r\nI think
    that's an awesome idea, and I'd love to see ATypI or SoTA put\r\nsomething like
    that together, because more \"formal\" competitions put\r\ntoo much emphasis on
    polish, and this naturally leads to a promotion\r\nof mainstream precedents.\r\n\r\n*
    Or a curated \"show\" (but with a broad spectrum of curators).\r\n\r\nOf course
    things like Letter.2 would still have an important place.\r\nLike the Olympics
    \"versus\" the X Games, both of which I watch!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 20:59:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" I wonder which 50-odd typefaces would have been chosen if they'd all been
    'of their time'\"\r\n\r\n@Bendy:\r\n\r\nI have no problem with anyone running
    a competition in any way they see fit. I am not proposing that Letter.2 be redone.
    \ I just wish there would be somewhere a competition that really focuses on our
    current time and avoids the previous several hundred years.  I guess the way of
    the world is that no one ever talks about \"what is happening now\" until that
    now is at least 50 or even 100 years old.  With time, we get to only look at the
    chosen remaining remnants that historians or the like have labeled and written
    about.  I guess it is easier to be a Monday Morning Quarterback 50 years after
    the fact than it is to face the live pass-rush of our time while you are making
    your call ;-)\r\n\r\nI propose a new Type  exhibition, or book or, competition
    called \"Now or Never\" where the criteria for entry would be that no design would
    be accepted that was a redo, reference, revival, recapture, reverent look back
    at, recapitulation of, or reconstruction of historic or very oft used forms.  That
    is not to say that we would get all absolutely squeaky clean \"Original\" entries
    because that might be impossible but we would be making an effort to go at least
    in that direction.  This would certainly not exclude renowned and immensely talented
    type designers like Slimbach from entering their finest work.  I am sure our senior
    living members of the type design community are quite capable of stepping away
    from the historic realm and creating brilliant types that are more descriptive
    of the contemporary."
  created: '2011-10-19 21:09:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know that \"polish\" is the problem.  I don't think that there is
    much of a disparity of polish among the material chosen over not chosen.  It seems
    more that we only feel safe saying something is good if it has had at least 50
    years of proven success in the market.\r\n\r\nI would hope to see a genuine attempt
    at showing what is clearly \"Not Old\" rather than what we choose to define as
    \"New\"."
  created: '2011-10-19 21:17:07'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>This morning on the ATypI discussion list Viktor Kharyk suggested\r\nthere
    should be a competition* for \"speculative\" (my term) type design.\r\nI think
    that's an awesome idea, and I'd love to see ATypI or SoTA put\r\nsomething like
    that together,</cite>\r\n\r\nThen I suggest you get to work with the ATypI and
    or SotA and make it happen.\r\n\r\nWhen I saw how typeface design was being mis-judged
    in the TDC Annual Competition, I petitioned the TDC Board and was allowed to create,
    with Paul Shaw, what has become TDC2, the annual Type DIrectors Club Type Design
    Competition. I think it has been successful in providing a yearly glimpse into
    what was going on in type design.\r\n\r\nSo if you think you have a better model,
    stop talking and get moving."
  created: '2011-10-19 21:43:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Way to go, James.
  created: '2011-10-19 22:14:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But anything \"speculative\" is likely to be lacking in polish\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nI
    always polish my experiments before I publish them.\r\nThe latest:\r\nhttp://marketplace.veer.com/fonts/sht0000280#"
  created: '2011-10-19 22:44:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://marketplace.veer.com/fonts/sht0000280#\r\n\r\nUh, that's not exactly
    what I meant by \"speculative\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 22:45:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don't think that there is much of a disparity of\r\n> polish among the
    material chosen over not chosen.\r\n\r\nBut anything \"speculative\" is likely
    to be lacking\r\nin polish, which means it either won't be submitted\r\nor it
    won't be awarded/exposed. We need a channel\r\nthat's receptive to \"rough & tumble\"
    progress.\r\n\r\n> I suggest you get to work with the ATypI and or SotA and make
    it happen.\r\n\r\nYou're reading my mind - in fact I sent an email about\r\nan
    hour and a half ago. On the other hand I don't want\r\nto impose, so I plan to
    let more qualified people lead\r\nthe way, and I could volunteer some logistical
    help.\r\n\r\nOne group I will not approach however is the TDC.\r\nIt doesn't strike
    me as a progressive institution,\r\nplus I don't have the requisite cronyism set
    up.\r\n\r\nSorry for the candor - I know it's scarce in some quarters.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 22:47:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, IMHO it fits the dictionary definition, and in the context of Chris'
    comments on original vs derivative, it's no clone.\r\n(Although perhaps there
    have been some grotesque backslants I'm unaware of.)\r\nIt's primarily a conjecture
    on the use of contextual alternates\u2014there are no other faces that flip-flop
    between character alternates.\r\nAnd it's certainly a financial speculation\u2014defining
    its own niche, compared to your typical sans or script.\r\nWhat did you mean?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 23:02:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant something like Legato, Ambicase or hey, Panoptica!\r\nJust early
    on in the development, so not necessarily polished enough to sell.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-19 23:18:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That may be difficult to assess.\r\nFor many years, when I was working as
    an art director, I would sent typeface proposals to Letraset, and was always turned
    down.\r\nIn retrospect, I suspect the roughness of my comps (following the roughness
    of the advertisement comps in my day job) mitigated against my designs. And now
    in digital culture everything is so slick. And final finish is so important to
    fonts, especially something as subtle as Legato.\r\n\r\nSo perhaps the format
    for conjectural would be just \"Hamburgefons\" \u2014 fully finished/polished,
    but only a few characters.\r\n\r\nBut do people still use that word alone to assess
    a typeface proposal, in this day and age?"
  created: '2011-10-19 23:33:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Speculative\" seems to be a term that I can't find useful in this context.
    \ We may be just thinking along completely different lines. Speculative implies
    that the originator is either unsure about it or just not ready to call it a finished
    product.  To me, it implies rough sketches of a \"possible concept\" rather than
    a ready to use completed item.\r\n\r\nThe typefaces that I would like to see given
    more media play are designed in the current decade but working, ready-for-prime-time
    use today.  The ones I am talking about are at least attempts to be reasonably
    original and not holding the coattails of well established historic models. I
    am after types which answer the question \"What is the best design for real use
    that focusses on the here and now and may at some point be looked back upon by
    competent historians archeologists as being representative of early 21st Century
    work.  When you look at Helvetica, it portrays the zeitgeist of mid to late 20th
    Century reasonably well but is really not what says anything about today (other
    than today, people are too locked in to the past). There are tons of well documented
    scholarly works out there written about incunabula, arts and crafts, \"modern\",
    transitional, oldstyle, classical, what have you.., that you can quite readily
    pinpoint types of their time and show examples of work to prove your case.  No
    body speaks about the real \"today\" though, without a quick segway to historic
    forms.  Are we all so frightened that we cannot possibly measure up to the long-dead
    masters that we deny even the attempt of doing our own stuff? Is it it true that
    \"only dead guys\" had anything to say? Can't we just face our own days problems
    square on and think we must solve them with our own day's thinking and tools?
    We are no more or no less able, talented or intelligent than any other peoples
    of previous time and society.  Why must we so tight-fistedly grip the loin clothes
    of our ancestors?  Our ancestors did not do this but we do.  Are we really totally
    gutless and in awe of the past that we will be known as the Copy Cat era who did
    nothing but borrow from the anointed deity of history?\r\n\r\nWe should be able
    to say, \"This is us, this is what we do now. This is neither an experiment or
    a speculation of what ought to be done now or in the future.  This is our stuff
    as it is and it is just as polished as the Trajan inscription, Renaissance calligraphy,
    Garamond, Caslon,  Didone, Bauhaus, Tschicholdian, Push Pin, Swiss modern, or
    PoMo, and we are not ashamed of it.\""
  created: '2011-10-19 23:55:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That doesn't make sense because old stuff is still useful\r\nhere and now,
    partly because \"users\" don't know it's old.\r\n\r\nWhat's really missing is
    a formal appreciation of the\r\navant garde of type design. We had that in the
    90s,\r\nbut back then it was mostly naive hooliganism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-20 04:13:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\r\nUsers don't know it is old because it is most often still used and talked
    about today.  Users only get a chance to know it if we dare do it, show it, and
    talk about it.\r\n\r\nI did not say \"old stuff\" is not useful now or should
    not be used, I said we already know plenty about old stuff because it is never
    ignored and always praised.  We know next to nothing about \"our era's original
    stuff\" because we don't have the guts to talk about it. The 90s are over, too,
    whatever it was, hooligan or not, is not now. Looking back even only 20 years
    is far easier and safer than looking only at the moment of now.\r\nI don't care
    to be so closed minded as to limit the work to what some may call avant garde
    or to exclude what some may call hooligan work, or naive work.  I would just like
    to see Now Work that is not just reflections of previous Not Now work.  It just
    needs to be a finished usable typeface of respectable enough quality to do its
    job.  Work that would be a kin to 2010-2020 but not pretending to be either \"the
    Future\" or \"the Past\".  Content with itself in the present and unashamed."
  created: '2011-10-20 07:31:14'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>One group I will not approach however is the TDC.\r\nIt doesn't strike
    me as a progressive institution,\r\nplus I don't have the requisite cronyism set
    up.</cite>\r\n\r\ncronyism |\u02C8kr\u014Dn\u0113\u02CCiz\u0259m|\r\nnoun derogatory\r\nthe
    appointment of friends and associates to positions of authority, without proper
    regard to their qualifications.\r\n\r\nAre you calling the TDC and its board and
    members unqualified?"
  created: '2011-10-20 13:28:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not necessarily, but I do feel too much credit is given to people you\r\nalready
    know (like when Alex White won to the chagrin of many observers).\r\nThis is parallel
    to giving too much credit to ideas you already know\r\n(like when Rialto won even
    though it was designed in the wrong year)\r\nwhich is why the TDC is better at
    organizing mainstream/local stuff,\r\nas opposed to what Viktor proposed. Of course
    I could be wrong, but\r\nalmost all the evidence (concrete and nebulous) points
    that way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-20 15:00:02'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@terminal_design - Don''t be so bloody stupid as to get hung up in the letter
    instead of the spirit. He''s not wired into their Old Boys Network, is all.'
  created: '2011-10-20 18:58:08'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I have no idea what you are talking about. Whose Old Boy Network?
  created: '2011-10-20 21:11:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'Honestly...! {must resist going all Snape on him...} Read this: [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Good_ol''_boy_network]].
    Now stop playing these dictionary games! This is not a court of law. All they
    do here is lower your standing.'
  created: '2011-10-21 20:21:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Either way, for the competition to tout its \"wide-angled snapshot\"
    as representing \"the state typeface design around the globe\" with no Archer
    or Gotham is absurd.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is something that the judges discussed.
    There were a number of important types of the past decade that were not submitted,
    but which if they had been would doubtless have been  selected. It would be easy
    enough -- for the judges or anyone else who has been remotely conscious of type
    in the past ten years -- to compile an 'external recognition' list.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think 'wide-angled snapshot' implies exhaustive inclusivity, and I do think the
    selection does provide a meaningful, i.e. interpretable, <em>snapshot</em> of
    what has been going on in the past decade. There are trends which are discernable
    in the selection, especially when compared with the results of the earlier, bukva:raz
    competition. I think that is something it is reasonable to expect of a snapshot,
    and probably the most one can expect of any competition, whose individual results
    are always going to be open to debate and disagreement."
  created: '2011-10-21 22:02:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Hey T\xE9 Boy, go Snape on yourself, what the fuck are you going on about?
    \r\nAnd what the fuck do I care about my standing in a place like this.\r\n\r\nTDC,
    Old Boys Network? You're kidding right? Where does that leave the ATypI?"
  created: '2011-10-22 03:13:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW to me ATypI has never felt like that at all. It seems quite\r\ntransparent
    and open, and even somebody like me can feel welcome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-22 05:26:53'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And my experience with the ATypI has been exactly the opposite.
  created: '2011-10-22 13:17:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "All I know is that yesterday Amazon announced that they are moving to HTML5/CSS3
    for their new Fire tablet and leaving their Mobi format behind. E-Pub? Well, it's
    easy enough to convert to HTML5 but for fresh stuff, don't bother, the format's
    dead as a doornail.\r\n\r\nAnd I know that the web fonts for the Lettering2 website
    - from Adobe Typekit, ahhh, it feels good to say \"Adobe Typkekit\" because it's
    sooooo much easier to rip Adobe a new one - they suck. (Not Adobe, the fonts.)\r\n\r\nAnd
    know that we're all set to print as many books and posters and billboards and
    roadsigns as we need with these gorgeous typefaces that win contests.\r\n\r\n\"Requisite
    Crony\" - didn't they have a hit in the late sixties?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-22 14:13:03'
date: '2011-02-23 13:53:18'
node_type: forum
title: Letter.2 type design competition

---
