---
author:
  name: ravells
body: "Hi all, I'm a long time lurker of the site. \r\n\r\nA few nights ago I got
  into a discussion about whether the words 'font' and 'typeface' are entirely interchangeable
  or whether there is a difference between the two. \r\n\r\nOnline dictionaries suggest
  that they have exactly the same meaning along the lines of: a complete set of letters
  and numbers in one size and style, used for printing or for computer documents\r\n\r\nbut
  I wondered whether that was the end of the story?\r\n\r\nMany thanks in advance,\r\n\r\nRavs "
comments:
- author:
    name: commonprojects
    picture: 115799
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/14701#comment-84393
  created: '2011-02-23 12:27:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: http://fontfeed.com/archives/font-or-typeface/
  created: '2011-02-23 14:12:50'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: Thanks Commonprojects! I did try a search before I posted, but the two words
    are so common on this site that there were too many returned results to sift through.
  created: '2011-02-23 14:18:03'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "As the articles point out, the words have different meanings. However in
    common usage by the general public, the words are often used interchangeably.
    \r\n\r\nA few years ago I heard a dictionary editor discuss this subject and his
    observation was that \"font\" was gradually replacing \"typeface\" in common usage
    because when 2 words have a similar meaning the public tends to use the shorter
    word."
  created: '2011-02-23 16:26:36'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "Thanks very much for the link eliason.\r\n\r\nJames, from my reading of the
    links posted, they are presently interchangeable, but there are (sensible) moves
    afoot in the industry to create a distinction: font = vehicle of delivery and
    typeface = look/feel. It will be interesting to see if that distinction becomes
    the accepted norm.\r\n\r\nAs things stand though, if one were to say, \"what a
    lovely font!\" Most people would understand that to refer to the look and feel
    rather than than the vehicle of delivery.\r\n\r\nA friend of mine who is a law
    professor in the US mentioned in passing that under US IP law, a font is defined
    as a sub-species of a typeface, so it seems that there yet other distinctions
    out there although those would probably only be ever used for the purpose of statutory
    interpretation.\r\n\r\nInteresting observation by the dictionary editor, thanks!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 16:51:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Judging from many of the type i.d. requests on Typophile, it seems that the
    word \"font\" in the minds of many in the general public includes not only typefaces,
    but lettering, handwriting, calligraphy, stone carved letters--in short, any kind
    of letter no matter how it was made. \r\n\r\nMy own theory is that it's the fault
    of the ubiquitous \"Font\" menu. The average person, with no knowledge of typography,
    sees this menu called \"Font\", looks at its contents, sees different styles of
    letters, and concludes that \"font\" must mean \"letter style\". Thus, when they
    see some style of letter (with no idea how it was made), they come here and ask
    what \"font\" it is."
  created: '2011-02-23 17:25:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is Bodoni a typeface?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThere are other difficulties: \r\ncharacter/letter/glyph\r\ncomplement/compliment\r\n\r\nEspecially
    between common meanings and technical meanings:\r\nstyle/style\r\nroman/roman\r\nmodern/modern\r\ngrotesque/grotesque\r\n\r\nAnd
    even between technical meanings:\r\nscript/script\r\n\r\nWhen speaking technically,
    it always helps to qualify one's terms."
  created: '2011-02-23 18:09:45'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "Then again, I wonder if there's any real purpose in having a distinction
    between the two words. Printing presses have gone the way of the dinosaur (except
    for a tiny number of specialist printers), so there is only one significant font
    (in the sense of 'a physical embodiment of a collection of letters', or 'a delivery
    mechanism')which is the medium of computer files; for the life of me, I can't
    think of any other significant media in which collections of letters and symbols
    are stored, can anyone think of any?\r\n\r\nIf that's right, and it's taken for
    granted that all fonts are computer files, I suppose you might say, 'That's a
    lovely typeface, could you email me the computer file font [as opposed to the
    lead type font]?', but wouldn't it be easier to say, 'That's a lovely font, could
    you email it to me?'?\r\n\r\nlol, never thought I'd get into these waters when
    I asked the question.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 18:26:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Mark I think you're right, the "font" menu label has influenced folks' use
    of that word.
  created: '2011-02-23 19:03:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026it's taken for granted that all fonts are computer files\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    they aren't.\r\nLetterpress is not extinct.\r\n\r\nThat's not the point, however.\r\nA
    typeface may be considered as a family of fonts, sharing the same stylistic genes.\r\nFor
    instance, Helvetica is a typeface, comprising fonts such as Helvetica Bold and
    Helvetica 67.\r\nA font cannot be comprised of fonts, that doesn't make sense.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 19:38:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What Nick said.\r\n\r\nIn essence, there is a difference between the lay-person
    usage (font=typeface) and the professional usage.\r\n\r\nI did a survey a couple
    of years ago, and confirmed that among folks who work with fonts for their living,
    there is a significant difference between the terms:\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/02/font-name/\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/04/font-terms-survey-results/\r\n\r\nThe
    Wikipedia entries for typeface and font accurately reflect the way these words
    are usually used by professionals in this field (though this of course could change,
    as is the way with Wikipedia):\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typeface\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Font\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 21:03:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is what I occasion to say on the subject on the ATypI discussion list
    last month:\r\n\r\nI think there is a fairly direct parallel between a metal font
    as a set of sorts, a hotmetal font as a set of matrices, a photo font as a disc
    or strip of negative or positive images, a dry transfer font as a sheet of rubdown
    images, and a digital font as a collection of outline or bitmap glyphs. The principle
    difference is scaleability: a font of metal type, a set of hotmetal matrices or
    a dry transfer sheet are size-specific, whereas photo and digital fonts are scaleable.
    In all cases, the design that we think of as the <em>typeface</em> can be extracted
    from the particular implementation as a font, most obviously by being implemented
    in a different technology. Ergo, regardless of the technology there is a need
    to be able to distinguish, in thinking or speaking about some aspects of type,
    the typeface design from the font implementation."
  created: '2011-02-23 21:56:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There are four kinds of typeface:\r\n\r\n1. A commercial product which is
    a collection of fonts. \r\n2. A commercial product where there is only one font
    in the typeface.\r\n3. A design which may be considered independently of particular
    commercial products, i.e. one which has been implemented by more than one foundry
    and/or in more than one medium, e.g. Hobo.\r\n4. A design which has been reinterpreted
    in many ways, often quite different, to the extent that it is a communal archetype\u2014typographers
    \"know\" what its general characteristics are, independent of any particular implementation.
    Bodoni, Garamond, Caslon, Jenson, Century, &c."
  created: '2011-02-23 22:13:34'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "Thank you everyone for continuing to humour my geekish fascination with the
    subject.\r\n\r\n<strong> \"A font cannot be comprised of fonts, that doesn't make
    sense.\" <strong>\r\n\r\nBut don't people call a collection of fonts of the same
    typeface in different styles 'Font Families'?\r\n\r\nNick and Thomas, your distinction
    between typefaces and fonts makes much more sense to me than those suggested by
    the font-feed article posted by eliason (3rd post in this thread).  I must speak
    to my professor friend again, because I have sneaking suspicion that your definition
    is probably the same as that used by US IP statute(s). Sadly I don't know which
    ones they are as I don't have access to the material - but he did say that fonts
    were treated as a subspecies of typefaces. \r\n\r\nSaying that a font represents
    the delivery mechanism and using the CD / Song analogy, while accurate, to my
    mind almost makes the word 'font' redundant, because the collection type to which
    it once referred is now nearly redundant. I take the point about letterpress being
    in existence, but it's use is not significant when compared to fonts stored as
    computer files. A font is wider than a descriptor of the delivery system, whether
    it be computer files or metal type, it is also a descriptor of the typeface (that's
    what threw me).\r\n\r\nI find it quite subtle, because the definition is not entirely
    Cartesian but what I have learned is that:\r\n\r\nA font is a collection of letters
    and/or symbols of a particular typeface created, stored and intended to be used
    together.\r\n\r\nA font family is a collection of fonts of varying styles based
    on the same typeface.\r\n\r\nA typeface is a descriptor applied to distinguish
    the appearance of font (or font family), usually by name (e.g. Helvetica).\r\n\r\nPutting
    this hypothesis to the test, I might say:\r\n\r\nHelvetica is a typeface. (Here
    I am referring to the style of letter-form which makes Helvetica what it is).\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    is a font. (Here I am referring to a collection of letters and symbols which comprise
    Helvetica).\r\n\r\nHelvetica Regular bold and Helvetica Regular Italic are all
    part of the Helvetica font family. (Self explanatory).\r\n\r\nSo:\r\n\r\nI would
    download a Helvetica font.\r\nI would prefer a Helvetica typeface over a Comic
    Sans typeface.\r\nIf I stole your font, I might have downloaded it without your
    permission.\r\nIf I stole your typeface, I might have created a font in a very
    similar style.\r\n\r\nAm I getting there?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-02-23 22:15:01'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: Why does it have to be a commercial product?
  created: '2011-02-23 22:18:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right, it doesn't have to be.
  created: '2011-02-23 22:31:09'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "I'm sorry, you were being helpful and my answer may have come across as glib
    (but I had to leave my desk for few minutes).\r\n\r\nI like the words Archetype
    and design when applied to typefaces - it implies that a typeface is a set of
    rules by which a font is created. \r\n\r\nSo revising my working definition of
    typeface:\r\n\r\nA typeface describes one or more fonts which follow a recognised
    set of visual rules.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 22:34:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A typeface describes one or more fonts which follow a recognised set
    of visual rules.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's putting the cart before the horse.\r\nI design
    typefaces, not fonts.\r\nIn other words, I will have an idea for a typeface before
    I put pen to paper (or stylus to tablet, to use those rather quaint terms).\r\nSo
    I should revise my category (3), changing i.e. to e.g."
  created: '2011-02-23 22:49:47'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "Crumbs, quite right.\r\n\r\nSo...A typeface is a set of visual rules from
    which fonts are created? "
  created: '2011-02-23 22:52:32'
- author:
    name: ravells
  body: "I just want to collect the definitions in one place again:\r\n\r\n<strong>
    A font <strong> is a collection of letters and/or symbols of a particular typeface
    created, stored and intended to be used together.\r\n\r\n<strong> A font family
    <strong> is a collection of fonts of varying styles based on the same typeface.\r\n\r\n<strong>
    A typeface <strong> is a set of visual rules from which fonts are created.\r\n\r\nExamples:\r\n\r\n-
    I like that typeface! \r\n(I like the visual rules applied to create that font).
    You would not say, 'I like that font'. \r\n\r\n- x and y are fonts which are all
    variants of the same typeface.\r\n\r\n- I would download a Helvetica font.\r\n\r\n-
    I would prefer a Helvetica typeface over a Comic Sans typeface.\r\n\r\n- If I
    stole your font, I might have downloaded it without your permission.\r\n\r\n-
    If I stole your typeface, I might have created a font in a very similar style
    (because I used the same rules to create the font)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-23 23:08:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "One point that has come up in this discussion implies the need to be careful
    about the distinction involving a <em>third</em> term.\r\n\r\nBodoni is a <em>typeface</em>.\r\n\r\nIt
    is available in several <em>weights</em>, the roman, italic, and bold.\r\n\r\nYou
    can obtain a <em>font</em> of one of those weights in various forms. While I think
    that Kelsey has closed up shop, one type of font would consist of, for example,
    4 pounds of a lead-antimony alloy, with perhaps 26 \"a\"s, 36 \"e\"s, and so on
    and so forth. Another might be a Type 1, TrueType, or OpenType file to enable
    a computer to print in a given weight of a given typeface.\r\n\r\nI'm not quite
    sure, though, that  a set of matrices to be placed in a Monotype matrix-case,
    or a disk with images of the characters upon it to be placed in a phototypesetter,
    was ever called a font, and so the general meaning of \"means of delivery\" depends
    on the recent usage in connection with font files.\r\n\r\nAnd, of course, there
    is a question of whether Bodoni Book should be considered another typeface or
    a weight of Bodoni."
  created: '2011-02-24 00:03:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A typeface is a set of visual rules from which fonts are created.</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    it has visual themes (rather than rules).\r\n\r\nIt's a design system of readably
    ergonomic, culturally expressive, harmoniously styled glyph shapes (including
    alphabets, numbers, and punctuation), a pattern for rendering linguistic character
    encodings in fonts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-24 01:27:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Multiple Masters are what, typefaces, or fonts? I've always taken a particular
    instance of a Multiple Master as a font, the MM itself as a typeface. Though MM
    are formally dead, Adobe's OTF Families that have titling, subhead, and caption
    variants are instances of a multiple master.\r\n\r\nIt was similar with photocomp.
    You could purchase many fonts as an 8-point master, a 12-point master, and an
    18-point master. Also true of the Linotron 202 (which some consider digital, some
    photocomp)."
  created: '2011-02-24 02:45:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Myriad MM is a font. Myriad MM italic is another font. There were two fonts
    in the MM implementation of the Myriad typeface. There are 40 in the OpenType
    implementation.\r\n\r\nThose of us who still use MM technology in typeface design
    are able to have fewer upstream fonts (in MM form) to make it easier to create
    more downstream fonts from instances of the MM font.\r\n\r\nThis is a great example
    of why, when dealing with this stuff on a professional level, it is really useful
    to have clear definitions.\r\n\r\nOf course, with the MM technology, the really
    interesting question is how many masters did you have to create, and how that
    compared to the number of output fonts in the end, rather than how many MM font
    files those masters were stored in. So for example, Hypatia Sans had two masters
    for six fonts (plus a large handful of alternates for the black master, to make
    the black weight work for both interpolation and on its own). Then double that
    all for the italics.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-02-24 21:24:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This is a great example of why, when dealing with this stuff on a professional
    level, it is really useful to have clear definitions.\r\n\r\nWe'll, in that case
    we should say a typeface is a virgin, a font is a whore, and a MM is a pimp's
    wife, right?"
  created: '2011-02-25 10:45:58'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "The 500 or so type professionals in the world, and let's say another 1000
    typographic enthusiasts, are the only ones who are keeping the font / typeface
    terminology distinction alive. \r\n\r\nThe original Macintosh called it the \"Font\"
    menu, not the \"Typeface\" menu, and accelerated the merging of the terms. In
    the bitmap-font era, I guess one could've argued in favor of either term, but
    Font was shorter, and that mattered when you only had 512 pixels across. The arrival
    of outline fonts diluted the distinction further. (If a \"font\" is a specific
    style and size of a \"typeface,\" what does it mean when all the sizes and styles
    are derived from one master file?)\r\n\r\nFor nonprofessionals, \"font\" is the
    prevalent term and embraces both meanings. \"What font does the New York Times
    use?\" \"Imperial.\" \"What font should I use for my report \u2014\_11 point Bembo,
    or 10 point Adobe Caslon?\" And so on. Lexicographer Bryan Garner agrees, saying
    that \"Technology has changed the meaning of this term \u2026\_<i>font</i> most
    often denotes a whole family of styles that can be printed at almost any size.\"
    (Garner's Modern American Usage, 3rd Ed. at 364). \r\n\r\nIndeed, I have always
    found that attempts to teach nonprofessionals the term \"typeface\" usually results
    in the response \"oh, you mean a font?\" If folks get the conceptual distinction,
    that's what counts. It doesn't really matter if they want to use the same word.
    Let's also note that typography pros muddy the waters by sometimes using the terms
    interchangeably \u2014\_I mean, why is it the Font Bureau, not the Typeface Bureau?
    Why is it FontShop not TypefaceShop?\r\n\r\nUnder this common usage, YES, a font
    (meaning 1) can be made of fonts (meaning 2). If you dislike the idea that \"font\"
    can mean more than one thing, consider the term \"type.\" When I worked in a lettepress
    shop, \"type\" was stuff made of metal and stored in cases. But we also say \"type
    designer,\" using \"type\" to mean \"typeface.\" And then we have companies like
    Storm Type Foundry, which makes and sells fonts, so I guess \"type\" means \"font\"
    in that context. So \"type\" can mean at least three different things.\r\n\r\nI
    predict that \"typeface\" is on its way to becoming merely an important-sounding
    synonym for the popular term \"font,\" like \"physician\" for \"doctor.\" "
  created: '2011-02-26 01:10:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>The 500 or so type professionals in the world \u2026 are the
    only ones who are keeping the font / typeface terminology distinction alive.</em>\r\n\r\nSure,
    because they are the people for whom the distinction is meaningful. Many professions
    employ specialised vocabulary usage that is irrelevant to the needs of lay people."
  created: '2011-02-26 06:20:54'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>Sure, because they are the people for whom the distinction is meaningful.
    Many professions employ specialised vocabulary usage that is irrelevant to the
    needs of lay people.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe conceptual distinction is meaningful and
    relevant to lay people. They just use the same word for both ideas. Compare <em>book,</em>
    a term that embraces a similar pair of meanings: \"my brother wrote a book\" and
    \"my brother bought a book.\" In the first usage, <em>book</em> means a text,
    which might be stored in a word-processing file. In the second usage, <em>book</em>
    means a specific instantiation of that text for a reader. (And \"I bought my brother's
    book\" is an ambiguous sentence without further context.) \r\n\r\nThe professional-necessity
    argument for having two terms would be more persuasive if type professionals a)
    agreed on the specific distinction between the terms (as this thread shows, they
    don't) and b) used the terms consistently (they don't). \r\n\r\nSo to go back
    to the OP's question, I'd say that <em>font</em> and <em>typeface</em> mean the
    same thing, unless you're talking to type professionals, who reserve the right
    to use <em>typeface</em> to mean something narrower than <em>font</em>.\r\n\r\nBecause
    I frequently discuss typography with nonprofessionals, I've mostly purged <em>typeface</em>
    from my vocabulary, without negative side effects. "
  created: '2011-02-26 16:10:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'As I understand it, it''s ''typeface'' in the abstract and ''font'' in the
    concrete. Or, as someone put it: "A font is a typeface with its hard hat on."'
  created: '2011-02-26 16:35:33'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "In the old days (metal), you'd by a typeface in different sizes and weights.
    The individuals sizes and weights were \"fonts\", the collective was a \"typeface.\"\r\n\r\nOn
    that analogy, a Multiple Master -- e.g. the roman (which may include the \"bold\"),
    is a typeface. Instances are fonts. The italic MM is a different typeface, again,
    instances are fonts.\r\n\r\nThis runs contrary to Thomas' usage, but makes good
    sense to me."
  created: '2011-02-26 16:54:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I mean, why is it the Font Bureau, not the Typeface Bureau? Why is it
    FontShop not TypefaceShop?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause they sell font licences, not typeface
    licences.\r\n\r\nThe choice between \"type\" and \"font\" in a business name may
    well be based on which sounds better.\r\n\r\nFor instance, \"Shinntype\" is more
    snappy than \"Shinnfonts\", although I do occasionally refer to the firm as Shinn-O-Fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    professional-necessity argument for having two terms would be more persuasive
    if type professionals a) agreed on the specific distinction between the terms
    (as this thread shows, they don't) and b) used the terms consistently (they don't).</em>\r\n\r\nSurely
    the important thing is that professionals recognize that there IS a distinction.
    Arguing over such minutiae is what professionals do best.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI'm
    contributing to preserving the distinction, beyond the 1,500 figure, which I believe
    is an underestimate.\r\nOver several years I've taught it to over 100 design students
    in the type design component of a design degree/diploma, at three design schools
    in Toronto, as have my peers teaching the same and similar courses.\r\n\r\nI also
    attempt to explain the difference between a character and a glyph. Then I come
    to the space character\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-26 18:38:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since it is generally accepted that Times Roman Italic, and Times Roman Bold
    belong to the Times Roman typeface, I think that it's necessary to include <strong>weight</strong>
    along with <strong>typeface</strong> and <strong>font</strong> as technical terms
    with specific meanings that should be used carefully.\r\n\r\nWhat about optically-adjusted
    versions of a typeface?\r\n\r\nAdobe sells Times Ten as a completely separate
    typeface from its regular Times Roman.\r\n\r\nSome fonts use multiple master technology
    to automatically choose between different masters depending on the size of type
    you use. This is analogous to the situation with metal type, where, when you ordered
    a font of Century Expanded from ATF, you got the optical adjustments appropriate
    to the size you ordered. (Since type was generally used for letterpress printing,
    instead of creating lithography masters, this was appropriate; it wasn't likely
    to be optically reduced or enlarged.)\r\n\r\nAnd some typefaces are sold with
    different optically-adjusted versions in a common package, but in separate font
    files. So they're packaged like different weights - and, depending on how those
    font files are internally labelled, that may also be also how they will show up
    in a word processor menu.\r\n\r\nAre optically-adjusted versions of a typeface...
    different typefaces, different weights of a typeface, or intrinsic parts of a
    single weight of a typeface? The answer, of course, is that they're none of those:
    they're <em>optically-adjusted versions of a typeface</em>. Because they're not
    <em>really</em> any of those other three alternatives, it may be most appropriate
    or convenient to package them in any of the three ways typically used.\r\n\r\nI
    would also say that small capitals are a case, while titling is a weight."
  created: '2011-02-26 21:34:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>I'd say that font and typeface mean the same thing, unless you're
    talking to type professionals, who reserve the right to use typeface to mean something
    narrower than font.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, I'd be more inclined to say that font
    means something narrower than typeface."
  created: '2011-02-26 21:53:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Quadibloc: <em>Since it is generally accepted that Times Roman Italic, and
    Times Roman Bold belong to the Times Roman typeface...</em>\r\n\r\nNo, they belong
    to the same <em>typeface family.</em>\r\n\r\nA typeface is an individual format-independent
    design. Ergo, all variant styles, weights and size-specific <em>designs</em> are
    distinct typefaces. They are grouped into families of related typefaces. They
    are implemented in fonts, which are sets of glyphs in particular formats or technologies.\r\n\r\nI
    have spent a lot of time thinking about this nomenclature, and it is the only
    one in which each term means one specific thing and not anything else, and hence
    the only one that is useful for analytical discussion. Everyday conversation of
    the 'Hey, pass me that hittie-thing, I need to bang a nail' variety does not require
    such precise usage."
  created: '2011-02-26 22:00:15'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@all\r\n\r\nRemember well:\r\nThe word <em>typeface</em> is impossible to
    translated into French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish. It doesn't exist in these
    neo-Latin languages. To replace the word <em>typeface</em> in French, Italian,
    Portuguese and Spanish is the word <em>font</em>. \r\n\r\nFont in Portuguese is
    <em>fonte</em>, which means literally <em>source</em>. Font in Spanish is <em>fuente</em>,
    which means literally <em>fountain</em> and <em>source</em>.\r\n\r\nEver in French,
    the word \"font\" and \"fonte\" don't exist, the correct word is \"police\", which
    means literally \"police\" as in English, according the Lingoes dictionary, beyond
    the word \"font\".\r\n\r\nAnd in Italian, the words \"fonte\" and \"fonti\" don't
    exist either, the real words are <em>tipo di caratteri</em> which means literally
    \"characters type\" and <em>carattere di lettera</em> which means literally \"letter
    character\".\r\n\r\nIt's impossible to translate the word <em>typeface</em> to
    other languages because this translation doesn't exist, but if you insist, here
    are the translations;\r\n\r\nTYPEFACE, beyond the Lingoes dictionary:\r\nIn French:
    <em>oeil d'un caract\xE8re, style de police, configuration de base des lettres
    selon les police</em>\r\n\r\n\"Oeil d'un caract\xE8re\" means literally \"character
    eye\", \"style de police\" means \"font style\".\r\n\r\nin Italian: <em>forma
    di base di un carattere</em> (means \"base form of a character)\r\n\r\nin Portuguese:
    <em>forma de fonte, forma b\xE1sica de letras conforme a fonte</em> (means \"font
    syle/form, basic form/style of letters according the font\")\r\n\r\nin Spanish:
    car\xE1cter (character), tipogr\xE1fia (typography)\r\n\r\nIf you think these
    translations are worng, search for the translations and the dictionaries of neo-Latin
    languages. \r\n\r\nIf still wrong, in neo-Latin languages, you must replace \"typeface\"
    by the word \"font\" which exists in all these neo-Latin languages."
  created: '2011-02-27 00:00:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>you must replace \"typeface\" by the word \"font\" which exists in
    all these neo-Latin languages.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn Italian, neither one exists as
    single word. \r\nGiambattista Bodoni, for one, wasn\u2019t worried."
  created: '2011-02-27 01:32:39'
- author:
    name: kevintheophile
  body: "@riccard0\r\n\r\n<cite>In Italian, neither one exists as single word.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    these words don't exist, when you speak of a font or a typeface, you can call
    it <em>tipo di carattere</em> or <em>carattere di lettera</em>.\r\n\r\nWhen I
    come to <em>Firenze</em>, a famous city and mother of arts, if I walk and I find
    an add the which has a glad font (= a group of styles) mixed italic and bold <em>\xE0
    la</em> Italian that is under the restaurant full of laughing and glad people
    in <em>piazza</em>... would I ask to the restaurant manager in Italian: <em>Mi
    piace quel <strong>tipo di carattere</strong>, \xE8 bellissimo, proprietario,
    dove hai comprato questo <strong>tipo di carattere</strong>?</em>?\r\n\r\nI ask
    myself: Gl'italiani sanno che cosa \xE8 la parola \"tipo di carattere\"?"
  created: '2011-02-27 02:33:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\nI agree that the distinction you refer to as existing between
    a \"typeface\" and a \"typeface family\" is real, and needs to be preserved in
    order to have accurate terminology.\r\n\r\nThe only way in which I disagree with
    you is that I believe that existing usage gives the word \"typeface\" the meaning
    which you express by \"typeface family\".\r\n\r\nThe meaning which you assign
    to \"typeface\", on the other hand, makes both weights and optically-adjusted
    versions into distinct typefaces, so it is indeed clear and unambiguous. I don't
    think there is an existing term in typography with that meaning.\r\n\r\nAnd I
    suppose that using \"typeface family\" and \"typeface\" is superior to inventing
    a new term, and, say, using \"typeface\" and \"shape-collection\" as the terms
    for the two things. But if the existing usage of typeface is not possible to change,
    I fear that might be what has to be done. (I suppose \"shape-collection\" might
    sound better if we borrowed the German-language version of it, or a similar term.)"
  created: '2011-02-27 05:47:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Jh>Many professions employ specialised vocabulary usage that is irrelevant
    to the needs of lay people.\r\n\r\nbut not this profession... this profession
    employ-ED relevant vocabulary. But someone came along and stole hints, pixels,
    points, variations, leading, font, and even typography, slapped new meanings or
    new words on all of it, and then presented that to lay people instead, just in
    time for lay people to become confused by the thousands, soon, by the hundreds
    of thousands. :)\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-28 10:32:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Oh, wow. A test post for spam which has spam keywords stuck in the middle
    of a verbatim quote from an earlier post in this thread, so that it looks like
    an on-topic post.\r\n\r\nEvidently, it's just too easy to register for this forum."
  created: '2011-03-01 06:45:27'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '{The Icelander gives the Canuck a flat stare.} Really?'
  created: '2011-03-01 18:02:19'
date: '2011-02-23 12:24:33'
node_type: forum
title: Do the words 'font' and 'typeface' mean exactly the same thing?

---
