---
author:
  name: sevag
  picture: 120891
body: "Dear All,\r\n\r\nI'm a design student and today evening, while out with friends
  we had a discussion about fashion, graphic design, dance and whether this disciplines
  can be considered to be art and if so, then why? After all what is art? \xB6A friend
  underlined that \"everything around us is art\"; while we are taught that a work
  of art not necessary has to have a function, nor it has to be understood. From another
  point of view can a gadget that was created for a specific task, without bearing
  aesthetics values be considered a work of art? Then again we have philosophers like
  David Hume who wrote that \"beauty in things exists merely in the mind which contemplates
  them.\" \xB6I'm in a dilemma and would like to know what are the attitudes of other
  creatives on this topic.\r\n\r\n\r\nYours,\r\nSB  "
comments:
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "anything beautiful created by human beings is art.  period.\r\n\r\nthe golden
    gate is art.  a threaded bolt and its nut are art.\r\nthe mona lisa is art.  the
    smiley face.  and the nike swoosh.\r\n\r\nthe difficult question is \"what makes
    something beautiful?\"\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-27 00:46:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> fashion, graphic design, dance and whether \r\n> this disciplines can be
    considered to be art\r\n\r\nIt's a complex subject and you'll hear different opinions.
    But in terms of graphic design, there is some overlap with the art world but there
    are also many differences, including the fundamental goals.  \r\n\r\n\u2022\_The
    artist is concerned with self expression; the designer is concerned with communicating
    info on behalf of a client. \r\n\r\n\u2022\_The artist often picks his (or her)
    own projects, but the graphic designer receives specific assignments from clients.\r\n\r\n\u2022\_The
    artist usually works alone; the designer often works as part of a team with writers,
    photographers, illustrators, printers, etc\r\n\r\n\u2022\_The artist doesn't want
    anyone tampering with their artistic vision; the designer routinely makes revisions
    based on client feedback. \r\n\r\n\u2022 The artist hopes their work will be saved
    and treasured; the designer's work is usually more short term and most things
    you design will end up in the trash after they're used. (In fact one of my professors
    liked to show a picture of a trash can and say, \"no matter how good your work
    is, most of it will end up here, and if you can't live with that you're going
    into the wrong profession\"\r\n\r\n\u2022 The artist can legitimately say that
    they don't care what anyone thinks of their art, but the designer's work is a
    failure (at least to some extent) if the intended audience doesn't understand
    the message they were hired to communicate.\r\n\r\nNow you can certainly think
    of exceptions to all of those points, and there are many graphic designers who
    are talented artists, but in general art and design are different in many ways."
  created: '2011-02-27 01:08:27'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "\u201CArt is anything you can get away with\u201D"
  created: '2011-02-27 01:35:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Julian Stallabrass (<em>Art Lite</em>) was interested in this question, with
    regards to the sensational, Turner Prize winning \"Brit Art\" of Damien Hirst
    &c., which, of course, defied the traditional descriptors (that, after all is
    what modern artists do, redefine art). He came to the conclusion that no objective
    descriptions were possible of the art/not art variety, and the only thing the
    art works had in common was that they were all created by people who had been
    to art school.\r\n\r\nMy typefaces are art (I went to art school).\r\n\r\nSome
    typefaces have recently been \"acquired\" by the Museum of Modern Art, although
    that institution has yet to describe them in proper artspeak."
  created: '2011-02-27 03:48:10'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "I greatly disagree with Nick Shinn's definition, which is a fairly universal
    one of you ask the top tier of art professionals - it places all the political
    power over the definition of aesthetics in the hands of powerful institutions,
    where art schools (and if not art schools then museums, galleries etc.) are the
    sole arbiters of what is art or not.\r\n\r\nThere's a whole lot of different art
    definitions going on, the classic (and well-deservedly savaged) one of which is
    Kant's, who first made the distinction of Form (ie. Art) and Function being two
    different and opposing forces, thus art being what didn't add directly to function.
    By that definition, of course, graphic design is generally not art, and type design
    practically never is.\r\n\r\nMy own take: art is an expression of a thought that
    cannot be expressed in words alone. If your idea cannot be described in speech,
    and it keeps eluding efforts to precisely pin it down with words, then it's art.
    :)"
  created: '2011-02-27 13:10:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/76016#comment-450167
  created: '2011-02-27 13:18:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It's art if I say so.
  created: '2011-02-27 14:09:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@bowerbird:\r\n<cite>anything beautiful created by human beings is art.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    about a baby?\r\n\r\nOf course, there, one can argue about the meaning of \"created\",
    and swiftly descend into theology.\r\n\r\nHow about this as a closer attempt at
    a definition:\r\n\r\nArt is that which is designed, shaped, or crafted by human
    beings, with the intent of making it beautiful, expressive, or meaningful.\r\n\r\nThat,
    at least, excludes that which exists due to human action, but the beauty of which
    is incidental to any human action involved - and allows for art that might be
    disturbing or shocking instead of beautiful, but which has \"something to say\"."
  created: '2011-02-27 18:40:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I greatly disagree with Nick Shinn's definition\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    is that possible, as I didn't give it?\r\n(I noted an observation by Julian Stallabrass.)\r\n\r\nSure,
    I said that my typefaces are art, but that isn't a definition either.\r\n\r\n<em>It's
    art if I say so.</em>\r\n\r\n'When I use a word,' Humpty Dumpty said, in rather
    a scornful tone, 'it means just what I choose it to mean \u2014 neither more nor
    less.'\r\n'The question is,' said Alice, 'whether you can make words mean so many
    different things.'\r\n'The question is,' said Humpty Dumpty, 'which is to be master
    \u2014 that's all.'\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-27 20:38:56'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>anything beautiful created by human beings is art. period.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>the
    golden gate is art. a threaded bolt and its nut are art.\r\nthe mona lisa is art.
    the smiley face. and the nike swoosh.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>the difficult question
    is \"what makes something beautiful?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat an absurd definition!\r\n\r\nArt
    is not necessarily beautiful. But if, would the explosion of a fusion bomb, which
    looks beautiful, be also art? Or a photo taken from the explosion of a fusion
    bomb? Neither nor! And if the main aspect of art is beauty, why is it relevant
    then, that it was created by a human? The question \u201CWho has made it?\u201D
    should be unimportant for the viewer/smeller/taster/listener/toucher. With regard
    to that question it\u2019s enough, if you can affirm, that the questionable object
    could have been created not just by chance. In other words, if you run a computer
    program, that unintelligently creates one trillion images, from which one exactly
    looks like the Mona Lisa, it is as good as the Mona Lisa.\r\n\r\nIn case of typefaces
    they mostly have the function to transmit concrete information. If these typefaces
    would be a kind of projection surface for mind and soul of the viewer, they would
    not be legible anymore. The very most typefaces are not art. But this does not
    mean, that the creative process of a typeface designer <cite>can</cite> be similar
    to the creative process of an artist.\r\n\r\n<cite>My typefaces are art (I went
    to art school).</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Some typefaces have recently been \"acquired\"
    by the Museum of Modern Art \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThat hopefully was a joke, because
    it sounds like: On TV they have said, that there are weapons of mass destruction
    in Iraq. And because they said it on TV, it must be true."
  created: '2011-02-27 22:22:01'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: 'Ugh, is this a freshman philosophy seminar? '
  created: '2011-02-27 22:29:44'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>It's art if I say so.</cite>\r\n\r\nAbsolut yes and absolute no. I
    think, the courage for dictatorship and intolerance is important with regard to
    the question, if a concrete object or action is art. Art is not as you like. The
    dictatorship does not commit the dictator to like the piece of art. There are
    a lot of things, from which many people claim, that they are art, although they
    are only fucking shit or only beautiful or only entertaining."
  created: '2011-02-27 22:57:29'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>The very most typefaces are not art. But this does not mean, that the
    creative process of a typeface designer can be similar to the creative process
    of an artist.<cite>\r\n\r\nCorrection: The very most typefaces are not art. But
    this does not mean, that the creative process of a typeface designer can <strong>not</strong>
    be similar to the creative process of an artist."
  created: '2011-02-28 11:58:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@Arno - <em>Absolut yes and absolute no.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course (and I should
    have mentioned it explicitly upstream) I can and do only speak for myself. People's
    opinion of what is art differs. Even I know that."
  created: '2011-02-28 13:34:47'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Art is a commodity. When the market that controls the sales and distribution
    of art says a thing is art, then it is art.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EbQ0GqX0Its\r\n\r\nBTW,
    why ask type designers what art is?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-28 14:24:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "With over 15 years of art college this horse is so dead the question doesn\u2019t
    even come up any more. The end of the discussion is everything is art if you can
    contextualize/rationalize it. Just study 20th century art history. Some of my
    personal favorite include <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artist%27s_shit\">Artist\u2019s
    Shit</a>, <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bottle_Rack\">Bottle Rack</a>
    and the <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Klein_Blue\">IKB
    series</em>. \r\n\r\nTwo years ago, one of the graduating MFA\u2019s from NSCAD
    University did absolutely nothing for his thesis. No work, no invitation for his
    exhibition, he didn\u2019t even show up. And he got his degree. I saw an applicant
    to the department describe his thesis exhibition where in the gallery, he had
    his grandmothers bed to which he hot-glue gunned glass eyes and buttons. When
    you entered the room, you would trip an infrared wire which would make pubic hair
    fall from the ceiling. And he got a grant for it.\r\n\r\nHeck, even I have pulled
    this off. In my undergrad, for a performance, I showed up to class in my bathrobe
    and let them watch me make a cup of coffee. They even sat there as the kettle
    came to a boil. The coffee cup was on a piece of plywood which I had broken the
    ends off. Surrounding the cup were 16 steel rods which I had sharpened and driven
    into the board. The spoon was welded to one of the bars so it couldn\u2019t be
    removed. It was to \u201Dsymbolize the importance of security and exclusion in
    a family unit blah blah blah.\u201D\r\n\r\nI could go on for hours."
  created: '2011-02-28 15:36:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "And if you think <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jackson_Pollock\">Jackson
    Pollock</a> is strange, check out the recent documentary <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Kid_Could_Paint_That\">My
    Kid Could Paint That</a>.\r\n\r\nI also just discovered possibly <a href =\"http://www.international-klein-blue.com/\">the
    best website ever based on IKB</a>.\r\n\r\nGive a room full of MFAs an afternoon,
    and they could convince you that this thread, heck, even the act of me typing
    right now, is art. Trust me. It\u2019s endless."
  created: '2011-02-28 15:46:32'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/69_5684.gif]\r\nhttp://www.morenewmath.com/69"
  created: '2011-02-28 16:26:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "> <cite>I also just discovered possibly the best website ever based on IKB.</cite>\r\n\r\nJust
    the site to put on screen while playing [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZivyeW3drU|D\xE1narfregnir
    og jar\xF0arfarir]] with Sigur R\xF3s."
  created: '2011-02-28 17:19:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> I also just discovered possibly the best website ever based on IKB.\r\n\r\nLooks
    like the font used is P22's Cage Silence."
  created: '2011-02-28 17:29:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "If modern art is not modern anymore, how is it called then? Formerly modern
    art? Or formerly art? Or art? Have I to wait, until modern art becomes art or
    have I to hurry up, before it is not art anymore?\r\n\r\nI give a fuck on art,
    that primary wants to provoke, that wants to symbolize anything, that primary
    wants to animate dialogues between empty creators and \u201Cconsumers\u201D or
    that only wants to satisfy the conceitedness of artist or \u201Cconsumer\u201D
    \u2013 except it is good. If the artist exactly knows the meanings of his piece
    of art or if a piece of art needs a manual, there already is something wrong \u2013
    except the piece of art is good. Artists are not necessarily more creative or
    more sensible than designers. It is better to be a good designer than a bad artist.
    So, if you are designer, be a good designer instead of wasting your time with
    thinking about the question, whether you are an artist. If your product is shit,
    it does not become better, if you call yourself an artist. <em>Artist</em> is
    probably the most cheap job title.\r\n\r\nI am more  interested in the question,
    how creative processes work, than in attempts to finally clarify, what art is."
  created: '2011-02-28 17:51:29'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "I remember a conclusion arrived at through the history of modern art, and
    similar to Nick's--\"art is what artists make.\"\r\n\r\nOne can build a box and
    somehow it is not art. But if one builds a box and is reacting to the prior frivolities
    of say, Victorian or the like, then this puts it in context and can be considered
    art. \r\n\r\nI can never wrap my head around it. For one, wouldn't it seem that
    in this case the art is only art because it's based on something else we already
    define as art. As if, this new art has no intrinsic value in and of itself but
    only by way of that relationship?\r\n\r\nTwo things I can think of have intrigued
    me lately on this question:\r\nThe 2007 Documentary \"My Kid Could Paint That\"
    as well as the recently Oscar-nominated, unfortunately not Oscar-winning (though
    that would be quite ironic and laughable) Banksy's \"Exit Through the Gift Shop.\""
  created: '2011-02-28 19:55:09'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "As Chris Dean was mentioning, art is one thing to us now and  another to
    us later, and quite another all together by the time we're dead. We always look
    back and say, \"Well, yes, that was art.\" regardless of if the people then thought
    it was definitely not art.\r\nIt's constantly changing.\r\n\r\nSo it is what we
    say it is in any given time and culture. However the distinction of fine art is
    usually that of having some loftier goals, a more theoretical or philosophical
    understanding that is trying to be conveyed. And it is for that reason alone I
    imagine they exist.\r\n\r\nCommercial arts may from time to time approach those
    values, but they are inspired by money alone.\r\n\r\nI think artists like to make
    money, and hope to, but their desire to create art is not driven by it.\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-28 20:04:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Commercial arts may from time to time approach those values, but they
    are inspired by money alone.</em>\r\n\r\nMight it not be a loftier goal to create
    something practical, rather than silly, sensational and crudely made?\r\n"
  created: '2011-02-28 21:07:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Art is that aspect of a thing that is extra-utile, i.e. that is not functional
    but is the focus of our aesthetic sense, our delight in beauty and ideas. Art
    as a class of object, refers to things whose character is wholly or almost wholly
    extra-utile. Such objects, like anything else we make, require craft (skilled
    making) to be effectively realised: it doesn't matter how clever the artist's
    idea or how beautiful his conception if he can't realise it. Just as art requires
    craft, everything that human beings consciously make is tinged with some degree
    of art, some extra-utile quality. Humans are aesthetic creatures, and when we
    make judgements about how to form a thing, no matter how quotidianly functional
    <a href=\"http://www.britishmuseum.org/images/axe_l.jpg\">the object</a> in question,
    we include aesthetic criteria. Some objects leave little room for art, of course,
    because their function really does define their form, but seldom is an extra-utile
    component entirely absent.\r\n\r\n[And if that sounds familiar, it\u2019s because
    I copied and pasted it from the last time we had this conversation on Typophile.]"
  created: '2011-02-28 23:18:15'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: Point well taken, Nick. Though I do not believe such things would have to
    be either silly, sensational, or crudely made. But I know what you mean.
  created: '2011-03-01 00:20:24'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "quadiblock said:\r\n>   What about a baby?\r\n\r\nthat's something created
    by nature.  so it's _nature_, not _art_.\r\n\r\nbut a baby _is_ beautiful, so
    you were on the right track there...\r\n\r\nnature creates awesomely beautiful
    stuff -- mountains, ladybugs, \r\nwaterfalls, nuclear explosions, non-nuclear
    explosions, bumblebees,\r\nour circulatory system, ken jennings, flowers, the
    man in the moon,\r\ngreen grass, buffalo, microbes, giraffes, banksy, supernovas,
    valleys,\r\nand those pretty blonde curls atop the head of my lovely girlfriend...\r\n\r\nart
    is a feeble and failed attempt by humans to match mother nature.\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n\r\np.s.
    \ there's an old saying among my close friends:  \"poetry sucks.\"\r\nwe were
    _delighted_ when one of my friends added:  \"art swallows.\"\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-01 05:36:49'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: 'John, I agree, but... Art doesn''t necessarily require craft. An object becomes
    the object of art, not only because of the decision of the artist, but also in
    the choice made by another person (so, not always skilled making but also choosing,
    vide your example of a stone tool). Two: some art activities don''t require any
    workshop skills.'
  created: '2011-03-01 08:17:02'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ alexus\r\n\r\n<cite>[url=http:// www.shoxtrading.com] Nike air max bas
    prix [/url]\r\n[url=http:// www.shoxtrading.com] Nike shox pas cher[/url]</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    this spam or do you want to tell me, that Nike shoes are pieces of art? They are
    not pieces of art. That\u2019s just design, even not good design in case of the
    most models, not less and not more.\r\n\r\nI assume, with <a href=\"http://www.shoxtrading.com/nike-shox-tl-/3411-livraison-gratuite-chaussures-de-running-homme-nike-shox-tl-air-bas-prix-noir-or-51.html\">those
    shoes</a> you are looking like someone, who threads down octopuses. They are only
    a bad copy of the <a href=\"http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_VgTieCVIdyk/TEHUOHwFiDI/AAAAAAAAAo4/ROj27Ify8uY/s1600/octopus.jpg\">original</a>.\r\n\r\n@
    bowerbird\r\n\r\n<cite>art is a feeble and failed attempt by humans to match mother
    nature.</cite>\r\n\r\nNonsense!"
  created: '2011-03-01 09:38:12'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>An object becomes the object of art, not only because of the decision
    of the artist, but also in the choice made by another person (so, not always skilled
    making but also choosing, vide your example of a stone tool).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t think so, because the creative process is not absolute conscious. And
    as better you master your tools, as better you can make use of your subconscious,
    because you have not constantly and consciously to think about, what your hands
    have to do. In the creative process you switch between different states of mind.
    From this point of view you already are different persons in the creative process,
    creator and observer. At least that\u2019s my personal experience. This probably
    varies from person to person. There is something, which is holy, in the creative
    process. Art is not in competition to nature, but an attempt to feel home in nature,
    while nature is the universe and art is part of the universe as even everything
    else. But this can be also valid for the creative process of design. The difference
    is, that design has a much more clearly defined function and design always must
    bow to the function. Design is surface. It is not less important than art, but
    it is not the same. If you have to bow, it is a bit harder to feel like God, the
    ultimate creator. (I don\u2019t believe in God.)"
  created: '2011-03-01 10:39:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Everything done is done by design. \r\n\r\nEverything.\r\n\r\nI don't care
    if it's a typeface or a canvas or a whatever ...everything is done by design.\r\n\r\nPeriod.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-02 05:25:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Marcin: <em>An object becomes the object of art, not only because of the
    decision of the artist, but also in the choice made by another person (so, not
    always skilled making but also choosing, vide your example of a stone tool).</em>\r\n\r\nI
    disagree, but perhaps because we're talking about slightly different things. An
    object may be called \u2018art\u2019 for a variety of reasons -- one of which
    is that someone has put it in an art gallery --, but what I am talking about is
    art as a quality of the object: a quality of aesthetic <em>art</em>ifice, i.e.
    of its making.\r\n\r\nRe. the Olduvai stone tool: I don't think this is \u2018art\u2019,
    because its functional purpose is so obvious and overriding, unlike a painting.
    Rather, it is an object that demonstrates the extra-utile, asthetic quality that
    I think is seldom completely absent from anything that humans make."
  created: '2011-03-02 07:11:11'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "@John\r\nNow I understand. In Polish there are two terms used. The first
    means pure, inutile \"art\" and I always think of it when I see the English word.
    The other term means \"artistry, craft, craftmanship, skill\", some proficiency
    that can be used in \"art\" as a tool. That's why for some of my friends \"applied
    art\" sounds oxymoronic. (I admit that I also would be a bit embarrassed to hear
    that \"everything around us is art\". I'd have to ask for more explanations).
    For me personally, the word \"art\" means (doing / making consciously) something
    absolutely unnecessary. Introducing aesthetic quality into an object can be described
    as \"art\"; no doubt.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-02 13:19:16'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Personally, I find function to be artistic in it's own right. \"Art\" is
    a term which is completely subjective and impossible to quantify or qualify. The
    entire debate falls into the realm of philosophy which can be debated until everyone
    goes home mad. Art is whatever the \"artist\" can convince others to be art. \r\n\r\nWhen
    I was in college, I loved this debate because it was so easy to get a room full
    of \"artists\" worked into a frenzy. \r\n\r\nGarabond, just out of morbid curiosity,
    why did you ask this question in a type forum? I would think that there are bound
    to be far better venues for this type of debate - back at the coffee shop maybe
    or a nice pub."
  created: '2011-03-02 15:30:43'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: art is freedom
  created: '2011-03-02 16:59:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beating_a_dead_horse2_5047.jpg]'
  created: '2011-03-02 18:52:00'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nScience is what we understand well enough to explain to a
    computer. Art is everything else we do.\r\n</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-03-02 20:00:20'
- author:
    name: Kristians Sics
    picture: 118465
  body: "We can draw a line here: a broom you can sweep floor with is a design, a
    broom that is useless is a piece of art. A typeface you can read is a design.
    A typeface you can't read is art.\r\nAs once the guys from typography explained
    me the difference between a book and a booklet - you put it on the edge, if it
    falls it's a booklet."
  created: '2011-03-02 21:33:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>Personally, I find function to be artistic in it's own right.
    \"Art\" is a term which is completely subjective and impossible to quantify or
    qualify.</em>\r\n\r\nYou don't need to be able to quantify or qualify something
    in order to have a concept of its distinguishing characteristics and be able to
    talk meaningfully about it. I have suggested what seems to me a very sound definition
    of art as an extra-utile aesthetic quality of human creations. We don't need to
    know what percentage of an individual creation is utile and what percentage art,
    nor do we need to make judgements about whether it is good or bad art.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you say that you find function to be artistic, I think what you really mean is
    that there are elements of utility that you respond to aesthetically. I'm not
    saying that only the extra-utile is beautiful, I am saying that only the extra-utile
    is art. There is beauty in much that is not art."
  created: '2011-03-03 00:22:00'
- author:
    name: Stickley
    picture: 117189
  body: "There's a lost distinction between artist and artisan, which leads to confusion
    between art and creativity.\r\n\r\nThere was a show on a few days ago where guys
    were restoring a classic car and as they worked the body lines down to a smooth
    finish, they declared it art. Well, no. They are talented craftsmen, and there's
    a great skill and technique to it, but it's not art. If everything is art, nothing
    is\u2014like if everything is bold and underlined to stand out and be important,
    nothing stands out as important.\r\n\r\nIn an interview with Moby several years
    back a question about whether DJs make music made a good point for how I see things.
    Paraphrased: \"What DJs do is creative, it isn't music, but it is creative.\"\r\n\r\n
    Are many things creative? Yes. Does it take great skill and ability? Yes. It is
    art? No.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-03 00:32:25'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "John, your definition works within the boundaries of your culture and your
    culture's aesthetics. Other cultures or individuals might find no value aesthetically
    or otherwise in what you might call art. I agree that beauty and art are different
    subjects. Many things that are deemed artistic are disturbing and even abhorrent
    to some people. That still means that art is defined by the individual or the
    culture as an entity. Perhaps a more precise definition would be - that quality
    of a object which stirs the aesthetic and emotional sense of the viewer or viewers,
    possibly beyond the utility of its function (or lack there of.)\r\n\r\nOf course
    that takes away some of the mysticism that artists like to robe themselves with.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-03 02:58:06'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Let's define exactly what we mean by the words, \"useful\", \"Utilitarian\",
    \"Functional\" and all those other words people use when trying to explain what
    art is which imply that art is a frivolous pastime. We humans have been making
    art since we were living in caves and the most lethal weapon we could think of
    was a heavy stick. To me, defining art as something with no apparent purpose misses
    the mark by a country mile.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-03 03:09:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, your definition works within the boundaries of your culture and
    your culture's aesthetics. Other cultures or individuals might find no value aesthetically
    or otherwise in what you might call art.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're still not getting
    it. What I am calling art is the extra-utile quality of what humans make which
    appeals to the delight in beauty. Since this extra-utile quality of the made thing
    is, first and foremost, something that appeals to the delight <em>of the maker,</em>
    it is entirely irrelevant to the definition if someone else, whether from a different
    culture or the same culture, shares that delight.\r\n\r\n<em>Of course that takes
    away some of the mysticism that artists like to robe themselves with.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for taking away mysticism. Art is a quality of making, and while that quality
    has degrees -- including both failure and exceptional genius -- it is born of
    the same impulse in a painting as in baking a cake.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n<em>There
    was a show on a few days ago where guys were restoring a classic car and as they
    worked the body lines down to a smooth finish, they declared it art. Well, no.
    They are talented craftsmen, and there's a great skill and technique to it, but
    it's not art.</em>\r\n\r\nSee, I would say that there is art in the work, regardless
    of whether the object is something classed as art. There are elements in the original
    making of the car, and quite possibly in the restoration, that are extra-utile,
    that are unnecessary for the function of the object, but which appeal to sensory
    aesthetic delight. There isn't really another word for the quality of those elements
    except art.\r\n\r\nThe class of objects called \u2018art\u2019 is something else,
    and I strongly recommend a distinction between art as a quality of objects and
    art as a category of objects. I would define objects as \u2018art\u2019 if either
    they lack objective function beyond their aesthetic enjoyment or their objective
    function is minimal relative to their aesthetic value. This invites a kind of
    holistic engagement with objects, because while something like an aboriginal mask
    might be appreciated only as an art object by a non-native observer, he can and
    should be aware that it also served a functional role in its original society."
  created: '2011-03-03 04:22:20'
- author:
    name: Stickley
    picture: 117189
  body: "<cite>See, I would say that there is art in the work, regardless of whether
    the object is something classed as art. There are elements in the original making
    of the car, and quite possibly in the restoration, that are extra-utile, that
    are unnecessary for the function of the object, but which appeal to sensory aesthetic
    delight. There isn't really another word for the quality of those elements except
    art.</cite>\r\n\r\nI had a conversation like this about boxing. A friend said
    boxing was art because of the skill required and the finesse used. I said no,
    there is an art to boxing, but boxing is not art. Quality of execution doesn't
    automatically make something art.\r\n\r\nI design letters using my hands, it doesn't
    make me a calligrapher.\r\n\r\nSomething being beautiful doesn't make it art either,
    and being art doesn't mean it's beautiful. Yes, there is great subjectivity is
    what one would classify as art, and time and context make a difference as well,
    but just because there is skill in the work doesn't make it art. That doesn't
    make an object any less worth while either, it's context. Artistic, skillful,
    quality, amazing, but not \"art\".\r\n\r\nIt may be the conversation of art versus
    Art. Or art versus Fine Art. I'm protective of both. If some yokel painted a copy
    of a soup can label I designed and became famous for it, that'd just make me cranky.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-03 05:24:14'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "art cranky!  he was on \"the honeymooners\" with jackie gleason, right?\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-03 10:17:45'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "Then, <em>secondo me</em>:\r\n- exact revival of cancellaresca isn't art;\r\n-
    typeface revealing some hidden aspects of cancellaresca or those times, I mean
    work that tells something new behind technical aspects - is art.\r\n- exact revival
    of cancellaresca made by someone who claims \"I did it, because I think that copying
    someone's handwriting for mass reproduction is stupid\" - is art."
  created: '2011-03-03 11:59:33'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: Art is craft superfluous to function.
  created: '2011-03-03 15:00:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Yes, \"craft superfluous to function\" is a good short definition of art.\r\n\r\nA
    broom can still be a work of art, even if it sweeps the floor well, if effort
    was also put into making it look good, for example.\r\n\r\nAlmost all typefaces,
    therefore, are works of art - because aesthetics is a consideration that can hardly
    be ignored in typeface design. Of course, that's because it's bound up with function
    - so the line is perhaps more profoundly blurred there than in many other places."
  created: '2011-03-06 01:26:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Art is craft superfluous to function.\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nnonsense. of
    course art has a function.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-06 02:12:20'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<a href=\"http://de.wikiversity.org/wiki/Ann%C3%A4herung_an_eine_Kunstdefinition\">Here</a>
    is a good approach to a definition of the art term. The article is in German.\r\n\r\nThere
    is also a proposal for a short definition of the term. I think, there is much
    truth in that short definition, but if you don\u2019t already have an idea of
    the meaning of the term, the definition does not help. But as longer I think about
    the short definition, as more I come to the conclusion, that it is precise. I
    am trying to translate it:\r\n\r\nArt aestheticises the antinomies of life without
    resolving them. It is ingenious objectivity.\r\n\r\n(\u201CKunst \xE4sthetisiert
    die Antinomien des Lebens, ohne sie aufzul\xF6sen. Sie ist geniale Objektivit\xE4t.\u201D)\r\n\r\nThe
    second phrase sounds a bit paradox, because there is probably nothing as subjective
    as ingenuity. But I already wrote in a former comment, that art is not any (\u201Cbeliebig\u201D
    in German) and that art is a dictatorship. It is objective, because humans are
    conflicting beings with regard to their evolutionary stage. On the one side they
    are conscious and intelligent. But on the other side they are inable to understand
    the origin and the sense of the world. Humans are intermediate beings. So art
    is the attempt to feel home with this conflict and to remind this conflict. And
    in contradiction to that design is the attempt, to forget the conflict by covering
    it with beauty or by adjusting objects to the human anatomy. Art is also an attempt
    to surmount the own mortality."
  created: '2011-03-06 13:50:06'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "@ russellm\r\n\r\nSo then- what is the function of a work of art?\r\nIf you
    want a portrait of a loved one, you could just snap a picture- or you could hire
    a portrait photographer. What would the difference be? I am saying that there
    is a gap between what is needed and what is a work of art.\r\n\r\nI have always
    self-identified as an artist, but I am paid to be a craftperson, so this issue
    has been quite pressing in my thoughts. If I am asked to provide the graphics
    for an ad with a fourty-five minute deadline- I will not be producing art, though
    what I provide will be servicable. Given a week, I might squeeze some art into
    the project. I think this distinction is important. Also, to make the point that
    art is not 'whatever I say is art', but some quality that transcends funtionality.
    Quality. I assert that insomuch as something is art, it has a quality that transcends
    its funtion."
  created: '2011-03-06 14:38:41'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: "Making a font legible is a craft.\r\nMaking a font beautiful is an art.\r\n\r\n(and
    I am more and more interested in craft)"
  created: '2011-03-06 14:44:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Didn't we just have a thread about the importance of a professional (expert)
    distinction between the meaning of \"font\" and \"typeface\"?\r\nThis discussion
    is decidedly quaint and amateurish.\r\nBut you might say, should the views of
    only those with professional qualifications or experience in art be taken seriously?\r\nI
    would say yes\u2014that's how it is with other disciplines.\r\nOf course, everyone
    is entitled to their opinion.\r\nAnd you might consider yourself an artist, even
    though you are not a professional artist.\r\nDesigners are not, de facto, artists
    (although a few are also artists).  \r\nWhen an artist says \"this is art\", and
    the art community recognizes it as such, it must be art. \r\nIt's absurd to argue
    otherwise\u2014with abstract, philosophical generalizations about the veracity
    of \"whatever I say is art, is art\".\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-06 17:19:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>When an artist says \"this is art\", and the art community recognizes
    it as such, it must be art.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot really. There are many thousands
    of objects, that are called art by their creators and viewers, although they are
    banal. I just remember the guy with the doors on one of the last Documentas. Maybe
    his door construction was art (before it has crashed because of his inability
    and his defiance of statics), but it was banal. Maybe too banal for being art;
    it was pure shit, superfluous, a waste of material and a waste of energy for the
    transport. As I already said, if an artists explains, that he wants to <em>symbolize</em>
    anything, it is already suspicious. I am not interested, if someone wants to symbolize
    anything, but at most, if he symbolizes anything. On the other said \u2013 if
    you don\u2019t know, whether a certain object is art, it is not necessarily art,
    <em>because</em> you don\u2019t know, whether it is art. It is on you to classify
    the object, but not on a community. Art is not made for communities, but for the
    artist, although most artists want to have feedback. They don\u2019t do it primary
    for you, but for themselves. Art is the deep need of artists, but not just pastime,
    in which you symbolize a bit, or a job. It is not a definition, if it requires
    other persons for the classification. The definition can not be \u201CAsk somebody
    else\u201D."
  created: '2011-03-06 19:09:16'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>When an artist says \"this is art\"</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd
    who\u2019s saying \u201Cthis is an artist\u201D? Who/what is an artist, anyway?"
  created: '2011-03-06 19:31:32'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "See <a href\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outsider_art#Notable_outsider_artists\">outsider
    art</a>. By this definition, anyone can be an artist. And don\u2019t forget about
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folk_art\">folk art</a>."
  created: '2011-03-06 19:57:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, I think there''s a problem in defining art as the non-useful part of
    something. Causing delight or enjoyment or interest makes something useful because
    we want those experiences. In economics "utility" would include aesthetic pleasures.
    I''m not saying I agree with the economists'' way of looking at these things,
    but I think that shows there''s a problem with your definition. I think more is
    needed in describing or distinguishing the aesthetic experience, if you''re going
    to avoid a circular definition. '
  created: '2011-03-06 20:40:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Arno: <em>Not really.</em>\r\n@riccard0: <em>\u2026who\u2019s saying \u201Cthis
    is an artist\u201D?\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nA certain sector of society\u2014economically
    and socially\u2014is composed of artists and those involved with their work.\r\n\r\nArtists,
    who have studied at art schools, sell their work in art galleries with the help
    of art dealers, exhibit at art museums, receive arts council grants, are discussed
    in art magazines and art blogs, declare themselves as artists on their passports
    and tax returns\u2014and you say that what they do for a living is not art?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-06 21:14:38'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>and you say that what they do for a living is not art?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I say, that it is not necessarily art. You are talking about the market. I am
    talking about quality. And if the quality is on a very low level, it is not art.
    I remember, that I saw a chromed metal plate on the wall in a museum years ago.
    There were wholes in the plate, which looked like bullet impacts. What was the
    intention? I could and can only imagine one intention: There were no wholes in
    the origin work. And then a reviewer came and shot at the work, because it only
    was worth to shoot at it. But it neither was art before the shot nor it was after.
    It was simply expensive uncompostable bullshit. Bullshit cannot become an artwork,
    only someone claims, that it is art. Let\u2019s assume now, my interpretation
    of the artwork is the same as the interpretation of the artist. In this case the
    intention is not less banal."
  created: '2011-03-06 22:14:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I think that in theory people who come out of art school can be paid
    for being artists even if what they produce isn't actually art, or at least art
    of any aesthetic merit. I do agree with John that there is an aesthetic dimension
    of experience that doesn't depend on whether you fit into the bourgeois box of
    the market for art labeled as such.  \r\n\r\nPeople could mistake something for
    art and pay for it out of their confusion. I think there's a certain segment of
    the art market that is distorted by speculators, and that kind of thing can happen.
    As you have pointed out, part of modern art has been stretching the notion of
    what art is. I suspect that in some cases it has been been stretched beyond being
    of aesthetic value, and in retrospect the market will be seen as a speculative
    bubble that bursts. Has this already happened?"
  created: '2011-03-06 22:18:01'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > And if the quality is on a very low level, it is not art. </cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that many of the arguments and descriptions being bandied about (of
    which the quoted is only one example) seem intent on circumscribing Art in such
    a way that there can be no admittance of the concept of *bad* art. \r\n\r\nWith
    the exception of Nick's provocative definition. "
  created: '2011-03-06 23:36:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Arno: <em>You are talking about the market.</em>\r\n\r\nI am talking about
    society.\r\n\r\n@Kent: <em>Nick's provocative definition.</em>\r\n\r\nProvocative?
    This is the definition of the establishment, the status quo, the government: if
    it says on someone's college degree that they're an artist, and on their passport
    and their income tax return, then they are legally an artist, and what they do
    for a living is art.\r\n\r\nOne may think that their work is a sham and the quality
    is terrible, and one might not like what modern art has become, but it is still
    art.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-07 03:45:19'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "When an \"artist\" says \"this is art\" - this is art.\r\nWhen someone else
    says \"this is art\" - this is also art.\r\nThe rest is just art economy. \r\n\r\nSomeone
    told me a few days ago, that art isn't comfortable for the contemporary society,
    so he can see some kind of (unplanned) change of places between 'culture' and
    'art'. It's like the culture used to be something that we used to be with, and
    meanwhile the art inspired. Now everything has to 'inspire us' and just the art
    seems to be 'that usual and expectable thing'.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-07 07:31:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "\"Science fiction is anything published as science fiction.\"\r\n\u2013 Norman
    Spinrad\r\n\r\n(paraphrased from John W. Campbell, I think)"
  created: '2011-03-07 09:45:23'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "So far, I think Nick is closest to the truth. Hard to digest as it might
    be, one all encompassing theory (although not without its critics)  is the institutional
    art theory, as formulated by George Dickie. Basically, <cite>an object can only
    be(come) art in the context of the institution known as \"the artworld\".</cite>\r\nSo
    anything can be art, as long as the context is legit. A typeface, a piece of poop.
    \r\nThat said I don't think it's particularly important for things I like/find
    beautiful and/or interesting to be art. \r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2011-03-07 12:19:16'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Nick \u2014 Sorry, not \u201Cyours\u201D, but the one you articulated; and
    \u201Cprovocative\u201D in the sense that it had been provoking reaction and objection
    in this thread, partly because it confronts those definitions that want to reserve
    the label Art as a value judgment."
  created: '2011-03-07 12:44:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>John, I think there's a problem in defining art as the non-useful
    part of something. Causing delight or enjoyment or interest makes something useful
    because we want those experiences. In economics \"utility\" would include aesthetic
    pleasures.</em>\r\n\r\nIn some branches of economics, yes, but that is because
    capitalism requires constant expansion of commodification: hence any experience,
    no matter how intimate eventually becomes a subject of economic activity. This
    kind of 'aesthetic utility' -- the \u2018usefulness\u2019 of providing aesthetic
    pleasure -- explains one aspect of the market for art objects (much of the art
    market, especially at the higher end, is clearly speculative investment), but
    it doesn't explain what art is as something that all human beings invest in the
    making of things, which is what interests me.\r\n\r\nPerhaps it helps if I refine
    my definition like this: art is that quality of made things that appeals directly
    to the mental faculty for aesthetic engagement, and hence is extra-utile to any
    other functions that the things may have. The important point, for my perspective,
    is that art is an observable quality of what humans make, even if what is made
    is intended for quite quotidian purposes."
  created: '2011-03-07 17:39:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've been advocating the Institutional definition (thanks for the word, Fredo),
    not because it's my singularly held personal view, but because it disproves philosophical
    theorizing as the be all and end all of art defining.\r\n\r\nI have always thought
    that there are many ways to do most things, including art and defining it.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-07 17:47:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Shifting direction:\r\n\r\nI'm thinking now about art in the sense of a class
    of made objects, as distinct from the aesthetic quality of human-made things in
    general. I suspect that this class contains too many sub-classes of both medium
    and genre to be easily defined other than in a nominalist way: art is everything
    that people choose to call art. Even so, I think this class of objects can be
    broadly considered in terms of the marriage of that aesthetic quality discussed
    above to a function of mental -- intellectual and/or emotional -- engagement.
    When I think about my own most intense experiences of works of art -- an afternoon
    spent at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, looking very carefully, for a long, long
    time at a small number of  Rembrandt and Vermeer paintings -- what I am aware
    of is two things -- the aesthetic qualities (composition, colour, brushwork etc.)
    and the intellectual/emotional qualities (subject, sympathy) -- and then a third
    thing: the way in which these two are married in the object. Obviously, for different
    genres and media of art objects -- including literary and musical -- the particular
    qualities will vary in kind, but this sense of marriage of aesthetic and intellectual/emotional
    qualities remains, I think, one of the hallmarks of successful art. TS Eliot wrote
    of the moment, in writing poetry, when the poem came right with the sense of a
    box clicking shut, a perfectly manufactured fit of parts. I think a similar sense
    is enjoyed by the reader of the poem, or the viewer of a painting or the listener
    to a piece of music."
  created: '2011-03-07 17:56:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, what do you make of the \"elegant\" mathematical solution to a problem?\r\nOr
    the goal scored by spinarama or scissors kick? The slam dunk?\r\n\r\nAre these
    \"made things\" that may have an aesthetic appeal, and hence be art?\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-07 18:00:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, the institutional definition appears to work neatly as a categorisation
    of the class of art objects. I think it is actually too narrow, in that it locates
    the definition of art within a particular econo-cultural phenomenon, \u2018the
    artworld\u2019, and ignores the many other contexts in which people all over the
    world, individually or collectively, call things art. The pure nominalist definition
    -- art is everything that people choose to call art -- seems to me both more generous
    and more accurate.\r\n\r\nAgain, though, these kinds of definitions work in terms
    of categorising art as a class of things; they don't contribute to an understanding
    of art as a quality that may be found in things that normally fall outside that
    class."
  created: '2011-03-07 18:06:35'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>@Arno: You are talking about the market.\r\n\r\nI am talking about
    society.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are talking about a society, that accumulates its values
    by examining the market, a society, in which the initiation rite is the driver
    license examination. It is ridiculous to believe, that you are an artist just
    because you went to an art school. We are living in times, in which dull bastards
    like George W. Bush can become president of the United States. In other words,
    there is absolute no logical relation between your roles in the society and your
    competence anymore. Are certificates really all you need for estimating people?
    I simply met too many dense academics. I want to see, hear, smell, taste and touch
    art, but not certificates."
  created: '2011-03-07 18:10:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, those are good questions. Note, however that I don't say that things
    are \u2018art\u2019 because they have aesthetic appeal; I say that art is that
    quality of things that has aesthetic appeal.\r\n\r\nIn the case of elegance in
    mathematics, I think there are two phenomena to consider: the elegance that is
    inherent in what the math describes, which is not something that the mathematician
    has made and hence not art -- it is, rather, like the aesthetic experience of
    nature --, and the elegance in the expression of the description, which I would
    say is art. Having spent some time working on mathematical typesetting and talking
    with mathematicians and scientists, I think there is very definitely an aesthetic
    awareness, even an aesthetic culture, that responds to the fittingness of expression
    to concept in the same way that one responds to the fittingness of expression
    to idea in e.g. painting.\r\n\r\nIn the case of beautiful athletic achievements,
    on the whole I would say that yes, the aesthetic quality may be a kind of art
    on the basis of practice and training. If I were somehow to succeed in placing
    a football in the net by throwing my legs over my head, that would be luck, and
    if it managed to be beautiful in the execution -- most unlikely! -- that would
    also be luck and, hence, its beauty would be the beauty of accident, not of intentional
    creation. Now the beauty of accident may accompany the beauty of art, and happy
    discovery may accompany painstaking craft in the making of anything, but for the
    artist -- and for the athlete as artist -- it is difficult to separate the momentary
    act from the months or years of preparation and experience. What may seem spontaneous
    might be the result of many, many hours of practice and training. I have a piece
    of calligraphy on my wall that took Gabriel Mart\xEDnez Meave about five minutes
    to create, but its beauty is obviously the result of many years of practice and
    experience, so art is obviously not something that happens just within the act
    of creating an individual thing, but is built up over time so that it may be expressed
    in that thing; similarly, I'd say that the beauty we see in an athletic achievement
    may be the expression of developed skill. The fact that not all goals scored are
    beautiful -- some are merely functional; some may be clumsy or due to an fumble
    by the goalkeeper -- makes it clear that there can be an extra-utile, aesthetic
    quality to a goal, and insofar as this is the result of training and practice
    to be able to score goals in that way, I'd say it shows a kind of art."
  created: '2011-03-07 18:30:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Arno, the fact that culture and society are in the thrall of capital and
    corporations does not discount the Institutional definition of art.\r\nWe are
    social beings, and if our society says someone is an artist, that is the description
    we generally follow.\r\nBut if six, turned out to be nine, I don't mind.\r\n\r\n<em>It
    is ridiculous to believe, that you are an artist just because you went to an art
    school.</em> \r\n\r\nTrue, you also have to make a living at it.\r\nHowever, it's
    not just art schools, but many other institutions in society.\r\nYou probably
    won't be considered a proper artist if you don't exhibit or sell your work\u2014you
    will be considered an amateur.\r\nIf you have academic qualifications but struggle
    with a career, you are in a strange limbo.\r\nBut an education\u2014in any field\u2014is
    no guarantee of the classic job role. Many fine art graduates work in the art
    industry as non-artists, such as management, teaching, or curation. Or go into
    related fields such as fashion, film, or rock and roll. I went into advertising
    and design. If you apply for institutional grants, a certain kind of career trajectory
    will be expected, including peer recognition, i.e. exhibiting in peer-reviewed
    exhibitions."
  created: '2011-03-07 19:22:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think the point of the \"What is Art?\" question, at least in philosophy,
    is to try to describe what is distinctive about the aesthetic experience, and
    the process of creating things or experiences that have aesthetic merit. \r\n\r\nSo
    John's description of art in terms of aesthetic experience, while sound, doesn't
    get at the issue. Nick's definition, though I'm sure useful for some purposes,
    doesn't doesn't address the question of understanding this dimension of human
    experience. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-07 21:29:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\nQuoting Reynir: <cite>It's art if I say so.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    phrase is true for me, if I say it. And it is true for him, if he says it. The
    phrase summarizes, what I wrote about the dictatorship of evaluation of art. He
    was very right with that phrase. It is irrelevant, what the society says, because
    in my opinion there is nothing, where an own opinion is more important than in
    case of the evaluation of art. Really, it already begins, when I am turning on
    the TV and stumble in one of these superstar casting shows. <cite>And the next
    artist is \u2026</cite> \u2013 you probably cannot imagine, how much all this
    rubbish makes me sick. <em>That\u2019s</em> society. I give a fuck on society
    with regard to the evaluation of art. Our society is a casting show.\r\n\r\nLet
    me tell you, what has happened to my father round about ten years ago. I have
    grown up in an artist household. My father is sculptor since 45 years \u2013 with
    education at art academies (with a studentship) and education to stonemason. His
    works are classical, but with an archaic, in the later years often with an utopical
    touch. I cannot explain it better, especially not in English and partly, because
    I always was more interested in two-dimensional art and in music. But I can see
    the high quality of his work. (My relationship to my father is troubled. I don\u2019t
    have contact to him anymore.) One reason is, that there never was anything as
    important for him as his art \u2013 inclusively me. But he is a total DAU with
    regard to management. It begins with the condition of his toilette, which is unsuitable
    for potential buyers, and it ends with the inability to handle non-artificial
    paperworks without help. And so he did sell nothing for years. But he has offset
    the materials for his works or his atelier against tax. And then the taxman wanted
    to have a payment of tax arrears. Ground: \u201EBecause you did not sell anything
    in the last time, you are a hobbyist, but not an artist.\u201C And he lost the
    lawsuit. Fucking taxmen, fucking Babbitts define, what art is. I remember, how
    I wondered, that he was relatively calm with regard to this infamy. If this had
    happened to me, I could have cut this fucking taxman into little pieces and feed
    them to my cats. (Unfortunately I don\u2019t have cats.)"
  created: '2011-03-07 21:49:59'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Art is whatever anyone chooses to say it is. It is a muddy meaniless term
    in and of itself. Every application or dicipline has a different definition each
    valid in its own area of influence.\r\n\r\nArt is also whatever and \"Artist\"
    says it is, if he or she can convince a peanut gallery of rubes, that's even better.\r\n\r\nI
    have a nasty feeling that I'm just restating something someone else said, you
    have my apologies. Honestly, this debate is much more fun with a room full of
    artists and other such visionaries."
  created: '2011-03-07 22:03:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>I think the point of the \"What is Art?\" question, at least in
    philosophy, is to try to describe what is distinctive about the aesthetic experience,
    and the process of creating things or experiences that have aesthetic merit.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    may have been true 150 years ago, but then along came Ruskin with the idea of
    social purpose, and 50 years later, Duchamp:\r\n\"Whether Mr Mutt made the fountain
    with his own hands or not has no importance. He CHOSE it. He took an article of
    life, placed it so that its useful significance disappeared under the new title
    and point of view\u2014created a new thought for that object.\"\r\nDuchamp removed
    aesthetics as a necessary quality of art. That was in 1917.\r\nMany people felt
    that the cat should remain in the bag, but it was gone. \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nOne
    of my favorite art theorist quotes (because of its typographic resonance) is by
    Hal Foster: \"Each era is a palimpsest of emergent and residual forms.\""
  created: '2011-03-08 00:43:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I think the point of the \"What is Art?\" question, at least in
    philosophy, is to try to describe what is distinctive about the aesthetic experience,
    and the process of creating things or experiences that have aesthetic merit.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    know philosophers who have written on and taught courses in Aesthetics, and as
    far as I can gather they don't bother with \u2018What is Art?\u2019 as a question.
    As one of them has said to me \u2018Art is what artists make, and some of it is
    rubbish\u2019, i.e. the question of what art <em>is</em> is independent of aesthetic
    merit. The philosophical question of Aesthetics is \u2018What is beauty?\u2019\r\n\r\n<em>So
    John's description of art in terms of aesthetic experience, while sound, doesn't
    get at the issue.</em>\r\n\r\nI talked about my personal experience, by way of
    example, when discussing art as a class of object, but I didn't use the term when
    describing what I think art is as a quality. I suppose we can only know that quality
    experientially, but I would have to consider that the quality of extra-utile beauty
    in a particular thing may be beyond my experience or, even, beyond the experience
    of anyone now living, but that such a quality may still be presumed and to have
    been experienced by the maker. Whenever we see evidently deliberately fashioned
    aspects of  a thing that are not explained by utility, we must, I think, presume
    that they may constitute art, even if we do not find them aesthetically pleasing.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick's
    definition, though I'm sure useful for some purposes, doesn't address the question
    of understanding this dimension of human experience.</em>\r\n\r\nNor does it,
    as he suggested, end or bypass philosophical debate: it just shifts the grounds
    of debate from aesthetics or categories to socio-economics.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-08 01:03:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Duchamp removed aesthetics as a necessary quality of art.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    read the whole episode differently. It isn't necessary to have <em>seen</em> the
    famous urinal in order to experience the \u2018new thought for that object\u2019.
    The art is not the object, but Duchamp\u2019s performance, including the exhibition
    of the object, the invention of the artist Mr Mutt and, not least, the critical
    commentary (probably not written by Duchamp, but clearly orchestrated as part
    of the performance) that purports to explain the meaning of event. Beautifully
    done."
  created: '2011-03-08 01:07:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: http://hem.passagen.se/gkrantz/ett/artiklar/kjell.html
  created: '2011-03-08 01:09:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: <em>Nor does it, as he suggested, end or bypass philosophical debate:
    it just shifts the grounds of debate from aesthetics or categories to socio-economics.</em>\r\n\r\nSocio-economics
    isn't philosophy.\r\n\r\n@John: <em>Beautifully done.</em>\r\n\r\nCuration as
    performance art?\r\nI doubt that present day curators would like to be dragged
    down to that level."
  created: '2011-03-08 01:28:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, the only book I've read on aesthetics, is R.G. Collingwood's [[http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0195002091/ref=s9_simh_gw_p14_d0_i1?pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=center-2&pf_rd_r=1MSJA2VHME1YZWQ7T5PK&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=470938631&pf_rd_i=507846|Principles
    of Art]], which is organized around the question \"What is Art?\" I think his
    discussions of discussions of philosophical idealism are a waste of time, but
    what he writes about art is quite wonderful and thought provoking. I'm sure he
    doesn't get it quite right, but it's a very interesting book. \r\n\r\n>Duchamp
    removed aesthetics as a necessary quality of art.\r\n\r\nOr did he succeed in
    selling something that wasn't art, but a statement about the politics and economics
    of the art market? Personally, such work has snob appeal and antiquarian value,
    but no artistic merit.  "
  created: '2011-03-08 01:33:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Art is something an artist compelled to make from notions within him/herself.
    That thing may be perceived as art or not by others.  It may be a pile of donkey
    \xDFhit or or the most magnificently beautiful thing imaginable.  It may be perceived
    as original or not. The REAL issue then is \"What is an Artist\"? First let's
    ask the Philosopher King.  He will get back to you when he is done explaining
    himself.\r\n\r\nOnly Yogi Berra knows what art is.  \"It is what it is\""
  created: '2011-03-08 02:34:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<a href=\"http://matadornetwork.com/nights/urinals-amputations-starvation-silence-controversial-art-crap/\">Urinals,
    amputations, starvation, and silence: Controversial art or just crap?</a>\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t which I like better. The silent orchestra, or the people who sat through
    it."
  created: '2011-03-08 03:29:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/7eb315f1493f_6467.png]\r\n\r\nAnd don\u2019t
    forget about this guy.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-08 03:47:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: That guys is one of my heroes.
  created: '2011-03-08 04:14:58'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "...what about those guys?\r\n[[http://www.google.pl/images?q=Floor%20drawings%20from%20La%20Marche%20cave%2C%20Lussac-les-Chateaux.&oe=utf-8&rls=org.mozilla:pl:official&client=firefox-a&um=1&ie=UTF-8&source=og&sa=N&hl=pl&tab=wi&biw=1680&bih=918|Floor
    drawings from La Marche cave, Lussac-les-Chateaux.]]\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-08 10:07:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Sigh. Nobody can tell ya what art is, but everybody will.
  created: '2011-03-08 13:20:25'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Nick\r\n\r\n<cite>Duchamp removed aesthetics as a necessary quality of
    art.<cite>\r\n\r\nDo you mess up aesthetics with beauty or picture and subject?
    Aesthetics are a necessary quality of art. If a self-appointed artist claims anything
    different, he only wants to cover his inaction and his vapidity.\r\n\r\nExample:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/003-Kazakhstan-Semipalatinsk-2008_4830.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    is taken from <a href=\"http://didierruef.photoshelter.com/gallery-image/RECYCLE-Man-and-Waste/G0000Ugo_u9ciOJ8/I0000h1MO0mi3yuM\">didierruef.photoshelter.com</a>.\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    probably more documentation than art, but with regard to the aesthetics it doesn\u2019t
    matter. The image is beautiful, because it is very aesthetical. Because the photographer
    has taken the picture in that way. The image is very powerful and much more than
    beautiful. Assumed, it is not art \u2013 I am not sure, if it is \u2013 it doesn\u2019t
    matter, because the effect would be exactly the same as if it would be art.\r\n\r\nIn
    contradiction to that, this \u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/500x_licorne-atomic-blast_4499.jpg]\r\n\r\n
    \u2026 is pure beauty, although the event is likewise not beautiful. As beautiful
    it is, it already is decorative. Nothing against decoration, but art is more than
    decoration. The message amounts to nothing more than beauty. I think, art is always
    more than pure beauty.\r\n\r\nI think, it is unimportant, whether an object really
    is art. It is much more important, whether it could be art. Why? Because art does
    not need manuals. Art is speaking for itself, although it naturally makes use
    of the experiences of the viewers \u2013 as everything. Objects of art, that need
    their creators for interpretation, are suspicious. It is not the artist, that
    is important, but only the result of his work. Art does not exist for worshiping
    the artists, but their work. Art, that is satisfying the vanities of the artist
    only, is suspicious, because vanities are a interference factor already during
    the creation. It is not important, what the artist wants to say, if he wants to
    say anything, but the effect to me is important. Often people call themselves
    artists, just because the term sounds ennobling in their simple minds. But there
    is absolute no duty to believe in the claim to be an artist."
  created: '2011-03-08 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "People through out history have \"made things\" that later have been identified
    as being \"Art\".  There has never been a Litmus test for any of these \"designations\"
    or a way to prove the authority of any of those people who made the anointed judgments.
    Some of these are collected in museums, others are in peoples homes, some have
    been condemned by powerful conservative politicians and banished from public funded
    politically correct museumdom. There have been lists made of \"surely these are
    art\" and \"surely these are not art.\"  If we confine ourselves to agreeing on
    objects that we consider art or not, we will never agree, even over time. The
    Sistine Chapel ceiling was, for many years, \"dignified and deified\" by having
    blue drapes painted over the naughty parts in Michaelangelo's original.  Centuries
    later, at great cost and with some damage, they were removed.\r\n\r\nI much prefer
    the original nonjudgmental method. Just \"make stuff\" and put it out in the world.
    \ \r\n\r\nThose who can \"make art\" will, those that can't will judge, and those
    that hear the judgments will disagree or agree on their validity.  After that,
    others will ponder the collection of judgments in search of the definitive Litmus
    test and fail. This will be repeated ad infinitum."
  created: '2011-03-08 14:54:55'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: And as the Litmus test was discovered by medieval alchemists, it is still
    the domain of alchemy, this quest for Art. Meanwhile people do art, and reshape
    the meaning of art. I am deeply impressed by Santiago Sierra's works. His art
    is not only unaesthetic but also unethical. He uses managing skills to create
    total waste; and the more waste he makes to the artworld, the more the artworld
    admires him.
  created: '2011-03-09 07:36:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: In his entire life, Vincent Van Gogh sold just one picture.
  created: '2011-03-09 09:40:10'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>His art is not only unaesthetic but also unethical.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    another one, who messes up beauty with aesthetics. With regard to ethics I would
    like to differentiate between a) the message, b) the material (inclusively beings
    capable of suffering) and c) the immediate tangible content / the first impression
    / the surface.\r\n\r\na) If the conscious projected message dominates the creation,
    I would call it grandstanding or political <em>design</em>, dependent from the
    content. If the creator additionally and consciously tries to get attention by
    shocking people, the probability, that his creative resources are limited, is
    very high. And as I already said, I am interested in art, but not in artists.
    I don\u2019t want to know about the personal antinomies of the artist, because
    I am not a psychiatrist, but I am interested in new perspectives of the antinomies
    of life \u2013 in profound aestheticised perspectives. The life of the artist
    is only interesting, because it is the basic requirement for continuing with making
    art. If the artist tries to catch up on his anal or urethral or prostatal or uteral
    phase with the help of me, I am mainly bored. I am really not fascinated by urinals,
    independent from their location and indepent from their hygienic condition. As
    I already told in a former message, my father\u2019s urinal is just a by-product
    of his creativity. He simply invests his time in making art instead of cleaning
    his closet.\r\n\r\nb) If  beings capable of suffering are misused, the creative
    process is immoral, but not necessarily the object of art.\r\n\r\nc) If the portrayal
    of the violation of an tabu is superficial only without anything behind \u2013
    if the violation of an tabu <em>is</em> the message, I am likewise bored or amused
    about the simplemindedness of the creator. But it is not immoral. The methods
    can be immoral, but not the artwork. The violation of tabus is often inevitable,
    but it is never the basic message of artworks. Creators with a message are suspicious,
    anyway. A message is already something, that is reflected, but I am not interested
    in the message of the creator, but in the impact of the creation. So, go and stick
    up your \u201Cmessage\u201D to your ass, if your message amounts to nothing more
    than you. As Oscar Wilde wrote in the prologue of <em>The Picture of Dorian Gray</em>,
    \u201Cart is never morbid\u201D. And I am very sure, that Oscar Wild was able
    to see the beauty in the colors and structures and subtlety of mould. He did know
    the difference between self purpose and artistic necessity."
  created: '2011-03-09 10:53:04'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<em>In his entire life, Vincent Van Gogh sold just one picture.</em>\r\n\r\nYes.
    But that doesn\u2019t evince (Lol!), that objects, which are unrecognized as art
    during the entire lives of their creators, are unrecognized, just because the
    time is not yet ripe. Sometimes they <em>are</em> simply shit. And sometimes shit
    is recognized as art."
  created: '2011-03-09 11:12:45'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: "<em>And another one, who messes up beauty with aesthetics.</em> \r\nI don't,
    I just use common terms. \r\n\r\nWorks that \"break tabu\" are usually stupid,
    I agree. But anyway, tabu can be a medium, like painting or sculpture, so why
    not to work with it? Why to paint sunsets instead of breaking tabus? A well broken
    tabu can be much better than a landscape. "
  created: '2011-03-09 11:35:29'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Why to paint sunsets instead of breaking tabus? A well broken tabu
    can be much better than a landscape.</cite>\r\n\r\nTabus should not be broken
    just for dragging attention. Break a tabu, if you are driven to break it, or,
    if there is an artistic necessity to break it. But if you break it, skilfully
    break it. Don\u2019t break it, if you only envision potential reactions, which
    are not yours. And don\u2019t bore with banalities like masturbating or pissing
    in public. Don\u2019t bore me with your boredom and your artlessness. Don\u2019t
    mess up art with exhibitionism. The exhibition is only the platform, on which
    you get the feedback regarding to your creation. The quality of your creation
    does not depend from public (except the public is your material or an important
    part of the motor for a happening)."
  created: '2011-03-09 12:52:03'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/escher_4916.jpg]'
  created: '2011-03-09 13:25:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "<cite> > John Hudson - TS Eliot wrote of the moment, in writing poetry, when
    the poem came right with the sense of a box clicking shut, a perfectly manufactured
    fit of parts. I think a similar sense is enjoyed by the reader of the poem, or
    the viewer of a painting or the listener to a piece of music. </cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with the first part of this - there is a moment of completion. But when
    someone reads something I've written I hope the opposite happens, that the box
    clicks open, and the reader can take his own journey. The same is true of the
    music I write. I try to leave a scent, not a bottle of perfume.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2011-03-09 21:04:43'
- author:
    name: bowerbird
    picture: 116972
  body: "christopher dean's 15 years at art college paid off,\r\nas shown by his masterful
    escher meta-comment.\r\n\r\ngood artists borrow...  great artists rip shit off...\r\n\r\n-bowerbird\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-15 21:52:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "hacks swallow influences\u2026 only geniuses can digest them\u2026"
  created: '2011-03-16 03:26:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u2026 only geniuses can digest them\u2026\" \r\nand make something of
    their own out of it."
  created: '2011-03-16 03:32:17'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "You're referring to [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Piero_Manzoni_Artist%27s_shit.jpg|Piero
    Manzoni]] I gather?\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2011-03-16 14:19:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I heard that some of the shit cans were corroded and leaking over time.\r\nThe
    durability of art has always interested me.\r\nI did wonder about the fly \"painting\"
    by Damien Hirst.\r\nNow that I work directly in the digital medium, it seems that
    my work should last perfectly forever, but there's a different issue, which is
    the nature of the output/playback medium. \r\n"
  created: '2011-03-16 15:29:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Now that I work directly in the digital medium, it seems that my work
    should last perfectly forever</cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://aworkinglibrary.com/library/archives/forever/"
  created: '2011-03-16 15:38:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: See also the <a href="http://www.paperinternet.org/">Paper Internet Project</a>.
  created: '2011-03-16 15:54:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There was a soul-searching article in <em>Wired</em> a few years ago (around
    the time of the dotcom bust?) \u2014 imagining the ultimate challenge for an engineer:
    to build a clock that would last for aeons. The author's conclusion was that if
    that is the brief, then a social infrastructure to help maintain it should be
    considered part of the design.\r\n\r\nFor fonts, however, it would probably be
    best to carve the code in stone and bury it in a pyramid tomb.\r\nOr engrave it
    on a metal plate and dispatch it to Alpha Centauri.\r\n\r\nThe point I'm making
    is that the shape of the letters (plus kerning and features), which is the pure
    the font (it's not a digitization of an analog artefact), exists independently
    of any particular output. It's code, like the \"text\" in books. "
  created: '2011-03-16 15:57:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>good business is the best art.</cite> [andy warhol]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nif
    you didn't get paid to do it, would you still do it? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-16 16:21:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>It's code, like the \"text\" in books.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich requires
    someone or something able to read it."
  created: '2011-03-16 16:44:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "<em>if you didn\u2019t get paid to do it, would you still do it?</em>\r\n\r\nSee
    the <a href=\"http://www.globalallianceartists.org/index.html\">Global Alliance
    of Artists</a>.\r\n\r\nI can safely say that more than half of the self identified
    artists I know wash dishes to support their art, seldom if ever exhibit, and rarely
    sell their work. They do it because they love it. Not for the money."
  created: '2011-03-16 16:48:27'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cosmoswide_5601.gif]'
  created: '2011-03-16 21:04:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I'm assuming that the binary coding of a typeface would be more accurate and
    durable than output, which would become sandblasted by micrometeoroids, leading
    aliens to ponder how much distressing is inherent in Earth types.
  created: '2011-03-16 22:58:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "Digital media can also become sandblasted by micrometeoroids. By the way,
    as far as I remember in Germany \u201Cwe\u201D still store knowledge on micro
    film for the apocalypse. Yes, <a href=\"http://www.dradio.de/dkultur/sendungen/fazit/820394/bilder/image_main/\">here</a>
    you can see \u201Cour\u201D memory of national culture."
  created: '2011-03-16 23:57:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<code>11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111\r\n11111111111100111111111111111000011111000111111110001111100011110001\r\n11111111111000111111111111111000011111110000111110011111100011111001\r\n11111111110100011111111111111000011111111000111110011111100011111101\r\n11111111111110001111111111111000011111111000111110111111100011111101\r\n11111111101110001111111111111000011111110001111111111111100011111111\r\n11111111011111000111111111111000000000011111111111111111100011111111\r\n11111110000000000011111111111000011111100111111111111111100011111111\r\n11111110111111100001111111111000011111100001111111111111100011111111\r\n11111101111111110001111111111000011111110001110111111111100011111111\r\n11111011111111110000111111111000011111110001110111111111100011111111\r\n10000000000110000000000011000000000001110000001111110000000000001111\r\n11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111</code>"
  created: '2011-03-17 00:09:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FourArts550_6245.jpg]'
  created: '2011-03-17 00:43:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I was able to confirm Art Blakey, Arthur Fiedler, and recognized Art Carney
    with no need to check... but the first person is not someone I know of. A search
    on "Arthur" yielded an Arthur Erickson who sort of looks like him...
  created: '2011-03-17 01:46:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Chris, that's best definition of "Art" I've ever seen :)
  created: '2011-03-17 01:50:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It is Arturo Toscanini, not Fiedler. Magical comedic actor Art Carney, pianist
    Artur Rubinstein, and the driving messenger Art Blakey
  created: '2011-03-17 02:06:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, Bill!
  created: '2011-03-17 04:05:19'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I have no idea what art is.\r\n\r\nI've thought about this question for awhile
    now and tried to reply but every time I do I reach a point of no words. Crazy
    stuff considering I was raised up in a master's studio who's work is held in private
    and public collections around the world ...and was my father.\r\n\r\nPossibly,
    I think that art is nothing more than an expression and the quality of that expression
    can be measured. Which is also perplexing, considering that there are many different
    measuring sticks.\r\n\r\nI wanted to create a statement on modern day consumerism
    - so I created colored bacon. And after many millions of views later, many millions
    tweets, facebooks, interviews around the world - I still don't truly know what
    art is. \r\n\r\nI still think art is just an expression.\r\n\r\nI've played /
    designed in architecture, fashion, graphic design and nothing I've done can define
    'art' as being nothing more than an expression. But having said that (whew) art
    has laws / rules / and regulations. No matter how 'natural' it may appear.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-17 06:48:15'
date: '2011-02-27 00:29:30'
title: What is art?

---
