---
author:
  name: traviskochel
  picture: 117022
body: "Chartwell is a family that explores the use of OpenType to interpret and visualize
  data. The font format is highly portable and can be used in any application that
  supports standard ligatures. The data also remains editable allowing for easy updates.\r\n\r\nMore
  info and licensing at http://tktype.com/chartwell.php\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chartwell-Pies_6623.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chartwell-Bars_3941.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Chartwell-Lines_5137.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Genius! :-)\r\nA very useful and clever idea."
  created: '2011-03-07 19:52:23'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "After Rebus Script from Ascender, this one is HOT in another direction.\r\nSmart!"
  created: '2011-03-07 21:57:27'
- author:
    name: mehallo
    picture: 109684
  body: Beautiful!
  created: '2011-03-07 22:43:46'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: Thanks everyone!
  created: '2011-03-07 23:00:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Really clever, Travis!
  created: '2011-03-08 00:22:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Just what I needed a week ago! Darn, I'd love to understand how this actually
    work. The number of shapes must be huge if there's going to be one from 1 to 100,
    one from 1 to 99 ... one from 2 to 100, one from 2-99 ... &c.
  created: '2011-03-08 00:22:36'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "Thanks\r\n\r\n@frode frank\r\nYeah, I ended up with 10,000+ glyphs for the
    Lines style, which created some interesting workflow problems. RoboFab was a big
    help though. \r\n\r\nI'm putting together a process, detailed how it works article.
    I'll be sure to post a link here when it's done. Until then, I'm happy to discuss
    via email, which can be found on the site. "
  created: '2011-03-08 01:01:31'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Impressive and very wise. Congratulations!\r\n\r\nThe only other font I already
    saw using OT features to build graphs is Crystian Cruz' [[http://www.typefacedesign.org/resources/A5specimen/2009/CrystianCruz_Quartzo_specimen.pdf|Quartzo]],
    but Chartwell went far beyond any known boundary. Although I can understand how
    pies are made, the a-Z holes and the lines are a mistery by now. Simply genius
    work.\r\n\r\n<em>Note</em>: there is a mistake in page 5 of Chartwell PDF. It
    says bars uses values 0\u2013100, but it actually supports 0\u20131,000."
  created: '2011-03-08 02:19:25'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: 'Thanks for pointing out the typo and Quartzo. I was not aware of his work.
    It''s very interesting to see another take on how the graphs could be implemented,
    and also the potential for designing a robust OT family for a specific industry. '
  created: '2011-03-08 03:17:50'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Wow. I am amazed. I need this.\r\n\r\nIf I set each discrete number in a
    different colour, do the pie slices take on that colour accordingly?\r\n\r\nVery
    very nice.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2011-03-08 07:32:32'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "If I set each discrete number in a different colour, do the pie slices take
    on that colour accordingly?\r\n\r\nAnswering myself: yes, just look at the PDF."
  created: '2011-03-08 07:35:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Is that rumble I just heard the news offices beating a path to Travis's front
    door?
  created: '2011-03-08 13:48:57'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: That's great, so many boring chart jobs could have been so much easier! Congratulations
  created: '2011-03-08 16:04:11'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "@tmac \r\nGlad you were able to figure that out. I'll perhaps have to make
    that a little clearer on the site. \r\n\r\nThanks again for the kind words everyone. "
  created: '2011-03-08 20:34:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Maybe a nice addition would be a non-3D bar style.
  created: '2011-03-08 21:16:03'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: A M A Z I N G. Period.
  created: '2011-03-08 21:21:24'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Or just separated bars on an x axis. Amazing.
  created: '2011-03-08 23:10:08'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "Noted. Thanks for the ideas guys. \r\n\r\nThe reason I went with horizontal
    bars, was so you could chain them together to create infinitely long values if
    needed. Vertical bars could be useful too though, if you wanted to have the graph
    in a textbox next to \"plain text,\" or if rotating isn't convenient.   "
  created: '2011-03-09 02:13:43'
- author:
    name: Pomeranz
    picture: 111526
  body: '[[http://www.typografie.info/2/showthread.php/24275-Artikel-Chartwell-Diagramme-setzen-leicht-gemacht?p=122015#post122015|Here]]
    is a little video showing how Chartwell Pies works.'
  created: '2011-03-09 02:50:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Absolutely wonderful. This is innovative in a way I would not have even thought
    possible.
  created: '2011-03-09 03:23:54'
- author:
    name: Synthview
    picture: 121472
  body: Clever!
  created: '2011-03-09 09:03:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Then the advocate for the guy with a tail and pitchfork shows up. this is
    a well designed and apparently well executed idea that off-loads the difficulty
    of text-to-graphics from the input to the output. E.g. though the examples show
    nice little input and nice big output, the reality is that the input and output
    sizes are the same. So, one must make sure the composition remains in opentype
    savvy environments or else an output font must be created/subset to contain the
    right graphic. I don't think this is a big problem, since spell checking and other
    character specific functions are not likely to used after composition except in
    dynamic web environments. \r\n\r\nThe other devil of an issue here, I'm sure you've
    all thought of  is color, since nearly no one wants black and white, or monotone
    graphics of this kind."
  created: '2011-03-09 11:33:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>The other devil of an issue here, I'm sure you've all thought of is
    color, since nearly no one wants black and white, or monotone graphics of this
    kind.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe I don't want them, but I need them.\r\nAnd the example
    by Pomeranz (http://typophile.com/node/79792#comment-455041) uses colour without
    any problem."
  created: '2011-03-09 11:46:22'
- author:
    name: alienbreed
    picture: 115921
  body: Very nice indeed! Such a clever idea.
  created: '2011-03-09 12:18:03'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "@Pomeranz\r\nThanks for sharing.\r\n\r\n@dberlow\r\nThanks for the thoughts.
    It's good to hear some critical feedback. Yes, in the examples, the output has
    been scaled up. This was just a design decision to keep the examples simple, but
    perhaps it would be worth noting in the examples to be completely transparent.
    I'm OK with these only working in OT savvy environments. I see these as more of
    a tool to help designers create charts in their native design files. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as the scaling issue goes, it's pretty easy to change the pt size, just like
    any font. \r\n\r\nThis definitely is not ready for the web. I've got some ideas
    on how to use JavaScript to do the work of OT, in browsers not that don't support
    ligatures. But I think rendering is an issue, even on a Mac. The glyphs have to
    line up perfectly, or else you end up with gaps between values. I really don't
    have the manpower, or technical know-how, to manually TT  these, because of the
    sheer number of glyphs.\r\n\r\nAs riccardo pointed out, these aren't limited to
    black and white. You can give it any color you like. Whatever color is applied
    to the number, the related ligature glyph will take on that color. The decision
    to go with b&w was again, purely a design/brand decision. Treating it much like
    a standard type specimen, I thought it was best to keep it simple and show that
    these hold their own, even without color.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-03-09 19:04:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This is very ingenious, but it seems to be taking a sledgehammer to crack
    a nut.\r\nWhat is wrong with, for instance,  Adobe Illustrator in a workflow?
    Illustrator charts and graphs may be edited from data, preserving live dimensionalization,
    transformations and gradients: Chartwell presents a primitive and largely obsolete
    \"Illustrator 88\" style. Or is there some retro appeal to that simple look?"
  created: '2011-03-09 19:17:32'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "First, I should say that I approached this from an experimental angle. I
    was trying to see how far I could push OT to manipulate input data. Making it
    useful, was something I definitely wanted to achieve, but it was slightly less
    important to me.\r\n\r\nIllustrator does have useful chart and graph building
    tools. I think many people aren't aware of them, or just don't want to deal with
    them. Personally, I find them clunky and don't use them. \r\n\r\nBut say you are
    putting together an annual report in InDesign and don't want to have to go back
    to InDesign to make tweaks to the charts? Just one potential workflow time-saver
    I see.\r\n\r\nThere are a ton of options for making charts out there, and Chartwell
    isn't meant to be the end all solution. It's just another option, that may, or
    may not make sense with what you're trying to do.\r\n\r\nUltimately though, the
    next step will be pushing these into non-standard, and less mathematically calculated
    shapes. Taking advantage of the fact that I can draw any shape I want. Something
    that excell, and other chart making software isn't really built to do.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-03-09 20:49:21'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "Sorry, meant to say Illustrator\r\n\r\n\"But say you are putting together
    an annual report in InDesign and don't want to have to go back to <strong>Illustrator</strong>
    to make tweaks to the charts? Just one potential workflow time-saver I see.\""
  created: '2011-03-09 22:11:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Whatever color is applied to the number, the related ligature glyph will
    take on that color. \r\n\r\nIf that works and parts of the pie are colored for
    each value, I'm really impressed.\r\n\r\n>to use JavaScript to do the work of
    OT, in browsers [] that don't support ligatures\r\n\r\nthis is a real challenge.
    I wish you great success.\r\n\r\nOn parts not connecting, are the glyphs overshooting
    the widths, or right on the width?"
  created: '2011-03-10 10:46:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Using this for browser work is REALLY backwards. Consider compatability, the
    size of the fonts, the rendering issues ... We have canvas for a reason.
  created: '2011-03-10 10:49:24'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: When did IE get canvas?
  created: '2011-03-10 13:09:42'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>When did IE get canvas?</cite>\r\n\r\nSince (the forthcoming) IE9.\r\nThat
    said I'm pretty sure that there are more browsers that support canvas than ones
    that support ligatures."
  created: '2011-03-10 13:23:15'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "I licensed Chartwell earlier this week. Haven't spent much time with it,
    but I can confirm that it supports color.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chartwell_4062.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-10 16:06:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This reminds me of experiments I did a while ago, to try and program arbitrary
    nut fractions.\r\nI gave up as it was getting too complex, but having seen Chartwell,
    I think I could get it to work now. \r\n\r\nI can also see this technique being
    used to create multi-colour fonts: one would apply color to the parts in the default
    \"exploded\" view, and apply \"ligatures\" (or whatever feature is deemed appropriate)
    to bring the parts together. It would be smoother and more precise than the system
    presently employed by multi-color fonts, which IIRC all rely on layering of text
    boxes."
  created: '2011-03-10 17:59:50'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: ">>to use JavaScript to do the work of OT, in browsers [] that don't support
    ligatures\r\n>this is a real challenge. I wish you great success.\r\n\r\nIt's
    actually not that difficult. Just like OT 'sub x y by x_y' you can do a similar
    find/replace with Javascript. However you have to point to unicode, rather than
    glyph names. The problem is though, that I'd have to go back and give the glyphs
    a PUA, then organize those those into javascript arrays, which would serve the
    purpose of classes. Not a quick and painless task, but definitely possible.\r\n\r\nAnd
    like pointed out above, there are already much better systems for displaying graphs
    on the web. I think exploring this would only be useful if I end up doing a non-conventional
    graph design.\r\n\r\n\r\n>On parts not connecting, are the glyphs overshooting
    the widths, or right on the width?\r\n\r\nI just did some tests, using the native
    ligature support in Firefox 4, and am actually kind of surprised at how well it
    renders in Mac. Windows is pretty rough though. Screenshots below. Also\r\n\r\nFirefox
    4 on Mac\r\n[[http://tktype.com/blog/MacFF4.png]] \r\n\r\nFirefox 4 on Windows\r\n[[http://tktype.com/blog/windowsFF4.png]]"
  created: '2011-03-10 18:00:33'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "@nick\r\nI'd be happy to help you think through the logic of your code if
    you're still having trouble, or share some of the structure behind Chartwell.
    info at tktype.com"
  created: '2011-03-10 18:11:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Travis, but I have it figured.\r\n\r\nI had been working with a (relatively)
    small number of glyphs, using kerning to position numerators, the horizontal bar,
    and denominators, but was running into problems with some applications failing
    to recognize three glyphs superimposed, by means of negative sidebearings and
    large kern values.\r\n\r\nHaving seen the vast number of glyphs you have employed,
    I now think that a more robust solution to creating a large set of nut fractions
    would be to combine denominator and bar, so that one hundred glyphs would cover
    the \"bottom\" of all fractions up to hundredths, then one hundred numerators
    could be kerned to fit above, in two classes.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure there would
    be much call for such fractions by people using general layout apps, though. If
    such fractions were required, they would be using a math app anyway. But you never
    know."
  created: '2011-03-10 18:51:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...I can confirm that it supports color.\r\n\r\n...this is fantastic. And
    with the data remaining in the input, special little scripties can pluck that
    data out for captioning and linkage to the colors. . . "
  created: '2011-03-11 16:16:00'
- author:
    name: rosaiani
    picture: 109721
  body: This will make for a great semantic website + webfonts. Triple Kudos!
  created: '2011-03-11 21:51:03'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "Nick, I thought a little bit more about another way to solve your problem,
    and came up with this theory. I haven't tested it, and it has some kinks to work
    out, but it may be a good starting point?\r\n\r\nAssuming you've already got tabular
    arbitrary fractions. Also assumes a space before and after the fraction. \r\n\r\nYou
    really only need to know how many digits are in each the numerator and denominator.
    To do this, you could just swap classes with classes, and count.\r\n\r\nFigure
    out how many numerator positions you'd like to support, and create a class for
    each, plus a base. So for example, consider the fraction.\r\n\r\n2384/4890\r\n\r\nYou'd
    need to support four numerators and denominators. Create 5 classes and name them
    something like. \r\n\r\nnum_base [zero.sup one.sup two.sup...] all classes have
    exactly the same glyphs\r\nnum_one [zero.sup one.sup two.sup...]\r\nnum_two [zero.sup
    one.sup two.sup...]\r\nnum_three [zero.sup one.sup two.sup...]\r\nnum_four [zero.sup
    one.sup two.sup...]\r\n\r\nThen swap classes to count.\r\n\r\nsub space @num_base'
    by @num_one; Identifies first digit \r\nsub @num_one @num_base' by @num_two; identifies
    second\r\nsub @num_two @num_base' by @num_three; identifies third \r\nsub @num_three
    @num_base' by @num_four; identifies fourth\r\n\r\n\r\nPerform similar task for
    the denominators, except we'll count backwards from right to left this time, because
    the context with the fraction is most important. So...\r\n\r\nsub @denom_base'
    space by denom_one;\r\nsub @num_base' @denom_one @denom_one space by denom_two;\r\nsub
    @num_base' @denom_two space by denom_three;\r\nsub @num_base' @denom_three space
    by denom_four;\r\n\r\nSo in this example, we'd end up with space @num_one @num_two
    @num_three @num_four / @denom_four @denom_three @denom_two @denom_one\r\n\r\nNow
    we've got to center everything. It's probably easiest to just center everything
    around the numerator, but that may give you issues crashing into previous text.
    I'll let you figure out how to solve that problem, but I'm sure it's possible.\r\n\r\nSo
    first make the bars, with their varying widths to cover your options. If you give
    the fraction a negative left sidebearing, you can center it under the numerator.
    Then give it a negative right side-bearing, this can be used to center the denominator.\r\n\r\nA
    basic swap, with exactly the same number of digits in num/denom, you could do
    something like this.\r\nSub @num_four fraction' by frac_four;\r\nor\r\nSub fraction'
    @denom_four by frac_four;\r\n\r\nHowever to be a little more flexible, supporting
    varying numbers of digits, create four different versions of the fraction_four.
    each one with a different right sidebearing, to center the denominator. Then...\r\n\r\nSub
    @num_four fraction' @denom_three by four_frac_three;\r\n\r\nAnd cover all possibilities.\r\n\r\nLike
    I said, I haven't tested this, but maybe it will help? If it works, it could sove
    having to make ton of extra glyphs. The only glyph that would need alternates
    is the fraction bar.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-11 21:53:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I said, having the compound fraction composed of (at least) three superimposed
    glyphs, some with large negative sidebearings and kerning, created instances that
    were not correctly rendered in some layout applications.\r\n\r\nThat is why I'm
    contemplating combining denominator and bar. More glyphs, but perhaps more robust.\r\n\r\nHave
    you tested Chartwell in a variety of layout applications and platforms?"
  created: '2011-03-11 22:05:44'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "It's been tested in CS4 on Mac, CS5 on Windows 7, also Illustrator CS on
    Vista. \r\n\r\nI don't have a budget to license and test all possibilities, but
    fully plan on troubleshooting or refunding if problems do arise. One of the reasons
    I decided to launch this on my own, without MyFonts, was so I could keep a close
    relationship with customers and provide upgrades easily. \r\n\r\nI've had no complaints
    so far, other than a naming issue, now resolved.\r\n\r\nThere's no kerning in
    Chartwell, except in the alphabet, and I don't think the sidebearings are absurdly
    large. I would be interested to know what applications and systems you were having
    trouble in. Was the problem only appearing when glyphs had both kerning and a
    negative sidebearing?"
  created: '2011-03-11 23:08:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I can't remember.\r\nIt was around 2005/6.\r\nHere are a couple threads in
    which I mentioned my code.\r\n(Seems I'm off topic yet again!)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/28608\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16879"
  created: '2011-03-12 00:08:03'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: 'Thanks, I appreciate that. I''ll have to take a close look and see if there''s
    any potential for problems in my Chartwell. '
  created: '2011-03-12 00:15:05'
- author:
    name: Rasendyll
  body: Just amazing, Travis!
  created: '2011-03-18 12:58:33'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: "I finally got around to attempting an explanation of the structure behind
    Chartwell, <a href=\"http://tktype.tumblr.com/post/4343344341/a-not-so-brief-explanation-of-chartwell\">found
    here.</a>\r\n\r\nAlso wanted to point out a few issues that have come to my attention.
    <a href=\"http://tktype.com/chartwell.php#issues\">More info</a>"
  created: '2011-04-04 19:56:42'
- author:
    name: martinplus
    picture: 111615
  body: Neat!
  created: '2011-04-12 14:50:09'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Congratulations on the winning!\r\nhttp://letter2.org/"
  created: '2011-10-18 09:27:54'
- author:
    name: traviskochel
    picture: 117022
  body: Thanks Riccardo!
  created: '2011-10-21 02:48:56'
- author:
    name: thedezineboy
  body: "Does anyone know how to use Chartwell so that you can enter numbers with
    points? i.e.: 99.5\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2012-11-20 23:41:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think due to the way it works with OpenType, you'd have to round the numbers
    to whole numbers.
  created: '2012-11-21 14:17:58'
date: '2011-03-07 19:33:58'
node_type: forum
title: 'Chartwell: ligature activated graphing tools'

---
