---
author:
  name: LexLuengas
  picture: 121993
body: "On August 2009 I decided to make this book typeface.\r\n\r\n   While reading
  a book on September, I was caught by an ff ligature (I know, clich\xE9, but I can't
  change the facts), and for the first time I became interested in typography and
  design. I started to read a few of books about typography, including The Elements
  of Typographic Style (of course), taught myself calligraphy and began working on
  Rhetorica right away. The Regular and Bold style were constructed using exclusively
  FontLab. By contrast, the Italic style was based on my hand-script, and then fine-tuned
  in Fontlab.\r\n\r\n   After a pause of six months, now I had time to resume the
  design. The character set has grown, and with it my knowledge of the dynamic of
  shape has improved.\r\n\r\n   All kinds of comments are welcome. Main point it help's
  me build up Rhetorica. I'm sure I have something to learn from most people here;
  I just hope they share their knowledge to me c:\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe most recent
  SPECIMEN can be found [[http://www.fileden.com/files/2008/3/18/1822866//Rhetorica
  Specimen (15.11.2011)_2.pdf|HERE]]. (Sorry, I've had problems uploading it directly
  to typophile)."
comments:
- author:
    name: dhannah1000
  body: Very good! It has the charateristics of of Adobe Minion!
  created: '2011-03-08 13:24:32'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: Thanks! I think one of the most remarkable aspects of Minion is it's study
    on kerning and overall "color" of individual characters. I hope my experiments
    with Camille resulted as good as Slimbachs. Corrections are welcome!
  created: '2011-03-08 21:04:20'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Here are all variants of the ampersand:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ampersand_4048.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-12 10:42:06'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Top of G seems a bit hoverhanging.
  created: '2011-03-12 11:26:22'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "That's great work for a starter! I'm no pro, so feel free to ignore my comments
    ;-)\r\n\r\nLook at the width of your horizontals. For example the horizontals
    in E look thicker than O.\r\n\r\nThe tails in K R k need to be flatter at the
    bottom.\r\n\r\nThe tail in J is too short.\r\n\r\nRiccardo is right about the
    G.\r\n\r\nThe serifs in s are too thin, look at Adobe Garamond's s.\r\n\r\nFor
    a textface, it would make more sense to give c and f ball terminals.\r\n\r\nHistorically,
    the bowl of the a usually has a more vertically slanted look and is slightly narrower
    (see Adobe Garamond). Yours is not really bad, but consider the options carefully.\r\n\r\nb
    should be more flat at the bottom. Same thing for q. Most textfaces (again, see
    Garamond) have a small serif at the top of q. This is to prevent the u from looking
    too large next to the q.\r\n\r\narm of r is too long and has a weird terminal.\r\n\r\ntop
    of t is the wrong way around in the regular weight.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but that
    tail in x is horrible! Make it a serif.\r\n\r\ny terminal needs to be moved to
    the right. Try a Minion style terminal.\r\n\r\nThe positioning off accents need
    much more attention. Use Garamond or Minion as a Mask.\r\n\r\nI don't like the
    first ampersand alternate (top right in the pict above), nor the y alternate.\r\n\r\nAn
    ll ligature? I fail to see the beauty of that.\r\n\r\nf doesn't flow nicely in
    the tittle in fi and fj ligature.\r\n\r\nv and k are too wide in the italic weight.\r\n\r\nThat's
    A LOT of stuff to consider. Don't let it demotivate you. From what I can tell
    by what you've made so far, you're a quick learner. Look often and closely at
    other text typefaces. Take your time. \"A typeface is never finished, only abandoned\"
    You should realise that there's a good chance that you'll be working on this for
    a year before you reach a decent quality. Once you've accepted that you'll find
    it much easier to strive for perfection. I hope you'll find this useful and I'll
    definitely return to this thread (in the critique section, where it should be).\r\n\r\nI
    can't really help you on the copyright question. I suggest you make a new thread
    for that. This typeface is also called Camille: http://www.font-zone.com/download.php?fid=457\r\nNaming
    typefaces is a pain in the ass, I know.\r\n\r\nCheers! Jasper"
  created: '2011-03-12 18:56:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Top of regular roman /t/ isn't working. \r\n\r\n/7/ might lean a little too
    far right.\r\n\r\nI don't like that tight hook at the end of the little stroke
    of /&/ on the right. The ampersand variants without that (all but first and last)
    are better.\r\n\r\nThis is really nice work!"
  created: '2011-03-12 19:18:01'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Here are some considerations for the /a/ and the /e/. Tell me what you think:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_5219.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_3819.jpg]\r\n\r\nSample\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prueba_4031.jpg]\r\n\r\n@1995type,
    elliason\r\nI know the form of the regular /t/ was too venturous. There has been
    always an collaterally, orthodox version; I was just provoking c:"
  created: '2011-03-15 13:12:55'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "The second ones seem best.\r\nEspecially the shape of second /a/ reminds
    me of Fred Flintstone."
  created: '2011-03-15 13:42:52'
- author:
    name: Tristan Bowersox
    picture: 119242
  body: '#2'
  created: '2011-03-17 15:14:37'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yup, 2nd for both the a and the e.
  created: '2011-03-17 19:14:53'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Last two weeks I've had a lot of work revising the Regular alphabet of the
    typeface. Here are the results, hope you like it:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample_5786.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere
    are some individual characters compared:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sample2_3724.jpg]\r\n\r\nYou
    can also find the entire revised glyph repertory (PDF) at the top of my post."
  created: '2011-03-27 22:43:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking good! Those changes are almost all in the right direction for sure.
    That /f/ crossbar might now get a bit too delicate, though looking at it in running
    text would make it easier to decide. I think maybe the /Q/ tail is still not quite
    done...\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-28 00:10:20'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Here are some practices I did with the ligatures and some alternates. I'd
    love to hear your comments. (Perhaps the \xF1_i ligature isn't working, but who
    cares; I'm just doing all my mind comes up with).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ligatures_5631.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-28 14:40:50'
- author:
    name: georg
  body: "I like your plays on ligatures. For the \xF1_i ligature i\u2019d propose
    rather not to let it end in a ball but in something similar either to the terminal
    of the r_i or of the f_i ligature."
  created: '2011-03-28 19:00:44'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "It's going very well, congrats. I second Eliason opinion, your improvements
    are consistent and well done.\r\n\r\nYour |fi| ligature may be less round to keep
    more resemblance with original f sharpness. Have you tried to do the |Re| ligature
    with a curve R leg? |\xF1i| is creative, but the tilde would be a bit bolder."
  created: '2011-03-29 22:58:04'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I especially like what you've done on the /x/ and /&/. But maybe the bottom
    right stroke of /x/ goes a bit too low. Maybe that's desired maybe not. It should
    definitely show up better in a line of text because it may break the reading line.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not so sure about the /R/K/ alternates with angular tail. Because your type isn't
    really angular and seems odd. They should maybe be done more in a way that the
    /RU/ combination shows but maybe with a bit shorter stroke.\r\n\r\nHave you considered
    your /ri/ ligature to maybe lower the /i/ and hence also lower the ear of /r/.
    It wouldn't seem so stretched and over-exaggerated. Although /i/ shouldn't be
    too low because it may get distracting. So just a nice little shortening would
    do better to this ligature."
  created: '2011-03-31 10:33:39'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "I need some help about choosing the right shape for my fi ligature (which
    will serve as mold for the rest of the f-ligatures). Here are some thoughts:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fi_3685.jpg]\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I had some time to add small caps and redesign diacritics (lowercase,
    uppercase and sc), as well as retouching the whole character set some more. I've
    appended a concise Specimen."
  created: '2011-04-26 22:53:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Third one.
  created: '2011-04-26 23:20:51'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "Third one for sure.\r\n\r\nI think this is a beautiful typeface - congrats
    and keep going! My only (small) criticisms are:\r\n\r\n- The softness of the crossbar/aperture
    of the 'e.' It looks a little too friendly compared to the other letterforms.\r\n-
    The ear on the 'g' could be a little more rectangular, and less triangular. I
    would also shorten the bowl by a few clicks.\r\n- The aperture of the 'a' is a
    little too round and friendly for my taste, and it doesn't relate as well to the
    top stroke, which is lovely.\r\n\r\nAll in all, I'm really impressed - I would
    absolutely use this typeface myself. :)"
  created: '2011-04-27 15:32:30'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: 'The fi ligature: I like the smoothest one used in insignification. even smoother
    would be better. I just like quiet typefaces'
  created: '2011-05-04 14:22:46'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Since the last four months, I finally set aside some time to expand my character
    set prolifically. The development of the typeface had frozen in summer. I must
    admit it has been a demanding and meticulous task, to the extent that I almost
    give up. Two years ago, as the idea of making my own typeface was born, I wasn\u2019t
    even considering drawing an Italic companion. One year ago, I was decided that
    the character set of the family would stay in a modest minimum. But after I started
    drawing my Small Capitals, I wasn\u2019t resisting to add the Bold Italic version
    to the family anymore. The latter has unquestionably become my favorite amongst
    the four different variants; perhaps this is explained by the fact that it is
    the less \u201Csilent\u201D of his brothers, it is the clear evidence of my lately
    playful attitude towards contrast, but resisting not to isolate it apart from
    the clean, harmonious spirit of the typeface.\r\n\r\nOne of the most difficult
    and frustrating tasks I encountered was finding a name for the font. Nothing seemed
    suitable. Not until one month ago. Rhetorica is a name which I feel depicts the
    purpose of this typeface very precisely. I wonder what effect or impression this
    name has on different languages...\r\n\r\nRhetorica now covers the Adobe Latin
    3 character set, so I am proud to take into account a much wider range of languages,
    covering the vast majority of the Latin-Based CE forms. Additionally, I included
    Small Capitals with corresponding punctuation, as well as titling and oldstyle
    figures (both with tabular and proportional instances), fractional figures (numerators
    and denominators) ligatures and stylistic alternates.\r\n\r\nI'd appreciate all
    (or, should I say, ALL) kinds of comments: constructive, destructive, short, extensive,
    deep, superficial, &c. A specimen can be found at the top of the post.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TitleSmall_6125.jpg]"
  created: '2011-11-15 17:53:12'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "The name is interesting. Universally understood in many languages, it is
    related already to the subject of \u201Ccommunication\u201D, maybe speech is a
    bit distant from type, but I hope it has the mentioned benefits. Memorable name
    I think. \r\nHowever, I don\u2019t see a new specimen. "
  created: '2011-11-15 18:20:12'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: Thanks for your comment :-) I've just uploaded a specimen. Typophile gave
    me an error when I tried to upload it, so I did it externally. Sorry for that.
    I will do it the right way as soon as find out what causes the error.
  created: '2011-11-15 18:26:17'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "I chose the name mainly because of it's meaning in Spanish:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"f.
    Arte de bien decir, de dar al lenguaje escrito o hablado eficacia bastante para
    deleitar, persuadir o conmover.\" (Real Academia Espa\xF1ola)</cite>\r\n\r\nNevertheless,
    as Florian pointed out, I can't forget it's etymology, which is the art of public
    speech. I like the way the term has been generalized to the written language in
    Spanish-speaking countries, but I don't know if this has happened elsewhere. I
    was aiming at <em>rhetorical device</em> rather than <em>rhetoric</em> per se.
    Do you think the majority of people will also tend to misinterpret \"Rhetorica\"?"
  created: '2011-11-15 20:45:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking quite good. \r\nIt would be helpful to see settings that combined
    regular, italic, bold, and bold italic on the same line. Each has a rather different
    flavor to me, so I'm curious to see how they work together.\r\n\r\nMost or all
    of these are merely opinions to be taken or left as you wish:\r\nThe hook of roman
    /f/ hangs out pretty far (does that alternate rein it in a bit? what is your thinking
    on that?). \r\nThe tittles are both a bit too small and too low, at least in the
    regular roman.\r\nThe regular /x/ is fun but seems like it intersects too high.
    It looks to me like the / stroke could just use more slant.\r\nThe top of regular
    /t/ could be raised a touch, and/or the crossbar lowered a touch.\r\nIs the regular
    comma/apostrophe shape a little too curly?\r\nWhat a handsome pilcrow!\r\nI don't
    think that f\xEF ligature works. And to be honest, I'm not sold on any of the
    discretionary ligatures except maybe the more traditional /ct/sp/st/. Those longer
    tail alternates of /R/K/Q/ do work well, though.\r\nItalic /y/ is fun, but maybe
    not quite there yet. Could it use a little more weight in the descender? The dagger-like
    italic /f/ is also cool.\r\nThis is really impressive stuff. "
  created: '2011-11-15 21:15:25'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I really like this and am extremely jealous! \r\n\r\nAs far as a critique,
    I agree with eliason's above post and the alternate Q's tail seems off to me.
    It looks as though there is too much space between the /Q/ and the /u/. Maybe
    if you were to move where it stems off further right it might help\u2014or maybe
    it's just me. "
  created: '2011-11-16 03:29:40'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "Thank you for your kind comments! I agree with almost all of your remarks.
    I'm already working on it :-)\r\n\r\nCraig, yes, the /f/ alternate is contextual.
    I also see some imbalances in the regular /x/, but that is if it is seen alone.
    I designed it to collide its right neighbor, so you have to take into account
    that the imbalance disappears within running text... almost, because I agree with
    you after all that it can be polished.\r\n\r\nI will make my best to make you
    change your mind about the discretionary ligatures. I admit they are \"difficult\".\r\n\r\nJames,
    you are totally right about the alternate Q. I did the correction to the Q some
    time ago, but forgot to think about the alternate. Thank you very much! I try
    not to miss things like this by working very systematically, but errors can always
    sleep through.\r\n\r\nI will soon post an update of my corrections."
  created: '2011-11-16 22:13:06'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "I think it is time to rethink the tail of the /Q/. Here's my proposition:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuintessenceSmall_4067.jpg]\r\nIt's
    almost clear to me that it resembles better the style of the rest of the character
    set. What do you think? (btw. <em>Quintessence</em> was one of many names I was
    also considering for the typeface ;-) )"
  created: '2011-11-17 16:58:05'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: '[[http://www.fileden.com/files/2008/3/18/1822866//Juan Rulfo.pdf|Here''s]]
    some text in spanish combining all four different styles of Rhetorica, as requested
    by Craig. I''m looking forward to release the typeface in December c;'
  created: '2011-11-23 20:14:50'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "\"What about some ornaments?\" &mdash; I thought:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ornaments_6640.png]"
  created: '2012-01-14 18:02:44'
- author:
    name: Tosche
    picture: 113809
  body: "Hi Alexis,\r\n\r\nI just found your font on MyFonts and I have some things
    to say about it. First of all, remove Rhetorica from MyFonts immediately. Right
    now. And I tell you why you should.\r\n\r\nYour typeface is a ripoff of Adobe
    Minion. Any defensive action is futile as this is obvious to the eyes of the experienced.
    Here\u2019s why I believe this is a ripoff.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/alexis-luengas/rhetorica/regular/glyphs.html\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/minion/minion/glyphs.html\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>This
    is simply too well done for a first typeface (especially for a seriffed one).</li>\r\n<li>Most
    characters look way too similar to each other, especially the ones you didn\u2019t
    care so much.\r\n(e.g. \u03A9 \u03C0 \xA4 \u222B \u2211 \u221E and shape and position
    of diacritic letters)</li>\r\n<li>The ones that are different are poorly drawn.\r\n(i.e.
    the ones you reredrawn or added such as strange swashes, ligatures and ampersands)</li>\r\n<li>The
    characters rather unique to adobe fonts are included and they look almost the
    same as Minion\u2019s. Those things would never cross your mind if you are a beginner
    (but not a pirate) typeface designer.\r\n(e.g. ck ch smallcap fi fl ss and all
    the alternate numerals & punctuations)</li>\r\n<li>Your Italic too is Minion mixed
    with Palatino.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThere is nothing wrong about learning by referring,
    utilising, or even imitating the past work. It is surely an effective way to learn.
    However, it is unacceptable if you do not clarify your sources upon release. I
    personally recommend never to release such fonts because they are very likely
    to be similar to their references. This kind of work is a study material but not
    a creation.\r\n\r\nI guess you learned a lot about typeface design through this
    work and that\u2019s very good. But please don\u2019t release this pretending
    that this is your own work because it\u2019s not. It\u2019s Slimbach\u2019s. Make
    your own typeface next time. I welcome you to this field so much and honestly
    want to see your next work.\r\n\r\nLastly, it is sad that nobody on this thread
    has pointed it out before the release. No intention to blame anyone."
  created: '2012-02-05 09:04:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I'm afraid I have to agree with Toshi, it's clearly derived from Minion.
    There's simply no way an independent design could settle on the same x-height,
    caps height and extenders. The changes that have been made are whimsical small
    details applied without consistency. They also give the game away: they're handled
    badly and drawn much less confidently. The important design decisions made by
    Slimbach are evident: the way the strokes thin at junctions, the widths and proportions
    of most letters, style of serifs, spacing, errors with the ogonek connection,
    eszett with a spur etc etc.\r\n\r\nSome unfortunate buyer licensed the typeface
    and then complained on the <a href=\"https://www.facebook.com/myfonts/posts/316207625092324\">MyFonts
    Facebook page</a> that the uprights and italics have different linespacing. Really
    they ought to be refunded for having bought something that's pretty un-useable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-05 18:31:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Wow, sorry to see this. As far as this thread goes, it should have been much
    clearer from the start where this was taken from. '
  created: '2012-02-05 19:25:54'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "I didn't mean to offend anyone. I'm really sorry if my study in Rhetorica
    resulted in an offensive pastiche: that was far from any of my intentions. I have
    just written to MyFonts to remove the typeface from the webpage. I also profoundly
    apologize with Slimbach, who I admire and respect most of all; I apologize with
    all typographers from all over the globe, because it's insulting: insulting to
    the endeavor of typographers which deserves fair remuneration for the work, and
    insulting to typographers as artists. I will refund to the people who bought Rhetorica.
    This should have remained as a study. I'm also sad that nobody ever pointed it
    out.\r\n\r\nIf typography gives a me another chance, I will produce something
    genuine and worthy of being called art. I still want to become a good typographer
    and I think that have learned immensely while drawing Rhetorica and participating
    in this forum. I'm happy that such a rich community of great typographers is willing
    to share their knowledge. I really admire you and hope to someday be able to make
    amends with all of you.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nAlexis"
  created: '2012-02-05 21:53:38'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<cite>uprights and italics have different linespacing</cite>.\r\nI corrected
    that, but MyFonts published the old font files."
  created: '2012-02-05 21:59:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Alexis, I wish everybody in the position you\r\nfound yourself in were so
    gracious. Thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-05 22:27:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm glad and relieved to see apologies and amends rather than digging in
    and defensiveness. \r\nIf you're interested in improving in type design, I hope
    one of the takeaways for you from this situation is that the real substance of
    the endeavor resides not in the fiddly decisions on terminal shape or ligature
    invention, but rather in all the parts you bypassed by starting from Slimbach:
    proportions, vertical metrics, spacing, character of curves, etc. \r\nStart your
    next project from a blank file, be up front about the influences you are consulting,
    and I imagine \"typography will give you another chance.\" "
  created: '2012-02-05 22:51:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Learning from mistakes is the best possible response; as Hrant said, your
    honesty is admirable, and I take my hat off to you. \r\n\r\nThe best of luck to
    you with your next design."
  created: '2012-02-05 23:33:59'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "When this first came to light, I honestly didn't expect you to post again.
    In my opinion, your post really does show your character. We've all made mistakes,
    but how you have owned up to yours is admirable. \r\n\r\nI'll be looking forward
    to seeing your original work."
  created: '2012-02-06 00:43:29'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Oh come on. The FIRST response in this thread said \u201Cit has all the characteristics
    of Adobe Minion.\u201D\r\n\r\nIt has been said elsewhere on Typophile that \u201Cif
    you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all ... Silence is
    critique enough.\u201D This is good advice in most cases. \r\n\r\nBut there are
    cases \u2014 usually on the Critique forum \u2014 where people are engaged in
    acts of atrociously bad ethics or just flagrant deceit. And if people who know
    better \"don't say anything at all,\" then Typophile becomes a little more of
    a safe haven for that kind of bad behavior. \r\n\r\nIf minimum standards of civility
    are demanded of those who plan to critique the work of others, equivalent standards
    should be demanded of those who plan to post work. Right now there's an imbalance,
    leading to an implied policy of \"post whatever you want and don't worry that
    you'll have to take any heat for it.\" \r\n\r\nIn this case, Typophile encouraged
    the creation and sale of a font that was plainly a knockoff all along. I hardly
    think that's a very \"typophilic\" role for this forum.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-08 02:31:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Silence is critique enough.\u201D This is good advice in most cases.\r\n\r\nNo
    way dude.\r\n\r\nThe main reason I myself didn't say anything in this\r\nthread
    (I had glanced at it when it started) is that\r\nI didn't notice the strong similarity
    to Minion (one\r\nguy writing one line means little to me), because I\r\ndon't
    spend time analyzing boring fonts. And that's\r\nthe one attenuating circumstance
    here: copying\r\nsomething so mundane isn't nearly as bad as copying\r\na cultural
    cornerstone (like Legato for example).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-08 04:00:38'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I noticed the first post but I just assumed the designer wasn't just altering
    something that was already created; only that it had a similar influence or appearence.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I hope a lack of feedback doesn't mean the design is bad or else I might be in
    trouble with my typeface."
  created: '2012-02-08 18:55:10'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Gorgeous new Q! The typeface is looking very solid and strong. It's not the
    most unique and different design but I don't think every typeface needs to be.
    It's strong and I particularly like the design of the italics.\r\n\r\n> something
    so mundane isn't nearly as bad as copying\r\n> a cultural cornerstone (like Legato
    for example).\r\nHow often does Legato need to be mentioned? Is it really a cultural
    cornerstone?\r\n\r\nI think Minion is safe and dull. I haven't compared Rhetorica
    with Minion so I wouldn't know if they look anything alike, but I do think Rhetorica
    is playing it quite safe as well. Perhaps the moment for Rhetorica to shine is
    by use of its ligatures which are lovely. Rhetorica seems much more alive than
    Minion though."
  created: '2012-02-08 19:41:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Is [Legato] really a cultural cornerstone?\r\n\r\nI don't like sensationalism
    and idolatry. I don't use\r\nwords like \"genius\" lightly; I think words lose
    power\r\nwhen you misuse them.\r\n\r\nBut when something is this important, and
    people\r\nhave trouble grasping it, I feel like I have a duty\r\nto keep it in
    the mix.\r\n\r\nI've said this before, and I'm not kidding: to me\r\nLegato is
    the most significant single typeface\r\nsince Gutenburg's work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-08 19:48:06'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>And that's the one attenuating circumstance here: copying something
    so mundane isn't nearly as bad as copying a cultural cornerstone</cite>\r\n\r\nTo
    type designers of the future who might be reading this: copying glyphs out of
    someone else's proprietary font, making minor changes, and presenting them as
    your own work is never okay. There are no \"attenuating circumstances.\" Copying
    from fonts you find \"mundane\" does not make it okay.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 00:38:38'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "\"There are no \"attenuating circumstances.\" Copying from fonts you find
    \"mundane\" does not make it okay.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed. Copying isn't really an area
    with a lot of different shades of grey."
  created: '2012-02-09 01:06:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Everything in Life has shades of gray.\r\nEverything in Life <em>is</em>
    [shades of] gray.\r\n\r\nKilling somebody is Bad.\r\nGenocide is Worse.\r\n\r\nLive
    with it, don't theorize.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 01:18:55'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: I didn't say it was completely black and white; only that there aren't many
    situations when it is acceptable.
  created: '2012-02-09 01:23:55'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "> I've said this before, and I'm not kidding: to me\r\n> Legato is the most
    significant single typeface\r\n> since Gutenburg's work.\r\nI haven't seen you
    say this before, but that's quite a statement \u2014 especially considering it
    seems to neglect a lot of significant single typefaces between Gutenberg's work
    and Legato. I must say I'm incredibly impressed by Legato, but I'm just not sure
    if it's A method for a legible typeface or THE method. Two things are clear to
    me though: it does read very well and the variety in strokes is very aesthetic
    and lively. Is legibility the only factor to regard Legato so highly though? I'm
    interested in why exactly you speak of Legato the way you do. I'm personally not
    convinced type needs to evolve like Legato. I see it more as something aesthetically
    pleasing than a method to make perfect type. It's not like other typefaces neglect
    the interaction of black and white space, after all. Ultimately I find myself
    being more impressed by a typeface like Ideal Sans than Legato.\r\n\r\nI was just
    wondering where the talk about copying fonts came from though as Rhetorica seemed
    to have a genuine design process and similar to Hrant, I never cared to look at
    Minion long enough to see that Rhetorica is a modified Minion. I didn't read the
    middle part of this topic so I missed the climax. Quite a pity though, because
    as I said before Rhetorica seems more lively. Rather than abandon the project
    the letters could be redrawn with original dimensions (x-height, ascenders, descenders,
    cap height) \u2014 especially after Alexis' gracious apology."
  created: '2012-02-09 02:07:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the most concise and precise I've managed to be\r\nconcerning Legato's
    seminal nature is my mini-review of\r\n2004, quoted here: http://typophile.com/node/55783\r\n(The
    non-italicized second paragraph\r\nis actually part of the review.)\r\n\r\nIt's
    possible that focusing on single fonts is misleading.\r\nFocusing on genres is
    better; so for example I would concede\r\nthat the genre of Sans is probably culturally
    more significant\r\nthan Legato. However: is there a single Sans font that can
    take\r\nmost of the credit? And consider how significant a Legato <em>genre</em>\r\nwould
    be...\r\n\r\nSo, if we do choose to focus on individual typefaces, exactly\r\nwhat
    font is more significant, culturally? Ideal Sans? Charming.\r\nA workhorse. But
    a mere blip on the cultural radar.\r\n\r\nAll that said, nobody should think in
    terms of THE or \"perfect\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 04:32:52'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<cite>copying glyphs out of someone else's proprietary font, making minor
    changes, and presenting them as your own work is never okay</cite>\r\nAs Martin
    and hrant noticed, I never altered Minion. My work ended up being a thorough study,
    and focalized in Minion. Stared, compared, tried, failed, tried, failed. I learned
    a lot, I don't regret having worked in that manner. What was really nonsense was
    the idea of releasing it. I blindly turned my study into the \"knock-off\" it
    finally became.\r\n\r\nI encourage the analysis of different typefaces, and agree
    with hrant, that if you ever plan to do a typeface (not a study), it is very important
    focusing on genres, rather than selecting what you think that is the \"best representative\"."
  created: '2012-02-09 11:46:35'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I have read that review. I tend to agree with you there but then you're not
    blowing anything out of context in that review.\r\n\r\nMy main question now is
    how come type hasn't evolved since like Legato since Legato. Honestly, now that
    I find myself looking at and talking about more often I would love to do a typeface
    like it and especially a serif one, but I still think it's more of an aesthetic
    design than something which truly brings type to another level. I quite agree
    with William here:\r\n\r\n> I don't see Legato as a significant breakthrough for
    the future of type design.\r\n> Note for a start that Bloemsma's theory of Legato
    is not Hrant's theory. Bloemsma\r\n> was concerned to get 'flow' from one letter
    forward to the next, and correct the\r\n> tendency of Roman letters to turn into
    a picket fence--which is indeed a real and \r\n> important problem.\r\n\r\nThere
    have been several typefaces tackling various specific problems. I don't feel like
    Legato solves all problems, or a single one problem tremendously better than before.\r\n\r\n>
    However: is there a single Sans font that can take\r\n> most of the credit?\r\nNot
    to the extent that Gutenburg's work was revolutionary, no. But that's exactly
    my point. I don't think Legato could get much credit given the time and context
    in which it was designed in. Baskerville was ahead of its time, and the design
    of the grotesque itself was. I'm convinced Legato isn't going to make that kind
    of impact. For starters, you're about the only one I hear talking about it; I
    hear more from Museo for example. A Legato genre however could be very significant,
    but until that happens I don't care about Legato as much as you do. It's perhaps
    comparable to running into the LHC, accelerate and smash particles into each other
    one time and then come screaming out of the building you just discovered new physics.
    No, you didn't; Smash those particles another billions of times so it gains statistical
    significance. Equally, Legato alone does nothing more than impress people with
    its design, but doesn't win people over to adapt this method. Not yet anyway.\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing which both annoys and amuses me about Legato though is no matter how divine
    you think it is, at body text size you don't observe the stroke modulations anymore;
    you might as well have used an other typeface which battles the fencing effect
    for the body text.\r\n\r\n> However: is there a single Sans font that can take
    most of the credit?\r\nNot to the extent you're giving credit to Legato, I don't
    think. However, there are several sans which in my mind are incredibly refreshing
    (as is Legato) but not revolutionary. As I tried to explain with the LHC analogy,
    we need more experimentation and more typefaces like Legato to make it a revolutionary
    genre. Legato alone doesn't do it. Perhaps it would if it had optical variants
    with a more severe modulation effect in the body text variant, but would that
    really give it that extra push? I think it's brilliant theory which works in a
    much more vague and subjective sense in practice.\r\n\r\n> So, if we do choose
    to focus on individual typefaces, exactly\r\n> what font is more significant,
    culturally? Ideal Sans?\r\nI don't find Ideal Sans to be culturally significant.
    Perhaps Gotham to some extent but that's only due to its use in the presidential
    campaign and not because of Gotham's design (pretty much the same case with Helvetica).
    A typeface I thought was about equally \"revolutionary\" to Legato is Calluna.
    Since Calluna there have been a few typefaces with the same directional serifs
    but it didn't exactly impact the type design community in a big way other than
    to appreciate the refreshing new detail in the serif base. Equally, Legato might
    be forgotten if you weren't here to mention it so often.\r\n\r\n> All that said,
    nobody should think in terms of THE or \"perfect\".\r\nI agree, and that was my
    initial objection against your statement about Legato. Legato certainly helps
    modern type evolve, but to say it's revolutionary is an overstatement."
  created: '2012-02-09 11:56:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: hiccup
  created: '2012-02-09 12:10:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Legato pulled us back to the punchcutter's treatment of contour (shape and
    negative shape, really) separate from the tool. There's more, but my English isn't
    good enough to do it justice.\r\n\r\nGill, Syntax, Frutiger -- those (and prob.
    others) are the significant faces that paved the way for the humanist sans, and
    thus Ideal."
  created: '2012-02-09 12:19:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Martin, I think your wonderful last post deserves to be in\r\na better place:
    the \"What makes Legato so unique?\" thread.\r\nReplying to it here seems problematic
    and less effective.\r\nDo you mind moving it? We'd leave a marker here saying\r\n\"continued
    there\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 14:14:23'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Gill, Syntax and Frutiger were also \"revolutionary\" if you don't take the
    term too seriously. I've been pondering what it is about Legato which makes reading
    more fluid than Syntax for example, and I think it has to do with the general
    color. Obviously type designers value a good texture and color, and humanist typefaces
    tend to deliver that quicker. I think I came to the right conclusion. What it
    is about Legato which makes it calm on the eyes is the fluidity.\r\n\r\nBut here's
    why I don't think Legato is necessarily the better way to design type. Legato
    really isn't clear, crisp and pure. Ideal Sans comes much nearer to that ideal.
    So there's a bit of a dilemma as to what makes a typeface more legible. Clarity
    or fluidity? I think there are arguments for both and it might be contextual,
    as this is also the reason why we have specific typefaces for books and other
    typefaces (sans or serif) for shorter texts or display use or whatever. I find
    myself leaning towards clarity rather than fluidity most of the time though, which
    is why I find Ideal Sans aesthetically more pleasing.\r\n\r\nLegato is \u2014
    when you look at individual letters \u2014 more a work of art than a typeface.
    It's fluid and humanist, and makes the other humanist sans serifs look more mechanical.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said this, I must take back a bit of my passion when I was criticizing Hrant for
    calling Legato revolutionary. I still think it's a bit of an overstatement, but
    I have to admit I haven't seen a sans serif typeface more fluid than Legato regardless
    of how many humanist/cursive elements the other sans serifs might feature. As
    such, maybe Legato really can be the beginning of a new genre I would call \"fluid\"
    instead of \"humanist\". "
  created: '2012-02-09 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: No problem. I will move the posts in a moment.
  created: '2012-02-09 14:25:00'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>I never altered Minion.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, that would have saved you
    a<em> lot</em> of work.\r\n\r\nThis is Minion 27,5 points, tracking -25 (transparent
    yellow), superimposed on a line from your first specimen (black), kerning turned
    off. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/camille_minion_5248.png]\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that people might be excused for thinking that you have worked directly
    on Minion. I could definitely not make something this close to an existing typeface
    just by eye. "
  created: '2012-02-09 16:36:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please note that Martin's two first posts of today\r\nhave now been replicated
    in a more suitable thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/55783\r\n(http://typophile.com/node/55783?page=1#comment-494418)*\r\nHopefully
    this thread will now be\r\nfree of this -delicious- tangent.\r\n\r\n* Note the
    trick BTW: to link directly to a comment on\r\na page after the first page, manually
    insert \"?page=n\"\r\nright after the node number, where n is one less than\r\nthe
    page number.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 16:46:12'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Thank you Sindre; I think that image speaks for itself.
  created: '2012-02-09 17:56:21'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: "<cite>My point is that people might be excused for thinking that you have
    worked directly on Minion</cite>\r\nI agree.\r\n\r\n<cite>Well, that would have
    saved you a lot of work.</cite>\r\nIt was about working, not saving work! I was
    more like a painter than a typographer. With that image you are confirming the
    nature of what I did: focusing on one single typeface. As I pointed out earlier,
    this typeface shouldn't have been released, and for that I feel foolish and ashamed.
    I'm indisputably in debt with typography.\r\n\r\nI'm really sorry Sindre and Ben."
  created: '2012-02-09 18:26:16'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "> I'm indisputably in debt with typography.\r\nDoes that mean we can expect
    another typeface from you? I honestly believe you could even still use your Rhetorica
    to develop it into a new typeface. You would have to do a lot more than just change
    details though. I would start by coming up with a concept; possibly something
    you haven't seen around before.\r\n\r\nSome of my typefaces are vaguely derived
    from other typefaces and I have 1 revival in development. Mostly though I try
    to find gaps in the market rather than base my typeface on an already existing
    and successful typeface. Without a concept I think there's little you can do.
    That explains why your changes were so subtle, because the concept was already
    defined in Minion."
  created: '2012-02-09 18:52:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you could even still use your Rhetorica to develop it into a new typeface.\r\n\r\nThis
    is dangerous, certainly as a second effort. It might even be\r\ndangerous a decade
    later after Alexis has -hopefully- released\r\nnumerous original designs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 19:02:43'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I admit it's dangerous business if you're not well versed in type \u2014
    or indeed at all. I was hoping Alexis would have received new insight after his
    project to first develop a concept before designing a typeface \u2014 whether
    that be a typeface from scratch or one modeled from Rhetorica.\r\n\r\nIf indeed
    this Rhetorica is taken as a base then I think it should first be stripped completely
    from all its curves, give it a new x-height and proportions, etc. I have to be
    honest though, you might as well start from scratch if you're thinking of using
    an existing typeface as a base."
  created: '2012-02-09 19:52:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant dangerous as in how people perceive him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-09 20:09:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I can't personally see much of a reason to adapt Rhetorica. I would hope
    if anything this episode has shown the futility of adapting an existing design.
    I'd really recommend drawing from scratch: that's a much better way to learn how
    to make design decisions about proportion, rhythm and typographic tone, and how
    to control curves. Those decisions are the fun part of the design process, testing
    ideas and seeing how they affect each letter, and how everything interrelates.
    For me the starting point needs to pose a question. Starting from existing curves
    precludes reaching a true answer, and curtails creativity.\r\n\r\nAlexis, I hope
    you haven't been put off type design, and I look forward to critiquing your next
    work."
  created: '2012-02-09 21:06:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Ben, he <em>is</em> drawing something! \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/89919\r\n\r\n(Alexis
    \u2013 I too applaud your gracious reaction here. Looks like a lesson learned
    in the best way possible.)"
  created: '2012-02-09 21:12:46'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I'm not saying there's potential in Rhetorica as we've established it's Minion,
    but it would be a pity if Alexis is being put off the idea of designing type now.
  created: '2012-02-09 21:22:33'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ah, ha. Let's see if I can follow through on that critique ;)
  created: '2012-02-09 21:25:58'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Good to see he hasn't given up.
  created: '2012-02-09 22:00:24'
date: '2011-03-08 09:46:20'
title: Rhetorica

---
