---
author:
  name: Grant Hutchinson
  picture: 128153
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontaid-v-540x120-typophile_5010.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
  Society of Typographic Aficionados is organizing [[http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/|Font
  Aid V: Made For Japan]], a project uniting the typographic and design communities
  with a goal of raising funds to expedite relief efforts after the recent earthquake
  and tsunami in Japan. We hope to be able to complete something akin to the [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontaid/coming-together/|Font
  Aid IV: Coming Together]] typeface, which was created to benefit the victims of
  the 2010 Haitian earthquake.\r\n\r\n<strong>Update!</strong> The project [[http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/|theme
  and submission guidelines]] have been posted.\r\n\r\n<strong>Update!</strong> The
  typeface now has a name \u2026 \u201CMade For Japan\u201D\r\n\r\nThanks in advance
  for your help.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014 Grant\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Sakura-themed fleurons and borders could work.\r\n\r\nAlso, I can't do much
    this week as I've got a full itinerary and am on the wrong side of the planet,
    but if you need help with anything after 3/19 drop me line at jp@dunwichtype.com"
  created: '2011-03-13 04:58:35'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: "why not ampersands again? there can be far more than just 26 or 52 glyphs.\r\neither
    way, I want to help out & be a part!"
  created: '2011-03-13 04:59:35'
- author:
    name: Anthony Noel
  body: How about ornamental initials?
  created: '2011-03-13 07:40:29'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@james</strong>\r\nI really like the idea of a cherry blossom motif,
    provided the fleuron-esque theme doesn\u2019t overlap the [[http://www.beadesigngroup.com/blog/archives/2005/03/fleurons-of-hope.php|Font
    Aid III: Fleurons of Hope]] project too much. We\u2019d really like to keep each
    of the Font Aid themes as distinct as possible, giving the contributors an opportunity
    to create fresh imagery.\r\n\r\n<strong>@matt</strong>\r\nThe ampersands were
    incredibly successful for last year\u2019s <strong>Font Aid</strong> project,
    but we want to push into new visual territory if we can. There is so much Japanese
    iconography available, even something as simple as the circle. For example, see
    the work presented on [[http://www.posterpage.ch/exhib/ex278jap/ex278jap.htm|Rene
    Wanner\u2019s Poster Page]] and [[http://dribbble.com/shots/128815--/rebounds|Dribbble]].\r\n\r\n<strong>@anthony</strong>\r\nWould
    you see contributors creating whatever initial they choose, or does it make sense
    to limit the characters to a specific set, such as \u2026 \u201CJ\u201D, \u201CA\u201D,
    \u201CP\u201D, and \u201CN\u201D, for example?"
  created: '2011-03-13 07:46:46'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Maybe emoticons/emoji? They\u2019re heavily used by Japanese and recently
    added to Unicode, too.\r\n\r\n(by the way, I was really hoping there would be
    a Font Aid for this)"
  created: '2011-03-13 10:12:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "@Grant\r\nI think the sakura theme could be pretty distinct as long as contributors
    are asked to stay away from more traditional \r\n\r\n@riccard0 \r\nDue to a lack
    of software/OS support emoticons/emoji could be a problem from a technical standpoint
    if we use the new unicode values. But they could all just be inserted into other
    slots."
  created: '2011-03-13 12:00:26'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I thought they simply will be inserted in more common slots (as for the ampersands).
    More so, since it would be difficult (and maybe even counter-productive) to force
    each design to target a single different emoticon.\r\nI mentioned the recent adoption
    by Unicode just because now they\u2019re acknowledged as single glyphs.\r\nAlso,
    since there are still few examples, it would add to the effort a role of inspiration."
  created: '2011-03-13 12:59:11'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: '! ! ! ! ! ! ! Maybe a font made all out of exclamation points? That says
    earthquake to me!!!'
  created: '2011-03-13 14:23:42'
- author:
    name: chank
    picture: 110359
  body: "Or how about \"Lend a Hand\" a font that is all made out of hands. \r\nWe
    could use the typographic fist to help people!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/75081\r\nDesigners
    love using hands in their designs,\r\nso it'd be a very useful font.\r\n\r\nThere
    are six index symbols in Unicode.\r\nBlack left pointing index: U+261A \u261A\r\nBlack
    right pointing index: U+261B \u261B\r\nWhite left pointing index: U+261C \u261C\r\nWhite
    up pointing index: U+261D \u261D\r\nWhite right pointing index: U+261E \u261E\r\nWhite
    down pointing index: U+261F \u261F\r\n(from wikipedia)\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-13 14:24:34'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@riccardo</strong>The idea of riffing on the style of emoji is an
    very interesting idea. However, I agree with you that we wouldn\u2019t want to
    try to assigning each participant a specific Unicode glyph to complete. However,
    there are enough [[http://surf-style.us/manual3.htm|emoji characters]] to go around
    \u2026 the variety of submissions could be quite phenomenal.\r\n\r\n<strong>@james</strong>
    The sakura theme still has me interested as well. It would certainly be a more
    cohesive set of images. Perhaps if we chose a small set of emoji characters to
    concentrate on. There are weather, nature, and emotion-related glyphs in the emoji
    range."
  created: '2011-03-13 14:29:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I like Chank's idea.  It is directed at the cause yet breaks new ground on
    the kind of glyphs.
  created: '2011-03-13 14:41:09'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "If the problem is having some sort of cohesion between submissions, I like
    the idea of \u201Clending hands\u201D (for example, there are several in the emoji
    list Grant linked to).\r\nBut I would vote against the fist as a reference (not
    just for the name ;-). As far as I know, in Japan (and several other Asian countries)
    it\u2019s considered at least impolite to point a finger at someone (and, in general,
    I think that \u201Cpointing fingers\u201D could give the wrong message)."
  created: '2011-03-13 15:25:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: For what it's worth, the international typographic spirit tells me we should
    make a font(s) of migratory birds and spring blossoms.
  created: '2011-03-13 15:33:04'
- author:
    name: John Boardley
    picture: 112920
  body: "First, thanks for this initiative, Grant.\r\n\r\nI like the sakura (\u3055\u304F\u3089)
    theme. In Japan the seasons are distinct and important, so perhaps something seasons
    related?\r\n\r\nAlso, though Japan has no official national flower, the chrysanthemum
    is a popular emblem of things Japanese."
  created: '2011-03-13 15:49:22'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Are there four plants/flowers we could work with to get the four seasons across?
    I could see cherries for spring, chrysanthemums for summer, and plums for winter.
    But I'm not sure what works for fall. Would the Japanese maple work for fall?
  created: '2011-03-13 16:35:24'
- author:
    name: benjamink
    picture: 117428
  body: I too like Chank's idea of hands/hand/lending a hand. Simplified and distinct.
  created: '2011-03-13 18:44:31'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: "if 'hands' (etc) was the theme, can it be expanded beyond 6 or so glyphs?
    this is my vote so far, but I don't want to see it limited.\r\n\r\nthe 'seasons'
    idea does seem to lend itself to more glyphs. as far as flowers, birds, insects,
    trees, & so on."
  created: '2011-03-13 21:00:29'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "I strongly favour the blossom idea. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s Japan! They are so
    fond of flowers and blossoms, everywhere. And: flowers are a unique symbol for
    sympathy and hope, people all over the planet like it. It will be a success.\r\nThe
    briefing could ask for glyphs from a single blossom to more elaborate vignettes
    \u2026\r\n\r\nHand signs always denote certain gestures or expressions. Diffently
    perceived in various parts of the world. There are culture-sensitive issues involved,
    that may add pitfalls to the project.\r\n\r\nLet us font a passionate bouquet
    of flowers. Let us all lend one glyph to it, one that surpasses our every-day
    routines. \r\n\r\nI visited Japan 21 years ago, for a longer time. I am so sad
    about this inexplicable scale of distress. What can a poor fontist do in the face
    of such a misery?"
  created: '2011-03-13 21:11:42'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: Does anyone have any contact to Japanese people who are in Japan at the moment?
    What about Japanese typophiles? What about Ray Larabie, who lives in Japan (as
    far as I know)?
  created: '2011-03-13 21:32:13'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>What about Japanese typophiles?</blockquote>\r\n \r\nRay Larabie
    reports that he is safe and well on his [[http://twitter.com/#!/typodermic|Twitter
    feed]], as does [[http://twitter.com/#!/ilovetypography|John from ilovetypography.com]],
    who is also in Japan.  "
  created: '2011-03-13 22:42:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I switch my vote to flowers and birds as well.
  created: '2011-03-13 23:38:50'
- author:
    name: Justin_Ch
  body: I think a font of flowers and birds would sell more than one of hands, and
    this is a project to raise funds.
  created: '2011-03-13 23:54:39'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flower_3817.png]'
  created: '2011-03-14 00:15:31'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "Hi Everyone,\r\n\r\nas many of my type friends know, I have been greatly
    influenced by Japan and my time spent there. I have 'adopted' family there and
    have a very fine thread of connections throughout the country and have spent a
    lot of sleepless evenings lately trying to connect with everyone there.\r\n\r\nI
    have recoiled from the shock of the emails from friends there and everything I
    am seeing on tv and online and am finally focused enough to do something. I am
    setting up a website and method to deliver the most money directly to organizations
    in Japan. This circumvents international charities and the inefficiencies associated
    with them. I have been conferring with friends in Japan as to their recommendations
    of what indigenous organizations there, in Japan, that need help. The first vetted
    organization is AMDA International (Association of Medical Doctors of Asia) amdainternational.com.
    I am researching with these same colleagues in Japan on a children's organization
    that could benefit and we are also in a position to give directly to the prefectures
    (in the U.S., 'states').\r\n\r\nI will be meeting with a bank willing to assist
    here in the U.S. (to handle wire transfers) and my contacts there in Japan will
    coordinate with CHUGOKU BANK, TOKYO MITSUBISHI BANK and YUCHO GINKO. My friends
    and family are primarily located in Takamatsu which is in Kagawa Prefecture on
    the island of Shikoku (the least negatively impacted island).\r\n\r\nThe website
    in process is sogojapan.org which in context, 'sogo' means 'total' or 'whole'
    or in line with the philosophy of 'sogo-fujo' which sees that humanitarian assistance
    is not regarded as a single, one-sided occurrence, rather it is seen in a cycle
    of reciprocating assistance giving a broader perspective of time and scope.\r\n\r\nI
    will be offering a direct line for smaller donations, will be selling a special
    recut of one of my existing fonts and will try to collaborate with a screenprinting
    group to print tshirts to sell as well and am waiting to hear back to see if I
    can get some help with some letterpress options I could put up for sale.\r\n\r\nAny
    monies collected would go through transparent channels and deliver the money DIRECTLY
    to the Japanese organizations there.\r\n\r\nI think I'm still a member of SOTA.
    I would be happy to help curate this project with anyone and see to it that everyone's
    time and effort has as much effect as possible for the people of Japan."
  created: '2011-03-14 00:21:28'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "oh, and insofar as subject manner to build on the notion of florals, etc.\r\n1.
    look at daimyo period textile patterns (not as limited to the typical sakura perception
    of Japan)\r\n2. there is a whole manga sub-culture that can be explored\r\n3.
    as well as the 'kawaii' cuteness culture in Japan (happy faces, cute big eyes,
    etc)"
  created: '2011-03-14 00:36:01'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Great suggestions all! . . . I'm also in favor of either the Flowers/Birds
    iconography or the Emoji suggestion . . . .\r\n\r\nI agree it is appropriate that
    the font should be based on iconography rather glyphs per se and FYI it should
    be noted all previous Font Aid fonts, regardless of glyphs were never limited
    to one unicode, they were simply slugged in all Latin Type 1 slots accessible
    to the most number of platforms and if there were more than 230 or so, there were
    multiple fonts created . . .\r\n\r\nStuart"
  created: '2011-03-14 01:23:59'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: How about if everyone makes whatever they want. To some people, Space Invaders
    are an important Japanese cultural icon to some while others may be more inspired
    by flowers, hands etc.
  created: '2011-03-14 02:59:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If emoji are chosen, I would encourage double-encoding them using both the
    new Unicode codepoints and some more easily accessible, e.g. ANSI characters.\r\n\r\nIt
    should also be noted that quite a lot of the emoji characters rely on colour.
    They were encoded in Unicode for the benefit of mobile telecom companies, providing
    them with a standard, efficient way to exchange emoji in text messages, but the
    expectation is that these would be displayed on devices using colour bitmaps,
    not TT/OT fonts."
  created: '2011-03-14 03:02:08'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "B&W versions of emoji here:\r\nhttp://www.unicode.org/~scherer/emoji4unicode/snapshot/full.html\r\n\r\nWhile
    a B&W emoji font may not be useful as an actual emoji font, it might be a decent
    template for dingbats."
  created: '2011-03-14 03:18:20'
- author:
    name: neil summerour
    picture: 110292
  body: "I agree with John and Ray completely\r\n\r\nJapan is a lot more than what
    we've suggested so far."
  created: '2011-03-14 03:40:56'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@neil</strong> Thanks for the offer of helping curate this \u2014
    and for instigating the other preparations in support of the cause. I\u2019ll
    be in contact with you via email or chat.\r\n\r\n<strong>@everyone</strong> Thank
    you for all the input.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CJapan is a lot more than what
    we've suggested so far.\u201D \u2014 Neil\r\n\r\n\u201CHow about if everyone makes
    whatever they want.\u201D \u2014 Ray</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe number of ideas presented
    here is extremely encouraging. I don\u2019t want to have this discussion bog down
    too much, given the time sensitivity of the matter. I believe that Ray and Neil
    have hit the nail on the head. The contents of the font should be thrown open
    to include anything relating to Japan \u2014 reflecting each contributing designer\u2019s
    connection to the event, the country, and the culture."
  created: '2011-03-14 04:42:00'
- author:
    name: Sulekha Rajkumar
  body: "My take on this is that whatever the theme, it should cater to designers
    who would buy the font not just to contribute to helping Japan, but also to use
    it. That way we'd be able to raise more money. Keeping that in mind, I like Chank's
    idea of exclamation mark, or lending a hand. I think a specific theme would raise
    more funds than people designing anything related to Japan. What do you guys think?\r\n\r\n-
    Sulekha"
  created: '2011-03-14 07:14:18'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I still think emoji would be the best in combining a sensible theme, freedom
    of creative choice and usefulness of the font. \r\nFor a different take, keeping
    it simple: what about a font of @s? \r\nIn the first hours after the event, with
    phones and other means of communication cut off, internet was the only way to
    keep in touch. Also, it\u2019s what we\u2019re using to make this project happen."
  created: '2011-03-14 08:47:26'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "You hear \u201CEmoji\u201D and think \u201CJapan\u201D \u2013 well then.
    \r\n\r\nSo, everybody throwing in some arbitrary selection of a few \u201Cemoji\u201D
    glyphs? Having 23 smiling cat faces and 14 hamburgers at the end? How will you
    manage this?\r\nHow is this going to be a useful font?\r\n\r\nThe pictographic
    additions of the recent Unicode launch ([[http://typophile.com/node/75120|some
    explanation here]]) is a rather complex matter, despite being ill-treated by silly
    terms like \u201Cemoji\u201D or \u201Cdingbats\u201D.\r\n\r\nA collection of 200
    birdies or blooms or @s would simply give me a choice to select from a tremendously
    rich stock if I had to embellish some distinct piece of design.\r\nIf I had to
    do some info graphics I doubt that there is much use for a font where the TRAM
    is from designer X and the BUS from fellow Y. (But perhaps you think more of smileys
    and bunnies \u2013?)\r\n\r\nThis is but my personal view."
  created: '2011-03-14 18:51:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I wasn\u2019t labelling the pictographic additions to Unicode in toto as
    \u201Cemoji\u201D. Just saying that emoticons where included in it. And that this
    subset could have been the theme for the font.\r\nAnd the problem of different
    styles for each and every glyph is the same for birds, bunnies, flowers, or smileys.\r\nI
    meant \u201Cuseful\u201D as in inspirational about how to tackle the design of
    these new glyphs (one thing you surely have already faced ;-)\r\n\r\nThat said,
    anything is good as long as it\u2019s soon.\r\n\r\nP.S.: I think the thread deserves
    handpicked status on the home page."
  created: '2011-03-14 19:47:47'
- author:
    name: Mans
    picture: 114961
  body: "\u201CYour personal interpretation of Japan in one glyph\u201D sounds like
    a decent spec.\r\n\r\nP.S. I agree with riccard0 that this should be handpicked."
  created: '2011-03-14 19:55:14'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>I think the thread deserves handpicked status on the home page.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    agree with riccard0 that this should be handpicked.</cite>\r\n\r\nMe too."
  created: '2011-03-14 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I'm down with Mans's \"Your personal interpretation of Japan in one glyph\"
    and Grant's \"anything relating to Japan\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-14 22:53:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: So how and when can we contribute?
  created: '2011-03-14 22:59:05'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: I'd like to know the same. I'm ready to get started on something.
  created: '2011-03-14 23:56:51'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "Ditto. \r\n\r\n>I'm down with Mans's \"Your personal interpretation of Japan
    in one glyph\" and Grant's \"anything relating to Japan\".\r\n\r\nI think there
    a lot of things that Japan can represent to different people. So this would probably
    work best."
  created: '2011-03-15 00:16:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nippon_3510.png]'
  created: '2011-03-15 00:49:56'
- author:
    name: rob_pratley
  body: "i agree with Sulekha and Andreas that a less open theme is a good idea -\r\n\r\nSomething
    that works almost as a library rather than a random selection of glyphs that vary
    in their usefulness: It may encourage more people to buy it if it has utility
    in everyday design work also, much as the 'coming together' ampersand project
    for Haiti did."
  created: '2011-03-15 10:42:25'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "As with all decisions via committee, this could go on for a while.\r\n\r\nre:
    usefulness\r\nIt is a charity fundraiser via the typographic community. If the
    intention is to have ready-made logos for lazy designers, then forget it. 'chindogu'
    might be a better approach and make the glyphs amazing yet unusable.\r\n \r\nIf
    it is to do some good, then post the guidelines and let it start."
  created: '2011-03-15 12:34:31'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "Arigat\u014D Grant"
  created: '2011-03-15 14:34:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Domo Arigat\u014D!"
  created: '2011-03-15 15:20:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-15 16:10:37'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I'm in, \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-15 16:19:56'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "looks like the train left the station while I was thinking up things to suggest
    :o)\r\n\r\nThanks Grant.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-15 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "Here's my first attempt. Maybe I'm taking the challenge too literally, but
    I liked this from the wikipedia definition:\r\n\r\n\" they cannot be regarded
    as 'useless' in an absolute sense, since they do actually solve a problem; however,
    in practical terms, they cannot positively be called \"useful.\"\r\n\r\nSo I give
    you the exclamenthesis, perfect for when you need to put something in parentheses
    and you REALLY mean it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exclamenthesis_4839.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-15 16:56:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jonathan, I think you need a 180 degree rotated version too, for opening
    parenthesis \xE0 la Spanish opening exclamation."
  created: '2011-03-15 17:14:56'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: I was thinking that, but I didn't want hog another glyph. Plus, I thought
    maybe it would be funnier if the phrase just had the exclamenthesis at the ned.
    We'll see!
  created: '2011-03-15 17:21:08'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: I don't want to make more work for anyone, but I'm wondering if it might be
    cool/funny/useful to have a little description about each glyph in the book. The
    Haiti project was self explanatory, since everything was ampersands; but here,
    with there being a lot more freedom, it would be nice to know what the designer
    was thinking with each glyph.
  created: '2011-03-15 17:34:44'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CAs with all decisions via committee, this could go on for
    a while.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSorry for taking so long to get back to this
    thread. Let\u2019s nip that little issue in the bud.\r\n\r\nFirst of all, thanks
    to everyone for the discussion and feedback.\r\n\r\nRichard, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chind\u014Dgu|Chind\u014Dgu]]
    is exactly the concept I\u2019ve had in my head since posting this, I just wasn\u2019t
    exactly sure how to communicate it. This typeface should contain a stream of creative,
    emotive, \u201Camazing\u201D \u2014 and yet, potentially unusable \u2014 glyphs
    reflective of each designer.\r\n\r\n<strong>Font Aid Glyph Submission Guidelines</strong>\r\n\r\nCreate
    a glyph that is your own personal interpretation of Japan.\r\n\r\n* You may submit
    up to three glyphs\r\n* Glyphs must be supplied as vector files only (not bitmaps)\r\n*
    Adobe Illustrator .ai or .eps files are preferred\r\n* Fontlab or Fontographer
    source files will also be accepted\r\n* Glyphs must be black and white only\r\n*
    Do not use colour, complex textures, or embedded bitmap images\r\n* Remember,
    simple is often better\r\n\r\nSend the following to <a href=\"mailto:fontaid@typesociety.org\">fontaid@typesociety.org</a>
    by <strong>March 25th, 2011</strong>\r\n\r\n* Final vector artwork file(s)\r\n*
    A short description of each of your glyphs (optional)\r\n* Your name (as you like
    it to appear on the project page)\r\n* Your country\r\n\r\nAdditional information
    and updates will be posted to the <a href=\"http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/\">Font
    Aid</a> page on the SOTA website.\r\n\r\nThanks again for everyone\u2019s input.\r\n\r\nNow,
    let\u2019s make an awesome typeface."
  created: '2011-03-15 17:54:46'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@jonathan</strong>\r\nThanks for the great suggestion. We were thinking
    about the book component of this project. You\u2019re absolutely right \u2026
    documenting some of the thought process behind each submission would be both interesting
    and more personal. I have updated the <a href=\"#comment-455773\">submission guidelines</a>
    with a request for an optional description for each glyph.\r\n\r\nI will posting
    these guidelines and other information on the <a href=\"http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/\">SOTA</a>
    website as soon as I have access to the server again. The airport wifi in Denver
    is blocking FTP transfers right now."
  created: '2011-03-15 18:02:49'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>\u2026 I'm wondering if it might be cool/funny/useful to have a little
    description about each glyph in the book. \u2026; but here, with there being a
    lot more freedom, it would be nice to know what the designer was thinking with
    each glyph.</cite>\r\n\r\nUseful? Cool?? Funny???\r\n\r\nIn this very hour they
    are sitting down with nothing left. \r\nAnd you are fuzzing about a silly bastard
    glyph, claiming wit for it.\r\nDo you think this will raise funds for the human
    aid needed?\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not my project, but I would consider a revision of
    the briefing.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-16 00:22:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I wonder if an unsealed pool of water for storing spent nuclear fuel rods
    is an example of chind\u014Dgu?"
  created: '2011-03-16 00:44:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<blockquote>...ingenious everyday gadgets that, on the face of it, seem like
    an ideal solution to a particular problem. However ... anyone actually attempting
    to use one of these inventions would find that it causes so many new problems,
    or such significant social embarrassment, that effectively it has no utility whatsoever.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chindogu_6456.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-16 00:53:10'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: "re: Andreas & cool/funny/useful\r\n\r\nHumor is important, and deserves as
    much celebration in bad times by those who can, in an effort to honor those who
    can not. Celebrate life if you can... Help in some way if you can... Fun & Funny
    obviously dose not mean to degrade or insult."
  created: '2011-03-16 00:58:44'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: ~[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typeaidV_6230.jpg]
  created: '2011-03-16 01:01:29'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "\"In this very hour they are sitting down with nothing left.\r\nAnd you are
    fuzzing about a silly bastard glyph, claiming wit for it.\r\nDo you think this
    will raise funds for the human aid needed?\"\r\n\r\nI'm positive that everyone
    who will be involved in this project is well aware of the horrible conditions
    in Japan. I would also guess that for many of the people involved, their willingness
    to help will not end with this project. In an effort to raise funds to help the
    people of Japan, I don't think it's in poor taste to celebrate something uniquely
    Japanese in a way that's in the spirit of that thing. So yes, I think we should
    be concerned with making it useful, cool, and funny if being useful, cool, and
    funny helps raise more money. I think it will."
  created: '2011-03-16 01:03:33'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "I have been receiving some comments outside of Typophile about the whole
    idea of \u201Cusefulness\u201D vs \u201Cchind\u014Dgu\u201D.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    we are attempting to create is something thoughtful, beautiful, and intriguing.
    If usefulness (or humour) springs out of the images that are created for Font
    Aid V, all the better. Remember, we are an extremely talented and empathetic community
    that can (and will) make wonderful things to help others.\r\n\r\nLet\u2019s just
    focus on that.\r\n\r\nThanks for listening."
  created: '2011-03-16 01:27:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I think it is more important to move on with the project than to beat on the
    concept brief as a committee. We have all been the committee rout, "Lay on McDuff!"
  created: '2011-03-16 03:39:51'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/prev next_3554.PNG]\r\n\r\nI made previous
    and next buttons. It's Showa-era squareness with a little temple roof curve. Luckily,
    before submitting it my wife walked by and noticed I'd drawn the wrong kanji (uni5148)
    for previous."
  created: '2011-03-16 05:21:12'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Humor is important \u2026 Celebrate life if you can</cite>\r\n\r\nSome
    out here know my sense of humor. I always smile if there is something funny.\r\n\r\nI
    was only wondering if the kind of \u2018ideas\u2019 will really be helpful.\r\nPerhaps
    I\u2019m too sceptic this time."
  created: '2011-03-16 07:58:44'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: "~ It is my natural tendency to get carried away...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typeaidV3_3957.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    internet tells me that the Noh mask- \"Ko-beshimi is used for sorrowful demons.\"
    so this seems appropriate, though I've never visited Japan, and I really know
    nothing of kabuki... I'm not sure if these abstractions of the mask would be seen
    as offensive in this context, but it is a connotative association for me."
  created: '2011-03-16 08:30:44'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: "~ Thoughts?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typeaidV4_6205.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-16 16:51:36'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "I love both of these iterations, Brock.\r\n\r\nNice balance of abstraction
    and subtlety."
  created: '2011-03-16 19:13:14'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Hi folks, here is one of my contributions based on the word \"ran\" which
    means \"chaos\" in japanese (see also the wonderful film \"ran\" by akira kurosawa)
    :\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g3814_5224.png]"
  created: '2011-03-17 11:50:24'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: IMHO Ray (Typodermic) is onto the right approach here - ability to use the
    font after the fact will help sales - sales help the people.
  created: '2011-03-17 12:21:49'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '@1895, I agree with you, in as much as I wish I hadn''t put my nonsense process
    up here... but, I think personal work can also be of use, and as a document of
    an attitude or a reaction to this event at this time, from this community, I think
    the collection itself can be pretty special, 5 years, 10 years down the road...'
  created: '2011-03-17 14:01:00'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I would just saying that, after submitting your glyph(s), you already can
    donate through http://sogojapan.org/ and receive a special cut of Angel Script.
  created: '2011-03-17 15:21:01'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: '@brockfrench - sorry I didn''t mean any disrespect.'
  created: '2011-03-17 16:57:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-03-17 17:08:53'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "First draft for my submission: N\u014D mask effect smileys\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nohji_4128.png]\r\nhttp://www.kasrl.org/noh_mask.html\r\n\r\nAny
    and all suggestions/critiques welcome :-)"
  created: '2011-03-17 17:27:43'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '@1985 - I know you didn''t. I didn''t take it as such.'
  created: '2011-03-17 18:17:16'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'I can''t wait to see how this font turns out. I love the idea of everyone
    doing their own thing for this project. Buyers might prefer it or they might not:
    we don''t know. Next time around, we''ll know. I have a feeling this approach
    is better because it offers something for everyone. Some customers will buy this
    font and find themselves doing a project where Japanese themed imagery is needed.
    Some will have a need for manga word balloons. Some will want a lone @ sign. Having
    a wider variety of glyphs to choose from should make the font more useful. If
    we would have stuck to variations of one symbol, a customer might use some of
    them but it''s unlikely that they''d use several. Give the customer a variety
    of glyphs and the chances of those glyphs being used goes up because situations
    which require their use will be more frequent. The more frequently glyphs are
    used, the more exposure they get. People who see designs using those glyphs might
    ask the designer where they got that arrow, noh mask etc. That can end up spreading
    the idea of Font Aid even further.'
  created: '2011-03-17 23:19:33'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CI can't wait to see how this font turns out.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMe
    either.\r\n\r\nIn additional to the sneak peeks in this thread, there are some
    gorgeous things being submitted \u2026 whether they\u2019re immediately useful
    or not is a completely subjective matter.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m convinced that throwing
    the doors wide open was the right thing to do."
  created: '2011-03-18 01:36:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My FontAid ampersand Haiti poster was featured in the USA Today photo Gallery
    in today's issue.\r\n\r\nhttp://usat.ly/fyQ9O9 via @USATODAY"
  created: '2011-03-18 03:14:53'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "\u201CI\u2019m convinced that throwing the doors wide open was the right
    thing to do.\u201D\r\n\r\nYep, exactly ; here is another submission:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g3857_5500.png]"
  created: '2011-03-18 09:41:23'
- author:
    name: joro
    picture: 119082
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/glyphMihok_5904.jpg]\r\n\r\nFormed from
    the first and the last letter of the word \"\u044F\u043F\u043E\u043D\u0438\u044F\",Japan
    in bulgarian, read \"yaponiya\"."
  created: '2011-03-18 21:43:16'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Here is my third contribution:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ran_4185.png]"
  created: '2011-03-19 09:49:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "My Japanese anti-nuclear flag design was picked up by the CND for their protest
    against nuclear power in London yesterday.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/350x_5679.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Way togo, John!!!
    created: '2011-03-21 15:49:57'
  created: '2011-03-21 15:02:38'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "There\u2019s a glyph I\u2019m toying with from time to time:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/at_4813.png]\r\nIt\u2019s
    an a-t ligature (as in @), which has an hiragana (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiragana)
    feel.\r\nBut, having maxed out the allocated slots with the above N\u014D masks,
    I will not submit it.\r\nSo, if anyone need some inspiration, please feel free
    to use and improve it :-)"
  created: '2011-03-22 00:35:56'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: "I know question marks were done in Font Aid II, but I\u2019m putting my focus
    on that character for this project. The incidents in Japan raise so many questions
    about that nation\u2019s future, and about what the rest of us will do regarding
    preparedness, nuclear power, etc. The glyph that I submit to SOTA will be all
    black, as the specs suggest; I\u2019m just showing a red circle to make the connection
    to Japan (overly) obvious.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/question-marks-Japan_6097.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Grant Hutchinson
      picture: 128153
    body: "<strong>@john</strong> I don\u2019t there\u2019s any reason why you shouldn\u2019t
      create a question mark, ampersand, fleuron, or what have you for this project.
      If the imagery fits, so be it.\r\n\r\nThanks again to everyone for showing your
      creative process and submitting your work.\r\n\r\nWe\u2019ve received over 150
      glyphs from 80 contributors.\r\n\r\nKeep \u2019em coming."
    created: '2011-03-23 22:25:47'
  created: '2011-03-22 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mine is inspired by the famous Hokusai block print of the wave.  The curves
    need more work than the one day I've given them but here is the basic idea. One
    in BW and the other in color.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nippon_BW_4408.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SunamiNippon1_4759.png]"
  created: '2011-03-23 05:02:58'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Nice stuff being done! I'm diggin' the developmental work too.\r\n\r\nNice
    use of the wave pattern Dez, lots of possibilities. "
  created: '2011-03-23 18:35:14'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_3749.png]\r\nThe first glyph
    combines two Japanese symbols for good fortune. <em>Maneki Neko</em> is a common
    ceramic sculpture of a cat with an upright paw, often holding a coin, inviting
    luck. Frogs are also associated with good fortune, especially in travel, perhaps
    because the word for \"frog,\" <em>kaeru</em>, also means \"to return.\" This
    frog, assuming the position of the beckoning cat, is a wish for good fortune to
    return to Japan.\r\n\r\nThe second glyph combines two vital traditions of Japanese
    art: the calligraphy of Zen Buddhist painting and the playfulness of contemporary
    manga comics. The form of the circle, called <em>ens\u014D</em>, is a common,
    polyvalent symbol appearing in calligraphy. Usually painted in one stroke, the
    painted <em>ens\u014D</em> is a particular and imperfect expression of the absolute
    and perfect. This happy <em>ens\u014D</em> has a face inspired by manga in the
    supercute \"<em>chibi</em>\" style. \r\n\r\nThanks to my daughter for editing
    suggestions and to SoTA for organizing the project."
  created: '2011-03-23 19:17:51'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newface_4429.png]\r\nNew improved ens\u014D
    face after further input from my daughter!"
  created: '2011-03-23 20:48:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess it is deadline time.  Here are my last efforts:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezSunami3bw_4053.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DezSunami3Color_3529.png]"
  created: '2011-03-24 03:38:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "After another days work, I think this is a better solution.  Still using
    the Hokusai wave idea but with an anguished Kabuki or perhaps Noh mask profile
    subtly emerging from the top part of the wave\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KubukiSunami3BWb_4404.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KubukiSunami-Color_6095.png]"
  created: '2011-03-24 15:10:13'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Here is my threefold contribution, as a sum up: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ran_series_pres_3739.png]\r\n\r\nI'm
    amazed by all contributions around here. The Font Aid V will be a great edition.
    How infortunate such catastrophe have to happen in order for us to work as a team..."
  created: '2011-03-24 16:24:02'
- author:
    name: Jos Buivenga
    picture: 111156
  body: "I designed a flower from four (identical) heart shapes. It stands for all
    the love and growth, care and help I wish for Japan and its people. Of course
    the submission had to be in black and white. I added the gradient later.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/heart-flower_5747.jpg]"
  created: '2011-03-24 18:18:14'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I tried to wrap my head around the concept for this project. The ampersands
    were much easier. I'm not certain that these are appropriate. The mask is based
    on a mask I made for my brother during his semipro wrestling days. They billed
    him as the shadow something or ninja something, I can't remember. I just remember
    looking at a lot of Japanese masks and helmet designs. Good, bad or indifferent,
    this will be the submission for the Fontry. I hope it helps.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/japanglyphs_3780.png]"
  created: '2011-03-25 14:17:07'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: "1) Magic ball - Things that Japanese made and do are magical. Magical philosophy
    of living.\r\n2) Japan gate - Famous torii stylized with sun and mountain.\r\n3)
    Clock - Same stylization of sun and mountain, in another context - respect for
    time in everyday life.\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ScreenShot546_5501.png]"
  created: '2011-03-25 15:33:25'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Ditto!
  created: '2011-03-25 16:48:06'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FontAidVsampleWeb_5002.png]\r\nHere are
    the glyphs I submitted. The first is based on the map glyph for hot springs that
    I modified to include heart shapes and it wounded up looking like a turnip. It
    works better in a color treatment. The other is a bean."
  created: '2011-03-25 17:53:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "@Grant.\r\n\r\nWas an email confirmation of receipt of entries sent out?
    \ I just want verification that they arrived?"
  created: '2011-03-25 19:01:16'
- author:
    name: fabian
    picture: 110503
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/andinistas_fontaid_2011_3_25_3520.gif]'
  created: '2011-03-25 20:57:25'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: made my submissions. just in time. whew
  created: '2011-03-25 21:37:25'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: "[double post] \r\nis there an expected release date for the typeface? (I
    know its a bit early yet)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Grant Hutchinson
      picture: 128153
    body: "<strong>@matt</strong> Depending on how complicated the work will be to
      compile the hundreds of individual glyphs into a single file, I\u2019m anticipating
      that the final font will be available through various distributors by the end
      of next week.\r\n\r\nFingers crossed."
    created: '2011-03-26 23:39:28'
  created: '2011-03-25 21:46:29'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I hope my submission is not too late.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papercrane_4166.png]\r\n\r\nI
    made two glyphs representing a paper crane, one a silhouette and the other an
    outline. The two are combined in the picture above."
  created: '2011-03-26 00:17:02'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Ugh, I type like a third-grader sometimes.
  created: '2011-03-26 01:04:01'
- author:
    name: Vertex
    picture: 112106
  body: "My contribution to this outstanding initiative: \xBB[[http://www.flickr.com/photos/typoatelier/5560230200|The
    Chrysanthemum]]\xAB"
  created: '2011-03-26 12:42:01'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<strong>@chris, @riccardo, et al.</strong>\r\n\r\nI just wanted to let everyone
    know that your submissions have been received.\r\n\r\nWe didn\u2019t send out
    automated responses this year, as I wanted to make sure that I touched base with
    all participants as the submissions came in. Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending
    on how you look at it), our inbox was hit with an overwhelming amount of mail
    \u2014 and I\u2019m still catching up.\r\n\r\nI should be finished reviewing all
    of the files and starting the process of compiling the final OpenType font sometime
    tomorrow.\r\n\r\nWe\u2019ll also be sending out an email update to participants
    this coming week. And as always, the latest information will appear on the [[http://www.typesociety.org/|SOTA
    website]] and via our [[http://twitter.com/typesociety|Twitter account]]."
  created: '2011-03-26 23:40:58'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "From Tokyo - Safe here but it has been quite an unsettling and tragic couple
    of weeks for the people and the country!\r\nI illustrated a friend's poem on the
    events:\r\nhttp://www.ufufuo.net/writinginministry/It-tai.pdf\r\nI just saw this
    thread ...I assure you that the Japanese press and ordinary people are really
    heart warmed by all the support commiseration they are getting from abroad. I
    like Dezcome's designs of Hokusai's tsunami  - perhaps the red sun somehow transformed
    into a red tear (as in the Typophile logo?) might be appropriate? \r\nYes John
    this accident will become a rallying cry against nuclear power..hope that the
    world really learns to conserve energy and turn to safe sources."
  created: '2011-03-27 13:27:34'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Thanks for another great initiative. I thought I'd have to skip this but
    idea struck literally at the last moment...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ninastoessinger/5565181889/\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beautytransp_3856.gif]</a>\r\n\r\nBased
    on the kanji for Beauty, \u7F8E."
  created: '2011-03-28 06:35:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sunminusjapan_4021.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-30 22:29:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Nice one Hrant!
  created: '2011-03-31 03:06:49'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "There\u2019s a sneak peek of some glyphs over at http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/
    now."
  created: '2011-04-01 23:55:40'
- author:
    name: Jamieson
  body: Hrants post actually struck me.... its always the simple ones that work
  created: '2011-04-04 14:55:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you. A problem though is that it needs\r\nthose colors (especially
    the blue) to work best.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-04 17:31:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The colors are not really needed, Hrant, it works just fine for me in black.
  created: '2011-04-04 19:17:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I would say, it works best in black and white.
  created: '2011-04-04 19:45:54'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\nVery good. With regard to the colors I think, it works best,
    if either the blue or the red is replaced with white. And not in a square, but
    with the proportions of the flag. The combination of blue and red is clearer,
    but it is ugly and extremely aggressive. Much more aggressive than the total contrast
    of blue and orange in my opinion."
  created: '2011-04-08 23:00:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The colors *are* pretty ugly... And I guess it's \"aggressive\" too. But
    ugly and aggressive *do* describe [the effects of] a tsunami! :-/  However making
    the background a flag shape (in this case 3:2) is a very good idea. Anyway, what
    I submitted is of course a colorless, borderless glyph, so people will do with
    it what they like. That said, here's something hopefully more refined:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sunminusjapan2_5685.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW,
    isn't *Yellow* the opposite of Blue?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-08 23:24:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>BTW, isn't *Yellow* the opposite of Blue?</blockquote>\r\n \r\nWhen
    dealing with pigments (subtractive), orange and blue are complementary. When dealing
    with screens (additive), yellow and blue are complementary."
  created: '2011-04-08 23:34:36'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>Isn't *Yellow* the opposite of Blue?</cite>\r\n\r\nNo. Only in Photoshop.
    (Before I had posted my previous message, I had replaced the colors in Photoshop
    and I wondered, why it had inverted blue to yellow.)\r\n\r\nRed, blue and yellow
    are the main colors. Although the rgb model (red, green [but not yellow] and blue)
    works different on the screen, the complementary contrasts are these:\r\n\r\nRed/Green\r\nBlue/Orange\r\nYellow/Violet\r\nBlack/White\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, when I wrote, that the combination of blue and red is extremely aggressive,
    I also thought, that a Tsunami is extremely aggressive. But nevertheless it is
    also beautiful, if you have a look on it from a safe distance. It brings the death,
    but it is not ugly. In contradiction to that the combination of pure blue and
    pure red on screen is ugly in most cases, especially if the relation of the areas
    is so balanced. In case of your image I think, that the color harmony should have
    priority.\r\n\r\nI also dislike the combination of pure blue and pure yellow on
    screen. Red/blue (neither complementary in the pigment-, nor in the rgb-model),
    red and its rgb-complementary color (turquoise?) and green/violet are likewise
    ugly in my opinion.\r\n\r\nWith the darker blue it works much better."
  created: '2011-04-09 00:26:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wouldn't say \"only in Photoshop\" - in fact to me the Subtractive system
    is far less\r\n\"natural\" than the Additive. So I'm going with Yellow being the
    opposite of Blue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-09 00:41:41'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I think, we both are wrong. But I have not yet made out, where my error in
    reasoning is.\r\n\r\nAccording to http://colorschemedesigner.com/ the complementary
    color of #0000ff is #ff<strong>b</strong>f00. How would you call #ffbf00? On my
    screen it looks like a very decent orange. If I had mixed orange, it had looked
    more red. (Photoshop inverts #0000ff to #ffff00.)"
  created: '2011-04-09 01:57:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Photoshop inverts #0000ff to #ffff00.\r\n\r\nIn the RGB/Additive system;
    and those are pure Blue and Yellow. But converting to CMYK all kinds of things
    can happen, depending. BTW whenever you speak of 3\xD72 hex color codes you're
    necessarily talking about RGB (although those numbers could have come from a CMYK
    conversion).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-09 02:22:51'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "I am not sure. If I am in the RGB modus of Photoshop and invert the blue,
    it shouldn\u2019t be yellow. But maybe this is dependent from my preferences.
    Somehow I cannot imagine, that Photoshop makes these basic things wrong. I mean,
    the complementary color of the pure blue is not yellow. If I compare #ffff00 and
    #fffb00 directly, I recognize a big difference, at least if am not staring to
    long on blue."
  created: '2011-04-09 02:45:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But in actual emitted light, it's true!\r\nRed + Green + Blue = White; Red
    + Green = Yellow; White - Blue = Yellow; etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-09 05:23:30'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "<cite>But in actual emitted light, it's true!</cite>\r\n\r\nSure, but I think,
    that human beings have evolved in an environment, in which they primary have seen
    light, that was reflected from pigments. But wait, I think, this is no valid argument,
    because indirect light likewise adds up.  Light with different frequency always
    adds up and the reflection properties of different pigments always subtract. And
    the color of (the light reflected from) pigments is partly dependent from the
    color of the light, that irradiates them. \u201CIn the night all cats are black.\u201D
    This doesn\u2019t mean only, that they look black, but that they are black in
    the night. So the color of a pigment is a loose property, while their physical
    properties are very own. That\u2019s a very interesting theme. But we are off
    topic. We should discuss that in another thread."
  created: '2011-04-09 10:25:02'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: 'When I typed in #0000ff at http://colorschemedesigner.com/ last night, I
    did not recognize, that this adjusts the color scheme. It is a great tool, but
    it was twisted after my input. If you load one of the presets, namely the default
    preset, you really can find color pairs, that are percepted as complementary.
    But Hrant, I think color is an extremely complicated theme. In the end it is more
    a question of perception than one of mathematics.'
  created: '2011-04-09 12:00:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think color is an extremely complicated theme.\r\n\r\nIndeed - thank
    god for fonts! (Hey, wait, fonts are extremely complicated too... :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-09 15:00:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If a Rose smells as sweet as a Rose by any other name, does not a color look
    as it does even other some other name, number or classification system? Color
    is one of those creatures that, as Albers so well described, relies on its environment
    (light and the other colors around it) to \"be\" what it is. ;-)  You can add
    the perceptive proclivities of the viewer to that as well.\r\n\r\nHrant's form
    works quite well in the absence of color and does not change its meaning too radically
    when color is added.  With all the many possible settings of monitors and human
    perceptions, I have no idea what Hrant, Arno,  or anyone else is actually seeing."
  created: '2011-04-09 19:38:28'
- author:
    name: Arno Enslin
    picture: 117576
  body: "@ Chris\r\n\r\nI think, that I see, what was intended by Hrant:\r\n\r\n1.
    The symbolized rising sun (from the Japanese flag).\r\n2. The sea, which has flooded
    Japan. There is the shape of Japan coast in the disc. (Well, Hrant, you also could
    have cutted the disc with the shape of the North coast, since the Tsunami came
    from the South [or East].)\r\n\r\nThe Japanese flag is very memorable. If I would
    see a rectangle with a black disc in it, I would not directly associate Japan,
    but simply a black disc in a white rectangle. So I can comprehend, why Hrant insists
    in the red. Why should the flag be suddenly black? Because the Japanese are in
    teariness? I even don\u2019t know, whether black is the color of distress in Japan.
    But case it is, there seems to be much more hope than distress in Japan.\r\n\r\nSo
    with regard to the reduction to the basics, Hrant\u2019s idea is perfect."
  created: '2011-04-09 20:27:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the continued compliments.\r\n\r\n> you also could have cutted
    the disc with the shape of the North coast\r\n\r\nThe original idea (which I had
    waking up one morning - sleep is an amazing thing) was to use the Western coast.
    But besides making less sense it simply wasn't taking a big enough piece out of
    the disk/sun. Plus it seemed less like Japan - which brings me to this point:
    I think using anything less than the full length of the country would have made
    it almost impossible to see that it's an actual coastal shape; even the way it
    is, I'm having to tell [most] people. And as I've said before/elsewhere, I'm not
    a fan of the overly-subtle arrow in the FedEx logo!  :-)\r\n\r\nSpeaking of black/white:
    in India white is the color of a funeral.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-09 21:50:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arno, that is exactly what I saw as well.  By presenting the glyph as Hrant
    has, with no further forms, he has allowed much more flexibility in use for the
    glyph.  The rising sun was on many thousands of early Japanese artworks even before
    it became a flag. Japan is one of the few countries that has used a minimalist
    approach to things to such a degree that you can even say it has become a national
    trait. Think of the Haiku and the tatami mat and the elegant uses of minimal spaces
    in architecture seen there. It seems that the Japanese  ask more of their readers
    than we westerners do. Where many westerners would see an empty space as something
    that must be filled, the Japanese see it as something to cherish and behold. Perhaps
    being an Island Nation with no room for outward expansion, they revere unadorned
    space as something great and difficult to attain.\r\n\r\nAs for personal differences,
    I would immediately think of Japan with a black disk in a white rectangle.  I
    also see the Fedex arrow as so blatant and heavy handed as to seem like a cheap
    parlor trick.  Such is the difference of both human perception and the effect
    of our own culture and direct experience.  None of us is wrong in what we see
    yet each of us is most exactly accurate in what we see for ourselves. If not mistaken,
    I think that Tibet thinks of Red as a funeral color.  By leaving the glyph unadorned
    as Hrant has, the person who uses it to speak to an intended audience he is familiar
    with, has the opportunity to direct properly to that audience even if it confounds
    the rest of us. If you think of the absolute sense of the metric system compared
    to the English system of measure, you can not argue with the logic.  Good luck
    getting US Citizens to adopt it tough ;-)"
  created: '2011-04-09 22:39:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Also, I see no need to specify the exact coast where the damage was most felt.  It
    is a symbolic gesture not a literal one. Here we say "It is raining cats and dogs"
    although this has never happened. We still get the message even though it can
    never be close to literal.
  created: '2011-04-09 22:48:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">We still get the message even though it can never be close to literal.\r\n\r\n...which
    I think is irrelevant? In fact, I would go so far as to say, the farther one goes
    from a simple literal message, especially over time, cross-culture, and under
    such tragic circumstances, the less likely one is to have the faintest idea what
    impact complex symbolic messages might have on the intended audience. "
  created: '2011-04-11 14:59:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...the less likely one is to have the faintest idea what impact complex
    symbolic messages might have on the intended audience.\"\r\n\r\nThat is what visual
    communication professionals throughout the World are for.  The glyph Hrant created
    was like any other glyph in any off-the-shelf font.  The user of the font decides
    on what to use and how to use it.  The @ sign was never originally intended to
    stand for today's most common use of it.  Any of the ascii emoticon combinations
    popular today online are valid fabrications of users yet bear no resemblance to
    what their individual parts were designed for.  Type designers are the makers
    of visual tools which can be used or combined with others for use in any way the
    user sees fit. I would bet that every single normal alphabetical glyph from A
    to Z started as something far different in meaning than we use today.  \"A\" no-longer
    means bulls head.  This is just the ingenuity of humankind putting tools to work.
    \ That is not to say that users will always choose well and that every use will
    be perfectly understood by everyone. If someone is too lazy to go down to their
    basement to get a tack hammer and uses their conveniently located cell phone to
    pound in a tack, the phone maker is not at fault if the fragile device breaks.
    \ The user may well be satisfied with his choice of tool and the fact that the
    tack is indeed driven as desired no-matter what the rest of the world may think.
    Sure there can be consequences when unintended damage is done in the process but
    that does not mean a tool should never have an unintended use.  If there were
    a mother who happened to be wearing a very expensive silk blouse and uses it as
    a tourniquet to stop the bleeding of her injured child, would she not be willing
    to ignore the damage to her blouse in favor of the health of her child?\r\n\r\nYes,
    the type designer surely has not the faintest idea of what impact individual uses
    of the glyph might have, but that does not mean a cell phone, silk blouse, tack
    hammer or automobile should not be created.  Even if the proper tool was selected
    for brain surgery, it would be a horrible mistake to see it used by someone not
    highly skilled and capable.\r\n\r\nAfter reading this, I see I have written the
    classic example of an over-reaction to a harmless comment.--Sorry, David! :-)"
  created: '2011-04-11 19:27:46'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Any update?
  created: '2011-04-20 23:38:45'
- author:
    name: matt_yow
    picture: 119424
  body: I second the question.
  created: '2011-05-05 05:07:05'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "i made something in fontstruct..\r\nIt's for japan! Ganbatte Kudasai!\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nit's
    named \"Pray for Japan\"\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://fontstruct.com/fontstructions/show/452304\">Pray
    For Japan</a>\r\n\r\n(someone help me? i donno how to post some pics)"
  created: '2011-05-08 12:46:22'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>i donno how to post some pics</p></blockquote>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2011-05-08_4875.png]"
  created: '2011-05-08 13:56:37'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: omg, thanks riccad0. Nice to met u here and in fs :)
  created: '2011-05-08 15:43:10'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4398_5480.png]'
  created: '2011-05-08 15:43:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Will this project see release?
  created: '2011-05-29 02:52:37'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "An update from SOTA:\r\n<blockquote><p>\r\nIt\u2019s been quite a while since
    you heard from us about the Font Aid V: Made For Japan typeface. We\u2019re sorry
    about that.\r\n\r\nRest assured, we haven\u2019t forgotten about you. Things have
    been progressing \u2014 slower than we had hoped \u2014 but we definitely wanted
    to let you know what was going on.\r\n\r\nThe process of integrating the hundreds
    of glyphs that were submitted has been a massive task. We underestimated both
    the number of people interested in participating, as well as the sheer amount
    of work required to get the \u201CMade For Japan\u201D font assembled. There are
    currently three people working feverishly to put the finishing touches on the
    typeface, which we hope to have available in early June through several font distributors.\r\n\r\nWe
    apologize that there hasn\u2019t been more regular communication about the status
    of the Font Aid V project. We promise that will change very soon.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again to everyone who participated and helped us spread the word.</p>\r\n</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-06-02 11:03:24'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rememberfukushima_4784.png]\r\nJust because~
    I hope others will 'just because' here too...\r\nas incentive and/or encouragement.
    Be well."
  created: '2011-08-08 17:38:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Anything new on a release date, yet?
  created: '2011-08-09 00:05:43'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "SOTA says \u201Cvery soon\u201D:\r\nhttp://twitter.com/#!/typesociety/status/108044395982495744\r\n\r\nA
    sneak peek at the glyphs:\r\nhttp://twitter.com/#!/positype/status/84710589913509888"
  created: '2011-09-04 06:53:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks for the update, Riccardo!
  created: '2011-09-04 18:19:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So, wassup?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-25 20:05:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "News from SOTA:\r\n<blockquote>\r\nWe are pleased to announce that the Made
    For Japan typeface is finally ready! The font will be available through MyFonts,
    Fonts.com, Ascender Fonts, Linotype, and Veer within the next several days.\r\n</blockquote>"
  created: '2011-10-24 21:33:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Praise be to Grant and company for getting this suckah on the road!
  created: '2011-10-24 23:32:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can't think of any other event that makes me giddy to spend money!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-10-26 23:18:47'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: 'A colleague has just asked me a good question: anyone have any idea how much
    was actually raised by previous iterations of this project (say, for Haiti via
    Font Aid IV)?'
  created: '2011-10-27 14:16:59'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A good question indeed. More so since it is still on sale:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/foundry/Font_Aid/"
  created: '2011-10-27 20:41:13'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Of course. For \u201Cwas\u201D, read \u201Chas thus far been\u201D :^)"
  created: '2011-10-28 07:42:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Still no sighting of the new Japan version there.  Sometimes it takes a while
    for MyFonts to post it.
  created: '2011-10-28 08:35:44'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: Hooray! It's out. I'm making a purchase at [[http://marketplace.veer.com/font/Made-For-Japan-FIT0000001?skeywords=font%20aid|Veer]].
  created: '2011-11-01 14:37:46'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Great!\r\nShame the eventual timing coincides with the start of Movember
    though. Now there's a thought - a font of moustachioed faces...\r\n\r\nHmm: I've
    placed my purchase at Veer but it says \"download unavailable\". Anybody else
    getting that?"
  created: '2011-11-01 17:09:35'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: Yes, I am getting the same message, dtw. I am trying to be patient, on the
    assumption that the download link will work soon.
  created: '2011-11-01 18:00:43'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Here are the numbers. I did a presentation on this at Typecon last summer.\r\n\r\nFont
    Aid 1 raised $2000 for UNICEF \r\n\r\nFont Aid 2 raised $5000 for victims of 9.11
    \r\n\r\nFont Aid 3 had 3 components. The font itself raised $10,000. An additional
    $10,000 was raised through a project called Building Letters and another $12,000
    was raised from font vendors donating the proceeds from their top selling fonts
    on MyFonts for 1 month. The money went to help victims of the Indian Ocean earthquake
    and tsunami.\r\n\r\nFont Aid 4 raised $13,500 for victims of the earthquake in
    Haiti.\r\n\r\nCan't wait to see Font Aid 5 top these numbers!"
  created: '2011-11-02 03:32:04'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: 'I just purchased the font from Veer and installed it. I''m blow away by the
    quality of the submissions. The level of effort that went into this is very evident.
    Congrats to Grant and his team for getting this completed! '
  created: '2011-11-02 03:49:50'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: Thanks for the stats Michelle; and clearly the folks at Veer have fixed whatever
    the problem was that John and I were experiencing yesterday, as it's now downloading
    OK. :^)
  created: '2011-11-02 07:39:03'
- author:
    name: John Lyttle
    picture: 117549
  body: I'll ditto dtw's thanks to Michelle for the info about funds raised. Also,
    my download from Veer worked fine this morning. I've got it installed and I'm
    enjoying the examination of all those glyphs.
  created: '2011-11-02 14:24:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thank you Michelle!\r\n\r\nTransparent is the new black.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-02 15:49:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Are there plans for a booklet similar to the ampersand version?Or at least
    a pdf of one to include with purchase?
  created: '2011-11-02 19:42:49'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I very well hope so!
  created: '2011-11-02 20:29:21'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CPraise be to Grant and company for getting this suckah
    on the road!\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd what a road it\u2019s been. Oof.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CStill
    no sighting of the new Japan version there. Sometimes it takes a while for MyFonts
    to post it.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI\u2019m waiting to hear back from MyFonts
    this week, as well as Ascender/Linotype/Fonts.com \u2026 soon, I hope.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CI\u2019ve
    placed my purchase at Veer but it says \u2018download unavailable\u2019. Anybody
    else getting that?\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere was an initial glitch with
    the product data when Veer loaded the font into their system. It was corrected
    swiftly by the goodly Veer crew. Please let me know if you see any other issues
    and we\u2019ll get them fixed right away.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CHere are the
    numbers.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks for posting these, Michelle. I\u2018m
    thinking we should add this information to the <a href=\"http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid/\">Font
    Aid</a> background page on the SOTA site.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CAre there plans
    for a booklet similar to the ampersand version?\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
    love to do something like this, but I\u2019m swamped. I have been chatting with
    a designer about doing a poster featuring the entire glyph set, but we\u2019ll
    have to see. I\u2019m certainly open to suggestions.\r\n\r\nThanks to everyone
    for being so patient while this project dragged out."
  created: '2011-11-03 15:22:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Perhaps a fabric with the entire glyph set or even a quilt?  Possibly a poster
    printed on rice paper?
  created: '2011-11-03 15:34:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<EM>Please let me know if you see any other issues and we\u2019ll get them
    fixed right away.</EM>\r\n\r\nI've noticed on the Veer site that some glyphs seem
    to have zero advance width. (Type HHHTHHH or HHHSHHH to see examples.) Dunno if
    it's an error in the font or in the website's type tester."
  created: '2011-11-03 15:44:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bummer, I was really hoping to use it for an article in Ray Gun.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-03 16:34:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Now available on MyFonts too:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fontaid-v/made-for-japan/"
  created: '2011-11-06 19:48:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "S and T have no right side bearing.  The left sidebearing of U is 964 units--I
    assume that is not intensional. I opened the font in FontLab to check. \r\n\r\nI
    can understand how typing \"STU\" in succession would work as combination of 3
    glyphs to create a crowd scene but why not do it with either kerning or contextual
    alternates?  I assume most people who use this font will be rather surprised to
    find overlaps and huge spaces when they just type one of the 3 glyphs?"
  created: '2011-11-08 05:47:57'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: 'Chris: well spotted. In fact, two of the three characters have got cutout
    areas by their elbows to allow overlap. So perhaps the whole crowd should have
    been one big glyph?'
  created: '2011-11-08 15:44:12'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CSo perhaps the whole crowd should have been one big glyph?\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    series of glyphs were originally a single glyph, but it had to split up due to
    the number of nodes. There may have been a different way to approach splitting
    up the image, but this was the solution that Delve Withrington came up with. If
    it proves to be an issue for people, we could go back and release an updated font
    file."
  created: '2011-11-10 03:03:49'
- author:
    name: dmrise20
  body: "Thank you Michelle, \r\nI just came on this knowledgeable discussion and
    i want to share some point here. I have purchased the font from Veer and i have
    been installed it as well, it's working fine for me."
  created: '2011-11-21 10:57:00'
date: '2011-03-13 04:17:17'
node_type: forum
title: 'Font Aid V: Made For Japan'

---
