---
author:
  name: fontdesigner2
body: "Question:\r\n\r\nI'm about to try to sell my first font and introduce it to
  the world, but...\r\n\r\nHow do you protect your fonts from being stolen by someone
  who could take them and rename them, and claim that they were the original creator
  and sell them themselves or whatever they want to do with them?\r\n\r\nWhat measures
  do you take to protect your fonts from this kind of thing?\r\n\r\nThanks in advance.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: You can't protect your fonts from that happening. All you can do is wait for
    it to happen and then send a notice to the site hosting the font and hope that
    they take it down. If you're lucky the font will be posted to a site whose administrator
    will take the font down, or whose hosting company will yank the entire site. But
    if it's a pirate site in Vladivostok there's just nothing you can do about it.
    In some countries you can formally copyright the font to weight the legal morass
    in your favor; talk to a local lawyer to find out how it works in your country.
  created: '2011-03-18 04:42:51'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "You can't do anything against that.\r\nThe best thing to do is to be paid
    upfront, BEFORE releasing the font. \r\nCopyright, restrictive licences are good
    for lawyers, but you won't earn money with that, unless you have plenty of cash
    to suit all copyright infringers.\r\n\r\nAlternatively, just like me & my foundry
    VTF (www.vtf.fadebiaye.com), you set your typefaces free, and then, you don't
    care."
  created: '2011-03-18 05:24:02'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "You're relatively new here Ryan and I'm not sure if you've seen the LetterHead
    Fonts cautionary tale discussion that's been playing out here for a long time:\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/30452|http://typophile.com/node/30452]]\r\n\r\nI
    bought a LHF a long time ago, but am now leery about them as a source. I'm sure
    that's an overwhelming sentiment based on the many comments of others. Their product
    is great, but they've focused so much on thwarting piracy that they have in fact
    thwarted their paying customers to a greater degree. The net sum seems to be an
    overall loss even though LHF seems to dispute that.\r\n\r\nHow much effort and
    expense do you want to invest in preventing piracy versus investing that expense
    and effort into font design? I wouldn't advocate what Frank Adebiaye suggest above
    to just give them away, but I do think it's best to focus more on generating sales
    to paying customers rather than putting your efforts into preventing freeloaders
    from grabbing a pirated font. From what I've read it seems that preventing font
    piracy is like shoveling sand, a lot of effort with little gain."
  created: '2011-03-18 14:43:20'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "First of all, thanks guys for your responses.\r\n\r\nDunwhich - Nice fonts!
    I'm in the U.S. - a bad place to be if you design fonts. Other countries allow
    you to copyright fonts.\r\n\r\nFrank - I really love your font Rupture. Why do
    you not sell it? It's very original and I think it would make you money. So could
    your other fonts in my opinion. Of course I'm new to the font creation business.\r\n\r\nBlueStreak
    - That's interesting. The first thing I said aloud when reading this was that
    there's no way I would buy a font from them if I have to deal with those restrictions.
    I agree with you. I have heard a few times before that you shouldn't do anything
    to the actual font file to make it inaccessible to anyone - even if it helps to
    protect it. I wasn't going to try anything like that. \r\n\r\nI wanted to rephrase
    my question/s I posted earlier.\r\n\r\nWhat I am wondering is if I can find an
    affordable way to prove it's my design if I have to? For example, I may print
    it and mail it to myself, in case I needed to prove it in court, but I can't afford
    to take anyone to court, so\u2026 I'm trying to find something like this that
    would totally prove unequivocally forever that I was the one who originally created
    the font.\r\n\r\nI want to protect my fonts from being renamed and stolen from
    me. I'm in the U.S. - a bad place to be if you design fonts. Other countries allow
    you to copyright fonts. I have read an article saying that it is not possible
    to copyright a typeface through the U.S. Copyright Office, even if I wanted to
    pay for it. The article goes on to say that Adobe and Emigre have sued and won
    against a company that copied their fonts. \"\u2026you cannot copyright the design
    of the font, but you CAN copyright the PostScript program or TrueType data that
    draws it \u2026 So you can make your own fonts that look the same as another font
    without infringing copyright, but you can't copy another program or dataset that
    draws the font\u2026\" I guess that means in that America that it's totally legal
    to copy another font designer's design and there isn't anything they can do about
    it. How could this be?\r\n\r\nI hope that I can go through a good foundry to sell
    my fonts for me and also protect my fonts.\r\n\r\nI heard that companies like
    MyFonts can tell when a font designer has copied another font's data or point
    data or whatever, but how do you prove that you were the one who created this
    data in the first place? The font stealer could claim that you are the one who
    stole it from them, right? \r\n\r\nThanks in advance\r\n\r\nTags: font, fonts,
    design, protection, steal\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 05:17:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You can register a design patent for a typeface design in the USA, through
    the US Patent Office. This costs money (I don't know how much), and is for a period
    of 15 years only, but it is the only legal means to protect the <em>design</em>
    in the USA.\r\n\r\nA patent filing requires a disclosure of prior work, i.e. other
    designs that you might have referred to for inspiration; such disclosure doesn't
    prejudice the application, i.e. a design can still be patented even if it is based
    in part on prior art; failure to disclose prior art may cause problems later though,
    if you ever need to defend the patent in court. You should also keep the design
    private before it is patented, showing it only to other people under NDA. If someone
    does steal your design and you take them to court, their lawyers will almost certainly
    try to challenge your patent, so you really want to make the application as solid
    as possible.\r\n\r\nI strongly recommend discussing this with a <strong>lawyer</strong>."
  created: '2011-03-19 05:43:14'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI have a couple problems with the idea of filing a patent.\r\n\r\nFor
    one thing, doesn't it take a while for the patent to go through? I always see
    \"patent pending\" on products and I think that means the patent hasn't really
    been approved yet. If it takes a long time, I can't release the typeface design
    for a long time, (like you said, I should wait and not show it to anyone until
    it's been patented) and I would hate it if I had to wait a long time to release
    my typeface designs.\r\n\r\nAnother thing I wonder about is, would your U.S. patent
    protect you if a company in say, North Korea or Pakistan stole your design? I
    doubt it.\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice. I wasn't aware that a patent could protect
    a typeface design.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 06:31:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: There are different kinds of patents, and a design patent seems to be less
    hassle than an industrial or product patent. As I say, these are questions you
    should really be discussing with a lawyer, or you could contact the US Patent
    Office directly and ask them what the process is for obtaining a design patent
    and how long it usually takes.
  created: '2011-03-19 07:13:05'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "@fontdesigner2: thx for your comment ; vtf rupture is by jeremy landes-nones
    actually, not me ; we are studying a voluntary payment policy ; but we focus on
    the user's freedom to use ; if users want to pay, of course, we will accept money
    ; free does not always means gratuitous\r\n\r\n@bluestreak: interesting lhf story
    ; some type designers are really paranoid and confused ; typefaces are bound to
    convoy information ; information flows at high speed in the hyperspace ; so it's
    delusional to think we could prevent typefaces to flow likewise\r\n\r\ntype designers
    have to rethink their business, because people are already heading to free fonts
    (free and/or gratuitous)"
  created: '2011-03-19 08:26:34'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "I don't know how useful this is, but it's an additional option you might
    wanna look at.\r\n\r\nhttp://myows.com/"
  created: '2011-03-19 09:12:34'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: I don't suppose anyone reading this would know the cost of filing a design
    patent on your own without a lawyer?
  created: '2011-03-19 09:47:04'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "jabez -\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nThis site looks promising. Almost too good
    to be true? I'm gonna check this out and report back."
  created: '2011-03-19 09:50:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > I don't suppose anyone reading this would know the cost of filing
    a design patent on your own without a lawyer?</cite>\r\n\r\nLooks like the basic
    filing fee is $220. Can\u2019t say what else might be involved (e.g., examination
    fees, maintenance fees, etc.). You can research for yourself here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/qs/ope/fee2009september15.htm"
  created: '2011-03-19 12:52:35'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "<cite>In addition, the filing fee, search fee, and examination fee are also
    required. If applicant is a small entity, (an independent inventor, a small business
    concern, or a non-profit organization), these fees are reduced by half.</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2013<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/comment/reply/80145\">Design Patent Application Guide</a>\r\n\r\nIf
    this applies to you, you're probably looking at a minimum of $110 (filing fee)
    + $50 (search fee) + $70 (examination fee) at the point of submission.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 16:03:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "If you think you'll lose sleep over the thought of users stealing your fonts,
    you should probably pick a different business. \r\n\r\nAs to the issue of other
    type designers stealing your designs, it happens, but not very often. The type
    design community is small and you just don't that sort of thing if you want to
    be part of it."
  created: '2011-03-19 17:48:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: But how do you really feel about Gotham, Mark? :-)
  created: '2011-03-19 18:47:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>But how do you really feel about Gotham, Mark? :-)\r\n\r\nThere's a huge
    difference between (a) opening up a font, calling it something else, at selling
    it unchanged (or tweaked in a very minor way) and (b) designing a font that is
    similar in genre/letterform (with or without the significant influence of another
    font that it eventually evokes). When does it become stealing? Scenario (a) is
    stealing (in my head anyway). Scenario (b) is much less clear-cut.\r\n\r\nYou
    may want to strike me down for this but is there such a massive difference between
    reviving a font and designing a font that is similar to another recently released
    font? What timescale is acceptable? Why is a 200 year interval more acceptable
    than 2 years? Why shouldn't Carol have a slice of the pie that Adrian eating (I
    almost called it Adrian's pie but I'm not sure it is)?\r\n\r\nYes, it's bad luck
    that G is similar to P but is it any more <a>sinister</a> than that? Or has G
    just made a better fist of it than P (and its designer was quite entitled to have
    a crack at doing so)? Or are you saying that because Coca-Cola makes nice fizzy
    pop, Pepsi isn't allowed to try and do the same?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-19 19:30:47'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I wasn't implying anything about Gotham in my comment above. As far as I know,
    its similarity to Proxima Sans was just a case of two designers coming up with
    similar solutions from different starting points.
  created: '2011-03-19 20:20:32'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "After all, anyone knows Gotham is a knock-off of Avenir! ;-)\r\n\r\n(please
    note smiley)"
  created: '2011-03-19 21:11:50'
- author:
    name: apetickler
    picture: 112298
  body: "I have the impression that type people are a fairly hip crowd, all things
    considered, so it always surprises me to see type people twisting their brains
    around about these sorts of IP issues, as if completely oblivious to the lessons
    that have been made apparent by related struggles in pretty much every other creative
    industry since the Internet started shaking things up.\r\n\r\nIt's also worth
    remembering that strict IP provisions, as they exist in our society, are often
    not very helpful to creators. History is full of casualties like Johannes Gutenberg,
    Max Miedinger, and poor, poor TLC, whose work made much more money for other people
    than for themselves."
  created: '2011-03-19 22:26:08'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "I think I'm finally starting to find solutions to my dilemma.\r\n\r\nHere
    are some things that I've decided that font/typeface designers should probably
    do to have proof that they were the original creator, based on what I've been
    hearing from you other font designers:\r\n\r\nFirst off, I wanted to say that
    filing a design patent would help, but I believe the cost of this would be a lot.
    I'm seeing figures of $200 - $1100 (on some websites I've seen when you add in
    all the fees), maybe $2,000, and that's if you file it yourself and don't also
    pay an attorney, so I think that's unrealistic for me. And it also takes about
    a year.\r\n\r\n1. Trademark the name of the typeface (protects it's name anyway
    and isn't expensive)\r\n\r\n2. Before introducing the font to the world, prepare
    and launch the best press release possible. If an article about it can appear
    somewhere, it solidifies and documents the fact that you created the font, and
    the date that you introduced it to the world. Maybe even create and place an ad
    about the font somewhere in print.\r\n\r\n3. Upload your design to http://myows.com/.
    This looks like a pretty good free solution to me right now. I could explain what
    it is, but I recommend to any graphic designer or type designer or photographer
    to check this out. I don't know much about it yet, and I haven't started using
    it yet, and it may be too good to be true. I'm looking for opinions about it.\r\n\r\nThere
    may be something else too that I've forgotten suddenly, but here's three I have
    found so far.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-20 03:12:05'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "<em>1. Trademark the name of the typeface (protects it's name anyway and
    isn't expensive)</em>\r\n\r\nBe careful of the name. Do not use the name of another
    trademarked font as a whole or even in part. Others might take offense and seek
    legal recourse against you."
  created: '2011-03-20 15:05:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why is a 200 year interval more acceptable than 2 years? </em>\r\n\r\n1.
    Digital recontextualizations of metal types necessarily involve a lot of interpretation,
    given the disparity of the media.\r\n2. The idea of copyright protection for a
    fixed period of time relating to the holder's life is a long established principle,
    since the 18th century (displacing perpetual copyright). \r\n\r\n<em>\u2026it
    always surprises me to see type people twisting their brains around about these
    sorts of IP issues, as if completely oblivious to the lessons that have been made
    apparent by related struggles in pretty much every other creative industry since
    the Internet started shaking things up.</em>\r\n\r\nThe type person in question
    is a neophyte who would no doubt ask the same questions if he were venturing into
    ecommerce in music, photography, literature, whatever. \r\n\r\nThe issues are
    different in different industries, and the font business is unique and continually
    evolving\u2014hence the brain twisting. Other creative industries could perhaps
    learn some lessons from the font business. We've been doing digital for a while,
    since fonts on floppies, long before the Internet.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-20 16:41:53'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<Cite>Upload your design to http://myows.com/. This looks like a pretty good
    free solution to me right now.</cite>\r\n\r\nUnder US law, Myows is a misguided
    idea.\r\n\r\nFirst, they imply that anything you can upload is protectable by
    copyright. Not true at all. Not every original work (or every part of every original
    work) is copyrightable. And if it's not, uploading it to Myows won't make it copyrightable.\r\n\r\nSecond,
    while you don't need to register your work to get copyright protection, there
    are certain extra benefits under copyright law for people who do register their
    works. But you have to register with the only place that matters \u2014\_the US
    Copyright Office (www.copyright.gov). Registering with Myows won't trigger those
    benefits.\r\n\r\nThird, Myows doesn't point out that not every unauthorized use
    of a copyrighted work is necessarily infringing. If someone is making \"fair use\"
    of your work under copyright law, it's legal, and sending them a threatening letter
    is silly.\r\n\r\n\"But using Myows can't hurt, so what's the problem?\" The headline
    of the Myows site says \"Protect your copyrights, online and for free.\" Myows
    creates a fear that without their service, your copyrights are somehow at risk.
    But if people see Myows as an alternative to the US Copyright Office, that's a
    detriment."
  created: '2011-03-20 20:13:46'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: By the way, I'm not even clear how Myows helps you "prove that you are the
    creator" of a particular work, which they claim as one of the major benefits of
    their service. Nothing prevents me from taking someone else's work, uploading
    it to Myows, and claiming it as my own. So Myows is not an independent source
    of credibility. True, you can falsely register a work with the US Copyright Office
    too, but that's a federal crime, so false registrations are rare.
  created: '2011-03-20 20:33:04'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Are you worried that your currency might be counterfeit? Please mail us your
    currency, and we\u2019ll test it and let you know."
  created: '2011-03-21 21:46:18'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "\"Be careful of the name. Do not use the name of another trademarked font
    as a whole or even in part.\"\r\n\r\nThat makes me think of something. I'm thinking
    about starting a font design company/studio that has the same name as a font.
    I don't have a font by that name, but the studio would have the same name as someone
    else's font. Would the owner of the font be able to execute legal recourse against
    me and my company?\r\n\r\nbutterick - good points. So what do we font designers
    do to protect ourselves? I'm leaning towards doing the myvows thing just for the
    hell of it if I can't find something better. One thing I will argue with in your
    points is that someone else can't upload your stuff to myvows if you upload it
    to them first.\r\n\r\nI came up with another potential solution today. Digital
    signatures. Anyone know anything about these?"
  created: '2011-03-23 12:17:50'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>the studio would have the same name as someone else's font. Would the
    owner of the font be able to execute legal recourse against me and my company?</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    may or may not be legal recourse, but either way, it's not a way to make friends
    in the type industry.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>I'm leaning toward doing the myvows thing
    just for the hell of it if I can't find something better</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    it would've been helpful if I had suggested \"something better\" in my previous
    post.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>someone else can't upload your stuff to myvows if you upload
    it to them first</cite>\r\n\r\nSure they can. Myows doesn't check each new file
    against every existing file in its database to see if it's similar. It's completely
    relying on your word that what you're uploading is your own work.\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-23 15:58:39'
- author:
    name: ChrisJHuman
    picture: 122246
  body: "Hey Fontdesigner2 (and everybody else),\r\n\r\nThere's a lot of mis-information
    floating around about Myows and its applicability to US users. A lot of this I
    addressed a while back in a blog article on that topic: http://myows.com/blog/using-myows-in-the-united-states/.
    To put your mind at rest though Fontdesigner 2, putting your work up on Myows
    really does help you protect it by creating evidence and helping you chase up
    and deal with infringements. Like most evidence it's not indisputable  - in fact,
    in this case, it's what we in the legal world call 'Prima Facie' evidence (meaning
    as claimed or 'on the face of it') - but it really does count. It is the digital
    equivalent of posting the work to yourself in a sealed envelope - old school style.
    Unlike posting the stuff to yourself though - there have been a number of successful
    takedowns using Myows' process and a decent proportion of these have been in the
    good old U S of A too. We started Myows precisely because of the kinds of concerns
    you raised above and we've seen it really make a difference to Freelancers and
    creative guys on the street who can't afford a full time lawyer. Also, while most
    of Myows' services are free for the community, paid up members on Myows also get
    really reasonable assistance in registering their copyrights formally with USCO.
    Just some thoughts, I really hope these help. There are other services out there
    such as Numly and Safecreative which are also worth looking at but services like
    these really do provide a decent first line of defence and are worth using as
    they are free and have a proven track record of success. By way of disclosure,
    I'm one of the guys that started Myows. I'd love to tell you that I'm here to
    self-promote but Myows is really more of a movement than a business (I'm not quitting
    my day job just yet)."
  created: '2011-03-24 09:05:22'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>putting your work up on Myows really does help you protect it by creating
    evidence and helping you chase up and deal with infringements. Like most evidence
    it's not indisputable - in fact, in this case, it's what we in the legal world
    call 'Prima Facie' evidence (meaning as claimed or 'on the face of it') - but
    it really does count.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn the US, that's just not true. US copyright
    law (specifically, 17 USC \xA7 410(c)) gives special weight to registration certificates
    <strong>from the US Copyright Office</strong>. It doesn't give any special weight
    to Myows \"registrations.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>It is the digital equivalent of posting
    the work to yourself in a sealed envelope - old school style.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    the US, sending a work to yourself has no validity as a \"poor man's copyright.\"
    That's an urban legend. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.snopes.com/legal/postmark.asp\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>
    A lot of this I addressed a while back in a blog article on that topic: http://myows.com/blog/using-myows-in-the-united-states/.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nI can see numerous misstatements in this posting. For instance,
    that not registering through the US Copyright Office is only relevant in litigation.
    Not true. Or that registering multiple blog entries or photos with the US Copyright
    Office will cost \"serious time and money.\" Not true.\r\n\r\nPeople in the US
    who want full protection for their copyrights need to go through the US Copyright
    Office."
  created: '2011-03-24 20:17:25'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>How do you protect your fonts from being stolen?</em>\r\n\r\nBottom line:
    you can't. Period. The Conventional Wisdom says that Prostitution is the world's
    oldest profession. Well, it's not; Thief is. As long as people have had stuff
    worth stealing, thieves have been stealing it. Get used to it or, as Mark Simonson
    has suggested, find a new profession..."
  created: '2011-03-24 23:27:56'
- author:
    name: ChrisJHuman
    picture: 122246
  body: 'At the risk of turning this into a debate, I''d like to end with this and
    then bow out of this discussion. First up 3rd party non-repudiation tools such
    as Myows have led to successful takedowns (Myows included). They are also great
    tools for people who cannot afford to register every single work (some photographers
    for instance may need to register 160 works at the end of one day). The first
    of my statements cited above was that your Myows registration still counts as
    evidence. This is true. My statement was not that this evidence is as compelling
    as registration with USCO. For more on this visit USCO''s FAQ page: http://www.copyright.gov/help/faq/faq-general.html#mywork
    . Here you''ll find this statement amongst others... Q. When is my work protected?
    A. Your work is under copyright protection the moment it is created and fixed
    in a tangible form that it is perceptible either directly or with the aid of a
    machine or device.  You''ll also find: Q. Do I have to register with your office
    to be protected? A. No. In general, registration is voluntary. Copyright exists
    from the moment the work is created. You will have to register, however, if you
    wish to bring a lawsuit for infringement of a U.S. work. Bear in mind also that
    most infringement happens online and outside the US too and USCO has ne relevance
    in other Berne Convention countries. As per the blog article i cited originally
    - if you want to sue for damages, you''ll need USCO registration, but you don''t
    need this to have infringing work removed. Re the statement on poor man''s copyrights.
    I did in my original posting follow this up immediately with the sentence: "Unlike
    posting the stuff to yourself though - there have been a number of successful
    takedowns" - this alludes to the fact that the old school ''poor man''s copyright''
    was not effective so you''re agreeing with me there. On the final point, if there
    are any points which you would like to discuss further, please contact me directly
    and we will happily address these - it is not in our interests to have incorrect
    information on our site and while we always consult with US or international lawyers
    and copyright expert, we are happy to admit to and correct any genuine faults
    in our information.'
  created: '2011-03-25 06:41:14'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: "I still don't see a downside to using myvows if it only takes 5 minutes.
    They claim that they will help you prove that a font is yours if someone is uploading
    it to a free site and you want it taken down and you have to threaten the site
    owner that they have to take it down. However, if they don't help me protect my
    fonts I will spread the word about it, believe me. \r\n\r\nWhat I'm trying to
    do is build enough evidence that the font is mine to have it removed from these
    sites that post it up without my permission. Obviously I can't afford to sue anyone
    in court. My feeling is that along with a decent press release (and a print ad
    if affordable) this could work in conjunction with other things to build a case
    that it's yours. Often a case is not built solely upon one type of proof, but
    several, and the more types you have, the more solid it looks.\r\n\r\nBTW - everyone
    - if there is one thing in the world that I am sure of, it is that it's impossible
    to copyright a typeface design in the U.S. So I don't know why anyone in this
    forum thinks that that is somehow possible."
  created: '2011-03-27 12:04:09'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>if there is one thing in the world that I am sure of, it is that it's
    impossible to copyright a typeface design in the U.S. So I don't know why anyone
    in this forum thinks that that is somehow possible.</cite>\r\n\r\nNobody is arguing
    that point. In the US, the design of a font is not copyrightable. (A font design
    can be patented, but that seldom happens.) \r\n\r\nBut the instantiation of the
    font design as a digital file, including the placement of the points, and hinting,
    is copyrightable software. Therefore, copyright law and copyright registration
    are relevant to font designers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-27 19:26:16'
date: '2011-03-18 02:56:18'
title: How do you protect your fonts from being stolen?

---
