---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "An article on [[Typographica]] written by Verena Gerlach posed the question
  <a href=\"http://typographica.org/2011/on-typography/where-are-the-women-in-typedesign/\">\"Where
  are the Women in Type Design?\"</a> In response Indra Kupferschmid and I started
  creating a Listgeeks list of <a href=\"http://listgeeks.com/#!/view/female-typedesigner/by/kupfers\">Female
  typedesigners</a>. (You can also view mine <a href=\"http://listgeeks.com/#!/view/female-typedesigner/by/Typegirl\">here</a>.)
  After some back and forth it was decided that the list really deserved to be on
  a wiki and I suggested the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki\">Typowiki</a>. Thus
  allowing others to add those whom they believe belong on the list. \r\n\r\nAt first
  it was a list for those <em>currently</em> practicing as a type designer whether
  full-time, part-time, or only sometime. But after a large group of people kept suggesting
  Carol Twombly the list will now include any women who have practiced as a type designer.
  This list, I think, should not include students or those who simply work at a foundry.
  They must be\u2014or have been\u2014involved in the type design process (which includes
  production) \r\n\r\nA few questions:\r\n1. I've always written <em>type designer</em>,
  but Indra created the list with <em>typedesigner</em>. I wonder which is preferred?\r\n2.
  I don't think the list should include student type designers. But what do you think?\r\n\r\n<strong>[[Indices]]
  : [[Designers]] : [[Female Type Designers]]</strong>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Ha, didn\u2019t even notice I wrote \u201Ctypedesigner\u201D, unconscious
    Germanisation. Alas, one cannot edit the title of the list, but now it found a
    new and better home anyway. \r\nSo, I think \u201Ctype designer\u201D is the right
    spelling."
  created: '2011-03-30 22:18:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "- I would use this http://typophile.com/node/20643, replacing #2 with Female.
    I'd keep #1 because of the first word in the title of Verena's article. And without
    #3 it would be way too loose.\r\n- I'd say \"type designer\", two words. This
    is English, Indra.  :-)\r\n- Margo Chase.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-30 22:21:19'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: I know that a number of the lead designers at H&FJ are women.
  created: '2011-03-30 22:24:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Hrant, do they need to be alive? I think the point of this list has evolved
    into simply women who have designed\u2014or are designing\u2014typefaces. But
    I can see how a little more articulation might be a good thing."
  created: '2011-03-30 22:25:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Trevor, I think we've got the women at H&FJ represented. :)
  created: '2011-03-30 22:26:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: So does the alphabetizing by first name bother everyone?
  created: '2011-03-30 22:32:07'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Yeah, I can relate to Hrant\u2019s remark about #3. Now it got a bit too
    loose for my taste as well (and that\u2019s why I didn't add myself. None of my
    own typefaces are commercially available, the rest were only contributions or
    custom fonts.)"
  created: '2011-03-30 22:43:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The problem being that some of these women are known to be designing type,
    but their names are not associated publicly for one reason or another. Where do
    we draw the line?
  created: '2011-03-30 22:59:26'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<em>So does the alphabetizing by first name bother everyone?</em>\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    I much like lists alphabetized by first name; but I'd probably rather do it in
    a \xABfriendly\xBB environment where people tend to know each other by first name
    primarily. This being a professional context I'd prefer last-name sorting too."
  created: '2011-03-30 23:30:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, if you help their names become public that's a bonus!\r\n\r\n> who
    have designed\u2014or are designing\u2014typefaces\r\n\r\nMake up your mind.  :-)\r\n\r\nOh,
    and I would alphabetize by last name.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-30 23:32:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "We've changed the alphabetizing to keep it professional. But I'm with you
    Nina, I like alphabetizing by first name.\r\n\r\nHrant, the list should show anyone
    who has designed/produced type. Ever. And if someone has passed away I think we
    need to reflect that. "
  created: '2011-03-30 23:43:33'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Some old threads with several names:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/807 (!)\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/6414\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19397\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/29489\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/38754\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/71309
    (who was the first?)"
  created: '2011-03-31 00:33:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Great! Thanks for digging those up.
  created: '2011-03-31 00:50:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: If the idea of alphabetizing the list by first names occurred to those involved
    <em>because</em> it was a list of women, or at least it's possible that people
    might think so, yes, that <strong>should</strong> bother people.
  created: '2011-03-31 02:04:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'It had <em>nothing</em> to do with the fact that they are women. If I had
    my way I''d do all lists of people by their first name because I usually refer
    to people by their first name. '
  created: '2011-03-31 03:41:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "But there are so many people named John and William... but Baskerville and
    Caslon are much less common names. This is a major reason why lists are usually
    by last name; there is a much greater variety in surnames than in given names,
    and so the surname lets you proceed more directly to a specific individual.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    a given name is sometimes variable. Thus, Ivan Ivanov might also be known as Jean
    Ivanov in France or John Ivanov in Britain. For a real example, there's Zsuzsa
    Polgar... also known as Susan Polgar. Chinese people living in English-speaking
    countries often use an English given name as well as a Chinese one.\r\n\r\nWhile
    formality and dignity is no doubt <em>part</em> of the reason people are typically
    alphabetized by surname, there are good practical cataloguing reasons for doing
    it that way. Would you <em>really</em> want to have the local public library's
    catalogue order books by author under the author's first name first?"
  created: '2011-03-31 04:40:06'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Trevor Baum \r\n30.Mar.2011 2.24pm \r\nI know that a number of the lead
    designers at H&FJ are women.\r\n\r\nMiss Tiffany \r\n30.Mar.2011 2.25pm \r\nBut
    do they need to be alive? </em>\r\n\r\n\r\nVery unfortunate <em>sequitur</em>
    in this context. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Miss Tiffany
      picture: 110563
    body: erik, thanks for pointing that out. Out of context it is unfortunate.
    created: '2011-03-31 15:33:29'
  created: '2011-03-31 08:15:13'
- author:
    name: verena
  body: "Actually, my article was the response to Indra\u2019s earlier request for
    some names for her list. \r\nSince I\u2019m not sure about the point of these
    unmodrated lists, I decided to not search for actual (sometimes ancient) names,
    but more for the reason for what obviously is going wrong in our profession/society.
    \r\nI\u2019m quite afraid, that these lists might be mistaken by some people for
    \xBBproving\xAB the existence of females in the szene, even, they are sometimes
    already dead or just to be found on these lists. But not in features, articles,
    juries, on stage (see Typo London 2011, Raabs...), etc.\r\nAlthough, it is great
    to see, that the names on the lists are much more than just the excuse-dingbats-calligraphy-kitty
    designeresses, people mostly think of, when they say: \xBBbut there are women...\xAB"
  created: '2011-03-31 14:06:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Sherman
    picture: 112002
  body: "Instead of setting some limit on whom to include and where to make the cut-off,
    maybe the best approach is to do the most comprehensive list possible, then have
    a simple key of asterisks or lettercodes indicating for each person:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>whether
    they are living</li>\r\n<li>whether they have worked professionally as type designers\r\n
    \    <ul><li>if yes, when they last did so (\"currently\" being a potential answer)</li></ul></li>\r\n<li>whether
    they have published typefaces credited to their name\r\n     <ul><li>if yes, how
    many</li></ul></li>\r\n<li>any other variable that is relevant</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nDoing
    this will not only yield the most comprehensive documentation, but will also provide
    some clear distinctions without relying on judgements as to what level of accomplishment
    is more worthy of inclusion or not.\r\n\r\nOf course it'd be best to do this with
    a truly dynamic system that could be easily expanded on the fly (e.g. if you wanted
    to change the key coding system or sort order, automatically generate individual
    person pages, include font name credits, birth/death years, etc, etc), but this
    wiki entry is a good start."
  created: '2011-03-31 14:18:35'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Verena, I didn\u2019t request any names for any list. I just forwarded you
    the [[http://twitter.com/typographica/status/35208592063729667|initial question]]
    by Stephen. The idea of a list came much later after some less fruitful back and
    forth on twitter. And it isn\u2019t \u201Cmy\u201D list, actually I\u2019d rather
    like to stay out of the discussion since I don\u2019t quite concur with most of
    the points made. \r\n\r\nYes, in a way the list is here to proof that there <strong>are</strong>
    women working in the field of typeface design, to whatever extend. The question
    why they don\u2019t speak on conferences is a completely different one (one we
    shouldn\u2019t discuss in this thread).\r\n\r\nNick\u2019s suggestion to add some
    commentary is great in my opinion and better than having several overlapping lists. "
  created: '2011-03-31 15:10:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Verena, I have to say that your essay is highly unconvincing to me - ironically,
    as if it were written by a man! I expected more rigor, sensitivity, insight and
    balance. You do make an interesting point about the \"unfinishability\" of fonts
    and how that counters the female psyche (although I don't attribute that entirely
    to social conditioning). Furthermore, although my direct exposure to German culture
    is limited, I have had great indirect exposure, and in fact have been regularly
    impressed with how much respect women get in your country. Here in the US the
    passing of a *vice*-presidential *candidate* from *thirty* years ago is a big
    deal because she was a woman!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-31 15:20:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Indra, sorry for putting your name as being involved. I didn't know it was
    an issue.\r\n\r\nVerena, while I think that it is somewhat rude to downplay the
    work that the, as you put it, \"excuse-dingbats-calligraphy-kitty designeresses\"
    are contributing I don't see what the problem is. This isn't a list of only the
    cool kids.\r\n\r\nSo if I'm following you why didn't you title your article, \"Where
    are all the Women in Type Design who only design the highest quality fonts?\"\r\n\r\nSome
    type designers might need the help of others to do the technical side, some might
    start out that way and graduate into doing most/all of it on there own, some start
    out right in Fontlab, some can find there way around the FDK, and on and on. So
    yes, making a list means you can't limit it to just the so-called \"serious\"
    type designers. I'm a definitely one to promote strong typefaces. And I've even
    said that some typefaces aren't really typefaces but more just digital rub-down
    lettering\u2014although I was just being a bit of a jerk when I said that. But
    to NOT make a list just so you can avoid having to share that list with the gamut
    of female type designers is not right. There are no bad typefaces. Just typefaces
    appropriate for the job at hand. Sometimes all you need is a cute script for a
    headline and sometimes you need an full-featured OT workhorse font. \r\n\r\nBut
    I think there are too many people trying to keep up appearances. Everyone is here
    to learn. Everyone can grow and become better. Growth doesn't happen without output
    and hardwork. Output doesn't happen unless you release something. Sometimes what
    gets released is simple. But you know what? Sometimes simple is all you need.
    \r\n\r\nAnd further, why does someone need to be recognized, awarded, public,
    etc. to prove they are good at what they do?\r\n\r\nIf I've misunderstood you.
    Then I do apologize. "
  created: '2011-03-31 15:43:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I also think adding commentary would be good.
  created: '2011-03-31 15:54:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Let me just add that as a user of fonts I do appreciate quality fonts. And
    generally only license quality fonts. But in terms of the original article, I
    assumed Verena was speaking generally. I thought a list would be a nice way to
    recognize the fact that there is a growing list of women at different stages in
    their careers designing type. So I stand by the list. Maybe some research needs
    to be done to qualify everyone and adding commentary seems like a good idea. It
    is a sad day when we avoid making a list just to keep some people off of it.
  created: '2011-03-31 16:08:12'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "No worries Tiffany, misunderstanding. I\u2019m all for putting a comprehensive,
    collaborative (and commented) list on air."
  created: '2011-03-31 16:30:54'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Okay, I\u2019m going to suggest some flags/tags:\r\n\r\n\u271D = dead\r\n\r\n/
    = not practicing anymore\r\n\r\n* (or \u0192?) = full-time professional typeface
    designer (self-employed or employed at a foundry)\r\n\r\n\u2117 = published +
    number of faces, e.g. \u21173 for \u201Cthree typefaces commercially available
    under her name\u201D\r\n\r\nnothing = occasional, free-lance, part-time type designer
    or considerably involved in the production of fonts of any kind"
  created: '2011-03-31 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Hrant, I wasn't saying that those things are bad. And yes, you are right
    that exposure can lead to more work. But does it mean your work never existed
    if it didn't appear in a journal?\r\n\r\nIndra, I like those."
  created: '2011-03-31 17:13:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why does someone need to be recognized, awarded,\r\n> public, etc. to prove
    they are good at what they do?\r\n\r\nNot proof, evidence. And it's not (or shouldn't
    be) an ego thing* - it's just a matter of getting more exposure** so you get more
    business. For example I submitted my work to the CR Type Annual, and was lucky
    to be included; it's a nice feeling seeing it out there, but mostly I'm concerned
    with the question of how much more work it will cause me to get. BTW, there's
    a very good reason to speak at a conference besides exposure: pushing something
    you believe in, like respect for blackletter type or awareness of Latinization.
    I think Verena might be focusing too much on the fame aspect.\r\n\r\n* Although
    if that happens to get somebody up in the morning and do good work, I guess it
    can't be all that bad!\r\n\r\n** Not to mention saving money on conference registration
    fees!  :-)\r\n\r\n> \u271D = dead\r\n\r\nMight be offensive to non-Christians.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n> / = not practicing anymore\r\n\r\nCurrently instead of any more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-31 17:24:08'
- author:
    name: spiral
    picture: 110473
  body: "Having been included in the list, I have mixed feelings about the comments
    in this thread. Yep, I would probably be classified by many as excuse-dingbats-calligraphy-kitty
    designeress. I'm not sure what \"published typefaces\" means exactly. I have fonts
    that I sell commercially. Is self-publishing publishing?\r\n\r\nI'm just confused
    as to the boundaries of this \"type designer\" classification.... "
  created: '2011-03-31 19:20:43'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: node/20643 is missing at least 5 names that I can think of, and possibly more!
  created: '2011-03-31 19:24:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me \"published typefaces\" means fonts that people besides you use - not
    a trivial feat. And \"commercial typefaces\" means they've compensated you for
    the fonts, which is even harder!  :-)\r\n\r\nMichael, it's a wiki, so add away!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-31 19:57:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As someone with a technical background, I fully support respecting the work
    of type designers who design dingbats... or, even more to the point, <em>sorts</em>.
    Without them, we would have to write all our equations by hand.\r\n\r\nAnd music
    scores need to be typeset as well... and chess diagrams.\r\n\r\nAt one point,
    needing a chess diagram for my web page, and desiring something legible and immediately
    recognizable, in drawing the symbols for chess pieces, I gave \"sincere flattery\"
    to some unknown (well, unknown to me, and at least <em>unsung</em>) type designer
    at Linotype:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/opening_4920.gif]\r\n\r\nrather
    than trying to undertake the daunting task of coming up with a clear and legible
    original interpretation of the chess pieces.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I considered this matter
    important enough to confess to my sin against some hard-working type designer,
    but I'm feeling less bad now. After doing some web search, I find that Linotype
    only has a more modernized and stylized form of chess symbols available, PIXymbols
    chess regular - and the classic styles of chess fonts have instead been digitized
    and made available by a company called Alpine Electronics - the classic one that
    also inspired me as Linares."
  created: '2011-03-31 20:36:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: I have never considered something like chess in terms of type before.
  created: '2011-04-01 11:43:56'
- author:
    name: jshen
    picture: 113709
  body: 'Is "number of typefaces commercially available or credited with her name"
    meant to exclude custom typefaces that are not commercially available? If so,
    "number of typefaces commercially available AND credited with her name" would
    be better. '
  created: '2011-04-02 19:49:27'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "I\u2019d say we should include/count custom typefaces that are credited with
    her name but are not commercially available. (The phrasing was meant to not exclude
    those.) \r\n\r\nPlease do edit your entry in that case, I only knew of your (great!)
    [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Bullen|Bullen]] typeface.\r\n\r\n\r\n((Edit:
    I should have read your bio on the FB site more attentively ... so, ja, includes
    those custom faces, too.))"
  created: '2011-04-02 20:13:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Note that commercial does not mean retail - to me it includes custom work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-02 20:13:45'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "Right, retail is what I meant with \u201Ccommercially available\u201D. Commercially
    would also include custom work, that you were paid for. (Mmh, but what with those
    corporate fonts we do for NGO\u2019s for free ...)\r\n\r\nSo, do we agree on counting
    typefaces that are available retail or commercial/custom work, but no private,
    unpublished projects?\r\n\r\nI'll change the key on the wiki, but then I'd really
    love to let others take over."
  created: '2011-04-02 21:31:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can get paid with something besides currency, but if the gain is non-material
    then it's not commercial. To me it doesn't matter whether it's public, private,
    [un]published, etc. The benchmark is that somebody values your work enough to
    give you something of material value in return.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-02 21:43:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think this is a really good list, the kind of thing that can inspire. \r\n\r\n\u271D
    = <em>dead</em>, is usually \"deceased\" or \"d.\", or covered by the dates of
    entrant's life.\r\n\r\n/ = <em>not practicing anymore</em>, could be better if
    said \"not currently practicing\" as \"anymore\" implies finality not certain
    to be certain. \r\n\r\n* (or \u0192?) = <em>full-time professional typeface designer
    (self-employed or employed at a foundry)</em>, I would think to be the default
    and mark-less. \r\n\r\n\u2117 = <em>published + number of faces, e.g. \u21173
    for \u201Cthree typefaces commercially available under her name\u201D</em>, a
    nice idea, but this means a lot of up-keep. Published is published. \r\n\r\nnothing
    = <em>occasional, free-lance, part-time type designer or considerably involved
    in the production of fonts of any kind</em>. why bother? This would make a class
    of cool kids who are much known for little? I mean there must be 1,000,000's of
    women who have done <em>something</em> to some type at some point in time and
    space, since Gutenberg's daughter. \r\n"
  created: '2011-04-03 23:33:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: David, I think once we work our way through the list on the wikipage there
    will be few, if any, with nothing next to their names.
  created: '2011-04-04 00:02:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, all good, except:\r\n> why bother?\r\n\r\nDo you mean the list should
    only include full-timers? That would exclude too many nice things to look at.
    I mean the fonts.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/veraevstafieva/5585830695/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-04 00:28:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Vera Evstafieva's [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/infonta/amalta/|Amalta]]
    is definitely an interesting typeface.\r\n\r\nOne of these days, I would like
    to see a calligraphic Latin typeface of such unassuming legibility as to be fully
    suitable for use as a text type.\r\n\r\nHmm. Not really what I was looking for,
    but it seems like [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/ladoga/|Ladoga]] qualifies.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there are a few others: [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/letterperfect/stockholm/|Stockholm
    LP]], [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/bouwsma-text/|Bouwsma Text]],
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/alcuin/|URW Alcuin]] (which, by Gudrun Zapf
    von Hesse, is on topic for this thread), [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/isaco/monarcha/|Monarcha]],
    perhaps even [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/outras/scrivano/|Scrivano]]... attempts
    are being made."
  created: '2011-04-04 03:32:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Are you seriously saying there's a shortage of calligraphic Latin text faces?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-04 03:41:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">One of these days, I would like to see a calligraphic Latin typeface of
    such unassuming legibility as to be fully suitable for use as a text type.\r\n\r\nBrioso"
  created: '2011-04-04 04:39:46'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Agreed William. \r\n\r\nAnd,\r\nYou all know Hrant hates calligraphic Latin
    typefaces :-) So don't encourage him! At least he said calligraphic instead of
    chirographic.\r\n\r\n@quadribloc... look for the origins of Ladoga! Simply wishing
    to lay the design ethos where it lies as opposed to some usurper. "
  created: '2011-04-04 07:32:17'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "David, I changed most of this on the wiki page already (I cannot change my
    old proposal here though). \r\nBut I think it\u2019s a good thing to not only
    include full-timers. \r\nRegarding number of published typefaces \u2013 should
    be okay to maintain if everybody puts in their own and what they know of. Can
    be seen as an indicator of activity among the free-lance designer."
  created: '2011-04-04 13:13:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael: Not *hate*. But not just Latin either.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-04 14:05:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Are you seriously saying there's a shortage of calligraphic
    Latin text faces?</cite>\r\n\r\nPerhaps there is a surfeit, as it appears that
    however many of them may exist, calligraphic faces for the Latin script seem to
    resolutely remain used as display faces only.\r\n\r\nHowever, it just occurred
    to me that I was overlooking one exception that someone may actually have used
    for body copy. If they did, though, I would tend to agree with those who would
    view it as wildly inappropriate for the context.\r\n\r\nAMS Euler.\r\n\r\nIt may
    be a beautiful typeface - designed by Herman Zapf himself, so who can doubt -
    and I can even sympathize with the desires of those involved to find a new, original
    paradigm for the typesetting of mathematics - but I'm afraid it is, to me, at
    any rate, jarringly not what I am used to.\r\n\r\n@typerror:\r\n<cite>look for
    the origins of Ladoga! Simply wishing to lay the design ethos where it lies as
    opposed to some usurper.</cite>\r\n\r\nI had seen the beginning of the description,
    where it said the face was designed in the Soviet Union in 1968 by Anatoly Shchukin.
    I hadn't opened up the description to see that Ladoga itself, however, was based
    on it by someone else in 2010.\r\n\r\nIs it Viktor Kharik that you see as the
    usurper, though, or Anatoly Shchukin - does this face have a still earlier origin?"
  created: '2011-04-05 02:39:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I see that Anna Simons is included on the list of women type designers. I'm
    a fan of her work, especially the initials and titling lettering she created for
    the Bremer Presse, of which I own a lovely folio set, but I'm not aware that she
    created any typeface designs. She was a calligrapher and lettering artist, and
    although she created some letters for use in print editions, she didn't design
    any full typefaces, to my knowledge. I'm not saying that she should not be included
    on the list, but I am wondering how the criteria apply in a case such as hers?
    [Her inclusion also makes me wonder about the influential role of women in type
    design education, and how this might be recorded or acknowledged in the list;
    among Simons' students was Jakob Erbar.]
  created: '2011-04-05 06:20:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Another name for the list: Sylvie Chokroun, designer of Nathan, one of my
    favourite recent Sephardi Hebrew types (featured in <em>Language Culture Type</em>).'
  created: '2011-04-05 06:49:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here are some Soviet women type designers or lettering artists included in
    the 'big grey book of Soviet typography' (<em>The lettering art: work by Moscow
    book designers, 1959\u20131974</em>) and not yet included in the wiki list. The
    situation of 'type designers' in the Soviet Union was complicated by the difficulty
    of manufacture. Relatively few type designers ever had their designs produced
    as type, so most worked at drawing 'type' for reproduction in book titling etc.
    A notable female exception was Galina Andreyevna Bannikova (1901\u20131972), designer
    of the Bannikova and Baikonur families. I have little doubt that these designers,
    if working today, would have been happily producing their own fonts -- in the
    great Russian font software, of course --, so I'm content to think of them as
    type designers. The book was published in 1977, so it seems certain that at least
    one of these women has since died.\r\n\r\nSophia Evgenyeva GANNUSHKINA\r\nBorn
    1947, Moscow.\r\n\r\nIrina Alexandrovna GUSEVA\r\nBorn 1936, Moscow.\r\n\r\nElizaveta
    Yakovlevna KRIVINSKAYA\r\nBorn 1907, Kharkov.\r\n\r\nElena Alexandrovna TROFIMOVA\r\nBorn
    1943, Moscow."
  created: '2011-04-05 06:52:02'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "John, thanks for your thorough research, you can add those names yourself
    if you want.\r\nRegarding Anna Simon \u2013 we had this discussion on twitter
    the other day and Dan Reynolds pointed us to the dissertation of Sandra Winter
    at Reading. She researched over Anna Simon and writes about her typefaces. Alas,
    the link to the pdf seems to not be cached anymore, perhaps Dan can help? Here
    are the tweets:\r\n\r\n[[http://twitter.com/hardwig/status/53410219874729985|Florian
    Hardwig:]] http://is.gd/AhBp6p mentions she cut initials.\r\n[[http://twitter.com/typeoff/status/53412636397805568|Dan:]]
    See S. Winter's Reading Dissertation about A. Simons for the list of types she
    was almost definitely behind! http://bit.ly/hLy0AP\r\n[[http://twitter.com/hardwig/status/53414850558304256|Florian:]]
    Perfect, thanks. \u2018Anna Simons and type design\u2019 starts on p55."
  created: '2011-04-05 21:21:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Wonder if [[http://www.pia-frauss.de/|Pia Frauss]] and Petra Heidorn (Cybapee)
    qualify for the list. Don't know enough to tell...
  created: '2011-04-05 22:10:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Indra. I'll try to track down Sandra Winter's dissertation.\r\n\r\nI'm
    hoping that someone else can add the other names I suggested to the list. I've
    had a frustrating time trying to edit wiki entries in the past, and figure it
    will get done more efficiently and with less swearing if someone more experienced
    does it."
  created: '2011-04-06 02:39:14'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "John... are you aware of Hildegard Korger from \"East Germany?\" Do not know
    if any of her \"complete Alphabet\" experiments made it into the typographic annals
    but they were certainly complete character sets.\r\n\r\nEdit: yes Typoskript."
  created: '2011-04-08 00:44:09'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hooray for gender-specific pronouns!\r\n\r\nCurrently, Identifont has about
    <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A//www.identifont.com%20%22and%20her%20typefaces%22\">130
    entries for female type designers</a> (vs. <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A//www.identifont.com%20%22and%20his%20typefaces%22\">434
    male</a>).\r\nMyFonts lists <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A//myfonts.com%20%22What%20she%20does%3A%20Type%20Design%22\">134
    women who do type design</a> (and <a href=\"http://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttp%3A//myfonts.com%20%22What%20he%20does%3A%20Type%20Design%22\">542
    men</a>)."
  created: '2011-04-17 23:37:00'
date: '2011-03-30 21:39:16'
node_type: forum
title: A list of female type designers

---
