---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "In my Thessaloniki presentation I used as the springboard to my discussion
  of perceptual processing in reading the statement \u201Cthe natural form of reading
  is not by spelling or syllabification, but by grasping word wholes, that is, word
  forms or configurations constitute the units of perception in reading.\u201D I picked
  this statement off the internet, but couldn\u2019t find the source.\r\n\r\nNow I
  know the source: in \u201CRecent studies of eye movements in reading.\u201D [<em>Psychological
  Bulletin</em>, Vol 55(4), Jul 1958, 215-231] Miles Tinker reviews the following:
  Munoz, J.M., Odoriz, J.B. and Tavazza, J. \u201CRegistro de los movimientos  oculares
  durante la lectura\u201D, <em>Revista de la Sociedad Argentina de  Biologia</em>,
  XX, Abril de 1944 pp. 280-286, and says: \u201CIt was concluded that the natural
  form of reading is not by spelling or syllabizing but on the basis of whole groups
  of words. That is, word forms or configurations constituted the units of perception
  in  reading.\"\r\n\r\nLater William Scott Gray and Ralph C. Staiger refered to the
  same article in their book <em>The teaching of reading and writing: an international
  survey</em>. They say: \u201CThe investigators concluded that \u2018the natural
  form of reading is not  by spelling or syllabizing, but on the basis of whole groups
  of  words\u2019.  This fact, they pointed out, provides \u2018the physiological
  \ basis of the modern methodology of reading.\u2019\u201D\r\n\r\nGray and Staiger
  must be quoting an English summary, but the original text might give\r\nme a clue
  to the differences from the version I picked up on the internet, so I'm trying to
  locate the article. In the version I picked up in all those years ago \u201Cgrasping
  word wholes\u201D is substituted for \u201Con the basis of whole groups of words,\u201D
  and \u201Csyllabizing\u201D was change to \u201Csyllabification.\u201D Does anyone
  on Typophile have access to the Munoz, et. al., paper, or the journal it is in?\r\n\r\nIn
  the process I discovered that Tinker also talks about \"total word forms\" suggesting
  that in the lower case it\u2019s a factor in perceptual processing and has an impact
  on the greater reading speed of the lower case as compared to all capitals. \r\n\r\nHerbert
  Spencer in his <em>The Visible Word</em> discusses this, stating that Tinker has
  stressed the distinction between \u2018total word shape,\u2019 the bare outline
  of a word, and \u2018total word structure\u2019 which included internal form elements.
  I can determine this from google books and other sources, but I can\u2019t access
  the identity of the Tinker text he references. Apparently it's #396 in the Spencer
  bibliography. If any typophiler has the book, can you tell me what that text Tinker
  text Spencer is referencing is. Tinker apparently favoured the notion that the unit
  of perception in reading is the whole word.\r\n\r\nPeter"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The scientific study of readability is obscure enough, without delving into
    its historiography.\r\nIn what other subjects is 50-year old research relevant
    today?\r\n\r\nOr is it because the subject is so obscure and thin on the ground
    that such classics as Tinker are referenced?\r\nOr is it because a history of
    the subject will help to debunk the old myths?\r\n(The prevailing wisdom on readability
    amongst working typographers and graphic designers still acknowledges the predominance
    of word-shape recognition, which present-day researchers have determined is incorrect.) "
  created: '2011-04-06 19:21:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, maybe it's because evolution is really really slow...\r\n\r\n> Does
    anyone on Typophile have access to the\r\n> Munoz, et. al., paper, or the journal
    it is in?\r\n\r\nLet me check UCLA.\r\n\r\n> Apparently it's #396 in the Spencer
    bibliography.\r\n\r\nI had borrowed the book from UCLA, and made it a\r\npoint
    to copy that fabulous bibliography! I'll look it up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-06 19:51:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 evolution is really really slow ... </em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/devo_front_4844.jpg]"
  created: '2011-04-06 20:28:05'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, this relates to what was once a major political controversy
    in the United States. This dates back to the book \"Why Johnny Can't Read\".\r\n\r\nEssentially,
    while it is true that competent adult readers read by reading whole words, the
    older traditional way to teach reading, by phonics, while boring to the smarter
    kids who already <em>know</em> how to read, having been taught by their parents
    at home before starting school, at least works for every child - while sight-reading
    often fails to reach some children."
  created: '2011-04-06 22:53:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 while it is true that competent adult readers read by reading
    whole words \u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nThe myth. \r\nHaven't you been following what
    Kevin Larson has had to say about this at Typophile?"
  created: '2011-04-06 23:48:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, please stop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 00:45:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Peter: I have the following article if it is of any help.\r\n\r\nTinker,
    M. (1932). The influence of form of type on the perception of words. <em>Journal
    of Applied Psychology, 16(2)</em>, 167\u2013174.\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong>\r\nThe
    perceptibility of words and groups of unrelated letters when printed in lower-case
    and in all capitals was obtained by means of the distance method. Both capital
    letters and words in capitals were read at greater distances from the subject
    than letters or words in lower-case. There was only a small and statistically
    insignificant difference between distances at which unrelated capital letters
    and words in capitals were read correctly. With lower-case type, however, the
    difference between distances for apprehending words and unrelated letters is greater
    and the direction of difference is very stable statistically. These findings indicate
    that total word-form is more potent in the perception of words in lower-case than
    in all capitals, where perception seems to occur largely by letters. This conclusion
    is supported by the fact that the reading of words in lower-case yielded more
    misreadings than the words in capitals, and is suggested as an explanation of
    the faster reading of text in lower-case type."
  created: '2011-04-07 02:15:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, I don't think Nick should stop pointing out that the repeated claim
    that we \u2018read by reading whole words\u2019 has been fatally holed below the
    waterline by several decades of studies that set out to test that hypothesis.
    As you know, I'm willing to entertain the possibilities put forward by Peter and
    others that some recognition of feature patterns above or across individual letters
    may play a role in reading, but that's something quite different from the claim
    that we read whole words, i.e. that words are the unit of recognition rather than
    the outcome of recognition."
  created: '2011-04-07 02:17:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks Christopher. I have that paper too. But I don't think it's the one
    Spencer was summarizing. Hrant, I'll be much obliged if you could check.\r\n\r\nNick,
    I'm trying to get the history straight because I want to know how we got to where
    we are. If historical researchers around Tinker's time had a holistic view in
    which the information that is used involved a good deal more than the outline
    form and encompassed internal details, a debunking of holism by attacking just
    the notion that the form as outline is what is used or decisive is beside the
    point. \r\n\r\nIt is possible to hold that word wholes are normally the unit of
    perception in continuous reading while maintaining that word shape or the total
    word form \u2014 in the sense of the envelope structure of the word \u2014 hardly
    plays a part. Even Denis Pelli finds word shape in almost this restricted sense
    plays a role.\r\n\r\nThe debate between Kevin et. al., and myself is: is independent
    letter recognition the central mediating process for recognition of word wholes,
    or are role units \u2014 units at the granularity of letter parts, the way they
    are connected snd organized across an uncrowded span \u2014 the critical mediating
    agents in the rapid automatic visual word-form resolution which subtends sense-following.
    The items that letter nodes project to in the interactive activation scheme are
    word wholes. So even in this scheme there is a grasping of word wholes.\r\n\r\nI'll
    even grant the Hrantian caveat."
  created: '2011-04-07 03:32:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll be nice and not say what I want Nick to stop doing. It's never worked
    before anyway. However it's still useful to plant a seed of doubt among the uninitiated.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    the idea that we read whole words at a time is as blantantly illogical as the
    idea that we only read letters (sequentially or not). We read as much as we can
    at a time; that type of efficiency is at the heart of the heuristic, non-algorithmic
    system that we are. The dynamic, individual unit of reading is the bouma, and
    it can be anything from a single letter (especially in the fovea where the resolution
    affords such certainty) to an entire word (hey, maybe even multiple words). DEPENDING.
    On a dozen things at least, including the meat of our domain, fonts.\r\n\r\nPeter's
    position BTW is so far ahead of the basic realization above that it's actually
    a disservice to state it. You teach high-schoolers Newton's Laws, not Einstein's
    theories. When you see an elephant charging towards your village you don't try
    to teach it English first so you can then explain why it shouldn't be trampling
    your home; you either divert it, or you shoot it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 03:32:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>We read as much as we can at a time; that type of efficiency is
    at the heart of the heuristic, non-algorithmic system that we are.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    reading \u2018as much as we can at a time\u2019 is not efficient, reading only
    as much as we <em>need</em> to at a time is efficient, and that fact that we make
    reverse saccades to correct word recognition indicates that our default efficiency
    favours occasional errors over exhaustive information intake."
  created: '2011-04-07 05:31:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> reading only as much as we need to at a time is efficient\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    But that just means we don't need all the letters.\r\n\r\nAnd reverse saccades
    (AKA regressions) are indeed a clue\r\nthat something beyond letterwise decipherment
    is happening.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 06:00:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Yes: a clue that some of the time that we think we don''t need all the letters
    we are wrong. :)'
  created: '2011-04-07 08:33:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Since it has been determined elsewhere here that the letters most readers
    see on screen are fuc... er "quality challenged", you all might better hope people
    read words, eh!?
  created: '2011-04-07 12:46:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, regressions exist because when they don't happen we're going faster
    because we're skipping letters (or rather, assimilating them into boumas) - it's
    just that sometimes we're wrong. To me regressions are evidence that we try to
    be right at the limit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 14:44:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Rayner, K. (1998). Eye movements in reading and information processing: 20
    Years of Research. <em>Psychological Bulletin, 124(3)</em>, 372\u2013422. (pp
    375).\r\n\r\nAlthough most saccades in reading English are made from left to right,
    readers do not relentlessly go forward: About 10-15% of the saccades are regressions
    (right-to-left movements along the line or movements back to previously read lines).
    Many regressions tend to be only a few letters long and could be due to the reader
    making too long of a saccade, in which case a short saccade to the left may be
    necessary for reading to proceed efficiently. Short within-word regressive saccades
    may also be due to problems that the reader has processing the currently fixated
    word. Longer regressions (more than 10 letter spaces back along the line or to
    another line) occur because the reader did not understand the text. In such cases,
    good reader are very accurate in sending their eyes to that part of text that
    caused them difficulty (Frazier & Rayner, 1982; Kennedy, 1983; Kennedy & Murray,
    1987a, 1987b; Murray & Kennedy, 1988), whereas poor readers engage in more backtracking
    through the text (Murray & Kennedy, 1988).\r\n\r\nI forgot that I read this some
    time ago. It goes on for considerably longer and covers a lot of interesting material.
    Definitely worth a read if you haven\u2019t already. One of the better papers
    I have  come across."
  created: '2011-04-07 15:35:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Sorry, my intent wasn\u2019t to generate debate, just to get accurate information
    about where the passage I quoted in my Typo text from 2003 originated, and what
    it's actual form was in the source document. Also I wanted to track down what
    is the actual Miles Tinker text that Herbert Spencer was referring to when he
    summarized Tinker\u2019s take on how perceptual processing in reading works. "
  created: '2011-04-07 16:01:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "20 years?\r\nSaccades were discovered in the 1880s.\r\nIn the popular consciousness,
    Life magazine did a famous article (infographic) in the '40s/'50s, comparing male
    and female saccadic movement over the same picture.  \r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nPeter,
    I'm very interested in your historical perspective.\r\nSpeaking of perspective,
    it's a lot like reading, a way of using technology to order visual coding into
    what is assumed to be natural perception.\r\nErwin Panofsky established linear
    perspective as a subject of cultural study, Ernst Gombrich popularized it. Hugo
    Damisch went postmodern.\r\n\r\nDrawing a parallel (so to speak) between reading
    and linear perspective, in recent years we've seen a rise in the use of 3-point
    perspective, replacing 2-point, in media (especially virtual environments), at
    the same time as a rise in the use of sans serif.\r\nThese are cultural changes
    which condition so-called \"natural\" physiological processes.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 16:18:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201CThe first era of eye movement research extended from Javal\u2019s initial
    observations concerning the role of eye movements in reading in 1879.\u201D (Rayner,
    1998, pp 1)\r\n\r\nThis is the 4th sentence of the paper. Twenty years refers
    to the fact that Rayner is simply reviewing the last 20 years of research, not
    stating that there has only been 20 years of work done. Strangely, Javal does
    not appear in the references section. I haven\u2019t read much Javal, certainly
    none in French, but I suspect Rayner is referencing:\r\n\r\nJaval, K. E. (1879).
    Essai sur la physiologie de la lecture. <em>Annales d\u2019Oculistique, 82</em>,
    243-253.\r\n\r\nNot sure why he is referenced as K. E. I have always known him
    as <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_%C3%89mile_Javal\">Louis \xC9mile
    Javal</a>. I have noticed the same typo in different papers from different authours
    I suspect a typo due to the fact that K and L and next to each other on the keyboard
    and people often copy/paste references when writing papers.\r\n\r\n The same spelling
    exists in other papers. Probably a Can anyone shed light on this?"
  created: '2011-04-07 17:06:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, no need to apologize for triggering debate! :-)  I'll be digging up\r\nthose
    references - it's just that our garage has become quite inhospitable...\r\n\r\n>
    Short within-word regressive saccades may also be due to problems\r\n> that the
    reader has processing the currently fixated word.\r\n\r\nI posit that this happens
    only when:\r\n- The word is extremely rare and similar in shape to a more common
    word.\r\nOR\r\n- The font is flawed.\r\n\r\n> Saccades were discovered in the
    1880s.\r\n\r\nFormally, yes. But one has to suspect that observations of saccades
    might even be as old as the Ancient Greeks, who were superb observers.\r\n\r\n>
    comparing male and female saccadic movement over the same picture.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    of course there must be a difference between \"2D\" saccades performed deliberatively
    versus lateral saccades performed unconsciously.\r\n\r\n> These are cultural changes
    which condition\r\n> so-called \"natural\" physiological processes.\r\n\r\n- There's
    no need for the \"so-called\" or the quotes. Those processes are real - more real
    than many of the other factors we like to dream up to justify our artistic tendencies.\r\n-
    There is a limit to such conditioning.\r\n- The other way around is more significant.\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    I'm sure you're also aware of Javal's landmark \"Physiologie de la lecture et
    de l'\xE9criture\" of 1905.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 17:16:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Although of course there must be a difference between \"2D\" saccades
    performed deliberatively versus lateral saccades performed unconsciously.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    way that men's saccades generally scoped the physical features of women represented
    in those mid-century \"Life\" pictures is assumed to be as unconscious (involuntary)
    as reading saccades.\r\n\r\nIsn't it also possible to re-learn how to read?\r\nTypically,
    the goal is speed.\r\nThis could be compared to re-programming a global skill,
    such as a golf swing or tennis serve.\r\n\r\n<em>There's no need for the \"so-called\"
    or the quotes. Those processes are real \u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNo one's saying they're
    not real.\r\nBut they are cultural, not natural.\r\nAre cultures without written
    language unnatural?\r\n\r\nIn the same way, one speaks of \"natural\" media, as
    if pen and paper is not a technology, but mouse and computer is.\r\n\r\nThere
    is no natural way to read.\r\nSome read right to left, others left to right.\r\nSome
    use phonetic alphabets, others a logographic system.\r\n\r\n<em>- There is a limit
    to such conditioning.\r\n- The other way around is more significant.</em>\r\n\r\nSignificant
    to you perhaps, but it is barely recognized by reading research (with, for instance,
    its un-typographically-informed axioms about which fonts are easy to read), and
    it is what I find most interesting.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 17:58:02'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Hugo Damisch went postmodern</blockquote>\r\n <em>Hubert</em>,
    rather."
  created: '2011-04-07 18:16:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Isn't it also possible to re-learn how to read?\r\n\r\nTo some extent,
    sure. But the efficiencies of how we actually read kick in on their own; we're
    never taught to saccade - certainly not backwards! We're taught to read one word
    at a time, compiling the letters sequentially; some people, and only after a certain
    age, are taught to read words at a time, but this is not done explicitly. True
    immersive reading happens pretty much in spite of how we're taught!\r\n\r\n> But
    they are cultural, not natural.\r\n\r\nThe composition of the human retina isn't
    cultural.\r\nAnd you cannot over-ride its composition via any conditioning.\r\n\r\n>
    There is no natural way to read.\r\n\r\nNot absolutely, but some ways are certainly
    more efficient than others. For example the fact that the retina's acuity is more
    horizontal than vertical (probably because during evolution dangers came from
    the side much more than from above or below) means reading vertical text is slower.
    As physical creatures we are simply more horizontally capable than vertically.\r\n\r\n>
    Significant to you perhaps\r\n\r\nSignificant to anybody paying attention and
    caring about users, as opposed to fabricating and promulgating excuses to justify
    self-expression.\r\n\r\n> it is what I find most interesting\r\n\r\nTo me the
    shortcomings of scientific testing of reading aren't interesting, they're just
    sad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 18:34:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026 fabricating and promulgating excuses to justify self-expression.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    could certainly be argued that the relativism in cultural studies legitimizes
    self-expression, but is that bad?\r\nA distinction must be made between self-expression
    and self indulgence, but even this has its benefits, \"the road of excess\u2026\"
    as Blake quipped.\r\n\r\nHowever, quite apart from their implications, cultural
    studies are also a means and an end in their own right, as a form of knowledge
    and understanding, and that is what I find significant, especially as it plays
    so small a part in cognitive research, and that, in my opinion, is a sad shortcoming.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 19:11:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As I'm fond of saying: nothing made by a human can avoid self-expression,
    and nothing made for a human should avoid self-expression. But that doesn't justify
    averting one's gaze from our physical realities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 19:51:19'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> <em>In what other subjects is 50-year old research relevant today?</em>\r\n\r\nOne
    of the great features of scientific experiments is that you expect that a study
    rerun today would have the same results as 50 or 100 years ago. I expect this
    to be true in chemistry and I expect this to be true in reading psychology. The
    interpretations of the experiment findings certainly change, but the data should
    not. I think all fields, certainly reading psychology cite 50 year old research.
    The <em>classic</em> papers tend to be older. I have had the great fortune of
    attending a few typography conferences. I\u2019m quite sure I saw the occasional
    older piece of work referenced.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 19:56:17'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "> <em>For example the fact that the retina's acuity is more horizontal than
    vertical (probably because during evolution dangers came from the side much more
    than from above or below) means reading vertical text is slower.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    as you know I disagree with many of your assumptions, such as immersive reading
    being a qualitatively different reading process, but I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve
    seen this assumption before. Where did you learn that the retina\u2019s acuity
    is more horizontal than vertical or that reading vertical (presumably Chinese
    or Japanese) text is slower?\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 19:59:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually the data should change (and that's a great feature of being human
    :-) because some aspects of our behavior do change. For example the changes in
    how young people spend their time certainly affects their reading performance
    (even though it doesn't change the great relevance of their physical constancy
    with older generations).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 20:01:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Where did you learn that the retina\u2019s acuity is more horizontal than
    vertical\r\n\r\nI don't remember. But is it not true that we see more detail laterally
    than vertically, deeper into the field of vision? However if I'm wrong on that
    it still doesn't mean we're ethereal, purely cultural beings. I think we can all
    agree for example that the human neck allows us to look left/right more than up/down
    (even though that's not very relevant to reading per se).\r\n\r\n> or that reading
    vertical (presumably Chinese or Japanese) text is slower?\r\n\r\nThere are many
    more things than orientation going on when comparing Latin and Chinese typesetting,
    so arriving at usable conclusions there is even harder than within Latin! What
    would be useful is to compare horizontal and vertical Chinese reading. But, as
    always, first one needs to enable immersion in the test subjects - which I maintain
    nobody has done yet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 20:10:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, Chinese typesetting has been moving towards more horizontal setting.
    Some of that is probably cultural influence from the West. But I suspect some
    of it comes from an implicit realization that horizontal is read more easily.
    You don't have to know why something works to implement it. For example how any
    typographer worth his salt will not set a book in a sans, even if he can't prove
    it works better. You cannot explain that away by claiming they're simply following
    convention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 20:15:16'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "Wandell\u2019s excellent textbook <em>Foundations of Vision</em> says \u201CAnatomical
    images of the cone mosaic (see Figure 3.4) show that in the central fovea the
    cones form a tightly packed triangular lattice, so that we do not expect any large
    effects at different orientations of the stimulus\u201D (p.62)\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t
    know if there are advantages for either vertical or horizontal layout in Chinese
    and Japanese typography. I know I wouldn\u2019t assume one way or the other because
    one form is currently the convention. I also wouldn\u2019t make the same assumption
    for serif Latin text.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-07 22:20:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Backwards saccades do not necessarily indicate skipped information.\r\n\r\nThe
    eye naturally has to move back and forth just in order to see - if you stare constantly
    at one point, you will find the scene you are looking at fading away unless you
    move your gaze. The nerves behind the retina lead to the eye registering changes
    and differences in brightness and color more effectively than static levels -
    even though the pigments directly react to the level of incoming light, saturation
    issues in the rods and cones themselves are also part of what make saccades useful,
    IIRC.\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\n<cite>BTW, Chinese typesetting has been moving towards
    more horizontal setting. Some of that is probably cultural influence from the
    West. But I suspect some of it comes from an implicit realization that horizontal
    is read more easily.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe fact that the human visual field is wider
    than it is high largely stems from the fact that we have two eyes. Since Chinese
    doesn't have hyphenation issues, the fact that the ideal line length is shorter
    for vertical writing than horizontal is likely not a problem.\r\n\r\nI would tend
    to think that Western cultural influence is the overwhelming cause of the change
    as far as mainland China is concerned. Remember how the Cultural Revolution sought
    to purge China of all traces of its traditional Confucian culture. So there was
    really no time for individual typographers to gradually come to decisions about
    what works better.\r\n\r\nNow, in the case of Japan - and to a lesser extent,
    Taiwan - the process could have worked as you say.\r\n\r\nMy suspicion - merely
    a guess - is that in Taiwan, although it happened later, the switchover was nearly
    an all-at-once thing when certain governmental or prestigious publishers decided
    it was time to stop being different for the sake of being different - even if,
    to this day, the vertical format is used by those who want a traditional look.\r\n\r\nIn
    Japan, though, manga to this day are published with vertical text in their word
    balloons, and thus a right-to-left ordering of the panels. Horizontal text is
    just easier to do with existing computer systems, and so what seems to be the
    case is merely that the Japanese still prefer vertical text, but just don't think
    achieving it is worth the extra trouble to handle it on computers that need to
    be useful for handling Western languages as well.\r\n\r\nSo I think that any intrinsic
    superiority of horizontal text over vertical never really had a chance to have
    more than a negligible influence on the process - politics in mainland China,
    and laser printers and computer software in Japan (and probably also Korea) almost
    completely account for the change."
  created: '2011-04-07 22:23:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Actually the data should change (and that's a great feature of being
    human :-) because some aspects of our behavior do change.</em>\r\n\r\nWeren't
    you just arguing that culture has little relevance to our physical realities?"
  created: '2011-04-08 06:23:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "N.S.> Weren't you just arguing that culture has little relevance to our physical
    realities?\r\n\r\nDon't'cha know? People supposedly read from different distances
    depending on what OS they use, despite matching device resolutions. Sounds to
    me like computer culture supposedly having spacial relevance in our physical realities...;)"
  created: '2011-04-08 22:20:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The Tinker source I\u2019m looking for is most likely:\r\nTinker, Miles A.,
    \u201CHow Children and Adults Perceive Words in Reading,\u201D Invitational Addresses,
    1965, Tenth Annual Convention, International Reading Association, pp. 75-93. Reprinted
    as Chapter 11 in: <em>Readings in reading: practice, theory, research</em>. Theodore
    L. Torgerson. 1968, pp. 75-88; \r\n"
  created: '2011-04-11 19:58:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The \u201Cnatural form of reading\" statement goes back to this:\r\n\r\n\u201CComparan
    los trazados obtenidos durante la lectura por diferentes sujetos, que revelan
    claramente que la forma de leer corriente, no es deletreando ni silabeando, sino
    captando grupos de palabras, lo que constituye la base fisiol\xF3gica de la nueva
    metodologia de la lectura.\u201D\r\n\r\nFrom: Munoz, J.M., Odoriz, J.B. and Lavazza,
    J. \u201CRegistro de los movimientos oculares durante la lectura\u201D, Revista
    de la Sociedad Argentina de Biologia, XX, Abril de 1944 page 284."
  created: '2011-04-12 05:45:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I found my 1963 Tinker book.\r\nCould you remind me what you needed?\r\nAnd
    something from Spencer too?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-30 15:39:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks Hrant.\r\n\r\nI was looking for #396 in the Spencer bibliography.\r\n\r\nApparently
    it's the 1965 <em>Basis for Effective Reading</em>. I suspect it contains a version
    of \u201CHow Children and Adults Perceive Words in Reading,\u201D which I believe
    is the source of Spencer\u2019s information about Tinker\u2019s use of the distinction
    between \u2018total word shape,\u2019 the bare outline of a word, and \u2018total
    word structure\u2019 which included internal form elements. \r\n\r\nNow I'm looking
    for critiques of the use Paterson and Tinker made of the Chapman-Cook Speed of
    Reading Test in their typographical factor's studies. Because it involved crossing
    out 'rogue' words it seems like an odd choice for gauging the impact of typographical
    factors on reading speed in continuous reading situations, which was their aim."
  created: '2011-06-30 17:07:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So you need \"Basis for Effective Reading\"?\r\nUCLA doesn't have that, and
    that's my go-to.\r\n\r\n> it involved crossing out 'rogue' words\r\n\r\nSounds
    like the test itself needs to be crossed out...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-30 17:17:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, thanks for checking, but I don't really need further confirmation
    of the \u201CHow Children and Adults Perceive Words in Reading,\u201D inclusion
    in that book. Just knowing that the distinction is clearly stated in the paper
    is enough for me to get a sense of Tinker\u2019s  ideas \u2014 somewhat coarse,
    by today\u2019s standards \u2014 on what's used by the eye in reading.\r\n\r\nI
    am still curious about the Munoz, J.M., Odoriz, J.B. and Lavazza, J. \u201CRegistro
    de los movimientos oculares durante la lectura\u201D, Revista de la Sociedad Argentina
    de Biologia, XX, Abril de 1944 page 284."
  created: '2011-06-30 17:27:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "UCLA does have that journal, but only volumes 41-49.\r\n\r\nFrom before:\r\n>
    \"It was concluded that the natural form of reading is not by spelling\r\n> or
    syllabizing but on the basis of whole groups of words. That is, word\r\n> forms
    or configurations constituted the units of perception in reading.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    does sound tantalizing - if to me totally unsurprising.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-30 17:37:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "> word-forms or <strong>configurations</strong> constituted the units of
    perception in reading <\r\n> tantalizing <\r\n\r\nAs I mentioned above I used
    that as my springboard in Thessaloniki.\r\n\r\nDid you know that since 2006 there\u2019s
    a Configural Processing Consortium?\r\nhttp://www.indiana.edu/~psymodel/CPC2010/index.html\r\nThey'll
    be in Toronto in 2013!\r\n\r\nBoumas are IMHO ordered configurations of role-units.\r\n\r\nA
    recent (2010) paper by two of the consortium\u2019s key scientists is:\r\n\u201CInformation-Processing
    Alternatives to Holistic Perception: Identifying the\r\nMechanisms of Secondary-Level
    Holism Within a Categorization Paradigm\u201D by\r\nMario Fific, James T. Townsend,
    available at:\r\nhttp://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2933083/?tool=pubmed\r\nThe
    domain is faces, but similar issues apply to words.\r\n\r\nThe stuff is pretty
    advanced, but highly suggestive.\r\n\r\nPeter"
  created: '2011-06-30 19:15:56'
date: '2011-04-06 17:03:11'
node_type: forum
title: the natural form of reading

---
