---
author:
  name: Sindre
  picture: 116197
body: "This started as an attempt to draw type with curves only, and soon became an
  exercise in tension. I drew this several months ago, and had almost forgotten about
  it, until [[http://typophile.com/node/80991|this post]] brought it back to mind.
  I don't really know if this experiment has identity enough to be considered a typeface
  in its own right. There's a companion italic in the works too, but I want to wait
  with that.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/untitled_5959.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "You sir, are quite a talent.\r\n\r\nThe stroke contrast is a bit inconsistent
    - especially in the 'a' and 'e', but it looks like a solid, sturdy text face.
    \ How does it print? "
  created: '2011-04-12 22:47:31'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you for your compliment, sir. \r\n\r\nThat contrast weirdness with
    the 'a' (and several other glyphs) is deliberate. Perhaps it's overdone ... I'll
    look into that. \r\n\r\nThis is indeed supposed to be a text font, 8 points its
    intended size. The typeface, if developed, will have additional optical sizes
    of 10, 12, 18 and 60 points. \r\n\r\nI haven't printed it yet, and I'm ashamed
    to admit that I don't have access to a decent printer. "
  created: '2011-04-12 23:00:48'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Glad you're doing this, and glad you're sharing it here. I love looking carefully
    at your designs - I think they're all top notch and this is no exception.\r\n\r\nSome
    observations to take or leave:\r\n\r\nI would consider dropping the /A/ crossbar
    a little.\r\nI think the leg of /K/ and /R/ and the tail of /Q/ might be too dark.
    Maybe in addition /K/'s leg could use more of the straight vs curve tension that
    the other two have.\r\n\r\n/W/'s middle vertex comes too high to my eye.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to see more variations for /e/. It's not the contrast weirdness that bugs
    me, but it just looks too soft. Is it worth trying a spur (or maybe just the hint
    of projection like the beard of /G/, which I love)? \r\n\r\nI'm not sold on /y/'s
    tail terminal. Would a flag terminal like /f/ has work there?\r\n\r\nDiacritics
    look big--particularly tall, especially circumflex and caron.\r\n\r\nI like the
    monoline zero, but think it could be a hint darker.\r\n\r\nThat four is seriously
    weird. Not necessarily a bad thing!\r\n\r\nTittles' rightward placement may be
    overdone a touch.\r\n\r\nFavorite bits: /E/ is great; /b/c/m/ are all terrific;
    I like the \"upside down\" /s/; /2/ is very tightly wound but wonderfully drawn.\r\n\r\nLooking
    forward to text sizes and settings. I'm eager to see whether that cusp on the
    right side of /U/ can work without being an eye-catcher."
  created: '2011-04-12 23:31:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you very much, Craig. It's great to be back. As usual, I think you've
    found the most important flaws in my design. That tall crossbar in 'A' is just
    a weird hangup I have (caused by the 'A' crossbar of Zapf's [[http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/PALATINO01.GIF|original
    Palatino]].  Will be lowered. I'll make some 'e' variations. I really like its
    wide open mouth, but I agree the eye lacks character. That 'y' tail is a remnant
    from an earlier incarnation, where 'f', 'r' and even 'y' had similar terminals.
    The 'y' must go too, I agree. Are the 'r' and 'f' terminals slightly too light,
    by the way? \r\n\r\nIt's well past midnight here, so redrawing will have to wait
    till tomorrow. Thanks again for invaluable feedback.\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2011-04-13 00:11:22'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Wow, Sindre, your talent has really blossomed. My goodness, this is beautiful!
    Good work my friend. Let me do justice to this by coming back after a full inspection!
    ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-13 01:46:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Are the 'r' and 'f' terminals slightly too light, by the way?</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\n/f/ I don't think so, /r/ maybe: text settings will tell."
  created: '2011-04-13 02:03:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This reminds me of two things: my own Paphos*, which I started over a decade
    ago but soon stopped since I realized I wasn't ready to do it right (I'm still
    not ready); and Bremer Antiqua**, which is of course a much higher compliment.
    I like this a lot, and it doesn't have to try any harder to be a \"typeface in
    its own right\".\r\n\r\n* You can see the \"j\" at the far right here: http://themicrofoundry.com/s_latin.html\r\n\r\n**
    http://www.typophile.com/node/66461\r\n\r\nThat said, you do have a decision to
    make: how conventional or not you want this to be. You could end up with a solid,
    charming, somewhat old-fashioned design; or you could end up with something that
    will make people (including you) <em>think</em> a little bit (even though it might
    still <em>seem</em> old-fashioned). The strangeness in the \"a\" is probably the
    best example of what might or might not need to be happening.\r\n\r\nThis -very
    personal- decision has to come before any specific glyph critiques can really
    be worthwhile I think.\r\n\r\n> 8 points its intended size\r\n\r\nAlthough the
    ample width might point towards such a smallish size, the vertical proportions
    are more significant, and there (especially in the longish descenders) I'm seeing
    10-11 point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-13 04:58:55'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "What a pleasure waking up to such praise! Thank you, thank you, Hrant and
    Ben. This really is the greatest encouragement. \r\n\r\nHrant, this typeface originally
    had a 'j' very similar to yours, like this: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_3_3605.png]\r\n\r\nI
    abandoned that idea because it made the very usual (in the Nordic languages and
    in Albanian) digraph 'gj' close to impossible. \r\n\r\nI've never even heard of
    Bremer Antiqua, thanks for that link. I'm looking forward to studying that now.\r\n\r\nI
    want this to be an original typeface rather than a conventional one. And I agree
    that my 'a' is the ideologically most important glyph. I'll start redrawing things
    as soon as possible, that will be in seven hours or so. \r\n\r\nBen, I'm really
    looking forward to your critique. "
  created: '2011-04-13 07:47:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well well! I can see you've had a lot of fun drawing this! I like the way
    you've balanced the variables: smooth/cuspy, sharp/soft, lively/restrained. It's
    very artful, almost every glyph has some unexpected delight! I especially love
    the Pagan-cross shapes of F and the 4, which is just incredible.\r\n\r\nI'm having
    to go into the realm of vague suggestions since this is already so polished, so
    be wary of taking my comments too seriously.\r\n\r\nA seems somehow a bit plain.
    I like the spur on the apex of your AE, wonder whether that would work on the
    A. Also the foot serifs feel a little flat/shallow.\r\n\r\nB is perhaps heavy
    on the left, meaning add a fraction more weight to the arches. Compare with D.\r\n\r\nTail
    of C looks unresolved. And the tail of J may be an area to play with.\r\n\r\nQ:
    This puzzles me. The overall shape fits well with the rest of the alphabet, but
    I'm curious whether there is a better solution for the tail. Crossing the bowl?\r\n\r\nT
    arm-serifs look lighter than on E; I'd expect them to be heavier.\r\n\r\nOn U,
    I'd be tempted to try bringing the weight down the left slope more.\r\n\r\nW:
    I think the apex needs a slightly wider top, but that would lift some of the weight
    there upwards, which would not look so great, so also lowering it a fraction might
    be the solution. In fact that right hand downstroke could do with a couple of
    units extra weight I think.\r\n\r\nLowercase\r\n\r\na, f, m, q, r, t and u are
    super. I'd personally agree that the flags of f and r could take more weight,
    but Craig's also right, see how it looks in text.\r\n\r\nc is wide. Just an observation,
    I don't know what to think of it :)\r\n\r\nCounter of d looks somehow oblong compared
    to the more oval ones in p and q.\r\n\r\ne: yes. I'm a real fan of the inky eye,
    but I'd want an alternate for larger sizes, somewhere closer to the e part of
    /ae/ and /oe/. (I think these two may be too wide, and the vertical side to the
    counter of /a/ in the /ae/ bugs me. But I'd happily defer to your familiarity
    with these glyphs.)\r\n\r\ng: I'm not accustomed to the narrow tail, and to my
    eye the terminal seems a bit far to the right, but I'd want to see how it works
    in text before recommending any change. \r\n\r\nh may be a bit wide, or not.\r\n\r\nI'm
    curious about the placement of the tittles. \r\n\r\nI don't know how, but the
    w seems very much to bear your signature, it reminds me of your previous typefaces,
    which are actually rather different. I like the way you draw w.\r\n\r\nLoving
    the shape of thorn! Diacritics may be slightly too large (but only slightly, I
    like the weight of them). Placement of acute and grave may be too central.\r\n\r\nComma
    may be out of character?\r\n\r\nSection sign may be falling left. It's an absolute
    beast to draw.\r\n\r\nI absolutely love the numerals, but some of them feel too
    sharp/crisp/stripped/modern. Like comparing the 567 with the glyphs in the line
    above, they sort of seem like a different tone. This is probably connected with
    what Hrant said about the strangeness. Is the contract too vertical on 5 and 6?
    I fear the 4 may be too wide, but don't change the shape please! Also I wondered
    whether you could curve the diagonal of the 7 into a swashy terminal like the
    2 and 3. 3 and 5 may need more open lower bowls.\r\n\r\nWell I hope this hasn't
    put you off by seeming like there's too much to do...it's been instructive to
    look so carefully at what works and doesn't work for me. Thanks for sharing! :)"
  created: '2011-04-13 14:03:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you for yet another invaluable piece of criticism, Ben. Not offputting
    at all, rather the opposite. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rev1_5815.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    my very first partial revision. I've only concentrated on some of the most important
    lower case letters. More to follow.\r\n\r\n'e' is now more related to 'a'. Have
    I've done the opposite of what you both suggested? Feel free to slaughter it.
    \r\n\r\n's' is a litter wider, slightly more \"upside down\" and slightly rotated
    and fattened, inspired by Bremer Antiqua. \r\n\r\n'd' was faulty, thanks for spotting
    that, Ben.\r\n\r\n'g' is somewhat tweaked. I didn't quite understand your advice,
    Ben. Is this any better? \r\n\r\n'f' and 'r' slightly altered.  \r\n\r\n'c' a
    tiny bit narrower now.\r\n\r\nExcept for the 'e' (and perhaps the 's'), these
    are all rather minor tweaks. Maybe I should follow Hrant's advice and think a
    lot more on this typeface before I continue drawing. Any way, all your input will
    be taken into account. Thanks again."
  created: '2011-04-13 15:47:58'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Er ... that 'c' really is too wide, isn't it?
  created: '2011-04-13 15:53:59'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: My humble input would be that the diagonal stroke of the /4/ is curved in
    the wrong direction. I'd suggest that it be concave not convex. But only a fraction.
    Not that there is a right or wrong, IMHO more harmonious.
  created: '2011-04-13 16:07:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I still think it''s worth trying to harden that outer contour of e at the
    right end of the crossbar to a point - make it akin to /G/''s beard (or even,
    in a way, the famous /U/ cusps). Right now it just seems too soft to me (softer
    now that you''ve sloped the crossbar--which, this problem aside, I think works
    well). '
  created: '2011-04-13 16:10:43'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Well, yes, that's not quite what I was expecting with the e! Interesting,
    but for me not quite there yet.\r\n\r\nI guess what I meant about g was that the
    bottom half of the tail wasn't quite long enough...I think it makes the whole
    shape look a little falling to the left, but that could also be because the top
    of the tail slopes quite a lot. The latest one feels more comfortable to me, but
    best seek others' opinions on this.\r\n\r\nc: it did strike me as somewhat wide,
    but that's because I draw rather narrow ones usually. It's perfectly acceptable
    wide, if you like it."
  created: '2011-04-13 16:11:33'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Working out the /e/ will help with deciding on /c/'s width.
  created: '2011-04-13 16:14:19'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "'e' alternatives, one sharpened, one faux-Venetian. Any of these going in
    any direction? This is darn difficult!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rev2_5430.png]\r\n\r\n(B
    is tweaked as per Ben's suggestion, by the way.)"
  created: '2011-04-13 16:49:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Andrew, those numerals are all very first draft. I'm almost certain that my
    '4' is overdone, but I think such a structure could possibly work. I'll sort those
    guys out after lower and upper case.
  created: '2011-04-13 16:55:54'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I would say the top one doesn't go quite far enough, and the bottom one goes
    quite a bit too far.\r\nMaybe something yet in between, where that outer contour
    coming down just loses its convexity, but doesn't bump out into a spur."
  created: '2011-04-13 16:57:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "You make it sound so easy. :-)\r\n\r\nThis any better? (I feel typeblind
    already.) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rev3_3759.png]"
  created: '2011-04-13 17:36:29'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm picturing something (roughly) like this.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/beat_3852.gif]\r\nSorry
    if I'm overstepping boundaries drawing on your letters - it's just hard for me
    to describe in words what I'm picturing."
  created: '2011-04-13 18:31:39'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'No problem at all, obviously I was too dim to understand your description.
    I''ve wound up with approximately that shape several times myself, and must say
    I''m unsure if it fits my vision for this typeface. I''ll try some more.  '
  created: '2011-04-13 18:53:01'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: No problems, Sindre!
  created: '2011-04-13 19:27:34'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: That a bowl is crazy similar to one of my sketches. (Off course) your type
    is balancing a lot more concepts simultaneously, which IMO often seems to be a
    cue for quality designs. I'm looking forward to some close inspection tomorrow.
  created: '2011-04-13 23:01:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'One thought off the shelf: have you tried a more straight sided cusped e?'
  created: '2011-04-13 23:03:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm unable to propose a solution to e, I'm afraid. But I know somehow it's
    the key to the rest of the font. Once you've nailed it, everything else will fall
    into place.
  created: '2011-04-14 00:17:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think adding a beak to the \"e\" is part of the solution; but a total solution
    -in terms of the whole font- still seems distant - assuming the current \"e\"
    and \"a\" are in fact being taken to heart. Alternatively you could tame the \"a\"
    and \"e\"* and soon end up with something easy to sell (and \"sell\").\r\n\r\n*
    In fact the original \"e\" seems tame enough for me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-14 00:42:52'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I really like the 4. You could tone it down just a little bit, but it's a
    great idea. The diagonal of the \xC6 seems uncharacteristically straight, and
    I think it could take inspiration from 4."
  created: '2011-04-14 04:41:10'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "'e' tweaking is slowly driving me mad ... this beak-shape feels alien to
    me, though I think it might be right. This typeface it not about doing the obvious.
    \r\n\r\nThe 'a' stays the way it is. \r\n\r\nFrode, not sure I understand your
    suggestion, remember to show me when we meet. \r\n\r\nThanks for liking the '4',
    Kevin. I think it'll be to the numerals what my 'a' is to the lower case. But
    some polishing is necessary, yes. \r\n\r\nPlease be candid, Hrant. What would
    you have done?\r\n\r\nHere are three 'e' variations. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_6687.png]"
  created: '2011-04-14 13:00:42'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "No. That beak isn't right. This is what feels right to me right now.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_4_5796.png]"
  created: '2011-04-14 13:58:30'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: /s/ is a bit top large isn't it?
  created: '2011-04-14 14:01:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Yes, it is. But that's a feature, not a flaw. :-)
  created: '2011-04-14 14:07:38'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like the third 'cares' /e/ best, FWIW. \r\n(All the /e/s look a little
    wide to me but maybe that's just that these words put it in the midst of naturally
    narrow letters...)\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-14 14:20:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: FWIW I like the last one you said feels right. If you do narrow it, you might
    also move the crossbar a little higher to maintain the proportions of that counter.
  created: '2011-04-14 17:40:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not holding back.  :-)\r\nI just think any ideological decision is personal
    so it has to come from you; all I can do is try to help reveal the issue. Until
    you settle on the spirit of the design any specific glyph critiques risk becoming
    moot.\r\n\r\nThat last \"e\" fits with the rest. The troublemaker -in the best
    possible sense- is the \"a\". You might actually leave it that way - for a text
    font it's not going to jump out; it might even become a conversation piece (like
    the [in]famous \"g\" in Meta). Or you could tame it, get over it*, and polish
    the font away. The hardest thing -again, in the best possible sense- would be
    to let the \"a\" trigger a full re-evaluation of the font - perhaps even hibernating
    the design again...\r\n\r\n* It's a maxim of sorts that -for a text face-\r\none
    must discard the most beautiful glyph.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-14 18:10:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "A different approach: The white of the eye of 'e' now is a morphed version
    of 'a's internal whitespace. I think this a minor breakthrough. The glyph is a
    little narrower too, and slightly tweaked in every thinkable way. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_5_6506.png]\r\n\r\nHrant,
    thank you for encouraging words. That 'a' is the raison d'\xEAtre of this typeface.
    So I have to make an even better glyph for discarding. "
  created: '2011-04-14 20:30:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thumbs up!
  created: '2011-04-14 21:20:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thank you, Craig! For the idea, for your sketch, and for thumbing up the result.
    Now, thirty-five minutes later, I'm still satisfied. I will dream about it tonight,
    for sure.
  created: '2011-04-14 22:06:51'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: I've always seen the relationship between the counters of the 'a' and the
    'e.' I think more type designers should focus on this synergy. Well done, Sindre!
  created: '2011-04-14 22:19:34'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Thanks, Trevor. In this case, there's a strong relationship between the other
    halves of those two glyphs as well. The 'e' needs that huge aperture because 'a'
    has an exceedingly large one, without any kind of serif. I'm afraid this will
    have further consequences, though ...
  created: '2011-04-14 22:29:07'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: Unfortunately I don't think that /g/ shares the same style with other letters.
    It seems odd and out of place. The descender simply doesn't seem right. Maybe
    the upper curve of the descender should be a bit more horizontal as it is now
    (and maybe a bit less heavy as well).
  created: '2011-04-15 01:18:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Now, thirty-five minutes later, I'm still satisfied.</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nHow can you not smile at it, when it's smiling so big at you! :-)\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I'm
    afraid this will have further consequences, though</blockquote>\r\n \r\nYup, time
    to reexamine your apertures. Hey, maybe your nice /s/ will be the beautiful letter
    that Hrant needs you to throw away! ;-)"
  created: '2011-04-15 04:31:36'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Apertures reexamined. I've tried to inject more whitespace everywhere. The
    'g' and the related 's' now has a faint echo of the 'a' and 'e' trick. I've chopped
    off most of the left-facing serifs, but not to the radical extent of Bremer Antiqua.
    I think this is going places, perhaps even the right ones. And no, I haven't forgotten
    all your helpful critique, I'm just following Hrant's advice. What do you think
    of this new direction, dear critics?\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_1_6093.png]"
  created: '2011-04-15 12:58:03'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I followed your advice on the ''g'', Robert, or rather it wound up the way
    you suggested as an attempt to make it more in style with other glyphs. The main
    reason for its slightly unorthodox shape is establishing some relation to the
    ''s''. All letters need friends. '
  created: '2011-04-15 13:02:39'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "It did yes. I think it looks much better now although descender should go
    a bit more to the left to stabilize it even further (or move the right part a
    bit more to the left). I very much like the top part descender stroke contrast.
    Very playful and a bit feminine.\r\n\r\nP.S. I never wanted you to follow my <em>advice</em>.
    I way only trying to point out things that I don't like. It's on you whether you
    see them the same way and agree or not. My observation about /s/ being a bit vertically
    unstable still stands but you said it's a feature. So it will stay. :)"
  created: '2011-04-15 18:03:06'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It looks to me as though the c is falling right and the s falling left in
    the latest sample.
  created: '2011-04-15 18:45:44'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: The 'i' is definitely falling left too.
  created: '2011-04-15 19:17:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: I can't understand how thickening 'c's stem by two units can have such an
    effect, and I can't see it myself. I've however made the 's' more stable by moving
    its upper part five units to the right (back to where it was, but the new structure
    is kept). I guess one could say that the 'i' (and the 'l') is less balanced now,
    but the structure itself is now almost completely different too. What about the
    Bremer Antiqua if my glyphs are falling? Perhaps I've made a big mistake by doing
    this. When I've worked my way through the lower case, I'll upload a pdf with text
    settings. I think that will answer that question.  [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_3_4990.png]
  created: '2011-04-15 20:15:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Pdf with text setting attached. No kerning at all, very basic spacing.  '
  created: '2011-04-15 21:28:21'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Er ... I realise my 12.15 pm posting (server time) sounds a little angry,
    irritated or agitated. That was not my intention at all, and I apologise for its
    harsh tone. I'm truly very grateful for all criticism. Keep it coming!
  created: '2011-04-15 21:59:00'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "This is looking grand! I like that you've decided to go with the 'strangeness'
    or 'inkiness' and would like so see how it translates onto some other glyphs (for
    example could the right arm inner serif do with a looser connection to the arm
    to mark another inky change in dynamic?)\r\n\r\nLowercase s looks slightly too
    light now. You're right it is amazing how much difference a few units can make...quite
    a puzzle really!\r\n\r\nI like the way the square brackets don't even have straight
    lines!"
  created: '2011-04-15 22:18:53'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Ben. I'm really uncertain about those weird serifs now, but I'm
    going to continue in this direction, as it initially felt slightly epiphanic.
    \r\n\r\nI'm afraid I don't quite understand your suggestion, which glyph(s) are
    you talking about? \r\n\r\nYes, I've noticed the light 's'. I think that glyph
    (and its sibling, the 'g') needs to be too a little light in this typeface, but
    perhaps I've overdone it. What would your approach to fattening it slightly be?
    Vertical or horizontal weight gain? \r\n\r\nNo straight lines. That's a premise
    and a promise. "
  created: '2011-04-15 22:33:48'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sorry, I missed out the important bit! I was looking at the v, which seemed
    a little 'straight' next to the new style inky bits.\r\n\r\nWith the s, it seemed
    that the thins could just be a unit or two fatter, probably on the inside. What
    was your reasoning for making it light? I haven't come across that logic before!"
  created: '2011-04-15 22:40:51'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_4_4865.png]\r\n\r\nNew 'v',
    fatter 's', slightly tweaked 'i'. I'm still not sure if I understood your 'v'
    suggestion, Ben. \r\n\r\nAbout light 's's: Never really thought about it, but
    I think it has to do with overall colour. Complicated, curvy letters (a, s, g)
    may look blacker compared to simpler glyphs from a distance than they do up close.
    Don't know if this is really true, or just a hangup of mine. "
  created: '2011-04-15 23:16:15'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yeah, I'm speaking gobbledygook. It's been a long day :)\r\n\r\nI was imagining
    taking the idea of the fluid corner of the eye of the e and transposing it onto
    the counter of v. So the whitespace on the right serif has a larger radius/shallower
    notch...if that makes sense?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-16 00:03:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Two units is plenty to see an effect.\r\n\r\nGlyphs are not vases - they
    don't risk falling down! This is especially true in a text face. Furthermore,
    imbalance can just as well mean dynamism, which to me seems part of the spirit
    of this design. A cobra isn't a cobra without that huge head. And a cobra is awesome.
    So I would be very wary of taming something like the original \"s\".\r\n\r\nBTW,
    as you suspect, the \"s\", binocular \"g\", and any glyph that's dense <em>needs</em>
    to look too light when viewed large for it to work well at text sizes.\r\n\r\n>
    No straight lines.\r\n\r\nAssuming you haven't already, you might like to study
    the thoughts and work of Evert Bloemsma, who used to say \"A straight line is
    a dead line\" (although IIRC he got that from one of his former teachers).\r\n\r\nI
    myself believe that balancing straight and curved is what's optimal. For one thing,
    death is a part of life too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-16 01:24:50'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Looking great!\r\nFWIW I don't see any \"falling\" that would be problematic.\r\n\r\nThe
    cap /R/ looks low-waisted, because the leg emerging so close to the stem makes
    the lower counter much smaller than the upper. \r\n\r\nRight (thick) leg of /A/:
    I would trim back the serif on the left (interior) side.\r\n\r\nI printed the
    text setting on my mediocre HP laser and saw these weight issues, for what it's
    worth (I don't know if the problem resides in the design or in my printer resolution
    (or hinting?)):\r\n/b/f/t/u/ light\r\n/i/l/n/p/ heavy"
  created: '2011-04-16 03:50:49'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Hrant, your thoughts on glyph balance and weight distribution makes me happy.
    I'm a lot less experienced than you, but it seems we have drawn somewhat similar
    conclusions. Thank you for your cobra metaphor, I'll remember that. (I learned
    vector drawing from designing traditional Norwegian boats (descendents of Viking
    \xE6ra vessels, still built (in unbroken tradition) in the Western and Northern
    parts of Norway); their seemingly idiosyncratic hull shapes (\"cod in the front,
    mackerel in the back\") makes sense first when on water. I think a text face works
    much in the same way.) \r\n\r\nYes, I've studied Bloemsma, and even sketched a
    couple of faces based on his principles, more or less. Here are some glyphs from
    one of them: \r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_7_6484.png]\r\n\r\nI
    now realise that this is the true beginning of the typeface this thread is about.\r\n\r\nMy
    decision to use only curves in this typeface is one I made only because restrictions
    fuel my inspiration. Also, this is my last typeface made for purely self-educational
    reasons. Next time, it's serious. No such rigid rules then. (A critic once said
    that Richard Wagner's music is much better than it sounds. I feel the same way
    about Evert Bloemsma.)\r\n\r\nCraig, thanks for printing. I've adressed the issues
    you brought up. No more drawing today, but I'll start refining the upper case
    tomorrow. "
  created: '2011-04-16 16:51:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I learned vector drawing from designing traditional Norwegian boats\r\n\r\nInteresting.\r\nAnd
    I can think of two other type designer you might study: Starling Burgess and\r\nMiles
    Newlyn. I know of the latter's interest in boats through his Flickr stream: http://www.flickr.com/photos/69998588@N00/5582002742\r\n\r\n>
    this is my last typeface made for purely self-educational reasons.\r\n\r\nWell,
    if this is non-commercial then definitely\r\nworry about ideology much more than
    salability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-16 17:10:54'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/revidert_5481.jpg]\r\n\r\nUpper and lower
    case revised, pdf attached. Absolutely no kerning. Spacing still basic. Any thoughts
    on the letter fit? \r\n\r\nI've tried using the turning-contrast idea on several
    new glyphs, most notably 'v' and its siblings. (Is this what you meant, Ben?)\r\n\r\nHrant,
    all my typefaces are non-commercial, type drawing is just a hobby. (Though the
    most time-consuming I've ever had.) That <em>may</em> change, but so far, I haven't
    even once thought about salability. \r\n"
  created: '2011-04-18 20:39:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I like that adjustment on /v/ & kin. I wonder what a similar (but more slight)
    treatment would do for the caps in that family.\r\n\r\nI like the /A/ apex. \r\n\r\nAdd
    a cap /U/ to your text setting - I want to see that cusp in action.\r\n\r\nYou
    might want to make a /Th/ ligature."
  created: '2011-04-18 23:25:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ooh, thank you for the A!\r\n\r\nI'm too tired to give a full crit now, but
    I like it very much even with tired eyes ;)\r\n\r\nYes, that's what I was clumsily
    trying to explain for the v...do you feel it's in keeping?\r\n\r\nI'm sure others
    would agree you could be missing a trick by not thinking about making some of
    your work commercially available.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'll be back when I'm a bit fresher.
    Good night."
  created: '2011-04-18 23:26:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, let's do this!  :-)\r\n\r\nThe \"g\" is nearly ideal to me. I would make
    the ear rise though.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice to have a more forceful \"j\". Is
    \"gj\" that serious a problem?\r\n\r\nThe \"m\" could be narrower.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"u\" is wide. Probably because it's the same width as the \"n\"; it has to be
    slightly narrower to <em>appear</em> the same width.\r\n\r\nThe \"x\" is probably
    too dark.\r\n\r\nThe \"E\" is too wide I think.\r\n\r\nThe face-punched-in \"G\"
    needs work...\r\n\r\nThe leg of the \"K\" is too weak.\r\n\r\nI would make the
    bowl of the \"P\" much larger.\r\n\r\nThat \"Q\" is way too timid; this font needs
    one with a <em>kick</em>.\r\n\r\nThe \"R\" is exquisite.\r\n\r\nI would give the
    \"S\" a smaller head.\r\n\r\nThe \"U\" is luscious. Don't let people convince
    you to change it.\r\n\r\nAs in the lc the \"X\" is probably too dark.\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW,
    looking at your body text I got this vibe that I hadn't felt in a long time. This
    design reminds me of Quadraat - not because of any formal attributes, but in the
    way it seems to say \"I've been doing this for a long time - you can trust me.\"\r\n\r\nConcerning
    the point size:\r\nLooking at your setting, and comparing the vertical proportions
    and the width to some reference designs, I think it's best suited for 10pt, and
    can work at 11pt. (That's assuming your lc letters span nearly the entire EM.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-19 05:00:46'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Thank you very much! I have no time now, but there''ll be an update tonight. '
  created: '2011-04-19 09:19:50'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Oh boy, too exhausted after a long, long day of b\xE5tpuss (preparing your
    boat for the season, ancient Norwegian tradition) for anything type-related tonight,
    the promised update must wait till tomorrow. "
  created: '2011-04-19 21:34:17'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: You may have a slight problem with /ae/ (and possibly /k/ as well) at small
    sizes. Top part of the lower closed counter (and top diagonal stem of /k/) seems
    a bit too thin at its thinnest point. At smaller text sizes it may turn out as
    if printing is bad since it may come out too thin and there may not be enough
    ink.
  created: '2011-04-20 00:49:54'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Type spectacles now on. \r\n\r\nA appears slightly light, perhaps. One place
    you could add weight would be the crossbar, but this might not be the look you
    want. I tried this in my so far very underwhelming <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ohbendy/5554664424/in/set-72157626167101796\">Dutch
    Antiqua</a>'s A.\r\n\r\nThe tail of C still bothers me; I'm expecting a little
    more definition, maybe not as far as mirroring the top serif but something. Hm,
    not sure.\r\n\r\nThe stem of D seems light next to the large counter. \r\n\r\nI
    wonder whether an Emerson style Q would work here. (Top left image in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/76254#comment-439596\">this
    post</a>)\r\n\r\nAgree with Hrant about the lc u being a touch wide; however for
    me the G works beautifully.\r\n\r\nI wonder whether z could have a spur or two
    on the serifs or even on its angles.\r\n\r\nLooking forward to seeing numerals
    and punctuation. I'm still thinking comma and quotes are too modern looking, but
    I'm a stickler for commas! :)"
  created: '2011-04-20 10:36:27'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<Cite>\"A straight line is a dead line\"</cite>\r\n\r\nBloemsma's ideal is
    nice, but the reality in digital fonts is that you're always having to cope with
    a grid. Lines that are long, flat, but not quite straight tend to rasterize with
    bumps and jogs that look like mistakes. \r\n\r\nIt's fine to avoid straight lines
    as part of your design concept, but if a line wants to be straight \u2014\_make
    it straight. Don't knock it three units off plumb just on principle."
  created: '2011-04-21 22:17:04'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Phew, things take time. Been tinkering forever after the last round of critique.
    This is what I've done (see pdf):\r\n\r\nA: A little weight added both on crossbar
    and stroke.\r\nC: Slightly meatier tail.\r\nD: Weight equalisitation.\r\nE: A
    little narrower, some polish\r\nG: Same shape, but slightly less extreme \r\nJ:
    Prettier curves under the baseline.\r\nK: More tension in the foot.\r\nM & N:
    Finishing polish\r\nP: Significantly larger bowl \r\nQ: Oh boy, oh boy. I've tried
    a lot of stuff, and wound up with this. Couldn't make a crossing tail model work.
    That's a shape I just don't understand, obciously. \r\nR: Polish.\r\nS: A lot
    of subtle tweaks.\r\nV, W: Polish.\r\nX: Less black, polish.\r\nY: Polish.\r\nZ:
    Less black, polish.\r\n\r\nSlightly narrower (and weight-compensated) 'm' and
    'u'. 'x' is lighter, and significantly tweaked. 'k' is slightly weight-tweaked.
    And I've made a working \"\xE6\", the old was just a leftover from several iterations
    ago. \r\n\r\n<cite>Is \"gj\" that serious a problem?</cite>\r\n\r\nOh yes. 806
    words in Bokm\xE5l, 2967 in Nynorsk. Grammatically correct sentences with /gj/
    in every word can easily be constructed. Very, very common in Icelandic, Faroese
    and Albanian too. \r\n\r\n<cite>[...] but in the way it seems to say \"I've been
    doing this for a long time - you can trust me.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is some compliment.
    Thank you! (I wish I felt the same way.)\r\n\r\n<cite>I wonder whether z could
    have a spur or two on the serifs or even on its angles.</cite>\r\n\r\nPossibly,
    I have doubts about both zeds, actually. Something to look into tomorrow. Along
    with numerals (the top terminals on 2 and 3 must go, mustn't they?) and punctuation.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-21 23:07:30'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "\xA4"
  created: '2011-04-22 01:44:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>[...] my own Paphos [...]</cite>\r\n\r\nAfter seeing that 'j', I'm
    very curious about that typeface. Any other bits of it you possibly could show?"
  created: '2011-04-22 11:20:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm a big fan of accommodating the grid* (which is NOT to say I'm a fan of
    <em>inventing</em> a grid as a feelgood or a cop-out). But if the grid in question
    is finer than human perception (which some people believe is anything above ~1000dpi;
    in any case 2400dpi seems pretty safe) then one can say it does become moot.\r\n\r\n*
    Proof: I love bitmap fonts.\r\n\r\n> Don't knock it three units off plumb just
    on principle.\r\n\r\nWhat's a better reason than principle?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 15:42:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've shown the \"Q\" on Typophile before, so here it is again:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paphos_ucq_5860.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    logic behind the \"Q\" is that making the top less like an \"O\" is key.\r\n\r\nI
    have roughs of all the basic alphanumerics,\r\nbut it's quite possible they're
    all wrong!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 15:59:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "That's ingenious. The Q is a bastard of a glyph, posing as some easy-going
    vowel while being the awkwardest of consonants. It's wrong that it shares 'O's
    shape. \r\n\r\nPaphos needs to be finished, by the way. "
  created: '2011-04-22 16:12:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Some unifying tweaks on f, r, y. (And a working \xF8)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_5_4089.png]"
  created: '2011-04-22 16:21:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"t\" -a central character- is too tilty. You could keep the stem inclined\r\nbut
    maybe turn the crossbar a bit counter-clockwise to offset the effect.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    thanks for the compliments and encouragement.\r\nJust for that I'll show you my
    killer \"g\"...  :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/paphos_lcg_6519.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 17:06:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Whoa, that's a weapon for executing infidels! The negative spaces have really
    beautiful shapes, and somehow doesn't quite share the aggression of the strokes.
    I like the lemon-shaped bowl too. \r\n\r\nHere's a (hopefully) improved 't':\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t_3665.png]"
  created: '2011-04-22 18:06:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I think it's the second-most-violent glyph I've ever made...  :-)\r\nNegative
    space: it <em>is</em> the female in Yin/Yang after all!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe \"t\"
    works now I think.\r\n\r\nI would balance the widths more in the \"\xE6\".\r\n\r\nIsn't
    the \"j\" too dark?\r\n\r\nBTW, your caps settings exhibit uncommon grace and
    power.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 19:56:43'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "I absolutely can't wait to see the italics.\r\n\r\nWe need to start coming
    up with names for this... :)"
  created: '2011-04-22 20:05:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love Typophile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 20:11:17'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Glad you're finding my pangrams useful. \r\n\r\nLatest /t/ adjustments are
    very nice.\r\n\r\nShould the top horizontal of /Z/ be a bit longer (bring the
    top terminal leftward)?\r\n\r\nThat enlarged P bowl went a bit too far IMO.\r\n\r\nI
    would consider bracketing the spur on eszett, at least on top.\r\n\r\nBTW I gave
    my type history students pdf's of this and Telefon to have them practice their
    crit skills!"
  created: '2011-04-22 20:57:30'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, guys. I need to rest now (getting type blind), but I will post
    some updates tomorrow. \r\n\r\n<cite>[...] settings exhibit uncommon grace and
    power.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat can I say but thank you. Those words I'll remember.\r\n\r\nTrevor,
    here's an early sneak preview of the italic. (I doubt the closed 'g', really a
    joke, will survive.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kurs_5632.png]\r\n\r\nI
    agree with the 'Z' and the 'P', Craig. \r\n\r\nIt would be great fun to hear what
    your students make of my typefaces. \r\n\r\nI love Typophile! (Who needs a formal
    education in type design? I've learnt more from this website than I've ever learnt
    from any teacher.)"
  created: '2011-04-22 21:43:29'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "<cite>[...] the second-most-violent glyph I've ever made</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    forgot to ask the obvious question. Please?"
  created: '2011-04-22 22:25:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, you twisted my arm.  :-)\r\nIt's from Brutaal (part of the Daam Entity).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brutaal_lcg_6003.gif]\r\n\r\nBut
    that's not counting the question mark I made for\r\nFont Aid II, since the violence
    there was self-inflicted...\r\n\r\nAnyway, enough about me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-22 23:41:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I love Typophile.\r\nHear hear.\r\n\r\nLoving the italic k, I had something
    similar going on with Nola.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nola k_6073.jpg]\r\n\r\nOff
    topic, sorry...Hrant, that g is phenomenal. We should start an unexpected-g club
    or something. Is there anywhere we can see more of your stuff? I've only ever
    seen Patria and would love to see how your ideas translate into full alphabets."
  created: '2011-04-23 00:04:41'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'Great k, Ben! It looks like it tests if the new ice on the river is thick
    enough for skating on. '
  created: '2011-04-23 00:25:14'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Another slight update. Now it <em>really</em> is bedtime. \r\n\r\nWider 'Z',
    moderated 'P' bowl, lighter 'j', equalised '\xE6'. The \xE6 shape is unorthodox,
    by the way. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_7_4604.png]\r\n\r\nOuch,
    that 'g' looks like a combined mezzaluna, sickle, leather cutter and scythe, with
    attached rose thorn and sharktooth. It also looks like a blackletter from another
    planet. "
  created: '2011-04-23 00:30:52'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> The \xE6 shape is pretty unorthodox, by the way. \r\n\r\nCan you say any
    more about that? It's another letter I don't use, so I'm interested to hear your
    observations."
  created: '2011-04-23 00:46:23'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Yes, usually the stem of the a part goes all the way down, emphasing the
    left part of the glyph, like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_8_4986.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    chosen to keep the left curve of the e part intact instead, breaking the a stem.
    Caslon does this too, so I guess unorthodox was too strong a word.   "
  created: '2011-04-23 01:06:00'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I'm quite loving this. I must say, though, that I think the capitals are
    a bit... tame, compared to the lowercase. Perhaps you could incorporate some of
    the interestingness \u2013 if that is a word \u2013 of the lowercase into the
    capitals as well? The g does stand out a bit for me, the top bowl looks to be
    a bit light, and I think I would prefer a closed loo, although it's better in
    the last image you posted than in the earlier images. The \xE6 looks fine to me.\r\n\r\nI
    think your italic sketch is ok in itself, although I'm not sure how well it pairs
    with the roman. Maybe it's the axis of the contrast; slightly diagonal in the
    roman, but pretty much vertical in that italic sketch."
  created: '2011-04-23 16:57:57'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you for commenting, Jelmar.\r\n\r\nI've thought the same thing about
    the upper case myself. But isn't it always like that? I think this typeface needs
    some kind of serenity in its upper case, as so much is going on elsewhere. And
    it isn't that conventional, is it? I'd say U, J, G, R (and to a lesser extent
    the new Q, which no-one has commented on, by the way) are all somewhat progressive
    for a traditional text face. I tried injecting more of that contrast-trickery
    into the upper case alphabet, and found it lost character rather than gained.
    I think almost all upper case alphabets are less fun than their children. Unlike
    them, the adult letters have a unifying design and inner logic that needs to be
    there. \r\n\r\nI'll have another look on the 'g'. I'm very satisfied with it waist
    down, but the upper part may need something. \r\n\r\nHere's an ampersand, basic
    punctuation and three different question marks. Please help me decide with one
    deserves further development. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_9_5347.png]\r\n\r\nAnother
    thought: Not once while drawing have I been using historical models for my letters,
    or even looked much at other typefaces. All my previous attempts have been quite
    east to classify. But which category would you put this typeface in? "
  created: '2011-04-23 20:03:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The ampersand is OK. Just OK.\r\n\r\nI like the third question mark - the
    others are too old-fashioned.\r\n\r\nClassification: I wouldn't worry too much,
    but maybe Oldstyle? Or Neo-Oldstyle?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-23 20:09:52'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: Classification... I think the proportions are fairly classical/humanistic
    (i.e. height to width ratio etc). But its obviously not a straight up humanist
    face.
  created: '2011-04-23 20:15:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I vote for question mark 1. It's better looking than 2, and more fitting than
    3.
  created: '2011-04-23 20:31:43'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "I don't worry a second about classification, I rather want this to defy classification.
    I've been thinking it would have to go into that hopelessly diverse transitional-drawer
    because of a and g, (and upper case proportions, aren't those too equalised for
    a renaissance face?) but then there's the ambiguous e and all those cusps ...
    yes, I think this is slowly coming together. \r\n\r\n<cite>Just OK.</em>\r\n\r\nThen
    it won't do. I feel the same way; its prettiness outdone by its blandness. \r\n\r\nI
    think a synthesis between question mark 1 and 3 could work. I agree that no. 3
    is most interesting, but not quite right. I think I can fix that. (This is why
    I rarely make variants. Decisions should make themselves.)  \r\n\r\nBy the way,
    what's your favourite ampersands, good people? I need inspiration ..."
  created: '2011-04-23 21:10:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like ampersands that are topologically simple, featuring one or more of:
    open top, \"missing\" upward arm, internal part(s) \"removed\".\r\n\r\nMy favorite
    ampersand is probably the one in Triplex Italic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-23 21:55:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I'm all for avoiding frivolous variants, but sometimes it makes great
    functional sense. Example: your \"j\"! Have a strong one as the main form and
    a shy one for following a \"g\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-23 21:58:19'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: In that last image you posted, the H and R look so much darker than the lowercase
    characters - maybe you should look at the stroke thickness of your capitals again?
  created: '2011-04-23 23:30:15'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Pretty good thread on ampersands here:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/39812\r\nAnd
    more inspiration here:\r\nhttp://ampersandampersand.tumblr.com/"
  created: '2011-04-23 23:41:28'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tumblr_ljped1ga5s1qduugjo1_500_5846.jpg]'
  created: '2011-04-24 16:31:47'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, guys.\r\n\r\nNew ampersand. I've tweaked it for countless hours,
    and have gone totally blind. Can this structure work? Is it wrong to adjust the
    arm to x-height? Is it too dark?\r\n\r\nRevised question mark. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_10_6374.png]\r\n\r\nI've
    been worrying a little about the colour difference between l.c & u.c. too. I'll
    keep that in mind. \r\n\r\nHrant, The problem with the old 'j' is that no other
    glyph has kept its traits. Originally, f, g, r, y, j had that beak. Do you really
    think it could work all alone? Er ... perhaps it could be made to resemble 'g'
    and 's'. "
  created: '2011-04-24 16:51:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the new ampersand rules!\r\n\r\nThe question mark is a bit too smooth
    - it needs some of that funky modulation.\r\n\r\nYou may be right about the old
    \"j\". What about a Centaur-style one?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nToday,
    learn about the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-24 17:01:54'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: That new ampersand works beautifully.
  created: '2011-04-24 17:08:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: It has shades of Golden type I'd say it;s a venetian
  created: '2011-04-24 17:12:38'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you very much! That ampersand was a nightmare, but one I learnt a lot
    from. One structural problem with the ampersand is that it has to balance between
    upper and lower case, as it belongs to neither (or both). I tried to do that by
    combining the upper case cusp and diagonal with the lower case flag serif and
    v/k/x-arm. \r\n\r\nI'm quite satisfied with that my new ampersand has a rather
    conventional outline, yet still is structurally not so orthodox. One can clearly
    see a rather undistorted 'et', without the glyph being too cursive nor too \"literal\".\r\n\r\nYour
    honest and very qualified critique is invaluable! I cannot imagine how I can ever
    draw type this good without Typophile. \r\n\r\nI think Centaur's j terminal looks
    like melting, brittle metal. That's cool, but not for my typeface. But I'll try
    to come up with a more distinct shape (though I quite like it as it is, I realise
    it might be a bit passive.)  \r\n\r\nI think I need to do something else than
    drawing tomorrow. Stay tuned for updates in a couple of days.\r\n\r\nThat is one
    insane g, Sevag! Thank you. \r\n\r\nI've thought about making such an upwards-pointing
    spur on mine, by the way, but just can't get it right. Should I keep trying? By
    the way, what are good examples of typefaces with an open 'g'? I'm not counting
    Baskerville, it's aperture is purely ornamental.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-24 19:16:13'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Serifs: \r\n\r\n\u2022 Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s [[http://www.teff.nl/fonts/ruse/index.html|Ruse]]\r\n\u2022
    Jeremy Tankard\u2019s [[http://typography.net/fontfamilies/view/19|Enigma]]. \r\n\u2022
    Robert Slimbach\u2019s [[http://www.linotype.com/57424/kepler-family.html?subviewmode=FONTS&samplestr=Handgloves|Kepler]]\r\n\u2022
    Colin Brignall\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/itc-italia/|ITC
    Italia]]\r\n\u2022 Eric Spiekerman\u2019s [[http://metaserif.com/|Meta Serif]]\r\n\u2022
    Typejockeys\u2019 [[http://www.typejockeys.com/fonts/Ingeborg|Ingeborg]]\r\n\u2022
    [[http://new.myfonts.com/search/Cheltenham/fonts/|Cheltenham]]\r\n\u2022 Zuzana
    Licko\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/emigre/mrs-eaves-ot/|Mrs Eaves]]\r\n\u2022
    Steve Jackaman\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/redrooster/schiller-antiqua-rr/|Schiller
    Antiqua]]\r\n\u2022 [[http://new.myfonts.com/search/cochin/fonts/|Some Cochin
    stuff]]\r\n\u2022 Dino dos Santos\u2019 [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/dstype/andrade-pro/|Andrade]]
    and also his [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/dstype/cultura/|Cultura]]\r\n\u2022
    Yuri Gordon\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/letterheadrussia/anti-quasi/|AntiQuasi]]\r\n\u2022
    Paratype\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/bodoni/|Bodoni]] by Alexander
    Tarbeev\r\n\u2022 Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez\u2019 [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/typofonderie/ambroise-std/|Ambroise]]\r\n\u2022
    Fran\xE7ois Rappo\u2019s [[http://optimo.ch/pages/departement/index.php?id_categorie=1&id_font=9|Didot
    Elder]]\r\n\u2022 Michael Mischler and Nik Thoenen\u2019s [[http://www.binnenland.ch/|Catalog]]\r\n\u2022
    Miles Newlyn\u2019s [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/emigre/democratica/|Democratica]]\r\n\u2022
    Kontrapunkt\u2019s own [[http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Kontrapunkt|Kontrapunkt]]"
  created: '2011-04-24 22:42:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sindre, I fully agree with you on Baskerville's \"g\". I have previously
    called its opening \"apologetic\", but ornamental (or cosmetic) might be even
    better. There is however one Baskerville revival that does it right: Fountain's
    \"1757\".\r\n\r\nFrode, nice of you to compile such a list! Personally I only
    find Ingeborg's to be good enough (although the one in Tarbeev's Bodoni is OK).
    Sindre's is better than any of those... although maybe I feel that way because
    it's structurally similar to the one in my own Patria:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/patria_lcg_4233.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    Sindre, in fact the only thing I'd change in yours (which I mentioned before)
    would be to give it a rising ear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nToday, learn
    about the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-24 22:57:56'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I don't think Enigma's g is half bad, mainly because the aperture is so high
    and the link frees up space. It doesn't look like a mistake, like most other open
    binocular g's.
  created: '2011-04-25 01:02:25'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Frode! I've been browsing your typeface list, and I have to agree
    with Hrant. Those g's aren't really similar to ours, they are all (even Ingeborg's)
    embellishments on the same old structure. Most of them treat the opening like
    the gap in a renaissance 'P', the stroke is continued, althoug there's no ink
    there. Our 'g' descenders are much more independent, and they have a terminus.
    \r\n\r\nIngeborg (that I haven't at all heard about) is irritatingly similar to
    my unfinished Mondegreen, by the way). While it's a good typeface, I think it
    suffers from slighly sloppy curves and lack of attention to micro-detail. Enigma
    is good, too. \r\n\r\nIt looks like the typeface from your list that has the most
    comparable g's to ours is ITC Italia. But the rest of it looks like a parody of
    William Morris' parody of Nicolaus Jenson.  \r\n\r\nHrant, your right (again),
    I've now come to think that an upwards-pointing ear is inevitable. "
  created: '2011-04-25 01:10:52'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Er ... I must have been <em>extremely</em> tired when I wrote that last post.
    Otherwise I wouldn't have made one of the most embarassing orthographical errors
    one can possibly make in English. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-25 10:42:50'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'Another one for that list: Jos Buivenga''s <a href="http://new.myfonts.com/search/fertigo/fonts/">Fertigo</a>.'
  created: '2011-04-25 11:01:08'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Couldn't help myself. Here's a first draft of a new 'g'. I'm unsure about
    this.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_1_4376.png]"
  created: '2011-04-25 13:00:34'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'That ear followed by a midline serif (as in /n/) strikes a sour note, I''m
    afraid. '
  created: '2011-04-25 14:59:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Keep it simple (that's what I had to do\r\nafter trying too hard with the
    ear in Patria).\r\n\r\nBTW, one inspiration for my \"g\" was the one\r\nin the
    Italic of Zapf-International (and I have\r\nRoy Preston to thank for pointing
    it out to me).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-25 16:13:35'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "This simple? (Very quickly thrown together, but I think the structure just
    might work.)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_2_5893.png]"
  created: '2011-04-25 17:05:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe a little too chipper. Try curling it the other way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-25 17:33:06'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_3_4201.png]'
  created: '2011-04-25 17:42:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That's looking promising. Would you consider softening the underside join,
    kind of like you had with the \"signal range\" version?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gspot_4194.gif]"
  created: '2011-04-25 18:02:56'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Oh yes. The version I showed just wasn't fused into one outline yet. In fact,
    softening of corners has become quite a compulsion for me, fonts with sharp corners
    and straight lines now look unfinished and crude to me (though I know that isn't
    the case. I also know that most of my time-consuming filing and filling won't
    be visible at print sizes anyway. \r\n\r\n(By the way, for a soft-cornered typeface,
    I must say this is starting to look pretty violent. Must be Hrant's influence.
    That 'j' (slightly modified now) is a scythe, the question mark a sickle, and
    'e' reminds me of some kind of blade my father, the luthier, uses for scraping
    the inside of a carved-top string instrument.) \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_4_6564.png]\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing I'd like to ask you: What adjective(s) would you use to decribe this typeface?
    I really should be thinking of a name soon ... "
  created: '2011-04-25 20:18:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "alive, assured, assuring, authentic, comfortable, generous, literary, old-school,
    philosophical, respectful, tenor-voiced, warm, well-read...\r\n\r\n(Violence certainly
    isn't dominant in the adjectives that occur to me!)"
  created: '2011-04-25 20:35:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I don't know if it's because of the tools you mentioned above, Sindre, or
    whether I would have thought this anyway, but this definitely looks crafted by
    tools, sort of carved from wood, with the notches and organic swellings. I personally
    find the image of traditional Norwegian boats very evocative...perhaps there's
    a name somewhere in that tradition?
  created: '2011-04-25 20:55:54'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "Maybe <strong>Nordland</strong> or <strong>Ballast</strong> for a name?  \r\n\r\nLove
    both of those words, and are both nautical terms."
  created: '2011-04-25 21:38:46'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Ah! But of course! Why didn't I think of that! That tradition (being older
    than recorded history) has a load of arcane terminology, with countless dialect
    variations. There's bound to be a name there. I'll pull out my books tonight.
    \r\n\r\nI'm almost humbled by the adjectives you chose to describe my typeface,
    Craig. I can only say thank you. Those words certainly renew my inspiration.  \r\n
    \r\nTrevor, Nordland is a bit too generic, I'm afraid. It's the name of the second
    largest county, and in Norwegian the name doesn't imply anything marine without
    -b\xE5t attached to it. Besides, my ancestral farm Bremnes is in Troms, which
    is the neighbouring county. My ancestors would rotate in their graves. \"Ballast\"
    would possibly be more suitable for a heavy sans serif, but still of utmost importance
    in those boats we're talking about. The [[http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0b/Seilende_nordlandsb%C3%A5ter.JPG|large
    ones]] have up to two tons of round stones in them. It would be a nice double
    entendre, though. I'll consider it, really."
  created: '2011-04-25 22:18:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I must say this is starting to look pretty violent. Must be Hrant's influence.
    \r\n\r\nAwwwww.  ;-)\r\n\r\nName: something ancient but puerile. \"Satyr\". As
    an antidote to Centaur.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-25 23:23:27'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Dear friends, meet Satyr. Thank you, Hrant, that name is perfect. The sound
    of it and the look of it. (Though perhaps not to the same extent some of its connotations,
    at least not to the early Greek satyrs, as they were ugly, old, sex-crazed men
    with horse tails. In late Antiquity, they became much nicer and better looking,
    though.) Actually, I wanted to give an earlier old style attempt the similar sounding
    (but unrelated) name Saturn, but found out that was taken by some Eurostile copy.
    Also, my old nom de plume as a [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Causerie|causerie
    writer]] (and my earlier user name here on Typophile) was Satyagraha. Though yet
    again unrelated, I chose it for its sound and my associations to it (and literal
    meaning) rather than its political meaning. (Though I am indeed a fan of Gandhi's
    methods (and of Sanskrit, possibly the most beautiful of all the recorded Indo-European
    languages, especially in its earliest stage)).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_5_6001.png]\r\n\r\nI
    still think your idea was brilliant, Ben, and will definitely use it for future
    projects. "
  created: '2011-04-26 14:04:06'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>As an antidote to Centaur</blockquote>\r\n \r\nI like that!\r\n\r\nIf
    you went with the French, Satyre, you could get that cool /e/ in there...\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-26 14:19:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Glad you liked it! Just so you know though, at least in the\r\nUS most people
    <em>will</em> be thinking of the hairy, h0rny guys...\r\nBut they <em>did</em>
    play an instrument! Or two...  :-)\r\n\r\nTo me it works because it's a dark,
    old, unpredictable thing.\r\nBut adding the \"e\" might be a good idea (unless
    you mind the\r\nprobable \"satire\" pronunciation).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-26 18:13:37'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wonderful. I'm now visualising mischievous flute-playing forest spirits, and
    I'm happy with that :)
  created: '2011-04-26 18:42:20'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "Now that is a good looking typeface!\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-26 19:19:48'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you, Brett.\r\n\r\nRedrawn numerals. I've tried to continue the turning
    contrast in as many of them as possible. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_6_6316.png]"
  created: '2011-04-28 14:16:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like most of them. The \"3\" is fine - maybe slightly plain. The \"4\"
    rules. The \"6\" and \"9\" are definitely a bit plain, and the \"8\" is way too
    regular and clean.\r\n\r\nThe zero: although I'm aware of the need to pull it
    away from the lc \"oh\", I've never grasped the benefit of the extreme monoline
    form. Flipping the contrast is one of the two tricks I'd recommend (especially
    when you consider that many numerals have flipped contrast anyway). The other
    is making only the left or right curve thick.\r\n\r\nBTW, it looks like the \"1\"
    is heavy and the \"5\" is light.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-28 14:47:08'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That zero does have a bit of flipped contrast. I think maybe that along with
    the widening of it may be too much -- looks like a conventional zero that has
    fallen over -- but a more circular form I think could work.\r\n\r\nDid you consider
    making the intersection of /6/ and /9/ rhyme with that crazy stuff in your /a/
    and /e/ joins? It seems like a somewhat analogous structure. "
  created: '2011-04-28 17:50:17'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: The zero looks far too geometric, and the 8 should look more like the 3. Nice
    start, though!
  created: '2011-04-28 18:02:16'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you.\r\n\r\nThat last update was a little uninspired and lazy. This
    is much better, though perhaps a little ovedone? Unsure about 69. \r\n\r\nAbout
    the zero: I really like the one thick side-zero (and have used it before), but
    I don't think it suits this typeface, it looks just too 1800. So here's a reversed
    and slightly rotated-zero.   \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_7_6680.png]"
  created: '2011-04-29 09:49:52'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I'm afraid the zero now looks even more "fallen over"...
  created: '2011-04-29 12:05:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm afraid I agree. But the others are pretty nice.
  created: '2011-04-29 12:46:21'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: The 6, 9 (too boxy), and 0 (looks glaringly sideways) still need work. Everything
    else looks good though!
  created: '2011-04-29 17:37:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like all of them. But maybe people are right about the zero.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    consider making the \"2\" ascend (especially with the current millennium and all).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-29 17:55:50'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh. Man. I only just spotted this. Just wanted to say it's love at first
    sight, and my hat's firmly off to you Sindre. Going to go study the details\u2026"
  created: '2011-05-03 12:19:26'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Thank you very much, Nina. Good to see you. \r\n\r\nBeen working on the italic
    lately, but now it's back to the roman. Here are some revised figures, lining
    and old style. Any thoughts highly appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Screenshot_8_4219.png]"
  created: '2011-05-03 14:52:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The lining zero, thanks to its narrowness, doesn't usually need a funky weight
    distribution to work. Especially if you go for \"3/4\" lining numerals (something
    I personally like).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-03 14:56:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Looking good. I like the "slightly kinky" eight!
  created: '2011-05-03 15:18:08'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: This is a very nice face and I can see it used in magazines. The only character
    I don't like is lowercase g I prefer a closed bowl  but its just my personal opinion
    and being a tad conservative I prefer the last closed question mark
  created: '2011-05-03 17:00:03'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Have a look at the height of the lining seven!
  created: '2011-05-03 17:14:46'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "I think your \"4\" is extreme. Eventually you could minimize your curve ratio
    a bit.\r\nFor comparision the \"4\" of Relato with a more subtle curve ratio:
    \r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/emtype/relato/"
  created: '2011-05-03 20:48:14'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">I think your \"4\" is extreme.\r\n\r\nThat's kind of the point, no? For
    me this is a book face, where due to their scarcity, numerals can afford to have
    a lot of character. I would, however, suggest something with the lining 4 to make
    it more \xABcapsy\xBB. (A foot serif for example.)\r\n\r\nI'd say the lining 1
    needs bigger feet, and the lining 2 to make the left side of the baseline join
    lower. I also think the lining figs need a bit of height normalisation. To me
    the 8 appears small.\r\n\r\nBeautiful work, Sindre. I'm very much taking my hats
    off too, all of them."
  created: '2011-05-03 21:16:48'
- author:
    name: mikeklaas
  body: "Looking absolutely delicious.  The 4 and old-style 2 are marvels.\r\n\r\nDo
    you happen to be looking for beta-testers?  I'd love to see how it renders in
    text sizes on an iPad."
  created: '2011-05-04 03:49:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-05-04 04:28:24'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "@Bendy\r\n>For me this is a book face, where due to their scarcity, numerals
    can afford to have a lot of character.\r\n\r\nCheck \"\u2026 1944 \u2026\" for
    example. Isn't it too overwhelming? Okay, Sindre knows what to do, or not. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n."
  created: '2011-05-04 09:37:48'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "I think you might've just made the typeface I was looking for!\r\nBeautiful
    work!"
  created: '2011-05-04 09:59:55'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Wow, I'm overwhelmed by the number of comments after my last update. Thank
    you very much, everyone. \r\n\r\nAbout the '4': Yes, it is extreme. But keep in
    mind that this font is intended for 10 points. This typeface will have true optical
    sizes (not just text and display, but korpus (10 pt), cicero (12), mittel (14),
    tekst (20), kanon (36). I'd really like to use those traditional names, by the
    way, but that's something to decide much later), and the larger the size, the
    more refined and less boxy everything will be (and the curves shallower). I doubt
    the curve of '4' will scream excess! at 10 points. But yes, I know what to do,
    and that is thorough testing. For practical reasons, I must do all testing on
    paper later in the process. \r\n\r\nIt seems my '4' (and to some extent the 'g')
    is a love it or loathe it-glyph. That tells me I'm doing things right.\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing: I begun drawing this typeface as a self-educational, strictly non-commercial
    one (I'm just a hobbyist), and won't think much about saleability during the drawing
    process. That may change, though. \r\n\r\nNo time for updates today, but stay
    tuned."
  created: '2011-05-04 10:53:49'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: no hope of you having a closed bowl on the /g/
  created: '2011-05-04 13:20:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me making the bowl open isn't mainly a stylistic decision - it comes from
    the belief that the closed bowl is unnatural and can even sometimes cause a hiccup
    in reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 14:40:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@hrant: Regarding the open vs closed /g/. An interesting point. Do you have
    a primary source or reference for this? There is the potential for a very simple
    study here.'
  created: '2011-05-04 15:34:23'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>the belief that the closed bowl is unnatural</blockquote>\r\n\r\n
    The whole damn lowercase g is unnatural, I believe! :-)"
  created: '2011-05-04 16:04:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Hrant: Every open bowl g I''ve ever seen has caused a hiccup for me, and
    I''m talking about text - not display.'
  created: '2011-05-04 17:59:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The whole damn lowercase g is unnatural\r\n\r\nOr maybe it just needs more
    complex friends.\r\nIn Armenian for example we have half a dozen\r\ncharacters
    of that complexity so none of them\r\nfeel lonely.  :-)\r\n\r\n> Every open bowl
    g I've ever seen has caused a hiccup for me\r\n\r\nMaybe because you're too type-aware?
    We know\r\nthat type designers can't really read anymore.  ;-)\r\n\r\nAnyway I
    certainly agree that virtually all\r\nopen \"g\"s are poorly designed - because
    it's\r\na rare form it's harder to pull it off; the\r\nclosed form being established
    is easier\r\nto get away with making it poorly.\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n- The hiccup I
    believe can happen with the\r\nclosed form is especially when \"g\" is doubled:\r\nthe
    peculiar pattern repeated can be jarring.\r\n- Have you read anything set in Patria?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 18:34:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>The whole damn lowercase g is unnatural</cite>\r\n\r\nHear, hear!"
  created: '2011-05-04 19:45:37'
- author:
    name: mikeklaas
  body: "HF&J's new release Ideal Sans is similar to Satyr in its absence of straight
    edges (the end result is quite different, of course!)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/fonts/font_overview.php?productLineID=100042"
  created: '2011-05-04 21:13:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'I think Satyr is on track. Two g''s: Definitely! Both "gg" and "gj" are common
    pairs in Norwegian and often troublesome. Patria: No, not yet. Where can I see
    it?'
  created: '2011-05-04 22:58:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nina has set a few books in it* but I think they're all in German. Do you
    have #13 of Typo magazine? My article in that issue was set in Patria. There are
    a few other things (including a previous issue of a provincial newspaper) but
    nothing highly accessible. Maybe I should send you a PDF? If so please email me
    (no pressure) at hpapazian at gmail dot com.\r\n\r\n* Example: http://www.ninastoessinger.com/?l=e&s=typography\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 23:56:04'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Oh, yes my Patria books (3 so far) are all in German.\r\nDrop me a line if
    you'd like to have a look, Frode."
  created: '2011-05-06 07:47:10'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Satyr: great name. Earlier on someone was saying the caps were tame in relation
    to the lowercase. It reminded me that Octavian is a typeface where the caps are
    wide \u2013 being based on inscriptional lettering \u2013 and that the narrow
    lowercase has a different feel."
  created: '2011-05-07 13:45:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's a necessary paradox that the caps are essentially a different alphabet,
    and there's a severe limit to how much they can match the -more important- lowercase.
    We have to allow each case to be itself, as awkward as that might feel.\r\n\r\nON
    THE OTHER HAND... :-)  I've always thought there <em>might</em> be a way to makes
    things really click between the two cases, specifically by leveraging uncial forms...
    Where's Victor Hammer when you need him!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 18:26:47'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Differentiating the cases has become a very conscious decision in the making
    of this design, I've actually exaggerated the differences, the serif treatment
    are different, the upper case has none of the lower case contrast weirdness. \r\n\r\nAbout
    my open g: It stays that way. I've come to think that the s and g, the two loners
    of the lower case, should resemble one another. That solves a lot of problems,
    and looks pretty. Harder to read? Not if you're used to it, no way. I think reading
    Fraktur is frustratingly time-consuming (and my mind often refuses to accept that
    the \"k\" is not a \"t\"), but I'm one hundred per cent certain no-one thought
    so 150 years ago.\r\n\r\nI'm working on the spacing now, and will post a new pdf
    with Latin Extended-A support and small caps in a few days. "
  created: '2011-05-07 21:29:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>s and g, the two loners of the lower case, should resemble one another</cite>\r\nSomeone
    in Ireland some time ago should have thought the same ;-)"
  created: '2011-05-07 23:44:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the s and g, the two loners of the lower case, should resemble one another.\r\n\r\nExactly!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 23:49:48'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "I have nothing against them resembling one another sure don't they have the
    same parents.\r\nDo you know the typeface Brighton have a look at the g in that.
    Now there's a g that resembles the s"
  created: '2011-05-08 00:20:28'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "Italics. See pdf. Can an italic meant for text sizes have such a deranged
    'X'?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/satyr_italick_5029.jpg]"
  created: '2011-07-09 14:38:12'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: After being advised to do so, I have decided to make a new thread for Satyr
    Italic, the length of this thread makes it too impractical. So please, write any
    critique [[http://typophile.com/node/83628|here]].
  created: '2011-07-09 17:50:04'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I was just wondering if this would see action again!\r\n\r\nLove the descenders
    of /p/q/.\r\n\r\nThat thickening at the joins works wonderfully at the bottom
    of /V/W/! /v/ is fantastic.\r\n\r\nI wonder if top terminal of /s/ could be a
    touch less soft (maybe look to /f/ for a model).\r\n\r\nI don't like the /h/m/n/.\r\n\r\n/K/'s
    arm seems a little weak - is it stretching too far over, or does it need a little
    more black?\r\n\r\nThe /Z/, which seems to switch contrast strategy midgame, is
    no less daring than the /X/. Give us some words with those glyphs to judge.\r\n\r\nQuestion
    mark seems too soft. At-sign may be too generic--could some contrast or quirkiness
    be introduced into its loop?\r\n\r\n/A/ crossbar seems too high to me still."
  created: '2011-07-09 18:35:09'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: "And finally, today Satyr is released on Monokrom Type Foundry, founded by
    Frode Bo Helland and myself.\r\n\r\nThank you so much for all your help and support!
    \r\n\r\nhttps://monokrom.no/fonts/satyr\r\nhttps://monokrom.no/\r\nhttp://www.facebook.com/Monokromfonts\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 12:02:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So satisfying to see this come out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-05 14:31:37'
date: '2011-04-12 22:37:22'
files:
- filename: spec1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/spec1.pdf
- filename: text1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/text1.pdf
- filename: revidert.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/revidert.pdf
- filename: pangrams.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pangrams.pdf
- filename: Screenshot_4.png
  uri: public://old-images/Screenshot_4.png
- filename: satyr_italick.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/satyr_italick.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Satyr: No straight lines'

---
