---
author:
  name: skald89
body: "<strong>You do not have to do any research.</strong>\r\nI am doing a project
  for school and if it works out the way I want, I will need people's opinions and
  knowledge on teen pregnancy. The survey is to find out how much people know and
  what they think, not to find the actual facts. I posted the survey on monkeysurvey.com.
  its only 10 questions shouldnt take more than 1-2 minutes. I know I cant stop you,
  but please if you do take it don't just randomly click answers.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/B3TS9H6\">survey</a>\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance if you do take it. \r\n\r\nIf anyone is interested I made a short video
  with some of the facts. \r\n<a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Ip-srLmK0g\">Video</a>\r\n\r\nAlso
  is there a way to delete this thread?"
comments:
- author:
    name: jwchen
    picture: 116597
  body: WTH? first non-profit puritan extremist, now this?
  created: '2011-04-15 04:43:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It could be part of an information design project, I suppose.
  created: '2011-04-15 04:58:29'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'Do you really think anyone on Typophile is qualified to opine about anything
    involving teenage sex? '
  created: '2011-04-15 05:32:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mother_3422.jpg]'
  created: '2011-04-15 06:39:26'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "What do you mean, \"now this?\" It exists out there already its not like
    the survey is changing or creating their existence in the world. \r\nYes this
    part of an information design project.\r\nEveryone is qualified to answer.Youre
    telling me people on Typophile cant think or have an opinion?"
  created: '2011-04-15 14:35:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "skald89, I started taking your survey, but stopped because question #2 (main
    reason for teen pregnancy) left out a number of reasons cited by some experts;
    #4 also leaves out some commonly-cited reasons; and most of your questions don't
    have a \"don't know\" option\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-15 15:29:44'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/modreibonn_3975.jpg]'
  created: '2011-04-15 15:48:37'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: 'I don''t want a "I dont know" on purpose because I want people to choose
    what they THINK is the right answer. #2 and #4 the answers that SOME experts say,
    what are the choices?'
  created: '2011-04-15 16:44:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Why pick on teens?\r\nTeen pregnancy is perfectly natural, and healthier
    than later.\r\nMore problematic:\r\nHow about a survey on 40+ pregnancy?\r\nIn
    vitro?\r\nSenior hysterectomies?\r\nThat's my opinion on your survey.\r\nNothing
    like framing an issue by aggregating answers to leading questions, from people
    with a subjective opinion on something they haven't studied and know very little
    about.\r\nNo I'm not naive: I haven't looked at the survey, but I suspect it is
    really about teenagers having sex out of wedlock and abortion.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-15 17:17:02'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: 'Yeah, that''s the basic idea of the survey. I''m suppose to pick something
    I feel is important as my project and this I feel is more important the 40+ pregnancy. '
  created: '2011-04-15 17:31:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Then why not call it what it is, a teen abortion survey?
  created: '2011-04-15 18:20:30'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: 'The only mention about abortion in the survey is one question''s answer.
    No, that would not be a good title for the survey. '
  created: '2011-04-15 20:14:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK, sorry, but now I had a look at the survey, and as suspected the general
    presumption is that there is something wrong with teenage pregnancy. Don't you
    think that's rather prejudiced against young couples under 20 who start a family?
    it's tough enough for them anyway, without this stigma. \"Teen Pregnancy\" is
    a loaded concept, encompassing as it does 13-yr olds.\r\n\r\nTeenage pregnancy
    is a worthwhile social goal, rather than the present trend in society, which is
    towards more Middle-age Pregnancy. A woman is most fertile at 18, and pregnancy
    complications increase significantly after age 35.\r\n\r\nOf course, the way things
    are at the moment, there are all kinds of impediments to early pregnancy, most
    notably the impact it has on a woman's career.\r\n\r\nWhy not call the survey
    \"High School Pregnancy\"?\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-15 21:22:44'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: ".. And the underlying reason to bring this survey under the attention of
    Typophile was:\r\n\r\n(a) Typophile's demographics show a large part of font designers
    is teen, pregnant, or both\r\n\r\n(b) Surveymonkey uses a very interesting font
    on its web site\r\n\r\n(c) You are of Eastern European origin and trying to lure
    as much clicks possible to the website which is hiding under the well-known brand
    name <a name=\"http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2005/02/unicode_url_hac_1.html\">\"survey\u043C\u043E\u043F\u043A\u0435\u0443\"</a>\r\n\r\n--
    oh what the hell, let's add this one just for the heck of it.\r\n\r\n(d) I Honestly
    Don't Have A Clue and Don't Really Care As Well.\r\n\r\nPlease pick one."
  created: '2011-04-15 22:46:43'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "B is the best answer.\r\n\r\nThe real answer, need people to fill it out
    and its design related. "
  created: '2011-04-15 22:57:01'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: "I like that M\xF8dre I B\xF8nn frank posted."
  created: '2011-04-16 15:15:17'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: My Herb Lubalin homage.
  created: '2011-04-16 18:04:45'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/teen-pregnancy_6722.png]'
  created: '2011-04-18 00:24:48'
- author:
    name: Sulekha Rajkumar
  body: Hey skald89. I think you should be smart about the wonderful advantage typophile
    gives to young designers, which is design critique. I'd suggest you stop asking
    us about teenage pregnancy, get on with your survey on FB or other social forums
    if you may. Then work on your infographic and post it here and request the people
    for opinions on what they know best. Type and design.
  created: '2011-04-18 09:26:41'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: While an interesting and important subject, teenage pregnancy is not a subject
    which is related to type or type design or type criticism, or anything in fact
    to do with type. So I'm not sure why it is here. I could post a lot of subjects
    here which have nothing to do with the forum and so could everyone else.
  created: '2011-04-18 19:17:33'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Your survey is full of suggestive questions, limited answer-sets, and radical
    ideology.\r\n\r\nI am sure that you will gain no insight what so ever. Even if
    you do not aim on that, and just want to use it for ideology purposes, the questionary
    is so obviously flawed, that it will only backfire.\r\n\r\nI don't think, I really
    could make you understand, but... forget for a moment everything what you thought
    to be true. Look at some facts.\r\n\r\nThis is [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Map-world-teenage-biological-mothers2002.svg|a
    world map for teenage pregnancy]]. It clearly shows the US has a significant higher
    percentage than other developed countries. \r\n\r\nWhat could the reason for that
    be? \r\nTeenage pregnancy is a problem of information and education that sex is
    ok, if one has respect for oneself and for the other. Teenagers are way more capable
    of making responsible decisions, than one might think. This kind of eduction would
    not be primarily focused on STDs and abstinence, just to scare teens off, like
    it happens in places in the US.\r\n\r\nThe norms of a society majorly influence
    teenage pregnancy. \r\n\r\nCompare the high values of teen pregnancy with high
    age of consent by law in the US and in [[http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Age_of_Consent.png|northern
    and western European countries]]. There is a negative correlation. Why? because
    law is just the normative formulation of the moral values of a society. Compare
    as well for example with this [[http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Atheists_Agnostics_Zuckerman_en.svg|map
    about atheists]].\r\n\r\nAnother part of the story is of course economically as
    well. To highlight this one could take a look at this map of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Gini_Coefficient_World_CIA_Report_2009.png|global
    inequality of wealth per country. low value is a more equal society.]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-18 19:19:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "flooce: <em>Compare the high values of teen pregnancy with high age of consent
    by law in the US and in northern and western European countries. There is a negative
    correlation. Why? because law is just the normative formulation of the moral values
    of a society.</em>\r\n\r\nThe law is a formulation of one set of moral values
    within a society. The sexualisation of children in advertising and pornographication
    of sexuality in popular culture demonstrates the active moral values of North
    American society at large, and has a much more direct impact on the attitude and
    behaviour of teenagers than either laws or sex education programmes. In most other
    parts of the world, traditional cultural moral values tend to be less eroded by
    free market capitalism than they are in North America -- although constantly under
    assault --, and sexualised advertising, music and film is not considered acceptable.
    The perverse approach to sex education in the USA is a desperate counter-guard
    fight against the prevailing social mores, ironically enacted by the same politicians
    who committed the country to the neo-con radical free market agenda that always
    and everywhere erodes the traditional values they try to prop up by legislative
    means."
  created: '2011-04-18 19:52:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "(Not typography, but concerning infographics:)\r\n\r\n<em>This is a world
    map for teenage pregnancy. It clearly shows the US has a significant higher percentage
    than other developed countries.</em>\r\n\r\nNo it doesn't, because it's a map
    for live births.\r\nPerhaps the US would be closer to other developed countries
    if abortions were easier to get there.\r\n\r\nAlso, the map doesn't show the average
    age of (mothers who give) live births.\r\nI wonder how different that would be.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-18 20:41:03'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "See what I don't understand is if this is for school, why not advertise this
    survey to people in school?  If you do it here, majority of the members on this
    website are well beyond their teen years.\r\n\r\nLogically it seems more reasonable
    to do this at school where there are plenty of teens, and even some that have
    probably dealt with teenage pregnancy.\r\n\r\nBetter yet, Facebook it up!  Then
    your close friends can do it! Haza!"
  created: '2011-04-19 03:19:25'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Nick:\r\n<cite>Perhaps the US would be closer to other developed countries
    if abortions were easier to get there.</cite>\r\n\r\nAccording to WHO data, there
    are 21 abortions per 1000 women per year in the USA and 12 in Western Europe.
    I don't remember which year. [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/11/AR2011011107331.html|Washington
    Post]] reports the rate as 19\r\n\r\nThat does not really answer the full complexity
    of your question, though. "
  created: '2011-04-19 11:28:26'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "Isnt this the \"General Discussions Anything goes.\" section?\r\nThis isn't
    completely unrelated to design. \r\n\r\nSurvey has been updated \r\n<a href=\"http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/B3TS9H6\">
    updated survey</a>"
  created: '2011-05-02 17:21:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This has nothing to do with type, but since it's come up: the prospects for
    children born to unwed young women who never marry the father are disastrous as
    far as the percentages who end up in poverty, in jail, on welfare, with low academic
    achievement, with mental health problems, and so on. \r\n\r\nPhysically, it is
    true that young women have a health advantage in bearing children. But the social
    costs in urban societies around the world are extremely high, for the mother and
    even more for the child. \r\n\r\nThese grave personal and social problems are
    not puritanism, but reality.  \r\n"
  created: '2011-05-02 18:25:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, note that Nick was talking about teenage pregnancy and motherhood,
    not necessarily <em>unmarried</em> pregnancy and motherhood.\r\n\r\n<em>Physically,
    it is true that young women have a health advantage in bearing children. But the
    social costs in urban societies around the world are extremely high, for the mother
    and even more for the child.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich strongly suggests that there is
    something seriously wrong with those societies."
  created: '2011-05-03 18:38:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, in our society, teen marriage is extremely rare, so that unmarried
    teen pregnancy is the rule. I agree with you that this is a huge problem, but
    the solution is alas not easy. Statistically, the chances of a marriage lasting
    increase up to age 26 for the age of marriage. The prospects are poor for teen
    marriages, which isn''t to say they shouldn''t happen. '
  created: '2011-05-03 19:13:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the prospects for children born to unwed young \r\n> women who never marry
    the father are disastrous \r\n> as far as the percentages who end up in poverty,
    \r\n> in jail, on welfare...\r\n\r\nYes, unfortunately the statistics show that's
    very true. The children often grow up in poverty (or at least in financial difficulty),
    if the mother works outside the home they are often raised largely by a grandmother
    or other relative, and they often grow up with no father figure. I personally
    know several families in this situation."
  created: '2011-05-03 21:38:43'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Your 4th question is just plain weird since it omits all of the rather obvious
    main reasons why teens have sex such as biological drives and hormones.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-05-04 00:27:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>(a) Typophile's demographics show a large part of font designers
    is teen, pregnant, or both</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nSource?"
  created: '2011-05-04 04:47:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@skald89: I do not understand your purpose. Are you looking for data? Advice
    on your experimental design, a better font to use\u2026 As it stands I'm not quite
    sure I see Typophile as the best place to be polling for information on teen pregnancy,
    regardless what your demographic data tells you. I suggest you revesit your population
    selection methodology. If you are doing this at a university you should have access
    to a subject pool. I have a chapter in an intro psych text that deals with questionnaire
    design. I\u2019ll see if I can dig it up tomorrow."
  created: '2011-05-04 04:55:28'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Christopher, it was a list for skald89 to choose from. I'm as puzzled as
    you are by his insistance it's relevant to typography.\r\n\r\nskald89: <em>Isnt
    this the \"General Discussions Anything goes.\" section?</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, well,
    there is a practical limit though. Perhaps the phrase could be changed to \"Anything
    <em>on type</em> goes\".\r\n\r\nskald89: <em>This isn't completely unrelated to
    design.</em>\r\n\r\nThat'd only be true if you were discussing the design."
  created: '2011-05-04 09:21:55'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "Theunis de Jong \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/79829\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81708\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81687\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81709\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/123\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/41104\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand how typophile is a bad place to get responses? It isn't my main
    source and the members do have brains and can take a survey. It is design related,
    it isn't a design that I'm asking for criticism on. Its part of the process of
    creating the design just like finding the right type face is part of the process.
    If it was a regular survey completely unrelated to design I would not have posted
    it here, it really does not belong on typophile."
  created: '2011-05-05 03:48:14'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: I think what the general concensus regarding this topic is that it is just
    a weird survey to be posting on a forum dedicated to people who are addicted/passionate
    about typography.  If this was Nexopia or a Cosmopolitan, there might be some
    merit to this survey, but such isn't the case.
  created: '2011-05-05 04:40:58'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: I understand that the survey is a little odd. Its the project I am working
    on and its a design project which led me to see if typophile has a section I could
    post it in.
  created: '2011-05-05 08:39:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C\u2026<em>and its a design project</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nI still
    think I am missing something. How exactly is this project related to design?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    we are using the same word to mean two different things?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_of_experiments\"><strong>Experimental</strong>
    design</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graphic_design\"><strong>Graphic</strong>
    design</a>\r\n\r\nFor what school and course is this project?"
  created: '2011-05-05 20:16:39'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: Someone else has asked the same question. It is an information design project.
    Now let me ask people a question. For the most part people who have posted a response
    in this read has spent a minute typing and coming up with something to say to
    me for making this post. Wouldn't have been simpler to either mod alert the post
    or spend the minute helping me and taking the survey? (not trying to be a jerk,
    simply asking a question)
  created: '2011-05-06 04:41:02'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Gathering information is not 'information design'. \r\n\r\nOnce you get your
    information, THEN come back and we can help you present it in a visual manner.\r\n\r\nUntil
    then, maybe don't annoy the natives. It'll make it easier for you to get real
    design advice when you need it. "
  created: '2011-05-06 06:40:14'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> Wouldn't [it] have been simpler to...spend the minute helping me and
    taking the survey? </cite>\r\n\r\nWell, my rationale for not taking the survey
    wasn't because it is off topic (though it is), but rather because the survey itself
    is rather poorly designed. Your questions involve tacit presuppositions which
    force the taker to choose between a variety of incorrect and potentially misleading
    answers.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 15:17:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: skald89, as I mentioned in an earlier post, I did start taking your survey,
    but stopped because the survey was not constructed well. You didn't clearly differentiate
    between married and unmarried teens, you left out some common answers that many
    folks would have chosen if available, etc.  I felt that if I finished your survey
    the results would be misleading.
  created: '2011-05-06 15:37:12'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: '[deleted; I figured out the answer to the question I asked]'
  created: '2011-05-06 19:52:23'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "Im limited to how specific I can be in my questions because I am unpaid member.
    I have updated it to reflect my data and a lot of the information that I have
    found does not differentiate between married and unmarried teens. I have also
    added a text box if people want to add comments to their answers.\r\n\r\nNew survey
    I said I have posted\r\nhttp://www.surveymonkey.com/s/B3TS9H6\r\n\r\nFor a couple
    of the questions I did not do the full research:\r\n\"5. The 2 top prevention
    methods are?\"\r\n\"7. Teen Pregnancy is most common in the US with\"\r\n\r\n@aluminum
    \r\n\"Gathering information is not 'information design'.\r\nOnce you get your
    information, THEN come back and we can help you present it in a visual manner.\r\nUntil
    then, maybe don't annoy the natives. It'll make it easier for you to get real
    design advice when you need it.\"\r\nI was not saying it 'information design,'
    I was answering someone as how it is design related. In an information design
    project I don't see how the research part is really different than picking a font.
    They both are a form of research for the design at hand. Yes, maybe if I put this
    in the critic forum or type id I would understand the whole this is not in the
    right place, but it clearly states \"General Discussions Anything goes\" which
    is why I felt I can post this with out breaking any rules. \r\n\r\nI'm sorry for
    creating my post.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 19:53:38'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Your findings will be flawed by design, you will only get the answers you
    want to hear, which will echo your ideology. You don't know anything about social
    research. \r\n\r\nGo to the library, read a book on quantitative interviews. Start
    over. \r\n\r\nThe way it is now many will not answer the questionnaire. "
  created: '2011-05-06 19:58:22'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: 'I didn''t choose the answers my self though. All my answers are from sources
    I have found. '
  created: '2011-05-06 19:59:56'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Just pick one of them. Any, really\r\n\r\n[[http://www.google.com/search?tbm=bks&tbo=1&q=quantitative+interviewing&btnG=Search+Books#hl=en&ds=bo&sugexp=ldymls&pq=quantitative%20interviews&xhr=t&q=social+quantitative+research&cp=7&pf=p&sclient=psy&tbo=1&tbm=bks&source=hp&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&oq=social+quantitative+research&pbx=1&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=718081433829be0c|http://www.google.com/search?tbm=bks&tbo=1&q=quantitative+interviewing...]]"
  created: '2011-05-06 20:12:18'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "Flooce:\r\nI will be honest, thanks for trying to help me. Its finals weeks
    for me and I also have  a list of books I need to read, so I wont be able to read
    any of those books by the time I hand in this project. Would you be able to pick
    one of my questions and tell me why its wrong and why you're recommending these
    books?"
  created: '2011-05-06 20:35:39'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> Im limited to how specific I can be in my questions because I am unpaid
    member. </cite>\r\n\r\nYour initial post suggested this was for a school project,
    but now it sounds like you're doing this for an organization of some sort. Which
    organization would that be?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-05-06 21:12:37'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I assume your attempt is sincere and I actually don't mind a completely different
    opinion, as long as the research that forms that opinion follows some rules of
    deduction. My problem is, that your attempt to research fails any criteria that
    would be somehow scientific. \r\n\r\nI send you some articles of scientific journals
    on the topic, you can do your own research if you want to. If previous research
    would answer the current research question, then the current research question
    would not be necessary. Previews findings are important to understand a topic
    and to know which questions one need to ask in the first place to get new information.
    \r\n\r\nThese four papers are highly relevant, as they will show important factors
    of teenage pregnancy in western industrialized societies. They help you to establish
    which factors that can influence an outcome are constant throughout the research
    and which do variable. With this information you can ask yourself why is your
    case different? What is the same and what is different in your case, than in other
    cases? There lies the key to the question about what ever you want to find out.
    As you can not experiment with society at large, you can only compare and try
    eliminate factors that do not have an influence. \r\n\r\nThese papers as I said
    will help you to design the questionnaire in a better way. \r\n\r\nTo your questionnaire,
    if you want to discuss it here, we can, but the content should rather be discussed
    in a social science related environment, rather than a graphic design. \r\n\r\nif
    you want me to really help me, then you can write what you actually want to find
    out with each question, which information do you want to get from your sample
    of interviewees?\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 21:27:01'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "agisaak :\r\nUnpaid member on surveymonkey.com where I made the survey. "
  created: '2011-05-06 21:59:19'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: '10 questions are certainly a limitation, however one can work around that
    with a good questionnaire. If it becomes too long, it will be much harder to compute
    the results. '
  created: '2011-05-06 23:04:08'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "The  main things I want to know are what people know/think are the right
    answers to:\r\n1 - estimated teen pregnancies from 05-09 in the US\r\n2 - estimated
    teen abortions from 05-09 in the US\r\n3 - why teens have sex and become pregnant
    in the US\r\n4 - Which 3 states have the most teen pregnancies\r\n5 - How teen
    pregnancy can be prevented\r\n6 - If teen pregnancy is a burden on the US economy\r\n7
    - The age and gender of the people answering\r\n\r\nI know the facts from my research.
    I am not using the survey to find out how many teen pregnancies and abortions
    exist, it is to find out the world's knowledge to show if they do or don't know
    the facts. "
  created: '2011-05-06 23:32:08'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: '90% of the people on this forum are guys, your stats are going to be horribly
    inaccurate. '
  created: '2011-05-07 07:03:42'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "You mix up a lot in your questionnaire, if you just want to test knowledge.
    I would as well check the source of your facts, if this is based on solid science.
    \r\n\r\nExample: The Q2 and many of its answers confuse pregnancy with sex. This
    is ideologically laden. \r\n\r\nYou say you test knowledge, when you actually
    don't, you test opinions as well in Q3, Q4, Q7 (subjective, socially determined).
    Not only do you test opinions, when you think you test knowledge, but you have
    a very limited answer-set, which does in the understanding of some do not reflect
    the real causes or do not describe the issue correctly. \r\n\r\nThat is why I
    send you some papers, so you can think again if your \u201Cfacts\u201D actually
    mean anything. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 13:48:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It'll be completely pointless for me to take this survey. US pregnancy stats
    are so far away from any of my interests that they don't even register on long-range
    scanners.
  created: '2011-05-07 15:35:32'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "BrettR:\r\nHow can my stats be wrong because its all guys on here? The stats
    are suppose to show what people think/know are you implying guys are not people?\r\n\r\nT\xE9
    Rowan:\r\nYes, it may be completely pointless for you to take it because you gain
    nothing from it. Whether a person thinks about it or cares at all about the topic
    their answers will still be valid for my goal. \r\n\r\nflooce:\r\nYou can say
    my answers are very limited but that is the facts I found. I am not asking anyone
    to go and study up to find the answers. Its merely a test to see what the general
    public's knowledge is on the topic. If someone came around asking \"How many people
    do you think live in the US today? A B C D E F\" You only have 6 answers which
    you can argue is limited. The correct answer is amongst the six and you arent
    only given 2 choices which would make the results useless because its a 50/50
    chance of getting the right answer. \r\nI had questions I am answering in  my
    project and asked the same questions in my survey. In the survey I listed the
    answers I found in my research. I test opinions or knowledge whats the difference,
    when saying people think or say this when asked question A? The way people answer
    is based on their opinion which comes from their knowledge. None of my questions
    are \"whats your favorite ice cream flavor?\" Yes that is opinion and not fact.
    My questions are facts, you can have an opinion or think you know something but
    its not an opinion based question."
  created: '2011-05-08 03:06:26'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: skald89, since you disagree with many of the comments we've made about your
    survey, why don't you show the survey to your teacher and get their opinion on
    how it's written?
  created: '2011-05-08 03:43:51'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "JamesM:\r\nMy teacher knows I made the survey and I have posted it to our
    class blog like she told me to do. \r\nI hear people's comments and agree that
    my original survey is severely flawed. I just don't understand how the new one
    is or how asking my professor's opinion will make a difference on people's opinion
    on here. I asked the questions and supplied all the answers I found on reliable
    sources. What else is there to do? I didn't make up answers so I won't be getting
    answers I want to hear its facts and social misconceptions. I have 18 responses
    for my new survey and 72 for my original. If I don't get at least 50 responses
    to the new one I am going to leave the part of \"public's knowledge\" out of my
    design."
  created: '2011-05-08 05:38:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> My teacher knows I made the survey\r\n\r\nOkay but I was suggesting that
    you ask your teacher's opinion about the way the survey is written.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not trying to give you a hard time about this. Writing a proper survey is hard,
    especially when dealing with a controversial subject. I agree that you've made
    some improvements to it."
  created: '2011-05-08 06:26:12'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "JamesM:\r\nSorry, I should have been clearer in responding. She told me to
    put it up on the blog because its the way we communicate and she also said that
    the class and her should take the survey. \r\n\r\nI appreciate people trying to
    help me with the quality of the survey. I'm wondering do people know the actual
    answers or what the sources say, that everyone is saying my answers are limited?
    \r\nQuestions 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, and 9 how are they bad survey questions? \r\n\r\nI
    don't know anymore, to be honest I thought the survey was decent. I asked questions
    and gave the answers reliable sources(no articles and newspapers) supplied.\r\n\r\nThanks
    everyone for your inputs."
  created: '2011-05-08 12:57:38'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@skald89 - If I understood you correctly, your survey is testing people''s
    knowledge of pre-existing statistics. Well, I know sod all on this subject. Hence,
    <em>you</em> would gain nothing from my participation.'
  created: '2011-05-08 15:08:06'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I don't know what the actual hypothesis you are trying to investigate is,
    so some of my comments might be off base, but here are a few things for you to
    consider.\r\n\r\nWith respect to questions 2 and 3, I don't really see how people's
    responses here could possibly be interesting or informative. I can't figure out
    what type of investigation would actually care whether people know or don't know
    the specific numeric values which you give; I <em> can </em> see one trying to
    establish whether people's assessment of the prevalence of teen pregnancy is accurate,
    and whether their views on this matter correlate with attitudes towards teen pregnancy,
    but asking a question about raw numbers won't achieve this. Unless you have some
    way of establishing whether your respondents have a reasonably accurate view of
    the *size* of the relevant demographic, I don't see how you could possibly interpret
    their responses. Also, it's somewhat odd that in Q3 the entire range of 100 000\u2013200
    000 is omitted from your set of answers.\r\n\r\nAlso, bear in mind that when you
    start posting your survey on forums such as this one, you are appealing to an
    international audience. Most non-Americans have no real reason to know stats on
    teen pregnancy in the USA (you might perhaps want to reconsider some of T\xE9
    Rowan's comments in this light -- he's posting from Iceland).\r\n\r\nQuestion
    4 and 5, though, are where the real problems lie. In question (4) you ask for
    reasons why teens have sex, but some of your answers seem to be more appropriate
    for a question regarding why teens get pregnant. 'Rape' and 'Taught abstinence
    Only' do not make sense to me as reasons why people have sex, though they might
    be reasons why they get pregnant. 'Lack of Education' only makes sense as an answer
    to this question if you are making the implicit assumption that teen sex is somehow
    bad and that only those who don't know better would do it. I can't help wondering
    whether you haven't inadvertently conflated two different questions here.\r\n\r\nPutting
    that aside and assuming you really are asking about sex rather than pregnancy,
    your answer set is simply strange in terms of what it omits. Adults have sex for
    a wide variety of reasons including, among others, the fact that it is enjoyable,
    the fact that it can strengthen social bonds, and the simple fact that human beings
    have biological urges. Yet you omit all of these as possible answers suggesting
    that teens have sex for entirely different reasons than adults.\r\n\r\nNow it's
    possible that this is the case, and perhaps you do believe this, but if you want
    to make some claim regarding why teens have sex, you cannot build this assumption
    into your answer set. The majority of your answers seem to presuppose that teens
    don't have an inherent desire for sex, but rather have this imposed on them by
    outside factors. Once again, it is possible that this is the case (or is the case
    in some instances), but if you limit your answer set to possibilities which make
    this assumption you are not going to get meaningful results (and of course, even
    if you did include a wider range of possibilities, establishing why people *think*
    teens have sex cannot be used to argue for why teens *actually* have sex which
    is, most likely, fairly heterogeneous anyways).\r\n\r\nQuestion 5 is poorly constructed
    since it isn't clear whether you are talking about preventing teen pregnancy or
    preventing *unwanted* teen pregnance -- two entirely different issues. Also, given
    the weird blend of responses in question 4 which appear to conflate sex and pregnancy,
    I also find myself with a lingering worry that you are doing the same thing here
    and contemplating ways of preventing *sex* rather than pregnancy (at least for
    the answers 2, 3 and 5).\r\n\r\nAlso, use of contraceptives and abstinence fall
    into an entirely different category than education through parents, schools, or
    after-school programs. It's not clear that they really belong in the same answer
    set.\r\n\r\nMoreover, your educational options are overly vague. You give, for
    example, the possible answer 'parents talking to their kids'. Talking about what?
    Contraception? Eternal Damnation? These answers really should be made more precise
    or you will not have any way of determining exactly how your respondents were
    interpreting these.\r\n\r\nFinally, I think you'd get considerably better data
    if you asked about a more narrowly defined demographic than 'teen' -- after all,
    this would include middle schoolers, high schoolers, as well as many college freshmen
    and sophomores. I think you'll find that people's attitudes towards sex are *very*
    different for these three demographics.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-05-08 16:09:40'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: "Te Rowan:\r\nYes, your pre-existing knowledge.\r\nWhether you do or don't
    know a thing about the subject you fall under the category of the general public.
    What I am trying to achieve is finding out what the world thinks/knows. Thinking
    can be wrong and based on inaccurate information. \r\nThis is the basic idea of
    what I am trying to achieve. The design is just to portray my goal.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/my
    goal_4973.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-08 16:13:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "To delete a thread contact Tiffany Wardle aka Miss Tiffany and ask her to
    do it.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/108"
  created: '2011-05-17 14:49:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Skald89 is this part of an information design project\u2014as John suggested\u2014or
    design and typography in anyway? "
  created: '2011-05-17 15:36:43'
- author:
    name: skald89
  body: It was going to  be added to an info graphic pamphlet. Can it be deleted please?
  created: '2011-05-18 03:27:26'
date: '2011-04-15 04:23:56'
title: Teen Pregnancy survey

---
