---
author:
  name: Gary Lonergan
  picture: 112101
body: "One of the problems with designing a typeface is getting feedback. Most designers
  work in a vacuum and that's why a forum like this is so useful. \r\nI have started
  looking very critically at my half finished type projects and decided that my passion
  for Dutch typefaces could provide enough impetus to design a really nice text face.\r\n\r\nSo
  I looked at a lot of the typefaces I really like such as Lexicon, Van den Keere,
  Swift, and Lectura. I started drawing without referring to any of these in particular
  and tried to make the characters as quiet as possible. I'm looking at a useful typeface
  for extended reading. \r\n\r\nHere's a first jpeg of work to date and i would really
  appreciate any comments. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/amarach_1_5905.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "I too am a big fan of the Dutch style typefaces. Your sketch definitely has
    a nice character to it. I find it a bit too sketchy at this point to really go
    into too many detail, but a few things you could look at: \r\n\r\nMind the contrast
    (thick/thin), some letters are quite heavy compared to others (i.e. bottom of
    d/e are heavy compared to the c and b). \r\n\r\nThe o looks a bit like a rotated
    transitional o, instead of a humanistic o. Perhaps you could draw a few o's with
    a broad nibbed pen or broad felt tip (or tape two pens to each other!), to see
    how you can get that interesting humanistic relation between the inner shape and
    the outer shape. Some other characters might benefit from this too. \r\n\r\nI
    find the s to be out of place; it doesn't really fit with the typeface (it is
    also too light), perhaps it's not humanistic enough. I.e. look at the terminals
    of the c and a, they are more brushy, while the s is very angular with its serifs.
    Speaking about the a; the top terminal looks a bit too light. \r\n\r\nThe bottom
    of the t looks a little bit wobbly. The g looks more French-ish to me than Dutch.\r\n\r\nI
    also think what I said about the s could be applied to the capitals, they look
    a bit too rigid, especially because of the terminals and serifs. You know, the
    lowercase looks broad-nib/brushed, while the capitals look like they're chiseled."
  created: '2011-04-23 16:47:42'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "fantastic feedback: one of the things i did was to use sharp unbracketed
    foot serifs while the head serifs have a bracket. I will try some brackets on
    the capitals E F L etc so the contrast is not so abrupt, Yes the s, always a problem,
    if I increase the weight it seems too dense. The o was drawn completely in Fontographer
    so it looks a little transitional \u2013 I will have a look again But thanks again
    for taking the time to comment"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gary Lonergan
      picture: 112101
    body: "The proposed name for this typeface is \"Amarach\" (pronounced a maw ruck)
      which is the Irish for tomorrow \u2013 an allusion to the fact that it's taken
      me a long long time to get this far"
    created: '2011-04-23 18:03:23'
  created: '2011-04-23 17:58:44'
- author:
    name: Quincunx
    picture: 111891
  body: "> <em> ...The o was drawn completely in Fontographer...</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I think a typeface like this would really benefit from actually writing some of
    the letters with a broad nibbed pen or two regular pens taped to each other, so
    that you start to really understand how the tool has (historically) influenced
    the contrast and the relation between the inner and outer shapes.\r\n\r\nAs for
    the o; it's probably mostly that the contrast is wrong compared to the other characters.
    The axis of the contrast is something like 30 degrees, but with the o it isn't.
    In other words, the thickest parts of the o should be at the 2 and 8 o-clock positions,
    approximately. Just like the thickest part of the b is at 2 o-clock and on the
    d at 8 o-clock."
  created: '2011-04-23 18:15:06'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: "This is gorgeous.  And unlike a lot of new designs out there, I think it
    really does have its own personality, its own reason for being.  Very strong and
    elegant.  Favorite glyphs: R, a, h, m, n, r, s.  And those tilted squarish tittles
    on i and j are killer.  You can't tell from a large-scale showing like this, but
    it looks like it might make a really readable face.  Mazel tov!\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I do agree there's work to do.  For one thing, I just can't get comfortable with
    a mix of bracketed and unbracketed serifs.  I know rules were made to be broken,
    but it seems self-conscious to me.  I'd bracket them all, if I were you.\r\n\r\nThe
    upper case and the lower don't quite marry for me yet.  For one thing, the upper
    case seems lighter.  The stems on the upper case should be a bit thicker than
    those on lc characters, since they need to be proportional to characters that
    are bigger overall.  The curved strokes need to be heavier still; the fattest
    part of C should be much thicker than the fattest part of I.  The diagonal legs
    of R and K seem too light to me.  (So does the diagonal leg of the k.)  And the
    feel of the whole upper case strikes me as more delicate, lapidary, and van Krimpen-ish
    than the lower, which has a vigor that reminds me of Lexicon.  Maybe you could
    try beefing up the upper case and bracketing the serifs, and see where that gets
    you?\r\n\r\nThe u and t seem a bit heavy at the bottom, and the crossbar of the
    t seems short on the left side.  \r\n\r\nThe top of that wonderful R seems a bit
    fragile; the big counter looks like it's ready to burst through it.\r\n\r\nThere
    are a few places where the transitions from thick to thin stroke seems too abrupt;
    the eye of the e, the o, and the lower bowl of the g.  \r\n\r\nBut this is a terrifically
    strong start.  I'm jealous, and I'd love to see where it goes next."
  created: '2011-04-27 20:16:24'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "It looks as if you have quite a good understanding of typedesign, but you're
    having trouble with the vector tool. All your curves look a bit clumsy. Furthermore,
    take in acount that diamond tittles are distracting at text size. I would include
    them as an alternative option.\r\n\r\nKeep going!"
  created: '2011-05-01 11:23:55'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: For what it's worth, 1996type, Goudy Oldstyle's been a readable, reliable
    text face for nearly a century, diamond tittles and all.  I can't ever recall
    being distracted by them.
  created: '2011-05-01 20:27:17'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: As many things, it's just an opinion. It's at least worth considering.
  created: '2011-05-01 20:38:31'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: Absolutely, 1996type.  Just wanted to provide an alternative view.
  created: '2011-05-02 20:15:31'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Max Phillips: you are a top man your comments, are very encouraging and I
    will take them all on board\r\nThe cap R is a result of the way I do a calligraphic
    R. I tried it on my other post on Typophile (Erato) but it  wasn't successful\r\n\r\n1996type:
    when you say ALL my curves are a bit clumsy I'm a bit concerned. Looking at C
    and D for example C looks good\r\nwhile D not quite lowercase g is a bit wonky
    as is u and the arm of lowercase k. If i really can't see where curves are bad
    I am as I say a tad concerned that I lack the necessary skills to see this through.\r\nI
    will make the suggested ammendments and post a revised image soon. Maybe a pdf
    is better\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-03 10:41:34'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: Your curves aren't bad at all. I really like your typeface, though I would
    try to make it a bit more original. 'R' is brilliant (though I agree the leg is
    slightly light). If you upload a pdf, I'll give you a more thorough critique.
    I recommend you have a look at TEFF Renard too, by the way.
  created: '2011-05-03 17:52:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm going to come back to this in a day or two, as it's very nice. One thing
    I see now is that f and r may need a stronger terminal/hood/beak. And I'll second
    Sindre on the Renard R. In haste...
  created: '2011-05-03 18:15:21'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Amarach round 2:\r\n\r\nSome curves improved in the Capitals, more brackets
    then an Ikea shelving system, redrawn g, i didn't do anything to f as I'm want
    it non kerning, arm of K and R strengthened. o redrawn, I tried to install this
    in my system but it won't replace the old version as I want to make a pdf.  Off
    to bed to think about the italic etc  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amarach_2_4351.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-05 01:04:15'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: "Much stronger. I think this is really pulling together and shaping up as
    a useful and distinguished face. Big improvements to c, r, and t.  The R's both
    gorgeous and sturdy now, and fitting in nicely. I'm still not convinced by the
    g or the o, though; the g looks a bit heavy and as if it's tipping backward to
    the left, and the o seems light and just not, I dunno, organic. And I prefer the
    previous tittles; the very slight rounding of two opposite corners just looks
    tentative and unfinished to me. I miss the old Palatino-ish broad s, but the new
    one will probably read better.  Though I do think it's got kind of a bump on the
    bottom of the spine, toward the upper left corner. And could the crossbar of the
    e be a tad light? But overall this looks tremendous to me, and I think it's getting
    to where it should be reviewed in text sizes in running text before a lot of further
    revision is done. \r\n\r\nNice work!"
  created: '2011-05-05 19:57:58'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: Gorgeous, Gary! Can't wait to see the rest.
  created: '2011-05-05 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "I over egg things sometimes, the diamonds (tittles is a new term for me)
    seemed a bit basic so i went in and did some sanding on the corners. I may revert
    \ to the simpler form, I'm going to look at g and o again, go over all the characters,
    add a period and comma\r\nand generate some text. Thanks again, I may even have
    another look at Erato at this rate"
  created: '2011-05-05 20:09:15'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "I have generated some text and made a pdf any kind soul like to tell me how
    to upload or link to it cheers\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 23:02:15'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: /Users/user/Desktop/Newfont G/jpegs grabs/amarach.pdf
  created: '2011-05-05 23:07:51'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: You have to attach it in the original post, or host it somewhere like Google
    Docs, and then provide a link to the file there.
  created: '2011-05-06 00:50:03'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: 'Thanks Trevor there is now a pdf attached which i want you let loose on '
  created: '2011-05-06 08:51:03'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: 'I really like this design. Some quick, candid thoughts: ''C'' slightly too
    wide? ''F'' looks wider than ''E'', should look narrower. I''d widen ''E'' a bit.
    Arm serifs on both look more prominent than their other serifs. ''K'' diagonal
    is too fat. ''a'' looks a little unbalanced to me. ''g'' beak should be better
    friends with ''i'', ''n'', ''m'', ''r'' serifs. Also, ''g'' is too fat above its
    waistline. Try to rethink that glyph, I''d suggest. Tittles look crisper than
    the rest of the glyphs, I''d dullen them somewhat. ''s'' a little to narrow for
    my taste, but it works as it is. Some serious issues with its curves, though.
    It looks like you use too many points. Use as few as possible, and mind your extremas.
    There are similar issues with other curves too. Get rid of all the uneccessary
    points, and this will be good.  '
  created: '2011-05-06 21:31:01'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: 'The name sounds like it came from a fantasy book, or a metal band. I might
    look for something more distinctly Dutch (while still pronounceable to the layman),
    or something else entirely. '
  created: '2011-05-06 22:19:05'
- author:
    name: Sindre
    picture: 116197
  body: '... or rather like [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amarok_%28album%29|Mike
    Oldfield''s last good album.]] '
  created: '2011-05-06 23:10:39'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "I printed out some text today and had the horrors. Weights all over the place,
    rendering on the screen very blotchy but that's why it's a good idea to test early.
    \ \r\n\r\nTrevor: Am\xE1rach. = tomorrow  Beidh s\xE9 cr\xEDochnaithe agam am\xE1rach.
    I will have finished it by tomorrow.\r\nAn allusion to the fact that this design
    took so long to come to fruition. I have about 11 other unfinished type designs\r\n\r\nSIndre:
    I agree with most of the comments its also occurred to me that this face needs
    more weight this is a light version.\r\nmight also be sticking to close to Trajan
    proportions. and Mike Oldfield??? I'm more of a Planxty man myself"
  created: '2011-05-07 00:30:14'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: "Your text sample certainly highlights some problems, Gary, but I also think
    it's showing a whole lot of promise.  The paragraph already has a very pleasing
    look to me; firm, bookish, and distinctive without being eccentric or distracting.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you should refine the letterspacing in your trial font before you go too far redrawing
    your glyphs?  I agree that the color is blotchy now, but a lot of those dark spots
    certainly come from too-tight and too-loose letter combos.  The left sidebearing
    of the a seems pretty narrow, for one thing, and the i's seem unmoored.  \r\n\r\nI
    agree that your g needs rethinking.  It's very dark now, with a very strong horizontal
    stress; the gg in your sample really jumps out.  And I find it just less handsome
    than most of your lowercase letters.\r\n\r\nI think the widths of s & e are spot
    on, and that the a balances beautifully; I'd hate to see you mess with it too
    much.  But, yeah, those tittles look a little out of place now.  Maybe save the
    tilted squares for another face, and use some sort of rounded shape here?\r\n\r\nThis
    is a pretty substantial face now, in my view.  Are you sure you want to make it
    darker still?\r\n\r\nI like the name.  But then, I'm writing this from Dublin,
    where I'm visiting my in-laws.  I agree that the name suggests something a bit
    more Gaelic than this."
  created: '2011-05-09 17:11:25'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Here's a first experiment at finding some bolder friends for Am\xE1rach.
    The boldest weight is probably too much but the light weight I have now is a bit
    bit weedy for text. So the top line is the type as it is middles is a multiple
    master instance and the bottom is a computer generated bold which was then edited.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amarach_test_5185.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-10 20:18:57'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "O ..... The bolder the better! Obligatorily make an UltraBold.\r\nBest wishes\r\nJ"
  created: '2011-05-10 21:26:04'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "Gary, your typeface looks quite beautiful indeed, but when set at small size
    it has some weakness. In particular, I think you should strengthen the links/necks
    (see the image attached). I'm not enthusiast over the squared dots, but it's an
    original design choice. That said, it's a very interesting typeface and I hope
    you can get to a fully working version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type01_4247.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-11 09:21:32'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: "I tend to agree with @nceleffi. Your links look as if this font is display
    sized and not text sized. links are too tapered.\r\n\r\nBut just wow how I like
    /R/. Very original. It should be the pillar of your font style. Try to style other
    letters in the same way. /K/ and /k/ could quite easily be done in the same manner.
    And possibly /B/ and /Q/ but not /P/ etc..."
  created: '2011-05-12 16:01:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Ok so it's taken me a month to get back to this... sorry!\r\n\r\n>its also
    occurred to me that this face needs more weight this is a light version.\r\n\r\nNo,
    to me this is a book weight. Your new weights are too heavy to me...if you're
    going to add weight, leave the hairlines as they are.\r\n\r\nI'm enjoying this
    a lot. I even like the thinning at the junctions. \r\n\r\nu too wide?\r\n\r\nf...crossbar
    looks shorter than on t...and a different shape?\r\n\r\ng: ear higher?\r\n\r\no
    (and f): I'd check the contrast in relation to the p, q etc. /f/ may need more
    overshoot.\r\n\r\nH: is the crossbar at the right height?\r\n\r\nE & F: there's
    something unhappy about the down facing middle serifs. \r\n\r\nI'd like to see
    a Q in the same style as the R :)"
  created: '2011-06-03 00:07:10'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I agree completely with Bendy.\r\n\r\n'Lexicon' also has very thin junctions.
    My newspaper (NRC next) uses Lexicon those thin junctions work perfectly fine
    IMO. In fact, they help to make the text look crisper and more vivid, without
    being distracting.\r\n\r\nThe g really seems to be too quirky compared to the
    rest. Try to base it slightly more on the g in lexicon, which has that crispness
    to it.\r\n\r\nI think it will help the comfort of reading if you let the joints
    in /n/ (and alikes) and /p/ (and alikes) meet the stem at the same height.\r\n\r\nYour
    thin points in /o/ should be the same thickness as the bottom of the bowl in b.
    \r\n\r\nI think it's a bit too early to move on to bolder/lighter weights, but
    it's your choice.\r\n\r\nKeep going!\r\n\r\nbtw: There are still some quirky curves,
    but this isn't much of an issue at text size, so you might as well just ignore
    them."
  created: '2011-06-03 10:03:03'
- author:
    name: ncaleffi
    picture: 113555
  body: "\"'Lexicon' also has very thin junctions.\"\r\n\r\nTrue. But when I look
    at <a href=\"http://www.teff.nl/fonts/lexicon/pdf/lexicon_a3_print-600.pdf\">Lexicon's
    pdf text setting</a>, the balance between the thick and thin serif looks quite
    right, while Gary's typeface pdf example gave the impression of lacking strenght
    in those linkings. Also, Lexicon was originally conceived and \r\n<a href=\"http://dpc.uba.uva.nl/inventarissen/ubainv57\">drawned</a>
    for small size text settings, so I guess every devices has been carefully taken
    by de Does for achieving the right balance.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 09:32:16'
- author:
    name: Max Phillips
    picture: 121239
  body: "I'm with Bendy: the highly tapered junctions look good to me, and I also
    thought of Lexicon (and, of course, Swift).  Though of course these may need fine-tuning
    when you see high-res proofs of running text.\r\n\r\nI'd also like to draw your
    attention to Hendrik Weber's Lirico from Ourtype, where the junctions have been
    tapered down to literally nothing: there are tiny gaps between the stems and the
    arches.  And the result looks lovely and reads just fine:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OTLiricoSample_5233.png]\r\n\r\n<br/>\r\n<br/>\r\n\r\nAnd
    I agree that the first iteration was about right for a book weight, and that the
    newer versions are getting a little plump."
  created: '2011-06-06 02:23:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the Headland thread* you mentioned you'd also like feedback on this design.
    Luckily you already got some great feedback! I especially agree with Max's view
    that this is a nicely individual take on the style, not following precedents too
    closely.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/96037\r\n\r\nThe \"g\" is especially
    striking. When I first looked at it I didn't like it, but then I realized it's
    quite a mature and functional shape - in a way innovative even. I would however
    make the ear stronger (not least by raising it above the x-line).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-09-04 20:10:14'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: Thanks for the great critiques. Thanks for the feedback in general. I got
    busy doing other font projects and as I have a day job Amarach has taken a back
    seat. The strange thing is I'm not sure of the g I think it may be a little to
    lively. But I'm going to revisit Amarach this weekend and I may go back to having
    sharp unbracketed serifs.So watch this space. G
  created: '2012-09-07 00:38:28'
date: '2011-04-23 15:52:29'
files:
- filename: amarach.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/amarach.pdf
node_type: forum
title: '"Amarach" An attempt at a "dutch face"'

---
