---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Are there any typeface systems that feature large and small\r\nx-height cuts
  that don't vary in other way? I mean pairs of\r\nfonts where the ascender, descender,
  cap, stroke thickness,\r\netc. are all the same and only the x-height is different.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I'm actually tempted to do this with a fat face family I'm working on, so
    that users can choose between classic and contemporary feels.
  created: '2011-04-30 21:04:31'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Unger's 'Vesta' and 'Big Vesta'.
  created: '2011-05-01 00:23:02'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Licko's 'Mrs Eaves' and 'Mrs Eaves XL'.
  created: '2011-05-01 00:24:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe the MyFonts renderer isn't reliable enough, but it\r\nseems that Mrs
    Eaves XL has longer extenders and more\r\nweight in the stems than the original.
    The caps seem to\r\nbe the same though.\r\n\r\nLet me try to check Vesta.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 01:01:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just checked Vesta (comparing screengrabs of 1600% zooms of the PDFs)\r\nand
    it looks like everything else -except the stroke weight*- is being varied\r\nslightly
    too. Which is normally a good thing really, but not what I'm after.\r\n\r\n* Where
    BTW there's an offset of one weight step between the two.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 01:58:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Frutiger says that Glypha was made out of Serifa by increasing the x-height.
    You can read it starting on p268 of Adrian Frutiger Typefaces: The Complete Works. '
  created: '2011-05-01 05:24:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Hrant, be reasonable, how can xht alone change, practically in a useful design?
  created: '2011-05-01 10:58:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Normally it shouldn't (as I implied by \"normally a good thing\" above) since
    most obviously the relationship between the ascenders and descenders goes out
    of whack (since the baseline has to stay put).\r\n\r\nHowever I can think of two
    cases where such a setup would be a good design compromise, in effect a lesser
    evil than varying <em>all</em> the proportions:\r\n1) Using a larger-looking cut
    of a typeface for emphasis, instead of Italics. You don't want to do this by increasing
    the point size; and since it's an embedded snippet you want to maintain as much
    of the horizontal alignment as possible.\r\n2) If you're mixing writing systems
    (or even languages*) <em>inline</em> and you want to respect each script's apparent
    size and Cartesian-space-usage needs without making a mess of horizontal alignment.
    For example Armenian has the same vertical \"bands\" as Latin, but -for text-
    the \"x-height\" needs to be much smaller. Ideally I would do what I've done in
    Nour&Patria: vary everything (only maintaining the \"style\" and as much of the
    mood as possible). But it gets complicated. So I'm trying to think of a simpler
    method that can work 90% most of the time and can be applied more efficiently.
    What I'm thinking is two cuts per typeface, one with a normal x-height/\"x-height\"
    and one with an x-height/\"x-height\" that's too small/big. Everything else would
    align. What you'd be sacrificing a bit is the descenders (not a huge deal in Latin),
    but you'd be gaining alignment.\r\n\r\n* Think of the differences in density/size
    among\r\nLatinate languages, like Latin versus Polish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 14:53:32'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Lexicon and Trinit\xE9"
  created: '2011-05-01 15:29:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Palatino and Aldus.\r\n\r\nI used to use Palatino Bold as the bold for Aldus,
    which has none.\r\nBut never thought to use Palatino Regular for emphasis in Aldus
    text!\r\n\r\nI have also mixed ITC Garamond with other Garamonds, especially for
    its Light and Condensed styles, which are not available in the traditional Garamonds.
    \r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 18:07:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, it looks like more than the x-height varies there. But again, the MyFonts
    renderer might be too wonky to tell.\r\n\r\nJasper, I'd forgotten about Lexicon's
    (and Trinit\xE9's) cuts that vary proportions! Thanks - and shame on me. Looking
    closely again, it seems the x-height stays the same and the extenders change;
    which could work if point size changes to equalize the vertical span would make
    a pair of nearby weights click... The Lexicon* PDFs are 600dpi, but do include
    some sufficiently large settings**, so I checked: it gets very close, maybe even
    close enough (although one would have to mess with point size differences).\r\n\r\n*
    The Trinit\xE9 specimens aren't comprehensive enough to tell.\r\n\r\n** Although
    no descenders or caps.\r\n\r\nNick, although (once again as per MyFonts) those
    two don't click exactly the way I'd like, using Palatino for emphasis in a body
    of Aldus (or maybe even ITC Garamond within some normal Jannon) is a great idea
    - it would serve as a proof of concept - let me try it...\r\n\r\nBTW, for some
    reason I hadn't realized Aldus doesn't have a Bold!\r\nSomebody fix that, please!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 19:16:11'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: I don't know, but there might be some old Multiple Master fonts where you
    can change x-height yourself.
  created: '2011-05-01 19:44:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "True! Good thinking. A combination of Optical Size and Weight axes might
    allow things to click... Although, as above, the ascenders and descenders are
    likely to change in proportion (as opposed to the descenders becoming relatively
    more cramped).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 19:57:03'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: This talk has got me editing one of my fonts to make a higher x-height version.
    Early attempts show the LC coming out looking condensed to maintain the same width,
    and the hook features of the f and t going all wonky. I'll post some pics later.
  created: '2011-05-01 21:03:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, what the Frutiger book shows is that he stretched the letters vertically
    in the x-height range. That also moved the ascenders higher. He did some other
    stuff, but the basic thing is stretching in the x height region. So that gives
    you a concept anyway of what happens. Personally I don''t like either Serifa or
    Glypha.  '
  created: '2011-05-01 21:17:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jason, cool, but just know, as discussed you'll\r\nbe sacrificing the ascender/descender
    balance.\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm assuming the widths will be let loose, not\r\nmaintained.
    Otherwise besides looking compressed\r\nas you say, the apparent size difference
    wouldn't be\r\nas dramatic.\r\n\r\n> Personally I don't like either Serifa or
    Glypha.\r\n\r\nMe neither.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-01 23:01:44'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Well, I used the Change X-height feature in Fontforge, which worked latgely
    as you describe, though some glyphs had unexpected distortions that had to be
    corrected by hand, and since I misunderstood you I also applied the Condense feature
    to bring the width back down to that of the original. It wasn't possible to match
    the widths exactly, but they came close.\r\n\r\nI think I understand you now.
    I recall reading that versions of Avant Garde from different vendors have different
    sized lower case. That obviously couldn't have been planned as the variation you're
    looking for, but it looks enough like it."
  created: '2011-05-02 06:46:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HrantI >1) Using a larger-looking cut of a typeface for emphasis, instead
    of Italics. \r\n\r\nbut...if the l.c. xht alone grows, and the ascenders do not
    absorb this growth and grow as well... if there's uppercase in this scheme, despite
    the possible overshoot of ascenders above caps in some designs, just changing
    the xht is impossible without raising the caps. Either way, (overshooting ascenders
    alone, or caps growing with ascenders), you'd need to have a style that originates
    with lots of extra vertical space.\r\n\r\nHrant II> 2) If you're mixing writing
    systems (or even languages*) inline and you want to respect each script's apparent
    size and Cartesian-space-usage needs without making a mess of horizontal alignment.\r\n\r\nNobel
    effort. One of the truly divisive underlying issues in all of font tech, is the
    distinct differences in the way scripts address the em. Listening to much older
    hands than myself, I learned that the least evil solution is always to favor the
    script of the \"client\". \r\n\r\nThe web, of course, 'hopelessly' complicates
    modern use of the term \"client\". (So please support the OFF mvar and uvar tables
    if they ever come up ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-03 14:02:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Find somebody with Ares FontChameleon and a computer still capable of running
    it, and you could generate varying-x-height pairs of fonts all day.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 04:48:44'
- author:
    name: JoergGustafs
    picture: 118485
  body: "Hrant:\r\n<cite>BTW, for some reason I hadn't realized Aldus doesn't have
    a Bold!\r\nSomebody fix that, please!</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck out Aldus Nova, by Zapf
    himself, together with  Kobayashi. It features two bolds and matching italics!"
  created: '2011-05-04 13:59:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh. (Thanks.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 14:36:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Oh dear.
  created: '2011-05-04 16:03:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if the l.c. xht alone grows, and the ascenders\r\n> do not absorb this
    growth and grow as well\r\n\r\nI actually mean that they <em>do</em> \"absorb\"
    it - so the overall height of the ascenders does not change. The point is to keep
    as much of the alignment as possible - not least for reasons of consistent line-height
    (although I do realize that a larger x-height ideally requires more leading).\r\n\r\n>
    just changing the xht is impossible without raising the caps.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\nCertainly
    if the x-height gets too big the caps (especially the ones that are structurally
    similar to their lc-s) can get drowned out; but the good news is the caps can
    actually be allowed to get wider along with the x-height increase (since that
    doesn't ruin any alignment). There's a bigger problem though*: you can't emphasize
    something in all-caps (like \"I\"). Not sure what to do about that.\r\n\r\n* Similar
    to the case of so-called upright-Italics.\r\n\r\n> you'd need to have a style
    that originates with lots of extra vertical space.\r\n\r\nSure. Text fonts. :-)
    \ I'm assuming you mean extra space within the vertical span (as opposed to extra
    talus - AKA \"internal leading\").\r\n\r\n> Find somebody with Ares FontChameleon
    and ...\r\n\r\nOr this exquisitely-timed contribution...\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/73827\r\n\r\n>
    Oh dear.\r\n\r\nI just took a closer look at Aldus Nova to figure out Nick's complaint,
    and I'm not sure this is what he meant, but: what's with the Bold looking just
    like Palatino Nova Bold? (Also, I can't see any difference between the two Bolds.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-04 22:36:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As we say in Armenian, I \"forgot the big donkey\":\r\n\r\n> One of the truly
    divisive underlying issues in all of font tech,\r\n> is the distinct differences
    in the way scripts address the em.\r\n\r\nIndeed this is something I've been campaigning
    on for over a decade,\r\nwriting articles, giving talks, etc. Some scripts (like
    Arabic) suffer\r\nvery obviously when their proportions are imposed from Latin
    so most\r\npeople oppose it; some other scripts, like Armenian, don't suffer overtly\r\nso
    everything is made to align with Latin - but it does suffer when it\r\ncomes to
    readability. And I think this sensibility should be applied even\r\nto combinations
    of Latin-using languages that use space very differently.\r\nAnd certainly Cyrillic
    -when its \"x-height\" is simply taken from a Latin\r\nmaster- has suffered too
    much for too long - it's time for Cyrillic type\r\ndesign to make such alignment
    the exception, not the rule.\r\n\r\nThere <em>is</em> merit to alignment - it
    does have a place in any design\r\ncompromise (which to me is a redundant phrase
    actually) but\r\nit's certainly given too much weight almost all the time.\r\n\r\n>
    the least evil solution is always to favor the script of the \"client\". \r\n\r\nBut
    some clients are -or at least want to be, or appear- multi-script.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    OFF mvar and uvar tables\r\n\r\nWhat are those exactly?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 14:58:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Indeed this is something I've been campaigning on for over a decade...\r\n\r\nWell,
    what do you need in fonts to offer a solution to the issue(s)?"
  created: '2011-05-07 11:58:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "At the top end is what I call a \"multilateral\" system where each script*
    has a master design (that fully respects the script's needs, Cartesian and otherwise)
    and subordinate designs in each of the other scripts in the system (where each
    subordinate adapts -although not to the point of \"slavery\"- to the master design).
    And the master designs try to belong together stylistically, as equals. This gets
    very hairy very fast, and AFAIK has only been done once, yours truly's Nour&Patria
    system.  :-)\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome2-1.gif **\r\n\r\n* Or
    technically each <em>language</em> even...\r\n\r\nIn the Ernestine&Vem system
    (the Dublin thing) Nina actually led the way and figured out a valid simplification
    of the system: since Armenian prefers to be slanted -at least when serifs are
    involved- she thought to use the Latin's Italic as a \"pivot\". This worked great,
    but is pretty limited in versatility; the full multilateral system can accommodate
    pretty much any typesetting task, with any combination of hierarchic and parallel
    settings. This thread is basically a search for another valid simplification.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of breaking the vertical proportions across scripts, one has to decide where
    to end up! To this end I've used a quasi-numerical method. I render a line for
    each script where each letter's width comes from its frequency in text:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome1-4.gif
    **\r\nIn this way I can quickly visualize how a given script uses the Cartesian
    space, in particular in comparison to another script. In the above example one
    can see: how little variety there is in the Armenian \"x-height\"; how much more
    Armenian relies on extenders. Based on this I arrived at ballparks of how to vary
    the proportions between the scripts, but then had to do some iteration/tweaks
    to make things just right. It would be nice to have a more robustly numerical
    system that can spit out the \"final answer\" based on: letter frequency; and
    the vertical \"weight distribution\" of each letter.\r\n\r\nThe results have so
    far been applied to Nour&Patria and Ernestine&Vem; the former system has been
    used in a handful of projects, and we have high hopes that the latter will see
    glory once it's finished and FF releases it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI think the first
    thing to do, after accepting that vertical proportion imperialism :-) is a bad
    thing, is to get Cyrillic and Greek to break free.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n** Images
    from: http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 18:19:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "To address Hrant's issue:\r\n\r\nI don't see this as primarily a font problem,
    but one for typographers and graphic designers; ultimately a question of aesthetics
    and branding.\r\n\r\nThere is a school of thought that would like to have uniformity
    in type spec between different languages, alphabets, and scripts (in designs ranging
    from page layouts to corporate identities) \u2014 but this desire for economy
    of means and simplicity of appearance may not be entirely virtuous, it could also
    be seen as a reluctance to allow typography to cater to the complexity of what
    it represents.\r\n\r\nIf typographers are able to manage the intricacies of mixing
    sans and serif type, of mixing bold and light weights, of mixing lower case and
    small caps, oldstyle and lining figures, of applying optically adjusted sizes,
    then why can't they mix different fonts for different languages and scripts?\r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps type designers can help by providing more typefaces with x-height alternates,
    which would seem to be an opportunity in the marketplace."
  created: '2011-05-07 19:37:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ultimately a question of aesthetics and branding.\r\n\r\nThere's more to
    typography than that.\r\n\r\n> why can't they mix different fonts for different
    languages and scripts?\r\n\r\nThey can, and sometimes it makes great sense. But
    if they <em>don't</em> want to produce stuff that's too decorative, if they worry
    about visual distractions taking away from the <em>content</em>, then their options
    are extremely limited, because most multi-script type systems are very poorly
    balanced, exactly because they ignore what I've described. They're basically a
    lot like forced marriages.\r\n\r\nIt's not a matter of making one thing that will
    cover all styles. It's a matter of making tools that are good enough for typographers
    who care about functionality. Such tools remain too rare in the non-Latin world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 19:56:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">At the top end is what I call a \"multilateral\" system where each script*
    has a master design...\r\n\r\neach with its own baseline?"
  created: '2011-05-07 20:46:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, baseline fixed (for scripts that have one).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 21:07:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>There's more to typography than that.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what I said.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 21:42:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Start making sense.
  created: '2011-05-08 10:58:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Let me try again: aesthetics and branding are the elephant in the room of
    multi-lingual/multi-script typography.\r\n\r\nTheir call for uniformity generally
    overides the subtleties that might do greater justice to regional typography.\r\nThis
    is why they are the \"ultimate question\".\r\n\r\nHow does one counteract the
    global force of homogenization, as represented by reductive (modernist?) design,
    and strict corporate identity manuals?\r\n\r\nHaving local type producers is a
    start, and we have certainly seen that in the last two or three years, with a
    swath of \"Cyrillic\" type designers now marketing globally through MyFonts and
    Paratype, and the emergence of linguistically-positioned foundries such as Typotheque,
    Rosetta, Cannibal and Parachute."
  created: '2011-05-08 18:40:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I for one don't ignore aesthetics (and I'm having trouble thinking of anybody
    who does). \"Branding\" is better termed \"identity\" here, and one might say
    it's the raison d'\xEAtre of my type work (which is frankly why I don't make enough
    money in it). As for uniformity, it's exactly what I'm fighting; my disdain of
    Modernism is no secret. The difference is my view of subtlety is much more...
    subtle :-) than expecting people to simply use different fonts for different scripts
    (or languages), which I find highly exhibitionist and anti-reading. Breaking \"vertical
    proportions imperialism\" is the sort of subtlety I'm promulgating (and implementing);
    this is part of the subtleties of text typography (as opposed to the subtleties
    of display typography).\r\n\r\n> Having local type producers is a start, and we
    have\r\n> certainly seen that in the last two or three years\r\n\r\nWhich is great,
    but notable is the paradox that John Hudson once made me painfully aware of: historically
    \"natives\" have often been the ones doing the most damage to the authenticity
    of their script, because they try to emulate too closely the admittedly more refined
    world of Latin type. It's difficult to filter the formalities of Latin type to
    extract only what really works for a given non-Latin script.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 19:05:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">historically \"natives\" have often been the ones doing the most damage
    to the authenticity of their script\r\n\r\nNow that's something I'd like to see
    some data on. Or perhaps it was true up until... I mean, the technology of type
    is foreign to most scripts, and that i think, is where the most damage comes from. "
  created: '2011-05-09 11:05:20'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: It seems (http://twitter.com/#!/iEmmanuelRey/status/74143508478427136) that
    the upcoming New Fournier BP (http://swisstypefaces.com/blog/2011/5/14/new-fournier-bp-teaser/)
    will have two versions with different x-heights. No word about ascenders/descenders,
    though.
  created: '2011-05-30 16:44:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Well, what do you need in fonts to offer a solution to the issue(s)?</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    speaking for Hrant, but as someone who has to deal regularly with the issue of
    different scripts within a single set of vertical metrics:\r\n\r\nWhat I think
    is needed is script- and language-specific vertical metrics, i.e. applying the
    OpenType Layout script and language system tagging system to vertical metrics
    sets. So, for instance, a font that contains both Latin and Arabic designs would
    have deeper descender metrics for the Arabic script tag, and if its Latin support
    includes Vietnamese this might have taller ascender metrics for the appropriate
    language system tag. Applications using vertical metrics for linespacing would
    then apply the tallest ascender and deepest descender of languages/scripts present
    in the text, either at the line, paragraph, story or document level depending
    on user preference."
  created: '2011-05-30 17:31:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>as someone who has to deal regularly with the issue of different scripts
    within a single set of vertical metrics:\r\n\r\nYes, thanks. \r\n\r\nJH> What
    I think is needed is script- and language-specific vertical metrics, i.e. applying
    the OpenType Layout script and language system tagging system to vertical metrics
    sets. \r\n\r\nSo, the sfnt's table(s) include VM 'per script' in general (?) and
    then, per language (?)...\r\n\r\nJH> Applications using vertical metrics for linespacing
    would then apply the tallest ascender and deepest descender of languages/scripts
    present in the text, either at the line, paragraph, story or document level depending
    on user preference.\r\n\r\nAnd the other way around(?) is that if a script is
    being used alone, from a multi-script font, where said script had been \"VM merged\"
    to work with the other scripts in the font, perhaps somewhat uncomfortably, app/user
    can find specific metrics more comfortable to that script/language in use alone?
    (complete with any damage that might have been inflicted on a given script's contours
    from above merge, which can't be fixed this way), some way other than trial and
    error.\r\n\r\nAnd then backward extension of this, into the font tool development
    arena, type design could be perfect decisions for each script, including the contours,
    with an intelligent set of transformations available to \"can\" combinations for
    particular pairs, trios or quads, with optmal VMs for each and all combinations.
    \r\n\r\nAnd then the forward extension back into user space would be to have this
    mechanism in client-side font software, or serve the results, (making it so that
    per-script damage is minimized and could be truly at the user's discretion). \r\n\r\nTo
    do this a tool'd have to change it's attitude to the em and VM, thanks. "
  created: '2011-05-31 17:09:39'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hrant, getting back to something from before, here's something kinda-related
    that may be interesting (disclaimer: I've only skimmed [most of] the thread, sorry):\r\n\r\n>
    1) Using a larger-looking cut of a typeface for emphasis, instead of Italics\r\n\r\nI
    think it's an interesting idea. If I remember correctly, Erik van Blokland briefly
    showed a mouseover effect like that at Webfontday in Munich last year \u2013 the
    idea being to have a website navigation rendered in a given webfont where on mouseover,
    as a way of highlighting (!) the selected item, instead of boldening or something
    the x-height would be raised. I don't quite remember how he proposed to do this
    technically (I think it wasn't about swapping fonts, more like some sort of MM-type
    OT/CSS magic) but I did find it a striking effect. BTW, in that case the widths
    stayed the same (which I think is good for this purpose, since having stuff wiggle
    around in width on mouseover can be distracting).\r\n\r\nThe bad news is I can't
    for the life of me find any reference to this now. It might even have been part
    of that wildly animated/scripted Safari 5 (?) / WOFF demo page he made at one
    point, but I can't find that either. Some help, eh?"
  created: '2011-06-07 20:40:10'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "Nina, is [[http://letterror.com/develop/css3/kosmik/|this]] what you are
    referencing? According to the page it will only work with Firefox 4, at least
    in the context of that example. I found the link through [[http://hacks.mozilla.org/2010/11/firefox-4-font-feature-support/|this]]
    page.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-07 22:53:28'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Oh, yes that was the test page I was thinking of (thanks!), but it seems the
    x-height thing isn't actually part of it.
  created: '2011-06-08 09:39:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It's actually pretty amazing that you would confuse a coooooool FF toy with
    something globally useful ;)\r\n\r\nI'm still waiting for Hrant to add the obvious
    to his excellent idea of larger-looking cut of a typeface for <em>emphasis</em>;
    how the rest of the planet should handle <strong>strong</strong>, and <em><strong>emphatic
    strength </em></strong>, and do so throughout a \"normal\" glyph repertoire, where
    all four states of emphasis & strength are broadly required. And to do so over
    a spectrum of designs, a range of sizes and a battery of rasterizers might only
    be achievable beyond the gravity of typographic reality. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 12:28:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think Strong (The Style Formerly Known As Bold) can be applied in parallel
    to... what to call it?... Large? So no problem there as far as I can see.\r\n\r\nBut
    yes, there's <em>is</em> the problem of sometimes having no way to exhibit an
    increase in size, for example for a character that already fills the Em (mentioned
    in my second post of May 4). In fact some writing systems (those that don't have
    extenders) probably can't use the idea at all (at least not without ruining [their
    version of] leading).\r\n\r\nI guess what I'd say is that no solution works well
    for everything; you use what works best, and even if by some strange cosmic shift
    the idea of Large ends up becoming the Standard, there will be times when Italics
    will work better.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSomething else though:\r\nWhat's sacrosanct
    about The Four Styles?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 13:59:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FYI:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/82906\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 14:50:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.typotheque.com/blog/elementar
  created: '2011-06-09 16:26:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP>What's sacrosanct about The Four Styles?\r\n\r\nNot to me, but to some
    they represent the four winds. \r\n\r\nTo others, and here I am included, the
    two tranformations, bold and italic, are arguably the easiest to apply to any
    regular width and weight font of any script with the four resulting options readers
    are familiar with, brought to them over time by a wide variety of design and composition
    customs that use these four winds to blow the user smoothly along through documents.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 21:38:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think contrast in weight (tellingly dubbed \"color\") is indeed natural.
    But I also think size is much more natural than skew*; even rotation** might be
    more natural than skew. And at every given instant a responsible designer needs
    to strike some moral balance between serving the status quo versus trying to improve
    it. As Robert Plant (?) said: \"Revolution, go slow.\"\r\n\r\n* And certainly
    not cursiveness - that's bogus.\r\n\r\n** http://typophile.com/node/82853\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 22:30:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not cursiveness - that's bogus.\r\n\r\nHow do you explain that no serif
    font has a successful slanted roman? "
  created: '2011-06-10 04:24:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let's define:\r\n1) Slanted Roman.\r\n2) Success.\r\n3) The relevance of
    said success to cultural progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-10 05:02:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Let's define:\r\nA. Think\r\nB. Natural\r\nC. Plant and \r\nD. Improve."
  created: '2011-06-10 08:11:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Slanted roman is the same as the roman, but verticals slanted, with some
    optical correction, serifs flat. Success is that people actually like to use it
    and read it. If people don't want to use something practical like text type, it's
    not part of the culture, so I don't know how it can be cultural progress. \r\n\r\nIt
    seems that the typical hooked serifs help to give enough differentiation to a
    companion made for emphasis. For sans serifs, which are somewhat simpler shapes
    to start with, it seems like slanting is enough, but not for serifs\u2014you have
    to mess with the serifs also. "
  created: '2011-06-12 03:19:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd been meaning to come back to this...\r\n\r\nFirst: David, maybe my request
    for definitions seemed evasive, or even disingenuous; but I do think there are
    some things to iron out in the way we collectively look at all this, and in fact
    I think William's reply does indicate this.\r\n\r\nFor a sans, mechanical skewing
    isn't horrible, although it does really require tweaking (in proportion to the
    amount skewed). For a serif, it's hard to imagine mechanical skewing being acceptable.
    But there's no reason to define \"slanted-Roman\" so dryly. I've seen -and designed-
    slanted companions to upright serif fonts that are in no way mechanically made,
    but are in fact closer in flavor and spirit to the upright than to a traditional
    Italic. This tells me that the definition of \"slanted-Roman\" isn't so straight-forward.
    For example to me even going semi-serif on the \"Italic\" does not preclude it
    being called a slanted-Roman.\r\n\r\nSuccess: there are numerous designs I would
    call slanted-Roman (including some that were actually mechanical, like many of
    ATFs designs in the beginning of the 20th century) that were at least <em>not
    disliked</em> enough to be used a good deal. Some of those were made because they
    were cheaper to make - and people like that! :-)  But some of the non-mechanical
    ones are quite attractive to many people. Think of Trump Mediaeval's Italic (which
    is really quite close to the Roman). And Deberny's #16, which to me is highly
    beautiful. Maybe if you had attended my talk at TypeCon-LA, I could've convinced
    you then! :-)  I think it's high time for people to reconsider.\r\n\r\nBeing a
    part of culture: if it exists, it is.\r\n\r\nCultural progress: to me by definition
    is has to upset most people at first! But it ends up catching on if its merits
    are indeed strong. And if it's lucky.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 01:38:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except for a slight shift in the descender depth...\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/83493\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-05 23:10:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "First of all, call me the crazy lone wolf deeper in the woods than anyone
    in the history of type since the hund o de Baskervilles, but if\u2014 \u201CAs
    its name implies, Big Vesta is designed specifically for larger text sizes\" is
    not A.H. getting it reversed I'm bamboozled. Mr. Unger is a genius and \"Big\"
    is I hope attached to a design that looks quite clearly designed for smaller text
    sizes than not big Vesta!?\r\n\r\nSecond, I entered this thread under two spells:
    spell one is that what you asked for in the founding post is impossible according
    to the physics of the em. Spell two, was that the solution to your desires lies
    in tooling that allows the em of a font family  to be significantly less rigid
    than most ems today. This is required for size mastering, reconciliation of interscript
    em proportioning, and the vast intersection of the two.\r\n\r\nSince this thread
    started to go Nile delta on us,  i've lost the relationship to italicisity/obliqueness."
  created: '2011-07-06 01:48:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Unger himself says that Big Vesta [[http://www.gerardunger.com/fontstore/store-bigvesta.html|is
    intended for headlines.]] '
  created: '2011-07-06 03:51:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The way I see it a font for \"normal\" text sizes (9-12) has a relatively
    narrow range of what x-height works. Below text sizes the x-height <em>has</em>
    to be bigger. But above text sizes it can go either way since readability is moot,
    and style takes over; smaller x-heights are elegant and dainty, bigger x-heights
    are loud and hearty.\r\n\r\nBig Vesta could be a font for small sizes if the spacing
    were loose. But it isn't - it's tighter than the normal cut, so it <em>must</em>
    be for larger sizes. It's sort of how people say ITC Garamond could actually be
    a decent font -for small sizes- if the spacing were much looser.\r\n\r\nBTW, who's
    \"A.H.\"?\r\n\r\n> impossible according to the physics of the em. \r\n\r\nImpossible?
    The worst thing it would be is non-ideal, because if one cut is balanced in terms
    of vertical proportions, the other cut cannot be; however as I said this would
    be a compromise with a benefit: the ability to use apparent size for emphasis
    while maintaining line height.\r\n\r\nSince I'm talking to one of the sharpest
    tools in the shed :-) I must have done a lousy job explaining this - but Vesta
    can actually help. Look at those two cuts, and imagine the Big with slightly longer
    descenders* - there you have it. So it's not impossible.\r\n\r\n* And I guess
    spacing loose like the regular cut.\r\n\r\n> tooling that allows the em of a font
    family to\r\n> be significantly less rigid than most ems today.\r\n\r\nWell, in
    terms of between scripts, yes.\r\nBut within Latin we've long seen optical cuts
    with varying x-heights. The novelty I've introduced here is that a cut with a
    larger x-height (but all else the same) can be used for emphasis (inline, so at
    the same point size).\r\n\r\nI do have a feeling that I'm missing part of your
    argument though.\r\n\r\n> i've lost the relationship to italicisity/obliqueness.\r\n\r\nI
    might have too.\r\n\r\nBut the delta <em>is</em> the most arable!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-06 05:41:40'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > BTW, who's \"A.H.\"?</cite>\r\n\r\nAllan Haley"
  created: '2011-07-06 13:24:34'
date: '2011-04-30 20:49:20'
title: x-Height Variance Only

---
