---
author:
  name: ban comic sans
  picture: 122571
body: "I am posting to let everyone know that we are working with filmmaker Scott
  Hutcheson to produce a documentary film about the world's most controversial font,
  Comic Sans. The font's designer Vincent Connare has said, \"If you love it, you
  don't know much about typography. If you hate it, you don't know much about typography,
  either, and you should get another hobby.\" We agree with the first part of that
  statement. For nearly ten years now, our hobby has been hating on Comic Sans with
  the ban comic sans campaign.\r\n\r\nIn the vein of the Helvetica film, Hutcheson
  will explore the world's love/hate relationship with Comic Sans by interviewing
  top designers including Shepard Fairey, designer of the iconic Obama HOPE image.\r\n\r\nWatch
  the trailer and please consider backing the making of the film on Kickstarter: [[http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/662700668/comic-sans-the-documentary-round-2]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Shepard Fairey's a top designer? Just my opinion, but from what I've seen
    I thought he just got lucky once. \r\n\r\nAnyway, good luck with the film.\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2011-05-05 02:02:23'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: I hope that if you're trying to create a legitimate documentary, you keep
    the second half of Connare's quote in mind as well. If you approach the project
    from an objective standpoint, you might create something very interesting. Did
    you know Connare is a member on Typophile? You should probably try to interview
    him and get a proper look at the history and rationale of the font. Sure, just
    like everything else, it can be inappropriate in the wrong context. But what if
    you're not "showing up to a black tie event in a clown costume"? What if you're
    showing up to a kid's party? A clown costume might be just the thing. Oh, and
    since Comic Sans was never anything but a digital font, why the film of metal
    typesetting in the trailer? I hope that in spite of being produced by the "Ban
    Comic Sans" group, this might turn out to be a valuable film. Or, if it's going
    to be completely one-sided, it had better at least be funny.
  created: '2011-05-05 02:19:50'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "\"You don't come pre-installed on every computer since 1994 without making
    a few enemies.\"\r\n\r\nTimes New Roman seems to have managed that."
  created: '2011-05-05 02:26:51'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "^True enough!\r\n\r\nI find it interesting how people can become \"top of
    their field\" by having one project massively publicized.\r\n\r\nOn a different
    note, I am not sure how this documentary will compare to the Helvetica documentary.
    \ The Helvetica video showed psychological aspects of the typeface and how it
    is used in most advertisements.  I think this documentary will end up being multiple
    interviews with designers that give their opinion on weather they like or dislike
    it.  However, I do think that if you show impractical uses of it in advertisements,
    that could be entertaining.\r\n\r\nBest of luck with it!"
  created: '2011-05-05 02:41:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Typophiles are interested in Comic Sans, like symphony musicians are interested
    in Britney.\r\nStill, the world is full of minor celebrities who think they were
    asked to be talking heads because their opinion is important."
  created: '2011-05-05 03:34:21'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "http://www.art-for-a-change.com/Obey/index.htm\r\n\r\nnuff said."
  created: '2011-05-05 05:04:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I second the suggestion that you take seriously the second half of Vincent\u2019s
    comment.\r\n\r\nI also hope you will be able to get permission from the BBC to
    include this clip in the film.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IgfFyRGlUNo"
  created: '2011-05-05 05:53:02'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "Take a look at the right side.\r\nhttp://www.connare.com/"
  created: '2011-05-05 06:12:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<blockquote>Sure, just like everything else, it can be inappropriate in the
    wrong context.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA lot of folks miss the point on this. Comic
    Sans isn't bad because it's a casual handwriting font used in the wrong context.
    It's bad because it's a bad casual handwriting font."
  created: '2011-05-05 11:02:07'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "If you think Comis Sans is bad go to DaFont, at least 90% of the typefaces
    over there are even more worse. DaFont the movie?\r\n\r\nPieter"
  created: '2011-05-05 11:58:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Comic Sans is <em>not</em> a <strong>bad</strong> casual handwriting typeface.\r\n\r\nIt
    is, however, a casual handwriting typeface with a narrow range of applicability.\r\n\r\nOr,
    to put it another way, it isn't \"bad\" in the sense of having poor kerning or
    an ugly design. It was designed by a competent typeface designer.\r\n\r\nIt works
    just fine as a typeface for, say, an advertisement for \"Cute Kids Day Care Center\".
    Or for an invitation to a 5-year-old child's birthday party.\r\n\r\nBut it cannot
    be used as a substitute for Dom Casual. It cannot be used as a typeface for comic
    strip lettering. It <strong>certainly</strong> can't be used as a substitute for
    Papyrus or Hobo or President or Ondine. And so on and so forth. Since it's one
    of a handful of standard typefaces, like Times Roman and Georgia, that can be
    put on web pages, the fact that it isn't a versatile typeface is very unfortunate."
  created: '2011-05-05 14:44:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Times New Roman seems to have managed that.\r\n\r\nTNR does have quite
    a number of \"enemies\" actually.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 15:05:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"A lot of folks miss the point on this. Comic Sans isn't bad because it's
    a casual handwriting font used in the wrong context. It's bad because it's a bad
    casual handwriting font.\"\r\n\r\nI'm not saying you're wrong, but for the first
    three or four years of its existence there was no hate, and few if any quality
    complaints. In fact as I recall the consensus was that at small sizes, rendered
    bi-level it was a well hinted screen font. The complaints about quality only started
    when it became over used and inappropriately used, as a means of justifying the
    hate.\r\n\r\nI'd be interested in any evidence to the contrary, in searching the
    archives the primary complaint I could unearth was that it was cashing in on the
    popularity of Tekton. :-)  "
  created: '2011-05-05 17:07:52'
- author:
    name: Flickerdart
  body: I saw an ad for wines in Comic Sans once. It was unfortunate. Best of luck
    with your documentary!
  created: '2011-05-05 17:34:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wish I could once again find the single worst* case of\r\nComic Sans I've
    ever seen: on a funeral wreath gift for a\r\nmajor Pakistani statesman, sent by
    the government of India.\r\n\r\n* Unless of course, knowing the parties\r\ninvolved,
    it was in fact intentional!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 17:43:55'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: I have seen comic sans used on the fascia board of an otherwise old fashioned
    English pub. I will try and get a pic
  created: '2011-05-05 18:25:26'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I've seen a death notice in a local newspaper set in Comic Sans, now <em>that\u2019s</em>
    a funny way to die :("
  created: '2011-05-05 19:28:39'
- author:
    name: snow is nigh
    picture: 120282
  body: "Comic Sans is dead. As dead as IE6. Died together with web 1.0, as the private
    \u201Chomepages\u201D disappeared and social content became king. \r\nPapyrus
    is almost dead too, not quite there yet, but will be. \r\nSome home brewed designs
    still feature them, but only by those who can't operate google and just design
    their company in logo in MS Word. Preferably featuring a clip art. \r\n\r\nThe
    \u201Cnew comic sans\u201D\u2014so to say\u2014might be the Exlibris free fonts,
    especially Museo. Which is very fortunate actually, as they are of very good quality,
    and nobody can embarrass themselves using them, other than using an already much
    used font. Jos did a good job with self promotion and online marketing. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 19:30:47'
- author:
    name: jonathanhughes
  body: "\"Comic Sans is dead\"\r\n\r\nIf that were only true. Have you spent any
    time in an American office lately? "
  created: '2011-05-05 20:18:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Comic Sans will only die in WWIII.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 20:21:55'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: What never lived, can not really die...
  created: '2011-05-05 21:04:28'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: Nintendo used to use comic sans on a few old Gamecube games..
  created: '2011-05-05 21:50:37'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I did find a use for Comic Sans in my fanfic 'library' - emulate a mute child's
    writing.
  created: '2011-05-05 22:43:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean blind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-05 23:30:29'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i would much rather support a mockumentary on an imaginary Tragic Sans, maybe
    you could get Christopher Guest to be in it? if you can do that, i'll pledge anything
    you want on Kickstarter.
  created: '2011-05-06 04:30:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't forget my Trajic notRoman!\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_trajic.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 05:51:33'
- author:
    name: Claire Bibio
    picture: 120069
  body: what's wrong with comic sans? in my opinion it's good font that gets into
    the hands of bad designers.
  created: '2011-05-06 08:07:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gCityCare_4372.png]\r\nMunicipal branding,
    Norwich, UK, photo taken in 2005."
  created: '2011-05-06 16:28:06'
- author:
    name: ban comic sans
    picture: 122571
  body: Typeraisin, would you be willing to defend Comic Sans on film? I'm asking
    because the director wants different opinions in order to be fair.
  created: '2011-05-06 16:37:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I would be willing to defend Comic Sans on film. I don't think it's the greatest
    thing since sliced bread, but I think the only thing seriously wrong with it is
    that it has been overused and misused. I may never use it, but only because it's
    overused. Well, also because I strongly prefer a two-story \"a\" for legibility
    reasons.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-05-06 19:15:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the director wants different opinions in order to be fair\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nEither
    he has no point of view, in which case the film will be the usual snoozer such
    talking head docs are, (has he never heard of Moore or Spurlock?) -- or else he's
    just saying that to suck in cannon fodder."
  created: '2011-05-06 19:33:39'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Don't you think it would be most interesting to focus on the question on
    why it gets used so much, by people who are completely unrelated to design?\r\n\r\nI
    just ask because your trailer states: \"There can be no pleasure derived from
    using Comic Sans\" (or similar, not an exact quote). Well this statement is an
    ideological one. You don't even state something normative like \"There should
    not be any pleasure derived...\". You just say it does not fit your world view,
    why would it fit anybodies?\r\n\r\nIt is easy to say, that people who have something
    to do with a design decision, but are not educated about design might tab into
    using comic sans, because they don't know better. But is that interesting? \r\n\r\nMore
    interesting might be why it is used by people who do not care for DESIGN but for
    COMMUNICATION? \r\nWhy does it get used by people who are completely serious about
    their work (heck, even managers maybe for internal use?), what do they try to
    communicate? From which point of view do they come when using it? How does they
    audience (co-workers, public?) receive it?\r\n\r\nSomebody mentions the American
    Office Environment. All this would make the subject more tangible. I mean yeah,
    making a movie about a font as a bad design choice? Who cares? Designers? Well,
    that would be a quite self serving audience. Would't it be more interesting to
    unravel the psychology behind it and tell a general audience: \"This is why you
    use comic sans\"  and: \"This is what other general audience people think about
    it.\"\r\n\r\nAnyhow, I think there is more than the world needs than a movie on
    a insignificant typeface. \r\n\r\nTo Nick:\r\nBetter [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talking_Heads|Talking
    Heads]] than [[http://www.funnyordie.com/videos/47d8df4123/movie-poster-floating-heads-from-fod-team-and-brian-huskey|Floating
    Heads]]"
  created: '2011-05-06 19:43:06'
- author:
    name: adambanksdotcom
  body: "I've never thought Comic Sans was a good typeface, regardless of context,
    and I feel somewhat vindicated in that having looked at Connare's only (?) other
    commercially available typeface, Magpie, which has similar failings. (Since you're
    bound to ask: horrible curves, tedious wackiness, characters that are busy staring
    at their shoes, and no obvious way of setting it so as to achieve anything recognisable
    as rhythm.)\r\n\r\nI do think it would have come in for less stick, though, if
    it had just been differently named. Calling a typeface \"Comic\" that would be
    hopelessly out of place in a comic can only result in people thinking you've tried
    to design a comic lettering face and failed. I suspect that's exactly what happened,
    but he needn't have drawn attention to it.\r\n\r\nI really like the way people
    have chosen it over conventional alternatives for office signmaking. It says only
    good things about human beings. It's just a shame it was that particular casual
    handwriting face, when there are so many lovely ones. Then again, a lot more handwriting
    faces have come out in recent years; maybe people have been inspired to compete
    with Comic Sans, in which case, again, it's made a positive contribution.\r\n\r\nIf
    Connare reads this thread, I hope he'll forgive his work being criticised by someone
    who takes pride in using type well, and has done a fair bit of glyph wrangling,
    but has never released a typeface. Real artists ship, Vincent, and you've shipped
    in spades."
  created: '2011-05-06 19:54:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, if Gary Hustwit has an opinion on Helvetica, I can't tell what it is,
    but his movie is not at all a snoozer. You don't have to have an opinion on something
    to want to see it discussed - in fact it's arguably a great way to <em>form</em>
    an opinion on it!\r\n\r\nAdam: \"artist\"?! Wash your mouth out!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 20:25:31'
- author:
    name: Claire Bibio
    picture: 120069
  body: i'm delighted for the offer, but i think there are wiser people on typophile
    who will do it better than me. i'd like to see mr. Berlow or dezcom on tv.
  created: '2011-05-06 20:47:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@hrant - Nope. Definitely mute. IIRC, it was a Potterfic, though I can''t
    remember which one. The child, one Harry Potter, was still of single-digit age,
    so I figured that Comic Sans would suit well. After all, not many children that
    young are concerned with sub-millimetric placement of characters.'
  created: '2011-05-06 22:56:36'
- author:
    name: ban comic sans
    picture: 122571
  body: "Hrant, will you be in the movie? ...Please?\r\n\r\nThomas, your willingness
    has been noted. Thanks!\r\n\r\nFlooce, you made really good points. Thanks for
    your comments."
  created: '2011-05-07 00:18:43'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "I haven't seen \"Helvetica The Movie\" because that font doesn't particularly
    attract or repel me. It's a work horse, for sure, but nothing special, despite
    its illustrious history.\r\nBut I'm fascinated by the strong emotions Vince Connare's
    <em>piece de r\xE9sistance</em> evokes in other people.\r\n\r\nSurely it's too
    easy to make a mockery out of this new movie, showing only the worst misappropriate
    uses of CS and, uh, above-mentioned \"talking heads\", tripping over each other
    in finding the best metaphor to slam it down. So the idea of balancing it out
    with a few real-world designers that come to its defense (and, if possible, showing
    counterexamples of <em>good</em> usage of the font) sounds very good to me.\r\n\r\n(It
    goes without saying I don't personally <em>have</em> any example of this hypothetical
    Fair Use of CS.)"
  created: '2011-05-07 00:40:11'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: ">>I feel somewhat vindicated in that having looked at Connare's only (?)
    other commercially available typeface, Magpie, <<\r\n\r\nUmm, Trebuchet anyone?\r\n\r\nJason
    C"
  created: '2011-05-07 03:17:27'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "Comic Sans is a pretty successful font but what can you say about it other
    than some people like it, some people don't care and some people are dicks about
    it.\r\n\r\nThere is no single font family that can sustain a movie length documentary
    without filler. I can see doing 22 minutes on Futura because there's a design
    process that can be discussed. The Helvetica movie didn't get into the design
    process much because there's not much of a story there. Vince could probably describe
    the design process for Comic Sans in 30 seconds. \r\n\r\nI'd rather see a documentary
    about the world of font geeks: people on the other side of the high-brow typography
    world who collect fonts, hack fonts, pirate fonts and make free fonts."
  created: '2011-05-07 04:08:54'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I agree with you, Ray.\r\n\r\nWhy would anyone want to watch designers slamming
    or glorifying typefaces in a feature film? Only other designers would be interested,
    I think. I've seen and enjoyed the Helvetica film, it's quite well done and, perhaps
    has helped to put typography as a whole in the general spotlight a bit. But in
    the light of its success now make a documentary on Comic sans? It seems a bit
    pointless to me, if it does not show a bigger picture. \r\n\r\nWhy do we slam
    Comic sans? Because it's poorly designed? Perhaps, but maybe that's the point
    with this kind of casual handwriting. It's not supposed to look calligraphic,
    it should look like everyone can write this way, making it 'personal' and 'friendly'.
    \r\n\r\nI think it is most hated because it is overused and misused. It will hardly
    ever be used by professional designers, but it may have it's value for normal
    users who just want to make an invite for a garden party or a birthday. It should
    IMO not be used for formal or business communication, but there are worse things
    to worry about when it is. \r\n\r\nIf anything is to blame, it should be the combined
    sum of standard office software, PC's, cheap color printers, clipart, pre-installed
    system fonts, copy shops... etc. etc. If anything, comic sans is a symptom but
    not a 'disease'. "
  created: '2011-05-07 08:32:39'
- author:
    name: ban comic sans
    picture: 122571
  body: Oh, and by the way, I was simply sharing my opinion in stating that Shepard
    Fairey is a top designer. That's not based on the one "lucky" iconic HOPE image.
    It's based on 20 years of good design both as a fine artist and commercial graphic
    designer. I don't expect to sway anyone's opinion here if you're already in the
    staunch Shepard hating camp. But if you have never taken the time to look at his
    studio's work please take a few minutes to do so before forming an opinion...
    [[http://studionumberone.com/main/portfolio]]
  created: '2011-05-07 22:25:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Helvetica is a good movie because it''s about much more than Helvetica. It''s
    about the past 50 years of graphic design and the modernist movement and reaction
    against it. If your movie is only about Comic Sans, it''s going to be deadly boring.
    You need a stronger concept.  '
  created: '2011-05-08 02:41:11'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I agree with William, your effort seems trivial at best.\r\n\r\nAnd good
    ole Shep is as original as his hope poster, remember the AP image he 'borrowed'.
    Throughout the graphic design / illustration community people like Shep who appropriate
    intellectual property are less than significant.  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.art-for-a-change.com/Obey/index.htm\r\n\r\nIn
    my humble opinion of course.\r\n\r\nGood luck."
  created: '2011-05-08 04:03:14'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: That referencing other well known graphics in street art and grafitti is not
    so problematic, as a lot of modern art reference other art pieces, directly or
    inderectly. It becomes a different matter if one uses these graphics and uses
    it to sell T-shirts... And using the SS-Skull is just... stupid. It just shows
    he does not really care for the source or the context of the graphics he uses.
  created: '2011-05-08 09:40:34'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>Helvetica is a good movie because it's about [\u2026] the past 50 years
    of graphic design</cite>\r\n\r\nOne way to put Comic Sans in perspective would
    be linking it to the massification of typography due to the personal computer."
  created: '2011-05-08 10:15:45'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '"How the masses were given (some of) the tools but had to find the knowledge
    on their own."'
  created: '2011-05-08 14:57:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just remembered this...\r\n\r\n> Hrant, will you be in the movie?\r\n\r\nSure.
    I'm already on IMDB... twice.  :-)\r\n\r\nNo matter what else might end up happening
    around me in\r\nthe movie, I think I can make enough sense not to regret it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-30 05:48:36'
- author:
    name: TylerEldredge
    picture: 122887
  body: "This reminds me of, well, this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7tUut4J-DzQ\r\n\r\nI
    mean, I wouldn't really recommend using Times New Roman in any sort of professional
    design work, but it has its place in the academic world. What does Comic Sans
    have? I think Comic Sans had its role when Microsoft debuted, but it's hideous
    doesn't serve its role very well...so it should go away.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I think
    that this documentary could be interesting. I consider Comic Sans one of my biggest
    design enemies, but I'd be interested to hear what other people think."
  created: '2011-07-01 06:42:25'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Comic Sans does have a role, but it's not the role you think it is, nor is
    it a universal one. It's quite restricted, in fact. Comic sans's unluck lies in
    being the only informal face/font on a virally popular OS.
  created: '2011-07-01 20:20:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Get real.. world f'n domination. You all are shit designers no one likes
    your fonts as much. \r\n\r\nBlame Canada. Holland loves you!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.3fm.nl/nieuws/detail/350649/Comic-Sans-Dag-op-3FM"
  created: '2011-07-01 23:53:38'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<blockquote> Comic sans's unluck lies in being the only informal face/font
    on a virally popular OS.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBingo. Though I'd add some parens:
    \"(un)luck\"."
  created: '2011-07-02 06:34:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '*blink* *blink* Mothers'' Day... Fathers'' Day... Labor Day... Comic Sans
    Day...'
  created: '2011-07-02 20:31:43'
- author:
    name: TylerEldredge
    picture: 122887
  body: Well, it <i>is</i> in the Netherlands. I imagine the idea was created while
    in a coffee shop in Amsterdam.
  created: '2011-07-02 20:36:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You all are shit designers no one likes your fonts as much.</em>\r\n\r\nAt
    least enough to pay for them."
  created: '2011-07-02 23:09:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I saw a reasonable use of Comic Sans. A site with an open source set of RPG
    rules used Comic Sans, or something that looked like it - maybe it was the Macintosh
    informal typeface instead, I'll have to check, since this was a PDF, where they
    could have used almost any face - no, it was Comic Sans, for an illustration of
    a character sheet, filled out neatly "by hand", as an example.
  created: '2011-07-02 23:09:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good one Nick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 23:19:08'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "As long as you stick to its intended use, Comic Sans is a fine typefaces.\r\nIn
    my opinion, you should use it mostly onscreen. And in small sizes.\r\nUsed for
    signage (as it seems to be quite a trend here in Italy), it looks ominous."
  created: '2011-07-27 19:56:57'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: One thing I hate about video stores is how they have no movies about Comic
    Sans. It's a very sad state of affairs.
  created: '2011-07-28 02:03:19'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: Comic Sans is such a funny font, because it gets bashed so much by font designers,
    yet is so loved by so many. For example, my Mom loves to use it. But that's also
    because it's a default system font on computers that she found simply because
    it was there, and because it's one of seven fonts available in yahoo's email system.
    I suppose if any font was a default system font, it would be widely used, and
    therefore widely liked/loved "by all" as well.
  created: '2011-07-31 20:26:18'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "ban comic sans - \r\n\r\nYou seem to have  lot in common with Tipper Gore.
    When this crusade runs it's course you should get in touch with her.\r\n\r\nWe
    need to be told what is bad, since we are but lost little lambs.\r\n\r\npbc\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-02 18:03:13'
date: '2011-05-05 00:13:56'
title: 'Comic Sans: The Documentary'

---
