---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hey everybody,\r\n\r\nI desperately needed a break from Sensato E, so I decided
  to start on the italics of Sensato A. I guess it's not perfect yet, but I made this
  in just a few hours, so perhaps Sensato will actually get finished some day ;-P
  As always all feedback is much appreciated. \r\n\r\nCheers!\r\nJasper\r\n\r\nSwash
  Caps :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture5_4169.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: sesch
    picture: 121801
  body: It looks gorgeous!!
  created: '2011-05-05 22:02:40'
- author:
    name: sesch
    picture: 121801
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/selecting w_4986.png]\r\n\r\nMaybe the
    shape of /s/ needs some work."
  created: '2011-05-05 22:06:58'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: I agree that the curvature on the 's' could be smoothed a little, and the
    baseline looks quite uneven across the word 'selecting.'
  created: '2011-05-05 22:15:04'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks both. Yes the s needs work, and your definitely right about the overshoots
    Trevor! I'm glad you like it.\r\n\r\nbtw: What do you think about that z? I'm
    quite fond of it, but maybe it's too much. As Erik Spiekermann once said: \"The
    best typefaces are the ones you don't notice.\""
  created: '2011-05-05 22:18:25'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Update!
  created: '2011-05-06 13:01:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Looking good jasper. To my eyes it looks a little wide; I see it's taking
    up the same amount of space as the Roman, maybe you could try condensing it to
    95%? but keep the same slant angle.\r\n\r\nI don't know why, but it has the feel
    of something from the 1940's or 50's which I can't quite put my finger on, but
    is good IMO."
  created: '2011-05-06 13:28:32'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I don't know why, but it has the feel of something from the 1940's
    or 50's which I can't quite put my finger on</blockquote>\r\n \r\nMaybe there's
    a little [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lydian_(typeface)|Lydian]] to it? "
  created: '2011-05-06 14:14:13'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks guys. I'll make a comparison to see if it needs to be more condensed.
    \r\n\r\nI used Stuart Pro, by the great, yet heavily underestimated Matthieu Cortat,
    as my main reference and I never heard of Lydian before. "
  created: '2011-05-06 14:26:27'
- author:
    name: Trevor Baum
    picture: 121410
  body: "Good work, Jasper!  I wouldn't condense the letterforms, but definitely reduce
    the spacing a little, so it doesn't look so widely tracked.  A couple of observations:\r\n\r\n-
    The 'o' is the slightest bit too dark\r\n- The bottom half of the 's' could still
    use a little smoothing\r\n- Look at the word 'Books' - the baseline issues are
    still there, especially with words that contain capital letters\r\n\r\nKeep it
    up!"
  created: '2011-05-06 14:51:07'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Hi Trevor!\r\n\r\nI will probaby do both, slightly more condensed and tighter
    spacing.\r\n\r\n- Right about the o\r\n- s looks fine to me\r\n- That's because
    the caps are outdated and will be completely redesigned as soon as the caps in
    Sensato E are done.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-06 16:40:44'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: update! italics condensed (98%) and spacing tightened (-10).
  created: '2011-05-06 17:05:48'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: I'm astonished at the speed it looks very very good. Have you tried tapering
    on the f descender only because there's such a mass of form there
  created: '2011-05-07 00:34:08'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks Gary! I haven't tried tapering the f, and I probably won't. I like
    it the way it is now. Well spotted though ;-D
  created: '2011-05-07 09:23:49'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Any thoughts one this one?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81948"
  created: '2011-05-07 09:40:07'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: Well you go for it then, and more power to you. Have you ever looked at Georg
    Trump's non kerning f
  created: '2011-05-07 14:30:06'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Looks very good.\r\n\r\nMind the optical height of c, e, o, s. They often
    tend to look too small."
  created: '2011-05-07 16:02:38'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks Andreas! c e o s looks fine to me, but I'll pay some extra attention
    to it.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2011-05-07 16:57:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Yes, Jasper! Wondered what these would look like and they haven't disappointed.\r\n\r\nI'll
    feedback at length soon. Quite a few trouble-spots but overall lots of promise.\r\n\r\nN"
  created: '2011-05-07 20:51:55'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Hahaha. Been waiting for your lengthy comments Nick!\r\n\r\nThe trouble spots
    I notice right now (after watching 'Lewis' and 'Wire in the blood', which switched
    on hyperfocus or the illusion of hyperfocus in my head) are: v w y s f o and many
    overshoots, but I'm sure there's more.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-07 23:15:26'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Hi Jasper\r\n\r\nsorry to go on about your /f/ but is it actually wider at
    the bottom or is it my screen?"
  created: '2011-05-08 01:25:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is little reason for an Italic \"f\" to\r\ndescend, and some good reasons
    it shouldn't.\r\n\r\nThe bottom of the bowl of the \"p\" is malformed.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"r\" is weak.\r\n\r\nThe \"s\" and especially the \"z\" need more contrast.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 04:39:15'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "No apologies but that italic \"f\" is an eye catcher. There is a long slow
    curve on the left leading to a slight flaring at the terminal. This is echoing
    the slight flaring of the other stems \u2013 which makes sense\u2013 but  it's
    spotting in text setting. The \"a\" is also too wide.  Why do you chamfer the
    corner of \"s\"and \"c\" to reduce dazzle but not \"r\". I haven't commented on
    your roman which is really nice but the upper counter of  \"g\" has a stress which
    seems out of keeping with the rest. Now I'd better get back to Am\xE1rach and
    put my money where my mouth is.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 08:53:32'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks a lot guys!\r\n\r\n@hrant: \r\n- Why should an f not descend?\r\n-
    the bowl in p is identical to those in b c d g q, so it's either your screen,
    or all of them are wrong.\r\n- the r is perhaps a bit weak, yes, but I don't want
    to make it much wider.\r\n- I'll try to fix the s\r\n- I tried to give the z reversed
    contrast (Goudy style), but perhaps it's not fully reversed yet.\r\n\r\n@Gary:\r\n-
    Yes. the f needs tapering.\r\n- a is already much more condensed (11 units) than
    the bowls in b d g p q and it looks balanced to me now.\r\n- the terminal in r
    is of a different kind. This is much more clear in Sensato E.\r\n- Now that you
    say so. The bowl of g needs a steeper stress. \r\n\r\nGood luck with Am\xE1rach!"
  created: '2011-05-08 09:31:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why should an f not descend?\r\n\r\nMainly because it creates boumas divergent
    from the Roman's, causing\r\nextra readability issues. What other character does
    that so blatantly?\r\n\r\nAnd really, why should it?\r\n\r\nRemember that -normally-
    an Italic needs to serve its Roman.\r\n\r\n> the bowl in p is identical to those
    in b c d g q,\r\n> so it's either your screen, or all of them are wrong.\r\n\r\nI'm
    using an LCD screen. :-)  It could be my vision... but it's 20/15,\r\nso I'm not
    worried. :-)  Most probably it's another instance of a curve\r\nlooking different
    depending on where it is. When I look at the same\r\npart of those other glyphs,
    I don't see any unhappiness.\r\n\r\n> the r is perhaps a bit weak, yes, but I
    don't want to make it much wider.\r\n\r\nYou could possibly get a bit creative
    with it.\r\nLike maybe look at what Gill (and Kindersley) did.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 16:28:52'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "I'm feeling guilty didn't go near Am\xE1rach to day But I have a good excuse
    I was working on another type design project and did a lot of weeding in the garden.
    \ Did you look at Bliss which has a nod towards Gill. If you do go for the descending
    italic \"f\" you'll be in good company as both Gill and Goudy used it. Mind you
    Goudy's sans...."
  created: '2011-05-08 19:29:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you'll be in good company as both Gill and Goudy used it.\r\n\r\nAnd the
    Romans didn't have lowercase...\r\nGill and Goudy are dead. We still have time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 19:35:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Jasper, I like this whole italic approach. I don't think it is too different
    from roman (upright) to lose the family likeness. But it's different enough to
    work well as an italic. The best test is not to put italic paragraph next to roman
    paragraph but to set a roman paragraph and intersperse it with some italic words
    and phrases to see if that works. Of course a paragraph set fully in italics has
    to work in its own right, but italics are mostly used to emphasise individual
    words and phrases to let's see some of those in your next pdf :)\r\n\r\nYou may
    want to consider lowering the x-height fractionally, although that is not the
    kind of advice I have ever taken myself for italics, so please ignore me if necessary.\r\n\r\n/a/,
    /b/, /d/, /g/ etc. still too wide to my mind.\r\n\r\n/c/, /e/ and /t/ I think
    you may have overcooked the upturn on the lower terminal, plus /c/ is notably
    narrower than /e/ in roman but italic /c/ and /e/ look the same width (although
    I understand that the italic /e/ may be closer in width to the italic /c/ compared
    with romans. On the /e/ the upturn seems inconsistent with the (pen) angle of
    the bowl. One of Sensato's great strengths is its openness. This /e/ tail is closing
    up the white space a little too much IMO, needs opening up a little.\r\n\r\n/f/
    Rightly or wrongly, the /f/ in Camphor doesn't go down as far as the descender
    line (it more closely echoes the height of the ascender in the /t/. Your /f/ descender
    looks very long and the longer it is the more it will interfere with Hrant's bouma
    problem, which may or may not be that important to you as you try to express yourself
    creatively. The angle of the cut-off at the bottom of the descender is certainly
    not helping with a perceived flaring. However, I think the angle is right but
    don't overcompensate the other way by over-tapering.\r\n\r\n/i/ and /j/ If you
    put the tittles in mathematically the correct place (as per shearing the /i/ and
    /j/ they will look like they are drifiting eastwards (accents also will do this).
    Suggest nudging tittles left a little. (You may have done that already but maybe
    try a few more units.)\r\n\r\n/k/, /v/, /w/, /x/, /y/ look like mathematical shears
    without further adjustments (compare with roman counterparts). Thin arms need
    bulking up and thick arms need thinning down a little (unless you want the italics
    to be deliberately higher contrast that romans).\r\n\r\n/o/ and other curves are
    maybe too thick on the downstrokes at 1 and 7 o'clock. Bit too thin at 11 and
    5 o'clock.\r\n\r\n/z/ heavier on stroke form top right to bottom left (stroke
    2).\r\n\r\nThe problem with the dancing baseline would be lessened if you had
    more strokes/contours that actually ran along the baseline itself. At the moment
    it's just the /z/ which actually runs along the baseline. A number of fonts would
    have the first downstroke cut off horizontally along the baseline but allow the
    second (in an /n/) or third (in an /m/) to be cut off in that oblique fashion
    that you are seemingly employing on all downstrokes.\r\n\r\nN"
  created: '2011-05-08 20:22:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thorough stuff Nick!\r\n\r\n> the longer it is the more it will interfere
    with Hrant's bouma\r\n> problem, which may or may not be that important to you
    as you\r\n> try to express yourself creatively.\r\n\r\nFor the record: I'm all
    for expressing creativity (although as most\r\nwill agree this must be tempered
    in relation to a given font's desired\r\nplace along the Display-Text axis, as
    I like to see things) but I just\r\nworry that too many people make the \"f\"
    descend simply because\r\nthat's the way they've seen it done. Independent thought
    is what led\r\nme to a non-descending form.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 20:29:34'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: You did it again Nick! Thank you so much! I'll work on an update as soon as
    I got the time.
  created: '2011-05-08 20:31:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>I just worry that too many people make the \"f\" descend simply because
    that's the way they've seen it done.\r\n\r\nYou realise that the way it's done
    (otherwise how has Jasper seen it done like this?) has a massive impact on whether
    it's readable or not. Something that always descends (albeit in the italic) will
    be 'expected' to descend and therefore cause no problems in Boumaland.\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't for one moment accuse you of wanting to stifle creative expression. Nevertheless,
    you said 'some good reasons' (that is, for the /f/ not to descend); did you really
    mean 'one good reason' or do you have other reasons in mind?\r\n\r\nDon't all
    serif italic /f/'s descend? If so, I think the bouma argument, in this case, while
    seeming robust at first sight, begins to melt away with a bit of analysis.\r\n\r\nThis
    font is beautiful (as I have said before) and warrants thorough feedback.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 21:05:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> did you really mean 'one good reason'\r\n\r\nAnother good reason is that
    -except for languages that use the thorn- a descending \"f\" is the only glyph
    that's so tall; this makes it belong less in the alphabet. (And in previous discussions
    of this issue I think I had thought of a third reason, but I can't remember it
    now...)\r\n\r\n> Don't all serif italic /f/'s descend?\r\n\r\nAlmost all. Not
    mine. And I've convinced a handful of people to break that bad habit.\r\n\r\n>
    I think the bouma argument, in this case, while seeming robust\r\n> at first sight,
    begins to melt away with a bit of analysis.\r\n\r\nNot when you consider how much
    more Roman text we read compared to Italic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-08 23:52:07'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: 'I don''t think the descending f is a bad habit. Martin Majoor uses in in
    all sans italics as does Jeremy Tankard in Bliss. Who both at time of writing
    are alive and well. My own preference is the Trump Mediaval  style in which the
    descender drops straight down with a slight backwards curve.   '
  created: '2011-05-09 00:41:22'
- author:
    name: georg
  body: "The long f is an integral part of cursive latin script and it is not alone
    if you get by the anglocentristic view of latin script. There are other letters
    as well that have parts below baseline and above x-height at the same time: J,
    \u017F, \xFE and often \xDF. Then there are letters with descenders with diacritics\u2014many
    languages treat letters with diacritics as letters in there own right!\r\n\r\n>Mainly
    because it creates boumas divergent from the Roman's, causing\r\n>extra readability
    issues. What other character does that so blatantly?\r\n\u2026\r\n> Not when you
    consider how much more Roman text we read compared to Italic.\r\n\r\nOk, we read
    more roman text than italic. But how did you learn to write the f? (Almost) every
    child that learns to write does so with an f with descender and ascender at the
    same time. The readability issue can\u2019t be that bad. What\u2019s more, the
    special form should rather enhance readability, as you\u2019d not have difficulties
    to discern the f from almost any other letter\u2026\r\n\r\nHrant, I like your
    theory a lot, that scripts do have their traditional style that shouldn\u2019t
    be changed for looking more like an other script. What you argue here is the contrary
    from your theory. If this were about a slanted roman, i\u2019d fully agree with
    you. But this is an italic which has its own rules and its own history. Of course
    it should match the roman, but not by giving up its italicness.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-09 08:49:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "I agree with Georg. If Sensato had an oblique italic, rather than a cursive
    italic, I'd be inclined to go without a descender but I think Sensato has a true
    (cursive) italic so I don't have a problem with a drop on the /f/.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I very much like your typically tidy logic about the /f/ being the only letter
    whose bouma changes (with the potential exception of the eszett and perhaps long
    /s/) but it's not like we're not going to be ready for it in text, having seen
    long /f/'s since we started to learn to write as Georg states.\r\n\r\nAs far as
    Sensato is concerned, the descending /f/ certainly works in this context, albeit
    there may be issues about how it finishes at the bottom, e.g. how far should it
    drop, how much (if at all) should it taper, should it go around the corner like
    the traditional cursive form? I certainly don't think this type of /f/ can be
    disqualified, and it led to one of my favourite characters in Camphor (/f_j/):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/f_j_6623.png]\r\n\r\nI
    doubt it'll get used much but there was a pleasing symmetry to it!"
  created: '2011-05-09 09:26:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The long f is an integral part of cursive latin script\r\n\r\nAnd scurvy
    is an integral part of vitamin C deficiency. There's enough wrong with cursive
    without an extra thorn (pardon the pun) in its side.\r\n\r\n> it is not alone
    if you get by the anglocentristic view of latin script.\r\n\r\nGranted. But:\r\n1)
    Few languages use \xFE or \xDF - I wouldn't compromise all the languages that
    don't; \u017F is archaic; and J, \u017F and \xDF don't <em>have</em> to descend.\r\n2)
    That was a secondary reason anyway.\r\n\r\n> the descending /f/ certainly works
    in this context\r\n\r\nIn the literal sense of \"work\", I think the non-descending
    would <em>work</em> even better. And at what cost? Creative expression? Is that
    the real impetus for a descending \"f\"? If so, that's not so bad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-09 14:15:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: ">>>The long f is an integral part of cursive latin script\r\n\r\nRight! I
    think that the descending /f/ is in common enough usage for your bouma theory
    to be at least weak in this particular case. What you appear to want is for every
    letter to fit exactly the same space - how dull. \r\n\r\nAt some stage, someone
    must have propagated a short /s/. Are you saying they were wrong or that it was
    bad design rationale to move away from the /longs/? (Forgive me if don't know
    my type history, btw.)\r\n\r\nWhat about this theory: The descending /f/ may actually
    function better given time than an /f/ which sits on the baseline, based on the
    descender allowing for further differentiation. We'll never know if you get your
    way! This bouma readability theory has little flexibility; it does not and cannot
    allow for improvements to legibility on a macro-evolutionary basis. So when I
    design type, I'm therefore stuck in a hypothetical grid and I may not depart from
    the straight and narrow, ever! And you complain that everything looks the same...
    ;) \r\n\r\nIncidentally, unless I have misunderstood, /thorn/ is not in the same
    bracket since the bouma remains largely unaffected by italicization (is that a
    word?) With /f/ and italic /f/, you're surely talking about a descender appearing
    in a place where there formerly wasn't one, right?\r\n\r\n>>>There's enough wrong
    with cursive...\r\n\r\nYou're going to make Michael mad again.\r\n\r\nYou didn't
    comment on my /f_j/, does it upset you? Have I been very, very bad?\r\n\r\nN\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-09 16:39:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't mind people breaking rules - I do it myself often! :-)  But it's
    important to know the rules, especially the ones you might like to break. \"Bouma
    theory\" is centered on expectation; since Romans (with non-descending \"f\"s)
    provide the lion's share of boumas, that's the expectation we form. Does the mind
    switch \"expectation sets\" based on whether it's reading Roman or Italic? If
    so, how quickly? Not having reliable answers to these esoteric questions, why
    bother with a descending form? Creative expression? Awesome. Mimicking precedent?
    Lousy.\r\n\r\n> At some stage, someone must have propagated a short /s/. Are you
    saying they\r\n> were wrong or that it was bad design rationale to move away from
    the /longs/?\r\n\r\nI'm a big fan of reforming even the most basic things in life,
    as long as there's a benefit; note my work in alphabet reform. The long \"s\"
    was a readability/legibility disaster, so it's a good thing we got rid of it (in
    text fonts). And this case is a mellower version of that actually.\r\n\r\n> The
    descending /f/ may actually function better given time than an /f/ which\r\n>
    sits on the baseline, based on the descender allowing for further differentiation.\r\n\r\nWe
    think alike! But guess what: if you're going there, make the Roman \"f\" descend
    too! Fedra anyone? Repeat: I'm all for breaking rules to improve things. But I'm
    totally against \"I do it like this because these other guys did.\"\r\n\r\n> /thorn/
    is not in the same bracket\r\n\r\nWhat I was saying is that the thorn spans the
    entire vertical span but because it's so rare it's not enough company for a full-span
    \"f\", so the latter remains too much of a stand-out in the alphabet - sort of
    like the [closed-bottom] binocular \"g\" we were discussing here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/81129\r\n\r\n>
    my /f_j/\r\n\r\nIt's charming. It looks like an Armenian letter. But I wouldn't
    recommend it for long text, and I suspect neither would you. UNLESS it's part
    of a concerted effort to improve readability via heavy use of ligatures (something
    I touched upon during my 2004 Thessaloniki talk, \"Designers of the World, Ligate!\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-09 22:13:13'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: "Isn't it all a question of what you are used to reading? As a child my Irish
    school books were set in uncial types with an accent called a bualta, which was
    a dot over a consonant instead of a \"h\" and which changed the pronunciation.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Uncial_alphabet_3451.png]\r\nThis
    changed in the early 60s when we were hit with the double whammy of no bualta
    and no more uncial type. I remember how difficult it was initially to read the
    Irish set in roman (probably Times new roman) with no dots except for i. It looked
    unwieldy. Today I can hardly read a text set in uncial (or half uncial I'm nor
    sure which is which) There was also that old s which looks like an r which I never
    had a problem with. \r\n\r\nMy point is you read most easily what you are accustomed
    to reading. Changes in the basic letter forms have always occurred slowly until
    relatively recently. Cursive sans were fairly rare until Syntax came along. Now
    it's almost a mortal sin to design a sloped roman. The descending italic f catches
    my eye because I'm not used to it. But with the new open type technology the type
    setter/designer will probably have a choice between a descending or non descending
    and the market as always will decide."
  created: '2011-05-09 22:44:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Now it's almost a mortal sin to design a sloped roman.\r\n\r\nWhich BTW
    is a damn shame, and something [else] I'm\r\ntrying to change (like via my recent
    TypeCon-LA talk).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-09 23:03:20'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: The current trend for cursive sans will probably pass. One of my favourite
    italics is Trump Mediavel which is not far of a true sloped roman. That sounds
    like a contradiction but it has just enough cursive characters to (imo) work both
    independently and as a companion to the roman. And its not to narrow. I use Swift
    a lot and am always surprised by how much text shrinks when the roman is changed
    to italic. My long winded way of saying it's too narrow. I'm trying to draw an
    italic at the moment so I could do worse than look at Trump Mediavel.
  created: '2011-05-10 00:11:58'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Interesting discussion!\r\n\r\nWe don't read that much text set in italic,
    but that should not change the way we look at designing italics. It only means
    that every mistake will be of less harm as opposed to a mistake in the Roman.
    But it's still a mistake.\r\n\r\nI went for cursive. Not because \"some other
    guy did it\", but because I have seen that slanted italics (oblique) don't differ
    enough from the romans, or have to be slanted so much that it becomes ugly. (http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/univers/
    I understand the choice, but I don't really like those italics.) Sensato has it's
    roots in serif typefaces, which makes the choice for a slanted italic more logical.
    Slanted serifs must be really ugly! My plan is that (someday, in the end of times)
    I will also design Sensato Serif, so it would be nice if the two italics match
    somewhat.\r\n\r\nI simply don't like a the look of a non-descending italic f.
    It looks to much 'oblique' compared to the other letters. The reason why thi current
    f doesn't read nicely, is because it wasn't executed properly.\r\n\r\nI like the
    idea of an f that descends, but doesn't reach the descender line. I tried it quickly
    and choose for the one that went all the way, but I'll give it another shot.\r\n\r\nIn
    the end, I'll make my decision based on what I see. I think this is something
    you shouldn't think about to much. Trust your eyes!\r\n\r\nI will not include
    an alternate f in my typefaces. I think this is a choice I have to make, since
    most graphic designers don't have the needed skills to make that choice.\r\n\r\nJust
    so you know. This is an interesting discussion but don't make it go on for ever,
    s'il vous pla\xEEt.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\nJasper de Waard\r\n\r\n@Gary: What is the
    typeface you used for the word 'Angelina' in the Bazaar magazine. I saw it on
    your website and it's beautiful, but I can't name it. You got some great designs
    on your website, but I think the 'Type' section needs to be updated ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-10 11:19:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Makes sense.\r\n\r\n> which makes the choice for a slanted italic more logical.\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean you had considered a so-called \"upright Italic\"? Those don't work.
    They shouldn't be called \"Italic\" (\"Cursive Roman\" is better) because they
    fail at that primary task.\r\n\r\n> Slanted serifs must be really ugly!\r\n\r\nI
    mostly agree. This is where semi-serifs kick in.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-10 14:03:57'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: 'oops. ''slanted italic'' should be ''cursive''. Sorry for the confusion. '
  created: '2011-05-10 14:25:17'
- author:
    name: Gary Lonergan
    picture: 112101
  body: Angelina is set in Requiem Fine. Thanks for the feedback. The type section
    needs updating hopefully with a published font (fingers crossed)
  created: '2011-05-10 14:36:42'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Any thoughts on this?\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/79562"
  created: '2011-05-13 19:14:36'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Update! The eye of /e/ needs to be bigger and I'm sure there's more to improve
    on!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2011-05-20 17:46:08'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Check out the Swash Caps above. Black Italic Swash Caps will follow soon!
  created: '2011-11-26 15:29:07'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "That gap at the top of the stem works well for /B/D/R/P/, but when the swash
    line is short I think it falls apart /H/I/J/L/K/T/U/V/W/. \r\n\r\n/C/ is really
    lovely! And /Q/O/Z/ are all quite nice too."
  created: '2011-11-26 16:20:10'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks Craig! Do you find it anoying/disturbing if it falls apart a little
    bit, or is it ok like this?
  created: '2011-11-27 08:53:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I'd change it.
  created: '2011-11-27 16:09:39'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Hmm... I've tried making it extend a little longer, but that doesn't work.
    Maybe I should make the gap a little smaller.
  created: '2011-11-27 20:40:45'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Damn this looks gorgeous! It reminds me a little of Zapf Chancery (just reminds
    me; it doesn't look like it) but much cleaner and balanced better.\r\n\r\nI think
    the caps might be ever so slightly too fat in the vertical strokes of loops such
    as in Q, G and B. Other than that I think it's perfect."
  created: '2012-01-02 19:06:28'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "I think you need to have a serious rethink about your gaps and their purpose.
    Some characters are hardly recognisable as what they're meant to be at all, especially
    /H/ which looks like /Fl/ or /Jl/. A lot of the others looks like mysterious diacritics
    or ligatures. It's a pity for such a gorgeous, subtle, well-balanced font!\r\n\r\nOh,
    and I'd shrink the bowl of the /G/ a little."
  created: '2012-01-03 00:04:15'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: '@Birdseeding. How can you possibly see an F or a J in that? I dont see it,
    but I''d like to know which caps cause the biggest problem for you. And thanks
    for all the good words everybody!!'
  created: '2012-01-03 19:38:39'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: To be quite honest I also see the Fl. 'J' seems very farfetched. I think I
    would cut a bit away from the horizontal stroke of the swash so it resembles an
    'F' less, and perhaps reduce the swash on its foot a bit to avoid resemblance
    to a 'J'.
  created: '2012-01-04 12:22:34'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Working on it :-)
  created: '2012-01-04 12:29:48'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: /Jl/ is a bit far-fetched, I guess - but the big gap (much bigger than the
    top gap!) between the first half of /H/ and the second does make it look like
    two separate glyphs, the first one which is not-quite-an-F or a-J-with-a-bar-next-to-it.
    The other caps that are hard to read straightforwardly ar /IU/, while /JLKVW/
    all look like they're not quite one base glyph but with diacritics and/or ligatures.
  created: '2012-01-04 14:17:35'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Allright. I can live with swashcaps not being very easily legible or looking
    like they've got diacritics or ligatures on 'em, as long as they look good and
    are recognisable as the letter they're supposed to be. I'm wondering if I should
    persue this at all, 'cause it's much, much more work than I thought it would be.
    Here's a quick attempt at trying to make them a little easier to recognize. Underneath
    are the 'normal' italic caps used. Any feedback is, as always, much appreciated!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture3_6529.png]\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJasper"
  created: '2012-01-04 16:03:31'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Don't look at the spacing/kerning. I know it's crap.
  created: '2012-01-04 16:06:55'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "The normal italic caps look also \"sexy\" but the rounded caps are also too
    dark compared to the lowercase.\r\n\r\nI don't think there could be any mistakes
    about the swash caps now at this size. I'm bothered about the swash on 'U' though.
    That horizontal stroke feels unnatural and forced. It seems much more logical
    on the 'V' and 'W' for example."
  created: '2012-01-04 20:26:03'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "You're right about the rounded caps. I'll fix that.\r\n\r\nI guess the swashcaps
    are settled then :-)\r\nThe U just doesn't really lend itself for a swashcap.
    No matter what I do, it looks forced. I've settled with that now.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2012-01-04 22:19:47'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "1, 2 or 3?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ls_4773.png]"
  created: '2012-01-05 15:25:44'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Never mind. I've made my choice :-)
  created: '2012-01-05 18:31:11'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: Which has to be 1, right?
  created: '2012-01-05 21:45:29'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: The mine, would be the third one. But I would move the top serif a little
    to the right. Keep going.
  created: '2012-01-23 14:43:53'
date: '2011-05-05 18:07:18'
title: Sensato Italics (Swash Caps)

---
