---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "A student of mine has this query that I thought Typophiles might be able to
  help with:\r\n\r\n- - -\r\nFor my current final paper, I have chosen to evaluate
  the life and printing/publishing legacy of Aldus Manutius, including his innovations
  in the way of printing Greek script during the early 1500s.\r\n\r\nWhile researching
  this topic, I came across a claim from the work <em>In Aedibvs Aldi: The Legacy
  of Aldus Manutius and His Press</em> that it was a system of \u201Cvertical kerning,\u201D
  among other typeface enhancements, which allowed Aldus to produce a successful Greek
  type.  In addressing Aldus\u2019s application for Privileges to the Venetian authorities,
  the book states,\r\n\r\n\u201CIn justification for this application, Aldus mentions
  somewhat mysteriously \u2018two new methods\u2019 which he has invented for the
  printing of Greek.  What these new methods were is not entirely understood...Barker...believes
  that the two methods mentioned were the vertical kerning of the letters and the
  system of using separate sorts of accents and letters.\u201D (p. 34)\r\n\r\nEarlier
  on, the source describes the physical attributes of the effect of this \u201Cvertical
  kerning\u201D on printing Greek type with all breath and accent marks, stating:
  \r\n\r\n\u201COne important problem this first font had was that Aldus\u2019s system
  of vertical kerning frequently produced \u2018collisions\u2019 between ascending
  and descending letters in adjoining lines.  The first solution to this problem was
  to expand the amount of space between lines, but as Aldus continued to develop his
  presswork other improvements were made.\u201D (pg. 31)\r\n\r\nAlthough I have a
  mental picture of what this \u201Cvertical kerning\u201D may have looked like, I
  haven\u2019t been able to find any illustrations of the process, and I am therefore
  shaky in my description of it.    \r\n\r\nIf there is anyone out there who can act
  as a reliable source, or has access to a reliable source which illustrates and explains
  vertical kerning in more detail, I would be very grateful for your help.  Any illustrations
  of vertical kerning being used for greek type would be welcomed as well.  I find
  this topic fascinating, and this is a piece of my research puzzle that I really
  need to solve to bring the topic together.\r\n\r\nHere is the citation for the book
  I\u2019ve been using:\r\n\r\nAngerhofer, Paul J., Mary Ann Addy Maxwell, Robert
  L. Maxwell, and Pamela Barrios. <em>In Aedibvs Aldi: The Legacy of Aldus Manutius
  and His Press</em>. Provo: Brigham Young University, 1995.\r\n\r\nI look forward
  to reading your responses!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "One question I had was: if the crashing was solved at first by adding leading,
    doesn't that make all the trouble of vertical kerning pointless? I wonder what
    the \"other improvements\" to solve the crashing were.\r\n\r\nAre there other
    scripts/writing systems with which vertical kerning has been tried (in metal types)?"
  created: '2011-05-12 14:27:52'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I'm guessing that it means he was making type where some parts of the letter
    (accents) extended beyond the type body at the top, instead of on the sides, which
    is more usual. So, yeah, adding leading would defeat the purpose. Maybe some horizontal
    adjustment was being made to avoid collisions?
  created: '2011-05-12 14:43:57'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "More from my student:\r\n\r\n- - -\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"One question I had
    was: if the crashing was solved at first by adding leading, doesn't that make
    all the trouble of vertical kerning pointless? I wonder what the \"other improvements\"
    to solve the crashing were.  Are there other scripts/writing systems with which
    vertical kerning has been tried (in metal types)?\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI have
    both the Barker and Angerhofer sources, and Angerhofer is the only one which addresses
    the first issue.  As I quoted before, Angerhofer states, \"The first solution
    to this problem (the collisions) was to expand the amount of space between lines,
    but as Aldus continued to develop his presswork other improvements were made\"
    (pg. 31).  This indicates as well to me that more leading was the obvious answer
    to this problem.  Barker doesn't address the collisions at all,  but to answer
    the second question, he does state that this method had been used before: \r\n\r\n\"Neither
    of these was wholly new: vertical kerning had long been in use, if not for Greek
    type; separate accents had been used with conspicuous success in the Vicenza Chrysoloras.
    \ But if these were the two 'methods' that Aldus intended to protect. What counted,
    as far as the privilege was concerned, is that neither had been used before for
    the printing of Greek <em>in Venice</em>.\" (Barker, pg. 93)\r\n\r\n\r\nBarker,
    Nicolas.  <em>Aldus Manutius and the Development of Greek Script & Type in the
    Fifteenth Century</em>.  New York: Fordham University Press, 1992.  "
  created: '2011-05-12 17:46:10'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Very tricky. \r\nThe original lead-type corpora vanished. I don\u2019t know
    of any surviving artefacts. So the only proof remaining seems to be the prints
    inherited.\r\n\u2013 Any efforts known to investigate and analyse the prints for
    the issue in question?"
  created: '2011-05-12 21:12:07'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "I haven't read either book and don't know much about Aldus' Greek type, but
    I think I can envision what's being described. If the diacritics are on separate
    sorts from the letters, then the bodies that the vowels and rho were cast on must
    have been shortened above and in some cases below to leave space for the diacritic
    sorts to be inserted. Presumably it's these spaces where the body is shorter than
    usual that are the \"vertical kerning\" referred to. In practice, for dealing
    with eta and some ligatures, you might need to have some diacritic space below/above
    adjoining letters as well.\r\n\r\nSo he would be casting at least some of the
    letters without ascenders on a body that extends up only to just above x-height,
    and casting at least some of the letters without descenders on a body that extends
    only just below baseline. But then for tightening up you would probably want small
    leads to fill in the gaps between x-height and ascender height (and between baseline
    and descent) for sequences without diacritics.\r\n\r\nThis doesn't seem like the
    simplest way of casting Greek type, but I suppose it would keep the type case
    down to a reasonable size.\r\n\r\nETA: [[http://net.lib.byu.edu/aldine/ald15lf1.jpg|This
    example of Aldus' Greek]] uses an eta without descender, which solves the problem
    of placing iota subscripts without requiring any space under the preceding letter.
    And I don't see any ligatures that would cause diacritics above the letter to
    be displaced horizontally either."
  created: '2011-05-12 21:35:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "If they were on separate sorts, I don't think they would use the word \"kern\".
    Here's what \"kern\" meant in foundry type:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern002_4011.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    part that sticks outside the body is the \"kern\". I think vertical kerning would
    be when part of a character (an accent in this case) extends beyond the top of
    the body and into the descender space of the line above."
  created: '2011-05-13 03:06:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Craig, I strongly recommend that your student read Peter Burnhill\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/books/978-0-907259-19-0\"><em>Type spaces:
    in-house norms in the typography of Aldus Manutius</em></a>. Burnhill\u2019s detailed
    analysis of Adline microtypography includes an attempt to reconstruct the underlying
    arrangement of sorts from measurement of the printed page, as shown in <a href=\"http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/images/spreads/77/large/typespaces_pp80-81.jpg\">this
    image</a>. On the right hand page, you can see (compositor\u2019s view, upside
    down and backwards), the descenders of some letters sitting on top of the body
    of letter and spacing sorts in the next line. This is what I would understand
    by \u2018vertical kerning\u2019.\r\n\r\n[In other words, what Mark Simonson said.]"
  created: '2011-05-13 04:08:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: John, that seems like precisely what she's looking for. Thanks for the lead!
  created: '2011-05-13 04:19:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "For all we know, Aldus may have stepped the type blocks of accentable letters,
    putting a shelf in the extender area, on which shallow-bodied accents sat. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kern_greek_3689.png]\r\n\r\nReally
    tall diacritics (stacked, eg. psili with perispomeni) could have bridged lines,
    which would be vertical kerning.\r\n\r\nWith this method, it wouldn't be necessary
    to pack the gaps left for accents, in non-accented letters, with spacing material\u2014which
    would be necessary if separate accents and letters were all the same body depth."
  created: '2011-05-13 05:08:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My guess would be double hitting the page.  The first time through were the
    letters and the second form only with the accents.  Perhaps this is why there
    were occasional collisions. Tight registration  in that time was more than difficult.\r\n\r\nAnd
    No, I have absolutely no proof of this ;-)"
  created: '2011-05-13 05:49:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "John: That's almost exactly what I was picturing, except that it's the descenders
    that are kerned instead of the accents.\r\n\r\nNick: If anything that would be
    mortised type, not kerned type.\r\n\r\nChris: I remember hearing that designer
    and typographer Mo Leibowitz used that method in order to get tighter letter spacing
    and negative leading with metal type. Pretty time-consuming and tricky, I imagine.
    It's more or less what we call kerning nowadays (exceptions to standard spacing),
    but that's not something that would have been described as kerning in the metal
    type era.\r\n\r\n(The term \"kerning\" has drifted so far from its original meaning
    that many young designers seem to think it means the same thing as \"spacing\".)"
  created: '2011-05-13 14:57:50'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > (The term \"kerning\" has drifted so far from its original meaning
    that many young designers seem to think it means the same thing as \"spacing\".)</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    one of my biggest pet peeves. But I suppose I\u2019m just going to have to get
    over it, one of these days."
  created: '2011-05-13 15:14:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nIf I were to do it, I would first run the 1st form as text without
    accents. Then I would tweezer out only the base glyphs to be accented and replace
    them with glyphs of accents only but a bit higher than type high--perhaps drop
    a spacer into the vacated slot to raise the accent above the rest. Next, I would
    add one 3pt (or whatever) slug from above the form which would shift the accented
    form  down the needed amount.  I would then reduce the packing to allow for the
    higher type position. Then run the second form.\r\n This would be \"vertical kerning\"
    because I would have shifted the accents closer to the base letters without worry
    of decenders above.  This method is not much different than two color letterpress
    where the first form may be a table of figures or text in one color; then followed
    y a 2nd color form of rules set to the same leading and measure with a slug inserted
    to shift the form so the rules hit between lines of the first form.  There would
    be no need to make any adjustments to type height or packing with this though.\r\n\r\nThis
    method would require the casting of all polytonic accents and breathing marks
    at the exact widths of each of the base letters which receive accents (they could
    even have been cast taller than type-high to eliminate the need for the spacers).
    \ This is a much smaller number than the entire Greek alphabet because many glyphs
    are never accented. Perispomeni have very few host glyphs, for example.\r\nThe
    amount of pressure and inking required for such a sparse setting as the 2nd form
    would be less than a full block of text so doubling of the lower dropped base
    glyphs would be unlikely."
  created: '2011-05-13 16:20:19'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Sure, he could have done something like that, but you''re using the word
    "kerning" in the current sense. If that''s what Aldus did, they would not have
    called it "vertical kerning" in <em>In Aedibvs Aldi: The Legacy of Aldus Manutius
    and His Press</em>, since historically that''s not what "kerning" meant.'
  created: '2011-05-13 16:25:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Anyone who has had set type is surely familiar of the problem created by
    a piece of grit on the type bed that raises a single glyph above the height of
    the rest. This could have been the happy accident which gave those 15th century
    printers the idea. Instead of cursing the grit, perhaps they had a Eureka moment?\r\n\r\nAgain,
    this is all pure speculation on my part. I am just trying to think of what may
    have been possible given there equipment.  My letterpress setting days ended in
    the early 1960's using ATF type on a Vandercook so I am sure they had some different
    problems with their equipment."
  created: '2011-05-13 16:33:00'
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "\xD7"
  created: '2011-05-13 17:23:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry, Mark, we cross-posted. \r\nI don't know how well the wording used
    in the Aldus book fits what they did versus how they described it.  I would not
    be terribly surprised if their terminology were purposely misleading to protect
    their \"trade secret\" ;-)\r\nI do remember hearing Warnock speak about the differences
    between hinting in PostScript vs TrueType at Seybold in the late 80s.  He was
    being as vague as possible pretty much saying that the Adobe method was much \"simpler\"
    but got the same result. Jobs and Gates were also presenters and were equally
    vague but cock sure that their way was better. The rest is history, as they say,
    but I assume having trade secrets was no different in Aldus's time.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    this is pure speculation."
  created: '2011-05-13 18:27:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'Chris: Right. Basically, I''m assuming that in <em>In Aedibvs Aldi</em> the
    term is being used in the historical sense of the word and that, in doing so,
    they are saying what they believe to be Aldus'' technique. Whether this is how
    Aldus actually did it or not, or what he called it (to his confidants)...&lt;shrug&gt;.'
  created: '2011-05-13 18:59:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Part of Burnhill\u2019s analysis of Adline norms relies on misprints in which
    the top or bottom edge of a sort makes a visible impression, e.g. because of grit
    on the type bed as Chris describes. Such accidents enabled Burnhill to accurately
    measure the body height of Aldine sorts and, among other things, confirm that
    no leading strips were used: interline spacing was determined directly by the
    body height with what we might now call \u2018built-in leading\u2019.\r\n\r\nThe
    method suggested by Nick, with decomposed accents fitted to mortised bodies, could
    have been done, but I\u2019m not aware of any physical evidence for it, and I
    don't think it would have been efficient. Burnhill suggests that accents were
    kerned off narrow sorts following the letter or, in some cases, on either side
    of a letter, which explains the inconsistent spacing between tone and breathing
    marks. This technique preserves the standard horizontal composition of sorts,
    without introducing a new class of mortised bases and vertically composed elements.\r\n\r\nMore
    controversially to my mind, Burnhill\u2019s composition reconstructions suggest
    that at least some ligatures were composed of what we would think of a contextual
    variants. I'm willing to believe that it might have been the case, but I'm not
    sure whether the physical evidence supports it. Certainly, subsequent generations
    of renaissance Greek printers using Granjon\u2019s types and those derived from
    them, did not do this, and the catalogue of Greek sorts from Ensched\xE9 and Oxford
    show precomposed ligature sorts. The trouble I have believing that the Aldine
    books were composed using contextual variants in this way stems from just how
    difficult this is for the compositor. It is something that we can do today because
    we have computers to perform the lookups for us, and they don't get tired and
    they don't get sloppy. The only handset type system I am aware of that definitely
    did use contextual variants\u2014 M\xFChendiso\u011Flu\u2019s Ottoman Arabic type\u2014proved
    to be overwhelmingly difficult for compositors: even within a single book the
    quality of the typesetting degrades, with more and more mistakes being made.\r\n\r\n[By
    the way, if anyone comes across examples of Greek capital letters with tone/breathing
    marks on their left, i.e. the \u2018standard\u2019 position, prior to the 19th
    Century, please let me know.]"
  created: '2011-05-13 19:06:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here is a scan of Peter Burnhill\u2019s compositor\u2019s view reconstruction
    of a portion of Lascaris\u2019 <em>Erotemata</em> of 1495, a primer of Greek grammar.
    One of the interesting aspects of this project, to which Burnhill draws attention,
    is that Griffo\u2019s type for it is deliberately a handwriting font, designed
    as a model for the student to follow in learning to write Greek. Another, and
    crucial aspect, is that Griffo was obliged to fit this Greek into the body height
    (matrix mould aperture) of an existing Latin type selected for the composition
    of the explanatory Latin text; Burnhill\u2019s analysis of the implications of
    this constraint is central to his reconstruction of Griffo\u2019s solution.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/burnhilllascaris_5010.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-14 00:26:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here are 2 images from Scholderer's book.\r\n\r\nPlate 10 (Batrachomyomachia.Laonicus,
    Venice, 1486) is 2 color indicating that printing every other line was a known
    method then,\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1486-2color-Laonicusl-sch-10_3757.png]\r\n\r\nNext
    is Plate 21, Aristophanes, Aldus, Venice, 1502\r\nNotice the poorly placed accents,
    odd spacing of breathing marks and generally scattered look to meshing of placement
    of accents to base glyphs.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1498-aldus-Sch-21_3576.png]"
  created: '2011-05-14 00:52:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is as much of the page that fit on my scanner:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smaller-Greek-plate-Scholderer-21_6725.png]"
  created: '2011-05-14 00:55:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI see what you mean about Burnhils theory,  Is he showing parts
    of glyphs mortised into the line above or are there 3 piece on two lines?\r\nThis
    also is interesting as a graphic:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/burnhil_4033.png]"
  created: '2011-05-14 01:16:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought of another way to do this which would have been even easier than
    my first conjecture.\r\n\r\nSuppose that we set every other line of text on a
    page and then places a slug the exact height of whatever text plus leading they
    used.  (perhaps just stacked as John indicates from his reading). We then print
    even lines as form one and odd lines as form two.  This would allow for the mortising
    in of the accents in the slugged line either to mark the the text on the following
    line of form one or to appear where they would need to be for the 2nd form when
    those lines were printed?  Since the accents were not perfectly aligned in several
    cases, this could indicate either a small missed measure or miscut of the slug
    to fit the accented glyphs?\r\n\r\nThis eliminates all of the tweezer work and
    packing changes but adds the time to slug and space the accented lines."
  created: '2011-05-14 01:21:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is he showing parts of glyphs mortised into the line above or are there
    3 piece on two lines?</em>\r\n\r\nNot motised; rather, a classic kern, i.e. an
    unsupported part of a glyph overhanging the edge of one piece of type to rest
    on top of the face of an adjacent piece. Mark\u2019s illustration of an italic
    f shows the common horizontal kern; what Aldus appears to have done is the vertical
    equivalent."
  created: '2011-05-14 03:29:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks, John.  I did not mean those parts of your pix. That is the normal
    overlap used for italic faces That I have always seen.  I meant this little dittie
    here in the middle:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/detail_3959.png]"
  created: '2011-05-14 04:48:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In the corresponding, right-way-around image, this is one of the things that
    Burnhill identifies as a \u2018horizontal junction\u2019, i.e. a ligature formed
    by two contextual variants with a that join along a connecting stroke, in this
    case a \u03C4\u03B1 ligature, I believe, as part of the word \u03BC\u03AD\u03C4\u03B1.
    The horizontal line in the area that you highlight is part of the glyph, not an
    indication of a mortise in the sort; see the, flipped, print image:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lascaris2_4388.png]"
  created: '2011-05-14 20:18:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, John. That clears it up nicely.
  created: '2011-05-14 21:37:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "My guess as to what was meant would be very simple: to allow accents to be
    placed above lowercase letters, without the need for making type slugs bearing
    every combination, Aldus went and turned the <em>ascenders</em>, not the descenders,
    into kerns. And, for capital letters, the space between cap height and x-height
    to boot.\r\n\r\nThat would have indeed allowed collisions with descenders in the
    absence of adequate leading.\r\n\r\nBut that wasn't what was requested - instead,
    some actual evidence that Aldus Manutilus actually did it that way, instead of
    some other way, some source with more details than the phrase \"vertical kerning\",
    was requested. And, indeed, the illustration from Burnhill shows that <em>he</em>
    was indeed thinking of the descenders being kerns.\r\n\r\nNow, all we have to
    do for the OP is find out if <em>Barker</em> thought the same way.\r\n\r\nAh.\r\n\r\n\"Aldus
    Manutilus and the Development of Greek Script & Type in the Fifteenth Century\",
    by Nicolas Barker, Fordham University Press, says on page 85...\r\n\r\nthat vertical
    kerning was not used with Type 2 (mostly used as a small supplementary type),
    Type 1 not being part of the Google Books preview,\r\n\r\nand as for Type 3,\r\n\r\n\"Raised
    spaces again show that a third, even more revolutionary, but far simpler, solution
    was now introduced to deal with the problems of composing separate accents. This
    involved a reversion to kerning, in this way: the nominal gauge of the type, 4.2
    mm, remained constant, but the letters were cast on a 3.15 mm body, kerning equally
    (up to about 1.6 mm) at head and foot; the accents were cast on a 1.05 mm body,
    occupying the appearing space between their proper line and the line above. The
    relative rarity of kerning sorts made collisions much less frequent than in the
    first version of Type 1:\"\r\n\r\nso Type 1 did have vertical kerning of some
    sort.\r\n\r\n... so one just has to turn back nine pages from page 93 to page
    84, and the mysteries should all be revealed."
  created: '2011-05-14 23:28:52'
date: '2011-05-12 14:21:54'
title: 'Aldus: Greek vertical kerning?'

---
