---
author:
  name: couzinhub
  picture: 118769
body: "With the high res screens coming closer, (http://www.macrumors.com/2011/05/12/samsung-2560x1600-tablet-lcd-paves-way-for-ipad-retina-display/),
  I was wondering if hinting will still be necessary if fonts are rendered with the
  same quality as a magazine or a book on screen.\r\n\r\nFonts being vector based,
  even zooming in won't impair any quality, so I'm not really sure if hinting will
  be necessary when all computers and portable devices are built with high res screens.\r\n\r\nAlso,
  if hinting isn't necessary, will the font file be significantly lighter, allowing
  webfonts to include more otf features like ligatures?\r\n\r\nThanks for your inputs
  on this :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "People have been predicting the demise of hinting almost as long as they've
    been predicting the demise of the book!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 04:47:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: and the paperless office
  created: '2011-05-15 05:14:01'
- author:
    name: Claire Bibio
    picture: 120069
  body: 'yes, but not everyone can afford this products. '
  created: '2011-05-15 05:14:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Eventually, sure, this will make hinting unnecessary for displaying text on
    those devices. Heck, it's already unnecessary for iOS because Apple's Quartz rendering
    engine ignores built-in hinting anyway. And yet this has approximately zero impact
    on font production, because what matters isn't the least problematic environments,
    it's the most problematic environments. So the question isn't just when we will
    start having noticeable numbers of super-high-res devices, it's when will we no
    longer have to worry about the other devices... and that will be many years later.
  created: '2011-05-15 07:22:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...when all computers and portable devices are built with high res screens.\r\n\r\nSince
    there is no time when this will be true, 200 to 300 dpi screens literally everywhere,
    \ I'm going to start assuming people who talk so knowingly about the relationship
    between hinting  and resolution are just showing off.:)\r\n\r\n>... because Apple's
    Quartz rendering engine ignores built-in hinting anyway.\r\n\r\nThis is the third
    time I found this said by the same person!?\r\n\r\nQuartz does not ignore built-in
    hinting. This has been discussed and examples shown.\r\n\r\nThis time I guess
    the only possible explanation is that T. Phinney  is just a liar?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thomas Phinney
      picture: 128358
    body: "DB: You're being more rude than seems called for under the circumstances.\r\n\r\nHowever,
      in the interests of accuracy, I will henceforth change my usual comment to one
      with the appropriately nuanced caveat, such as this: \"With normal settings
      and sizes, iOS Quartz rendering completely ignores all hints in a font.\"\r\n\r\nThe
      full explanation? At normally used sizes, with standard settings, Quartz ignores
      hinting. At *very* small sizes, it turns off anti-aliasing entirely and displays
      hinted, aliased glyphs. A user can change the default for the largest \"very
      small size\" if they like, to make it a bigger size so it will actually matter
      in practice. The possible range of settings is 4 to 12 pixels. The default is
      reportedly 8 px, which has no impact at what I think of as actually usable font
      sizes on screen. Even Verdana is not hinted to be usable at 8 px, as counters
      close up and the like. But I suppose that for the right typeface and if you
      were into extreme hinting, you might try to make something more workable at
      8 px (or below).\r\n\r\nHowever, a user could increase that setting as high
      as 12 pixels, which would come into play quite a lot.\r\n\r\nSo, yes there are
      some circumstances, with people who have changed their system settings, in which
      hinting matters in Quartz rendering. Or if you want to go beyond where mainstream
      fonts have tread to date. I have long regarded this as an extreme corner case,
      and used the more simplistic phrase about what Quartz does. \r\n\r\nNote: I
      haven't spotted a way to change this setting on the iPhone. Given the pixel
      sizes and resolutions involved, I'd say this really is irrelevant to the iPhone.\r\n\r\nT"
    created: '2011-05-15 19:52:17'
  created: '2011-05-15 11:16:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what matters isn't the least problematic environments,\r\n> it's the most
    problematic environments.\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nDavid, maybe Thomas
    is making a useful simplification? My own view doesn't go much further than his;
    I certainly believe that Apple's rendering is carelessly blurry. But I myself
    would appreciate learning of any attenuating complexities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 15:02:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Posted elsewhere:\r\n\r\nhttp://prometheus.med.utah.edu/~bwjones/2010/06/apple-retina-display/\r\n\r\n\u201CSo,
    if a normal human eye can discriminate two points separated by 1 arcminute/cycle
    at a distance of a foot, we should be able to discriminate two points 89 micrometers
    apart which would work out to about 287 pixels per inch. Since the iPhone 4G display
    is comfortably higher than that measure at 326 pixels per inch, I\u2019d find
    Apple\u2019s claims stand up to what the human eye can perceive.\u201D\r\n\r\nSe
    also:\r\n\r\nCurcio, C. A., Sloan, K. R., Kalina, R. E. & Hendrickson, A. E. (1990).
    Human photoreceptor topography. <em>Journal of Comparative Neurology. 292</em>,
    497-523.\r\n\r\nLong short, there\u2019s only so much detail the human eye is
    physiologically capable of detecting. Sure, if we get in an look at the type 1
    cm away we'll see a difference, but at 12 inches, ~300 DIP is our threshold. Beyond
    this neither resolution nor hinting make a significant difference."
  created: '2011-05-15 17:28:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'What matters is how it works in real usage. Type designers have the whole
    spectrum of screens out there to deal with.  At what point they may deem it unproductive
    to support older systems is a market variable. If you are releasing type now or
    2 years from now, you may have a different perception of where it remains profitable
    to support users with dated systems.  The tough part is defining "dated" which
    is a moving target. '
  created: '2011-05-15 17:47:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>The acuity of the eye has previously been measured at 1000+ dpi,
    at a distance of greater than a foot</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nReference?"
  created: '2011-05-15 18:21:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, that's bull. I can see the difference. And I'm human. The acuity of
    the eye has previously been measured at over 1000dpi, at holding-something--length.
    In fact it's even possible to see the effect of hinting between 1200dpi and 2400dpi
    printing.\r\n\r\nDon't believe the iHype.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 18:52:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Memory. 20/20.  :-)\r\n\r\nBut the challenge to Retina/qHD displays being\r\nbeyond
    our acuity is well-documented, and solid.\r\nPart of this challenge involves the
    realization that\r\nwe have <em>two</em> eyes, and they're known to work\r\ntogether
    in amazing ways.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 18:54:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The first Laserwriter was 300 dpi, and unsatisfactory for text type.\r\n\r\nNever
    mind high-res screens, I have always preferred letterpress to offset.\r\nAs the
    man said, we have two eyes.\r\n\r\nI also prefer rotogravure to halftones, and
    spot colour (including metallics and fluorescents) to CMYK.\r\n\r\nThe nature
    of LED screens is quite different to print: it's transitory, emitted light\u2014whereas
    with print the image is fused into the medium, and illuminated by reflected light
    \u2014 you can turn the image and it changes, and even without moving it, one
    is aware of the different effect of reflected light through two eyes. The printed
    image is an object, an artefact which may be possessed in a relationship that
    is more substantial and profound than that involving temporary images on a screen.\r\n\r\nMonitors
    are quite different to laptops and tablets. With monitors, the image plane stays
    relatively the same angle to the viewer, but with tablets, you can manually twist
    them away, more like holding a print document.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 22:01:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, even after a year of having it, I still smile a little every time
    I use my Kindle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-15 22:14:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">useful simplification\r\n\r\nMy sincerest apologies. \r\n\r\nWhen, and upon
    whom is such simplification useful? It took 3 years, from 88-91 to re-educate
    the public after Adobe \"usefully simplified\" PS to treating fonts and graphics
    exactly the same. We're still re-educating over the \"hint for CT just like for
    aliased fonts\", MS \"simplification\". \r\n\r\nHere is a user who wants to know,
    in pretty clear denial of the economics and processing requirements of resolution,
    whether we can have more OT features if we don't have to hint fonts. \r\n\r\nIf
    the truth is anywhere, it is that all OS operating below 100 dpi, use some hints
    sometimes, and...that resolution is to OT features as bluejays are to oak trees.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-16 12:34:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Not taking sides, as I really don''t have a horse in this race, but 100dpi
    is probably a fairly common minimum PPI these days on most LCD devices (not that
    hinting can''t help those devices too). '
  created: '2011-05-16 16:17:23'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@thomas phinney\r\n\r\n<em>\"...what matters isn't the least problematic
    environments, it's the most problematic environments...\"</em>\r\n\r\nPerfectly
    put. I'll be quotin' ya. "
  created: '2011-05-16 16:29:50'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Despite the fact that the human eye can indeed distinguish letterpress from
    300 dpi laser printing, one has to admit that hinting would usually not be relevant
    there, except when one gets into the realm of microprinting.\r\n\r\nAlso, while
    it is quite correct that abandoning the users of older or less-expensive devices
    is unconscionable, there <em>is</em> also the consideration that hinting is extremely
    problematic at the moment. The technology is essentially limited to proprietary
    environments because Apple still holds patents covering the use of hinting with
    TrueType. Of course, there's also the Adobe Type 1 font standard, and I remember
    hearing of a little-known third alternative outline font format which includes
    hinting (I can't find the name, but it may be one of Fastfont (Atech), Intellifont
    (Agfa Compugraphic), Nimbus-Q (URW), or Speedo (Bitstream); it definitely <em>wasn't</em>
    Metafont I was thinking of), but those are proprietary as well. (TrueDoc, derived
    from Speedo, does include hinting, so it might have been the one I was thinking
    of.)\r\n\r\nThus, hinting is essentially unavailable with free distributions of
    Linux, which means that it would be highly desirable to be able to avoid it completely."
  created: '2011-05-16 19:35:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it would be highly desirable to be able to avoid it completely.\r\n\r\nAnd
    would it also be highly desirable to be able to avoid reading?\r\nIt's such a
    chore, and you can't do it when you're sleeping or skiing or stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-16 20:15:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nThat is a good point. Obviously, hinting is <em>necessary</em>
    if one is going to be using vector fonts, as opposed to bitmap fonts, on a display
    screen with conventional resolution.\r\n\r\nI'm not trying to say that people
    should give up displaying text on computer screens, I was merely pointing out
    that there is an issue surrounding hinting that does give a reason to try to do
    without it. Whether by using bitmapped fonts extensively, as is done to a large
    extent in the X Window System, or the brute-force method of increasing resolution
    beyond what would otherwise be reasonably required."
  created: '2011-05-16 21:04:35'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>The technology is essentially limited to proprietary environments because
    Apple still holds patents covering the use of hinting with TrueType. [...] Thus,
    hinting is essentially unavailable with free distributions of Linux, which means
    that it would be highly desirable to be able to avoid it completely.</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    not true. Look into the source code of FreeType, even they agree that all the
    patents have expired by now.\r\n\r\nAnd besides, hinting is essentially unavailable
    on Mac OS X too, so should we also avoid it for that reason?"
  created: '2011-05-16 21:19:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Jens Kubilek:\r\nApple can't afford to license its own expired patents?\r\n\r\nNo,
    that isn't a reason to avoid <em>hinting</em>."
  created: '2011-05-16 23:22:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: David, to clarify, the use of hint instructions by Apple is as Thomas describes,
    yes? i.e. 8ppem and lower unless raised by the user to a maximum of 12ppem and
    lower. Or are you aware of some other use of hints by Apple?
  created: '2011-05-17 20:39:20'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Yes, I only just got around to compile and install Freetype 2.4.4 on my Linux
    box. They are now enabling the bytecode interpreter by default. Last time, I had
    to edit <code>ftoption.h</code> before compiling to enable it.
  created: '2011-05-17 21:53:21'
- author:
    name: mikeklaas
  body: "Will hinting be required for text sizes on 300dpi displays (say, 9-12px text
    height)?\r\n\r\nAn alternate formulation (that nevertheless loses something in
    the translation) is:\r\n\r\nIs hinting currently required for display sizes on
    100dpi displays (27-36px text height)?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-18 00:41:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "A five minute search:\r\n\r\nZiefle, M. (1998). Effects of display resolution
    on visual performance. <em>Human Factors, 40(4)</em>, 554-568.\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong>:
    The role of display resolution in visual information processing was investigated
    in 2 experiments. Experiment 1 examined the effects of 2 CRT conditions (resolutions
    of 60 and 120 dots per inch [dpi]) and a paper control condition (255 dpi) on
    proofreading speed and accuracy. The results showed that reading performance was
    significantly better in the paper condition than in the 2 CRT conditions. Experiment
    2 examined the effects of 3 different CRT resolutions (62, 69, and 89 dpi) on
    eye movement parameters (fixation duration and number of fixations) in a visual
    search task. Further, search reaction times (RTs) and observers' ratings of visual
    fatigue were analyzed. RTs and fixation durations were significantly increased
    in the low-resolution condition (62 dpi) as compared with the high-resolution
    condition (89 dpi). The significant interaction between display resolution and
    time both for search RTs and fixation durations was taken as evidence for stronger
    fatigue in the low-resolution conditions. Additionally, the extent of visual fatigue
    correlates both with search RTs and eye movement parameters. This finding gives
    rise to the assumption that observers' responsiveness to effects of display resolution
    in terms of visual fatigue differs markedly Actual or potential applications of
    this research include recommendations for the use of high-resolution displays
    (90 dpi and greater) to optimize visual performance, to make prolonged on-screen
    viewing more comfortable, and to avoid visual fatigue.\r\n\r\nNote the year. Old
    news. No electronic text is available from the databases and I do not have access
    to the paper version yet. However, it appears as though reading comprehension
    is not being measured. Knowing where and when people look, and how tired they
    \u201Cfeel\u201D doesn\u2019t really tell us anything about comprehension. It\u2019s
    entirely possible (and very easy to do) that an exact replication of this study
    could yield no significant difference in comprehension, were it to be measured.
    Give me another hour and I could probably find a study that supports (or refutes)
    this. Dyson or Larson have probably already done it. Again, I would need to read
    the entire paper to support or refute its conclusions."
  created: '2011-05-18 03:33:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">David, to clarify, the use of hint instructions by Apple is as Thomas describes,
    yes? i.e. 8ppem and lower unless raised by the user to a maximum of 12ppem and
    lower. \r\n\r\nThe default, I thought was 10 or 11. But the points are three.
    If you say \"Apple OS uses no hints\", you are mightily insulting MS, who in the
    same reolution spectrum, uses lots of hints. In fact they need everyone to hint
    or else. \r\n\r\nSecond, the clear facts show that the OS does use hints, so why
    repeatedly say otherwise? \r\n\r\n>Or are you aware of some other use of hints
    by Apple?\r\n\r\nYes. The Mac OS has the capability to special case any font,
    gaspishly using hints to any OS specified size, or ignoring the user's smoothing
    prefs, and presenting smoothed fonts below the users prefs. This, doing what the
    font says, special casing applies to Courier and Luci da Grande at least. \r\n\r\nAnd
    third, I'm still here. I can't leave or else, well, just imagine I wasn't here
    for the last 6-7 years of lies rendered and rerendered. ;)\r\n\r\nChristopher,
    wow, what a find! I didn't think anyone in the field of psych could imagine such
    a useful study! Old, yes... but the timing <em>was</em> perfect.\r\n\r\n>Is hinting
    currently required for display sizes on 100dpi displays (27-36px text height)?\r\n\r\nJust
    on windows."
  created: '2011-05-18 10:37:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The default, I thought was 10 or 11.\r\n\r\nStill too low. Even the max
    of 12 is way too low.\r\nTo me about 30 would be a good max.\r\n\r\nSpecial-casing:
    how do we get MacOS to do this for our fonts?\r\n\r\n> Just on windows.\r\n\r\nJust
    for humans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-18 14:13:53'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "I don\u2019t think there is any hinting in Apple mobile devices (with iOS).
    This includes iPad with 133 PPI."
  created: '2011-05-18 19:24:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Still too low. Even the max of 12 is way too low.To me about 30 would be
    a good max.\r\n\r\nso as a windows user, do you just set your smoothing to none?
    Does that work for ya?\r\n\r\n>Special-casing: how do we get MacOS to do this
    for our fonts?\r\n\r\nif you want your font to antialias only, you name it LucidaGrande,
    and for non- antialiasing, I'd try naming it Courier.\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t think
    there is any hinting in Apple mobile devices (with iOS)\r\n\r\nMe too. So as I
    have my smoothing set to 4, the type from my desktop, to my iPad, to my iPhone,
    all have the same general presence on the page, though as the resolution increases
    it all gets crisper.\r\n\r\nI've wondered for some time, how windows devices handle
    this, with the discontinuities between CT and print (which it's lighter than),
    and CT and unhinted windows rendering, where the asymmetrical rendering drops
    off. I just hope there isn't a problem in the pad resolution spectrum, in the
    middle between, all and no hints being used  in windows rendering."
  created: '2011-05-19 02:17:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm on XP, with CT off. Except for the 16ppem Georgia \"v\" not much really
    stares at me. Aliased is better than blurry. Hand--anti-aliasing (preferably via
    bitmaps*, but alternatively via mega-hinting) is best, but few people have the
    backbone for that. And to me, rendering \"inconsistency\" between sizes/devices/whatever
    is cosmetic. This is sort of parallel to my rejection of the Modernist \"gray
    rectangle\" approach to typography - it's display-centric, not in tune with how
    people actually read. And I would argue that Apple is [now] a display-centric
    company.\r\n\r\n* http://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 03:22:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "You only ever want to see jagged pixels all the way up to 30? I'm fairly
    certain the tuning fork is in your court;)\r\n\r\nIt's actually pretty hilarious,
    a reader voluntarily working on an antiquated system,, saying a company that delivers
    fully integrated modern products to millions and millions of device gobbling users
    every month and they are wrong - we should retreat to the dark and aliased age
    of fthe 80s?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 09:27:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm saying aliasing is less bad than blurry anti-aliasing; not everybody
    will agree, but I don't think it's such a strange opinion. But most of all, I'm
    saying anti-aliasing \"with intent\" is much better than either. That's what hinting
    (or hand-editing) can do.\r\n\r\nBTW, I chose 30 because it's a little bit higher
    than where I think \"blind\" anti-aliasing -coupled to a high ppi- can give decent
    (if non-ideal) results; namely around 25. A little bit higher because some people
    might be even more picky than me.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 14:46:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Concerning the less relevant issue of what kind of system I personally work
    on: I've used computers since 1977, age 9. Contrary to what somebody who doesn't
    own a cellphone might seem to be, I'm no technophobe. I've called myself a \"technoskeptic\"
    :-) since I do feel I know when a technology is unnecessary to me personally,
    and I don't like just buying stuff, so I'm not into getting the latest-and-greatest;
    it just has to do what I need, and I'm not editing video! The time I spend staring
    at a glyph makes hardware performance moot. BTW, I'm on my fourth car, and none
    of them were bought new. I will move to Win7 one day (I avoided Vista - we probably
    all agree it sucked too hard) but just last month I bought a new 9-cell battery
    for my warhorse (after 5 years), for $35. Which is a nice segue to Apple, since
    gradually they're making their batteries non--user-changeable, and this belies
    a business philosophy I'm not alone in hating...\r\n\r\nApple isn't \"wrong\"
    to sell stuff (except to the extent that Capitalism is wrong, and you can't blame
    individuals too much for the system they've grown up in) but I do feel that does
    not equate to the qualities that I personally value, not least functionality,
    yes, at the expense of popularity, superficial attractiveness, etc.\r\n\r\nAll
    that said, nobody should ignore the reality that Apple <em>does</em> have a lot
    of presence these days, especially in the portable market; so testing on those
    platforms is critical. Which is why I'm grateful to LAUSD for putting a free Macbook
    about 3 feet away from me.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 15:24:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@couzinhub - Do you want your glyphs to look so sharp on those 300dpi displays
    that you can cut rock with them? If so, then you''ll need at least some hinting/instructing.
    If you don''t mind a bit of blur (or if that''s your fave band), you can go without.'
  created: '2011-05-19 20:54:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm saying aliasing is less bad than blurry anti-aliasing; \r\n\r\nYou're
    saying aliasing is better than Quartz rendering on the desktop?\r\n\r\n>I chose
    30 because it's a little bit higher than where I think \"blind\" anti-aliasing
    -coupled to a high ppi- can give decent (if non-ideal) results; namely around
    25.\r\n\r\nYou chose to view type on the screen aliased up to 30 ppm because 25
    ppm is the bottom threshold for dumb-rendered, high resolution usability of aliased
    type in small print text?\r\n\r\n>The time I spend staring at a glyph makes hardware
    performance moot.\r\n\r\nThat's great, and I once had the same Spartan views,
    but if you're going to talk a lot about the way your or other people's fonts behave,
    appear and perform, specifically, or in gross generalities, shouldn't you have
    and use these devices to the point of being immersed in the user-experience, to
    see your and other people's work and support the validity of your points?\r\n\r\nBack
    on the thread, I seldom but deeply wonder about how much other stuff, besides
    dpi, would have to change to bring some vast majority of the lap 'n desktop crowd
    up to 300... like graphics processing power, battery life and OS software. Anyone
    else?\r\n\r\nAnd then, there's the graphics state of the web in this pined for
    resolution rapture.:)\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 21:30:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '@dberlow: you still have a week to go before either Rapture or 300ppi rendering
    engulfs us.  Use your time wisely--personally, I am off to the pastry shoppe and
    the chocolatier for goodies  .  ;-)'
  created: '2011-05-19 22:27:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You're saying aliasing is better than Quartz rendering on the desktop?\r\n\r\nFor
    reading size, to me it is. Whenever I look at OSX rendering, all I can\r\nthink
    of is wasted potential. And, really, is it so shocking to suggest that\r\nApple's
    solution is a vapid cop-out, that they no longer really care about\r\ntype, that
    they don't mind if people read less? When is the last time you\r\nsaw a Lofting
    at a conference? What about Chalkboard? Come on.\r\n\r\nIn contrast MS's work
    of the past many years -in type and elsewhere-\r\nborders on philanthropy - I
    tend to see it as a quest for true functional\r\nimprovement. That's pretty shocking
    for a huge corporation. It's also\r\nwhy Apple makes more money now. And this
    is coming from somebody\r\nwhose disdain for MS in the 90s is well documented,
    on this very forum.\r\n\r\nHopefully once Apple becomes preposterously rich like
    Microsoft some\r\nsense of social duty will sprout, and then we will see amazing
    things.\r\n\r\n> You chose to view type on the screen aliased up to 30 ppm because\r\n>
    25 ppm is the bottom threshold for dumb-rendered, high resolution\r\n> usability
    of aliased type in small print text?\r\n\r\nI don't view type aliased up to 30ppem;
    what I said is that seems\r\nlike a good maximum in terms of user choice. I've
    disabled* CT but\r\notherwise have not changed anything. So -for most fonts- anything\r\nhigher
    than 16ppem gets anti-aliased, but -critically- it's still hinted.\r\n\r\n* Actually
    it might be that I never enabled it;\r\nI forget what the default setting was
    back then.\r\n\r\n> shouldn't you have and use these devices to the point of being\r\n>
    immersed in the user-experience, to see your and other people's\r\n> work and
    support the validity of your points?\r\n\r\nAgreed. And I do have a Macbook handy,
    and I've always been a\r\nbig believer in testing. But I don't have an iDevice,
    so I admit to\r\nnot being immersed in that realm. However I'm not making type\r\nfor
    hand-held devices* so it's not such a big deal. Any convincing\r\nI might be qualified
    to do remains in the realm of larger screens.\r\n\r\n* I'd love to, but it's hard
    to crack.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 22:29:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Good capitalism MS vs bad capitalism Apple? Give it a rest. Ya don't like
    quartz, ya don't like CT, and ya won't invest  in resolution, or a windows upgrade.
    Sounds entirely personal \u2014Hrant against anti aliased text. "
  created: '2011-05-20 11:20:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "?\r\nYou know how many hours I spent on this?\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/\r\nYou
    might want to start with frame 13.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 14:08:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '...and?'
  created: '2011-05-20 20:18:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How can I be against anti-aliased text when I spent all that time making
    a pixelfont family that relies on manual anti-aliasing? And that's something I've
    been advocating for many years now. Maybe Mana is a deluded design effort, but
    at least it proves where my rendering-depth loyalties lie.\r\n\r\nWhat I would
    <em>love</em> to do is a subpixel-manual-anti-aliased font. But that requires
    support for color bitmap fonts. Oh, and an amount of time I haven't had in a while...
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 20:30:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...spent all that time making...\" Might the issue be that people reading
    this thread are trying to avoid spending large amounts of time hinting would also
    be likely to want to avoid spending even more time manually anti-aliasing? \r\nMy
    take on the original post in this thread was that person was wanting to know (if
    not indeed HOPING to know) that they need not bother learning the tedious TT hinting
    process because 300ppi was knocking at the door  ;-)."
  created: '2011-05-20 21:12:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: And how are those twins other than taking up all your time?  ;-D
  created: '2011-05-20 21:13:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> trying to avoid\r\n\r\nI just don't want people to try to avoid <em>reading</em>...
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nBTW, early Wednesday morning I was carrying the girl and she punched
    me square in the left eyeball! By mistake. Or at least I <em>think</em> so...
    Anyway, I couldn't open my eye at all for an hour, and I'm still recovering. It's
    a good thing designers need to squint a lot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 21:21:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Or at least I think so... \" LOL!!!\r\n\r\nWe often wonder about such \"editorial
    comments\" by our children :-)"
  created: '2011-05-20 21:25:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Update:\r\nToday the blessed wifie brought home an iPad2 (cost: $0) which
    I\r\nhave a hunch will be used for some pretty immersive font testing...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 02:03:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Today the blessed wifie brought home an iPad2 (cost: $0)...</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that also what Foxconn pays the Chinese workers who make them?"
  created: '2011-05-27 02:08:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, this is a veritable gold mine of off-color jokes,\r\nbut that other
    thread has rendered the timing less than ideal...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 03:23:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Oh, and an amount of time I haven't had in a while... :-/\r\n\r\nStop your
    bellyach'in an' learn to hrint:-|E3)\r\n\r\n>How can I be against anti-aliased
    text when I spent all that time making a pixelfont family that relies on manual
    anti-aliasing?\r\n\r\nRight, I wasn't abundantly enough clear. Everybody who knows
    what they're making screen text fonts for, likes hand-tuned, full x-hinted greyscale
    fonts the bestest. \r\n\r\nYou, as I intended to say, are against the current
    regimes of anti-aliasing, where the horse and barn, the ship and dock, and train
    and station are parted, aliased windows users missed them all and are out of the
    mainstream appearance of TV, Pad, phone and all new Windows platforms.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBlessed
    wife indeed. How about now? OS anti-aliasing of digital outline fonts on demand
    has a future, no?"
  created: '2011-05-27 13:34:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So does global warming.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 14:04:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I'm starting to think about something, and\r\nthis is a pretty good place
    to ask this question:\r\n\r\nExcept for text-heavy stuff like magazines, do the
    graphics for\r\nmost apps for portable devices rely heavily on text-as-graphics?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-29 16:22:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "iPad mag apps are mostly text-as-graphics. Here, grid fitting fonts to particular
    iPad ppm works. The pages don't zoom, the device res. is fixed, the size is unmodifiable
    to the users except via distancing, and the anti-aliasing is consistent from machine
    to machine, mag to mag and year to year without variation.\r\n\r\nOne just needs
    to suffer the slings and arrows of the blue beenie standards nuts and plow to
    the user's rescue. :)"
  created: '2011-05-31 12:08:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow. I guess that's good news for me.\r\n\r\nAnd these are delivered as JPEGs?\r\n\r\n>
    the anti-aliasing is consistent from machine to machine\r\n\r\nYou're forgetting
    gamma.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 14:28:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">You're forgetting gamma.\r\n\r\nprove it"
  created: '2011-06-01 16:04:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do know that a few years ago OSX abandoned the original Mac OS's more paper-like
    gamma for what Windows uses, but are you claiming that all devices* always use,
    and will forevermore use, the same gamma? Or are you saying that gamma differences
    do not affect the quality of anti-aliased rendering?\r\n\r\n* Including eInk?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 18:40:30'
date: '2011-05-15 04:09:44'
node_type: forum
title: Will hinting be necessary when 300dpi high-res screens are the standards?

---
