---
author:
  name: BenBowsher
body: "Hi guys, \r\n\r\nI couldn't find a thread for this, although I am quite happy
  to be re-directed and shouted at if this has already been discussed. I was wondering
  what people's views are on the idea of typography as an art form. I read a quote
  (and it's a commonly held belief) that typography is best when it functions without
  being noticed. If this is the case, is Typography art? Or is it merely functional?
  I look forward to a debate/being shown where to go to debate this issue.\r\n\r\nThanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Typography is a technique. Whether or not it is used to create art is up to
    the creator.
  created: '2011-05-19 01:22:03'
- author:
    name: BenBowsher
  body: "I see what you're saying, perhaps I misrepresented what I was asking. Is
    the design of typefaces and then it's application an art in it's self? I guess
    it's a skill set or a craft, but is it art as well?\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-19 01:33:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Some typophiles on what is art: http://typophile.com/node/79480'
  created: '2011-05-19 01:51:54'
- author:
    name: jwchen
    picture: 116597
  body: "Quick answer:\r\ncriteria differ from person to person. It can be as broad
    as\r\n\r\n\"The classification of art can be applied by the author or viewer past
    or present - any object or concept could be labeled art long as anyone anytime
    believe it so\"\r\n\r\nor as narrow as \r\n\"work by experienced artist with pure
    artistic intention. Status is determined by peers and general public\" \r\n\r\nat
    the end it is just a label. "
  created: '2011-05-19 02:40:50'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "What's art, but a means to pigeon-hole and commodify certain activities that
    don't have immediately obvious commercial value? \r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\nI mean, if
    you have to ask... \r\n\r\nActually, I think it is, but there are others who tend
    to think art with a \"A\" is grander than what a nicely crafted set of glyphs
    can offer.\r\n\r\nin the end, art is a verdict. "
  created: '2011-05-19 02:44:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Debating the term ''art'' is always fun but rarely results in a conclusion. '
  created: '2011-05-19 02:48:06'
- author:
    name: Luma Vine
    picture: 120078
  body: 2nd person singular present indicative of be. I hope that settles it once
    and for all.
  created: '2011-05-19 03:48:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: oh thou art a card.
  created: '2011-05-19 04:18:06'
- author:
    name: Frank ADEBIAYE
    picture: 112491
  body: "Yep, could be :\r\nhttp://www.ae-editions.fr/digital-artists/frank-adebiaye/"
  created: '2011-05-19 05:20:10'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Type design* is art in it's most basic sense: black and white, positive and
    negative, mass and void. And yet ... type is most definitely a tool. It can be
    flawed if it isn't coherent or lacks in technical quality. \r\n\r\n*Designing
    typefaces is not typography."
  created: '2011-05-19 10:52:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Typography and type design are properly Design rather than Art. Of course
    at the same time, Art can repurpose any other discipline, and typography can be
    seen as art by typographers. But for me, type design and typography are responses
    to design questions, fulfilling a brief or seeking to solve aesthetic questions
    with elegance; therefore it's based on a slightly different premise to Art, which
    seems to centre on creating something in itself.
  created: '2011-05-19 11:13:01'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "I think I could agree that typography is more of a science than an art. So
    much of it is objective with defined rights and wrongs. However type design is
    very subjective and an art. What is so right today can be declared so wrong tomorrow,
    but there is never absolute agreement on that by anyone. If type design isn\u2019t
    an art, there would have never been the extended discussion recently on why so
    many people hate Comic Sans. "
  created: '2011-05-19 13:01:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: How can something with no scientific explanation be a science? And how can
    the making of something of transient appearance until it is employed, be art?
  created: '2011-05-19 13:08:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Just take the whole readability/legibility discussion. If it\u2019s science,
    they sure haven\u2019t figured out the basic laws yet."
  created: '2011-05-19 13:24:17'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: 'Type is a kind of raw material.  You could also ask, is making paint art.
    It is an art, but it isn''t art until someone approaches the process with the
    intention of making art. Then <cite>perhaps</cite> it could be art. But then by
    the same token, so could anything. '
  created: '2011-05-19 14:50:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Is cooking an art? When it's done by an artist, it is. Ditto typography...
  created: '2011-05-19 17:05:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I consider typography a craft, like most areas of design. The sole reason
    for that is because they have a functional component as well as an artistic one.
    So by this same criterion the following are crafts and not art as such: architecture,
    clothing design, graphic design, furniture design....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-05-19 17:57:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nI consider crafts to be activities which require a specialized
    skills--such as basketweaving or macram\xE9--which can, at times, produce objects
    of great beauty as well as utility. By your definition, to be considered Art,
    an activity must serve no practical purpose (lacks a \"functional component\"),
    which seems to me to impoverish both Art and ourselves."
  created: '2011-05-19 18:29:42'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Do not go to the Usenet or any forum with questions like "is X an art?", for
    they will say  yes and no and a whole lot of stuff that has nothing to do with
    your question. The only time people will ever agree on art is when it's how-great-thou-art.
  created: '2011-05-19 21:28:52'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>I read a quote (and it's a commonly held belief) that typography is
    best when it functions without being noticed</cite>\r\n\r\nDisagree. Of course
    typography is supposed to be noticed. But in a manner similar to a movie set:
    it's not the focus of the scene, but it enhances what's happening in the foreground.
    And if it's poorly made or inapt, you'll definitely notice. \r\n\r\nThe idea that
    \"printing should be invisible\" is most directly traceable to Beatrice Warde's
    \"Crystal Goblet\" essay from 1955. While the essay has a few good points to make,
    its core premise \u2014 that \"invisibility\" is the defining virtue of typography
    \u2014 is flat wrong. (Wrong on metaphorical grounds too: go to a decent wine
    bar and you'll see crystal goblets of different shapes being used for different
    kinds of wine.) It's long past time for typographers, and typographic educators
    especially, to pour concrete into Warde's \"Goblet\" and toss it overboard.\r\n\r\nSome
    defend Warde by saying that her thesis was not so extreme \u2014 that she only
    meant that typography should be suited to the text. A fine idea, but what part
    of Warde's essay supports this interpretation? If anything, she goes out of her
    way to reinforce the \"invisibility\" theme:\r\n\r\n<cite>But a good speaking
    voice is one which is inaudible as a voice. It is the transparent goblet again!
    I need not warn you that if you begin listening to the inflections and speaking
    rhythms of a voice from a platform, you are falling asleep.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes
    this statement make any sense at all?\r\n\r\nWarde's essay mostly illustrates
    the perils of latching onto an appealing but inapt metaphor: everything you deduce
    from that metaphor will also be wrong."
  created: '2011-05-20 03:08:48'
- author:
    name: BenBowsher
  body: "\"Do not go to the Usenet or any forum with questions like \"is X an art?\",
    for they will say yes and no and a whole lot of stuff that has nothing to do with
    your question. The only time people will ever agree on art is when it's how-great-thou-art.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think it's a healthy debate, wherever it deviates and it's an important discussion
    to keep alive, precisely because it can never be settled."
  created: '2011-05-20 11:57:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I dunno, I still find the \"Crystal Goblet\" essay (actually from 1932) brilliant,
    and pretty useful. Yes, \"go to a decent wine bar and you'll see crystal goblets
    of different shapes being used for different kinds of wine,\" but you won't find
    intricately decorated gold chalices, which was the alternative to crystal with
    which she opened the essay. I would only say that perhaps using \"transparent\"
    in place of \"invisible\" might have made her case more compelling. Transparent
    is, after all, what a crystal goblet is\u2014so my criticism would be that her
    conclusions were poorly worded, but her metaphor actually spot-on."
  created: '2011-05-20 15:20:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think the art/not art question is particularly relevant to typography.\r\n\r\nType
    design is more like Critical Design (as described by Rick Poynor), certainly in
    the respect that a lot of retail fonts are created not according to a client's
    design brief, but address issues which the designer finds significant.\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    operate on many levels.\r\nThe three main ones:\r\n- as tools for typographer,
    graphic designers and art directors to make documents with\r\n- providing the
    visual substance for readers of such documents\r\n- as cultural subject matter\r\n\r\nThis
    last aspect: it's possible to consider typefaces independently of either using
    them to create a document, or reading them as part of a document. Several of the
    typefaces \"acquired\" by MoMA are like that. Beowolf, for instance, is almost
    never seen in commercial work and very few typographers have actually worked with
    it, yet it is quite significant in the sphere of type and design culture.\r\n\r\nAll
    of us here are acquainted with faces which we have not used and have not seen
    used commercially, only in showings provided by foundries and distributors, and
    perhaps discussed in trade media and online blogs and forums.\r\n\r\nI often kid
    myself that my real work concerns not fonts, but type specimens, for these are
    its core substance, where the full scope of typefaces is displayed, and where
    their deep meaning resides. My library of specimens is a great collection, encompassing
    vast realms of history and technology, and many of the specimens are exquisite
    objects, some of which are literature in that special concrete poetry sub-genre.
    \r\n\r\nWhen I create a specimen for my type designs, I work to perfect the specimen
    by perfecting the fonts (or is it vice versa?)\u2014that's as far as I can go.
    Then it's up to those who license the fonts to add another layer of meaning, and
    surprise me by revealing qualities in them, and uses, which I would never have
    expected. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 16:36:03'
- author:
    name: Alex Kaczun
    picture: 114613
  body: "Type Design is ART!\r\nGood typography is ART!\r\nBod typography is ART!\r\nBad
    art is ART!\r\nEverything that enhances the human experiment and our collective
    culture, in any form or in any way, is ART!\r\nPERIOD.\r\nWhy debate the obvious..."
  created: '2011-05-20 17:10:38'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>the \"Crystal Goblet\" essay (actually from 1932)</cite>\r\n\r\nCorrection
    noted, thank you.\r\n\r\n<cite>I would only say that perhaps using \"transparent\"
    in place of \"invisible\" might have made her case more compelling</cite>\r\n\r\nShe
    does use the word \"transparent\" a couple times \u2014\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026\_It
    is the transparent goblet again! \u2026</cite>\r\n<cite>\u2026\_Or he may work
    in what I call transparent or invisible typography. \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nStill
    \u2014 how would \"transparency\" improve the metaphor overall? I understand the
    semantic distinction. But typography is neither invisible nor transparent. Typography
    is expressive. People choose fonts for their expressive qualities, not in spite
    of them.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 17:57:21'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: A great poem or a great play is transparent to the extent that its content
    transcends its form, which is to say that the message, not the medium, is what
    leaves an impression on us. A well-designed book is no different.
  created: '2011-05-20 18:42:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Typography is what it is.  You may choose to define it as simply any use
    of type and let the qualitative aspect of how well it was done determine for your
    own set of values if it is \"Good Enough\" to be called art.  You may also, if
    you wish, change that name to \"typesetting\" and elevate \"typography\" to a
    particular set of the category \"typesetting\" that some people deem as so noteworthy
    in use and design as to elevate it to an art form.  Typically,this sort of thing
    is determined differently depending on point of view.  A Job-shop typesetter from
    the 1950s who makes a living setting type may choose to call himself a craftsman.
    \ A distinguished University professor of design or typography may elevate the
    term to something higher.  A typical reader may not care a hoot about the distinction
    and just read the words. People anoint saints for their own reasons.  The people
    who may have been given that distinction at some point after their death, have
    just done whatever they seemed fit to do without posing the question at all.\r\n\r\nI
    must admit that I do not see Warde's Crystal Goblet analogy as either correct
    or at best incomplete.  I am in the middle of writing something on this so I will
    present that viewpoint later when finished."
  created: '2011-05-20 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "In a lecture a long time ago, Stephen Sondheim said he considered the writing
    of song lyrics for the musical theatre a craft. After all, he said, \"it's so
    small\".\r\nBy \"small\" I think he meant \"constrained at the outset\".\r\nAnd
    that's how I judge the diff between an \"art\" and \"craft\": what are the range
    of possibilities when one starts out? Does the finished work have a functional
    job to do? Or can it simply be whatever it turns out to be?\r\n\r\nDesigning a
    typeface versus writing a novel. Designing a typeface versus painting a piece
    like \"Guernica\".\r\n\r\nIf I had to categorize it - I'd have to say \"craft\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 20:50:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Designing a typeface versus painting a piece like \"Guernica\".</em>\r\n\r\nAlternatively:\r\nPainting
    a picture versus designing a typeface like \"Newspeak\" (which, as with \"Guernica\",
    is politically informed)\r\n\r\n<em>Does the finished work have a functional job
    to do? Or can it simply be whatever it turns out to be?</em>\r\n\r\nAs I noted
    in listing the three main ways in which a typeface may operate, it can do either,
    and even both\u2014which is not something that can be said about most gallery
    art, although \"Guernica\" may also be considered propaganda, and is thus a poor
    example for your theory of art having no function."
  created: '2011-05-20 21:18:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Painting a \"Day-Glo\" Elvis painting on black velvet = ?\r\nDesigning Garamound
    =?\r\n\r\nas soon as we go beyond that step and compare say Munch's \"the Scream\"
    to say Van Gogh's \"Potato Eaters\" we are lost in the never-never world of endless
    loop arguments.\r\n\r\nAt this point, I leave this argument to exactly where it
    has been for Centuries--in the hands of those who care not to give it up.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 21:22:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Painting a "Day-Glo" Elvis painting on black velvet = balls...
  created: '2011-05-20 21:26:21'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "To take it back to the OP's question \u2014\_\"is typography art?\" The question
    is flawed because it presents a false dilemma: either typography is art, or it's
    \"merely functional.\"\r\n\r\nTypography is a medium with expressive capacity.
    Any medium with expressive capacity also has the capacity for art. Many expressive
    media started in functional roles. As the medium branches into more purely expressive
    uses, it doesn't necessarily leave the functional role behind. \r\n\r\nFor instance,
    photography. If I said to you \"is photography art?\", you'd probably say \"which
    photograph are you talking about?\" A product photo in an Ikea catalog? You'd
    probably say no, it's not art. A Cindy Sherman self-portrait? You'd probably say
    yes. A Richard Avedon fashion photo? Hm, could go either way.\r\n\r\nBut whether
    one thinks Ikea vs. Cindy Sherman vs. Richard Avedon deserve to be rated differently
    is not the point. The point is only that there's nothing preventing typography
    from being an art medium.\r\n\r\nSo why don't we see more art typography? It's
    mostly a practical issue: typography is usually in service of a text, which takes
    center stage, so the expressive possibilities of the typography are always taking
    a back seat. Out in the real world, most typography is filling a functional role,
    not an artistic role. But if you look at the work of Jenny Holzer, Marian Bantjes,
    Erik & Just, Rudy & Zuzana (& many others) I think you'll find plenty of material
    that qualifies as both typography and art."
  created: '2011-05-20 22:44:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The same is true of people you never heard of but most people are too afraid
    to stick their neck out and say a person's work is Art unless they are already
    famous for doing that (so there is no danger of looking stupid).\r\n\r\nArt is
    what it is, you may or not agree with that, but that does not change it."
  created: '2011-05-20 23:40:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> either typography is art, or it's \"merely functional.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I'm in a minority on this, but I don't think it is belittling typography to say
    it has a functional component. I find it much more interesting seeing what can
    be done within functional constraints.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I agree that
    perhaps it's a false dichotomy. But I'm not sure I have much interest in debating
    \"Proposed: Anything can be art. Discuss.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2011-05-21 08:11:04'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "Typography can be considered both.\r\n\r\nA picture constructed of only typefaces
    that looks amazing is art.\r\nAn essay filled with Times New Roman (double spaced
    of course) is not art."
  created: '2011-05-21 08:40:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>An essay filled with Times New Roman (double spaced of course) is not
    art.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever\u2026\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/art-lang11_4788.jpg029.jpg]"
  created: '2011-05-21 15:29:23'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>I read a quote (and it's a commonly held belief) that typography is best
    when it functions without being noticed.</em>\r\n\r\nOr as [[http://gmunch.home.pipeline.com/typo-L/misc/ward.htm|Beatrice
    Warde]] said, \"Printing Should Be Invisible.\"\r\n\r\nMaking it invisible is
    an art. If if were naturally invisible, either no one would be an artist or everyone
    with a word processor or a DTP program would be an artist.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-21 18:28:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here we go again. I won't retread every path I\u2019ve taken in previous
    discussions, but I will make a couple of points in brief:\r\n\r\nFor a very long
    time, the words art and craft -- or their equivalent in other languages -- were
    used interchangeably or, rhetorically, to reinforce: \u2018in my craft or sullen
    art\u2019, as Dylan Thomas had it. The word art ultimately implies skilled making,
    the root of artifice and artefact. Personally, I\u2019m pretty content with this
    ancient usage, and don\u2019t feel the need to entangle myself in aesthetic theories
    of expression and response that have to do more with the psychology of the artist
    and the viewer than with the made thing. The made thing has always seemed more
    important to me than the thought and emotion that resulted in it or the thought
    and emotion that is brought to it.\r\n\r\n<em>If,</em> on the other hand, one
    desperately wants to make a distinction between craft and art, then I think the
    objective ground to do so is in terms of art as an extra-utile quality of the
    made thing, i.e. that which makes it not merely functional. From this, as I\u2019ve
    expounded before, flows the observation that almost every human-made thing displays
    some quality of art, some aspect that a) is other than it might have been (i.e.
    form not determined strictly by function), and b) is consciously formed to aesthetic
    purpose (accident or randomness can produce things that are beautiful, moving,
    inspiring, etc. but it isn\u2019t art any more than a rock pleasingly shaped by
    the tides is art). All other grounds of distinction seem to end up in judicial
    debates that seem to me less about what is and isn\u2019t art and more about what
    is good and bad art.\r\n\r\nBut most of the time, I\u2019m content to think of
    type design as my craft or sullen art."
  created: '2011-05-21 19:01:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Printing Should Be Invisible\" but typography need not be invisible to
    either function, not function; be art or not be art. Is everyone who owns a brush
    an artist?  Is all art always done only with typically accepted \"art tools\"?
    If Michaelangelo's David were done by him using power tools instead of hand tools,
    would that remove it from being art?\r\nIf you see typography in a language and
    script that is completely foreign to you, it is doubtful that it would completely
    function as intended in your case. But because it does not function as intended
    for you, does that mean it is either not good typography, not aesthetically pleasing,
    or not art?"
  created: '2011-05-21 19:02:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like to think of type designers as artisans. I'm not sure what you call
    what an artisan makes, but I like the term \"artisan\" because it implies that
    we're making something for use that has an artistic flair\u2014an expressive,
    emotional dimension to it as well as suiting its other purposes. Like pottery.
    \r\n\r\nI forget who, but I read someone saying that \"pure\" art is a mistaken
    notion invented in the 19th century. I'm more and more thinking he or she was
    right. "
  created: '2011-05-22 04:11:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I sometimes categorise myself as an artisan, Bill, but usually only when
    talking with people who know something about labour history and understand what
    the term means in that context, as a category of skilled worker. Otherwise, it
    sounds a bit precious when used in context of digital technology. These days one
    is most likely to come across the term in the context of \u2018artisan cheeses\u2019
    or \u2018artisan breads\u2019, or people who make e.g. custom shoes or gloves:
    all of which are very fine things, but not something with which I feel much affinity
    when producing a font that is going to ship with some hundreds of millions of
    copies of Microsoft Windows."
  created: '2011-05-22 04:58:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I call myself a designer but that is yet a whole new discussion but equally
    doomed to never finding closure.  ;-)
  created: '2011-05-22 05:00:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't know what I am. I don't want to know what I am. I really don't want
    to know what I am. And more than anything, I don't want you to know who I am.\r\n\r\nI
    have made a pledge to live and am attempting to not make a big deal out of it.\r\n\r\nSometimes
    I classify myself as a person totally out of control, living some bizarre remnants
    of my youth, and sometimes I feel really good about what I do. Which part of these
    activities is more heinous escapes me at the moment.\r\n\r\nSo I guess I'm a:\r\ntransgender-sociopath-fixated-sonofanicewoman-flakey-
    dirt - with a penchant for the untoward moment\r\n\r\ni love type and some of
    the discussion that sometimes occurs here - it's still vibrant\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2011-05-22 05:34:56'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: 'If you see typography as something that is beautiful, picturesque, brilliant,
    etc, how is that any different from a painting?  '
  created: '2011-05-22 07:59:54'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "\"Is building with Lego or Meccano art?\" is as valid a question as \"Is
    typography art?\" or any other \"Is X art?\". You can argue about that until your
    face is purple with pink polka dots, but untimately only you can decide for yourself
    (and only for yourself) if it is.\r\n\r\nMany of those who loudly proclaim something
    as art are trying to attract punters to sell either that something or their views
    to.\r\n\r\nAnyways, you lot have a new Iceland eruption to get inspired by: Gr\xEDmsv\xF6tn
    2011."
  created: '2011-05-22 14:30:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I think I was misunderstanding the current usage of \"artisan\", which
    is indeed as you say, emphasizing manual labor. Creating type faces is undoubtedly
    design, as Chris says, and as common usage has it\u2014\"type designer.\" So the
    question of how much type design is art is a question of how much design is art.
    \r\n\r\n\"Design\" does imply creating a template from which many instances are
    produced, as you say. This is as contrasted with a one-off, unique product. [[http://jameskrenov.com/furniture.htm|James
    Krenoff]], a furniture maker I greatly admire, emphasized this difference. He
    kept huge slabs of wood in his shop, planed them, and examined the grain until
    he was inspired to make a particular piece bringing out and taking advantage of
    the beauty of that particular piece of wood. He wanted the piece to show that
    it was from a particular tree, and from a particular hand. He called himself an
    artisan, and consciously tried to provide his customers with a piece of furniture
    that would not be experienced as designed and manufactured, but as one-off and
    personal. Many, me included, would say his pieces are also works of art.    \r\n\r\nI
    just consulted one of my favorite reference books as a writer, [[http://www.amazon.com/Merriam-Webster-Dictionary-Synonyms/dp/0877793417|The
    Merriam Webster Dictionary of Synonyms.]] As the on-line reviews say, this an
    astonishingly good book, too little known. \r\n\r\nI think it clarifies, by going
    into the history of the usage of the word \"art,\" why the discussions of this
    are so endless and futile. The word has different, overlapping meanings, which
    can even be at odds with one another. And this confuses those who try to pin it
    down to one meaning. \r\n\r\nHere is a bit from the article on \"artist\" and
    its synonyms, including \"artisan\":\r\n\r\n\"The earliest and the abiding implication
    of *artist* is skill or proficiency (see \"artist\" under EXPERT); it was in Shakespeare's
    time, and later, applied to anyone who made or did things requiring learning and
    skill; thus a teacher, a philosopher, a physician, a scientist, a chemist, or
    a craftsman was then called an \"artist\". ...Gradually, however, the word became
    associated with those whose aim is to produce something which gives pleasure,
    first with musicians, dancers, actors, and the like, and later with poets, painters,
    and sculptors. The two ideas of skill and the aim to give pleasure were combined,
    so that since the early nineteenth century, \"artist,\" (when it does not mean
    specifically a painter) is usually applied to a gifted person who works in the
    fine arts, and especially one who reveals his skill, taste, and power to create
    beautiful things.\"\r\n\r\nI think this clarifies the usage of \"art\" in relation
    to type design. When a design is particularly skilled, beautiful, or moving, such
    as the works of Garamond or Bodoni, we tend to call it a work of art. How to define
    or explain the aesthetic dimension is a thorny psychological and philosophical
    issue, but at least this clarifies the usage: When a type face is particularly
    beautiful or moving, it can appropriately be called a work of art by those who
    love type.  \r\n\r\n      "
  created: '2011-05-22 15:45:48'
- author:
    name: krispfonts
    picture: 122690
  body: of course it is, anything that requires creativity is an art
  created: '2011-05-22 15:57:32'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>\"Design\" does imply creating a template from which many instances
    are produced</cite>\r\n\r\nThough there are plenty of fine artists who work in
    multiples (e.g., printmakers) and plenty of designers who work in singletons (e.g.,
    architects)."
  created: '2011-05-22 16:43:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"Design\" does imply creating a template from which many instances are
    produced, as you say.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's only one implication.\r\nIndustrial design
    for mass production is certainly design, but so is an architect designing the
    plan (template) for a one-off building.\r\n\r\nSurely the implication of design
    is that one creates an interim plan or template for a product that someone else
    may finish. \r\nOr oneself, if one likes to plant and care for one's own garden.\r\n\r\nSo
    designing a typeface, one designs and crafts glyphs that will combine nicely with
    each other, when the font is put to use to create typography. That's what I like
    best about type design, that the design and the craft (and the art) are so fundamentally
    entangled. Art used to be like that.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, a graphic designer creates
    artwork (a file) that may be output by someone else, even if there will be only
    one instance\u2014a large sign or banner, for instance, or a presentation book.\r\n\r\nArt
    directors and artists may also work like this.\r\nRodin, for instance, would make
    a small maquette, and his foundry (love that word) would scale it up and mass
    produce it.\r\nMany artists today are not makers. Jeff Koons posed for and art
    directed his porno series, but he didn't shoot it. Similarly, in a recent exhibit
    curated as \"the artist as celebrity\", it was interesting to see a collection
    of ads featuring Andy Warhol; the concept and art direction (design) of which
    was created by George Lois\u2014an art director who was something of a celebrity,
    but not enough to warrant mention by the curator.\r\n\r\nA musical score is also
    design, by another name.\r\n\r\nStoryboards, as used in motion pictures and advertisements,
    are also design.\r\nFilming and editing are more art and craft, when one or more
    shots are shot and cut (dissolved, etc.) together in such a way as to combine
    nicely according to the plan. Somewhat like typography interpreting a layout design.
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-22 17:48:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Matthew, Nick, you're right, of course, that design can involve a one-off
    thing, a building. Krenov was relating to furniture production, where there are
    many copies involved, and it is impossible to have the intimate relation to organic
    materials that he had with creating his furniture. \r\n\r\nI think that one of
    the things which normally characterizes design is that the plan is more clearly
    separated from the execution than in an individual work of art. Of course one
    of the features of design, probably the defining one, is goals other than aesthetic
    ones. \r\n\r\nIn this sense I'm not sure whether \"design\" fits writing a song
    or symphony. There the performance is separated from the score, but the goal is
    often more purely aesthetic. In movies you have \"sound design\" which is suiting
    the sound and I believe music to the visuals in a movie. In sound design, the
    sound and music are clearly subordinate to the goal of telling the story with
    emotional impact. In a song or symphony there is not usually such subordination.
    \r\n\r\nIn the case of type design, the type face is only fully realized later
    in the work of those who use it in print or on screen. And I agree with you Nick
    that one of the delights of type design is its mixture of design, art and craft. "
  created: '2011-05-22 18:13:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>In this sense I'm not sure whether \"design\" fits writing a song
    or symphony.</em>\r\n\r\nAlthough it isn\u2019t common usage, I  think the concept
    of design can easily be applied to the overall structure of a piece of music.
    A fairly typical\u2014if not definitive\u2014aspect of design is that it can be
    schematised or abstracted in a diagram. A three-verse-bridge-two-verse song structure
    isn't a complex scheme, but it is still a scheme and provides a design framework
    for the artistic creativity of the melody and lyrics; obviously a symphonic work
    is usually much richer and multilayered in this regard, and more likely to have
    a unique structure, but that structure can be diagrammed, and the diagram reveals
    the design thinking of the composer.\r\n\r\n<em>There the performance is separated
    from the score, but the goal is often more purely aesthetic.</em>\r\n\r\nBringing
    this back to typography, Tom Milo sometimes uses a musical metaphor when explaining
    how an Arabic calligrapher \u2018performs\u2019 the \u2018score\u2019 (text) with
    a particular \u2018instrument\u2019 (script style). This metaphor provides the
    model for what Tom\u2019s Arabic engine and fonts seek to make available to typographers:
    a kind of synthesiser by which someone who lacks the manual virtuosity of the
    calligrapher can make performance choices within the range of the synthesised
    instrument."
  created: '2011-05-22 19:32:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ok, I'm seeing that design, like art has at least two different dimensions\u2014the
    aspect of serving a practical goal other than an aesthetic one, and the usual
    separation between the plan and the final product. \r\n\r\nSome works of art,
    in the sense of being purely aesthetic in their goals, also may involve planning
    and execution by another person, though this seems to be less often true. They
    don't have the practical goal. \r\n\r\nThe question in my mind is whether the
    purely aesthetic goal is a real one. R.G. Collingwood, in his book Principles
    of Art argues the entertainment is a degraded goal, that is a corruption of art.
    But I wonder whether fine art itself is corrupted by pretending that it does not
    have the practical goal of entertainment, however high minded and entertainment
    that may be. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 01:01:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "1. An individual must first decide if art to them is an achievement of a
    quality beyond or despite of the initial intent of the work (meaning that however
    or for what ever reasons, a given thing can be deemed Art).  This would lead them
    down the path towards \"there is no such thing as bad art\" because it is a state
    unto itself. With this direction, the distinction of \"art' is bestowed by perceivers
    of the work and that agreement on the distinction is quite up for disagreement.
    \ You may choose whomsoever you like as an accredited bestower or bestowers of
    that honor (again opening the door for endless debate).\r\n2. Another way to view
    it is that anything that is claimed to be art by anyone is art but you have the
    broadest qualitative expression of things from the very poorest art to the very
    best art. This again leaves room for a lifetime of debate. This goes along with
    the title \"Artist\".  If everyone who professes to be an artist is an artist
    no matter how badly they may fail at making things or experiences you or anyone
    else might care to endure.  But with this way of seeing, being an artist is determined
    quite simply in the attempt, just like being a cab driver, dish washer, or tele-marketer.\r\n\r\nUsing
    the first argument, we can say that anything can be considered \"art\" including
    typography or rotting fish if the perceiver or their duly self-appointed \"Authority\"
    deems it so.  The inevitable battle ensues in the case of multiple perceivers
    and multiple authorities debating the achievement.\r\n\r\nUsing the second argument,
    everything that intends to be art qualifies as art with the inevitable battle
    being moved now to the level of agreement on qualitative achievement. In this
    case, you can also continue the fight in the arena of endeavors which may qualify
    as being bona-fide pursuits of art.  You may have a nice tidy short list that
    represents only the most limited few: Painting, sculpture, drawing, music composition,
    creative writing, or choreography. You may then decide you should include performances
    of these works as art if you so desire.  You then add actors,musicians, dancers
    individual acts as qualifying as well, as the initial set of producers. Having
    done that, you now have even more battles to argue about as in: If Puccini's writing
    of La Boheme is a work of art with Pavorati as Rhodalfo is it still a work of
    art if it were instead performed by the guy who does the Aflak duck voice? Now
    we get to argue about a work of art transcending its performance or a performance
    transcending the level of the work performed.\r\n\r\nFrom there we can go back
    and fight over the inclusion of architecture as an art form along with sculpture
    or other disciplines such as graphic design, type design, typesetting or art direction
    in an ad firm being blessed with inclusion.  We can then expand this to everything
    from basket weaving to regurgitation if that pleases anyone.\r\n\r\nHowever we
    try to limit the designation of art, we open ourselves to endless debate with
    no possible agreement at the end.  Those who enjoy the pursuit will continue as
    humankind has for centuries and those who find the engagements tiring may move
    on to other activities. For me, I just make stuff without pretense of art or grandeur.
    \ If someone at some point decides something I have done is worthy of the \"A
    Word\", that is their choice.  If a few others care to argue that person's pronouncement,
    that is their choice.  I will just continue \"making stuff\" just as before but
    I might find some amusement in hearing the debate ;-)\r\n\r\nEither art is what
    it is or it is an argument waiting to happen."
  created: '2011-05-23 03:26:43'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: Time to move on to whether a tomato is a fruit or a vegetable?
  created: '2011-05-23 13:33:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Obviously a tomato is both a fruit and a vegetable, and the question only
    arises because of a confusion of categories. Fruit is a botanical term and vegetable
    is a culinary term. There is some common overlap of these terms, insofar as fruit
    also has a distinct culinary meaning, and all inanimate organic matter is vegetable,
    but with regard to the tomato the usage is clear: fruit is how it grows, vegetable
    is how it is used in the kitchen.\r\n\r\nNext."
  created: '2011-05-23 18:49:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>However we try to limit the designation of art, we open ourselves to
    endless debate with no possible agreement at the end. </em>\r\n\r\nIsn't that
    the whole point of this thread? The conversation is lively, and a lot more worthwhile
    than, say, this thread... http://www.typophile.com/node/82379"
  created: '2011-05-23 19:59:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'There was something wrong with my identifying the pleasure that art is intended
    to give with "entertainment." [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bdEBO_1oK_g&feature=youtu.be|This
    interview with Wynton Marsalis]] puts his finger on it: art is uplifting. The
    goals is not just diversion.'
  created: '2011-06-01 23:20:53'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "John Hudson's point about someone who makes custom items (shoes, gloves etc.),
    and his disconnect due to \"producing a font that is going to ship with some hundreds
    of millions of copies of Microsoft Windows\" was particularly interesting to me.\r\n\r\nComing
    from a background in which I spent several years apprenticing as a bespoke tailor,
    I can say that both trades have this same feeling associated with them (at least
    it's felt by those in the trades). When we would have a client who would demand
    some ugly detailing or fabric choice - despite our pleads - we would still make
    the garments with the same care as if it were a beautiful pairing of design and
    fabric. The same, I suspect, is true when one would be designing a typeface with
    which they feel very little emotional connection.\r\n\r\nI've always separated
    art into two categories: \"art\" and \"Art\". The latter is that in which the
    item that is produced is the end goal - a painting or a sculpture for instance
    - while \"art\" is used to describe the craft put into something which will function
    in a role outside of its own aesthetic qualities (type, tailoring, welding, etc),
    and fulfill a need.\r\n\r\nThough \"fulfilling a need\" may seem strong, I've
    chosen it because, while one could go to any Wal-Mart and buy clothing, those
    who appreciate and can afford the means would go to a tailor. The same is true
    of type design; those who appreciate type would be more likely to venture outside
    the realm of pre-installed fonts.\r\n\r\nI have more thoughts on the subject but
    I think this is enough of an idea for now."
  created: '2011-06-02 01:43:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Art should not have to either entertain or uplift.  It may just as well just
    cause one to ponder for whatever reason, it could even make a viewer uneasy or
    even feel provoked.  I would just say that \"Art\" should evoke some human feeling
    beyond \"I like it\" or \"That is pretty\" or \"That would look good with my sofa\".
    \r\nFor me, the Big A \"Art\" requires something or other transferred from artwork
    to viewer that elevates it beyond the merely benign, beyond just functional (without
    functional being ether required or dismissed), beyond just aesthetically pleasing.
    \ The problem for me is, that if I could define what that \"something\" is it
    would be so limiting as to destroy the value of the definition.  Therefore, I
    submit only that \"Art is What it is\" and no amount of laboring over a universal
    definition would get one closer to the \"Truth\" than just letting it be what
    it is. Either way agreement will not happen--even though, through discussion,
    we may become more cognizant of what others may feel about what Art is to them."
  created: '2011-06-02 04:18:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "James: <em>Coming from a background in which I spent several years apprenticing
    as a bespoke tailor, I can say that both trades have this same feeling associated
    with them (at least it's felt by those in the trades).</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I think
    there is a similar feeling or sense in the making, but a kind of cognitive 'wobble'
    in the realisation that this thing that you are engaged with as a craft work is
    going to be experienced by others as something like a mass consumer product."
  created: '2011-06-02 04:42:03'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "Every profession has that same concept, I think. \r\n\r\nFor example, the
    machines that can convert a piece of aluminum into a filled can of pepsi are things
    that I would likely never be able to engineer or appreciate on the same level
    as those that are involved in its creation. Yet its product is something one could
    buy and enjoy without ever once considering that there is an amount of craft and
    \"art\" that goes into the creation of their beverage.\r\n\r\nI would guess that
    99% of people wouldn't be able to spot a bespoke suit from a Men's Warehouse suit.
    That doesn't take away from the skill that went into it. If I wear a sportcoat
    I spent months making out to a social event, I wouldn't expect anyone to recognize
    the cut or the fit or any aesthetic aspects. If one went out in a terribly made
    and poorly fitting coat, it would attract attention (not in a positive way); the
    same holds true to type.\r\n\r\nI would guess that most people don't choose careers
    that are craft based for the purpose of making everyone appreciate the skill. "
  created: '2011-06-02 05:10:40'
date: '2011-05-19 01:13:53'
node_type: forum
title: Is typography an Art?

---
