---
author:
  name: mike gastin
  picture: 110273
body: Greetings All ~ <BR> <BR>I seem to remember some time last year there was a
  thread around what fonts should be included in a basic collection - the must have
  workhorses. <BR> <BR>Does anyone remember this? I have done a quick search but could
  not find the original discussion. Can anyone help with a link to the thread? <BR>
  <BR>I want to embark on cleaning out my firm&#39;s 30 year old font collection -
  there is so much 80&#39;s crap in there it is killing me! I thought the Typophile
  tread I am asking about would be a good place to start research on replacements.
  <BR> <BR>Thanks <BR> <BR>Mike
comments:
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Nick Shinn has a great <a href="http://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/PerfcSet.pdf">essay
    on the Perfect Set</a>, although it would be nice to have it updated to reflect
    possible candidates from the last couple of years.
  created: '2004-12-18 17:59:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Interesting article, Steve! Although Nick&#39;s ideas are correct, I don&#39;t
    think that the typefaces he selected make a perfect group. But alot of that is
    subjective. Just because there would be almost no overlap between his list of
    the 22-must-have-fonts and mine &#40;if I were to make a list&#41; doesn&#39;t
    mean that his selection is incorrect in-and-of-itself. <BR> <BR>Aside from the
    article&#39;s being a tad stylistically and theoretically out of date, the one
    thing that requires re-evaluation is his comment about OpenType. Now, almost every
    major graphic application supports OpenType, or will support OpenType in the next
    version &#40;Macromedia products being the exception&#41;. And, most type foundries
    seem committed to the idea of future OpenType development, including OpenType-only
    development, even if they aren&#39;t on that road yet. I think that it is same
    to bet that OpenType is the near and middle term future. In any event, OpenType
    isn&#39;t GX, and PostScript support will slowly soon disappear. <BR> <BR>Mike,
    what is your definition of 80s crap?
  created: '2004-12-18 18:55:11'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: '&#34;Mike, what is your definition of 80s crap?&#34; <BR> <BR>I thought that
    might draw a question or two. Basicly, display stuff like Papyrus and the like.
    <BR> <BR>Not only is our collection full of stuff like that, but also old and
    incomplete faces. <BR> <BR>I feel like it is time for some spring cleaning. &#40;Of
    course we are just heading into winter!&#41; <BR> <BR>Mike'
  created: '2004-12-18 22:44:48'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Steve, <BR> <BR>Thanks for the link to Nick&#39;s article! I know I read this
    a while back, but it is a good place to start. <BR> <BR>With regard to comments
    around the information being a bit dated - anyone willing to offer their current
    &#39;must haves&#39;? <BR> <BR>Mike
  created: '2004-12-18 22:47:19'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: I&#39;ve always wanted adobe&#39;s <a href="http://store.adobe.com/store/products/master.jhtml?id=catFontFolio">font
    folio</a>
  created: '2004-12-19 04:36:24'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Wow! That&#39;s a lot of bread
  created: '2004-12-19 04:44:24'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: i think rather than certain faces, it&#39;s more important to have certain
    types of faces. I mean the perfect set would be different for a newspaper than
    from a magazine or a design firm. But I think a solid set should include a serif
    family &#40;or 2 or 3&#41; with all the bells and whistles, an extensive sans
    family, and a handful of display faces incuding a formal script, a blackletter,
    and others as needed. I think Scala and Scala Sans are excelent choices and a
    solid foundation from which to build.
  created: '2004-12-19 06:18:22'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: 'not sure if this was the thread you were alluding to, but worth reading over:
    <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/25316.html?1077156970"
    target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/25316.html?1077156970</a>'
  created: '2004-12-19 06:38:52'
- author:
    name: asur
  body: Paul, that is a really great thread! I read it with great interest. I was
    also reading the thread as an artist in a garret using antiquated, but usable,
    hardware and software &#40;ca 1998&#41; to make creations, usually literary or
    literary-like. Especially fetching was Adam Twardoch&#39;s suggestion to get Corel
    Draw 9, with its &#34;incredible collection of fonts&#34;, including many from
    Bitstream and URW. It is available on eBay, currently, in a package called &#34;Essentials&#34;,
    though I&#39;m not sure that includes all those fonts. Anyway, I&#39;d love to
    hear any further recommendations or suggestions for the solo expressor of modest
    means.
  created: '2004-12-28 00:12:26'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'I agree with Paul that it&#39;s a good idea to have a solid set of serif
    and sans serif typefaces in your collection. The typefaces you collect definitely
    depend on what you are using them for. In my collection, Goudy is a staple - it&#39;s
    a beautiful typeface. I also tend to like big families so I use Eurostile, Eras,
    Futura and Fenice quite regularly. This thread might work well as a question:
    &#34;If you were confined to a dessert island, which 5 fonts would you bring with
    you?&#34;'
  created: '2004-12-28 01:40:38'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: on a dessert island huh? <BR>i dunno about 5, but Jason Walcott&#39;s <a href="http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=JBT0000073"
    target="_blank">Confectioner</a> would be one of them! <BR>&#40;sorry, i couldn&#39;t
    help myself!&#41;
  created: '2004-12-28 01:53:37'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Ugh...desert... sorry - must&#39;ve been hungry when I typed that one out!
    Sheesh!
  created: '2004-12-29 00:34:55'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Alejandro Paul&#39;s font <a href="http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000092"
    target="_blank">Mr Leopolde</a> is a beautiful script font. You have to have a
    good script font in your collection '
  created: '2004-12-29 00:45:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Mike, it sounds like you&#39;re looking to get modern workhorses rather than
    &#39;the old standby&#39; workhorses. Is that right? <BR> <BR>By the way, I think
    Scala and Scala Sans are an excellent choice, I use them for my own stuff. I&#39;d
    also suggest Minion, if you don&#39;t have it already. It&#39;s not a rockstar,
    but it&#39;s a very solid and extensive family.
  created: '2004-12-29 01:35:25'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Hey, Chris -  <BR> <BR>Yes, modern. We have Minion. Right now that and Frutiger
    are our corp faces. We have a number of the classics which I intend to keep, such
    as Garamond and the gang. But, I would like to aquire a foundation of great modern
    faces that could provide for most design challenges and give us some fresh type
    type to work with. <BR> <BR>Mike
  created: '2004-12-29 12:43:29'
- author:
    name: andreas_vogel
  body: Well, I think that you cannot really claim this or that font as elementary.
    <BR> <BR>There are too many functions type has to provide. For example, do you
    need only a western character set, or also a CE version of the font? Or maybe
    a greek/cyrillic charset is needed as well? Would you use it for a newspaper or
    could it appear on a 30 square metre banner? <BR> <BR>For display fonts I think
    it is even harder to tell, not only because taste differs, but also because their
    impressiveness narrows their application much more than it would for a sans serif.
    Except if your basic font set includes 3.000 fonts...  ;-&#41; <BR> <BR>To me,
    it is important that a font includes many styles and characters to be applicable
    to &#40;almost&#41; every possibility that could turn up, especially if I would
    use it as a basic or even a corporate font. Someone who has to design for print
    and screen as a whole would end up with a totally different list.&#60;/font&#62;
  created: '2004-12-29 18:04:26'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Andreas, <BR> <BR>I agree - I am not trying to find one face that does it
    all. I feel free enough to use whatever face gets the job done correctly. But,
    that siad, I want to build a library that provides a good foundation taht we can
    build off of as needed. <BR> <BR>Mike
  created: '2004-12-31 19:23:32'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: If you&#39;re looking for some classics, i must suggest taking a look at the
    newly remastered lanston releases from p22. <a href="http://www.p22.com/lanston/"
    target="_blank">http://www.p22.com/lanston/</a>
  created: '2004-12-31 19:30:37'
- author:
    name: andreas_vogel
  body: Mike, you&#39;re right of course. I just wanted to show up these aspects,
    apart from the &#34;look&amp;feel&#34; of fonts.  <BR> <BR>But talking about fonts,
    what about Rotis? The Sans looks not that plain to me as most of the others sans
    serifs do, and the font is not used that often like Helvetica. TheSans is another
    favourite to me, with many styles &#40;even italic caps&#41;. <BR> <BR>As for
    serifs, Venetian looks quite elegant, I think.
  created: '2005-01-03 11:19:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;theoretically out of date, <BR> <BR>In what way Dan? <BR>My theory is
    stated in six principles on page one of the article, and I go on to explain why
    using these principles to build an educational font library will lead students
    towards typographic literacy. <BR> <BR>I took particular care to debunk the &#34;single
    source, one volume&#34; strategy.  <BR> <BR>I mentioned the alternate minimalist
    approach. <BR> <BR>What new theories &#40;or refinements&#41; of library-building
    have emerged since 2001?  <BR> <BR>&#40;OpenType would certainly throw a wrench
    into the calculations, but it doesn&#39;t effect the theory.&#41; <BR> <BR>&#62;a
    lot of that is subjective.  <BR> <BR>Of course. All choice is. But the set I selected
    was primarily determined by having to fit the criteria of my principles &#40;as
    well as a fixed budget&#41; -- so I ended up choosing many faces which I no longer
    favor personally, such as Adobe Garamond, and others which I have never taken
    to, such as Matrix. <BR> <BR>For a working professional, a more subjective &#34;Perfect
    Set&#34; than the one I proposed to a college would be easier to work with, although
    of necessity conscientious designers often end up making aesthetic choices tailored
    to the projects they&#39;re working on, not their own tastes. <BR> <BR>One omission
    in the article is that, although the exercise was conducted to a budget, the final
    total is never mentioned! It was $11,800 &#40;Canadian&#41;, for a 50-user licence.
    That was in 2001.  <BR> <BR>If you are really serious about the subject of this
    thread, and not just fantasizing about desires, ya gotta do the math!'
  created: '2005-01-03 14:52:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: OK, here are my reactions, noted as I go through the article. My big &#34;theory&#34;
    thing is the way you talk about revivals, but that will come out in the following
    text! <BR> <BR>1. I agree that students need to be exposed to the exemplars of
    each genr
  created: '2005-01-03 15:53:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '1. Frutiger preferable to Myriad, yes, but far too expensive. The full Myriad
    family was, at the time, way less expensive than any other of the full-family
    sans serif options. <BR> <BR>2. I recommended Times New Roman, as a better cut
    of Times than the default system font. About the Canon: my principle was to include
    examples of a full range of contemporary relevant genres for students to work
    with -- Garamond, Times, and Century &#40;aka Worldwide&#41; were the classic
    serif faces. It would have been nice to also include a Didone, that is the biggest
    gap, I think, in the selection. Bear in mind that this is a working tools selection,
    not a type-history selection. <BR> <BR>3. Zapfino and Hoefler Text: my principles
    state that in order not to confuse students, there should be a limited number
    of fonts, one example of each major genre, and not typefaces that are quite close.
    Snell is the fine classic script, and Adobe Garamond is the Garamond. <BR> <BR>4.
    You are agreeing with what I wrote: I did actually mention the 1920s hot-metal
    Baskerville revival, as well as the ITC. <BR> <BR>5. Mrs Eaves: as I said, Adobe
    Garamond was chosen as the classic small x-height face with all the bells and
    whistles.  <BR> <BR>6. Do the math. The Myriad package was &#40;at the time&#41;
    by far the best deal for a full-family sans. <BR> <BR>7. The Myriad package was
    not MM -- it was a collection of instances. <BR> <BR>8. Student discounts: things
    have changed, and much is negotiable. At the time, and working with FontShop Canada
    &#40;no longer a franchise&#41;, there wasn&#39;t too much of a discount for colleges.
    <BR> <BR>9. It&#39;s more important to give students the opportunity to work with
    fonts in a wide range of contemporary, relevant genres &#40;including a few classic
    serifed faces&#41;, than it is to bore the pants off them with fancy theoretical
    distinctions between historical/national sub-genres &#40;I&#39;ve tried that,
    and it creates a very bad vibe -- leave it for the MA!&#41; BTW, I am no big fan
    of patriotism &#40;I mentioned it somewhat tongue-in-cheek&#41;, but yes, supporting
    your local type designers is a worthy cause. <BR> <BR>10. The Chalet styles: 60
    does Helvetica/AG; 70 does Pump/Bauhaus; 80 does Avant Garde/Futura. In three
    weights, that&#39;s an excellent deal and a good way to cover the basics, the
    theme of this thread. Also, Chalet begs the Post-modern question of just how rational
    the modern movement was, and how much it was about cool, understated style: a
    good question to ask, especially in school. <BR> <BR>11. Officina is more &#34;technical&#34;
    than Meta. Note letterforms of cap I and l, and the open fit. Perhaps DIN would
    be another choice to &#34;cover this base&#34;. <BR> <BR>Dan, you can pick away
    at the details of my selection, but I challenge you to produce your own &#34;Perfect
    Set&#34; under similar budgetary constraint.'
  created: '2005-01-03 17:57:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: <i>&#62;Dan, you can pick away at the details of my selection, but I challenge
    you to produce your own &#34;Perfect Set&#34; under similar budgetary constraint.</i>
    <BR> <BR>OK NIck, you&#39;re on. I&#39;ll show you my list in London, and then
    post it. Like you, I&#39;ll include a plethora of foundries and styles. Although,
    I don&#39;t have any &#42;Canadian&#42; allegiences
  created: '2005-01-03 18:13:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'I rechecked: $12,568 Canadian. <BR>Equals $10,444 U.S., or '
  created: '2005-01-03 18:41:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: OK.
  created: '2005-01-03 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: '<a href="http://fontbureau.com/fonts/Whitman">Whitman</a> is a wonderful
    family I wholeheartedly recommend. Its weights and styles are geared towards book
    typography, but it is a pleasure to use in any setting. <BR> <BR>FYI: <a href="http://currentconfig.com/archives/000024.html">A
    lengthier description of Whitman</a>'
  created: '2005-01-04 16:25:27'
- author:
    name: leonpmc
  body: 'Regarding must-have fonts: the Berthold library, many of which were developed
    during the eighties and sold through Adobe in the 90&#39;s, are still widely used
    in a variety of compelling applications. These remarkably versatile gems include
    Berthold&#39;s Poppyl Pontifex, Waldbaum, Garamond, Concorde, Formata, City, Azkidenz
    Grotesk, and Baskerville Book. I would include all of these on a list of must-have
    typefaces, even with the plethora of outstanding faces that have been developed
    since. <BR> <BR>Other must-have faces would include Din, Meta, FF Bau, FF Unit,
    Copperplate Gothic, Sabon, Gil Sans, Jenson, Fairfield, Octavian, and Transit
    &#40;originally developed for Berlin&#39;s public transportation system; too bad
    we don&#39;t see much of it in the U.S.&#41;. Remember, too, that Adobe&#39;s
    flagship fonts during the era of Multiple Master technology were Minion and Myriad,
    and these faces set the stage for further directions from a variety of talented
    sources. They are still widely used today, for good reason. <BR> <BR>Looking at
    the choices made by designers these days, I see a lot of intriguing new fonts
    from Dutch foundries &#40;primarily used in Europe, unfortunately&#41;, and lots
    of well known faces who&#39;ve survived the rigours of style, including Chapparal,
    Trade Gothic, Frutiger, and even Engravers. I know I&#39;m omitting a thousand
    more, but these are being successfully applied in important work and deserve recognition,
    and inclusion, in a working library.'
  created: '2005-01-05 06:55:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Mike, why workhorses? <BR> <BR>Is that any way to treat your clients? <BR>
    <BR>Surely a unique team of thoroughbreds for each client, acquired on demand,
    would be a better idea. <BR> <BR>And why stop there when you can commission a
    type designer to genetically engineer something really special?!
  created: '2005-01-05 16:32:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Thoroughbreds tire easily. And a camel might not win any Western beauty pageants,
    but please don&#39;t try a Clydesdale in the Gobi. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2005-01-05 16:40:10'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: Nick - you have a great point ... gee, wonder where I could find a type designer
    to make me something special? <BR> <BR>Seriously, we do acquire as needed for
    projects. Our problem is that we have been acquiring fonts since the beginning
    of digitization. &#40;The studio has been around for s few years&#41; and there
    is a lot of dross in the collection. <BR> <BR>I just want to weed out and then
    I got thinking that I wanted to scrap the collection and start fresh. <BR> <BR>I
    will most likely weed it out aggressively, add a few new faces like Whitman &#40;good
    suggestion Chris!&#41; or the Scala family and then grow the collection as projects
    demand solutions. <BR> <BR>BTW, Nick, I loved your article! <BR> <BR>Mike
  created: '2005-01-06 03:51:06'
- author:
    name: myoung
    picture: 110072
  body: Interesting article Mr. Shinn. It will be interesting to see what Dan Reynolds
    comes up with using the same priorities for selecting the set.  I look forward
    to reading his list and reading any discussion surrounding it. <BR> <BR>oh, and
    I was wondering when you are returning to Toronto?  I understand you are a member
    of the type club, and I would be interested in hearing you speak sometime or just
    saying Hi.
  created: '2005-01-06 05:37:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Mike. Mr Young -- yes, I&#39;m looking forward to seeing Dan&#39;s
    set. I will be returning to T.O. next Fall, although I am flirting with the idea
    of living somewhere different every year &#40;have iBook and broadband access,
    will travel&#41;.
  created: '2005-01-06 10:01:57'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: You ever make it over to rochester? Its just a Fast Ferry ride over the lake.
    Well, it was for a week or two before the ferry went bankrupt! <BR> <BR>Mike
  created: '2005-01-06 23:47:45'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: rochester? we&#39;re neighbors! altho i just moved here to buffalo myself.
  created: '2005-01-07 00:33:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Mike, &#39;fraid I haven&#39;t been to Rochester since TypeCon2001. <BR>I&#39;m
    spending most of this year in the UK, maybe will pop over later on. <BR>I expect
    the ferry will be resurrected. Presumably the creditors of the firm that went
    bankrupt acquired it, and will sell it off for a lot less than it cost, with its
    faults fixed, and with an adequate terminal in Toronto sorted out.
  created: '2005-01-07 15:16:43'
- author:
    name: toad42
    picture: 112442
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nDo you have any interest in updating The Perfect Set? It would
    be interesting to preserve the existing essay as a snapshot in time and to create
    a second edition that addresses those same core requirements taking advantage
    of the many options available today."
  created: '2010-12-16 20:51:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "No I don't.\r\nIt was a lot of work doing the research and writing and designing
    the article.\r\nI stopped writing for magazines five years ago, and try and concentrate
    on making fonts these days.\r\nI also had the advantage of advice from David Michaelides
    at FontShop Toronto, which is no more.\r\nNow, I would have to pick someone else's
    brains.\r\nBut surely some educators somewhere have been tasked with doing something
    similar for their design schools?\r\nHow have they chosen the fonts their students
    get to set?"
  created: '2010-12-16 23:56:18'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Liked the article Nick. A keeper, still.
  created: '2010-12-18 13:49:18'
date: '2004-12-18 15:50:06'
title: Must Have Collection

---
