---
author:
  name: jdaw1
  picture: 120247
body: "<strong>Introduction</strong>\r\nAt port tastings we always use placemats,
  to label glasses, and for the other paperwork that helps run a confusion-free tasting.\r\n\r\nBehold
  the <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf\">draft placemats for
  a tasting on 11th October</a>. Observe the background digits, \u201C66\u201D on
  the second page, currently set in FusiThinNormal, and outlined by my <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/papers/placemat/placemat.html\">PostScript
  code</a> (with <code>clip</code> \u2026 <code>stroke</code>).\r\n\r\n<strong>Good
  features</strong>\r\n\u2022 Tall, such that two adjacent digits have a bounding
  box in the ratio of A4 less 30pt margins. \r\n\u2022 Sans-serif, so not fussy in
  this background role.\r\n\u2022\_The neck of the six climbs diagonally, rather than
  the cluttered look of a vertical then curve.\r\n\r\n<strong>Bad features</strong>\r\n\u2022
  Near the bottom of the inside curve of the 6, a control point is wrong.\r\n\r\n<strong>Request</strong>\r\nCan
  any readers suggest a better tall sans-serif font with good digits?\r\n\r\nI am
  willing to pay a modest fee for a typeface, though obviously prefer free. However,
  the typeface must be accessible from PostScript, and must be embeddable within PDF."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm assuming you realize that the severe squooshing makes the numerals in
    the draft very uncomfortable - that's at least as bad as the bad node in the \"6\".\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure people can suggest good fonts* with narrow numerals and the diagonal-style
    \"6\" and \"9\", and I can see that budget is an issue, but to me this is crying
    out for custom numerals! Something that will make people think \"port\". Please
    feel free to contact me if you'd like to discuss pricing for such custom work:
    hpapazian at gmail dot com\r\n\r\n* I might suggest you try Tarzana Narrow.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I have to think that Times-Bold (for the large code in the middle) is sort of
    pedestrian in this context, especially since you're resorting to the classiness
    of Greek letters. What would be ideal is to make the font both more expressive
    and harmonious with the large two-digit background numbers.\r\n\r\nLastly, although
    I do see the clever circular ring of text all around the placemats, it might be
    useful to make the central large code also readable from more than one viewpoint;
    maybe have three (two would be less balanced) copies of the code pointing in 120
    degree steps.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-20 23:21:26'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Thank you for the prompt reply. Lots to say.\r\n\r\n\u2022 \u201Csquooshing\u201D!
    I admit to using slightly different font sizes for different digits, to make them
    the same height, but for each digit the x and y sizes are the same. Squoosh-free!\r\n\r\n\u2022
    My limited experience of these matters suggests that there is likely to be great
    conflict between \u201Cbudget is an issue\u201D and \u201Ccustom\u201D.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    I took a screen-shot of a <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/fontpage.php?PTarNR.html\">web
    example of Tarzana Narrow Regular</a>, and moved things. A tightly spaced \u201C66\u201D
    was square. But A4 less my default margins has a ratio about 111:76, far from
    square. Or are you suggesting that I do some \u201Csquooshing\u201D?\r\n\r\n\u2022
    \u201CTimes-Bold \u2026 is \u2026 pedestrian\u201D. Well, yes. But it does have
    two-and-a-half advantages.\r\n1. It has matching lower-case Greek letters. \r\n2.
    It is free. \r\n2\xBD. I won\u2019t offend any Port drinkers, who are, by nature,
    conservative creatures.\r\n\r\n\u2022 There is no need to \u201Cmake the central
    large code also readable from more than one viewpoint\u201D. I sit in front of
    my own glasses. Everybody else sits in front of their own, which are arranged
    identically. (E.g., <a href=\"http://www.theportforum.com/viewtopic.php?t=4348&start=8\">pictures
    taken at a recent tasting</a> in which everybody had two 8\xBD\u2033\xD714\u2033
    US Legal pages, and <a href=\"http://www.theportforum.com/viewtopic.php?t=4978&start=10\">another</a>
    in which everybody had five sheets of A4.)"
  created: '2011-05-21 00:37:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just looked at FusiThinNormal, and you certainly did not do\r\nany squooshing...
    the font itself is squooshed! :-/  In fact it's a\r\nsquooshed version of Futura.
    Which is why it's free. It's also\r\nprobably an illegal clone.\r\n\r\n> there
    is likely to be great conflict between \u201Cbudget is an issue\u201D and \u201Ccustom\u201D.\r\n\r\n:-)\r\nThe
    good news is we're talking about only 10 glyphs.\r\n\r\nTarzana-Narrow: you're
    right, it's not narrow enough. The thing is, most\r\nultra-narrow fonts don't
    feature the diagonal-style \"6\"/\"9\". What about this?\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/parachute/pf-din-text-comp-pro/\r\n\r\nLastly,
    your rationales for Times and the one-directional code make sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-21 01:05:53'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Again, not narrow enough. The lining 6, used to make a super-tightly-spaced
    66, is 1.22:1, significantly less tall than 1.46:1. \r\n\r\nAlso, I hate the 7.
    Both the corner just below top-right, and the top-left tail. "
  created: '2011-05-21 09:11:55'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Hrant iz right. '
  created: '2011-05-21 15:29:02'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/nicksfonts/turista-flaca-nf/\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/liebe-fonts/liebe-erika/\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/paratype/futura-book/cond-book/\r\n\r\nMaybe
    not compressed enough:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/andrijtype/oksana-sans-compressed/\r\n\r\nBut
    Frode is right none the less."
  created: '2011-05-21 16:17:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're picky. Good for you. Now it's <em>really</em> saying \"custom\" to
    me.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-21 16:30:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, Oksana Sans Fat Compressed Italic makes me think that -especially since
    the numerals will be outlined- omitting the counters might be a useful trick here...\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, that's a free font, and since it's missing the counters it might actually
    survive squooshing (and skewing upright). However it's extremely likely to need
    some tweaks after such brutish treatment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-21 16:33:17'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "I love the 0 and 7 in <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/nicksfonts/turista-flaca-nf/\">Turista
    Flaca NF</a>. Shame that the bowl of the 6, and to a lesser extent of the 3, is
    so dis-proportioned. \r\n\r\nMe, fussy? You don\u2019t say. \r\n\r\nTen custom
    digits: \xBF\xA3$\xA5\u20AC? (Lining; sitting on baseline; matching heights; sans-serif;
    non-italic and non-oblique; the bounding box of a two-digit string in height:width
    of about ( (2^-1.75)*72/0.0254 - 2*30 ) / ( (2^-2.25)*72/0.0254 - 2*30 ) \u2248
    1.46; parsimonious strokes so no excess corners nor 180\xB0 turns; bowl height
    about half total height.)"
  created: '2011-05-21 17:12:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Maybe you can get a good deal asking Nick to customize Turista Flaca:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/user/6470"
  created: '2011-05-21 17:50:24'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Message sent to Nick \u2014 thank you for the link.\r\n\r\nPerhaps others
    could suggest possible requirements that I might have forgotten.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Digits should have level bottoms (on baseline) and tops. But a pointy top, ^,
    has a lot less visual weight at the top than a horizontal line (e.g., \u20187\u2019)
    or a smooth curve (e.g., \u20180\u2019 or \u20188\u2019). So no pointy tops please."
  created: '2011-05-21 18:07:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Sorry I can't oblige, but my schedule doesn't permit and, even if it did,
    my experiences with working with people who know EXACTLY what they want have been
    less than ideal. Perhaps it has something to do with the definition of a Perfectionist:
    someone who takes great pains...and then gives them to others.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I can suggest that you might look at this...\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/jonahfonts/credititle/caps/"
  created: '2011-05-21 23:23:41'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Nonetheless, thank you for replying, and for the suggestion of <a href=\"http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/jonahfonts/credititle/caps/\">Credititle-Caps</a>.
    Again, the \u20187\u2019 is not to my liking. "
  created: '2011-05-22 11:05:41'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "However, this thread has prompted one idea. Some \u2018squooshing\u2019 (is
    that a technical term?) might be acceptable. The code could gain additional parameters
    specifying a min and max y/x scaling ratio. This would widen the range of appropriate
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nIs there a standard term for squooshiness, and for direction
    expressed? Perhaps one of y/x, x/y, y/x\u20131, x/y-1, Ln(y/x), Ln(x/y), where
    y and x refer to the scaling."
  created: '2011-05-22 11:34:01'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Universalis ADF Cond: Ascender/Descender = 750/250, proportional lining numbers,
    widest box ('eight') is 516.\r\n\r\nParatype's PT Sans Narrow: Ascender/Descender
    = 800/200, monospaced lining numbers, box width = 475"
  created: '2011-05-22 15:22:50'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "The font with the PostScript name UniversalisADFStd-BoldCond is generally
    good, but insufficiently tall. So I have added to <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/placemat.html\">my
    PostScript program</a> two extra parameters:\r\n<code>% y/x scaling, bigger being
    taller, smaller being fatter\r\n/BackgroundTextsSquooshMin 0.5 def\r\n/BackgroundTextsSquooshMax
    2.0 def</code>\r\nand added code to use them.\r\n\r\nThe program then chooses
    a squoosh of 1.72775, that allowing the 0 and 3 to touch top and bottom, and the
    \u201866\u2019 to fill the width. The result is, again, at <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf\">www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf</a>.\r\n\r\nIs
    it perfect? No. Is it good enough? I think so.\r\n\r\nThank you all for help and
    suggestions.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 00:34:37'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Any typographer with a head attached to their body will tell you stretching
    or squooshing anything* beyond a couple of percent will destroy the original intent
    of the type designer. At this point you're slowly moving towards that grey zone
    between actual design and just tossing stuff onto your canvas. By now, Hrant --
    or any other decent type designer for that matter -- could've easily drawn a set
    of numerals to fit your needs. Judging by the amount of time you've spent poking
    around here without satisfying result, hiring a professional seems a much better
    investment. \r\n\r\nOn a side note: Where does this fear of hiring a professional
    actually come from? \r\n\r\n* Disregarding those extremely few typefaces designed
    with squooshing in mind."
  created: '2011-05-23 00:39:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My view is that usually 3% is pushing it.\r\nInterestingly AFAIK this is
    the percentage used on supermodel photos.\r\n\r\n> Judging by the amount of time
    you've spent\r\n> poking around here without satisfying result\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand poking around can be fun, and educational. Also Julian is flexing his math
    skills, and just like a muscle the brain does need to keep fit.\r\n\r\n> Where
    does this fear of hiring a professional actually come from?\r\n\r\nUsually the
    wallet, where else? Not a trifling thing Frode. But often there's also the admirable
    desire to do it yourself.\r\n\r\nFrankly I've noticed you're sometimes overzealous
    in promoting professional work.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf\r\n\r\nThis
    is less bad than the first one, but the squooshing remains evident, so anybody
    who notices/minds it in the first one will do so almost as much in the new one.
    :-/  I'm sure you're mindful of the qualities of the ports you taste; you're the
    one to decide how much of that mindfulness to port over :-) to the activities
    peripheral to that particular finer thing in life.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 01:06:29'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "> Any typographer with a head attached to their body will tell you stretching
    or squooshing anything* beyond a couple of percent will destroy the original intent
    of the type designer.\r\n\r\nWell, yes. True. If this were more text, five words
    rather than than two characters, and set at a smaller size, 24pt say, then this
    squoosh would look foul. But it is only two characters, at several hundred point
    on A4, outlined faint grey. \r\n\r\nIndeed, the original intent was probably not
    to be <code>clip</code> \u2026 <code>stroke</code>d in faint grey with lots of
    differently-directioned seriffed black text on top, and glasses of port on that.
    So put aside the historical (US constitutional) issue of intent, and instead ask
    whether it looks satisfactory. And I think it does\u2020. Not perfect\u2014absolutely
    not perfect\u2014but satisfactory for this task, and indeed for this class of
    tasks.\r\n\r\nIndeed, there are improvements more important to me than the squoosh.
    I would prefer all the characters to have exactly the same heights; and the \u20186\u2019
    to have a flat or rounded top; and other changes too. But it is satisfactory as
    is.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2020 Obviously it would look a lot lot better with the glasses
    of port!"
  created: '2011-05-23 09:00:06'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "How much you can stretch a typeface?\r\nhttp://www.artlebedev.com/mandership/134/"
  created: '2011-05-23 09:24:44'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>Frankly I've noticed you're sometimes overzealous in promoting professional
    work.</em>\r\n\r\nOn flexing the math: Everyone can not do everything on the same
    level of professionalism. Very often hiring a professional will get you both a
    quicker and a better result than you would by yourself. In business, realizing
    your shortcomings is essential. \r\n\r\nAnyway, you're right, H, I certainly can
    be too pessimistic. After all, I'm notorious for asking stupid questions on this
    very forum :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 10:25:22'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>... the original intent was probably not to be clip \u2026 stroked in
    faint grey ...</em>\r\n\r\nExactly, yes. (Seriously, investigate it!) Those other
    things though, they are things one would expect any typeface to endure, although
    -- considering original intent --  some more so than others, \r\n\r\nIt's an interesting
    assumption that squooshing will be less noticable at a larger size, however your
    example says otherwise."
  created: '2011-05-23 10:35:59'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Kerning. When there are only two characters, they can each breathe plenty
    on three sides. So the fourth can be kerned very tightly. But if typesetting a
    paragraph of Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet (or the linked example\u2019s cyrillic
    equivalent), then adjacent characters must be clearly separate but not separated.
    Different quantity \u21D2 different kerning rules. \r\n\r\nLikewise, perception
    of the relative widths of vertical and horizontal strokes varies with context.
    Bulk text must be treated as sacrosanct. Headline text is a little more decorative,
    and a little less prone to exhaustion through quantity, so there is a little more
    freedom to play. For example, at the larger size and smaller quantity serifs are
    less useful. And if setting just two characters on a whole page, things are different
    again. \r\n\r\nNext, read a page of a book. You probably held the book perpendicular
    to the line of sight. \r\n\r\nWith two A4 pages on a dining table, portrait, one
    \u2018above\u2019 the other, the further page is at about 45\xB0 from my line
    of sight, and I\u2019m 6\u20321\xBD\u2033. For me that is a foreshortening of
    a factor of about 1.4, and for shorter people the factor will be larger. There
    is enough wiggle-room  to tolerate the squooshing, even for a type pedant."
  created: '2011-05-23 12:43:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can't agree that a larger size makes it less of a problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 14:07:23'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Not larger size by itself. \r\n\r\nAll of: very few characters; size a very
    large proportion of the whole page; seen foreshortened. "
  created: '2011-05-23 14:38:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> very few characters\r\n\r\nNo difference.\r\n\r\n> size a very large proportion
    of the whole page\r\n\r\nProportion of page: no difference.\r\n\r\nLarge => Worse.\r\n\r\n>
    seen foreshortened.\r\n\r\nGreek-style optical compensation*? Awesome.\r\nPost-rationalization
    for saving money? Not so awesome.\r\n\r\n* Have you field-tested the average angle?\r\nIs
    the Standard Deviation from that tolerable?\r\n\r\nJust make sure any designers
    in attendance first visit the Bacardi 151 tasting.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 15:26:25'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "> Have you field-tested the average angle?\r\nNot forgetting that the average
    angle may well change as the evening progresses!"
  created: '2011-05-23 16:02:26'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Just to sum it up: It looks like crap. \r\n\r\nIf you want it to look great
    you need to spend a really long time learning how to make it look great or hire
    someone who already now. Pessimistic enough for ya?"
  created: '2011-05-23 16:36:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's <em>port</em>, so: merda.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 17:51:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: All this discussion seems not to have accomplished much, other than to be
    a classic example of a tempest in a teapot. I sincerely doubt that the typography
    of the signage will have any effect whatsoever on the wine-tasting experience,
    and I equally sincerely doubt that anyone except the OPer will care WHAT the signs
    actually look like, as long as they're legible. However, at least it has provided
    an amusing diversion for the past four days, so I suppose it's not a total waste.
  created: '2011-05-23 19:52:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That doesn't sound like a type designer at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 20:32:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Julian, something just crossed my mind (I don't know why it took so long).
    Do you know what Metafont is? It's basically a way to define a font parametrically,
    with variables that can be changed. Especially since you're clearly very handy
    with code you should be able to take a suitable metafont sans and generate the
    width you need by changing the right parameter(s); and then you can export a PS
    font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-23 20:56:28'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: 'I have a great Port but want it to taste a bit more cokish. Anyone to advise
    me on wich kind of Coke to choose and how much to drop in? '
  created: '2011-05-24 09:22:59'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Metafont: I know of, but have never used, Metafont. Good idea. On quick perusal
    it doesn\u2019t seem easy. If you can recommend a .mf file specifying a decent
    sans-serif typeface, please do. Thank you for the idea.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, the
    typeface in the <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf\">draft
    placemats for a tasting on 11th October</a> has been changed to <a href=\"http://www.fonts2u.com/santana-regularcondensed.font\">Santana-RegularCondensed</a>,
    which is not pre-squooshed, and needs less squooshing by me. It will not satisfy
    all readers of this forum, but is an improvement.\r\n\r\nCoke: if you really have
    a \u201Cgreat Port\u201D, contact me privately to discuss a price. If you just
    want to drink coke, that\u2019s fine (well, we can pretend it\u2019s fine), but
    in that case just drink coke."
  created: '2011-05-24 13:38:40'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Andreas, I'm afraid your subtle message got lost ;-)
  created: '2011-05-24 14:02:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "And not \"That's sherry, not port!\" lost, but \"Where on Earth am I NOOOOW??\"
    lost.\r\n\r\nAnyway, do not use powdered forms of coke. They foul up the result.
    Badly."
  created: '2011-05-24 22:28:52'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "Metafont: thoughts so far.\r\n\r\nMetafont uses an interesting language,
    containing elements of PostScript and Mathematica. \r\n\r\nBut implementations
    seem to be a nightmare. What I envisaged was:\r\n\u2022 there being somewhere
    accessible a .mf file specifying a parameterised sans-serif Helvetica-like typeface.
    \r\n\u2022 there being an application, as user-friendly as compilers/developments
    applications can be, which can convert .mf files to some widely-used font format.
    \r\n\r\nInstead:\r\n\u2022 I can\u2019t find a parameterised sans-serif Helvetica-like
    typeface, nor indeed, any others.\r\n\u2022 The Metafont application seems to
    be a pure command-line thing.\r\n\u2022 And the only route to PostScript is via
    a bitmap."
  created: '2011-05-25 18:11:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This seems like old information. For one\r\nthing I'm sure you can export
    PS outlines.\r\n\r\nTry asking this local guru:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/73827\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 18:36:23'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: You sure, hrant, you're not thinking of MetaPost?
  created: '2011-05-25 20:24:05'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "And now I\u2019ve just noticed a node problem with the counter of the \u20186\u2019
    of <a href=\"http://www.fonts2u.com/santana-regularcondensed.font\">Santana-RegularCondensed</a>.
    Sigh."
  created: '2011-05-25 21:48:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Picky people simply can't save as much money!\r\n\r\nIt's very hard making
    a high-quality font, so it's rare to find a good free one, and extremely rare
    to find a good free one that fits a tight design brief. Sure, somebody could get
    lucky, but as others have said there comes a point where the time you spend trying
    to get lucky isn't cost-effective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 21:58:28'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "OK. I need \u20186\u2019, \u20183\u2019, \u20187\u2019, and \u20180\u2019.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Pairs of digits (63, 66, 70, 77), properly kerned, which I can control, must approximately
    fill an A4 page less 30pt margins, a space in a ratio close to 111:76. More exactly,
    if you care, ( (2^-1.75)*72/0.0254 - 2*30 ) / ( (2^-2.25)*72/0.0254 - 2*30 ) to
    1.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Lining, sitting on baseline, matching heights.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Upright: non-italic, non-oblique.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Diagonal 6.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Not
    fussy. That probably means sans-serif, but small serifs might be OK. It also means
    not odd or mal-proportioned, in any of the various senses in which a font can
    be so.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Bowl height about half total height.\r\n\r\n\u2022 With counters.\r\n\r\nContact
    details at <a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/author.html\">www.jdawiseman.com/author.html</a>."
  created: '2011-05-25 22:42:06'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "\u2022 No foreshortening.\r\n\r\n\u2022 The 111:76 ratio is for two digits.
    \u2718\u2718\u2718 This does not mean that one digit is 111:38. \u2718\u2718\u2718\r\n\u25CA
    In \u201866\u2019 the digits touch at the bowl, so need a little space there.\r\n\u25CA
    In \u201870\u2019 the space, in some typefaces, is negative, especially relative
    to \u201877\u2019.\r\nRepeat: the 111:76 ratio refers to pairs of digits."
  created: '2011-05-26 08:21:03'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.jdawiseman.com/port/20111011.pdf\">Draft placemats for
    the 11th October tasting</a> updated to use digit pairs drawn by <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/17101\">Frode
    Bo Helland</a>, in whose direction I doff my hat. Thank you.\r\n\r\nThere isn\u2019t
    anywhere centre-stage to add a credit, but names and links appear in the crowded
    last page. Not perfect\u2014sorry. If wording unsatisfactory, please request different. "
  created: '2011-05-26 22:14:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looks good!\r\n\r\nWhy does the \"7\" have -what looks like- a trap?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 00:33:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Because it\u2019s trippy."
  created: '2011-05-27 01:11:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: I hate to mention this, but Optical Center is normally perceived somewhat
    above Mathematical Center; as a result, your 6s appear malformed, IMHO...
  created: '2011-05-27 16:21:47'
- author:
    name: jdaw1
    picture: 120247
  body: "If I were paying somebody a squillion monetary units to be perfect, then
    there would be a few small observations. \r\n\r\nBut I\u2019m not, so instead,
    again, doff hat at the creator. Thank you. "
  created: '2011-05-27 16:59:19'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: They are above, but maybe not enough. Thanks for the comment.
  created: '2011-05-27 18:07:32'
date: '2011-05-20 18:17:56'
node_type: forum
title: Tall sans-serif font with good digits

---
