---
author:
  name: typostylist
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI would like to know what kinds of social responsibility are
  needed to the typeface designer.\r\n\r\nI think 'social responsibility' is mainly
  used for corporations or product design field.\r\n\r\nBut, i think the typeface
  designer need social responsibility too.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think about this?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Everyone should be socially responsible lest we end up living in a world
    at war in economic and environmental crisis\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://www.davidberman.com/social/dogood.php\r\n\r\nhttp://www.davidberman.com/social/faq.php\r\n\r\nDavid
    Berman is a good friend of mine and knows more about design ethics than anyone
    I know. He also has very strong type skills. I\u2019m sure he\u2019d be more than
    willing to answer any direct questions."
  created: '2011-05-25 18:23:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>i think the typeface designer need social responsibility too</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    would a typeface designer practice social responsibility? Is there any way to
    control the actions of end users, so a typeface does not serve nefarious ends?"
  created: '2011-05-25 18:35:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Everyone should be socially responsible\r\n\r\nHear, hear.\r\n\r\nSpecifics
    to type design are indeed hard to come by, but I can think of these:\r\n- Participating
    in (or even initiating) fund-raising efforts, like FontAid.\r\n- Functionality
    is a reflection of sobriety, something I for one feel we need more of today. So
    to me making a text font is more socially responsible than making a display font
    for example.\r\n- The making of fonts for endangered writing system - and really
    most of them are! For example when I make Armenian fonts, it's not for money,
    it's to help keep my culture alive. And I try to apply that sensibility when making
    fonts for scripts besides my own. And some future generation will have to do that
    for Latin...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 18:48:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "For me, social responsibility begins in the workplace. I don't think there
    is necessarily a single model of social responsibility to which type designers
    should conform, but certainly the way in which you organise your working relationships
    with other people should not be at odds with your beliefs about the organisation
    of society. Beyond the workplace, in relationships with other people and institutions,
    things get more complicated. For instance, Tiro operates as a free association
    of individuals in which no one profits from anyone else's labour, but most of
    the work we do is for companies that are based on capitalist models because, well,
    they\u2019re the people who are paying.\r\n\r\nThere was an old Typophile thread
    on the subject \u2018Who wouldn\u2019t you work for?\u2019, i.e. what clients
    or kinds of work would you turn down on ethical or other grounds."
  created: '2011-05-25 19:17:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>How would a typeface designer practice social responsibility</em>?\u201D\r\n\r\nAnother
    way to explain would be to ask the question \u201CHow would a typeface designer
    practice social <strong>irresponsibility</strong>?\u201D\r\n\r\nExample: Designing
    a display face for a new brand of cigarette."
  created: '2011-05-25 19:17:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Designing a display face for a new brand of cigarette.\r\n\r\nUnless you
    donate at least some of the resultant proceeds\r\nto an anti-cigarette cause!
    And you make sure people know that.\r\nBecause, really, <em>somebody</em> is going
    to design the font if you don't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 19:25:06'
- author:
    name: BeauW
    picture: 116201
  body: somebody less socially responsible, hopefully.
  created: '2011-05-25 20:12:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Years ago I drew a whole bunch of lettering for Mezzina/Brown on the Joe Camel
    campaign. I needed the money and didn't see a problem, however, my current EULA
    requires written approval for any political or religious use of my font products.
  created: '2011-05-25 20:35:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/39040\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/70715"
  created: '2011-05-25 20:37:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't you run into issues of definition? I mean, can such a clause\r\never
    be more than a mild scare-tactic? I do hope I'm wrong though...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-25 20:39:45'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "\"So to me making a text font is more socially responsible than making a
    display font for example.\"\r\n\r\n?????????\r\n\r\nThat is truly a stretch!\r\nPC
    on the PC?"
  created: '2011-05-25 21:25:59'
- author:
    name: joeimmen
    picture: 118645
  body: "There are a lot of professions whose connections to social responsibility
    are hard to see. Would the world carry on fine if no new typeface designs were
    produced in the next 50 years? We would be able to 'survive' without them, but
    quality of life would be diminished, the same way as if there were no new board
    games, flavors of ice cream, styles of clothes, or varieties of architecture.
    Creative professions push the culture forward, make people happy, and increase
    quality of life, and it's hard to discount that.\r\n\r\nAt the same time, I have
    been interested in how type design relates to the greatest threat of the 21st
    century, climate change. Unfortunately, for this particularly important issue,
    type design doesn't seem to offer much help. New type designs could help in communicating
    environmental issues through posters, videos and interactive media, but it seems
    the thousands of existing, fantastic typefaces would be more than up to the challenge.
    Graphic designers appear to be able to have more social influence than type designers,
    who make the tools designers use.\r\n\r\nDavid Berman's book looks good, I'll
    have to check it out!"
  created: '2011-05-25 21:30:06'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "@ James\r\n\r\nI wonder about the First Amendment implications with your
    EULA!"
  created: '2011-05-25 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'One certainly needs to step away from the computer every-now-and-then and
    <em>socialize</em> with non-typophiles :) '
  created: '2011-05-25 23:39:55'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>So to me making a text font is more socially responsible than making
    a display font for example.</cite>\r\n\r\nI see it the other way around. A text
    face can be put to utterly loathsome purposes like publishing the work of Karl
    Marx or Noam Chomsky. Novelty fonts that can be used to promote wholesome business
    activities via advertising campaigns are certainly better for society."
  created: '2011-05-26 03:37:27'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@Michael \r\n\r\nThere are no first amendment implications. I get to control
    what I create. \r\n\r\nI own the copyright, therefore I control the right to copy.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 03:43:54'
- author:
    name: alezanoni
  body: "Probably not exactly what you are looking for as an answer, but there is
    a very nice idea/concept developed in Brazil on how to help disabled kids through
    typography/design, check it out (in English): http://www.uniquetypes.cc/index_en.html\r\n\r\nIt
    does not cover \"common\" typedesign, but it's still a very nice initiative!!!"
  created: '2011-05-26 05:53:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In the 1980s I attended a talk by F.H.K. Henrion in which he listed the responsibilities
    of a graphic designer.\r\nI can't remember them exactly, but was impressed by
    the scope.\r\nSomething like this:\r\n- Do original work, to a high standard of
    quality\r\n- Educate the next generation of designers\r\n- Organize one's peers
    (industry bodies, trade shows, conferences)\r\n- Promote the profession to the
    trade and general public (public relations, competitions)\r\n- Cause marketing
    (he had designed wartime propaganda posters for the Ministry of Information (UK)
    - possibly \"Keep Calm and Carry On\"- and later  volunteered his services to
    causes he believed in, eg designing posters for Oxfam)\r\n\r\nType designers have
    some catching up to do, but bear in mind that type design has only very recently
    become a viable full-time profession for more than a handful of people."
  created: '2011-05-26 06:30:05'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>my current EULA requires written approval for any political or religious
    use of my font products.</cite>\r\n\r\nGOOD Heavens! \r\nHow do you manage to
    control this? Are you going to censor your client\u2019s text pieces?\r\nThis
    is rediculous.\r\n\r\n<cite>making a text font is more socially responsible than
    making a display font</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2013 a little over-simplifying? The Uniquetype
    project seems to prove otherwise. \r\n\r\n\u201CMake good fonts and get them to
    the crowd\u2026\u201D \u2013 have I read this here already? "
  created: '2011-05-26 07:09:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would regard it as legitimate to try to restrict use of a typeface in,
    say, an advertising logo for something political, religious, or carcinogenic...
    but highly inappropriate to restrict use of a typeface as a text font for any
    purpose.\r\n\r\nThe idea being that in the former use, the typeface itself, and
    hence its designer, is becoming identified with something, while in the latter
    there is, among other things, a First Amendment issue.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone else
    see this as a valid distinction? Of course, one could say that this distinction
    is more concerned about the self-interest of the type designer for his own reputation
    than with social responsibility... but that's another can of worms."
  created: '2011-05-26 08:08:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't see the purported First Ammendment issue with James' EULA restriction.
    He is making and selling a licenses to use a product and reserves the right not
    grant such a license for certain uses. No one's freedom of speech is dependent
    on the right to license James' product. It's not as if he's making the only fonts
    in the world.\r\n\r\nFurther, the First Ammendment of the US Constitution says
    that <em>government</em> will not enact laws to limit the freedom of speech. It
    doesn't put any onus on private citizens to materially provide for the free speech
    of others. About as close as any jurisdiction gets to that is the California ruling
    that shopping malls, although private property, function as public spaces and
    hence owners cannot prohibit peaceful assembly, although they may limit them."
  created: '2011-05-26 09:46:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "@Andreas\r\n\r\nCertain political and religious organizations are not banned
    in the US as they are in Germany, so I figure I have to mange this on my own."
  created: '2011-05-26 11:21:26'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: My query was not meant to be negative, simply an inquiry as to how one could
    keep another from using a legally bought product in any fashion they chose. I
    would never even think of looking at a EULA for restrictions on how I could "use"
    a font. Needless to say my eyes have been opened.
  created: '2011-05-26 12:34:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I didn't perceive your query as negative.\r\n\r\nBut aren't all font EULAs
    documents (contracts actually) that outline how and under what circumstances the
    font software may be used?"
  created: '2011-05-26 12:39:27'
- author:
    name: ab
    picture: 111490
  body: "I totally agree with John Hudson when he stands that \"social responsibility
    begins in the workplace\". It's not only a matter of doing a good job or just
    doing it well. It's about how we could contribute as we \u2014 type designers
    \u2014 are part of our society. We're not living in another Galaxy (although it
    might seem so ;-)\r\nAccording to this responsibility, in the last years, I've
    been involved in Arabic, taking into account the Arabic heritage of my country
    (Spain) and looking for some original historical roots that could help when designing
    an Arabic-Latin script. A research has been made in order to fulfill some basic
    requirements. It's not easy, indeed. But the most important thing is establishing
    a cultural \"bridge\" between our spanish culture and the increasing arabic population
    that is now living in Spain. \r\nImmigration is becoming a big problem in my country.
    A real stuff within the political agenda. There's a lack of tools in order to
    improve a better understanding among our cultures. I believe that typography,
    as a tool for communication, can help. That's the reason why I got engaged in
    this work. This is only a sample I just wanted to highlight. \r\nI could also
    talk about languages like Guaran\xED that are not considered within the unicode
    system yet. Type design can support this kind of \"unknown\" languages throughout
    the visibility of text.\r\nI'm sure there're other ways to contribute as part
    of our responsibility as designers. But, first of all, our responsibility is as
    people, as human beings sharing the same place.\r\n\r\nAndreu B."
  created: '2011-05-26 13:15:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...what kinds of social responsibility are needed to the typeface designer.[?]\r\n\r\nI
    learned from a very senior experience designer at HP, that the most direct social
    responsibility we have is talking large scale distributors of mass products, out
    of 'cardboard shoes', which is something he was asked to design when he was young.
    \r\n\r\nType designers who can apply this to their work usually find a willing
    client, as large scale distributors of mass font products are usually paying top
    dollar, and what's a few extra hours to design in a rubber sole for the bottom
    end of the market.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn's list from F.H.K. Henrion is a superb next
    level.\r\n\r\n>...\u201CHow would a typeface designer practice social irresponsibility?\u201D\r\n>Example:
    Designing a display face for a new brand of cigarette.\r\n\r\nI think such subjective
    practices are a slippery slope, are not your business, and are beyond being well
    out of your control as a type designer. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 13:33:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">> making a text font is more socially responsible than making a display
    font\r\n\r\n> a little over-simplifying?\r\n\r\nYes, a generalization. Certainly
    a given display face can be more socially\r\nresponsible than a given text face.
    But I stand by my stated need for sobriety.\r\n\r\n> Immigration is becoming a
    big problem in my country.\r\n\r\nGood angle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 13:47:03'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: "Then why the blanket statement Hrant? I am not a fan of the \"cult of ugly\"
    \ but I would not disallow someone the right to design a titling font... nor would
    I call it socially irresponsible. My definition of socially irresponsible runs
    to the pirates, copyists, regurgitators etc!\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 16:57:24'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>the First Amendment of the US Constitution says that government will
    not enact laws to limit the freedom of speech. It doesn't put any onus on private
    citizens to materially provide for the free speech of others</cite>\r\n\r\nCorrect.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>aren't all font EULAs documents (contracts actually) that outline
    how and under what circumstances the font software may be used</cite>\r\n\r\nEven
    a legal EULA provision is only as good as one's ability to enforce it, and use-based
    restrictions are difficult that way. You can't know what people are doing with
    your font at all times, everywhere. (Though I'd like to have a EULA provision
    that prevents horizontal scaling of more than \xB110%.)\r\n\r\nAlso, if you dinged
    someone under your EULA for a forbidden message, the likely result is that they'd
    pay you to settle the dispute, so you'd end up profiting from their misuse anyways.
    Maybe the EULA would specify that they'd have to donate to a nonprofit organization
    with a diametrically opposed viewpoint (!)\r\n\r\nBut aside from the practical
    issues, I agree with DB that in general, social responsibility is an awkward duty
    to impose on type designers. Responsibility can only be manifested through choices.
    The type designer's zone of choices is the typeface itself; everything beyond
    that is someone else's choice."
  created: '2011-05-26 17:15:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreu: <em>I could also talk about languages like Guaran\xED that are not
    considered within the unicode system yet.</em>\r\n\r\nGuaran\xED is supported
    in Unicode. It requires use of combining mark characters, but that is true of
    very many of the world's languages. The use of combining mark characters can be
    made transparent to users, through keyboard layouts that assign multi-character
    sequences to single keystrokes and through language-specific editing, sorting,
    spellchecking, etc."
  created: '2011-05-26 18:14:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The type designer's zone of choices is the typeface itself</em> \r\n\r\nBut
    what of professional responsibility? (See my post above on Henrion)\r\n\r\nThis
    is responsibility to that sector of society to which one belongs, determined by
    one's work.\r\nIt is a practical and relatively feasible social responsibility,
    not mediated through one's product to a vast abstraction.\r\n\r\nI don't expect
    type designers to organize to represent their interests, AIGA/GDC style, anytime
    in the near future.\r\nThe idea of type designers as a professional group is quite
    new, as prior to e-commerce there were only a very few full-time type designers.
    So far, the mentality is very individualistic, as the economic model is based
    primarily on retail product, and is hence entrepreneurial. The belief is that
    if you aren't successful, it's not because the odds are stacked against you, but
    because your fonts and/or the way you market them isn't good enough. The solidarity
    that exists, protecting and promoting group interests, in professional organizations,
    is lacking.\r\n\r\nThose industry organizations in which we do participate (e.g.
    ATypI) represent a variety of interests, many of which\u2014such as the major
    corporate sponsors\u2014conflict with those of type designers.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 18:21:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, I didn't mean it as a blanket statement. But any statement is a
    generalization/simplification to some extent. And I absolutely don't think making
    display fonts is \"socially irresponsible\" - it's all relative, and to me making
    fonts of any kind is certainly far better than most things somebody could be involved
    in!\r\n\r\n> I don't expect type designers to organize to represent\r\n> their
    interests, AIGA/GDC style, anytime in the near future.\r\n\r\nIf not now, when?\r\n\r\nMany
    years ago on the T-D forum I proposed forming TyD (Type Designers) and\r\nif something
    like that ever materializes it would do just that (and more).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 18:35:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Those industry organizations in which we do participate (e.g. ATypI)
    represent a variety of interests, many of which\u2014such as the major corporate
    sponsors\u2014conflict with those of type designers.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd even if not
    directly conflicting are certainly not the same interests. ATypI used to be a
    professional organisation of type companies -- a cartel in fact --, but is now
    a social and educational organisation, open not only to people who work in the
    type business but also to those who buy type, work with type, like looking at
    type, etc. There are, broadly, three sets of economic interests represented --
    employers, employees and customers --, all at odds with each other.\r\n\r\nAs
    I see it, there are two major mode of work for type designers. One is a modern
    capitalist mode in which a type designer is a wage worker employed by people whose
    own business is not designing typefaces; in this category are those designers
    employed at companies like Monotype Imaging and Linotype, i.e. companies whose
    owners are not type designers. The second is the older artisan mode, in which
    master type designers own their own businesses and employ journeymen type designers
    (and may take on apprentice type designers too), albeit without the regulation
    provided by a guild (a journeyman is defined by his employment, not by certification).
    A good example of this mode is H&FJ.\r\n\r\nAt Tiro, we've tried to come up with
    a third mode in which workers individually own the means of production and no
    one is an employee. I don't imagine this would work for everyone: one has to value
    freedom higher than stability. No one is bound to Tiro, but by the same token
    we can't guarantee continuous work to all our associates. Then again, the stability
    of employment under those other modes is illusory, as those laid-off type designers
    who write to me asking if I have any work for them surely know."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:00:00'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Many years ago on the T-D forum I proposed forming TyD (Type Designers)
    and\r\nif something like that ever materializes it would do just that (and more).</cite>\r\n\r\nGiven
    the number of Type Designers out there, what dues structure would you propose
    to raise the substantial amount of operating capital needed to be a true professional
    organization that can lobby and hire legislative clout?\r\n\r\nReady to throw
    in $10,000 -$100,000 a year? "
  created: '2011-05-26 19:03:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If not now, when?</em>\r\n\r\nWe're starting to see foundries make some
    serious retail money now, and with that independent financial strength the paradigm
    that the top type designers sell out to OEMs may change, and more come to realize
    that doesn't serve our best interests as a group."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:07:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, my RGD membership fees are around $300 p.a.\r\nWith 1,000 members,
    that provides the funds for staff and an office.\r\nThen corporate sponsorships
    and partnerships kick in."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:12:40'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>But what of professional responsibility? (See my post above on Henrion)</cite>\r\n\r\nAll
    worthy virtues. But I think of \"social responsibility\" as pertaining more to
    the effect on the outside world, whereas Henrion's list is more about good sportsmanship
    within the industry (aka not biting the hand that feeds). Also, all of Henrion's
    suggestions are things that are well within the scope of what designers can choose
    to do or not do. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>The solidarity that exists, protecting and
    promoting group interests, in professional organizations, is lacking</cite>\r\n\r\nIndustry
    associations are only economically rational if three conditions are met: a) the
    putative members have identifiable collective interests, b) those interests are
    impractical to pursue on an individual basis, and c) no other industry organization
    is already addressing those interests. \r\n\r\nI may be imagination-challenged,
    but I can't think of a group interest for type designers that would meet these
    conditions."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:38:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Industry associations are only economically rational if three conditions
    are met\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThe RGD (Association of Graphic Designers of Ontario)
    came into being despite your conditions (b) and (c).\r\nGraphic designers in Ontario
    had conducted business before, and many had been members of the GDC, a national
    body.\r\nThe main impetus for the RGD was the threat of competition from \"unprofessionals\"
    without much ability, know-how, experience or educational qualifications, but
    with the latest software.\r\n\r\nThe piracy issue is a common interest for type
    designers, but it is a single issue.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 19:50:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>We're starting to see foundries make some serious retail money
    now, and with that independent financial strength the paradigm that the top type
    designers sell out to OEMs may change, and more come to realize that doesn't serve
    our best interests as a group.</em>\r\n\r\nThat seems to me contradictory. If
    some foundries are making some serious retail money now, that must either be despite
    the work that type designers also do providing fonts to OEM distributors, or in
    some way actually contributed to by that work, e.g. by OEM distributed fonts exposing
    more potential retail customers to a richness of typographic variety. You've been
    suggesting for years that OEM font distribution undermines retail font licensing,
    and yet OEM font distribution isn't getting less while you are acknowledging a
    growth in retail licensing income. Indeed, not only is OEM distribution not getting
    less, it is now supplemented by the growth of free and open source font distribution.
    That \u2018serious retail money\u2019 is being made within a diverse font business
    ecosystem, and without a systematic analysis of how that ecosystem works it isn't
    possible to say what the actual impact of one area is on another. I don't think
    it should be presumed that OEM font distribution \u2018doesn't serve our best
    interests as a group\u2019.\r\n\r\nThere are things that I instinctively think
    are probably not a good idea: retailing and OEM licensing the same fonts, for
    example, which is why I prefer a clean distinction between custom fonts and retail
    fonts, although recognising that product-specific OEM distribution may actually
    create a retail demand among users of other products, as was the case with the
    Microsoft C* fonts. [In that case, the issue is not of OEM negatively impacting
    retail, but of custom font development contracts not providing for the original
    designers to receive a share of subsequent retail licensing, in this case by a
    licensed third party. Something for people to think about when contracting custom
    font work.]\r\n\r\nAnother thing I think is wrong is the exploitation of libre
    and open source fonts by multi-billion dollar corporations like Google, who derive
    value from those fonts far in excess of the peanuts that they only sometimes offer
    to type designers. I think it is na\xEFve to think that application of the free
    software model to creative works within a capitalist economy will result in anything
    other than the exploitation of those works by corporations whose capital resources
    enable them to leverage far more value from those works than the individual creator
    can. Giving away your fonts to people who can and should pay for OEM licensing
    is flat out stupid."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:55:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think of \"social responsibility\" as pertaining more to the effect
    on the outside world, whereas Henrion's list is more about good sportsmanship
    within the industry. </em>\r\n\r\nBut one doesn't participate in a society by
    affecting an outside world.\r\nWe are all part of the same social ecology, and
    the way to best participate starts close to home, in ways that are socially practical,
    not mediated through a product whose conditions we have no control over."
  created: '2011-05-26 19:55:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Giving away your fonts to people who can and should pay for OEM licensing
    is flat out stupid.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that's how I see OEM licensing, however
    big the fee.\r\nIt's a one-time pay-off to surrender one's intellectual property.\r\nI
    might see things differently if those who do it negotiated a royalty contract
    that was more in line with normal foundry retail returns.\r\n\r\nYou say there
    is no way to know if bundling is harm or help.\r\nHowever, it seems obvious to
    me that any business deal one makes with a behemoth that doesn't score points
    is to one's disadvantage. And certainly to the disadvantage of one's peer's who
    weren't involved.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 20:08:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Nick, Does RGD lobby, have legislative clout, fight to overturn onerous laws
    and taxes?\r\n\r\nATypI, SEGD, TDC, SoTA, these are all professional organizations,
    but none of them get involved at the legislative level. Even AIGA is more of a
    wealthy graphic designers club that an advocacy group.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 20:10:05'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>Giving away your fonts to people who can and should pay for OEM licensing
    is flat out stupid.</cite>\r\n\r\nI concur."
  created: '2011-05-26 20:11:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>It's a one-time pay-off to surrender one's intellectual property.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    are three distinct models of OEM font licensing:\r\n\r\n1. Non-exclusive corporate
    distribution license. In this case one isn't surrendering any intellectual property
    at all: one is simply granting a license that permits redistribution. Such a license
    may be linked to a specific volume of product for bundling purposes, specific
    number of downloads, etc.\r\n\r\n2. Exclusive corporate distribution license.
    In this case one surrenders the right to sell licenses to other parties, whether
    corporate or retail; one may or may not surrender other intellectual property
    rights up to an including all rights, or one may surrender some rights only for
    a limited period of time. Obviously the size of the fee should be commensurate
    with the rights purchased.\r\n\r\nNote that both of these models presume that
    what you have is a creative product for rights licensing, and the only difference
    between this and retail font licensing is the size of the fee and the rights granted
    under the license. OEM licensing of products in this way does not necessarily
    involve surrendering any intellectual property.\r\n\r\n3. Custom or proprietary
    font development. This is the area I work in most of the time, and I see it as
    something quite distinct from corporate distribution licensing. This is contracted
    creative work, not product licensing, and the disposition of intellectual property
    rights varies considerably. Some clients want to completely own their custom typeface
    and be able to do anything with it that strikes their fancy, including distributing
    or even selling licenses themselves; in other words, they want to include in the
    contracted fee a transfer of all intellectual property rights. But this is not
    the case of surrendering intellectual property to the client -- as would be the
    case if one were selling rights to an existing product --, because the intellectual
    property is only coming into existence because of the contract. Some clients do
    not see a need to assume all rights to the custom font, so long as they have the
    rights to use the font in the ways in which they need it, and hence the font developer
    gets to retain some or most rights, including the right to license the font to
    other customers, either immediately or at some future date after a period of exclusive
    use by the client. That's my favourite kind of work, because it means that all
    the font development is paid for up front, while the possibility of future income
    is retained. Obviously the fee for work under such terms is lower than if the
    client wishes to own the product outright."
  created: '2011-05-26 20:52:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, this is all very well, but as you know, my criticism of OEM font licensing
    primarily concerned Microsoft, Adobe, and Apple.\r\n\r\nAFAIK, the otherwise-available
    fonts they bundle are not owned by type designers.\r\nAnd for the fonts they have
    commissioned, they have retained exclusive rights.\r\n(I don't expect to ever
    see Gadget at Font Bureau.)\r\n\r\n<em>But this is not the case of surrendering
    intellectual property to the client -- as would be the case if one were selling
    rights to an existing product --, because the intellectual property is only coming
    into existence because of the contract. </em>\r\n\r\nThat's a moot point. The
    fact is, the client is acquiring the intellectual property that the type designer
    has created, and could have just as easily provided under a less exclusive contract.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-26 21:25:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, the RGD does have some legislative standing:\r\nhttp://www.rgdontario.com/aboutUs/default.asp\r\n\r\nAnd
    if not advocacy, at least this:\r\nhttp://www.rgdontario.com/viewEvent.asp?ID=1114"
  created: '2011-05-26 21:28:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>AFAIK, the otherwise-available fonts they bundle are not owned
    by type designers.</em>\r\n\r\nRoss owns Euphemia and Plantagenet. They are distributed
    under license by Microsoft and Apple. Other fonts we have made for Microsoft as
    custom fonts, which they own outright (see below). \r\n\r\nRecently we were approached
    by someone representing Google who wanted us to release Euphemia under a libre
    license for hosting on the Google web font server. I, after my fashion, gave them
    the long explanation of why we wouldn't be doing this and how I think the na\xEFvit\xE9
    of free software enthusiasts is being taken advantage of by corporate capitalists.
    Ross gave them the short response: Google can obtain a corporate distribution
    license if they want, and will pay no less than Microsoft and Apple.\r\n\r\n<em>That's
    a moot point. The fact is, the client is acquiring the intellectual property that
    the type designer has created, and could have just as easily provided under a
    less exclusive contract.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think it is a moot point, because
    in such cases the intellectual property in question would not have existed other
    than as a result of the contract. This is not speculative work or work produced
    and then licensed: it is contracted work, and since the client is specifically
    interested in owning such rights that is what they are a) looking to contract
    and b) willing to pay for.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the case that the intellectual property
    inherent in the contracted work 'could have just as easily provided under a less
    exclusive contract'. If it was that easy, don't you think we would regularly be
    doing so? The people with the money and the freedom to contract with whomever
    they choose are in effect able to dictate what it is that they will purchase.
    We can decline the contract, but we can't really dictate it. I suppose if there
    were an association whose bylaws prohibited members from selling intellectual
    property rights outright, then members could attempt to dissuade clients from
    seeking such and accept less exclusive terms of use, but I suspect the outcome
    would simply be that the clients would go elsewhere and contract with non-members,
    and probably at lower rates for poorer quality.\r\n\r\nI believe the contracting
    of a private, custom typeface to which the client assumes all rights is a legitimate
    arrangement providing that the fee represents to the designer adequate remuneration
    for both the work done and the value of the intellectual property. Note also that
    the client assumes not only the rights but the responsibilities for defending
    and enforcing them.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nWith regard to the notion of a professional
    association, I think the two dominant modes of type design work that I outlined
    above present a problem. The artisan mode suggests something like a guild, in
    which the responsibilities and rights of members at different levels of the the
    type business -- masters, journeymen and apprentices in the traditional language
    -- would be codified. But the proper organisation for wage workers in the capitalist
    mode is the trade or industrial union. I look forward to the arguments of Monotype
    management that type designers and hinters should not be members of the same union."
  created: '2011-05-26 22:06:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Well, that's how I see OEM licensing, however big the fee.\r\n>It's a one-time
    pay-off to surrender one's intellectual property.\r\n\r\nNick, otherwise they
    just offer cardboard shoes like comic sans, microsoft sans, the hideous apple
    chalkboard, and John said it first, Google in general, though it's hard to blame
    Google yet, because Apple and MS have published 0 web fonts by my last count?\r\n\r\n>-
    Promote the profession to the trade and general public (public relations, competitions)\r\n\r\nVia
    OEM licensing, it's the biggest promotion of designed fonts. \r\n\r\n>And for
    the fonts they have commissioned, they have retained exclusive rights.\r\n>(I
    don't expect to ever see Gadget at Font Bureau.)\r\n\r\nThis is simply not true
    of Font Bureau. The only fonts which \"they have retained exclusive rights\" to,
    were where FB provided services to OEMs, on the designs of other vendors which
    had been licensed to the OEM in incomplete form. This went from Linotype Times
    for Apple through Mistral for MS. But from Gadget to Prelude, and there's something
    like 50-60 FB original fonts involved to Apple, MS and others, we have all the
    rights we had before the OEM license, and all the rights we've granted to \"them\"
    are limited.\r\n\r\nI will stop discussing whether replacing cardboard shoes with
    something better for masses of users. \r\n\r\nBut, please attempt to come to recognize
    that we are in different places on a spectrum. i.e. e.g. there are a lot more
    than two major modes of work for type designers, for sure;) and there are a lot
    more than two kinds of relationships between founders and OEMs.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 02:18:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what dues structure would you propose\r\n\r\nWhat about royalties from
    sales? So the more money a member makes, the more he contributes to the organization.
    Like taxation. This could be considered fair because the more money you make the
    more you could benefit from the organization -specifically in terms of protection-
    in the future.\r\n\r\nAlso: In order to avoid the conflicts mentioned above, membership
    would be open only to <em>individuals</em> who are actually involved in the production
    of type; and no corporate sponsorship would be allowed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 05:57:09'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "\"the stability of employment under those other modes is illusory\"\r\n\r\nExcept
    in France? ;-)"
  created: '2011-05-27 14:14:39'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>-specifically in terms of protection- </cite>\r\n\r\nSo you are proposing
    that it follow a model similar to the Mafia."
  created: '2011-05-27 16:10:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David: <em>I will stop discussing whether replacing cardboard shoes with
    something better for masses of users.</em>\r\n\r\nThat was never an issue.\r\nNothing
    wrong with giving the plebs a good set of work boots and a pair of high heels
    for Saturday night.\r\nIt's the bounteous provision to one and all of Marcos-sized
    shoe collections that might be suspected of limiting the demand for such things.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-27 19:22:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">It's the bounteous provision to one and all of Marcos-sized shoe collections...\r\n\r\nWell
    the bounteousness is pretty thin...\r\n\r\n>...that might be suspected of limiting
    the demand for such things.\r\n\r\nI think the demand for Marcos-sized shoe collections
    in our industry is independent of OEM fonts, except that the latter create more
    demand for the former. \r\n\r\nBut two guys, two spots, one spectrum. "
  created: '2011-05-27 21:21:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the bounteousness is pretty thin...</em>\r\n\r\nNot for the vast
    majority of font users who have all their typographic needs met by bundled fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026the
    demand for Marcos-sized shoe collections in our industry is independent of OEM
    fonts, except that the latter create more demand for the former.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    a bundled typeface such as Didot may create demand for didone-style types, by
    both exposing and popularizing the genre, and also by stimulating those who want
    to be different to license other, commercial didones. But this is a small upside.
    If Didot were not supplied free bundled with the Mac OS, then all those who wanted
    to use a didone would have to pay to licence it, and that would have been a far
    larger market.\r\n\r\nThe demand for and interest in new and more sophisticated
    types is not something that was created by bundling non-cardboard fonts, but is
    a consequence of DTP technology, and the growing familiarity with typography,
    now that it is no longer a trade practised by a few, but is something anyone with
    a desktop computer can do.\r\n\r\nIf good bundled fonts had been restricted to
    Times and Helvetica, a diverse font industry would just as surely have evolved."
  created: '2011-05-27 22:00:13'
- author:
    name: typerror
    picture: 109491
  body: Especially from those who craved socially irresponsible titling fonts Nick
    :-)
  created: '2011-05-28 01:59:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>If good bundled fonts had been restricted to Times and Helvetica,
    a diverse font industry would just as surely have evolved.</em>\r\n\r\nBut a diverse
    font industry <em>has</em> evolved, and it includes people who specialise in custom
    and OEM font development. I suppose I could complain that you, by selling retail
    font licenses to end users so successfully are affecting my market for OEM font
    development: \u2018surely\u2019 it will reach a point when companies like Microsoft
    and Apple will think 'We don't need to bundle fonts with our products any more,
    everyone knows where to go to license the fonts they want'. As I said before,
    absent a systematic analysis of different aspects of the font industry -- and
    we work in a business that notably has no industry analysts --, we're not able
    to truly say what positive, negative or lack of impact one area has on another,
    nor are we able to say how this changes over time, nor are we able to claim that
    we're not simply expressing the biases or fears of our particular niche."
  created: '2011-05-28 04:43:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I suppose I could complain that you, by selling retail font licenses
    to end users so successfully are affecting my market for OEM font development
    </em>\r\n\r\nOnly if Shinntype were selling font licences by the million, and
    giving away free computers with them :-)\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026nor are we able to claim
    that we're not simply expressing the biases or fears of our particular niche.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was wary of large corporations long before I started a retail type foundry.\r\nI
    doubt that the owner-designers of most retail foundries (which BTW I don't consider
    to be a niche) have a bias against, or a fear of bundling, most of them just get
    on with business, including OEM work if it comes their way.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 05:45:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "Many years ago I opted to go and work as graphic designer and sign maker
    in a public transit agency. I did so in part because it paid well and the people
    I'd be working for seemed pretty decent, but mainly because, of all the opportunities
    I came across, working in public transit seemed to be the most ethical and socially
    responsible one available to me. I designed and made signs, which are long-lasting
    items that don't usually end up in the landfill nearly as often as mailers, magazine
    ads and packaging. Plus my efforts all ultimately have contributed to sustainability
    long before that was a catchword. I still work there.\r\n\r\nThis is the ethos
    I try and bring to everything I do. Not that I'm any good at it. I'm just human,
    but the good intentions are there. In trying to carry them forward into designing
    type, it starts to become a little difficult to maintain any consistency though.
    It's like designing nuts and bolts. Fonts are raw materials that other people
    make things out of. If you design a really nice titanium bolt, you can have no
    more than symbolic influence over whether it will be used to build a search and
    rescue aircraft or a cruise missile. \r\n\r\nTo take up Hrant's earlier comments
    that designing text fonts is more responsible than designing display fonts and
    that a socially responsible thing type designers can do is to design fonts for
    endangered languages... Designing display fonts for endangered languages is not
    only ethical, it's noble. Every one deserves pretty posters and cigarette ads
    to look at... :o)\r\n\r\nI recall that in Edmund Carpenter's book <cite>Oh What
    Blow That Phantom Gave Me</cite>, he wrote that many tribal cultures were dieing
    off because, compared to what the encroaching modern civilizations around them
    had to offer, Mom and Dad's culture was frankly, just plane old boring, if not
    dismal. It could not compete for the younger generations attention. A bit of a
    polish on the old ways (and scripts) can only help to preserve them. \r\n\r\nPlus,
    signage fonts!! Last Year my wife and I drove through a First Nations reserve.
    The bilingual stop signs had the word \"STOP\" in a proper condensed highway font
    and below, in a scrawny hand lettered scrip, the native word for stop. If a people
    don't have the means even make a decent stop sign in their language, their language
    is all but dead. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 06:56:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Russell, it seems like you've struck a good balance.\r\n\r\n> Designing display
    fonts for endangered languages is not only ethical, it's noble.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a very relevant twist - I hadn't thought of it.\r\n\r\n> compared to what the
    encroaching modern civilizations around them had to\r\n> offer, Mom and Dad's
    culture was frankly, just plane old boring, if not dismal.\r\n\r\nIndeed, and
    as a diasporan Armenian parent I feel that daily. But I struggle to recommend
    simply giving in - there must be a balance, an intelligent and wise manipulation
    so that endangered cultures die neither from being abandoned out of disinterest
    nor from irrelevance by becoming too similar to dominant cultures. Some say it's
    a hopeless battle. But everything dies eventually. We must simply try - and luckily
    at the very least our efforts end up enriching even the dominant cultures - and
    that's socially responsible too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 14:41:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As far as empowering minority languages goes, I've done some of that, not
    so much out of social responsibility, but from the general principle of publishing
    fonts that aspire to, if not better, the standards set by Adobe. \r\n\r\nThomas
    Phinney outlined a utilitarian philosophy of character coverage at his Tyblography
    blog when he was at Adobe\u2014the idea being something of a triage, but nonetheless
    covering a great many very small (in terms of users) languages, before the cut-off.\r\n\r\nThere
    is no doubt some megacorporation world domination strategy behind that kind of
    comprehensive coverage, but there is also an element of altruism. And technological
    inevitability, given the existence of Unicode and its incorporation into the massively
    accomodating OpenType format.\r\n\r\nAnother principle is that if a typographic
    feature is available in a typeface, it should be available in all weights, in
    all encodings. Fair's fair, and don't discriminate by privileging some languages
    over others.\r\n\r\nThat is why Scotch Modern Micro contains Bold Italic Small
    Caps with Swash Capitals for Mongolian Cyrillic, and the travesty of Greek Unicase!\r\n\r\nIt
    was a challenge, and the type designer's equivalent of fun, to do that\u2014at
    least the first time\u2026"
  created: '2011-05-28 17:22:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Aspiring to fairness is great, but to me formal matching of styles across
    scripts can sometimes be anti-design, and in the end less of a service to a minority
    script - that time can be better spent making a new font for such a script! For
    example making an Italic for Armenian is far less useful than for Latin, especially
    if you believe that slant is integral to cultural authenticity (or at least differentiation)
    in Armenian so should ideally be a feature of the main \"Roman\" style (especially
    in a design with serifs).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 17:29:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So how do you design an answer to the challenge of providing Armenian with
    the axis of contrast that is represented in Latin, Cyrillic and Greek by Roman/Italic?\r\n\r\nNote
    that the culturally un-authentic genres of Roman (in Greek) and Small Caps (Cyrillic)
    have been adopted, as has weighting in Fraktur.\r\n\r\nAnd the Petrine reform\u2026
    was that socially irresponsible (in obsolescing the indigenous script), or progressive
    (bringing Russia into the modern mainstream)?\r\n\r\nAnd the abolition of \"polytonic\"
    Greek \u2014 necessary modernization and adaptation to enable the survival of
    the script, or wilful destruction of rich tradition?\r\n\r\nI guess these things
    happen, and the type designer's responsibility is to be thoroughly informed before
    stepping into the fray. And that is a professional responsibility."
  created: '2011-05-28 18:01:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Designers of Armenian type -at least the ones who notice there's a problem-
    are still working towards a good solution. But one big factor is that Armenian
    has a floating emphasis mark that can be placed on any vowel, so Italics for emphasis
    becomes non-critical. Personally I advocate (even for Latin setting actually)
    the free use of a Demi weight for contrast - the only caveat is you need to mind
    the repro quality lest the contrast is made too subtle. My reason to avoid \"Italic\"
    almost entirely, in any script, is based on two things: my suspicion of chirography
    in type; and the view that the informality of Italics isn't necessarily in tune
    with what a given Roman is trying to do. I've explained this to the best of my
    ability in the Daidala interview:\r\nhttp://www.daidala.com/25apr2004.html\r\n\"\r\nIf
    you believe that a typeface carries emotional associations in its forms*, then
    you have to conclude that the conventional practice of having only italics for
    emphasis is one-dimensional. There can be many kinds of emphasis, many nuances
    a discerning typographer might want to give snippets of text. So what would be
    nice is a system of fonts than can nest into each other and convey various emotions,
    such as stress, sensuality, whatever. What do italics convey? Mostly informality
    and motion \u2013 not necessarily what the text being marked is about.\r\n\r\n*
    And if you don't, how do you justify making yet more fonts?\r\n\"\r\n\r\nI also
    think that the slanted-Roman (when done well, not Morison-style - and this was
    the topic of my TypeCon-LA talk) needs to be taken much more seriously, especially
    for something like Armenian.\r\n\r\n> the culturally un-authentic genres of Roman
    (in Greek)\r\n> and Small Caps (Cyrillic) have been adopted\r\n\r\nSure, a lot
    has gone wrong over time.  :-)\r\n\r\n> Petrine reform\r\n\r\nSloppy, and impoverished.\r\nAnd
    set a Cyrillic word in a body of Latin (or vice versa) and you're quite likely
    to hiccup - they're too close. Sure, a designer can make an effort to deviate
    the forms across scripts, but I feel the <em>spirit</em> of the Petrine reform
    is the opposite.\r\n\r\n> the abolition of \"polytonic\" Greek\r\n\r\nBad.\r\nSame
    with the dumping of Greek's superb mega-ligatures.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER:\r\nThe worthiness
    of a given reform of a script changes over time. For example the Petrine reform
    -although it could have been carried out much better- can be seen as a useful
    modernization of Russia, at that time. And there's little reason to fear for the
    near future of Russian culture. However soon in the future it might become a good
    idea to move away from Latin. For some design jobs it's a good idea even right
    now.\r\n\r\n> the type designer's responsibility is to be thoroughly\r\n> informed
    before stepping into the fray.\r\n\r\nIndeed, but also you can't be socially responsible
    without taking sides.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 18:31:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Indeed, but also you can't be socially responsible without taking sides.\r\n\r\nThis
    is so 19th century and blind to spectrum analysis, much less spectrum awareness,
    I have no other thought. "
  created: '2011-05-28 18:43:22'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@russelim:\r\n<cite>Last Year my wife and I drove through a First Nations
    reserve. The bilingual stop signs had the word \"STOP\" in a proper condensed
    highway font and below, in a scrawny hand lettered scrip, the native word for
    stop.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere may be more to this than a lack of fonts. My understanding
    is that when it comes to most of the First Nations people living in Canada, while
    there are occasional projects to teach the young people the language - still spoken
    by some of the elders - most First Nations languages <em>have</em> died, as far
    as being in daily use.\r\n\r\nThe one exception to that is Inuktitut, the language
    of Canada's Inuit, which is the first language of a large proportion of them,
    young or old.\r\n\r\n@hrant:\r\nYou can't be socially responsible without <em>caring</em>,
    and that does mean taking sides on the issues involved. But <em>before</em> taking
    sides, if one really is socially responsible, one has to have taken the trouble
    to inform oneself accurately about the issues involved.\r\n\r\nSome people feel
    they're being socially responsible when they oppose nuclear power. But I think
    they've carelessly jumped on a bandwagon, without really checking if the safety
    concerns are real, and the net result of their activism may well be that, since
    ordinary people won't see a way we can do something about global warming without
    ruining the economy, that problem won't be addressed until it's too late."
  created: '2011-05-28 19:55:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I consider myself multicultural. I speak 5 languages, live in LA, travel
    as much as I can, and freely admit and discuss the shortcomings of my own culture
    (especially with other Armenians). But I would also like my kids to stay Armenian
    - maybe even be more Armenian than I am. And I simply don't see how I can make
    a difference in any society by staying neutral, worrying only about how many toys
    I die with. But that's just me - a person (like any other) formed by my particular
    circumstances.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 20:12:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>I was wary of large corporations long before I started a retail
    type foundry.</em>\r\n\r\nAs well you and we all should be, for many reasons,
    and more than wary. But I was not responding to a general wariness towards the
    activities of large corporations, but to a specific claim that you have repeated
    over the years, which is that the bundling of fonts with other software is bad
    for the retail font business. I do not see evidence of that, and based on the
    state of the retail font business today my inclination would be to say that the
    impact of font bundling has probably been neutral or may have been beneficial.
    But this is only an inclination, and I wouldn't boldly claim either to be the
    case without systematic impact analysis. You, on the other hand, have repeatedly
    asserted that OEM font licensing 'doesn't serve our best interests as a group',
    despite the absence of such an analysis, and in this thread have seemed to suggest,
    however obliquely, that an organised professional association for type designers
    should enact a policy against such licensing. Now, if there were such an association,
    it might commission an impact analysis of the various aspects of the font business
    by qualified and experienced analysts, but my guess is that the business is so
    small that we couldn't afford it. Most industry analysts work for investment firms,
    reporting on activity and development within major industries with substantial
    shareholder investment, and frankly that is a world I am much warier about getting
    involved with than making a product and selling it to a customer that happens
    to be a large software corporation."
  created: '2011-05-28 20:20:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fully agreed - it always grates on my nerves especially when affluent, dominant,
    comfortable people oppose this or that thing essentially because they're bored
    - they have no \"inherited\" cause of their own. And this is actually one reason
    minorities can seem passive in terms of social activism - they're preoccupied
    with their own internal, very real and immediate social causes. However:\r\n-
    That's still better than just letting the world spin around.\r\n- Naturally there's
    always a limit to how much a person is willing and able to learn about something
    before taking action - sometimes you can get so obsessed with research that action
    becomes unpalatable!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 20:20:46'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: In an attempt to bring this back to the original thread, I'd say that it would
    be the height of social responsibility if all of those people on the Critique
    forum would stop blowing smoke up the asses of all those dreadful type designs
    that get posted. You know who you are and you know that it is crap.
  created: '2011-05-30 03:04:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed I wrestle with this myself. I see somebody showing a design in progress
    and clearly expecting -and often getting- mere suggestions for tweaks whereas
    I want to scream \"throw this junk away and start over!\" :-/  Sometimes I find
    a subtle way to say that (although I'm sure it rarely sinks in) and sometimes
    I just look the other way (which just makes me feel weak and dirty) but once in
    a while I succeed (and of course not by myself but collectively with others) in
    communicating what might be worthwhile to keep in a design, and trying to get
    the designer to re-evaluate the whole thing, sometimes ending up with something
    actually worth producing. A good recent example is this: http://typophile.com/node/81730\r\n\r\nAnd
    James, looking through that thread, for all your tough talk, I think you nicely
    managed to actually help the guy bite the bullet and make some big -and necessary-
    changes for the better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 06:55:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nick> If Didot were not supplied free bundled with the Mac OS, then all those
    who wanted to use a didone would have to pay to license it....\r\n\r\nIs that
    so? And how would ANY of the kinds of users we're talking about, know there was,
    much less they wanted, a didone? And conversely, ALL those who find a bundled
    didone would use only that didone, forever?\r\n\r\nJames>...stop blowing smoke
    up the asses of all those dreadful type designs that get posted\r\n\r\nChild's
    play, and CAN be a bit cowardly towards novices. I hardly think of telling some
    poor shlaamp their crotch is too tight for their descender depth as social responsibility.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you are critical of large corporations and design agents who blow smoke up the
    a crotches of their own un-resolving, over-lauded, or otherwise big-time b-s fonts,
    in detail... but you don't want to hear that;) Most don't want to be so responsible,
    and are stuck in a group kow-tow position waiting to be tapped on the head by
    a stack of cash;)\r\n\r\nHrant>But I would also like my kids to stay Armenian
    - maybe even be more Armenian than I am. \r\n\r\nIt's possible to grow up more
    Armenian in Los Angeles, California, USA, speaking English and Spanish, and living
    an American life, than to grow up an Armenian in Armenia? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 12:18:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No - and that's one reason my brother's family moved from LA to Yerevan after
    7 years here; I've been here ~25 years*. However other things (like being a better
    world citizen - also an aspiration) are much more possible here. But most of all,
    life just happens to you. When I left Beirut** at 18 it was to go to college,
    escaping the educational lethargy resulting from the war; and my sister was already
    living in LA, so... If she'd been living in Frankurt I'd know German instead of
    Spanish.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Except for 6 months in Barcelona during\r\na period that
    I was sick of LA (and the US).\r\n\r\n** The first time I actually went to Armenia
    was\r\nin 2000. Most Armenians (5 out of 8 million) are\r\ndiasporan, because
    of the Armenian Genocide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 14:32:23'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>When you are critical of large corporations and design agents who blow
    smoke up the a crotches of their own un-resolving, over-lauded, or otherwise big-time
    b-s fonts, in detail... but you don't want to hear that;) Most don't want to be
    so responsible, and are stuck in a group kow-tow position waiting to be tapped
    on the head by a stack of cash;)</cite>\r\n\r\nMe no speeky Berlow."
  created: '2011-05-30 18:48:03'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "As a lifelong Marxist - Groucho, that is - I'm reminded of the line:\r\n\r\n\"If
    you look at it it's a barn, if you smell it, it's a stable.\"\r\n\r\nRelevance?
    Who knows."
  created: '2011-05-30 18:58:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <Em>You, on the other hand, have repeatedly asserted that OEM font
    licensing 'doesn't serve our best interests as a group', despite the absence of
    such an analysis\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nOccasionally, rather than repeatedly.\r\nThat
    is my opinion, which I argue to the best of my ability.\r\nAnd as you say, holding
    a contrary view, there is no empirical evidence one way or the other.\r\nIf a
    study by analysts were to be commissioned, I doubt it would be conclusive one
    way or the other.\r\n\r\nJohn: <em>\u2026which is that the bundling of fonts with
    other software is bad for the retail font business.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I think so,
    based on the basic economic principle that people aren't going to buy something
    which is free; and, according to my reading of the Competition Act, it also illegal
    in Canada, and probably many other countries that have fair trade laws.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.laws.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/C-34/index.html\r\n\r\nBut
    who is going to take on the megacorporations? Look how Microsoft tied up the EU
    over its bundling of IE.\r\nThat's not a battle I am interested in fighting (along
    with piracy), I would rather spend my time making fonts.\r\nAlthough I do like
    to discuss these issues at Typophile!"
  created: '2011-05-30 19:16:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Me no speeky Berlow.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat I can decipher--perhaps incorrectly--is
    that the big players in the font game are often allowed to skate. A few months
    back, I mentioned in a post that several characters in Adobe Garamond Pro didn't
    conform to PostScript specs, specifically for nodes at the extrema. As it happens,
    a BIG NAME was responsible for the design, so a fair number of apologists spoke
    up, excusing the situation, with arguments like \"PostScript specs are only guidelines\"
    and \"the exigencies of production precluded strict conformity,\" etc. The point
    of that exchange--as well as Dennis's observations, I believe--is that one Speaks
    Truth to Power at one's peril..."
  created: '2011-05-30 19:17:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "David: <em>\u2026 how would ANY of the kinds of users we're talking about,
    know there was, much less they wanted, a didone? \r\n\r\nIf you don't want to
    acquaint potential purchasers with your product by giving away free samples, you
    advertise it.\r\nThis is how the initial digital font market grew, by direct mail
    campaigns to graphics professionals\u2014that was when fonts were sold on floppies,
    before the CD made it possible for bundle-spamming.\r\n\r\nAdobe used to distribute
    a magalog, <em>Font&Function</em> IIRC, which garnered a lot of font profit in
    the early '90s.\r\n\r\n<em>And conversely, ALL those who find a bundled didone
    would use only that didone, forever?</em>\r\n\r\nWell OK, some who try pot do
    go on to become crackheads, but a relatively small percentage."
  created: '2011-05-30 19:28:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sections of Canada's Competition Act relevant to font bundling:\r\n\r\n77
    (1) Tied selling\r\n78 (1) a. Abuse of dominant position by vertically integrated
    supplier\r\n\r\nI'm no lawyer, but it seems to me that those sections address
    font bundling by, for instance, Adobe and Microsoft."
  created: '2011-05-30 19:59:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oldnick, can you direct me to a PostScript font specification that says extrema
    MUST have nodes?\r\n\r\nAdobe have always avoided putting nodes at extrema if
    the result would distort the design, which is often the case in shallow curves,
    and as PS RIPs and Adobe's own screen rendering has become more sophisticated
    they've taken greater liberties in this regard. Why? Because they're satisfied
    with the results.\r\n\r\n<em>one Speaks Truth to Power at one's peril</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    truth? What power? What peril? You made a claim about how a font was made and
    some people disagreed with you. No one came around and took you away in the middle
    of the night."
  created: '2011-05-30 21:08:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, tied selling is the practice of requiring a customer to purchase a
    product from you by virtue of having previously bought a product from you, or
    attempting to prohibit a customer from using a competing product. This has nothing
    at all to do with font bundling, which involves including within a single commercial
    product multiple pieces of software some of which are fonts. There is no requirement
    on the customer to purchase subsequent pieces of software from the same company,
    and no attempt to prohibit the customer from using competitive software, including
    fonts.\r\n\r\nThe only person in this conversation who appears to want to prohibit
    anything is you."
  created: '2011-05-30 21:09:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John, here is the section from the Competition Act:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Ctied
    selling\u201D means\r\n(a) any practice whereby a supplier of a product, as a
    condition of supplying the product (the \"tying\" product) to a customer, requires
    that customer to\r\n(i) acquire any other product from the supplier or the supplier\u2019s
    nominee \u2026\r\n(b) any practice whereby a supplier of a product induces a customer
    to meet a condition set out in subparagraph (a)(i) \u2026 by offering to supply
    the tying product to the customer on more favourable terms or conditions if the
    customer agrees to meet the condition set out in either of those subparagraphs.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    order to get the free (\"more favourable terms\") font, you have to buy the major
    application/OS.\r\n\r\nThe issue is not whether the font is otherwise readily
    available from its supplier at \"market price\", but the the fact that it is distributed
    as a premium.\r\n\r\nThis wouldn't be an issue were it not for the dominant position
    of the vertically integrated supplier (see 78. 1 (a))\r\nFor instance, giving
    away a year's free gas with the purchase of some car models is not going to put
    Shell out of business\u2014but it would be another matter if every car Ford sold
    came with free gas forever. Now, if this were the Economy gas, David would argue
    that it would encourage people to upgrade to Premium\u2026"
  created: '2011-05-30 22:13:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n\r\nI don't recall using the word MUST; AFIK, the PostScript
    font specification describes what produces OPTIMAL results, both in terms of rendering
    and hinting. In the thread I referenced, I took one section of an outline which
    lacked at orthogonal extremum, added it and massaged the handles a bit. When I
    overlaid the two at 1,000 pts. using Photoshop's DIFFERENCE filter, the difference
    ranged from zero to half a pixel, hardly the definition of recognizable, apparent
    or meaningful distortion.\r\n\r\nIf you recall an exchange we had about QWERTY
    keyboards, I stated that the design was chosen to slow typists down so that they
    didn't jam those early mechanical clunkers; you disagreed, but allowed that the
    design was sub-optimal. Now, as then, I fail to see a recognizable, apparent or
    meaningful distinction between \"deliberately clumsy\" and \"sub-optimal.\" It
    appears that sub-optimal fonts don't bother you, either. Fine: to each his own.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    as far as Speaking Truth to Power is concerned, the vitriol in your post speaks
    volumes about how the Old Boys Club deals with criticism...\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 01:12:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, I think your interpretation of that segment of the Competition Act is
    perverse and idiosyncratic, but then I'm not a lawyer either.
  created: '2011-05-31 01:42:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oldnick, the language of technical standards makes conventional use of certain
    terms, often capitalised, to indicate different levels of conformance requirement.
    So, for instance, there is a distinction between MUST and SHOULD. So, let's look
    again at what you wrote:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>A few months back, I mentioned in
    a post that several characters in Adobe Garamond Pro didn't conform to PostScript
    specs, specifically for nodes at the extrema. As it happens, a BIG NAME was responsible
    for the design, so a fair number of apologists spoke up, excusing the situation,
    with arguments like \"PostScript specs are only guidelines\" and \"the exigencies
    of production precluded strict conformity,\" etc.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCan you
    see how the wording of the spec, with regard to MUST vs. SHOULD would have an
    impact on the reasonableness of the responses you received (leaving aside your
    unpleasant presumption of the motivation of those responses)? The reason I asked
    whether you could direct me to a PostScript font specification that says extrema
    MUST have nodes is that such a technical requirement would make the responses
    you received invalid. But I am not aware of any such technical requirement. I'm
    not even sure that the PS font spec uses the term SHOULD, but rather makes some
    recommendations for rendering and hinting purposes, neither of which are static
    purposes and hence my comment about changes to RIPs and screen rendering methods,
    which make hinting and hence extrema nodes less critical than they were when the
    original PS font spec was written. Maybe the spec should be updated and reworded
    to record current recommended or accepted practices? Personally, unless a spec
    is going to say MUST, I'd prefer it to give examples of different approaches and
    what their expected outcomes are, so that font developers can make informed decisions
    about what practices to adopt under what circumstances.\r\n\r\nWhen I am making
    fonts, I always seek to place nodes at extrema, and will only not do so if I find
    that this distorts a shallow curve. Adobe, as I said, have long taken a more liberal
    approach. I put nodes at extrema because I like being tidy and also because a
    lot of my work ends up being produced as TrueType, within which nodes at extrema
    is much more important than it is in PostScript fonts today. Indeed, in some TrueType
    glyphs I am obliged to put nodes on an extreme even if this produces an unwanted
    distortion of curve quality, in order to provide an accurate bounding box.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nWhat
    vitriol? I was trying to suggest that your rhetoric seemed to be getting away
    from you. Really: 'speaking truth to power', 'peril'? Doesn't that seem a bit
    over-the-top to you in retrospect? I find such rhetoric makes it very difficult
    to have a reasonable discussion, and over the years I have watched too many conversations
    spiral into such language, with people ceasing to speak to each other but only
    to declaim portentous clich\xE9s. I used to do it to, but am trying not to any
    longer.\r\n\r\nYou seem inclined to unjustly ascribe to vile motivations to people
    who disagree with you. Can't someone just think you are wrong about something
    without being accused of belonging to an Old Boy's Club or protecting a BIG NAME?\r\n\r\nWho
    is in this Old Boy's Club? Of the people in the present discussion who might be
    considered such on the grounds of being colleagues of longstanding, we have Nick
    who believes that some of the ways in why my fonts are distributed are harmful
    to the type business (despite not providing evidence of such impact) and should
    be considered illegal under existing laws, and we have David who, if I read him
    correctly, thinks my fonts are bullsh\u0456t and that I'm a kowtowing corporate
    sycophant. Sheesh... is there some way out of this club?\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\nRe.
    the QWERTY keyboard. Here's the thread: http://typophile.com/node/70843\r\n\r\nNowhere
    in that thread did I describe the QWERTY keyboard as sub-optimal. It probably
    is sub-optimal as a layout for electronic keyboards, but it was designed to be
    optimal for mechanical typewriters <em>at speed,</em> and my only contribution
    to that thread was to point out that you had repeated an urban legend that the
    layout was designed to slow typists down; on the contrary, it was designed to
    enable them to type as quickly as possible on a typebar system."
  created: '2011-05-31 02:25:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ",cite>...an urban legend that the [QWERTY] layout was designed to slow typists
    down.</cite>\r\n\r\nAlways been a laughable notion. Just think about the age in
    which the QWERTY system was designed for a second. Slowing workers down for any
    reason would have been anathema. Tantamount to Communism.\r\n\r\n:o) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 04:23:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant wrote: <em>...you can't be socially responsible without taking sides.</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    which David responded: <em>This is so 19th century and blind to spectrum analysis,
    much less spectrum awareness.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd to be honest I'm not entirely sure
    what they were talking about, but I reckon they're both right in their way. By
    way of context, a quote from a 2006 <a href=\"http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/26/business/yourmoney/26every.html?ex=1165554000&en=02ed48ae1473efe0&ei=5070\">NYT
    interview</a> with multibillionaire investment genius Warren Buffett:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>There's
    class warfare, all right, but it's my class, the rich class, that's making war,
    and we're winning.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI agree with David in that I think it is
    essential to appreciate and try to understand the full complexity of the social
    and economic relationships in which people now live, and the sometimes conflicting
    interests that these generate even for individuals. I agree with Hrant in that
    I believe those very complexities have often been deliberately engineered to divide
    and conquer."
  created: '2011-05-31 04:26:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I agree with Hrant in that I believe those very complexities have often
    been deliberately engineered to divide and conquer.\r\n\r\nConspiracy John! Say
    it ain't so!?"
  created: '2011-05-31 11:48:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "On the topic of Extrema, I couldn't find this as a topic in the Typowiki,
    so I can only move my Berlowspeak to a Berlographic \u2014\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LairsClubPart1_5892.png]\r\n...and
    ask, does anyone want to help me add an entry, this topic could be so thoroughly
    documendead and illustradead, T1, TT, bidirectional tranlations, tranforms and
    hinting with and without, that no one would ever have to do more than link to
    it, instead of pointing at \"classes\" of designers as some sort of extrema-skates,
    its r'diculous.\r\n\r\nAnd then maybe we'll all be able to move on to the socially
    responsible classifying of overlapping contours."
  created: '2011-05-31 13:21:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@John Hudson\r\n\r\n<em>I put nodes at extrema because I like being tidy
    and also because a lot of my work ends up being produced as TrueType, within which
    nodes at extrema is much more important than it is in PostScript fonts today.</em>\r\n\r\nMe,
    too, and even on shallow curves. Plus, recently, I have taken to producing separate
    source files for TTF versions of my fonts so that I can control the quality of
    the output better.\r\n\r\n<em>over the years I have watched too many conversations
    spiral into such language, with people ceasing to speak to each other but only
    to declaim portentous clich\xE9s. I used to do it to, but am trying not to any
    longer</em>\r\n\r\nSounds like a sound philosophy to me. I respect your experience
    and expertise; my apologies for inferring a certain level of hostility in your
    reply.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 16:08:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em>Nick, I think your interpretation of that segment of the Competition
    Act is perverse and idiosyncratic\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIt is indeed an interpretation,
    as the law hasn't really caught up with digital yet.\r\nBut I don't think it's
    perverse, as the Competition Act is all about fair play, and my main objection
    to font bundling by megacorporations is that it's unfair to retail foundries.\r\nIdiosyncratic
    I always consider a compliment, thanks!\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm not making a campaign
    of this, just discussing it in an impersonal manner at Typophile, once in a while,
    if it has some relevance to a thread someone else has started.\r\nWhen I went
    after Helvetica in 2003 I spoke against it at ATypI and wrote magazine articles
    deconstructing its hegemony. \r\nDid my advocacy for new type design help lead
    to the present profusion of originality, or would it have happened anyway?\r\nNonetheless,
    Helvetica is still number 1 at MyFonts. "
  created: '2011-05-31 17:14:48'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Ultimately I'm skeptical that social responsibility can or should exist in
    the business context. Businesses exist to make money. Economic incentives inevitably
    take precedence over other considerations.\r\n\r\nWhen businesses say \"look at
    our socially responsible practices,\" what they usually mean is \"these are areas
    where the public interest happens to intersect with our economic interest.\" \r\n\r\nBetter
    than nothing? I suppose. But it means that social responsibility is only a consideration
    when the economic values are equal, which is a fairly dilutive way to look at
    it."
  created: '2011-05-31 17:43:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Conspiracy John! Say it ain't so!?</em>\r\n\r\nIt ain't so. Conspiracy
    implies secretive, behind-the-scenes machinations. I was referring to quite open
    policies that, for example, permit unionisation only along trade lines rather
    than industrial lines, encourage better-paid workers to consider themselves 'middle
    class' rather than working class, call people who get paid minimum wage to pour
    coffee 'associates', treat truck drivers as independent contractors in order to
    avoid paying benefits or allowing them to join the teamsters, etc. This isn't
    conspiracy: this is business as usual. The apparent complexity of socio-economic
    relationships these policies create serve to obscure the fact that the dominant
    relationship remains that between the working class and the employing class, which
    is a relationship of contrary interests and hence of struggle. As Warren Buffett
    pointed out, while the working class are dissuaded from even mentioning class
    war, the rich are relentlessly waging it."
  created: '2011-05-31 20:04:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I'm skeptical that social responsibility can or should exist in the business
    context.\r\n\r\nIt can, and it must - because we're all people, not money-making
    machines.\r\nSome of us are more heartless, but all of us have a conscience, somewhere.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 20:20:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Testify!
  created: '2011-05-31 20:23:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>all of us have a conscience, somewhere</em>\r\n\r\nThat's a highly debatable--and
    somewhat off-subject--point..."
  created: '2011-05-31 20:34:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>When businesses say \"look at our socially responsible practices,\"
    what they usually mean is \"these are areas where the public interest happens
    to intersect with our economic interest.\" </em>\r\n\r\nOr, more cynically still,
    'We recognise that a significant portion of consumers like to think that they
    are being socially responsible, so we'll make it easy for them to think that by
    investing in a PR campaign to say that we are'. The phenomena of 'greenwashing'
    is a good example of this. A parallel is the recognition by processed food companies
    that a lot of consumers want to believe that they are eating healthy, low-fat
    food, which in the United States -- where companies are allowed to self-regulate
    food labelling -- leads to packaging proclaiming hydrogenated bundles of sugar
    and salt to be 'A healthy snack'.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I disagree that making
    money and being socially responsible are <em>necessarily</em> conflicting goals.
    If this were true, there would be no basis at all for ethical investing, fair
    trade, progressive labour practices, co-operative ownership etc., which typically
    involve investors and companies willingly putting social policies before maximisation
    of profit. In other words, you can run a socially responsible business if you
    have a concept of <em>enough</em> when it comes to profit: kind of like how you
    can be a healthy individual if you have a concept of enough when it comes to eating."
  created: '2011-05-31 23:57:44'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>you can run a socially responsible business if you have a concept of
    enough when it comes to profit</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2011/04/21/apples-cash-pile-now-65-8-billion/"
  created: '2011-06-01 00:20:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, this is the one that takes the cake for me:\r\n\"We all have a duty
    of care to ensure that from cradle to grave\r\nproducts are being used appropriately
    and do not do lasting harm.\"\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/technology/6081486.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 00:39:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oldnick,\r\n\r\n<blockquote>One reader suggested yesterday that Apple buy
    Ferraris for all its employees with its cash stockpile.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis
    reader suggests that they use the money to relocate their iPad and other hardware
    manufacturing to the United States, employ unionised American labour, and stop
    outsourcing to factories in China that Cupertino employees regularly refer to
    as 'Mordor', where conditions are so bad that workers are now required to sign
    a 'no suicide' pledge."
  created: '2011-06-01 01:01:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And if you break the pledge, and survive, you get fired.\r\nBecause if you
    can't even kill yourself successfully you\r\ncertainly can't be good at manufacturing
    gadgetry!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 01:08:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@typostylist: How do <strong>you</strong> define \u2018<em>social responsibility</em>\u2019?"
  created: '2011-06-01 12:44:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>This reader suggests... a 'no suicide' pledge.\r\n\r\nJohn \u2014 the
    biggest China-only component is the display. You had a choice in 04-05 and since,
    to support better use of font tech we have and move to the next level of great
    font tech, or do nothing (about type design for screens, about font formats, and
    about web font formats). When your platform loses the competition you've been
    promoting, become socially responsible?\r\n\r\nThe train left the station when
    I said it would. If you want to imagine my picture of the horror: the Han are
    going to work their minorities to death in display factories from Tolkien's dark
    side because font formats are too stupidly deployed to help anyone, except the
    dickheads who believe in rendering and resolution competition. \r\n\r\nHave a
    wonderful day, week, month, or life blaming Apple.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 15:56:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>This reader suggests that they use the money to relocate their iPad and
    other hardware manufacturing to the United States, employ unionised American labour,
    and stop outsourcing to factories in China</em>\r\n\r\nMy sentiments exactly.
    The figured referenced is larger than the GDP of over 130 of 195 nations reporting..."
  created: '2011-06-01 16:26:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Ultimately I'm skeptical that social responsibility can or should exist
    in the business context. Businesses exist to make money. Economic incentives inevitably
    take precedence over other considerations.\r\n\r\nI don't agree. I interviewed
    Aaron Feuerstein, owner of Malden Mills, in 2000. He is famous as an example of
    corporate responsibility and social responsibility because of his paying his workers
    for a year after his factories burned down in 1995. His legacy is complicated
    because of his eventually losing control of his company, and it going into bankruptcy
    in 2002. How much this had to do with his decisions after the fire, and how much
    to do with his creditors not being willing to extend credit to a CEO over 80 years
    old, I don't know. I do know that he very successfully ran the company for 50
    years before the fire, when most manufacturing had fled New England, and much
    had fled the US. \r\n\r\nIf you look at his success in being socially responsible
    to his workers and the communities around him for fifty years before the fire,
    there is no doubt that it is possible to make a lot of money and be socially responsible.
    Feuerstein made clear to me that pursuing social responsibility\u2014which he
    takes to be a moral obligation, in and out of business\u2014and profit were his
    goals. Putting the two together requires a real creative effort, and success in
    either, much less both, is difficult. But to say that it is impossible is not
    correct, and I fear gives people an excuse not to try.    "
  created: '2011-06-01 17:12:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, is it therefore socially irresponsible of type designers to work (however
    contracted) for \"socially irresponsible\" companies that are mainly concerned
    about the bottom line (and complying with as few regulations as they can get away
    with), that will promptly lay off long-in-the-tooth employees whenever there is
    a downturn in the economy?\r\n\r\nBear in mind that a long lifespan is not a fundamental
    property of a business in any sector, and that the laid-off employees may go on
    to start-up their own competitive businesses."
  created: '2011-06-01 18:03:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Looking at the Chinese manufacturer for Apple, [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foxconn|Foxconn,
    a subsidery of Hon Hai Precisions Industries]], which people are talking about
    here, a few things struck me as interesting. \r\n\r\nFirst, they are Taiwan owned.
    \r\n\r\nSecond they are the world's largest maker of electronic components. They
    are the biggest private employer in China, the biggest exporter from China, and
    the second biggest exporter from the Czech Republic. They have nearly a million
    employees world wide. \r\n\r\nThey manufacture for most of the leading electronics
    manufacturers: Apple, Acer, Amazon (Kindle), Asus, Intel, Cisco, Hewlett-Packard,
    Dell, Nintendo, Nokia, Microsoft, Sony Ericsson, Visio. \r\n\r\nSo the issue of
    employee treatment is an issue world wide and across many companies. "
  created: '2011-06-01 18:42:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Capitalism* can't survive because it's its own worst enemy</em>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    I can't agree with that statement; the real question is whether or not WE can
    survive Capitalism..."
  created: '2011-06-01 20:49:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the Han are going to work their minorities to death in display factories
    from\r\n> Tolkien's dark side because font formats are too stupidly deployed to
    help anyone\r\n\r\nJust like we can't just blame Apple, we also can't just blame
    font rendering. The broader problem, the reason the West will eventually be owned
    by China, is that we're too cheap: we care about saving 10 cents much more than
    subtle quality differences. In fact Capitalism* can't survive because it's its
    own worst enemy.\r\n\r\n* Which is a political system. China is very\r\nmaterialistic
    (which is human nature) but\r\nit's not capitalistic.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 20:52:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, in Jewish ethics there are both prohibitions (commandments \"not to
    do,\" such as not to murder or bear false witness) and positive injunctions (commandments
    \"to do,\" such as to love your neighbor as yourself.) Generally speaking the
    prohibitions are more sharply defined, and easy to recognize. So I would say that
    when it comes to working for others, one should avoid those you find really odious
    or morally reprehensible. But beyond that, I think it's hard to say, because if
    you only would work for angels, you wouldn't have many clients. Michael Bierut
    talks about developing a base of clients you like and can work with well. Of course,
    his talent and success makes that easier for him to achieve, but maybe his approach
    has also help him to be successful, it's hard to say. \r\n\r\nFeurstein told me
    that if you want to make a quick buck, not caring about ethics can help you. But
    if you want long term success, that depends on building trusting relationships,
    and there a sense of responsibility and caring pays off in the long run. That
    corresponds to Bierut's advice about developing clients with whom you have a good\u2014in
    several senses\u2014relationship. "
  created: '2011-06-01 20:52:13'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>On the other hand, I disagree that making money and being socially
    responsible are necessarily conflicting goals</cite>\r\n\r\nSure. My point was
    only that rationally operated businesses will never choose a socially valuable
    option that doesn't also lead to profit. And that's not cynicism \u2014\_it's
    just an acknowledgment that businesses don't have the same freedom of choice that
    an individual does. \r\n\r\nThat's also why we should be cautious about holding
    up the activities of any business as a model of socially responsible behavior.
    It's just not in the gamut of possibilities, and sets the bar low. It's like holding
    up McDonald's vegetarian options as a model of healthy cuisine.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>If
    this were true, there would be no basis at all for ethical investing, fair trade,
    progressive labour practices, co-operative ownership etc., which typically involve
    investors and companies willingly putting social policies before maximisation
    of profit</cite>\r\n\r\nAre they? Seems to me that you never have to scratch a
    socially progressive business policy too deeply to find the profit motivation
    underneath. But maybe that's my US bias.\r\n\r\nOr the example of Mr. Feuerstein.
    He kept his employees on payroll \u2014 so he could rebuild his textile mill.
    He didn't say \"I'll take this insurance money and send all you employees to college
    so you can get better jobs,\" or open an orphanage, etc."
  created: '2011-06-01 21:02:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>My point was only that rationally operated businesses will never
    choose a socially valuable option that doesn't also lead to profit. And that's
    not cynicism \u2014 it's just an acknowledgment that businesses don't have the
    same freedom of choice that an individual does. </em>\r\n\r\nI think that presumes
    a particular model of a business, which is the corporation that, by legal fiction,
    is a 'person', thereby isolating the <em>actual persons</em> who are the owners,
    officers and staff of that corporation, both legally and psychologically, from
    responsibility for the <em>actual choices</em> that they make. Other models of
    business have existed and continue to exist. New models of business are possible.
    The corporation model is as widespread as it is because it maximises profit and
    power for the people who create corporations and who through both direct and indirect
    means shape government policy and legislation to favour that model, while minimising
    their exposure to being held individually responsible for their activities. The
    most pernicious aspect of this seems to me the way in which the model infiltrates
    all areas of social life, entangling the citizenry as well as the government in
    its mechanisms, e.g. through RSP contributions, which effectively make it impossible
    for people to financially provide for their old age without engaging with the
    stock market mechanism."
  created: '2011-06-01 21:16:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>So the issue of employee treatment is an issue world wide and across
    many companies.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course, which is why -- contra David -- I'm not
    'blaming Apple', they just happen to have provided the recent media flashpoint
    for exposure of Foxconn's labour practices, and their massive cash reserve means
    that they can hardly make the claim that they can't afford other options or that
    they're only observing their responsibility to shareholders.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nDavid:
    <em>If you want to imagine my picture of the horror: the Han are going to work
    their minorities to death in display factories from Tolkien's dark side because
    font formats are too stupidly deployed to help anyone, except the dickheads who
    believe in rendering and resolution competition.</em>\r\n\r\n...which is every
    software and hardware company. Do you see any of them not treating rendering and
    resolution as areas of competition?\r\n\r\nThanks for your picture of the horror,
    but I don't think Orwell's needs to be replaced.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If you want
    a vision of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face \u2014 forever.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    notion that a change in font format deployment or rendering standardisation could
    'help anyone' in terms of the treatment of indentured factory labour in China
    is laughable.\r\n\r\nThe original question is this thread regarded what kinds
    of social responsibility might be appropriate or particular to type designers.
    Now, I think you can and perhaps should make a case for standardisation of screen
    rendering and font display as a social responsibility, and I would likely sign
    up to that. Once again, I do <em>not</em> think competition in that area is beneficial
    to readers and have only ever pointed out that the software companies persist
    in treating it as an area of competition so you/we would have a long hill to climb,
    and I wouldn't give good odds on reaching the summit.\r\n\r\nBut I think that
    there are more basic issues of social responsibility -- not particular to type
    designers, and nothing whatever to do with fonts and screens -- that have to do
    with how we organise our working lives and our relationships with those we work
    with, work for or who work for us, as the case may be. As I wrote near the beginning
    of the thread, I don't think there is necessarily a single mode of working that
    is 'socially responsible', but a) modes of work should be subject to critique
    on the basis of concepts of social responsibility, and b) individuals should try
    to order their own working relationships in ways that correspond to their beliefs.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nHrant:
    <em>China is very materialistic ... but it's not capitalistic.</em>\r\n\r\nDo
    the workers in the factories own the means of production? No, they do not. The
    means of production are owned by the owners of capital, whether Chinese or foreign,
    or by the state, which operates in a global capital market. So of course China
    is capitalist. They're authoritarian state capitalist instead of democratic liberal
    capitalist, but they're in the same business of directing the lives of billions
    of human beings to create wealth for the benefit of the owners of capital."
  created: '2011-06-01 21:17:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">My point was only that rationally operated businesses will never choose
    a socially valuable option that doesn't also lead to profit. And that's not cynicism
    \u2014 it's just an acknowledgment that businesses don't have the same freedom
    of choice that an individual does. \r\n\r\nYour first point is accurate, but it
    leaves out the question of time and risk, which are critical. You may risk less
    profit for the sake of good treatment of your employees, or the good of the community.
    And you may think there is a good chance that as a result your long term profit
    will be satisfactory, or even better.\r\n\r\nBut the most important thing is whether
    you are *only* trying to solve the problem of profit or *also* trying to be at
    the very least ethical, and at most to be helpful to others beyond the company.
    So the question is whether you look for ethical solutions, and what risks you
    are willing to take for their sake. The fact that any responsible business leader
    needs to see that he or she continues to have cash or credit to operate doesn't
    make the ethical dimension irrelevant. \r\n\r\nFeuerstein emphasized that responsible
    leadership of a business involves both profit and ethics. He never considered
    just one, but always both. And his long term success in both shows that it is
    possible to combine the two. \r\n\r\nAs far as capitalism goes, when I have discussed
    the case of Feuerstein with others, some have argued that it was critical Feuerstein
    owned the business himself. Because of that, he had a lifetime and beyond time
    horizon, whereas often managers of publicly owned companies are only looking to
    boost their stock price in the short term, so they can cash out in a few years.
    For example the GM management seems to have plundered the company for decades,
    sacrificing both employees and long term profit.  \r\n\r\nSo to me just talking
    about capitalism misses the more profound issue of the structure of ownership
    and its relations to other laws and institutions in the society. \r\n\r\nI know
    enough about the complexity of China not to make pronouncements. David, I think
    that most factory workers in China are Han Chinese\u201492% of the population\u2014not
    minorities. Huge numbers are migrant workers, often without residence permits,
    which is a huge social problem.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 22:17:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Matthew: <em>My point was only that rationally operated businesses will never
    choose a socially valuable option that doesn't also lead to profit.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think we disagree. My nuance was that social responsibility, as practised
    by companies that make this a matter of policy rather than a matter of public
    relations, affects the kind and levels of profit that are obtainable. What might
    be termed the classical capitalist approach to profit was succinctly expressed
    in 1911 at the shareholder meeting of the American Woolen Company\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Any
    man who pays more for labour than the lowest sum he can get them for is robbing
    his stockholders. If he can secure men for $6 and pays more, he is stealing from
    the company.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd more recently by Milton Friedman, with the
    scare tactic that anything other than maximum profit is an assault on freedom
    -- tell that to the millions in indentured slavery:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Few trends
    could so thoroughly undermine the very foundation of our free society as the acceptance
    by corporate officials of a social responsibility other than to make as much money
    for their stockholders as possible.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut various kinds of businesses
    now operate with the specific policy of ensuring a reasonable income -- a living
    wage or a proportionate share of profit -- to the workers whose labour generates
    the wealth, and they do so specifically <em>to attract shareholders who care about
    such things.</em> Yes, the intent remains to make a profit, but the same shareholders
    could just as easily invest in other companies with higher returns. They choose
    a lower profit in return for knowing that their money is contributing to a social
    good, or at least is not contributing to the misery of another human being."
  created: '2011-06-02 04:05:10'
- author:
    name: chaosakita
  body: "Well, has this conversation so quickly degenerated into attacking other people's
    political views? Then I might as well jump into the fray...\r\n\r\nCan font-making
    be socially responsible? I guess. But personally, I say, give me a break. I understand
    that fontmaking is an art that requires a great deal of time. But I think this
    is exactly what throws it off from being socially responsible. Who buys fonts?
    Not me - I can certainly not afford to buy 100 or so glyphs for the cost of $30
    a buck, especially when there's a lot of free ones available, even if their y's
    tail isn't perfect or something. In that case, professional fontmaking is already
    a creator of elitism. But anyways, it's presumably graphic design businesses who
    are trying to make a profit by virtue of being a business. So it's the patronized
    artists judging everyone else. Except in this case, 99.9% of people don't realize
    fontmakers are artists at all.\r\n\r\nAnd I think another problem is that if a
    font maker is socially responsible with their works, there's nothing stopping
    someone from doing something with another font, especially when the big-name fonts
    have no such limitations. It's like a guitar-maker needing to stop someone from
    making bad music with that guitar, when plenty of other guitars are available.\r\n\r\nAnd
    to all of you who denigrate capitalism, what do you think is suitable for replacing
    it? Anarcho-communism, isn't it? Hm..."
  created: '2011-06-02 09:02:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, I have to wonder why you even asked the question. And why you stated
    at the start: \"i think the typeface designer need social responsibility too\".
    Very strange.\r\n\r\n> I understand that fontmaking is an art\r\n\r\nNow <em>that</em>
    is an insult.\r\n\r\nIt's true that most people don't realize fonts are made by
    people and are worth something. However certain people, enough people do consider
    the craft valuable, and do pay for fonts - in fact some people pay quite a bit
    of money for them. And the number of people doing so has been gradually going
    up.\r\n\r\n> I can certainly not afford to buy 100 or so glyphs for the cost of
    $30\r\n\r\nAllow me to ask:\r\n- What do you do in your life?\r\n- What can/do
    you afford?\r\n\r\n> what do you think is suitable for replacing it?\r\n\r\nBenign
    monarchy. But I'm not going to get into such an argument with somebody who probably
    shouldn't be here. Oh, and make sure you don't include \"typography\" in your
    alleged r\xE9sum\xE9.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-02 14:14:07'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "chaosakita , <cite>In that case, professional fontmaking is already a creator
    of elitism.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, strive to be average.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>capitalism</cite>\r\n\r\nLike
    any religion, there are many possible models of capitalism one could design, but
    the articles of faith of true believers won't allow such thoughts. It is either
    pray to Wall Street or the Bolsheviks. \r\n\r\nThe current 'capitalism' is not
    really capitalism at all. It is corporatism. Actual capitalists tend to get squashed.
    \r\n\r\n(BTW, isn't the hatred of elitism antithetical to capitalism? Sounds kinda
    Bolshevistic.)"
  created: '2011-06-02 14:34:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The current 'capitalism' is not really capitalism at all. It is corporatism.
    Actual capitalists tend to get squashed. </em>\r\n\r\nActually, corporations and
    Capitalism as a defined economic system began around the same time, in the mid-seventeenth
    century. It is merely the dominant form of Capitalism which has changed: first,
    Mercantile Capitalism, followed by Agrarian Capitalism, then Industrial Capitalism
    and, now, the emergent Finance Capitalism. The first owned the \"means of production\"
    in the form of transport vehicles; the second in the form of land and chattel
    slaves; the third, in the form of factories and wage slaves; and the last, in
    the form of holding all of the Aces in the Houses of Cards they are constantly
    constructing, then knocking down."
  created: '2011-06-02 16:39:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">The notion that a change in font format deployment or rendering standardisation
    could 'help anyone' ... is laughable.\r\n\r\nCool, but maybe it will be a good
    idea to revisit the hilarity when MS and entourage have slaked their enormous
    and growing thirst for highq res mobility and the results are in on less than
    adaquate OS font software vs humanity? The high res output low font tech horses
    were out of the barn some time ago, occupied the densest grass, and there aint
    enough for everyone without more Mordors.\r\n\r\nYou are suggesting none  (less
    actually), as the amount of social responsiblility we have to advise the OS to
    Have and Promote Better Options for Low Resolution Use, to both improve reading
    experience, and discourage The Need for screens with more and more and more, and
    you always have. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-02 17:25:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have to agree that the better the fonts, the less people would waste on
    resolution.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-02 17:28:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Currently, all successful economies are mixed economies with both large government
    and private sectors. The real question is how to make mixed economies work best\u2014it
    is a huge question, and and incredible amount of time is wasted on outdated debates
    of left vs right.  "
  created: '2011-06-02 18:05:16'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes, I think so, based on the basic economic principle
    that people aren't going to buy something which is free; and, according to my
    reading of the Competition Act, it also illegal in Canada, and probably many other
    countries that have fair trade laws.</cite>\r\n\r\nBased on that, not only is
    it illegal to include <em>fonts</em> with a copy of Microsoft Windows, it's also
    illegal to include Notepad, WordPad, or Solitare with Windows.\r\n\r\nAnd if they
    didn't include a copy of Internet Explorer with Windows, just how would I download
    Firefox? Oh, I suppose I could dig out a CD with an old copy of WS-FTP, and hope
    that I could look up the address of Mozilla's FTP site in a book in the library...
    actually, of course, I could always use an older computer with a copy of Netscape
    3.1 on it, but not everyone has more than one computer.\r\n\r\nIt can, therefore,
    be argued that fonts are <em>essential</em> to the functioning of an operating
    system - and, in fact, <em>some</em> fonts - at least bitmapped ones, if not TrueType
    ones, certainly are because in Windows (as opposed to DOS) you wouldn't be able
    to see what you're typing on the screen without one - and thus including a typestyle
    with an operating system is as natural as doing so with a <em>typewriter</em>.\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, this would likely drum up more business for the free amateur font sites
    - and more people would download open-source fonts - in fact, the end result would
    probably be that something like the TeX Gyre collection would become the standard
    instead of what Microsoft provides.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's those commercial 1001
    font CDs. Finally, money actually changing hands. <em>There</em> you are. The
    economic beneficiary of what you're proposing.\r\n\r\nNot - in a million years
    - real type designers like you.\r\n\r\nIt is true that you could charge lower
    prices for your fonts if many more people were buying them. So, maybe \"real\"
    type foundries could charge prices low enough that the 1001 font CDs wouldn't
    come into being. Even that wouldn't help you much, because the only people inconvenienced
    by fonts not coming with Windows... would be looking for the old standbys. Times
    Roman, Garamond, Baskerville, Bodoni, Caledonia, Optima, Helvetica, Univers, Franklin
    Gothic, News Gothic, Goudy Old Style, Albertus, Peignot... and so on and so forth...
    and if Papyrus were thrown in, they wouldn't sneeze at it.\r\n\r\nAnything new
    or original... would be the province of professional typographers that feel themselves
    qualified to judge the merits of that which is new and original.\r\n\r\n@dberlow:\r\n<cite>the
    Han are going to work their minorities to death in display factories from Tolkien's
    dark side</cite>\r\n\r\nI am no fan of the regime in the People's Republic of
    China, nor of their treatment of Tibetans and Uighurs. However, the overwhelming
    majority of employees in factories producing cheap products for export from China
    <em>are</em> ethnic Han Chinese - and even speakers of Mandarin.\r\n\r\nChina
    is far too poor, and too populous, for only its minorities to be working long
    hours for a pittance while everyone else gets paid decently for their work. Compared
    to the peasants working the land - also mostly Han - the ones exploited in the
    factories are the lucky ones."
  created: '2011-06-03 02:39:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>You are suggesting none (less actually), as the amount of social
    responsiblility we have to advise the OS to Have and Promote Better Options for
    Low Resolution Use, to both improve reading experience, and discourage The Need
    for screens with more and more and more, and you always have.</em>\r\n\r\nThere's
    the not inconsiderable matter of high def video and games, which are very much
    driving all aspects of hardware development today (cf. the Open Font Format spec
    being part of the MPEG4 video format). Indeed, the mess that we've ended up with
    in type rendering is only part of the fallout of that video/game driven push.
    The poor scalability of most desktop OS user interfaces to high resolution is
    another byproduct: simply put, the resolution requirements for games and video
    have already marched far beyond the capabilities of legacy OS design. More and
    more and more pixels per inch is happening regardless of typography, and better
    options for low resolution typography is not going to discourage that one little
    bit.\r\n\r\nAs to advising OS makers, I tell all my client upfront what will and
    will not work with the software environments they are proposing to use, whether
    they built those environments themselves or not, and what would be necessary for
    font makers to be able to truly optimise for screen reading experience. And if
    they're OS makers, they invariably say 'Yes, we understand, but this is what we're
    doing...'. And what they are doing is pushing higher resolutions and faster hardware,
    presumably because new hardware, high def video, and games games games is where
    the money is (cf. Matthew's comment re. rationally operated businesses). Since
    they believe that some magic threshold resolution will also solve the type rendering
    mess, they perhaps consider that <em>not</em> investing in improving low resolution
    type display is actually solving the problem by encouraging it to go away, eventually,
    maybe one day.\r\n\r\nI'm not spending my time advocating better use of low resolution
    for type because I consider it futile given all the factors driving high resolution,
    not because I disagree with you that it would be worthwhile if type were the only
    factor to consider. You may be right about absolutely everything, David, -- I
    respect you enough to consider it a credible possibility -- but I still think
    your being right would have absolutely no effect on the course being steered by
    them over there."
  created: '2011-06-03 06:06:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> There's the not inconsiderable matter of high def video and games...\r\n\r\nConsidered
    thanks. Screens, processors, connections and OS <em>have evolved</em> to the also-evolved
    resolution requirements of games and video.\r\n\r\nJH>...better options for low
    resolution typography is not going to discourage that one little bit.\r\n\r\nText
    typography has, and probably will continue to have, undue leverage way beyond
    my futile efforts. Most of the time John, I just have to wait. \r\n\r\nJH> ...but
    I still think your being right would have absolutely no effect on the course being
    steered by them over there.\r\n\r\nDo you mean the \"them over there\" who need
    more ppm than us to read text?\r\n\r\nq> Compared to the peasants working the
    land - also mostly Han - the ones exploited in the factories are the lucky ones.\r\n\r\nIn
    that case, I owe and give the largest possible apology in the world.\r\n "
  created: '2011-06-03 13:43:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-13647438\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-03 17:43:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Most of the time John, I just have to wait.</em>\r\n\r\nLikewise.
    I propose we drink some nice wine, eat some fine southern food, and listen to
    New Orleans jazz while we're waiting."
  created: '2011-06-03 19:12:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "quadibloc: <em>Compared to the peasants working the land - also mostly Han
    - the ones exploited in the factories are the lucky ones.</em>\r\n\r\nAs in periods
    of early industrialisation elsewhere, the distinction in China between peasants
    and factory workers isn't a clean one. Just as many of the women working in the
    textile mills of Massachusetts a hundred years ago were farm girls, working in
    the off-season or for just long enough to save some money and improve their marriage
    prospects back home, so there is a huge contingent of peasants in China who spend
    part of each year working in factories, mines or other industrial labour to augment
    their income. An interesting situation arose some years ago in which companies
    were trying to keep these workers in the factories and dissuade them from going
    home to their villages for the traditional Spring Festival by withholding their
    wages. The government stepped in, interestingly, on the side of the peasant workers,
    introducing regulations that required companies to pay the workers in time for
    them to go home. This speaks to something that is overlooked if you think about
    the 'luck' of factory workers vs. peasants only in terms of relative income: there
    is a long-standing tradition of popular protest among the peasants -- there are
    thousands of local protests across China every year recently, against local corruption,
    loss of arable land to industry, commodity pricing, etc. -- and the government
    frequently tries to accommodate the farmers' demands, most commonly by replacing
    local Party officials, because ultimately they need the farmers to feed the population.
    The government also recognises that allowing the peasant workers to return to
    their villages with the money they have been able to save from factory work contributes
    to local economies. The relationship between land and city in China is still a
    lot more fluid than it has become in North America and Europe."
  created: '2011-06-03 21:18:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, while some Chinese migrant workers to go back and forth, many of them
    stay in the city except for the week long holidays of Chinese New Year and National
    Day. And many families are separated for very long periods\u2014a heartbreaking
    situation that most of us can't imagine putting up with, but which is common in
    China. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.china-labour.org.hk/en/node/100259|Here is a pretty
    informative article about the Chinese labor situation and migrant workers.]] \r\n\r\nAs
    to whether they are better off in factories, the wages are so much better in these
    than in farm work the people keep coming into the cities, 13 million a year [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Migrant_worker#China|according
    to the Wikipedia.]] The factories are, as you can see in the article, not fun
    places to work. But how many have dangerous conditions, I don't know. The organization
    I linked to, in Hong Kong, has extensive information. \r\n\r\nOne of the biggest
    issues in China with migrants concerns the houkou, the residence permit. Starting
    in the '50s you had have one to get a ration card and government services\u2014in
    the place where you live only. Now people are streaming into the cities without
    a residence permit, and their are threatening to become a second lower class of
    citizen, because their children don't have a right to attend the state schools,
    and every other kind of government service. Even though they are internal migrants,
    their situation is similar to illegal central American immigrants into the US,
    but the numbers are not in the millions, but hundreds of millions. \r\n\r\nThe
    government of China is extremely worried about how to deal with this problem,
    and has taken steps to improve the lot of waidi, those without a permit. But the
    permit system is still on place. Abolishing it would mean the cities would have
    to provide schooling and other services for all the migrants, so it is not a trivial
    thing to do. \r\n \r\n  "
  created: '2011-06-03 23:10:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: A hundred years ago, many American factory workers were locked inside the
    factory after their shifts began at 6:30 a.m., and weren't released until the
    end of their day at 7:00 pm. Also, it wasn't uncommon for the National Guard to
    be called out to break up strikes.
  created: '2011-06-03 23:28:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, thanks for the additional details: I appreciate your superior knowledge
    of China.\r\n\r\nOldnick, those kinds of labour practices persist in many parts
    of the world. In fact, they persist wherever companies can get away with them,
    and it certainly wasn't a voluntary change that brought an end to such practices
    in the US. Corporate interests in America continue to try to roll back fair labour
    legislation, as the folk of Wisconsin recently discovered, in the process <a href=\"http://www.smartcitymemphis.com/2011/05/european-companies-slumming-in-america/\">attracting
    European companies to operate in America in ways in which they would never do
    at home</a>."
  created: '2011-06-03 23:56:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">there are thousands of local protests across China every year\r\n\r\nyawn,\r\n\r\n>a
    heartbreaking situation that most of us can't imagine putting up with\r\n\r\nyawn,\r\n\r\n>A
    hundred years ago, many American factory workers\r\n\r\nreally big yawn,\r\n\r\n>as
    the folk of Wisconsin recently discovered,\r\n\r\nCheeseheaded yawn. Recently?
    And Wisconsin is home to a very large and diversified manufacturing economy, with
    special focus on transportation and capital equipment, (read: heavy industry),
    while still producing 1/4 of the cheese in the U.S. And the National Forest Products
    Research Center is there too, Get it? Massive historical interest in diversified
    sustainability.\r\n\r\nWhat I hear though, is if you can't solve everything back
    to the Roman Empire with font tech, then forget it.;)\r\n\r\nWhen I last toured
    China with the Bentley, in the late spring of 96 I think, both foundries had fully
    integrated \"the other use of Fog 3's source\", to create an environment where
    2 designers could do 1 JIS level worth o glyphs in two months. They were following
    a path to hint-able fonts, but had not yet integrated that. \r\n\r\nWhen I arrived
    at the second foundry, in the countryside of the big China, they were cutting
    punches and stereotyping on the ground level, and on dancing break from their
    Macs in their white lab coats upstairs. I hope all's well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 14:12:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>it certainly wasn't a voluntary change that brought an end to such practices
    in the US. Corporate interests in America continue to try to roll back fair labour
    legislation</em>\r\n\r\nReally big yawns notwithstanding, the latest figures I've
    seen (from February of this year) estimate that American businesses are holding
    on to almost two TRILLION dollars of cash (enough money to eradicate world hunger
    ENTIRELY for ten years), while thirteen million-plus American workers are out
    of jobs. Furthermore, tight credit is preventing many small businesses--the traditional
    creators of new jobs--from obtaining money to do what they do best. It is very
    difficult not to see these two trends as a concerted effort by big business to
    do exactly what John suggests..."
  created: '2011-06-04 18:01:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Would you want to sink your money into starting a new business at a time
    when so many people are out of work, or saving every penny they can so that they
    can manage if they do lose their jobs?\r\n\r\nIf I tried to spend two trillion
    dollars on eradicating world hunger, would it work, or would it only drive up
    the price of food? (Food is produced on farmland, not in factories: you can build
    more factories, but when it comes to arable land, Mark Twain's advice on investing
    in real estate comes to mind.)\r\n\r\nMost famines are caused by wars preventing
    food from getting to people who need it, since the \"green revolution\" was actually
    a success, not a failure - as is only recently coming out, as Norman Borlaug is
    finally receiving his due credit.\r\n\r\nCountries like Zimbabwe are desperately
    poor because the government confiscates wealth from productive businesses to give
    to the tribes that prop up the dictatorship militarily - so no one would be helped
    by the U.S. following its example.\r\n\r\nReasonable and equitable taxes, some
    of which are spent on foreign aid and domestic poor relief, however, do have a
    place. The distribution of wealth and income in the early 1960s represented a
    healthy society, and we have moved to dysfunctionality in this area. But noting
    that American businesses have X amount of dollars in hand in a context implying
    that the best thing the government could do is grab it all will only promote notions
    that don't help anyone."
  created: '2011-06-05 00:41:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "quadibloc: <em>But noting that American businesses have X amount of dollars
    in hand in a context implying that the best thing the government could do is grab
    it all will only promote notions that don't help anyone.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    anyone implied a that a government grab of corporate wealth would be the best
    thing, despite the binary choice of unfettered capitalism or state socialism presented
    as the only options by Fox News. Oldnick's solution, insofar as he implied anything
    at all, would seem to involve increasing credit to small businesses.\r\n\r\nI
    didn't take his statement about eradicating world hunger to be a suggestion that
    the money could be effectively employed in this way, let alone that it was up
    to some government to do this: I took him simply to be giving an impression of
    the size of the sum involved. For most people, two trillion dollars isn't a sum
    that is easy to relate to any exchangeable notion.\r\n\r\nNote also that he said
    hunger, not famine. Most people in the world who suffer from hunger and malnutrition
    (not always the same thing) are not in a state of famine, they're just too poor
    to afford enough to eat, or the right sort of food, or to have access to land
    on which to grow their own food. They may live in countries that produce and export
    huge amounts of food to the rest of the world, even work in agriculture in those
    countries -- usually for foreign owned corporations --, and still suffer from
    malnutrition due to not being paid a living wage. The <a href=\"http://www.guardian.co.uk/global-development/poverty-matters/2011/may/31/global-food-crisis-guatemala-system-failure\">recent
    Guardian article on Guatemala</a> presents a challenging picture of hunger in
    the midst of plenty.\r\n\r\nWith regard to the \u2018green revolution\u2019, yes
    it has been very successful in some areas, but more in terms of producing singular
    export crops than producing the diversity of things that local people need to
    eat and be healthy. This means it offers little in terms of food security. That
    kind of heavily mechanised agriculture is highly dependent on cheap energy sources
    and, hence, susceptible to the kinds of energy crises we seem likely to face in
    the near future as oil prices increase and alternative energy technologies only
    gradually become economically viable. This is true not only of the mechanisation
    of cultivation and harvesting, but also of the costs associated with transport
    of produce to markets.\r\n\r\nPrior to the collapse of the Soviet Union, Cuba
    had some of the most successful and intensive mechanised agriculture in the world,
    but almost over night they lost their access to subsidised fuels -- as well as
    to the chemical fertilizers on which the intensive farming relied -- and simply
    in order to feed themselves were obliged to break that system down, encourage
    local sustainable agricultural practices, cultivate land within cities to reduce
    the distance from field to market, etc."
  created: '2011-06-05 01:32:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, calling Cuban agriculture under the Soviet subsidy a success is highly
    misleading, to say the least. [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agriculture_in_Cuba#History|According
    to the Wikipedia]] the Soviet Union paid five times the world price for Cuban
    sugar. It's like saying that a mistress who is well supported by her rich sugar
    daddy is a success as a \"secretary\" though she can't type. As soon as the sugar
    daddy is gone, suddenly she's an incompetent secretary; and suddenly with it's
    sugar daddy gone, Cuba is a failed agriculture. I'm sure both can find excuses,
    but they aren't credible. \r\n\r\nFor a world survey that identifies the necessary
    conditions for successful agricultural transformation, including in China, see
    [[http://www.cambridge.org/gb/knowledge/isbn/item6436529/?site_locale=en_GB|Success
    in Agricultural Transformation]] forthcoming later in the summer from Cambridge
    University Press. The book squashes the usual claims about agriculture by both
    right and left, and puts forward an account consistent with historical and world-wide
    experiences. I've had an early peak at the book because of being married to its
    author. "
  created: '2011-06-05 04:54:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "How one stops Third World governments from being subservient to the \"rich
    and powerful minority\" in those countries is, of course the crucial question.
    Apart from a return to colonialism (hopefully enlightened this time), or a political
    transformation to stable democracy (which happens after, and as a result of, the
    emergence of a middle class... and if that middle class is not to be the very
    \"rich and powerful minority\" that prevents a sustained commitment to improving
    agriculture, that means the transformation would have to have already taken place...)
    it seems there is little that can be done.\r\n\r\nForeign aid is not done because
    we know it works well; we know it works poorly, but it helps a little and it's
    all we <em>can</em> do. None the less, I think the book of which your wife is
    a co-author will still provide helpful insights, though we may have so little
    chance to use them."
  created: '2011-06-05 05:07:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, I referred to the successful implementation of intensive mechanised
    and chemical dependent agriculture in Cuba, i.e. to the extent of its implementation
    of the so-called green revolution, not to its economic success which, as you say,
    was heavily subsidised by the Soviet Union. But no measure can be made of the
    success or failure of Cuban agriculture or, indeed, any other aspect of their
    economy, independent of Cold War politics. Yes, the Soviets were paying well over
    the market price for Cuban sugar, but on the other hand the US market was closed
    to the sugar because of the embargo. Whatever the economic realities of the Cuban
    situation, my point was that they had massively implemented industrialised agriculture,
    and that entire system collapsed and had to be rapidly replaced during the \u2018special
    period\u2019 following the collapse of the Soviet Union because agriculture that
    is dependent on petroleum fueled machinery, imported chemical fertilisers, and
    export crops is intrinsically insecure and cannot be relied upon to feed the local
    population in times of crisis.\r\n\r\nI live on an island. Food security is becoming
    an important issue here as rising fuel and ferry costs increase the costs of importing
    produce. Fifty years ago, the island was a net exporter of food to nearby cities,
    but the illusory ease of bringing food from elsewhere has created a situation
    which something like 85% of our food comes from elsewhere. Many islanders are
    now beginning to realise this offers poor food security. We live in a world in
    which some people are prevented from growing food to feed themselves because their
    local land is being used by transnational corporations to grow food for export,
    and other people are being discouraged from growing their own food in order to
    be a market for that food brought from elsewhere. This, in my opinion, is insane.
    Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go see if the potatoes need watering."
  created: '2011-06-05 05:51:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The problem with failed third world governments is that they steal from their
    people rather than investing in them. How to make political change to better governments
    is, as Quadribloc notes, the biggest problem. Perhaps such a change is now happening
    in some Arab countries, but it is too early to say. \r\n\r\nJohn, the failure
    of Cuban agriculture was not just a matter of cold war rivalry, but that the Soviets
    failed to understand agriculture, and had bad policies, starting with the idea
    of socialist agriculture itself, which has failed massively everywhere it has
    been tried. \r\n\r\nThe Soviets, my wife says, were under the delusion that mechanization
    is the whole solution to the problem of agriculture. Produce tractors and all
    is solved. This also didn't work in the Soviet Union. And poor countries other
    than Cuba successfully implemented and have sustained the Green revolution, unlike
    Cuba.\r\n\r\nAs for people being officially discouraged (I'm not talking about
    market forces) from growing their own food in Canada, you've got to be kidding.
    Enjoy the potatoes :) "
  created: '2011-06-05 16:45:07'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Apart from a return to colonialism...or a political transformation to
    stable democracy (which happens after, and as a result of, the emergence of a
    middle class...it seems there is little that can be done.</em>\r\n\r\nMuch of
    the ethnic and sectarian strife rampant in the world today is a direct result
    of Colonialism, which created geopolitical fictions (nation-states) to suit the
    administrative needs of Colonialism, a.k.a. Mercantile Capitalism. Even today,
    the \"First World\" strives to maintain these fictions in order to maintain access
    to the fictions' natural resources. The United States' current misadventure in
    Afghanistan has nothing to do with establishing democracy, and everything to do
    with trying to secure access to the trillion dollars or so worth of estimated
    mineral wealth within the country's borders."
  created: '2011-06-05 16:50:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@oldnick:\r\n<cite>The United States' current misadventure in Afghanistan
    has nothing to do with establishing democracy, and everything to do with trying
    to secure access to the trillion dollars or so worth of estimated mineral wealth
    within the country's borders.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd here I thought that the United
    States' activities in Afghanistan were all about ensuring the area does not become
    a staging area for al-Qaeda and its Taliban allies.\r\n\r\nIt certainly is true
    that trying to establish \"democracy\" in Afghanistan would be difficult, as apparently
    a majority of the men there are not willing to accept a truly democratic state
    with full equal rights for women and non-Muslims.\r\n\r\nAs for its mineral wealth
    - of course the country should be made so peaceful and quiet that multinationals
    can come in and mine. Would you rather that the people of Afghanistan starve to
    death? It's not as if the country can produce enough food to feed itself; nor
    does it have an educated population that could work in factories the way they
    do in South Korea, to earn money to import food.\r\n\r\nWhat else is left? After
    all, it's not as if growing opium to export to the illegal drug trade can be tolerated
    as an option - allowing that to continue would be rightly and legitimately viewed
    as an act of war against the countries whose social systems are menaced by the
    drug trade."
  created: '2011-06-05 20:39:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@quadibloc:\r\n\r\nThe Afghanis, time and again since the First Anglo-Afghan
    War of 1839-1842, have made it <em>abundantly</em> clear that they do not want
    to have anything to do with the modern world, thank you very much, so all of your
    arguments about somehow bettering their lives are specious.\r\n\r\nAnd what you
    <em>thought</em> about the cause of the United States' involvement in Afghanistan
    is precisely what the powers that be <em>want</em> you to think, just as they
    promulgate the myth that the American Civil War was fought to end the<em> moral</em>
    evils of chattel slavery (which it was not; it was fought to remove the impediments
    to Industrial expansion that the Plantation System presented); or that the Vietnam
    War was fought to \"liberate\" the Vietnamese people from leftist rebels (which
    it was not; the U.S. was asked to step in to continue the brutal oppression of
    the Vietnamese people instigated by the French in order to maintain access to
    the country's troves of \"glamor metals\"); or that, for many years, the United
    States supported right-wing autocrats in Central and South America to stanch the
    spread of Communism (which they did not; they weren't called \"banana republics\"
    for nothing).\r\n\r\nFinally, \"the countries whose social systems are menaced
    by the drug trade\" are menaced because, in their moral rectitude, those countries
    choose to pursue a policy of prosecuting what are essentially victimless \"crimes,\"
    primarily at the behest of manufacturers of alcoholic beverages, despite the fact
    that the Centers for Disease Control estimates that about 75,000 Americans die
    each year from alcohol-related causes, and absolutely none--as far as they can
    determine--die from marijuana-related causes..."
  created: '2011-06-05 21:56:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Would you rather that the people of Afghanistan starve to death?\r\n\r\nYou
    and I might not want that, but for multinationals\r\nthat's exactly the sort of
    trade-off to be made for money!  :-/\r\n\r\nTaliban? Awesome excuse! And maybe
    more like Pearl Harbor than we know...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 05:38:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Afghanistan? It's surely mostly about the natural gas pipeline.
  created: '2011-06-06 05:44:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>As for people being officially discouraged (I'm not talking about
    market forces) from growing their own food in Canada...</em>\r\n\r\nI <em>am</em>
    talking about market forces, which I do not understand as impersonal forces but
    as the results of specific policies of owners of capital, who not only exploit
    situations but create situations to be exploited. These policies create the circumstances
    in which it is massively easier and often cheaper, due to subsidies, for people
    to buy food rather than grow it. After a day's work, most people are too tired
    to put in the extra effort to grow their own food, and most have nowhere to grow
    it since they do not own land and the commons are virtually extinct. It is in
    the interest of the owners of capital for workers to spend most waking daylight
    hours, year round, working for wages; it is in their interest for workers to be
    paying rent rather than owning property; it is in their interest for workers to
    be buying all their food rather than growing it; it is in their interest for people
    to be dependent on commercial sources of everything they consume rather than becoming
    in various ways and to various degrees self-sufficient. So the owners of capital
    create these situations, so that they may exploit them to their interest. It is
    convenient to ascribe the creation of these situations to impersonal market forces
    rather than to the deliberate policies of individuals, just as it is convenient
    to pretend that a corporation is a person to shield individuals from responsibility
    for their decisions. I'm not buying it.\r\n\r\n<em>And poor countries other than
    Cuba successfully implemented and have sustained the Green revolution, unlike
    Cuba.</em>\r\n\r\nBill, again, what is specific to the Cuban special period, and
    what was central to the point I was making, was the sudden failure of their sources
    of fuel and agricultural chemicals. I was not arguing that the intensive agriculture
    of the Soviet-subsidised era was a success in some kind of neutral economic evaluation
    -- but show me agriculture in a capitalist industrialised country that isn't subsidised
    --, and I only, inadvisedly, used the word 'successful' to refer to the <em>extent
    of the implementation.</em> What I meant wasn't that it was all a splendid success
    but that it was indeed intensive, widespread, and constituted almost all of Cuba's
    agricultural activity during that period. But in order for the Cuban people to
    avoid starvation, the entire system had to be scrapped as soon as fuel and fertiliser
    sources failed, and I don't see any reason to think that the situation would be
    otherwise anywhere else that such sources failed, regardless of the relative success
    of the green revolution in other terms.\r\n\r\nThis is the point: the green revolution
    relies on technologies and resources that are not intrinsic to the growing of
    food, hence it links the security of food production to the security of the availability
    and affordability of those technologies and resources. And that makes for poor
    food security. In Cuba, the response to the crisis is well worth looking at, not
    least in that it required dismantling of centralised state control and the development
    of small-scale local food production and distribution; re-introduction of private
    ownership of farm land by farmers; development of widespread urban food production;
    and implementation, by necessity, of organic and permaculture growing methods.
    Interestingly, although the period of immediate crisis passed and, thanks to Chavez,
    they have a reliable source of fuel again, the Cubans show little interest in
    returning to large-scale industrialised agriculture. Indeed, Cuba has become a
    destination for people seeking to learn about successful urban permaculture."
  created: '2011-06-06 05:47:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">show me agriculture in a capitalist industrialised country that isn't subsidised\r\n\r\nNeither
    Austrialian nor New Zealand agriculture are subsidized, and are industrialized
    and successful. In Australia, the subsidies were gradually reduced from the '70s
    until their complete removal in 2000. New Zealand went cold turkey in 1984, and
    it took ten years to adjust, but now they are thriving. Bruce Gardner, then assist.
    secty. of agriculture under Bush One helped write laws with a schedule for the
    removal of farm subsidies in the US. But congress reversed the schedules, and
    Bush Two went decisively against it. (Gardner was co-author of my wife's book,
    but he died suddenly, and she is now sole author; the book is dedicated to him.)
    \ \r\n\r\nAnd individuals don't decide on subsidies. Governments do, and they
    are rarely individual decisions. The market place is the result of many decisions\u2014of
    governments world wide, of producers and consumers. \r\n\r\nAgriculture is a very
    complicated subject. One starting point, which you seem not to concede, is that
    socialist agriculture has never been successful anywhere, including Cuba. \r\n\r\nAnd
    as Julia Child emphasized, organic permiculture cannot feed the world, so we need
    healthy scientific agriculture. "
  created: '2011-06-06 20:44:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>One starting point, which you seem not to concede, is that socialist
    agriculture has never been successful anywhere, including Cuba.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you reading what I am writing? I have not 'conceded' that because I never claimed
    otherwise. I used the term successful only in terms of the <em>extent</em> of
    the industrialisation of Cuban agriculture in the Soviet-supported period, i.e.
    to the 'successful' implementation of the policy of replacing of older agricultural
    modes, not the success of its outcome, which relied on an artificial economy and
    left the Cuban food supply vulnerable to rapid collapse. To clarify: I am not
    a fan of state socialist agricultural policy, any more than I am of their industrial
    or natural resource policies. [I do, however, have a lot of respect for self-collectivised
    and federated agriculture on the model of many Israeli kibbutz, the Ukraine during
    the brief Makhnovist period before the Bolshevik takeover (although in no way
    endorsing all of Makhno's actions), and the anarcho-syndicalist collectivisation
    in Catalonia and Aragon during the Spanish Revolution. The key difference between
    this and state socialist agriculture is that control is local: the people growing
    the crops are also managing the farms, and, in the best examples, the associations
    are voluntary and based on principles of subsidiarity.]\r\n\r\nYou have so far
    completely ignored the point I have now made twice regarding industrialised agriculture:
    it links food security to the security of fuel and chemical availability and affordability,
    not only in terms of cultivation and harvesting but also in terms of delivering
    produce to market (sometimes on the other side of the planet). In case you have
    not noticed, fuel prices are rising and hence food prices are rising. In response
    to rising petroleum prices, more and more agricultural land is being devoted to
    growing bio-fuels, further degrading food security.\r\n\r\nWith regard to 'healthy
    scientific agriculture', vs. 'organic permaculture': a) scientific does not always
    mean using chemical fertilisers, pesticides, etc., b) the best organic permaculture
    <em>is</em> scientific (in the sense of analytical, based on observation, measuring
    of yields, experiment), and c) there is an important place for small scale, local
    food production wherever it is possible, in terms of immediate food security,
    especially within cities*. It is not a question of being able to 'feed the world'
    with such methods alone, but of feeding more parts of the world in better ways,
    with lower environmental impact and with better food security, while being alert
    to the fact that this puts one at odds with a lot of very rich and powerful people
    who profit from packing and moving produce around the world, even as mountains
    of food are allowed to rot to manage supply relative to demand in particular markets
    while people are going hungry.\r\n\r\nWe also seem to be having trouble with the
    'healthy' part of the healthy scientific agriculture equation, both in terms of
    physical and environmental health -- unsurprisingly, spraying crops with poison
    ends up poisoning animals and humans; relying on biological monocultures instead
    of diversity creates vulnerabilities in our food supply -- and in terms of economic
    health and human freedom. In the past few decades, chemical companies have mostly
    monopolised the international seed business. A typical model consists of obliging
    farmers to purchase genetically modified seeds in order to be able to grow plants
    that will not be killed by the same company's chemical pesticides, and then prohibiting
    farmers from saving any seeds from the plants they grow, obliging them to buy
    new seeds every year. I think it is morally indefensible to prevent farmers from
    saving seeds and that, indeed, this requirement fundamentally changes the nature
    of farming and seeks to turn farmers into corporately licensed crop managers rather
    than independent producers of food making choices about what and when to grow
    and how to grow it. I do not consider that 'healthy'.\r\n\r\n\r\n*It is an irony
    of urban development that cities, importing most of their food from  outside,
    are almost always situated in areas of prime agricultural land with excellent
    growing conditions. This is because when they were first founded local food sources
    were considered crucial to any city. This was explicit in both the classical and
    mediaeval periods (read St Thomas Aquinas on town planning and food security).
    As a result, despite the overlay of buildings and streets, many cities continue
    to provide excellent opportunities for local food production. In times of war,
    it is common for public parks and other urban gardens to be turned over to food
    production -- in Canada they called them 'victory gardens' -- and I suppose the
    same thing will happen if fuel prices make it prohibitive to bring the current
    quantities of food from elsewhere."
  created: '2011-06-06 22:11:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">industrialised agriculture ...links food security to the security of fuel
    and chemical availability and affordability, not only in terms of cultivation
    and harvesting but also in terms of delivering produce to market \r\n\r\nSorry
    for my brevity. I'm not ignoring, I just preoccupied with other stuff. I'm glad
    you acknowledge the failure of state socialist agriculture. It wasn't clear to
    me, at least. \r\n\r\nYes, modern agriculture makes agriculture part of the whole
    industrial system. That is why it is much so more productive than pre-industrial
    agriculture. \r\n\r\nWhen I visited Mali and the village where my daughter was
    in the Peace Corps, I saw traditional agriculture in its awful reality. I learned
    the meaning of \"dirt poor.\" Without powered machines or fuel, they produced
    barely enough to eat. And then to make breakfast the women had to draw water (hand
    over hand) from a well and pound grain. They took 1 1/2 hours of hard labor just
    to make breakfast. \r\n\r\nIn Chinese countryside, I saw an immensely more sophisticated
    and productive agriculture, but still based on intensive hand labor. That is way
    ahead of Mali, but still has back-breaking labor for a life of poverty. That's
    the life that millions are escaping from to the cities every year. \r\n\r\nSo
    when you talk about organic gardens, I'm all for local food and personal growing
    as a supplement and enhancement. But to replace powered machinery, and chemical
    fertilizer and pesticides in agriculture, I think it's a romantic delusion. If
    you tried to feed and clothe yourself completely without using any fuel, commercial
    fertilizer or pesticides on your own land, you'd have little time for designing
    fonts, and you'd be much poorer. That would be a loss for both you and the world!\r\n\r\nThere
    are immense problems that have come with mechanized agriculture, but I don't think
    there is a good alternative to it. It has to be accepted as a necessity for a
    wealthy society, and made better. "
  created: '2011-06-07 03:55:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, we're closer to agreeing. Much depends, of course, on where you are
    in the world. In some places, it is always going to be more difficult to produce
    reliable levels of local food given climate and soil conditions. On the other
    hand, I live in a place that has historically been outrageously bountiful, supporting
    complex native societies -- of a kind more commonly associated with early agriculture
    -- almost completely on the basis of hunting and gathering (although they did
    practise clam husbandry, which is is pretty cool).\r\n\r\nStill I think you are
    overlooking the <em>vulnerability</em> of agriculture that is specifically linked
    to the availability and affordability of petroleum or other fossil fuels and chemical
    fertilizers and pesticides, in light of which local food and personal growing
    are not only supplements and enhancements but also the first line of defence against
    hunger in the event of disruptions to that availability and affordability.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was in high school, my best friend's father was an engineer specialising in
    human-powered agricultural machinery, much of it very simple but able to massively
    improve efficiency of traditional agriculture while not making people dependent
    on fossil fuels. Obviously E.F. Schumacher was a big influence. More recently,
    I came across the '<a href=\"http://www.theatlantic.com/life/archive/2011/03/a-mad-scientists-50-tools-for-sustainable-communities/72900/\">Global
    Village Construction Kit</a>': a modular system of relatively easy-to-build mechanical
    tools whose plans are open source. The goal is to provide modern comforts at a
    scale and cost which does not require disruption of traditional communities.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a tendency to try to globalise solutions to what are local particularities,
    and a tendency to treat solutions as either/or: you can't feed everyone everywhere
    with locally produced organic produce; ergo, agriculture everywhere should be
    mechanised and rely on chemical fertilizers. I know you can see the fallacy in
    that."
  created: '2011-06-07 05:38:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>After a day's work, most people are too tired to put
    in the extra effort to grow their own food, and most have nowhere to grow it since
    they do not own land and the commons are virtually extinct. It is in the interest
    of the owners of capital for workers to spend most waking daylight hours, year
    round, working for wages; it is in their interest for workers to be paying rent
    rather than owning property; it is in their interest for workers to be buying
    all their food rather than growing it; it is in their interest for people to be
    dependent on commercial sources of everything they consume rather than becoming
    in various ways and to various degrees self-sufficient.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou are
    certainly describing the real situation most people find themselves in here. But
    I take issue with your description of the cause.\r\n\r\nIt would make things very
    simple if all of life's problems could be attributed to the machinations of a
    few evil villains, who could be brought to justice, and then the problems would
    be solved. But while some problems are the work of wicked men, other problems
    are more complicated.\r\n\r\nWhy isn't the United States in a situation where
    the commons is <em>not</em> extinct, and where most people do grow their own food
    and own their own homes instead of living in apartments? Simple arithmetic will
    give you the answer: because there are considerably more people in the United
    States than there were when this was true.\r\n\r\nFor the United States to have
    factories that build tractors and combines, so that agriculture there can be as
    productive as it needs to be to feed everyone, a specialized economy is needed.
    A significant fraction of that economy's productivity is spent on national defense
    - the tyrannies that make this expenditure necessary can be classed as evil villains
    who gratuitously make a bad situation worse.\r\n\r\nJust as the development of
    agriculture did not lead to individuals leading better lives than they did as
    hunter-gatherers, but it made higher population densities possible, industrialization
    has allowed us to support more people - and the alternative to supporting more
    people is tolerating a high rate of infant mortality unless people make changes
    in their reproductive behavior of which we see no sign.\r\n\r\n@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>There
    is a tendency to try to globalise solutions to what are local particularities,
    and a tendency to treat solutions as either/or: you can't feed everyone everywhere
    with locally produced organic produce; ergo, agriculture everywhere should be
    mechanised and rely on chemical fertilizers. I know you can see the fallacy in
    that.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, it would be a fallacy to conclude that <em>all</em> agriculture
    should rely on chemical fertilizers. However, it would not be a fallacy to conclude
    that a large proportion of agriculture everywhere will not be concerned with \"locally
    produced organic produce\" if you can't feed everyone that way.\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    if your goal is to feed everyone, and to keep on feeding everyone even if fossil
    fuel supplies cease to be available, while locally-produced organic food will
    help a few people to survive, they will not lead to the goal being met.\r\n\r\nThus,
    one has to look for something that actually is an answer to the problem.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there is an answer. Fully utilizing available uranium resources, by using breeder
    reactors to turn U-238 into reactor fuel (Pu-239), as well as adding thorium resources
    to our fuel supplies (by breeding Th-232 to U-233, also fissionable) will give
    us plentiful energy supplies with which to continue an intensive industrial civilization
    for hundreds of years.\r\n\r\nElectricity can be used to produce chemical fertilizers
    from other raw materials, or to free up fossil fuels for their production. And
    given hundreds of years of breathing room, we will have time to develop long-term
    large-scale energy sources (space solar power, fusion power)."
  created: '2011-06-08 06:24:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, at least there's a plausible explanation why Americans businesses are
    holding onto all those trillions of dollars...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/economic-news-is-bad-for-obamas-reelection-bid/2011/06/03/AGjZpQIH_story.html"
  created: '2011-06-08 16:33:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Quadibloc, I never said anything about \u2018the machinations of a few evil
    villains\u2019. I said that certain social arrangements and situations are in
    the class interest of the owners of capital. I don't agree that these arrangements
    and situations are ascribable to population size, and the enclosure of the commons
    is a process that began when populations were considerably smaller. The issue
    is not the size of the population but how that population is organised and occupied,
    which is predominantly in the interests of the owners of capital and against the
    interest of the mass of people who own neither capital nor property but have only
    their labour to sell. Obviously, it is also in the interest of the owners of capital
    to purchase that labour at the lowest price they can get. This doesn't seem to
    me controversial: Milton Friedman would tell you the same thing.\r\n\r\nIn 1795,
    John Thelwall was able to recall:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Even in my short remembrance,
    bare-foot ragged children in that part of [Spitalfields, London] were very rare.
    I remember the time when a man who was a tolerable workman had generally, beside
    the apartment in which he carried on his vocation, a small summer house and a
    narrow slip of a garden, at the outskirts of the town, where he spent his Monday,
    either in flying his pidgeons or raising his tulips. But those gardens are now
    fallen into decay. The little summer-house and the Monday's recreation are no
    more; and you will find the poor weavers and their families crowded together in
    vile, filthy and unwholesome chambers, destitute of the most common comforts,
    and even the common necessaries of life.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat was not a situation
    created by population growth, but by the interests of the proto-industrial capitalist
    class that found it commercially advantageous to destroy the piece-work economy,
    concentrate workers in factories, deny them their traditional day of recreation,
    and pay them barely enough to subsist on let alone to own property of their own.
    The system reached a kind of perfection in parts of the USA, for example in the
    coal mines of West Virginia where workers were paid in company scrip rather than
    US dollars, obliged to rent their homes from the company, and to purchase all
    their food and goods in the company store. This isn't the \u2018machinations of
    a few evil villains\u2019: it is the unopposed rational activity of the owners
    of capital in advancing their interests."
  created: '2011-06-09 02:58:19'
date: '2011-05-25 17:41:30'
title: Do the typeface designer need social responsibility?

---
