---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "What are some good type-centric apps to put on an iPad?\r\n\r\nAlso of interest
  would be utilities that let you zoom in to the screen bitmap.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I don't know of any utility that lets you do that on the iPad itself, but
    you can easily make screen snapshots by pushing the home button and standby button
    at the same time. The screen snapshot is stored in the camera roll, which you
    can sync with a folder on your PC (via iTunes), and then open in your favorite
    image program to get a closer look.\r\n\r\nThere are not really a lot of type-centric
    apps (yet), unfortunately. There is a very simple modular font editor (similar
    to FontStruct in concept) called Fontula. There's also a simple font editor called
    iFontMaker. Seems to be best suited to fonts that have a hand-drawn (or -scribbled)
    look. I haven't tried it.\r\n\r\nI think part of the reason there is a dearth
    of type- or font-related apps is that there is no way (yet) to install fonts beyond
    what it comes with. On the other hand, it does support web fonts in the web browser,
    so you can view other fonts on it if they are being served on the web."
  created: '2011-05-28 02:58:10'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '[[http://itunes.apple.com/app/the-font-game-hd/id407072996?mt=8|The Font
    Game HD]]! '
  created: '2011-05-28 03:44:47'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> which you can sync with a folder on your PC (via iTunes)\r\n\r\nAnother
    option is to email the photo to your PC. (Open the photo in your camera roll,
    then press the icon of an arrow coming out of a box.) \r\n\r\nBut syncing is the
    easier method if you've got several photos.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 04:01:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Can't you just view the snapshot/photo on the iPad itself, and zoom in?\r\n\r\n>
    iFontMaker. Seems to be best suited to fonts\r\n> that have a hand-drawn (or -scribbled)
    look.\r\n\r\nThat's the bane of capacitive (versus resistive*) touchscreens. To
    be fair you can buy a special stylus** though - I wonder if that makes iFontMaker's
    results more refined.\r\n\r\n* I wonder about the new infrared stuff coming out
    now.\r\n\r\n** http://www.engadget.com/2010/10/01/ostylus-capacitive-pen-review/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 04:11:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Can't you just view the snapshot/photo on the iPad itself, and zoom in?</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    can, but the zoom level only goes up to about 2x, and the pixels are interpolated,
    so maybe not so good for getting a closer look.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant about iFontMaker
    is that it doesn't have a B\xE9zier pen tool or anything similar. You just trace
    strokes with your finger (or special stylus\u2014I've got one and it is more natural
    for drawing). There is at least one app that has B\xE9zier drawing\u2014miniDraw
    HD\u2014but so far no one has created a font editor for the iPad with such a tool. "
  created: '2011-05-28 05:17:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the pixels are interpolated\r\n\r\nFigures.  :-/\r\nBut there must be some
    \"paint\" app that lets you zoom in, right?\r\n\r\niFontMaker: I do realize it's
    for painting the bodies of letters, as opposed to defining outlines; but at least
    you could do a calligraphic font, if you had enough control. Otherwise it's just
    finger-painting... literally!  :-)\r\n\r\nminiDraw-HD: since it's hard to imagine
    producing a full working font on a portable device anyway (especially one that
    can't actually use the fonts you make...) this might be adequate for fleshing
    out ideas.\r\n\r\nBTW, when you run an iPhone HD app on the iPad, does it display
    at 960x640 with a border, or does it scale up to 1024x768?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 05:44:52'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> when you run an iPhone HD app on the iPad, \r\n> does it display at 960x640
    with a border, or does \r\n> it scale up to 1024x768?\r\n\r\nThere are 3 kinds
    of apps \u20141)  iPhone apps, 2) iPad apps, and 3) Universal apps (designed for
    both iPhones and iPads)\r\n\r\n1) If you run an iPhone app on an iPad, the image
    will not fill the screen and will have a large black border around it. Or you
    can press the 2x button and the image will increase to almost full screen, but
    will still have a border and will be very pixilated.\r\n\r\n2) If you run an iPad
    app, it will fill the screen. \r\n\r\n3) If you run a Universal app on an iPad,
    it will be hi res and fill the screen. I presume that Universal apps require that
    the developer create 2 sets of screens (iPhone and iPad), since the size & proportions
    of the screens aren't the same. In fact I believe Apple describes Universal apps
    as essentially being 2 apps (an iphone app and an iPad app) that are bundled together."
  created: '2011-05-28 06:50:49'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "http://www.suitcasetype.com/app.php\r\n\r\nalso, all back issues of Esquire
    are free right now on the iPad, lots of type to look at."
  created: '2011-05-28 14:23:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And I assume an iPhone app that's HD will almost fill the screen without
    2x.\r\n\r\nBTW, since iOS apps are so resolution-<em>dependent</em> I wonder what
    new future there now is for bitmap fonts!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 14:27:23'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> And I assume an iPhone app that's HD will almost fill the screen without
    2x.\r\n\r\nNo, all iPhone apps, whether HD or not, are displayed small on an iPad
    unless you press the 2x button, in which case they are pixel doubled which make
    them larger but pixilated. Even the HD ones act this way. This may seem illogical,
    but there's a reason.\r\n\r\niPhone HD apps must have 2 sets of bitmapped graphics,
    to accomodate the resolution of both older iPhones and newer iPhones. If you play
    an iPhone app on an iPad, it uses the smaller version of the graphics. \r\n\r\nWhy?
    Because Apple doesn't want developers to think that an HD iPhone app is \"good
    enough\" for iPads too. Apple wants developers to create separate iPad versions,
    so the screen sizes are correct and all the interface elements are properly designed
    and sized for an iPad, rather than just being an iPhone app displayed larger than
    originally intended, which often results in clunky, oversized buttons, etc.\r\n\r\nSo
    Apple makes sure that iPhone apps will play on an iPad, but won't look that great.
    That prods the developers to create real iPad versions."
  created: '2011-05-28 15:13:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the full explanation.\r\nThis is exactly the sort of thing that
    turns me off.\r\n\r\nEspecially considering that huge black border that's there
    anyway I think 960x640 is close enough to 1024x768 that it would be nice to simply
    run iPhone HD apps as-is rather than ignoring the available data and displaying
    a cruddy version.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 15:29:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...all back issues of Esquire are free right now on the iPad, lots of type
    to look at.\r\n\r\nI think Hrant has other preconceived goals with no relation
    to reading, unless there's a book called \"Trashing Apples\";)"
  created: '2011-05-28 19:01:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Apples? More like lemons. :-) But when you're given lemons,\r\nyou make lemonade
    - so I just want to see how to make fonts\r\nas good as they can be on any medium.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-28 19:09:31'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Hrant: I use TinyPixels for rendering/bitmap sketching.'
  created: '2011-05-28 20:24:11'
- author:
    name: BrettR
    picture: 122435
  body: "Well seeing how many of us are avid writers, you might be interested in checking
    out [[http://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/ia-writer/id392502056?mt=8|iA Writer]].\r\nIt
    is a really simple text pad application that is void of all distractions and unnecessary
    options.  I bought it for both my iPad and Macbook, it's quite fantastic.\r\n\r\nAnother
    app that is quite cool (only on iPhone though) is the [[http://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/the-typography-manual/id321091154?mt=8|Typography
    Manual]].  While I realize this is an app geared for people new to typography,
    it still has some interesting information and tools/resources in it.\r\n\r\nI
    wish there was an app that had a massive stockpile of typefaces you could browse
    through and examine closely.  There is one app that does this to some degree,
    but it is poorly made.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-29 08:28:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Apples? More like lemons. :-) \r\n\r\nThis could be fun. I've never heard
    a sane person \"go back\".\r\n\r\n>so I just want to see how to make fonts as
    good as they can be on any medium.\r\n\r\nGreat, if you have any hinting questions,
    feel free to ask.\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-29 08:29:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, thanks.\r\n\r\nIn fact here's one:\r\nRecently we've nicely covered
    how OSX handles hinting. How does iOS differ from OSX in terms of hinting?\r\n\r\nAnd
    another, more academic:\r\nHas anybody made a font that's superhinted for CT?
    I mean controlling the exact (or near-exact) subpixel rendering with deltas?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-29 15:04:19'
- author:
    name: charlesmchen
    picture: 112116
  body: "Funny this should come up, I've been working on a typography app for iOS.
    \ \r\n\r\nThere are already a handful of apps:\r\niFontMaker,\r\nTypefaces,\r\nFont
    Book,\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThere are many features that I'd like to have that are absent
    in all of them.  So, that's my motivation.  But I'd love to hear about what you're
    looking for.  \r\n\r\n> Also of interest would be utilities that let you zoom
    in to the screen bitmap.\r\n\r\nThat can be arranged.  I assume you would be most
    interested in see it rasterized as black on white, with the ability to control
    the point size even increments.\r\n\r\nIf there are other features you're looking
    for, please let me know.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 00:52:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">How does iOS differ from OSX in terms of hinting?\r\n\r\nI've seen no evidence
    of fonts being rendered live <em>and</em> aliased in iOS environs. So no hinting
    is used, though I do not know if the iOS even carries the code to do so. \r\n\r\n>Has
    anybody made a font that's superhinted for CT? \r\n\r\nIf \"superhinted for CT\"
    is a relative term, then the CT collection is such an example, being hinted for
    nothing else. \r\n\r\n>I mean controlling the exact (or near-exact) subpixel rendering
    with deltas?\r\n\r\nYou missed a lot of discussion on <a href=\"http://typophile.com/comment/reply/62675\">this</a>.
    The short answer is that all horizontal scaling in Windows, including glyphs and
    glyph widths, is out of hinting's reach when CT is enabled.\r\n\r\nAnd then I'll
    continue <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/82202\">here</a>, when time permits.
    I'm in \"Edison mode\" until weds :D\r\n\r\n\t"
  created: '2011-05-30 12:31:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But there is some live and subixeled (or at least anti-aliased) text. For
    example the browser on an iOS device. What I am wondering about however (which
    I asked in the \"300dpi\" thread) is: how much of the text in apps is actually
    text-as-image? Because, as I mentioned somewhere, I'm actually smelling a rise
    in the relevance of hand-made (anti-aliased, maybe even subpixel) bitmap fonts...\r\n\r\n>
    the CT collection is such an example\r\n\r\nDo the CT fonts contain delta hints
    to control individual subpixels at specific point sizes? What I'm looking for
    is the subpixel (or at least anti-aliased) equivalent to the old MS Core Fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 14:21:44'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2011-05-30 17:38:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles, great to hear you're working on type stuff for iOS. You seem to
    be talking about a type specimen app? I'm not sure. But anyway you need to decide/state
    what your app will do in general before anybody can suggest features.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    when I say \"zoom\" I don't mean just making text larger - I'm talking about zooming
    in to the <em>rendering</em> of a given font/size on the screen's bitmap. The
    point being to see what's going on, in order to design fine-tuned fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 17:59:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@Mark Simonson\r\n\r\n<em>I think part of the reason there is a dearth of
    type- or font-related apps is that there is no way (yet) to install fonts beyond
    what it comes with</em>\r\n\r\nIn other words, just another way to waste time
    (and money)..."
  created: '2011-05-30 18:32:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have a feeling it has more to do with draconian control of Image.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-30 20:14:06'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "If you count participating on Typophile a waste of time, which is what I'm
    using it for at the moment, I suppose.\r\n\r\nI think sooner or later user-installed
    fonts will be possible. Currently I imagine it has to do with keeping system resources
    to a minimum for maximum performance."
  created: '2011-05-30 20:26:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I'm talking about zooming in to the rendering of a given font/size on the
    screen's bitmap.\r\n\r\nIt's simple enough to grab an iPad screen and bring it
    to your development platform for detailed viewing. There's really no call on the
    iPad for zooming to \"fat bits\" in the old terminology. \r\n\r\n>Currently I
    imagine it has to do with keeping system resources to a minimum for maximum performance.\r\n\r\nTo
    a great extent I think this is as good a guess as any. I think it's also that
    Apple's not interested in the installation and laying about of fonts not required
    for a specific purpose. Fonts can come and go via browser, and by apps, which
    pretty takes care of mobile requirements up to gratuitous fonts.\r\n\r\n>In other
    words, just another way to waste time (and money)...\r\n\r\nlol.101.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 12:06:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">to waste time (and money)\r\n\r\nUnless i misunderstand, thisi is pretty
    funny    ... A SiNgLe daily newspaper at the newsstand, is what? $400"
  created: '2011-05-31 14:00:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> bring it to your development platform\r\n\r\nA tablet computer is supposed
    to be about convenience.\r\nHopefully convenient to think on, not just to buy
    on.\r\nAnd it's not like I'm asking for an app that turns the\r\niPad into a jet
    pack.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 14:25:29'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Apple's has a FAQ (dated April 21, 2011) for their iPad word processor, Pages,
    which discusses which fonts are available for their word processor:\r\n\r\nhttp://support.apple.com/kb/HT4065\r\n\r\nIt
    says:\r\n\r\n+ + + \r\n\r\niPad supports over 40 fonts and font families which
    can be used with iWork for iPad apps. When importing a document that uses a font
    not available on iPad, iWork attempts to replace an unsupported font with one
    that is a close match. If a close match is not found, the Helvetica font will
    be used instead. After the import process, fonts that were replaced are listed
    for review by the user.\r\n\r\nFonts available on the iPad include:\r\n\r\nAmerican
    Typewriter\r\nAppleGothic\r\nArial\r\nBaskerville\r\nBodoni 72\r\nBradley Hand\r\nChalkduster\r\nCochin\r\nCopperplate\r\nCourier\r\nCourier
    New\r\nDidot\r\nFutura\r\nGeeza Pro\r\nGeorgia\r\nGill Sans\r\nHeiti J\r\nHelvetica\r\nHoefler
    Text\r\nMarker Felt\r\nOptima\r\nPalatino\r\nPapyrus\r\nParty LET\r\nSnell Roundhand\r\nThonburi\r\nTimes
    New Roman\r\nTrebuchet MS\r\nVerdana\r\nZapf Dingbats\r\nZapfino\r\n\r\n+ + +\r\n\r\n>
    Currently I imagine it has to do with keeping system \r\n> resources to a minimum
    for maximum performance.\r\n\r\nI suspect you're right. And also the main way
    to load resources onto an iPad is via a sync with iTunes, so you'd need to load
    fonts via iTunes which perhaps would create some technical challenges. But I'm
    sure the ability for load fonts will come in the future."
  created: '2011-05-31 15:02:44'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Apple just announced that they'll be unveiling their next iPad OS \u2014
    iOS 5 \u2014 on Monday June 6. So perhaps we'll see if more font capabilities
    are added. Their press release says:\r\n\r\nCUPERTINO, California\u2014May 31,
    2011\u2014Apple\xAE CEO Steve Jobs and a team of Apple executives will kick off
    the company\u2019s annual Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) with a keynote
    address on Monday, June 6 at 10:00 a.m. At the keynote, Apple will unveil its
    next generation software \u2013 Lion, the eighth major release of Mac OS\xAE X;
    iOS 5, the next version of Apple\u2019s advanced mobile operating system which
    powers the iPad\xAE, iPhone\xAE and iPod touch\xAE; and iCloud\xAE, Apple\u2019s
    upcoming cloud services offering."
  created: '2011-05-31 15:12:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP>it's not like I'm asking for an app that turns the iPad into a jet pack\r\n\r\nIf
    you can wave your jet pack up and down fast enough to create lift, you're all
    set then."
  created: '2011-05-31 18:46:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n<em>Unless i misunderstand, this is pretty funny ... A SiNgLe
    daily newspaper at the newsstand, is what? $400</em>\r\n\r\nWell less than half
    of that, if you subscribe. I might add that a newspaper requires no batteries
    or power adapters, upgrades or wireless connection fees (how much do THEY cost
    a year?), nor is a newspaper  likely to be stolen by a snatch-and-grab thief (a
    growing problems with iGadgets, according to a story in yesterday's real-deal-on-newsprint
    <em>Washington Post</em>)."
  created: '2011-05-31 18:58:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "James, thanks for the details. One big benefit custom\r\nfonts would bring
    is support for non-Latin scripts!  :-/\r\nPersonally I'd like to see Sylfaen in
    the core set.\r\n\r\nAlso (via the ATypI list):\r\nhttp://cre8ive.kr/thesis/index.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-05-31 22:00:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Looks like it supports at least non-Latin scripts. If you go to the Settings
    app > General > Language, you can see a list of language localizations. Doesn't
    look like Armenian is in the list, unfortunately. However, Mobile Safari does
    display it, so some of the included fonts must have the necessary glyph support.\r\n\r\nTry
    this page: <a href=\"http://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u054E\u056B\u0584\u056B\u0583\u0565\u0564\u056B\u0561:\u054E\u056B\u0584\u056B\u0583\u0565\u0564\u056B\u0561\u0576\u0565\u0580\u056B_\u0581\u0561\u0576\u056F\">http://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u054E\u056B\u0584\u056B\u0583\u0565\u0564\u056B\u0561:\u054E\u056B\u0584\u056B\u0583\u0565\u0564\u056B\u0561\u0576\u0565\u0580\u056B_\u0581\u0561\u0576\u056F</a>"
  created: '2011-06-01 00:23:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do know that the iPhone does have Armenian - although I don't know\r\ntoo
    much about it. I'd like to know what font it is, and who made it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 00:32:33'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Well less than half of that, if you subscribe\r\nor five times that to subscribe
    to 8 pubs,\r\n\r\n>I might add that a newspaper requires no batteries or power
    adapters\r\nFollows you nowhere, needs light somehow, no translations, search,
    customization or adapting to fit in your pocket on another device\r\n\r\n>upgrades
    or wireless connection fees (how much do THEY cost a year?), \r\nUpgrades r free,
    Kind o need them connections  anyway,\r\n\r\n>nor is a newspaper likely to be
    stolen by a snatch-and-grab thief (a growing problems with iGadgets\r\n No one
    wanting to steal your recyclables is hardly a great attribute, but hide your iGads
    in a newspaper then.\r\n\r\nAnd then don't forget to take that hidden gadget out
    before collecting up 400 lbs of recyclables and driving ten miles round trip to
    a waste management center monthly...\r\n\r\nIf you have not experienced a paperless
    digital media lifestyle, I think you might be on but one side of the tree of nhaledge."
  created: '2011-06-01 02:31:28'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I might add that a newspaper requires no \r\n> batteries or power adapters...\r\n\r\nCertainly
    there are some advantages to paper newspapers, but it's clear that the the future
    is electronic publications.\r\n\r\nI doubt if many newspapers will still be publishing
    paper editions 10 years from now. Or if they do, it'll probably be reduced-size
    versions that only come out a few times a week, for the benefit of the small percentage
    of their subscribers who in 2021 still want paper versions.\r\n\r\nSame thing
    with magazines and books. Already Amazon reports that it sells more Kindle books
    than printed books. \r\n\r\nI have mixed feelings about this as I love traditional
    books. But I've got to admit that I buy most of my books now on my iPad. It's
    just so darn convenient."
  created: '2011-06-01 04:42:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe veering a bit off-topic, but:\r\nWhat are some good online forums that
    app developers (and not just for iOS) use?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 13:59:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: If you enroll in the iOS Developer Program ($99/year), you have access to
    the official developer forums. Charles might know of and suggest other less official
    forums, if any (if he's still following this discussion).
  created: '2011-06-01 16:26:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "@dberlow\r\n\r\n<em>Kind o need them connections anyway</em>\r\n\r\nIf you
    click the \"Punchcut gig\" at the bottom of the Forums page, you will be informed,
    post haste, that \"Mobile is not a Device, It's a Lifestyle.\" If so, it's a lifestyle
    which some among us--admittedly dinosaurs--choose not to embrace, for a variety
    of reasons. A story in today's <em>Washington Post</em> details the World Health
    Organization's latest opinion of cellphone usage, and it's not pretty, i.e., \"possibly
    carcinogenic.\" The WHO admits that its findings are incomplete, but does not
    back off from the claim of \"possibily.\" Of course, one can easily dismiss the
    possibility, as do deniers of global warning, but at what cost? I, for one, am
    not willing to make the gamble... "
  created: '2011-06-01 16:43:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you enroll in the iOS Developer Program ($99/year),\r\n> you have access
    to the official developer forums.\r\n\r\nKnowing Apple's reputation for strictness,
    I have to ask:\r\nWould I get kicked off for trying to sell iPad-tuned fonts on
    those forums?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 18:30:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Would I get kicked off for trying to sell iPad-tuned fonts on those forums?</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    deprive Apple of their App Store cut? You bet your booties...\r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2011/04/21/apples-cash-pile-now-65-8-billion/"
  created: '2011-06-01 18:42:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But I wouldn't be selling stuff on a device.\r\nI'd be selling stuff to developers
    of apps.\r\nI don't mind giving a cut, but I don't want\r\nto have to develop
    an app just for that!  :-/\r\n\r\nAnd of course I'm interested in finding the
    best\r\nwatering-holes for Android (and other OSes) too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 19:09:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Apple doesn't get a cut if you sell a font license to an app developer. None
    of that goes through the App Store.\r\n\r\nTo answer your question, Hrant, I don't
    know. I would guess if there is a prohibition on selling one's services on the
    forum, it would be in forum terms of participation. You might try asking on http://stackoverflow.com
    . Also would probably be a good place to ask about developer forums."
  created: '2011-06-01 19:19:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks Mark!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-01 19:28:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.fastcodesign.com/1664003/nearly-10-years-in-the-making-a-revolutionary-app-for-digital-font-design\r\nThanks
    to Hussein Alazaat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 14:07:52'
- author:
    name: oprion
    picture: 113612
  body: "@JamesM\r\n\r\n>No, all iPhone apps, whether HD or not, are displayed small
    on an iPad unless you press the 2x button, in which case they are pixel doubled
    which make them larger but pixilated.\r\n\r\nNot if you install RetinaPad extension.\r\nWith
    it, the HD Iphone apps are rendered properly in the 2x mode. They become nearly
    indistinguishable from Ipad versions in terms of quality. And with old sans-HD
    programs, at least you get clear unpixilated type.\r\n\r\nGranted, the nifty program
    requires a jailbroken device."
  created: '2011-06-08 19:41:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: I didn't know that, oprion. Sounds like it might be a handy extension for
    those who have jailbroken iPads.
  created: '2011-06-09 02:13:19'
date: '2011-05-28 02:31:29'
title: iPad apps for the typophile?

---
