---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "I initiate this discussion in an effort develop solutions for what I like to
  call \u201C<strong>Do My Homework Syndrome</strong>.\u201D  \r\n\r\nThe primary
  purpose of this discussion is to help Typophile, as a community, continue to exist
  as a valuable knowledge resource, without doing students the disservice of stunting
  their problem solving skills.\r\n\r\nSimplified for the sake of discussion, the
  situation I have identified as follows: Students ask Typophiles for help with their
  homework, and we end up doing it for them. The harm, as previously mentioned, is
  that we end up stunting the problem solving skills of students, ultimately doing
  them a disservice.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not quite so black and white, but I am confidant
  that we are all aware of the phenomenon. It is futile to point fingers at students,
  Typophiles, or educators in particular as we are all equal participants. Myself
  included. Rather than argue about what is, we should take it upon ourselves to acknowledge
  the reality of the situation, clearly identify the problem and implement practical
  solutions. \r\n\r\nI strongly encourage the participation of students and educators
  in this discussion. I see Typophile as a community committed to contributing. Helping
  you helps our profession, which ultimately helps us all.\r\n\r\nWe all recognize
  the value of the Internet as an information resource. An example I often use is
  doctors using drug databases, instead of memorization, to help them keep track of
  medications, their interactions and their side effects. It is faster, more accurate
  and less prone to human error. The result is an efficient healthcare system, fewer
  tax dollars spent, and human lives saved. We also understand the philosophy behind
  the proverb \u201C<em>Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man
  to fish and you feed him for a lifetime</em>.\u201D I dub this dichotomy \u201C<em>search
  versus solve</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\n<strong>Proposed solutions</strong>\r\n\r\n1. Valid
  student accounts: Have students self identify. This will most certainly have to
  rely on the honour system to a large degree. Real names, proper profile photos and
  links to their respective academic institutions would help.\r\n\r\n2. Teacher directory:
  A way of letting teachers monitor the activity of their students. This could be
  as simple as letting them know Typophile exists and asking them to keep an eye out
  for people having their homework done for them. Perhaps they could register accounts
  marked by their institution which would then give them access to a list of all student
  accounts marked with the same institution.\r\n\r\n3. Professional profiles: Those
  with the greatest experience and value to offer should have full CV\u2019s, history,
  portfolios &c so students and teachers know who the help is coming from.\r\n\r\n4.
  How to ask: Students should be encouraged to explain the problem, what they have
  done and the reasoning behind their design decisions as opposed to simply asking
  \u201CWhat do you think?\u201D In conducting research, I find I have far greater
  success when requesting information if I begin with \u201CI have spent time looking
  here, here and here and have been unable to find what I am looking for. Could you
  please point me in the right direction?\u201D \r\n\r\n5. How to help: A very difficult
  one. Typophiles should help students help themselves, and be mindful when helping
  turns into doing. An example could be suggesting resources to identify typefaces
  before simply doing it for them. The ability to rapidly recall and identify typefaces
  on the fly is a useful skill that can only be developed with practice.\r\n\r\nThese
  last two points involve exploring the ethics of education, which is not my area
  of expertise. I am not an educator, but I do believe a good teacher produces a student
  capable of thinking for themselves and does not need to constantly rely on others
  to get the job done, while simultaneously recognizing the value of collaboration.\r\n\r\nIn
  closing, I believe Typophile has tremendous value to offer and sincerely hope it
  will continue to do so for years to come. This is an important issue that needs
  to be calmly and carefully considered by all so that our community can continue
  to contribute in positive and meaningful ways.\r\n\r\nI look forward to a fruitful
  discussion and thank you for your time."
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/66583"
  created: '2011-05-29 23:20:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Interesting. A year later and situation remains the same. Perhaps we should
    re-evaluate our tactics.
  created: '2011-05-30 00:05:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Professional profiles sounds like a lot of hazzle. A like/dislike widget on
    comments that is reflected in a rating on each profile would give a simpler, more
    accurate indication of quality.
  created: '2011-05-30 01:41:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: What's the problem? If you want to help a student, do, if you don't, don't.
  created: '2011-05-30 05:19:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "The problem is clear: \u201C<em>The harm, as previously mentioned, is that
    we end up stunting the problem solving skills of students, ultimately doing them
    a disservice</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd it is something our community should recognize
    as a whole. Quoting dezcom from another thread:\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>Christopher,
    It seems as though Typophile has become the hot place to go for kids wanting to
    get quick help with their homework. They don't seem to care if it has anything
    to do with typography or not. We are well known suckers</em> :-)\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    would rather Typophile help more than harm our community, and certainly don\u2019t
    want to see Typophile develop a reputation as being a room full of \u201Csuckers.\u201D
    This portion of the discussion should be a non-issue. \r\n\r\nIt is my hope that
    this discussion can <strong>propose solutions</strong> to a situation that we
    are clearly already aware of."
  created: '2011-05-30 14:40:03'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: FWIW I always advise my students not to post anything to Typophile. I tell
    them that given their limited experience they cannot tell whether the person offering
    them advice is an expert or a moron.
  created: '2011-05-31 03:05:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think James makes a good point. :)\r\n\r\nI'd also like to add that if
    a student posts, asking for more than guidance, the correct thing to do is make
    your own choice. Either ignore the thread or help them. Being rude and telling
    them to take a hike is not the answer. I've said it before, and I'll say it again.
    If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all. It is one thing
    to politely offer a little guidance and constructive criticism. But another thing
    entirely to say something that might not be needed to be said. "
  created: '2011-06-02 18:50:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "To me, I first look for due diligence on the part of the student.  Have they
    made a sincere effort to solve their problem on their own?  Saying, \"I looked
    everywhere\" is not a good sign. If I feel the student is really making an effort,
    I might post back some leading questions in a sort of attempt at a socratic dialogue.
    \ I hope that my questions will give them a new way to LOOK at the problem instead
    of just giving them a solution. I respond back again only if the student has put
    forth some thought and made a real attempt.  I am trying to make them \"Design
    an Enquiring System\" for themselves as opposed to handing them a canned answer--teach
    them to fish.\r\n\r\nSometimes they become fisherman--sometime they just keep
    trolling for a free can of Tuna (Sorry Charlie).\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yoda_Soc_Fu_6545.jpg]"
  created: '2011-06-02 20:29:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> given their limited experience they cannot tell whether\r\n> the person
    offering them advice is an expert or a moron.\r\n\r\nSounds like good advice at
    first, but when you think about it,\r\nit doesn't make sense. And nothing is worse
    than listening to\r\nonly one person's advice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-02 21:54:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: After they pass the "Identify the Moron on Typophile Test" I let them do what
    they want.
  created: '2011-06-02 22:32:56'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "I'd like to add to the problem, if I may.\r\n\r\nI'm a student and I've posted
    a thread regarding the critique of my typeface. This typeface, however, has no
    role in my academic life (it's something I've taken on completely outside the
    realm of my classes).\r\n\r\nMy purpose in posting my typeface here is not to
    get easy answers but a: because my professors don't have the time or the knowledge
    of type design to help me; and b: because posting it here allows those that do
    have either the time or the ability (except for the \"morons\", I suppose), to
    offer advice in areas I wouldn't otherwise think to look. \r\n\r\nWhile I could
    go and contact professionals outside of the typophile community, I certainly wouldn't
    want to bother anyone with my requests. Typophile allows for those people to respond
    (if they care to), at their own time and without any badgering from me.\r\n\r\nThere
    is also only so much I can figure out on my own without either trying to reinvent
    the wheel or completely overlooking a major problem.\r\n\r\nHow would these kinds
    of situations be handled?"
  created: '2011-06-02 22:48:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Identify the Moron\r\n\r\nOnly glyphs are so black & white.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-02 23:21:28'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: "I haven't posted here in a while, so I'm not really sure I qualify as a contributing
    member of this community, but as a student I feel the need to offer my opinion.\r\n\r\nI
    joined Typophile in January 2008, when I was a sophomore in college with a minor
    interest in type and design. I was at a point in my college career where I didn't
    have any clear career aspirations; I had started college wanting to be a journalist,
    but I had quit the school newspaper after one semester and decided that it wasn't
    for me. I figured that I would get through college majoring in something I enjoy
    (English and political science) and that something would be waiting for me when
    I got out. The only thing I knew was that I really enjoyed the act of creation
    involved in newspaper layout, and I had started reading type blogs in 2007.\r\n\r\nNow
    I'm a third-quarter design student at the Creative Circus, well on my way toward
    entering the industry as a kick-ass designer with killer type skills. And I have
    Typophile to thank for that. I have learned so much about type from these forums
    over the past three years that even in design school I'm known as a type guru.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the way I learned so much was not by asking questions and having them answered,
    but by listening to the conversations between the experts who inhabit these forums.
    And when I did have a question, it would be answered.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, there's
    really no way that we can \"do students' homework\" for them. If they're using
    this forum as a primary source for research, then it will show through in their
    presentation. I agree with William that it should be up to the individual members
    \u2014\_if you want to help students, then help them; if you don't, then don't.\r\n\r\nBecause
    what this forum ultimately provides, more than anything else, is a community.
    The really amazing thing about this forum is that it is inhabited by everyone
    from overexuberant students like myself all the way up to type demigods like Erik
    Spiekermann. And to impose some sort of rules to curb \"do my homework\" syndrome
    would be to necessarily exclude students from this community. While I imagine
    that some of this forum's veterans like to regard themselves as the \"true typophiles\"
    and would like to preserve the purity of the community, we have to remember that
    part of Typophile's purpose is to spread knowledge and enthusiasm about type,
    and \"otherizing\" people who genuinely want to be a part of this community runs
    counter to that purpose."
  created: '2011-06-03 01:28:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eric, well put.\r\n\r\nChristopher, everybody who wants to learn* will do
    so. Anybody who wants others\r\nto do their work will end up paying for that eventually.
    We cannot administer\r\npsychotherapy. We can, and should give advice, technical
    or otherwise. Can all\r\nof it be good, even from somebody like Spiekermann? Absolutely
    not - that would\r\nbe inhuman. Which is what things become when you vie for too
    much control.\r\n\r\n* Including people who are in a position to teach - the best
    teacher\r\nis an eternal student. In fact there's no magic threshold that entitles\r\none
    group of people to teach and the rest to learn.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-03 01:45:01'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "While I agree that a teacher must continue to learn, this statement of yours:\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    fact there's no magic threshold that entitles\r\none group of people to teach
    and the rest to learn.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs an illusion."
  created: '2011-06-03 02:20:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'JamesT: It sounds to me like you have something valid to ask. I''d post the
    typeface in the critique section and see what happens. '
  created: '2011-06-03 21:35:36'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "Miss Tiffany,\r\n\r\nI did and got a lot of help. This forum has been extremely
    enlightening for me (due to my present lack of \"off-line\" resources).\r\n\r\nI
    think James is right regarding the illusion. While one is never truly done learning,
    there is a point, when one knows enough about a subject, that they can then educate
    others."
  created: '2011-06-03 21:45:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That doesn't make sense, because:\r\n- I teach stuff (well, I've been told
    I do).\r\nAND\r\n- I learn stuff from even the most novice participant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-03 22:23:50'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: 'The two aren''t mutually exclusive (at least in my experience). '
  created: '2011-06-03 22:45:25'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>That doesn't make sense...</cite>\r\n\r\nTo you.\r\n\r\nAnd there you
    have it!"
  created: '2011-06-04 01:52:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Some wisdom on teaching and learning from [[http://jps.org/product.php?id=444|an
    ancient source:]] \"Choose for yourself a mentor, acquire for yourself a friend,
    and be judging every person in a favorable light.\"\r\n\r\nThis says both that
    who you choose as a mentor matters, and that there is a difference between a \"rav,\"
    a master or mentor, and a pupil, even though the teacher is also supposed to learn
    from his or her pupils. "
  created: '2011-06-04 02:09:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is a difference between everything.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 02:12:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "The teacher/student definition is a simple circular debate. We are all learning
    and we all have the ability to educate others.\r\n\r\nFor this thread, I operationalize
    the term \u201Cstudent\u201D as someone taking a course and being given assignments
    which are graded. In most instances they are paying for this.\r\n\r\nI operationalize
    \u201Cteacher\u201D as someone who organizes the course, gives assignments and
    evaluates the work. In most instances they are being paid for their services."
  created: '2011-06-04 17:34:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry, but those definitions are moot in the context of Typophile.\r\nThis
    is especially true of your \"teacher\"; do you think non-\"teacher\"s\r\ncannot
    help people be parasitic?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 18:00:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I\u2019m not quite sure I understand, perhaps I miscommunicated. If people
    having a conversation are using the same words, but to each they have different
    meanings, there will a breakdown in the communication process. Basic semiotics.\r\n\r\nIn
    the scientific writing, one of the most important things the authour does when
    writing is to \u201Coperationalize their definitions\u201D so the reader knows
    what the authour means. It is not an attempt by authour to dictate the meaning
    of a word for all contexts, but simply saying \u201Cfor this paper, when I use
    the term X, I mean this\u201D in order to ensure accurate communication.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I do not understand how they can be moot when there have been thousands of posts
    where people self identify exactly as previously described. There are design students
    and teachers on this site.\r\n\r\nCan you clarify your statement \u201C\u2026<em>do
    you think non-\"teacher\"s\r\ncannot help people be parasitic?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    am hoping to have a conversation rather than a debate over semantics."
  created: '2011-06-04 18:31:32'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "Christopher,\r\n\r\nI think we all know what you mean when you write about
    \"teachers\" and \"students\" and the role of the typophile community in either
    aiding or hindering one's problem solving abilities.\r\n\r\nIn the end, I think
    it's up to the individual to choose whether or not the want to help a student.
    If the student's question is legitimate, I don't see the problem. \r\n\r\nThe
    role of typophile, I think, should not be to solve everyone's typographic problems
    (otherwise, over time, everything would become too homogenized due to the influence
    of a few people), but to help people understand discrepancies in their own designs
    and to provide direction and education. "
  created: '2011-06-04 18:47:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If people having a conversation are using the same words, but to each they\r\n>
    have different meanings, there will a breakdown in the communication process.\r\n\r\nIf
    I didn't agree with that I wouldn't have complained about your definition(s).\r\n\r\n>
    There are design students and teachers on this site.\r\n\r\nAnd most of those
    \"teachers\" don't fit your definition, but they might (and do) help students
    \"[stunt] their problem solving skills\" anyway. But FWIW like I said I personally
    don't mind, because I love separating the wheat from the chaff.\r\n\r\nYour definition
    of \"teacher\" (and to a lesser extend \"student\") will impede any potential
    resolution that you seek, here on Typophile.\r\n\r\nYou guys want to talk about
    \"illusion\"? Here's the biggest one: Control.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 19:02:28'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Ah, control!\r\n\r\nYes you are right, control.\r\n\r\nI've seen the damage
    done by no control, so yes, control, just a little bit.\r\n\r\nNot an illusion.
    Clearly you have very little experience teaching."
  created: '2011-06-06 02:51:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yet again: it depends on the definition of \"teacher\"!  :-)\r\nIn the context
    of this thread and Christoper's quest,\r\nthe conventional definition sucks lead.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 17:59:39'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "When I composed this thread, I refrained from including the following phrase
    because I did not want to begin it with a negative tone:\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>I sincerely
    hope this thread does not spiral downward into in-infighting and name-calling
    as this would be unproductive, reflect poorly on our community and set a bad example
    for younger typographers</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nDisappointing."
  created: '2011-06-06 18:38:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the other hand name-calling (which I have not done here) is not the\r\nreason
    this can't work (especially for somebody like me with titanium skin).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 20:57:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps all that Christopher is doing by posting his operational definitions
    of teacher and student is trying to limit the scope of the discussion to just
    that narrower view for the sake of simplicity.  It seems he is just clarifying
    that the problem he sees and wants to address in this thread is with \"students\"
    [as he has defined them] seeking help with formal school assignments as opposed
    to general information seeking on the web. It seems he is trying to place a boundary
    on what would be considered proper \"help\" by us here on Typophile, without \"aiding
    and abetting\" a perhaps lazy student who wants an easy way out of doing his own
    work. I don't know if I understand him correctly or not.\r\n\r\nIf that is correct,
    there is still not a way to absolve either student or teacher from their real
    responsibilities in the formal education arena.  There will always be both lazy
    teachers and students to be found.  I doubt if we here can find an easy way to
    separate the wheat from the chaff. As others here have said. The poster and responder
    in every case ultimately will get whatever value he gets from the discussion.
    \ The \"Good\" student will benefit much more than the lazy one but we have no
    real assurance that what we have said will be what he is searching for.  I prefer
    that we make no attempt to systematically evaluate or censor a request as a group
    and just let individuals post whatever they deem appropriate.  It may be Russian
    Roulette but at least not harmful or a means of censorship."
  created: '2011-06-06 21:26:03'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@jmontalbano - Hrant is right. There is no magic threshold beyond which the
    transfer of knowledge becomes strictly one-way.\r\n\r\n@dezcom - I certainly think
    you grokked Mr. Dean's meaning and intention."
  created: '2011-06-16 20:29:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Something I find telling is to check out the Track on someone\u2019s profile
    to see what the bulk of their posts are. It\u2019s not too hard to find a pattern."
  created: '2011-07-26 19:54:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Wow. What started off as \u201CDo My Homework Syndrome\u201D has actually
    devolved into \u201CDevelop My Coursework Syndrome.\u201D \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/91256\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the cure is for Typophiles to simply assign themselves homework?"
  created: '2012-03-30 17:20:48'
- author:
    name: emspace
    picture: 118892
  body: "Christopher : Since it's the 2nd time tonight that I run into a comment of
    yours that bashes my thread (i.e. on Twitter and your previous comment on this
    thread), I will give you some context on my situation.\r\n\r\nI teach classes
    every week night and freelance in the daytime. Out of my 5 classes, 4 of them
    are different. I give an introductory graphic design class, an InDesign and page
    layout class (x2), a pre-press class and the last type conception class of the
    program. \r\n\r\nIn my type class last week, when I announced to my students the
    next project that we are about to do and which is already planned in the curriculum.
    They then let me know that they already did a similar project last semester, which
    was not supposed to happen. I don't think giving the same exercise twice would
    benefit their portfolio or their education so I whip up a new project last minute.
    I feel the need for a second opinion because I don't really have time to let it
    simmer as much as I would like to before giving them the actual deal so I turn
    to Typophile to explain my project and get some global opinions in case someone
    would spot a blatant mistake in my assignment that I didn't think of or would
    think of a better way to do things. \r\n\r\nI don't expect anyone to do my coursework
    for me and I would gladly share the results of the project I've given my students
    in the Typographic Education section which I think could benefit other teachers
    out there. Even if it's not perfect, they could still benefit from my mistakes.\r\n\r\nI
    think the way you've implied in the other thread that my students would come on
    the Typophile forum to get their homework done and now and on Twitter that I posted
    on the forum to get my coursework done by others is way disrespectful and completely
    undeserved. I realize that you don't speak for the whole but I find this kind
    of attitude very disappointing coming from a regular member of Typophile and I
    will definitely think twice before posting on Typophile again if it is to be treated
    in this manner."
  created: '2012-03-31 07:31:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\xC9milie, you're right. But don't pout. Since you're clearly\r\nwilling
    and able to defend yourself in public there's no\r\ngood reason to avoid trying
    to get help in public.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-03-31 14:07:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Awesome. Two people asking for help on the same homework assignment at the
    same time.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/95306\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/95275"
  created: '2012-08-05 23:35:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For now, I\u2019ve simply resigned myself to the fact that educators don\u2019t
    care, students are lazy, and instead of thinking for themselves, they ask the
    internet. And us. They do it to the detriment of developing their own problem
    solving skills, and we do it to the detriment of our profession. If you\u2019re
    going to ask someone to do your homework for you here, the least you can do is
    cite it properly to avoid being accused for plagiarism. APA 6.0 states:\r\n\r\nDean,
    C. (2012, October 25). Re: Thread title (Online forum comment). Retrieved from
    http://url of the thread\r\n\r\nIn this case, replace my name and date with the
    time and person who answered your question."
  created: '2012-10-26 00:08:00'
date: '2011-05-29 21:43:18'
node_type: forum
title: Help cure "Do My Homework Syndrome"

---
