---
author:
  name: ferfolio
  picture: 128984
body: "Hi fellow typophiles!\r\n\r\nIm doing a new font that has small caps inside
  the regular version. I've also programmed the file with the \"smcp\" property and
  works just fine in OpenType.\r\n\r\nMy problem is that I want to edit the spacing
  between the small caps letters in the metrics window, but i dont want to put \"/H.SMCP
  /E.SMCP /L.SMCP /L.SMCP /O.SMCP\", I just want to put \"HELLO\" and edit the spaces
  between the letters.\r\n\r\n<strong>Is there an easy way to space the small caps
  in the metrics window?</strong>"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Easy? I can't think of one. Less cumbersome? Yes, but the process involves
    a few extra steps outside of FL...
  created: '2011-06-02 16:17:05'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Being lazy, what I would do is select all the small caps in the font window,
    open the metrics window, and use copy and paste to move them around. Not great,
    I know...
  created: '2011-06-02 18:22:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Another option:\r\n<ol><li>Make a COPY of your original file.</li>\r\n<li>EITHER
    copy and paste your SMCP letters into their corresponding normal cap positions;
    OR scale the normal caps to the same size as SMCPs and adjust metrics accordingly.</li>\r\n<li>KERN
    as usual, then EXPORT METRICS.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\nThen, open the .afm file in a
    simple Text Editor, and...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smcp_4703.png]\r\n\r\nFinally,
    OPEN your ORIGINAL file and IMPORT METRICS. choosing \"Add imported kerning data
    to the current font\" and SAVE.\r\n\r\nYeah, a lot of steps, but should take less
    than fifteen minutes from start to finish."
  created: '2011-06-03 18:16:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Assuming you've set up smallcaps as an OpenType feature, you could use the
    OpenType tab of the Preview panel to generate the "slash string" that you could
    copy and paste to the Metrics window.
  created: '2011-06-03 18:45:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Yes, the last method is currently the only workable: \r\n\r\n1. Compile the
    features in the OpenType panel. \r\n2. Open the Preview panel. \r\n3. Switch to
    the OpenType Features tab of the panel. \r\n4. Type in any string you want in
    the top text box. \r\n5. Apply the features you want (e.g. \"smcp\"). \r\n6. From
    the bottom read-only text box, copy the output string. \r\n7. Paste the string
    into the Metrics Window text box. \r\n\r\nWe intend to improve that particular
    aspect in the upcoming release of FontLab Studio. "
  created: '2011-06-06 11:57:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, that's the method I use.\r\nThe OpenType Preview panel and the Metrics
    window work well together.\r\nI like the way that one can change the type size
    in the OpenType Preview panel by changing the window size."
  created: '2011-06-06 19:54:37'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "1.\r\n\r\nTo remap kerning from caps to small caps, you can also use a terminal
    command. First, export the afm file with your kerning. Open the terminal window
    and do this:\r\n\r\n<code>cat file.afm | grep KPX | grep ' [A-Z] ' | perl -pe
    's/KPX //' | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])&nbsp;/$1\\.smcp /g'</code>\r\n\r\nNow you can
    copy the new kern pairs out of the terminal window and into the \"Add Kerning
    Pairs\" box in Fontlab.\r\n\r\nHere's how this works:\r\n\r\n<code>cat file.afm</code>\r\n\r\nThis
    prints your whole file to the terminal window. (On the Mac, you can drag the file
    from the Finder to the terminal window and it will fill in the whole path & file
    name for you.)\r\n\r\n<code>cat file.afm | grep KPX</code>\r\n\r\nThis filters
    the afm for the kern pairs. \r\n\r\n<code>cat file.afm | grep KPX | grep ' [A-Z]
    ' </code>\r\n\r\nThis filters the afm for kern pairs that involve the letters
    A-Z.\r\n\r\n<code>cat file.afm | grep KPX |  grep ' [A-Z] ' | perl -pe 's/KPX
    //' </code>\r\n\r\nThis deletes the KPX at the beginning of each line.\r\n\r\n<code>cat
    file.afm | grep KPX | grep ' [A-Z] ' | perl -pe 's/KPX //' | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])&nbsp;/$1\\.smcp
    /g'</code>\r\n\r\nThis changes the single letters A-Z to A.smcp-Z.smcp. (You can
    change the 'smcp' to whatever your suffix is.)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n2. \r\n\r\nTo generate
    test strings, you can use a similar approach. Make a text file with the test strings
    IN ALL CAPS.\r\n\r\n<code>cat strings.txt  | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])/\\/$1\\.smcp
    /g'</code>\r\n\r\nCopy the result into the Fontlab metrics window. (Again, you
    can change 'smcp' to whatever your suffix is.)\r\n\r\nYou can also do this without
    a separate file:\r\n\r\n<code>echo \"MY TEXT\"  | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])/\\/$1\\.smcp
    /g'</code>\r\n\r\nThis produces:\r\n\r\n<code>/M.smcp /Y.smcp&nbsp;&nbsp;/T.smcp
    /E.smcp /X.smcp /T.smcp </code>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n3.\r\n\r\nOn the Mac, you can append
    <code>| pbcopy</code> to move the result to the clipboard automatically, which
    saves some mousing around the terminal window, e.g.:\r\n\r\n<code>cat strings.txt
    \ | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])/\\/$1\\.smcp /g' | pbcopy</code>\r\n\r\n<code>echo \"MY
    TEXT\"  | perl -pe 's/([A-Z])/\\/$1\\.smcp /g' | pbcopy</code>\r\n\r\n4. \r\n\r\nBe
    warned that you can only paste a limited amount of text into the Fontlab metrics
    window. So if not all your sample strings are showing up after you paste, break
    them into smaller pieces.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-16 18:52:07'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "One more stupid terminal trick: if you also want to make a mathematical adjustment
    to the small-cap kern values before you import, add the following:\r\n\r\n<code>|
    perl -pe 's/^(.*?)([-\\d]+)(.*)$//;$val=$2;$val=$val*0.6;print $1.$val.$3'</code>\r\n\r\nThe
    part that says <code>$val=$val*0.6</code> is what converts the kern value. You
    can change this to whatever transformation you like \u2014 add 100 would be <code>$val=$val+100</code>,
    50% would be <code>$val=$val*0.5</code>, etc.\r\n\r\nThe code above will adjust
    the kern values by 60%. As above, you can append <code>| pbcopy</code> to the
    command to put it on the clipboard automatically. So putting it all together:\r\n\r\n<code>cat
    file.afm | grep KPX | grep ' [A-Z] ' | perl -pe 's/KPX //' \r\n| perl -pe 's/([A-Z])
    /$1\\.smcp /g' \r\n| perl -pe 's/^(.*?)([-\\d]+)(.*)$//;$val=$2;$val=$val*0.6;print
    $1.$val.$3' | pbcopy</code>\r\n\r\nUsing this command, you can remap all your
    cap kerning to small caps, and rescale the values, in one step."
  created: '2011-06-16 21:34:33'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "Whoops, one small fix \u2014 forgot to convert the new kern value to an integer.\r\n\r\nSo
    instead of this:\r\n\r\n<code>print $1.$val.$3'</code>\r\n\r\nUse this: \r\n\r\n<code>print
    $1.int($val).$3'</code>\r\n\r\nAnd the revised code is this:\r\n\r\n<code>cat
    file.afm | grep KPX | grep ' [A-Z] ' | perl -pe 's/KPX //'\r\n| perl -pe 's/([A-Z])
    /$1\\.smcp /g'\r\n| perl -pe 's/^(.*?)([-\\d]+)(.*)$//;$val=$2;$val=$val*0.6;print
    $1.int($val).$3' | pbcopy</code>"
  created: '2011-06-17 01:27:32'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Time for some heresy. \r\n\r\nPut the small caps in the lc positions of a
    seperate font.\r\n\r\n\u2013 far easier treatment when kerning.\r\n\u2013 for
    the user its just the same amount of trouble to pick small caps from the OT or
    the type menu.\r\n\u2013 saves you a lot of labour.\r\n\r\nI admire Buttericks
    approach but I feel it\u2019ll never become my way of doing this \u2026\r\nOne
    single char. messed in the code \u2013 and you\u2019re going to sink.\r\n\r\ngood
    luck!"
  created: '2011-06-17 20:32:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas: <em>Put the small caps in the lc positions of a seperate font.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    if the text that the user needs to represent in smallcaps is uppercase characters?"
  created: '2011-06-18 01:38:00'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>What if the text that the user needs to represent in smallcaps is uppercase
    characters?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, then you\u2019ll have to re-type it. This is a
    disadvantage, alright.\r\n\r\nBut I assume this is a rather seldom case to happen.
    The question is, is it worth the trouble, after all."
  created: '2011-06-18 08:24:12'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<Cite>Put the small caps in the lc positions of a seperate font.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not heretical. I just don't think it pays off in efficiency. Yes, it's easier
    to space and kern the small caps when they're in the LC positions. But then you
    have a second font with a lot of duplicate characters in it. For instance, if
    you change the shapes or spacing of the caps in the original font, you have to
    migrate those changes to the small cap font. But you can't copy the kerning from
    the original font directly, because the UC->LC kerning means something different
    in the SC font \u2026 the complications escalate from there.\r\n\r\nAs for the
    risks & rewards of using terminal commands, I imagine most type designers could
    learn the basics of grep filtering and perl substitutions in a few hours. Since
    it will save weeks of your time in the long run, why wouldn't you?"
  created: '2011-06-18 16:52:12'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>We intend to improve that particular aspect in the upcoming release
    of FontLab Studio</cite>\r\n\r\nThe ideal solution would be to add the Opentype
    layout toggles to the Metrics window itself, thus merging the Preview and Metrics
    functions. Then you could check off your 'smcp' box and type away using small
    caps."
  created: '2011-06-18 17:37:17'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '"Bash? Isn''t that the polite form of addressing on typophile?"'
  created: '2011-06-18 21:57:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Andreas: <em>Well, then you\u2019ll have to re-type it.</em>\r\n\r\nIt isn't
    simply that you have to retype the text: you have to <em>change</em> the text.\r\n\r\nThe
    most common use of smallcaps in the texts I work with is for organisational and
    other abbreviations. If the text has UN and USA, I really don't want to be changing
    it to un and usa just to access smallcaps. Remember, digital text gets repurposed
    for lots of different media, and changing text to affect display is a really bad
    idea."
  created: '2011-06-19 10:36:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\n1. Put small cap glyphs into lowercase positions of a separate
    font. \r\n2. Add a \"c2sc\" OpenType Layout feature that replaces uppercase glyphs
    with the lowercase glyphs. \r\n\r\nLook at Adobe's Trajan Pro or Sava Pro. That's
    exactly how it is done there :) \r\n\r\nMore on small caps in a separate font
    at http://typophile.com/node/32455 :)\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 13:49:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: But Trajan Pro and Sava Pro have no regular lowercase. I don't see any benefit
    to avoiding having to implement 'smcp' in one font only to still have to implement
    'c2sc' in another font.
  created: '2011-06-21 21:34:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nif you put the small caps in a separate font, there would be
    no regular lowercase in that font either. \r\n\r\nIf you put small caps into a
    separate font that only implements \"c2sc\", I see the benefits as follows: \r\n1.
    The small caps will be accessible in all applications, no matter whether they
    implement OpenType Layout or not, and whether or not they have a UI for enabling
    OpenType Layout features. They will even work in Microsoft Office 2010 which does
    implement OpenType Layout and has UI for enabling OpenType Layout features but
    that UI excludes OpenType small caps (i.e. small caps in Word 2010 are still made
    by reducing uppercase letters).\r\n2. The small caps will be visible to users
    when they are doing normal font selection from the font menu, so they'll be able
    to see what they'll get before they pick the font. \r\n3. The users will actually
    be able to see at all that the font family has small caps. If you put small caps
    into the same font as lowercase, there is no way to see which font on a user's
    system actually has them, because no single UI exists to my knowledge for selecting
    a font that has certain layout features. \r\n4. When used as a webfont, a font
    with small caps in a separate font will be much smaller than a combined font,
    and the small caps will be more accessible: every browser allows font selection,
    but very few support applying user-controlled OpenType Layout features. \r\n5.
    In all existing font development tools, including refurbished classics such as
    Fontographer, it's much easier to space and kern small caps if they're encoded
    as lowercase. \r\n6. Every automatic hinting process will perform better if the
    small caps are in a separate font, because there are fewer stem thicknesses and
    less chances to mix up alignment zones when small caps and actual lowercase are
    in separate fonts. \r\n7. Font vendors can sell the small cap font separately,
    and the users can buy it separately. Instead of having one cheaper font without
    small caps and one more expensive with them, there are just two fonts. So a user
    who bought the font with lowercase and later gets the small caps font does not
    have to change existing documents (switch from \"Std\" to \"Pro\" everywhere).
    \r\n\r\nEven if 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 were not true (i.e. better UIs existed etc.),
    there would still be no clear disadvantage of having small caps in a separate
    font over integrating them. Or can you think of a serious benefit for having integrated
    small caps vs. separating them? \r\n\r\nI obviously see the benefit of using OpenType
    Layout features in general, especially if one feature affects a reasonably small
    number of glyphs which heavily interact with the rest of the glyphs in the font
    (through kerning, mark positioning, ligaturing etc.). So most kinds of OpenType
    Layout features do make sense. \r\n\r\nBut small caps in OpenType Layout don't
    make sense: \r\n\r\n1. When \"smcp\" is activated, small caps usually replace
    a huge number of encoded glyphs (letters, often also punctuation, marks etc.)
    -- so the font vendor ends up nearly doubling the size of the font even for the
    users who won't use the small caps ever. Which is especially important with webfonts.
    \r\n2. Of course it does make sense to include uppercase glyphs in the small caps
    font, so yes, there will be some doubling in size either way. But while uppercase
    is often kerned with lowercase, and uppercase is often kerned with small caps,
    there are hardly any cases where lowercase would be kerned with small caps (and
    I don't just mean kerning, also other kinds of glyph interaction) -- which is
    an evidence that lowercase and small caps do not necessarily belong into one and
    the same font. \r\n3. Small caps often end up being in a separate glyph run from
    lowercase or other characters anyway, because often users apply different formatting
    to them within the same line (e.g. different tracking, or slightly different size).
    \r\n\r\nSo, what do you think?\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2011-06-23 01:15:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam, good arguments, but...\r\n\r\n<em>2. Of course it does make sense to
    include uppercase glyphs in the small caps font, so yes, there will be some doubling
    in size either way.</em>\r\n\r\nIncorporating smallcaps into the same font = approx
    1.5 times the number of glyphs (if using subroutines, this is true even if following
    Adobe's approach of duplicating smallcaps). Placing the smallcaps into a separate
    font = 2 times the number of everything, not just glyphs but also all the other
    font tables.\r\n\r\nI think the issue then becomes where you want your efficiencies
    and where you want to take your hits. As you say, for webfonts there may often
    be efficiencies in not including smallcaps in a font, but this is in general the
    argument for subsetting and is not smallcap specific. A lot of my clients are
    concerned with different kinds of delivery footprint and, believe it or not, hard
    drive footprint. [Did I tell you that significant parts of VOLT had to be rewritten
    to get the Gabriola font down to a size that would be accepted for Win7?]\r\n\r\nAs
    you know, I'm also opposed in principle to font makers doing things that let software
    developers off the hook for supporting layout features."
  created: '2011-06-23 02:48:50'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nI think the entire notion of font format development is quite
    interesting because it keeps following a sinusoid where things are being disassembled,
    then assembled, then disassembled, then assembled etc. \r\n\r\nWe started off
    with Type 1, where one font existed in several files (.pfb, .afm, .inf, .pfm --
    and analogical on Mac), then we moved to TrueType where everything was in one
    file. But because of the codepages, things had to be split into several fonts,
    and then OpenType united them into one file. But now with webfonts, we're splitting
    them (not only because of webfonts -- also because of mixing various writing systems),
    but at the same time, we're working on \"virtual unification\" through composite
    fonts and the CSS font stack. \r\n\r\nIMO, according to Occam's razor, the \"BASE\"
    table and the \"smcp\" feature are \"worse\" solutions. I tend to think that these
    days, splitting font files physically at the boundary of what would become glyph
    runs when typesetting would make sense most. But for that, we do need a composite
    font mechanism. Actually, to a large extent, I feel that we already have one such
    mechanism: CSS. A CSS file can register a font family in the browser that points
    to various font resources for various styles and character ranges. \r\n\r\nI believe
    more and more, and at some point, when we'll be talking about installing fonts
    in applications, a CSS file will be what we'll be \"installing\". It should replace
    Composite Font Representation, SING and all the other stuff. Perhaps CSS should
    be extended to incorporate some aspects of what is in CFS -- but don't you think
    that CSS is possibly a better solution than CFS, SING etc.?\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 22:58:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>I tend to think that these days, splitting font files physically
    at the boundary of what would become glyph runs when typesetting would make sense
    most.</em>\r\n\r\nIn my experience, most presumptions about what will constitutes
    glyph runs run into real world problems, of greater or lesser severity. Microsoft
    presumed that a change in text direction would break a glyph run, and as a result
    we can't apply necessary contextual substitutions relative to Arabic date signs
    across intervening numerals. Failure to roll common European punctuation characters
    into glyph runs with non-Latin scripts that now use these characters means that
    we can't kern to them. And so on. So I'm wary about dividing fonts along glyph
    boundary lines, because those lines are not well defined.\r\n\r\n<em>...don't
    you think that CSS is possibly a better solution than CFS, SING etc.?</em>\r\n\r\nPossibly,
    yes. More generally, and a subject for another discussion, I think there are good
    arguments to be made for pursuing font technology developments under W3C."
  created: '2011-06-24 02:00:55'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "butterick: <em>The ideal solution would be to add the Opentype layout toggles
    to the Metrics window itself, thus merging the Preview and Metrics functions.
    Then you could check off your 'smcp' box and type away using small caps.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    dream about things like this..."
  created: '2011-06-24 19:36:17'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>But small caps in OpenType Layout don't make sense</cite>\r\n\r\nOn
    reflection, I am persuaded by Adam's argument. \r\n"
  created: '2011-07-13 01:20:51'
- author:
    name: Stickley
    picture: 117189
  body: "I do very little typing to kern my small caps (or any set of glyphs) by just
    using find/replace. <em> (I use BBEdit 'cuz it's fast and easy to use for just
    this sort of thing.)</em>\r\n\r\nFor instance, I take the whole of the small caps
    text from the kerning window: \r\n\r\n/a.smcp/b.smcp/c.smcp/d.smcp/e.smcp/ ...and
    so forth\r\n\r\nand do a find a replace of the / with, for instance, /Y/ so I
    get:\r\n\r\n/Y/a.smcp/Y/b.smcp/Y/c.smcp/Y/d.smcp/Y/e.smcp/Y/\r\n\r\nAnd just copy/paste
    that new line of text back in. I have all 26 small cap glyphs ready to be kerned
    with Y.  It works perfectly for any instance\u2014punctuation, anything against
    anything. With kerning classes everything just falls into place right away; and
    because it pairs one with whatever set you like, you can kern both sides, one
    right after the other:\r\n\r\n/f/a/f/b/f/c/f/d/f/e\r\n\r\nf with the whole lowercase.
    Or period with all lower:\r\n\r\n/period/a/period/b/period/c/period/d/period/e/period/\r\n\r\n...and
    then all upper, then all small caps. Works great for parenthesis and other random
    parts that need to be next to one side or both of any set of glyphs, with very
    little typing so the focus is on the kerning, not the typing of the pairs to be
    kerned. I can kern large sets quickly because of how fast the permutations can
    be built. Bonus: because it is a long line of glyphs I get a better sense of the
    color of the overall text as I go so parts that are wrong stick out, and parts
    that are fixed fade back.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-13 06:06:21'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "eolson: I dream about things like this...\r\nLike this?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KerningMetrics_5688.png]\r\nSorry
    Fernando, it is not FontLab\r\nHint: FontForge doesn't allow to choose an OT feature
    to the selected letters, like this: Q U.sc O.sc V A.sc D.sc I.sc S.sc. Would be
    great..."
  created: '2011-07-13 09:57:23'
date: '2011-06-02 13:21:59'
title: Help with SMALL CAPS!

---
