---
author:
  name: apankrat
body: "I am trying to get down to the reason for a discrepancy between what I am seeing
  on Typekit's \"Browser Sample\" page and what I am seeing in the real life. \r\n\r\nHere
  is what they promise for Firefox 3.6 on XP:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typekit-adelle-sample_4857.png]\r\n<code></code>\r\n\r\nAnd
  here is what I am seeing in Firefox 3.6 on XP, ClearType is on, Firefox is at its
  defaults:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typekit-adelle-real_5748.png]\r\n<code></code>\r\n\r\nTo
  put it mildly - these do not look the same.\r\n\r\nTried talking to their support,
  but so far it yielded some quasi-marketing gibberish about them \"working closely
  with type designers to improve screen rendering\" and some such, basically ignoring
  my question and answering something that I did not ask.\r\n\r\nAnyone here from
  Typekit who can shed the light on this? Are these not actual, but \"synthetic\"
  screenshots, done with some sort of a ClearType emulator and not a real browser?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Their screenshot appears to be using regular antialiasing (The XP default)
    not ClearType. Try that option and see if it matches.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2011-06-04 03:14:02'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Tried just now, not a match either it seems.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typekit-adelle-real-greyscale_5339.png]"
  created: '2011-06-04 05:03:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Ironically, Cleartype is worse than Greyscale for large sizes. Sii is right,
    Win XP has Standard Greyscale rendering as default, leaving 95% of all webfonts
    unusable for body copy.
  created: '2011-06-04 10:54:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Are there any good stats concerning the installed-base of XP versus Vista/7?\r\n\r\nAlso:
    what's the remaining 5%?\r\n\r\nRelated:\r\nhttp://typographica.org/2011/on-typography/the-state-of-webfont-quality-from-a-type-designers-view/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 14:55:42'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Drop it, gents, please. This is not an issue of Greyscale vs ClearType.\r\n\r\nI
    want to understand why Typekit's sample looks nothing like what I am seeing in
    my browser."
  created: '2011-06-04 18:18:28'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>This is not an issue of Greyscale vs ClearType.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grayscale_vs_cleartype_4190.png]\r\n\r\nZooming
    in on the samples you provided, you can clearly see the monochrome and softed
    Greyscale rendering (above, from Typekit\u2019s screenshot) compared with Cleartype\u2019s
    use of coloured pixels to trig the subpixels (below). Is this not what you are
    talking about?\r\n\r\nUhm, it appears I overlooked your earlier post ..."
  created: '2011-06-04 18:29:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mac_5686.png]\r\nHere\u2019s the Mac
    rendering."
  created: '2011-06-04 18:33:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "AFAIK there are even different iterations of CT: in the more recent one vertical
    anti-aliasing is enabled - so for example the top of the \"f\" wouldn't look aliased
    like in that zoom. And in one iteration or another subpixel <em>positioning</em>
    is also used.\r\n\r\nBTW I'm not pretending this is 100% about the original question.
    It's a <em>good</em> thing that Typophile posts are rarely limited to helping
    a single person learn something.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 18:35:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sloppy. With the occasional exception of overshoots, extrema of grayscale
    letterforms should be solid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-04 18:43:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>AFAIK there are even different iterations of CT: in the more recent
    one vertical anti-aliasing is enabled</em>\r\n\r\nYes, this is the case with the
    DWrite implementation of ClearType, as implemented in IE9, but this is not available
    to XP."
  created: '2011-06-05 00:38:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Apankrat, the difference in rendering is definitely down to greyscale vs ClearType
    rendering, as Frode's enlargements show, but the antialiasing choice may be implemented
    at a level independent of the OS rendering controls that Si pointed to. I have
    not examined Firefox 3.6 on XP, but in Firefox 4.0 it is possible to affect the
    antialiasing used in the browser's internal options (for instance, it is possible
    to turn on DWrite rendering in FF4 under Vista and Win7). So perhaps there is
    a setting in the Firefox config file?
  created: '2011-06-05 00:42:50'
- author:
    name: Dan B.
    picture: 114033
  body: "So is anyone here implying (or actually stating) that Typekit have tweaked
    various settings as to achieve the best possible rendering without saying so?
    \r\n\r\n[On a side note, I'm not particularly happy with how Adelle renders on
    Win. I hope Type Together give it the same treatment as the other faces they recently
    re-hinted.]"
  created: '2011-06-05 01:09:59'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "Well, here's an update. I got another reply from Typekit support, this time
    it was sensible and more technical and it did point at the ClearType being a culprit.
    Apparently their screenshot is made with greyscale anti-aliasing, not ClearType,
    and this what makes Adelle look pretty on XP.\r\n\r\nI managed to confirm that
    on one of two XP laptops I have at my disposal, however on the other laptop I
    am still seeing jagged Adelle regardless of the OS anti-aliasing settings. (edit)
    Latter is running Firefox 5.0 though, will need to double check if this is relevant
    or not.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAs far as conspiracy theories go - I do believe that
    they bend the reality their way by showing the best of two possible screenshots
    for XP, and not even mentioning that enabled ClearType creates rather serious
    rendering issues.\r\n\r\nI had one of my websites serving a small JavaScript that
    tests for the anti-aliasing type used on the client side. Just pulled the stats
    off the database and <strong>from 498 Firefox/XP visitors, 486 had ClearType enabled</strong>.
    So that's the \"XP would typically have ClearType off\" myth going down the drain.
    All these people would've looked at a crappy version of Adelle if I were to use
    it naively trusting the Typekit's browser samples.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 07:03:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"XP would typically have ClearType off\" myth \r\n\r\nGrayscale <EM>is</EM>
    the default, but more recent versions of IE (and some other apps) force on CT."
  created: '2011-06-05 08:30:10'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: "Alex: The stats of your anti-aliasing type detection seemed very high for
    the ClearType, so I made a quick search and found that the javascript you are
    using (<a href=\"http://www.useragentman.com/blog/2009/11/29/how-to-detect-font-smoothing-using-javascript\">link</a>)
    unfortunately doesn\u2019t recognize the difference between ClearType and Standard
    anti-aliasing \u2013 it only tells whether the font is aliased or not.\r\nHowever,
    it would be interesting to know the true results, only the script has to be modified
    to detect if there are any pixels which have different values of subpixels for
    a black type on white \u2013 if so, they are rendered in CT.\r\nThe second screenshot
    you posted is strange, it features both Standard and ClearType. Sometimes I have
    to refresh/restart the browser to see that I enabled CT.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 11:30:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I had one of my websites serving a small JavaScript that tests for the anti-aliasing
    type used on the client side. Just pulled the stats off the database and from
    498 Firefox/XP visitors, 486 had ClearType enabled. So that's the \"XP would typically
    have ClearType off\" myth...\r\n\r\nIs your js distinguishing between the two
    kinds of aa on xp? I.e.  does your survey show 486/498 use CT and the other 12
    are split tween aliased and standard?"
  created: '2011-06-05 11:41:55'
- author:
    name: miha
    picture: 114097
  body: Alex, I looked more closely and saw that you already modified the script ...
    still, the numbers seem very high. It could be that Standard Windows rendering
    when anti-aliased doesn't return alpha-based image but already alpha "baked",
    but I don't know.
  created: '2011-06-05 12:19:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Alex, you'd be doing the font world a great service by writing a truly lucid
    version of your JavaScript snooper, and hopefully not only providing the results
    but even making it available for others to use via their sites (because everybody
    has a different flavor of average visitor). It would need to: distinguish the
    exact type of rendering; convey the <em>associated</em> browser being used; and
    use a very large sample. I used to rely on thecounter.com, but eventually that
    became too limited and now it seems to have stopped in early 2009.\r\n\r\nPlease?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 14:31:23'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> <em>Is your js distinguishing between the two kinds of aa on xp? I.e. does
    your survey show 486/498 use CT and the other 12 are split tween aliased and standard?</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I can tell apart CT and GS (greyscale). Here is the script, have a look - http://bvckup.com/js/font-smoothing.js.
    There is a single function and it returns 0 for failed detection, 10 for no smooting,
    20 for greyscale, 25 for IE with smoothing (see below) and 30 for ClearType.\r\n\r\n498
    is a number of Firefox visitors on XP, 486 using ClearType and for the remaining
    12 the detection failed. In other words not a single <em>detected</em> one used
    standard or aliased.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nHrant, the script is linked above. Note
    though that in the IE it is <em>not</em> possible to tell CT and GS apart <em>at
    all</em>. I have wrecked my head over different options for over a month and gave
    up. See, for example, <a href=http://typophile.com/node/78360>this thread</a>
    for one of the attempts. There is a way to detect CT/GS by making a Flash applet
    render a glyph, but that would detect an OS level setting, which may (and most
    likely will be) overridden by the IE.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nmiha, with regards to the
    CT number being that high I think there is a very simple explanation. IE7 was
    a part of Windows Update at some point if I am not mistaken. That would've forced
    it on a very large number of XP users enabling CT. That's it. CT is the new default
    for fully patched XP.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 18:47:41'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Please? :-)\r\n\r\nNot a firm promise, but give me a couple of days :)"
  created: '2011-06-05 18:48:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> not a single <em>detected</em> one used standard or aliased.\r\n\r\nConsidering
    this\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Usage_share_of_operating_systems\r\nI have
    to think there's something wrong here. Can we really believe\r\nthat a huge proportion
    of XP users delve in and change the rendering\r\ndefault? People have trouble
    changing the Times (and now Calibri)\r\ndefault in Word!  :-/\r\n\r\nI understand
    that newer versions of IE use CT no matter the OS setting.\r\nBut the OS setting
    is not altered. Plus you said those stats are for Firefox.\r\nAnd in any case
    we can't ignore the penetration of Firefox!\r\n\r\n> There is a way to detect
    CT/GS by making a Flash applet\r\n> render a glyph, but that would detect an OS
    level setting\r\n\r\nBut coupled to a detection of which browser is\r\nbeing used,
    wouldn't that cover things nicely?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 19:02:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You know, if you were to whip up something that generates robust stats on
    this stuff via a pertinent, high-traffic site* I think you can guarantee yourself
    a lot of airtime at TypeCon and/or ATypI. Which BTW is not [necessarily] about
    vanity - exposure leads to commissions.\r\n\r\n* Guess where would be ideal...
    Typophile!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 19:04:18'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Nah, Typophiles have too high a number of Macs and savvy Windows users too
    give us any relevant numbers.
  created: '2011-06-05 19:08:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But those are the font <em>buyers</em> too!  :-)\r\nCertainly though the
    more sites you leverage the better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-05 19:21:26'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: I installed XP SP3 on a freshly formatted notebook last summer. I attempted
    to turn on ClearType out of habit but it had already been activated. Perhaps later
    versions of XP have ClearType on by default or it checks the display hardware.
  created: '2011-06-06 10:20:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "A>Yeah, I can tell apart CT and GS (greyscale). \r\n\r\nIn Firefox. \r\n\r\n>...in
    the IE it is not possible to tell CT and GS apart at all. \r\n\r\nUgly. kinda
    happy I assume CT \"or else\" in web fonts for windows.\r\n\r\nHP>...extrema of
    grayscale letterforms should be solid.\r\n\r\nThe diagonals, non-extremes of curves
    and lots of other letterform edges technically and absolutely cannot be solid.
    Then what?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 14:40:57'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Hrant: They are font <em>buyers</em>, not font <em>readers</em>.'
  created: '2011-06-06 15:13:01'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\n\r\nTim Brown here, Type Manager for Typekit.\r\n\r\nAlex,
    I'm sorry our support team didn't immediately pinpoint the nature of your question.
    We receive frequent inquiries about web type rendering, and the issue you have
    noticed is very similar to Windows rendering support requests we can often solve
    by explaining (in general) how type rendering technology works.\r\n\r\nOur screenshots
    are taken by real browsers with default OS/browser settings.\r\n\r\nAs Si mentioned,
    Windows XP does use Standard antialiasing by default. However, if you're using
    IE7 on XP, or any browser on a machine where IE8 happens to be installed, ClearType
    will be enabled (Typekit's series of blog posts on type rendering, to which our
    support team initially pointed you, [[http://blog.typekit.com/2010/10/21/type-rendering-web-browsers/|explains
    this]] and more). For these reasons, the percentage of XP users seeing ClearType-rendered
    fonts is indeed greater than default browser/OS settings would make things seem.
    That percentage varies by audience, though, so it's excellent that you are paying
    such attention to your own visitors via your detection script.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    one other point:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>As far as conspiracy theories go - I do believe
    that they bend the reality their way by showing the best of two possible screenshots
    for XP</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWe do not bend reality. We do our best to explain,
    and show, what's going on in each of many possible font/browser/OS mixes, and
    we're learning more every day. You used the phrase, \"the best of two possible
    screenshots.\" While we're on the subject of multiple possibilities, I'd like
    to share some of our latest R&D.\r\n\r\nMany fonts, even well-instructed ones,
    do not look good at large sizes on Windows with GDI ClearType enabled; some of
    the same things that help small text look crisp make large text look choppy. On
    the other hand, large text rendered with GDI Standard antialiasing looks smooth.
    Wouldn't it be great if ClearType were active when type is used small, and Standard
    were active when type is used large?\r\n\r\nThe answer might lie in serving files
    with PostScript outlines when type is meant to be used large and serving files
    with instructed TrueType outlines when type is meant to be used small. In many
    Windows browsers, PostScript outlines trigger Standard antialiasing even when
    ClearType is enabled.\r\n\r\nAlready this year, our developers have restructured
    the way Typekit fonts are stored, processed, and previewed so that we can test
    theories like this. We'll continue to do our best to explain each improvement
    that happens as a result of such work.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2011-06-06 16:42:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The diagonals, non-extremes of curves and lots of other letterform\r\n>
    edges technically and absolutely cannot be solid. Then what?\r\n\r\nDo you mean
    that the contrast between grayscale parts and totally solid parts is unpleasant,
    so we should just make everything blurry? If so, I admit that's something to consider,
    but to me in the end:\r\n- Blurry has its own inherent ugliness.\r\n- When we're
    reading blur is more damaging than that contrast.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn that big
    \"Cl\", look at the inside tips of the serifs of the \"C\", and look at\r\nthe
    top of the el; do you really think that's better than making them solid?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 17:49:36'
- author:
    name: zoltan
    picture: 118266
  body: "Hello all,\r\n\r\nThank you @apankrat for directing me here. As the author
    of the original JavaScript that you based your work on, I'd like to share the
    reason why I created the script and how it is relavent to this discussion.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I wrote the font-smoothing detection script, it was because I noticed that some
    embedded fonts looked horrible under XP, which was (and still is) the standard
    platform of the telecom I used to work for. A standard XP SP3 image at that shop
    always had font-smoothing off. They still use Office 2003 as their standard Office
    suite and IE6 due to legacy apps that require it, whuch may be the reason why
    their XP image has not font-smoothing enabled at all. This company will be off
    this platform by the end of this year (I believe ... I no longer work for them,
    but it seems like this is still true). Most telecoms and banks that I have IT
    friends working at in Canada still run this antiquated combination. I hope not
    for long, but I don't call the shots there ... these are institutions that are
    not known for their up-to-date IT infrastructure (keep in mind that these dudes
    still have COBOL code from the 1980s kicking around on their systems).\r\n\r\nThe
    primary reason why I wrote the script was so that I could serve a different font
    to this audience ... it just so happened that there were other web surfers that
    were still using IE6 without font-smoothing on. While that latter audience has
    dwindled quite a bit, I don't think the former has, and this audience may not
    have been picked up in the user sample in the experiment above.\r\n\r\nSo, my
    gut feel (i.e. non-scientific) is that if, in the next year, your audience *may*
    contain old conserative companies that has a lot of legacy intranet web apps that
    they are still migrating over to a modern browser like a telecom or a bank, you
    may want to ensure that you use something like my or @apankrat's font-smoothing
    script to serve alternative fonts to that audience (for those interested, [[http://www.useragentman.com/blog/2009/11/29/how-to-detect-font-smoothing-using-javascript/|my
    version of the script is located here]]).\r\n\r\nMy $0.02, for what it's worth.\r\n\r\nZ."
  created: '2011-06-07 02:22:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tim: <em>Wouldn't it be great if ClearType were active when type is used
    small, and Standard were active when type is used large?</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what
    MS Word does on Windows. Unfortunately, they implemented it at the application
    level at a default point size (20-something, as I recall), regardless of either
    individual typeface design relative to em or resolution. Ideally, this sort of
    behaviour -- and several others affecting aspects of font smoothing, subpixel
    spacing, etc. -- would be set at the font level, in extensions to the gasp table.
    This would enable font makers to optimise these behaviours relative to specific
    design characteristics.\r\n\r\n<em>In many Windows browsers, PostScript outlines
    trigger Standard antialiasing even when ClearType is enabled.</em>\r\n\r\nYeeeees,
    but... Windows PS greyscale antialiasing is not the same 'Standard' antialiasing
    as applied to TrueType. If you are able to control which format you send on the
    basis of font size, then the PS fonts will look better at larger sizes under GDI,
    but may look much worse than even auto-hinted TrueType at text sizes.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nPS.
    I see that you mentioned GDI ClearType specifically in part of your response;
    thanks for that. Given that GDI and DWrite ClearType are so different, in both
    the x- and y-direction, I think we should consistently identify which we are discussing
    when making statements about ClearType."
  created: '2011-06-07 05:04:40'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "As per some earlier comments, I've put together a page to try and quantify
    the use of ClearType on the Web - http://swapped.cc/font-smoothing\r\n\r\nThe
    page hosts and includes tiny JavaScript that tests browser's rasterization method
    and then posts the result back to the server. So far I have about 6500 samples
    (fewer if uniques are considered), but they came mostly from my own traffic and
    it won't hurt to diversify them.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, there is a HTML one-liner
    that can be dropping into any existing web page and it will run the same test
    and record the result when the page is loaded. If you can embed the script in
    some sites under your control, it would mean better diversity and quicker sample
    accumulation. I am working on the <a href=\"http://swapped.cc/font-smoothing/stats\">Statistics</a>
    page, and it should be up and running in few days.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts or comments
    - I am all ears. And don't forget to click that link to let my script to look
    at your rasterizer.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n@Tim, regarding bending of the reality -
    there was <a href=http://typophile.com/node/69902#comment-409046>another thread</a>
    on a similar subject and it too revolved around rendering issues and TypeKit not
    providing an easy way to filter out Windows-unfriendly fonts. This was over a
    year ago, and I don't think anything changed. Not simple flag saying \"this font
    is not recommended for use on Windows (in small/large sizes)\". No community-driven
    font rating as per sii's suggestion. Nothing to help me decide <em>against</em>
    using Adelle if I have a large Windows audience. Add to that XP sample that actually
    acts the opposite way and then do tell me that this whole situation does not look
    a bit strange.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-07 06:04:07'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "<em>The second screenshot you posted is strange, it features both Standard
    and ClearType. Sometimes I have to refresh/restart the browser to see that I enabled
    CT.</em>\r\n\r\nNot strange at all, as Firefox respects the system-wide anti-aliasing
    settings for local fonts, but has its own option for downloaded fonts, gfx.font_rendering.cleartype.use_for_downloadable_fonts,
    which is set to true by default."
  created: '2011-06-07 09:11:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH> I think we should consistently identify which we are discussing when
    making statements about ClearType.\r\n\r\nWill you design different outlines for
    GDI and DW? hint them differently? what's the difference to the developer?\r\n\r\nJH>
    If you are able to control which format you send on the basis of font size,\r\n\r\nCSS
    is mostly not ready for this as far as I know, and completely not ready if the
    user zooms through the server's division between formats. \r\n\r\nTB> We do not
    bend reality. \r\n\r\nI'm a complete believer in this. But then again, anyone
    who publishes web fonts that have the word \"Web\" in the font name, is likely
    to be bending reality, somewhat ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-07 11:58:53'
date: '2011-06-04 03:04:51'
title: Typekit and the discrepancy between their browser samples and real life

---
