---
author:
  name: Rob Mientjes
  picture: 111251
body: "I've been working on the specimen booklet for my graduation typeface (part
  digitisation of Manuscript Antikva, part stylistic extrapolation), and have run
  into the curious situation of not being able to use one of my designed characters.\r\n\r\nAs
  Adam Twardoch mentions [[http://typophile.com/node/33647|here]], uppercase \xDF
  will still map to SS. Oddly, however, InDesign CS5 allows me to input the capital
  Eszett just fine. However, the small-caps variant is seemingly impossible (I've
  attached a screenshot of the usual situation upon insertion\u2014small-caps SS).
  I can only think of placing it in the Private Use Area, but I'd rather not. So,
  in short, how can I access the actual glyph at codespace uni00DF.sc without InDesign
  telling me what it's supposed to be?"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Shouldn\u2019t the small-cap \xDF be placed by the app as a variant of the
    regular one?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/essz_6711.png]"
  created: '2011-06-05 23:33:56'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "sub uni1E9E by uni1E9E.sc; will work\r\n\r\ngermandbls to SS is hard coded
    and InDesign programmers don't get it. \r\nBTW: In InDesign (pre CS versions)
    1 to 2.0 it will work."
  created: '2011-06-06 00:17:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The glyph should be accessible through the \"smcp\" feature of the font:
    \r\n\r\n<code>feature smcp { \r\n  sub a by a.smcp;\r\n  sub b by b.smcp;\r\n
    \ ...\r\n  sub germandbls by germandbls.smcp;\r\n  ...\r\n} smcp;</code>\r\n\r\n(As
    should all the other small-cap letters). \r\n\r\nIn InDesign, it would be accessible
    through the \"Small caps\" option in the Character palette. I'm not aware of any
    situations where InDesign would perform some behind-the-scenes additional operations
    when applying small caps. \r\n\r\nIn addition, you'll probably want to have the
    \"c2sc\" feature in your font which maps uppercase letters to the small-cap variants.
    You can choose to create an additional set of small cap glyphs for those (identical
    in shape but with different glyph names, so a small-cap \"A\" would exist in the
    font as \"a.smcp\" and as \"A.c2sc\") or you could just use the same set (named
    whatever you wish). \r\n\r\nIf you go with the separate sets, then the small-cap
    \xDF would exist as \"germandbls.smcp\" and as \"uni1E9E.c2sc\", and the code
    for \"c2sc\" would be then: \r\n\r\n<code>feature c2sc { \r\n  sub A by A.c2sc;\r\n
    \ sub B by B.c2sc;\r\n  ...\r\n  sub uni1E9E by uni1E9E.c2sc;\r\n  ...\r\n} c2sc;</code>\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2011-06-06 00:21:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I differ from Adam on this.\r\n\r\nI've put this character in my fonts since
    it was introduced in Unicode, but only make it available through c2sc, not smcp.\r\n\r\nIn
    the smcp feature, \xDF maps to a special double-s glyph.\r\nThis is so that \"caps
    with small caps\"\u2014which is what, in implementation, smcp really is \u2014
    is a true bicameral setting, corresponding with the way that \xDF is capitalized
    by layout engines.\r\n\r\nHowever, if the special Eszett character exists as text
    in a cap setting (never as titlecase, of course!), that makes it OK to have it
    in the c2sc feature\u2014which is, in implementation, \"all small caps\"."
  created: '2011-06-06 00:46:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'm not really advocating any particular design solution, I'm just suggesting
    a coding solution. \r\n\r\nThe decision what kind of shape to put as a small-cap
    \xDF which is intended to work in \"smcp\" is up to the designer. I mean, whether
    your \"germandbls.smcp\" looks like a small-cap version of the uppercase \"\xDF\"
    or if it's a smallcap \"ss\" is a design decision. But the code I've given will
    work either way. "
  created: '2011-06-06 01:56:37'
- author:
    name: Rob Mientjes
    picture: 111251
  body: "Thanks for all the replies! I'm pretty sure Andreas is actually outlining
    what I'm saying: InDesign has it hardcoded, and that makes it impossible to input.
    To check up on my sanity, here is the OpenType in place:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n@LC_ALPHA
    = [a-z germandbls];\r\n@UC_ALPHA = [A-Z uni1E9E];\r\n@UC_SMCP = [A.sc-Z.sc uni1E9E.sc];</code>\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    c2sc {\r\n  sub @UC_ALPHA by @UC_SMCP;\r\n  sub @LC_ALPHA by @UC_SMCP;\r\n  sub
    @LC_PUNCT by @SMCP_PUNCT;\r\n  sub @PNUMS by @SCNUMS;\r\n  sub @ONUMS by @SCNUMS;\r\n}
    c2sc;</code>\r\n\r\n(I realise I'm conflating c2sc and smcp; that's laziness,
    and will be resolved as soon as I get to the final designs.)"
  created: '2011-06-06 17:36:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This line is not necessary in c2sc:\r\n\r\nsub @LC_ALPHA by @UC_SMCP;\r\n\r\nAlso,
    for @LC_SMCP, make sure that germandbls is substituted by \"germandbls.smcp\",
    which is two small cap \"s\"s.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThis is what should happen:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gross_3971.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    fact that \"mixed case to small caps/all small caps\" loses the distinction between
    Gross and Gro\xDF follows on from the way that layout engines convert \"mixed
    case to all caps\", losing the distinction there (although it is maintained in
    the underlying text). This is because traditionally there was no cap eszett accessible
    in most fonts or via keyboards, and this behaviour has been grandfathered.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 19:10:17'
- author:
    name: Rob Mientjes
    picture: 111251
  body: "Hey Nick,\r\n\r\nThanks for clarifying. Changed germandbls.smcp to two smcp-'s's.
    I finally understand the point about the SS-conversion. I've changed my OpenType
    code, but am not sure about its functionality. In FontLab, c2sc just swaps the
    caps? And InDesign combines c2sc and smcp when selecting All Small Caps? I am
    not sure. Here's my OpenType code.\r\n\r\nfeature smcp {\r\n  sub @LC_ALPHA by
    @LC_SMCP;\r\n} smcp;\r\n\r\nfeature c2sc {\r\n  sub @UC_ALPHA by @UC_C2SC;\r\n
    \ sub @LC_PUNCT by @SMCP_PUNCT;\r\n  sub @PNUMS by @SCNUMS;\r\n  sub @ONUMS by
    @SCNUMS;\r\n} c2sc;\r\n\r\n[update]\r\nAll of this worked! InDesign allows me
    to input small cap uni1E9E when cap uni1E9E is used, and otherwise inserts 'ss'.
    Thanks a lot for all the help."
  created: '2011-06-06 21:32:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Yes, in InDesign, \"all small caps\" invokes both \"smcp\" and \"c2sc\".
    \r\n\r\nAlso, I tested the substitution: \r\n\r\nfeature smcp { \r\n  sub germandbls
    by germandbls.smcp; \r\n} smcp; \r\n\r\nin InDesign CS5 Middle East on Mac OS
    X, and it I found that when using the \"Paragraph Composer\", then \"\xDF\" is
    indeed converted to \"ss\" before \"smcp\" is applied, while when using the \"World-Ready
    Paragraph Composer\", germandbls is indeed being substituted directly. \r\n\r\nMy
    guess is that when using \"Paragraph Composer\", when the \"Small Caps\" is applied,
    InDesign converts all lowercase text in the string to uppercase, and then to lowercase
    again, using the Unicode case mapping rules, and the \"smcp\" feature is applied
    after that. When using the \"World-Ready Paragraph Composer\" is used, the \"smcp\"
    feature is applies without any preprocessing. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/smcp-germandbls_6401.png]\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-06 23:13:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And what does it do when \"all caps\" is applied?\r\nDoes it turn \xDF into
    cap eszett?\r\n\r\n(Sorry, I don't have the latest version of CS.)"
  created: '2011-06-07 03:19:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>Does it turn \xDF into cap eszett?</em>\r\n\r\nIt certainly shouldn't.
    Bear in mind that the cap eszett character is a minority display preference: the
    formal case mapping of lowercase \xDF to uppercase is still SS, according to both
    German standard spelling and Unicode case mapping."
  created: '2011-06-08 01:20:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: <em> \u2026the formal case mapping of lowercase \xDF to uppercase is
    still SS\u2026 </em>\r\n\r\nIs this likely to change, as more and more fonts incorporate
    the new Unicode character?\r\n\r\nAre German typographers exercising the \"minority
    display preference\"?\r\n\r\nIt's been three years since the new character was
    formalized in Unicode.\r\n\r\nIs it part of any standard encodings?\r\n\r\nHow
    many new fonts include it?\r\n\r\nHow many foundries include it in all new fonts
    as a matter of course?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 04:25:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The German standard spelling regarding \xDF to SS is not likely to change
    based on font character set support. I suspect that, like most bodies that add
    words to language and regulate spelling, changes to German orthography will be
    made based on a combination of history and current use of how the language is
    spoken and written. German recently had a big spelling reform; whether another
    top-down reform could come in the near future \u2026 I have no idea.\r\n\r\nOne
    should not judge what practicing German typographers are doing based on glyph
    design discussions of a certain number of type designers alone. The pros and cons
    of the cap eszett are still quite active topics of discussion among German typographers.
    No particular feeling toward the new form is universal yet. I certainly know plenty
    of type designers, book designers, and typography professors who are not in favor
    of cap eszett use.\r\n\r\n><em>How many foundries include it in all new fonts
    as a matter of course?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I work at the largest foundry in the
    country, and we do not include these new glyphs in all new fonts as a matter of
    course. In fact, we include them in hardly any new fonts. There are a few fonts
    with them now, but only because the type designers behind the fonts wanted to
    include them. Otherwise (in the majority of cases, in fact), they are not part
    of the character set. Some of the type designers that I work with are actually
    relieved about this, because they are not in favor of the cap eszett yet either,
    and do not want to have to draw them just for the sake of character set completion."
  created: '2011-06-08 07:09:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "You cited the wrong part of John's post. :)\r\nComing up with some character,
    unicoding it and adding it to fonts is one thing. But unless there will be yet
    another spelling reform ...\r\n\r\n[Replying to Nick.]"
  created: '2011-06-08 07:13:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Thank you, Karsten, for saying in so few words what I could not get across
    with so many!
  created: '2011-06-08 07:17:10'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Unfortunately I saw your comment only after posting mine which reloaded the
    page ...\r\nGood to know about the largest foundry's praxis as to this character!\r\nIsn't
    it largest foundry in Europe by now? :) "
  created: '2011-06-08 13:46:42'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Well, in terms of library size, as well as the number of fonts and the number
    of staff working on those fonts, I guess that ITC-Linotype-Monotype could be called
    the largest foundry at the moment; in Europe and elsewhere.
  created: '2011-06-08 14:59:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the candid response, Dan.\r\nIt's good to know that MegaFont GmbH
    isn't totally behind this new gizmo\u2014gives me the edge!\r\nI quite enjoy drawing
    the character. More fun than Aringacute or Greenlandic k."
  created: '2011-06-08 18:20:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nothing is more fun than Armenian.  :-)\r\nSmall character set, the familiarity
    of left-to-right non-joining forms in two cases,\r\nand half a dozen characters
    at least as challenging as the Latin lc binocular \"g\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-08 18:49:42'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>The German standard spelling regarding \xDF to SS is not likely to
    change based on font character set support. </cite>\r\n\r\nWell, of course the
    change of the standard spelling requires a sufficient support of the character
    in typical operating systems first. Everything else would be madness.\r\nAnd the
    common dictionary publishers like DUDEN will follow whatever the users make their
    standard. \r\n\r\nAnd actually, I am surprised how many users actually use it
    even today\u2014especially on the internet. Even though there are no easy input
    methods yet and even though many readers will still see a NOT DEF sign instead.
    \ It is spreading\u2014whether the conservative typographers like it or not.\r\n\r\nBut
    apart from that I fully agree, the standard is still \xDF to SS in uppercase and
    small caps and fonts, design applications and browsers should implement it that
    way. (Maybe leaving additional options for using the cap Eszett instead in stylistic
    sets and the like.)"
  created: '2011-06-08 20:25:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess there will always be disagreement between German speakers about the
    use of that glyph--some even quite passionate about it. I usually include it but
    not for any philosophical reason.  I just put it in there for those who need it.
    \ I don't care to get involved in the pro and con positions opposing sides site.
    \ Those who want it can use it and those who don't can just ignore it. I put there
    just like the florin, AE Ring acute, etc. and let the user have the option if
    so desired.  I include it in the c2sc code and as a stylistic alternate to the
    S_S.sc glyph.\r\n\r\nMy understanding is that the majority of uses involve proper
    names mostly of towns and cities."
  created: '2011-06-08 20:58:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The strongest argument I have heard in favour of the new Unicode character,
    from a German, is that it enables reliable one-to-one round-trip case mapping,
    which is desirable in data management for things like e.g. passport control. There
    are apparently some German names in which a distinction between \xDF and ss is
    critical, and different government agencies store names in all uppercase or in
    mixed case.\r\n\r\nOf course, this has nothing to do with the design of the glyph,
    but only with the existence of the distinct codepoint for an uppercase eszett,
    which might ostensibly be displayed as /SS/."
  created: '2011-06-09 06:02:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "On the subject of Duden, it is worth noting that the 1957 <em>East</em> German
    Duden (Lepizig) provides one of the notable instances of an uppercase eszett.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EszettLeipzig_4133.png]"
  created: '2011-06-09 06:08:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ralf: <em>And the common dictionary publishers like DUDEN will follow whatever
    the users make their standard.</em>\r\n\r\nMy impression of Duden is that it tends
    to favour a top-down approach to spelling, reflecting official decision making
    rather than popular usage. Duden seemed to be key in disseminating the recent
    spelling reform."
  created: '2011-06-09 06:09:03'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I guess there will always be disagreement between German speakers about
    the use of that glyph</cite>\r\n\r\nI predict it will be a transition over one
    or two generations. Same thing happened for the Umlauts. They started out as a
    lowercase ligature and when their use was common, the uppercase versions slowly
    appeared and are now standard too. We are used to them now, so no one is questioning
    the existence of those characters, even though\u2014ironically\u2014their formal
    development from a lowercase letter is something that some experts now use as
    an argument against the cap Eszett. \r\n\r\n<cite>the strongest argument I have
    heard in favour of the new Unicode character, from a German, is that it enables
    reliable one-to-one round-trip case mapping<cite>\r\n\r\nWell, of course. This
    is how every Western alphabet works. See also http://opentype.info/blog/2011/01/24/capital-sharp-s/\r\nAnd
    that's why I always get a little mad, when typographers(!) call the cap Eszett
    a \u201Csilly\u201D idea. It is silly not to have a lowercase AND uppercase version
    of any character in any Western alphabet. Its the most basic principle. \r\n\r\n<cite>My
    impression of Duden is that it tends to favour a top-down approach to spelling,
    reflecting official decision making rather than popular usage. </cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    do both. Of course they follow the spelling reform, because this is now the new
    standard. But when new words or new spellings become widely used, they list these
    also, even though they are not in the official German orthography. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 08:01:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I agree with Ralf. There is also a strong linguistic reason for having an
    \u201Cuppercase \xDF\u201D (<strong>U+1E9E</strong>, \u1E9E) adopted widely: \r\n\r\nIn
    the pre-1996 German spelling, the basic principle for writing consonants after
    a vowel was: \r\n\u2014 if the vowel is long, write a single consonant (in \u201CBote\u201D,
    the \u201Co\u201D is long)\r\n\u2014 if the vowel is short, write a doubled consonant
    (in \u201CGott\u201D, the \u201Co\u201D is short)\r\n\r\nThis was a very reliable
    rule, that also applied to \u201Cs\u201D and \u201Css\u201D, e.g. in \u201CMus\u201D,
    the \u201Cu\u201D was long, and in \u201CMasse\u201D, the \u201Ca\u201D was short.
    The only exception was \u201C\xDF\u201D where the behavior was \u201Cundefined\u201D.
    If \u201C\xDF\u201D followed a vowel, you never knew whether the preceding vowel
    was long (as in \u201Cgro\xDF\u201D) or short (as in \u201Cmu\xDF\u201D or \u201Cda\xDF\u201D).
    The reader needed to \u201Cmemorize\u201D the pronunciation. So \u201C\xDF\u201D
    was viewed as an ambiguous letter that was either \u201Csingle\u201D or \u201Cdoubled\u201D
    depending on the context. This was correct historically, because \u201C\xDF\u201D
    was originally a doubled letter, and then a ligature. \r\n\r\nBut in the 1996
    spelling reform a rule was introduced, which has been kept up in the 2006 \u201Creform
    of the reform\u201D that \u201C\xDF\u201D is a single letter. So all situations
    where the preceding vowel was long kept the \u201C\xDF\u201D (\u201Cgro\xDF\u201D
    is the new spelling) while in all the situations where the vowel was short, the
    \u201C\xDF\u201D was replaced by \u201Css\u201D (\u201Cmuss\u201D, \u201Cdass\u201D
    is the new spelling). \r\n\r\nSo now, German is written very logically, and the
    single-or-doubled consonant rule is reliable. But this has repercussions. \r\n\r\nAll
    the readers who grow up with the new spelling, or adopted it quickly (such as
    myself) rely on the rule blindly. In the words \u201CRu\xDFpartikel\u201D or \u201CGro\xDFenkel\u201D,
    it is absolutely obvious that the vowels preceding \u201C\xDF\u201D are long.
    It\u2019s automatic, there is no doubt about it. \r\n\r\nSo, \u201C\xDF\u201D
    <strong>is</strong> a single letter. \r\n\r\nBut hang on... Not when the word
    is written in uppercase! When I convert the word to uppercase using the currently
    valid rules, I get \u201CRUSSPARTIKEL\u201D or \u201CGROSSENKEL\u201D, and then
    the acquired reading automatism <strong>forces</strong> me to think that the \u201CU\u201D
    vowel in the first word or the \u201CO\u201D vowel in the second word is short.
    So I mispronounce the words. \r\n\r\nThis of course is most problematic for personal
    names, where you don\u2019t really know a \u201Cmemorized\u201D pronunciation.
    \u201CFrank Mussmann\u201D: \u201Cu\u201D is short, of course. \u201CFrank Mu\xDFmann\u201D:
    \u201Cu\u201D is long, of course. But \u201CFRANK MUSSMANN\u201D? \u201CWell of
    course, the U is short\u201D, says my reading automatism. But I may be wrong!
    \r\n\r\n<strong>If</strong> \u201C\xDF\u201D is a <strong>single letter</strong>
    now, why is its uppercase representation a doubled letter? That\u2019s now (<strong>after</strong>
    the 1996-2006 reforms) <strong>less</strong> logical than it was before. It\u2019s
    now completely counter-intuitive. \r\n\r\nSo I strongly presume that the reason
    why the case conversion rules were not changed in 1996 or 2006 was <strong>purely
    technical</strong>. I.e., there was no technical means to represent a \u201Cmore
    logical conversion\u201D, because the uppercase \u201C\xDF\u201D character was
    not codified or even \u201Cinvented\u201D. \r\n\r\nAndreas St\xF6tzner\u2019s
    Unicode proposal has resolved this barrier. The Windows 7 versions of the Microsoft
    core fonts (Arial, Times New Roman etc.) have been revised to include the U+1E9E
    character (\u1E9E), and more and more fonts are coming out that include it. A
    <a href=\u201Chttp://new.myfonts.com/search/char%3A%E1%BA%9E/fonts/\u201D>search
    at MyFonts</a> reveals 106 families that include the uppercase \xDF character.
    Not many, but I\u2019m sure more are coming. \r\n\r\nSo we\u2019re in a technical
    transitional period now. Just like with the Euro currency character, the technical
    support needs to be there first (fonts and keyboard layouts), but at some point
    people will be adopting \u1E9E more and more widely \u2014 because it\u2019s the
    <strong>only logical thing</strong> to do. \r\n\r\nArguments against it are based
    purely on tradition and history. Arguments for it are based on linguistics, pragmaticism,
    logic and practicality. Go figure who will \u201Cwin\u201D in the longer term
    :)\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 14:47:58'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "<strong>UPDATE:</strong> In 2010, the German Federal Agency for Cartography
    and Geodesy (\u201CBundesamt fu\u0308r Kartographie und Geoda\u0308sie\u201D)
    published the 5th revised edition of the document <a href=\"http://www.stagn.de/Portals/0/101125_TopR5.pdf\">\u201CToponymic
    guidelines for map and other editors for international use Federal Republic of
    Germany\u201D</a>. \r\n\r\nSection 1.1.3 of this document says: \r\n\r\n<blockquote><cite>1.1.3
    Special letter \u1E9E \xDF\r\nThe special letter \xDF (\u201Cstrong s\u201D) existed
    hitherto only as small letter (minuscule). In 2007 DIN and ISO accepted the capital
    letter \u1E9E which is rendered on position 1E9E of the Unicode character tables.
    In official spelling it must not be substituted by any other letter combination,
    as e.g. SS, ss. In the alphabetical order \u1E9E, \xDF is treated like SS, ss.
    Since a typographical implementation of the upper case letter \u1E9E in the various
    character fonts will take some time, it may be temporarily substituted by SS,
    ss.\r\nNEW: Due to the new regulation of German spelling the letter \xDF is after
    a short (stressed) vowel now replaced by ss. The letter \xDF remains after a long
    vowel or a diphthong.</cite></blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote><cite>Examples for
    names of geographical regions:\r\n\u2014 now: Hassberge (short and stressed vowel
    a), until now: Ha\xDFberge\r\n\u2014 will continue: Mei\xDFner (diphthong preceding
    \xDF), MEI\u1E9ENER\r\n\u2014 will continue: Gro\xDFer Feldberg (long vowel o
    preceding \xDF), GRO\u1E9EER FELDBERG</cite></blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote><cite>Example
    for an officially approved name of a municipality\r\n\u2014 will continue: Ha\xDFfurt,
    HA\u1E9EFURT (though a short and stressed vowel a is preceding \xDF)</cite></blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis
    is, to my knowledge, the first official <strong>German government body</strong>
    that not only approves but actually <strong>prescribes</strong> the use of uppercase
    \xDF (U+1E9E, \u1E9E), and only accepts the use of SS \u201Ctemporarily\u201D
    (\u201Csince a typographical implementation of the upper case letter \u1E9E in
    the various character fonts will take some time\u201D). \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 16:07:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Unfortunately, we pioneers of the inevitable are creating fonts with OpenType
    encoding that will become obsolete once the change is made official.\r\n\r\nPresently,
    our coding in 'smcp' and 'c2sc' maps \xDF to a glyph that looks like two small
    cap s's.\r\n\r\nPerhaps in future smart layout applications could, when 'germandbls.smcp'
    is called for, search for 'uni1E9E.smcp', and, if it exists in a font, use it
    instead.\r\n\r\nOr is that what the \"world-ready paragraph composer\" is already
    doing?\r\n\r\nAdam, what is the OpenType coding in that Trump sample that you
    showed above?"
  created: '2011-06-09 16:24:18'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nas I've pointed out in my post, it's: \r\n\r\n<code>feature
    smcp {\r\n...\r\nsub germandbls by germandbls.smcp;\r\n...\r\n} smcp; </code>\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2011-06-09 16:26:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, not paying attention.\r\n\r\nYour explanation of what happens is more
    complex than the single character substitution I suggested.\r\nWhat would happen
    if you changed the name of your small cap eszett to something quite different
    than uni1E9E.smcp?"
  created: '2011-06-09 16:36:18'
date: '2011-06-05 16:57:36'
title: Small-cap Eszett impossible to input in InDesign?

---
