---
author:
  name: twardoch
  picture: 110427
body: "We are pleased to announce that Fontlab Ltd. will release an <em>Intel-native</em>
  <strong>FontLab Studio 5.1</strong> for Mac OS X in <strong>July 2011</strong>.
  Currently, the application is undergoing internal testing, and beta versions will
  be issued to selected testers within the next week. \r\n\r\nFontLab Studio 5.1 will
  be mainly a bugfix release and will be available <strong>free of charge</strong>
  to all users of FontLab Studio 5. It will not introduce new features but because
  it's <strong>Intel-native</strong>, users on Intel Macs will experience a significant
  increase in speed (up to 2.5x faster) and stability. Users who upgrade to Mac OS
  X 10.7 Lion will secure an uninterrupted workflow. \r\n\r\nFollowing the release
  of FontLab Studio 5.1, Fontlab Ltd. will publish <strong>TypeTool 3.1</strong> for
  Mac OS X, a free update for all users of the popular TypeTool 3 font editor. This
  update will also make the application Intel-native. \r\n\r\nLater this year, Fontlab
  Ltd. will introduce <strong>FontLab Studio 6</strong> (for both Mac OS X and Windows)
  which will include a number of further improvements and several interesting new
  features.\r\n\r\nBelow is a small screenshot showing a development build of FontLab
  Studio 5.1 running as a Intel-native Mac application: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fls51scr_6008.png]\r\n\r\nStay
  tuned for more news from Fontlab Ltd.!\r\n\r\nBest regards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
  Ltd.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: '!'
  created: '2011-06-08 22:34:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Whoopee!\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-09 03:30:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes!
  created: '2011-06-09 03:48:33'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: and there was much rejoicing!
  created: '2011-06-09 09:04:09'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: .
  created: '2011-06-09 09:05:03'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: 'My FL 5 happens to freeze rather often under MacOS 10.6. So this sounds fairly
    promising. '
  created: '2011-06-09 21:01:49'
- author:
    name: behnam
  body: Mine is jumpy when scrolling the font window. This is a very good reason to
    upgrade to Lion (or not)!
  created: '2011-06-09 23:36:28'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: "Thank goodness I saw this, I was about to update my computer to OSX Lion
    (dev golden master copy), and remembered that Fontlab Studio was PowerPC based...\r\n\r\nAny
    word on when in July we can expect the update? Fontlab is the only PowerPC app
    that is holding me back from upgrading, grrrrr."
  created: '2011-07-03 02:24:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I still miss the 68040.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 03:42:11'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "FontLab Studio 5.1 for Mac OS X beta running on Lion: \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontlabstudio51-lion_4716.jpg]\r\n\r\nRegister
    to participate in the beta program: \r\nhttp://bit.ly/fontlabbetaaplication\r\n\r\nThe
    beta program is starting this week! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-06 20:32:24'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>The beta program is starting this week!</cite>\r\n\r\nI never thought
    you'd make me hot, Adam ;)"
  created: '2011-07-06 20:38:41'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: We have just published a <a href="http://www.fontlab.com/front-page/welcome/mac-os-x-10-7-lion-compatibility.html"><strong>note
    about compatibility of FontLab products with Mac OS X 10.7 Lion</strong></a>.
    Go check it out if you're planning to upgrade your Mac OS X to Lion anytime soon.
  created: '2011-07-09 05:53:43'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: so how buggy is the 5.1 beta so far? Is the official 5.1 version still in
    line for release in the next week or so, before July ends? Thanks!
  created: '2011-07-24 05:04:28'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: OK, so this is the last day of july. Will FontLab hold its promise?
  created: '2011-07-31 20:41:21'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: '*bump*'
  created: '2011-08-01 09:27:43'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: August 1st  :(
  created: '2011-08-01 10:44:04'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: "Can't wait, especially as I have a new contract with a font distributor and
    need to tweak several fonts, etc., etc. I could do this in the new Fontographer
    but would prefer FontLab.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-02 01:00:20'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Can't wait\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nSo just don't update to 10.7. It's just
    another mediocre Apple cash grab, not the second coming of Christ."
  created: '2011-08-02 01:19:42'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: I did the update before I read the FontLab page. How very inconvenient! Someone
    here doesn't like Apple, wonder who that might be.
  created: '2011-08-02 13:46:17'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Trust me, if I could run all my development tools on 10.4 I would. That was
    the last decent OS to come out of Cupertino.
  created: '2011-08-02 18:18:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Cost: $29 for .5 upgrade from Apple; $399 for a .5 upgrade from Adobe; The
    love of your children--Priceless.'
  created: '2011-08-02 22:35:08'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: I guess this is how it goes with software though, you gotta kinda expect it
    to get pushed back..... hopefully an end of August release isn't too much to ask.
  created: '2011-08-03 09:56:37'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Software is an unwieldy beast and always throws up unexpected hurdles. Despite
    understanding this, I've been hitting refresh in this thread and and Fontlab site
    for the last two day in anticipation. \r\n\r\n:-("
  created: '2011-08-03 11:43:16'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Unfortunately, we're still in beta phase. As soon as FontLab Studio 5.1 is
    good enough for general consumption, we'll be releasing it for general public.
    The overall opinion of the first beta build is good, we'll be having a second
    build soon. I realize how inconvenient this all is, and we'll keep you posted.
    \r\n\r\n(Sorry for the days of silence, I was on vacation for the last week, but
    the work's been going on.)"
  created: '2011-08-03 16:16:33'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: So, if a second build is still going to be built and tested, I guess it would
    be safe to say that the public release will still be weeks or months away.
  created: '2011-08-03 16:27:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Weeks: yes. Months: no. Some time in August is realistic. Otherwise, I'll
    be seriously annoyed. \r\n\r\nThe second beta build will be available next week.
    Anyone interested in obtaining it can register at http://bit.ly/fontlabbetaaplication
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-03 17:34:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Initially, we had hoped that Apple's announcement of Lion \"available in
    Summer\" would mean late August. So far, no Mac OS X version was released in July
    and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X#Versions shows that \"Summer\" in the
    past was indeed late August. But as you know, even weeks before release, Apple
    only said \"in July\". No precise release date announced. I hope you'll understand
    that we could not predict that date either, and if even Apple doesn't fix their
    release dates, same can apply to independent developers such as Fontlab Ltd. \r\n\r\nBut
    please be assured that we're seriously committed to releasing FontLab Studio 5.1
    as soon as possible. Given the conditions, I can say that it's likely that we'll
    post a beta build publicly as soon as it's stable enough for people to run. \r\n\r\nEven
    now with the current beta 1 (build 4204), the most testers are generally happy
    with the application, and they say it's more stable than 5.0.4. However, there
    are still a few open issues where the actual functionally doesn't work at all
    as intended. Those are being actively worked on, so it's very likely that next
    week or the week after, all the users who need a workable version of FontLab Studio
    running on Lion will have one. It will be initially branded \"beta\" because some
    (rarely used) aspects may not work as they should, but the vast majority of the
    functionality will be working as good as in 5.0.4 or actually better. \r\n\r\nSo
    \u2014 it's true that we missed our intended deadline of July with the public
    release, but at least there is a build right now which is \"mostly workable\"
    and my expectations are that next week we'll have a version that is workable.
    Further builds will follow, and after the initial 5.1.0 release I'm sure there
    will be several bugfix releases. So in a way, one could say that FontLab Studio
    5.1 has sort of arrived in July 2011, but not quite yet. :/\r\n\r\nThe ultimate
    goal is that in a few months, we'll have a \"final final\" FontLab Studio 5.x
    for Mac OS X which will not only be \"Lion compatible\" but will actually be significantly
    better than the current 5.0.4 version. It'll be a free update to all FontLab Studio
    5 users, and, apart from lots of bugfixes, it'll have several noteworthy feature
    improvements: \r\n\r\n* First of all, the application is, in general, much faster.
    Action Sets run approx. 2.5 times faster in 5.1 than in 5.0.4, running on Mac
    OS 10.6.8. \r\n\r\n* FontLab Studio 5.1 has no longer the 6,400 glyph limit. It
    allows you to open, save and generate fonts with up to 65,535 glyphs.\r\n\r\n*
    Adobe FDK for OpenType version 2.5 is integrated in 5.1 (as opposed to 1.6 in
    5.0.4). This means that you can use mark attachment or \"sub fi by f i\" type
    of statements, as well as \"script DFLT\" etc. Due to this change, you need to
    add the \"languagesystem\" statements in the lower-right portion of the OpenType
    panel, as in: \r\n<code>languagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem
    latn TRK;\r\nlanguagesystem cyrl dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem cyrl SRB;</code>\r\n\r\n*
    \"Clean up paths\" algorithm from Fontographer is integrated. In beta 1 (build
    4204) it's only available through the Action / Action Set dialogs (in the Contour
    group of the dialogs as \"CleanUp\"). This algorithm is not MM-compatible, unlike
    \"Optimize\". For single-master fonts, however, it will deliver different, sometimes
    better, results, from \"Optimize\". We plan to add it directly into the Contour
    menu in a later build.\r\n\r\n* In the TrueType Hinting / TrueType Preview panel,
    the little chequer icon lets you switch between additional rasterizers. The list
    of those rasterizers is subject to change, but one highlight is the addition of
    the native Microsoft rasterizers. The MS B&W rasterizer is the same as used in
    the black-and-white Windows rendering mode. The MS Grayscale rasterizer is the
    same as used in the grayscale rendering mode. Note that those rasterization modes
    are not yet sensitive to the \"gasp\" table settings in Font Info, though this
    may change. The rasterizers (especially the MS ones) run much faster so any changes
    to the manual TrueType hinting are instantly visible.\r\n\r\nRegarding Python
    integration, there are some improvements but also caveats: \r\n\r\n* Build 4204
    integrates with Python 2.5 (on Mac OS X 10.5, 10.6, 10.7). FLS 5.0.4 integrated
    with Python 2.3. Therefore, some of your macros may not work if they relied on
    Python packages installed into /Library/Python/2.3/site-packages. Please re-install
    them into /Library/Python/2.3/site-packages. However, this is likely to change.
    Future builds of FLS 5.1 will probably link to the \"Current\" Python framework
    on each OS, which is 2.5 on OS X 10.5, 2.6 on 10.6, 2.7 on 10.7.\r\n\r\n* Python
    packages that rely on extensions written in C (such as RMX tools version 1.6 or
    the macros that ship with standalone AFDKO 2.5) will or may not currently work
    because they were built for an older Python version, and possibly were compiled
    only for PPC, while FLS 5.1 is 32-bit Intel (i386 architecture). This will need
    to be addressed by authors of the packages. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-03 17:54:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks for that informative post, Adam!
  created: '2011-08-03 18:47:42'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: "I could be wrong, but, RMX tools website says that the newest release should
    work with 5.1, is this incorrect Adam?\r\n\r\nhttp://remix-tools.com/updater\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-03 21:33:59'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Your list of \"noteworthy feature improvements\" for the final release of
    FL 5.x has me doing a little happy dance.\r\n\r\nOne question though: For those
    of us with pronounced Leophobia, will Leopard still be supported?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2011-08-04 01:10:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Wolfattack: Evidently Tim has updated RMX to work with 5.1 -- that's exactly
    what I meant. Some 3rd party macro developers will need to do that. \r\n\r\nAndre:
    FontLab Studio 5.1 will work on Mac OS X 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7, and probably also
    on 10.4. "
  created: '2011-08-04 10:08:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Congratulations on getting this new FL in the works and thanks to all for
    their hard work. I look forward to a whole lot of very happy people when the long
    hard transition is complete, and we can all look back and laugh, even if just
    a microscopic chuckle.
  created: '2011-08-04 18:00:22'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: 'Looking forward to the release of 5.1. I am especially pleased that the program
    will be backward compatible with earlier versions of Mac OS 10.5, 10.6, and 10.7. '
  created: '2011-08-05 23:49:37'
- author:
    name: Aaron Moodie
    picture: 118179
  body: "Hi Adam, \r\nhow are things going? Still thinking you'll be able to release
    in August?"
  created: '2011-08-17 05:21:07'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: So where is the second Beta as promised last week?
  created: '2011-08-17 10:02:44'
- author:
    name: Hannes Famira
    picture: 110283
  body: 'Adam, sorry but I have to make sure I am getting this right: Are you saying
    that I will be able to preview my ClearType hinting on the Mac?'
  created: '2011-08-17 10:17:29'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: The middle of August is here, neither FontLab Studio or Type Tool 3 are ready
    for the new Mac OS. Still waiting. And the new Mac OS compatible Fontographer
    does crash when opening vfb files, not always, but often enough to be annoying.
    Please help us out here.
  created: '2011-08-17 13:07:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Guys, all this pressure might become counter-productive.\r\nIf you don't
    want to end up complaining that there are\r\n[too many] bugs, let them be properly
    squashed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 14:06:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Using FOG until...
  created: '2011-08-17 18:21:04'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Our plan is the following: we're working towards a new beta build which will
    be free of critical bugs. We'll publish this beta build publicly, i.e. all existing
    FontLab Studio 5 users will be able to use it without joining the beta program.
    It'll still be branded \"beta\" as it still will have some functionality issues
    (hopefully only issues that will affect a small group of specialized users). \r\n\r\nSo
    -- there will be a publicly available version very soon. We'll continue working
    on it until it reaches \"release quality\". After that, we'll also continue working
    on post-release fixes. \r\n\r\nIt has to be a \"flexible process\". I hope you
    can bear with us. We're doing everything we can! \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 19:32:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Also: FOG users who experience crashes when opening VFB files, please report
    them along with the VFB files at http://www.fontlab.com/support/problem/ '
  created: '2011-08-17 19:35:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Off topic: Adam, do you have an e-mail address? I couldn\u2019t find one
    at your website."
  created: '2011-08-17 19:40:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hannes, \r\n\r\nthe ClearType preview won't work in FontLab Studio 5.1 quite
    yet, but it's definitely coming in a later version. Microsoft have kindly granted
    us a license for their ClearType rasterizer for inclusion in our applications,
    but integrating it takes some time. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-17 19:55:54'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Adam, any news? Crop of new machines arriving at our office this week will
    have 10.7 pre-installed\u2026"
  created: '2011-08-20 18:15:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Adam > I hope you can bear with us. We're doing everything we can! \r\n\r\nWe're
    all Bearing as well as we can. But soon Robofont will end up with the Lion's share
    of my segment. "
  created: '2011-08-20 21:42:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Crop of new machines arriving at our office this week will have 10.7
    pre-installed\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYou could always run 10.6 in a virtual machine
    until there is a dependable version of 5.1. It seems absurd, but it should work.\r\n\r\n<cite>But
    soon Robofont will end up with the Lion's share of my segment.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    beta/release process has convinced me that I need to be in the same boat in the
    very near future."
  created: '2011-08-20 22:36:40'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>Crop of new machines arriving at our office this week will have 10.7
    pre-installed\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI like your [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cargo_cult|cargo-cult
    solution]], JH."
  created: '2011-08-21 18:39:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">This beta/release process has convinced me that I need to be in the same
    boat in the very near future.\r\n\r\nFortunately, Robofont is the anti-Titanic
    solution, so there's plenty of room on the lifeboats to hop aboard! ;)"
  created: '2011-08-21 21:56:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Is Robofont a shipping product that currently runs on Lion?
  created: '2011-08-22 02:19:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: I prefer to think of Robofont as the zippy new cruiser that will pull us from
    the lifeboats of a ship that already sank.
  created: '2011-08-22 20:30:04'
- author:
    name: David Somers
    picture: 112015
  body: "<em>You could always run 10.6 in a virtual machine until there is a dependable
    version of 5.1. It seems absurd, but it should work.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    you can get 10.6 to run in a virtual machine... from what I can remember, there's
    specific code to prohibit the client version installing/running there... 10.6
    Server will, however, run in a virtual machine (but that is just overkill!). Probably
    easier just to install Lion then make a separate partition for 10.6 to run those
    apps that really need it (e.g. FontLab 5.0 and Adobe CS)."
  created: '2011-08-22 22:12:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Virtual Box claims that it can run OS X in a VM as long as you run it on Apple
    hardware. Doing so might violate Apple's nutty EULA.
  created: '2011-08-22 23:05:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">I prefer to think of Robofont as the zippy new cruiser that will pull us
    from the lifeboats of a ship that already sank.\r\n\r\nThat's a perfect recipe
    for how to miss the boat ;)\r\n\r\n>Is Robofont a shipping product that currently
    runs on Lion?\r\n\r\nIt runs on Lion like a champ, and it hardly matters when
    it ships as long as it does. Its author will be speaking at ATypI if you're looking
    for release-time clues. \r\n\r\nI have moved to Robofont full time for the integration
    it brings to my work as a designer, producer and hinter of full functionality
    fonts for print and web, if that's another clue. "
  created: '2011-08-23 13:09:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">I have moved to Robofont full time for the integration it brings to my work
    as a designer, producer and hinter of full functionality fonts for print and web,
    if that's another clue.\r\n\r\nThanks, David!\r\n\r\nPS:  How was \"The Pres\"?"
  created: '2011-08-23 14:53:57'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: "Please give me a link to the software program, if that is what it is, to
    Robofont?\r\nThanks\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-23 15:09:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[[http://www.atypi.org/2011-reykjavik/programme/activity?a=60|Here is the
    link]] to the description of the talk upcoming at ATyPI. I got a sneak peak from
    Petr van Blokland at TypeCon, and it looked very impressive.  '
  created: '2011-08-23 15:23:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "re. Robofont: <em>Entirely written in Python...</em>\r\n\r\nDoes that mean
    that it will run under Windows too?"
  created: '2011-08-23 18:57:35'
- author:
    name: wolfattack
  body: "i'm so impatient.......\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-27 02:48:16'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: OK it is the last day of August. Where are you FontLab Studio? for MAC Lion?
    Please.
  created: '2011-08-31 13:50:11'
- author:
    name: jordydavies
    picture: 120813
  body: I am not going to say I am losing patience, but I think I would have preferred
    a reasonable time line instead of first, July, then August, then? I am unfortunately
    reminded of the problems of Quark with the many updates, etc., all of which did
    not work well, and the constant crashing they caused. Let's get real here. Whatever
    you do, don't sell anything to Adobe!
  created: '2011-08-31 23:49:30'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "argh..\r\n\r\n...those fidgets again."
  created: '2011-09-01 16:38:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Jordy, \r\n\r\nfixing bugs, fixing bugs, finding some new ones that are ship-stoppers,
    fixing them, fixing them. \r\n\r\nI'd say a public \"beta-level\" release is just
    days ahead. The final release -- I cannot tell. Be assured, we're working on it
    with full power. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-01 16:52:24'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Ship-stoppers... I read somewhere that Soviet scientists originally referred
    to software bugs as skerries.
  created: '2011-09-01 21:47:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Ship-stopper\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/naval-mine_4979.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhich
    suggests that the FontLab bug fix process is probably <a href=\"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0dulodYuC0\">something
    like this</a>."
  created: '2011-09-01 23:23:09'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "<cite>I have moved to Robofont full time for the integration it brings to
    my work as a designer, producer and hinter of full functionality fonts for print
    and web, if that's another clue.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh. This sounds very promising!
    I am *so* tired of empty promises."
  created: '2011-09-04 20:47:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Promise floats ;)
  created: '2011-09-08 13:59:36'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: Lion-compatible <strong>FontLab Studio 5.1 Public Preview for Mac OS X</strong>
    is now available at <strong><a href="http://bit.ly/fls51pp1mac">http://bit.ly/fls51pp1mac</a></strong>
  created: '2011-09-12 16:39:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Got t!  Works ok so far!
  created: '2011-09-12 18:55:34'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "I now get an error message when I generate OTF fonts I'm working on (wether
    from Ben Kiel's script or regular menu).\r\nThe fonts have no features. Am I supposed
    to add something for the AFDKO to work or is it something else?\r\nThe message
    I get: \r\nERROR: There was a problem while compiling OpenType font. Final .otf
    font is not saved. Please, check OpenType features definition for errors\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-13 10:24:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "x-y, \r\n\r\nplease visit http://www.fontlab.com/support/problem/ and report
    the problem along with your VFB. \r\nPlease enter \"5.1PP1\" as version number
    and \"4269\" as build number. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-13 13:12:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "New version of <strong>FontLab Studio 5.1 Public Preview 2 for Mac OS X</strong>
    is now available at: http://bit.ly/fls51pp\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2011-09-29 07:58:11'
date: '2011-06-08 21:27:47'
title: Intel-native FontLab Studio 5.1 for Mac to arrive in July 2011

---
