---
author:
  name: 1996type
  picture: 114827
body: "Hey everybody,\r\n\r\nI'm working on a sans-serif with optical grades and I
  found that instances generated with mathematically evenly distributed values don't
  appear to be distributed evenly. I expected that something like that was going to
  happen, but I just wanted to see for myself. I've never used (or even studied/understood)
  Lucas de Groot's interpolation theory, but I understand the basic concept. Is there
  any way of using his theory with optical grades instead of weights?\r\n\r\nI'm OK
  with maths, but I'm no pro, so please explain as plainly as you can :-)\r\n\r\nThanks
  in advance,\r\n\r\nJasper de Waard"
comments:
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: From a mathematical standpoint, De Groot's "theory" simply says that instead
    of distributing evenly the values, you distribute evenly their log i.e. the values
    are to be evenly distributed when plotted on a log scale.
  created: '2011-06-16 14:24:31'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Yes, something like a quadratical graph I figured, right? But doesn't it say
    anything about how quadratical it should be?
  created: '2011-06-16 15:09:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "De Groot works quite nicely, I think (but fails when the thin weight is very
    thin*).\r\n\r\nSuppose one grade has a horizontal thickness of 20 units and the
    other grade has a horizontal thickness of 40 units, then your interpolation must
    have thickness \u221A(20 x 40) = 28.284... (significantly less than 30 which is
    the mean).\r\n\r\nThat means if you are interpolating between 0 and 1000 your
    instance is at (28.284 - 20)/(40 - 20) = 414\r\n\r\nThis will start to get more
    complicated if you have an even number of grades (e.g. 4) and just thinking about
    how to calculate that makes my head hurt.\r\n\r\nMost will tell you to trust your
    eye, the final arbiter on the matter.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n* Suppose your stem at the
    thin extreme is 1 unit thin (unlikely and not very practical I admit) and that
    your thick end is 100 units thick. De Groot will say that the optical halfway
    is \u221A(1 x 100) = 10 which is still very thin so we may be looking for new
    maths in this instance.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-16 15:19:18'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "De Groot's formula is not quadratic and there seems to be no choice. Here
    is some Python code that returns the list of the n values to put  in between the
    endpoints a and b; the list also returns the endpoints;\r\n<code>\r\nfrom&nbsp;math&nbsp;import&nbsp;*\r\ndef&nbsp;inter(a,b,n):\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;d=(log(b)&nbsp;-&nbsp;log(a))/(n+1)\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;l=&#91;&#93;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;for&nbsp;i&nbsp;in&nbsp;range(n+2):\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;l=l+&#91;exp(log(a)+i*d)&#93;\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;return&nbsp;l\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nand
    here is some trace:\r\n<code>\r\n&gt;&gt;&gt;&nbsp;inter(2,6,1)\r\n&#91;2.0,&nbsp;3.4641016151377539,&nbsp;6.0&#93;\r\n&gt;&gt;&gt;&nbsp;inter(2,6,2)\r\n&#91;2.0,&nbsp;2.8844991406148166,&nbsp;4.1601676461038073,&nbsp;6.0&#93;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\ni.e.
    to interpolate one value between 2 and 6 you need to choose 3.46, and if you want
    two values, they are 2.88 and 4.16. \r\n\r\nFor opticals of small point sizes,
    Knuth seems to be using a completely different formula (with, this time, some
    parameters to choose).\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-16 15:42:06'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "The precision of a formula provides an unearned sense of reassurance. If
    your eyes tell you it's wrong \u2014 it's wrong.\r\n\r\nAs I understand it, De
    Groot's \"theory\" just describes the general idea that our eyes can distinguish
    lighter color values better than darker values. Interesting to those who haven't
    figured it out on their own; obvious to those who have.\r\n\r\nAs applied to optical
    grades, I'd expect that you'd need to make bigger adjustments between the smaller-size
    grades than the larger-size grades. But unlike weight changes, optical grades
    often also incorporate changes in width and x-height."
  created: '2011-06-16 17:10:38'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Thanks Nick! That's suddenly much easier, but I still don't know how to implement
    this in optical grades. I guess it's just a matter of testing, which I'm doing
    right now.\r\n\r\nMichel, I appreciate the effort, but Python is not for me. At
    least when there's a way around it, which there is. Thanks anyway :-)"
  created: '2011-06-16 17:12:38'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Butterick, Your'e not the first to tell me and I agree with you. De Groot's
    method is just a guideline. Just something to keep in the back of your mind and
    consider as an option. If it doesn't work, forget about it, but I believe it might
    just work.\r\n\r\nThe matter of optical grades is in this case, slightly more
    complicated. They're not actually \"optical grades\". They are build on the same
    principle, but the contrast between the to extremes is too extreme to be considered
    optical grades. They are no there to make things look the same at every size.
    They are there to make things look different, yet the same, disregarding the size.
    Off coarse every grade has a minimum point size (high-contrast at 10 pnts simply
    looks bad), but ALL grades work fine at display size.\r\n\r\nI'll upload some
    pdf samples in an hour."
  created: '2011-06-16 17:21:47'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: What I was trying to say, is, normally optical grades are made to work at
    a specific size. Mine are made to make the transitions from low to high contrast
    evenly spread out.
  created: '2011-06-16 17:23:42'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "I uploaded an example where I used linear interpolation, and it actually
    looks fine to me. What do you think? The objective is to make the transition look
    evenly distributed. I plan to make 9 (9!) grades eventually, so between every
    two instances in the example will be another instance. May seem like too much,
    but then again, the difference between the two extremes is larger than anything
    I know off.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\nJasper de Waard"
  created: '2011-06-16 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: If you follow a geometric progression, the ratio of change is the same as
    you interpolate.  Since the eye is more capable at distinctions at the lighter
    weights, you might consider either a regular unit addition (or subtraction moving
    towards the light) to the geometric value to create a progression that ascends
    in rate of change as you move towards the bold.  This can be a constant unit or
    it can be a ratio of a unit.
  created: '2011-06-16 17:43:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I suggest you abandon any mathematical approach and trust your eyes.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I paraphrase Duke Ellington, \"If it looks good, it is good.\""
  created: '2011-06-16 19:16:41'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: I did, hence the pdf above.
  created: '2011-06-16 20:49:42'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: 'DeGroot''s theory is a starting point for interpolating typefaces that have
    enough weight to be easily differentiated from each other. In one of my projects
    I have not found it entirely relevant to optical sizes, probably because the changes
    are small enough that being a little bit off is very noticeable. Also, serif sizes
    do not always scale linearly along with weight/contrast changes, so you may need
    to adjust how you handle the flared terminals with another axis. Zapf discussed
    this in one of the essays that appeared in <em>Hermann Zapf and his Design Philosophy</em>,
    see page 70. '
  created: '2011-06-17 01:24:16'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: Thanks James. I'll have a look at that book :-)
  created: '2011-06-17 07:19:55'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "You might want to rethink your terminology. \u201COptical grades\u201D is
    a misnomer. \r\n\r\nThe use of the word \u201Coptical\u201D makes most type designers
    think about size-specific design. And the use of the term \u201Cgrades\u201D makes
    me think about fine weight & contrast compensations for varying press conditions
    (which this approximates, but is not quite the same).\r\n\r\nReally, these are
    just different instances along a contrast style axis. Which is part of why the
    interpolation distribution doesn\u2019t really \u201Cneed\u201D any special adjustment."
  created: '2011-06-17 12:24:17'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: I have translated the formula above in Javascript and put it in [[http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/interpolation.html|this
    form]] together with linear and quadratic interpolation. If you try, you see that
    when the range of values is small, there is no big difference in the results.
    It is of course the eye that decides in the end. The formulas can serve for first
    guesses, or to implement graphical interfaces.
  created: '2011-06-17 16:50:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kent, there is also \"Optical\" kerning.\r\n\r\nI suspect that Optical may
    just be a legitimate typographic epithet; however, in this usage it is redundant.\r\nA
    grade (as coined by Tobias Frere-Jones, if I'm not mistaken) is a grade, and is
    inherently Optical.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, I reserve the right to promote my next
    typeface with its beautiful Optical Ligatures :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-17 17:23:08'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'Thanks. I like it when it''s simple. '
  created: '2011-06-17 17:56:37'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Wow, Michel! That's cool. Simple and practical :-D\r\n\r\nAny ideas for a
    different term for 'optical grades'? Without the 'optical', and without the 'grades',
    and perhaps with something contrast related ;-)\r\n\r\nI plan to simply devide
    the typefamily in Sensato A, Sensato B, C, etc. Does that make sense to you?"
  created: '2011-06-17 17:57:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michel, very nice! Thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-17 23:17:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks for making that!
  created: '2011-06-17 23:54:09'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: Welcome! The advantage with Javascript is that the form is self contained.
    You can save it on your PC or iPad and it should work without any internet connection.
  created: '2011-06-18 02:26:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Michel, I've bookmarked that.
  created: '2011-06-18 04:44:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Michel,  Thanks!
  created: '2011-06-18 05:52:41'
- author:
    name: butterick
    picture: 117709
  body: "<cite>De Groot's method is just a guideline. Just something to keep in the
    back of your mind and consider as an option.</cite>\r\n\r\nHere's a concrete example
    of where De Groot's method will give you the wrong design answer. \r\n\r\nSuppose
    you have a text face in a regular weight and a bold. You want to create a semibold.
    Some designers would just interpolate 50% and be done with it. Other designers
    would say \"aha, I'll use De Groot's method\" and calculate an interpolation less
    than 50%. \r\n\r\nI propose that both these answers are incorrect. In actual use,
    both a semibold and a bold are meant to contrast with the regular. A bold is more
    useful if you need to emphasize an occasional word or phrase; a semibold is more
    useful if you'll have to emphasize whole sentences. \r\n\r\nBut the semibold &
    bold don't need to contrast with each other. For instance, would you have semibold
    running text with bold for emphasis? No, never.\r\n\r\nSo the ideal interpolation
    for a semibold is something <em>more</em> than 50% \u2014 that way, you can ensure
    that both semibold and bold are distinct from the regular weight. A semibold that's
    closer to the regular than the bold \u2014\_which is what you'll get with the
    De Groot method \u2014\_is not useful.\r\n\r\nWhich is a long way of saying (again)
    that the De Groot method \u2014 or any algorithmic method \u2014 can be useful
    as a guideline. But it's not a substitute for conscious thought about how people
    will be using your fonts (a process also known as \"design\")"
  created: '2011-07-20 01:48:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> In actual use, both a semibold and a bold are meant to contrast with the
    regular.\r\n\r\nI wish (because that could maybe just mean Italic is being avoided
    in\r\nfavor of Demi*). In actual use, the Demi is usually made to contrast\r\nwith
    the Light.\r\n\r\n* Something Typo magazine did (does?) to great effect.\r\n\r\n>
    would you have semibold running text with bold for emphasis?\r\n\r\nMaybe. If
    the Demi isn't too dark (like I make them) and you're\r\nsetting smallish text,
    sure (assuming the Bold is dark enough).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-20 04:07:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I have never used a Semibold as the \"bold\" of Regular.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThe
    difficulty I have had, in making multi-weight faces, is in putting the right amount
    of contrast between Regular and Bold\u2014which is the primary weight relationship
    in a typeface, and something that should not play second fiddle to a general plan
    of weight distribution.\r\n\r\nThe fact is, the \"Regular\" weights of different
    typefaces may be quite different in weight from one another. Settling on the Regular
    weight for a typeface is an important aspect of its design, related to its overall
    horizontal scaling and the openness of its fit."
  created: '2011-07-20 18:46:50'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I adher to the \u2018rule\u2019 that the Semibold is to the Light (or Book)
    like the Bold to the Regular\u2026 Isn\u2019t that why large type families used
    to be split up in fours (R+B+I+BI, L+SB+LI+SBI)?\r\n\r\nBTW The buttons here look
    very dainty, now that I am using Lion\u2026 : )"
  created: '2011-07-20 21:14:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "James Montalbano has written here on Typophile, if I remember rightly, that
    he uses the same rule as Bert. In addition he has related the semibold to the
    regular so that it would work like the regular when reversed (white on black).\r\n\r\nFrutiger
    has written, as Nick, that getting the regular right for the design is of key
    importance. \r\n\r\nI think another important factor is that how to handle weights
    may be different for sans and serifs. I'd be interested in others' experience
    and thoughts on this. "
  created: '2011-07-21 01:28:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks William...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-21 01:56:01'
- author:
    name: Alkisurfin
  body: "Addressing the comment of Nick Job on June 16th and his comment \"...we may
    be \r\nlooking for new maths\"...  In his example he uses an extreme example of
    \r\nstarting a a value of 1 then ending at a value of 100, the geometric mean
    of \r\nthis would be then the (square root of 1 * 100) which is hard to write
    on a computer\r\nso I'll make it easy and say it is (1*100)^(1/2)  which ends
    up being 10.\r\nNow take the arithmetic mean of these two numbers which is (1+100)/2
    = 50.5.\r\nSo, if I get this right, the method used by de Groot would result in
    10,\r\nthe incorrect result (as most would agree) would be the arithmetic mean
    of 50.5 \r\nso why not just take the geometric mean of the arithmetic mean and
    geometric\r\nmean combined??\r\n((1*100)^(1/2))=10\r\n((1+100)/2) = 50.5\r\n((10*50.5)^(1/2))
    = 22.472\r\n\r\nIs 22.242 a more acceptable result, rather than 10 or 50.5??\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone wants to use this math please name it after me, just call it the \"Raybon
    Method of Interpolation\"  =)"
  created: '2011-11-05 20:40:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>James Montalbano has written here on Typophile, if I remember rightly,
    that he uses the same rule as Bert. In addition he has related the semibold to
    the regular so that it would work like the regular when reversed (white on black).</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't remember every using the term SemiBold."
  created: '2011-11-06 20:17:51'
- author:
    name: Alkisurfin
  body: "Disregard my prior post, I didn't have the information when I wrote it, this\r\nshould
    make a more sense:\r\n\r\n\r\nInterpolation Theory.\r\n\r\nThis has a reasoning
    in human perception vs the answer if a true engineering\r\nresult were given.
    \ In choosing an intermediate weight of a typeface, according \r\nto de Groot
    it is not the mean (arithmetic mean) between the two weights but is \r\ninstead
    a value slightly less than half way.  Numerically, this can shown that \r\nif
    a typeface has a value of 40 and the next typeface has a value of 70, an \r\nintermediate
    type face, half way between the two, would have a value of 55\r\n if a strict
    engineering result would be used \u2013 this would be in error.  Human\r\nperception
    does not follow the laws of math and the science of engineering,\r\nperception
    is altered slightly.  The true intermediate typeface would therefore,\r\nbe slightly
    less than 55, say maybe 50 in value.  The calculated value of the \r\ntypeface
    then lies along a log curve between the starting and ending values,\r\nwith \u201CExtra
    Light\u201D and \u201CBlack\u201D being closer to the arithmetic mean than \u201CNormal\u201D\r\nwhich
    inflects the most from the arithmetic mean.  The calculated typeface value \r\nthen
    lies along this curve (a log curve vs a straight line) with leeway being \r\ngiven
    to the thickness of a front.  Also of note, the vertical axis and horizontal \r\naxis
    of a font comes into play.  A horizontal axis is more confined to expansion \r\nthan
    is the vertical axis which can expand a lot more.  In the end  though, it\r\nis
    the type designer who\u2019s good judgment should determine the look of the font.\r\n\r\nWhere
    else do we see this \u201Coptical phenomena\u201D?  We see it in the columns of
    the \r\nParthenon in Greece.  The columns are not dead straight (as an engineer
    would make \r\nthem) but are slightly thicker in the center.  The reason is, that
    at a distance human \r\nperception would view a straight column slightly thinner
    in the center but a column\r\nwith a slightly fatter center is viewed as straight.
    \ This is the difference between the human arrived result and the mathematically
    engineered arrived at result.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.math.nus.edu.sg/aslaksen/projects/perspective/parthenon.htm\r\n\r\nGoing
    back  to Lu(cas) de Groot.\r\n\r\nHis \u201CInterpolation Theory\u201D explanation
    is best explained here:\r\n\r\nhttp://typoholic.ru/type/interpolation.html\r\n\r\nInterpolation
    Theory Calculation Example:\r\n\r\n\t\t\tEnd(s) Value \tArith. Mean\tGeo, Mean\tDifference\r\n\r\nExtra
    Light \t\t40\t\t40\t\t40\t\t  0\r\nLight\t\t\t\t\t45\t\t43.620\t\t  1.38\r\nSemi
    Light\t\t\t\t50\t\t47.568\t\t  2.432\t\r\nNormal \t\t\t\t        55\t\t51.873
    \           3.127\r\nNormal/Semi Bold\t\t\t60\t\t56.56\t\t  3.44\r\nSemi Bold\t\t\t\t65\t\t61.688\t
    \         3.312\r\nBold\t\t\t\t\t70\t\t67.771\t\t  2.729\r\nExtra Bold\t\t\t\t75\t\t73.360\t\t
    \ 1.64\r\nBlack\t\t\t80\t\t80\t\t80\t\t  0\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, what does this all mean??\r\nIt
    means that according to Lu(cas) de Groot when designing a font, that all fonts
    weights should stray away from the arithmetic mean the closer you get to \u201CNormal/Semi
    Bold\u201D when you choose \u201CExtra Light\u201D and \u201CBlack\u201D as starting
    points, this is the inverse of the optical illusion seen in the Parthenon columns!!!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-07 01:29:15'
- author:
    name: Alkisurfin
  body: "Ah heck, my nifty chart got all messed up, the numbers that matter again
    are below.\r\nThe names don't really matter what matters is in my example there
    are nine steps along the curve.\r\nRefer to this graph, I added Normal/Semi Bold
    to get nine steps.\r\nhttp://typoholic.ru/type/interpolation.html\r\n\r\nStarting
    with \"Extra Light\" and going to \"Black\" the difference fall along a curve:\r\n\r\nLight
    = 0 diff.\r\nLight = 1.38 diff.\r\nSemi Light = 2.432 diff.\r\nNormal = 3.127
    diff.\r\nNormal/Semi Bold = 3.44 diff.\r\nSemi Bold = 3.312 diff.\r\nBold = 2.729
    diff.\r\nExtra Bold = 1.64 diff.\r\nBlack = 0 diff.\r\n\r\nSee, the differences
    form a curve!\r\n\r\nI am not actually into typefaces at all, I am looking into
    de Groot for a class\r\nresearch project.  My background is in financial calculations,
    in finance you see these\r\ncurves all the time when building portfolios of securities!
    \r\n"
  created: '2011-11-07 01:47:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ray, I don't get what you are interested in here, but the point of Lucas
    de Groot's method is, [[http://www.lucasfonts.com/about/interpolation-theory/|as
    he has pointed out]], very simple. If you have two weights A and C and want an
    intermediate weight B with the same ratio to both A and C, you get de Groot's
    formulas. \r\n\r\nWhen you do this approach for a series of weights, they look
    nicely balanced in relation to one another in a comparative specimen sheet, as
    each has the same proportional jump in relation to the next. Whether this is ideal
    for use in typography is debatable, as you see.   "
  created: '2011-11-07 02:15:54'
- author:
    name: Alkisurfin
  body: "Why do I even contribute??\r\nIt is human perception vs a machine or engineered
    perception..."
  created: '2011-11-07 05:39:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ray, in a well-drawn typeface, optical adjustment of the kind done for the
    columns in the Parthenon happens with almost every glyph. I think here on Typophile
    you are trying to teach Br'er Rabbit about the briar patch. I understand that
    you want to get something that is optically better, but I don't understand why
    you think your variation is optically better than de Groot's, which is also an
    attempt to get optically good results. And I don't see what it has to do with
    the specific Parthenon optical adjustments in your link.\r\n\r\nAs I said, de
    Groot's method gets you an optically balanced set of weights, but the issue is
    whether they work best in use in setting type. That's where the debate comes in,
    and you don't address those issues. "
  created: '2011-11-07 14:14:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The word \"optical\" seems redundant.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-07 14:59:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, "optical" seems to be used for what works for the eye, as opposed to
    what is a simple geometrical or a linear solution. I agree that it''s not such
    a good word, but I don''t think it''s redundant. If there''s a better one, I''d
    like to learn and use it.  '
  created: '2011-11-07 15:13:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I don't think "mathematical" works because people have found equations to
    describe the curves good to the eye in some cases, like the swelling in the Parthenon
    columns. Still in search of better language...
  created: '2011-11-07 16:39:38'
- author:
    name: Alkisurfin
  body: "Check this out...\r\nGoogle \"geometric mean\" and look for the Wiki entry.\r\nGo
    to the bottom of the explanation and you will see that this type of mean\r\nis
    used in aspect ratios of TVs.  Is that not what is being done to a degree\r\nin
    font making, altering its aspect ratio somewhat?\r\n\r\nMath can be used as a
    guide but in the end it is the type designer who makes\r\nthe final \"visual rightness\"
    call.\r\n\r\n\"Visual Rightness\" is a term industrial designer Walter Dorwin
    Teague used to use."
  created: '2011-11-07 17:52:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, although I would bring that up a notch: math <em>should</em> be used
    as a guide but\r\nin the end it is the type designer who makes the final \"visual
    rightness\" call.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-07 18:43:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\"Visual Rightness\" is a term industrial designer Walter Dorwin Teague
    used to use.</em>\r\n\r\n\u2026for products that had some other function besides
    the visual.\r\n\r\nBut type doesn't, so why does it have to be qualified with
    \"optical\" or \"visual\"?"
  created: '2011-11-07 19:39:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Teague was indeed a product designer and from an era where production techniques
    were far more limiting than today's anything-goes world.  The difficulty comes
    in only when, what some of us might call aesthetics, is a marketing afterthought--it
    is applied along the production line somewhere just before packaging.\r\nType
    design is not product design.  Whatever the aesthetic component is, is an integral
    part of the design for better or for worse.  There is no \"Styling Department\"
    as there was in Detroit automobile companies who added a dash of chrome here or
    there to separate a Ford from a Mercury.\r\nWhatever any one of us may think about
    the particular aesthetic or WDT's \"visual rightness\" concept is opinion based.
    \ We cannot extract that aesthetic from the type the way a car owner could pluck
    off  a 1956 Pontiac hood ornament.  \r\nWe don't first design the type and then
    later spruce it up with shiny bits to add perceived value, snob appeal, or even
    a basic comfort level. Type is visual in its function alone.  It is not an actor
    who goes on to get stage makeup and costuming before playing his role.  If the
    actor cannot play the part well enough, he would have failed the audition.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-11-07 20:43:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well, type does have a function, which is to be read. Whether it can be read
    at all, and if so how easily or comfortably does seem to me somewhat, though not
    totally, separable from aesthetics. '
  created: '2011-11-07 21:30:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The default usage should be without \"optical\" or other epithet such as
    \"aesthetic\", with the term \"mathematical\" applied to theoretical constructs.\r\n\r\nThe
    way type looks, whether glyph shape, letter spacing or weight relationships, is
    its <em>sine qua non</em> and <em>raison d'\xEAtre</em> (that is to say, it has
    no other functionality), so its essential visuality doesn't need to be spelled
    out.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-07 21:31:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Well, type does have a function, which is to be read.</em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course, and that function is 100% visual.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026 aesthetics \u2026</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you suggesting that \"optical\" equates with \"aesthetic\"?"
  created: '2011-11-07 22:35:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Having a function is not the issue.  A car may function just as well no matter
    how ugly we may think it looks.  I am personally repulsed at the sight of today's
    Cadillac but I am sure that it operates quite well never-the-less. A car can function
    just as well within a broad range of appearances.  A typeface depends on its appearance.
    \ If we change the appearance, we either change the identity of the typeface or
    change its usability in certain arenas.\r\nThe big difference, to me, is that
    we cannot extract the appearance of a typeface and have it still be that typeface.
    \ We can perhaps change a few things like color and size or even a few details--enough
    to make Helvetica into Arial.  If we go much further, it will become something
    else and may not function in the same way. I can dress up a Cadillac to look like
    an airplane but it will not fly.\r\nThere is a difference between what something
    looks like and what it may function like--except when what it looks like \"IS\"
    what it functions like. With type, what it looks like is all that is apparent
    to the user. A typeface is not a woodgrain veneer covering some working parts
    beneath it.  It is not visible without whatever cloak it was a designed in.\r\nMy
    point is that most type designers don't compartmentalize the appearance of the
    type they are designing from the construction of that typeface.  They don't first
    make a typeface and then make it \"pretty\".  What it looks like is not even intended
    to be \"pretty\" in the pure aesthetic sense of the word.  Others may respond
    to it as aesthetically pleasing or not if they choose. I may have a gut level
    aesthetic response to both a D9 Caterpillar bulldozer and an 18\" Stillson Wrench
    (both of which I would not call \"pretty\") but that has no bearing on how well
    or badly they function.  Both were made out of the industrial production world
    as tools that are just intended to work no matter what they look like. A Typeface
    cannot escape its appearance and retain the same level of function.  If it does,
    it has become another typeface.\r\nEverything that is visible to humans has some
    kind of aesthetic even if it is not intended by the inventor. Some things, like
    energy, electricity, etc., may not be visible but may function none-the-less.
    \ Humans may assign a symbolic visualization to invisible items but that has no
    bearing on either function or aesthetic.\r\nThe Modernists found great joy in
    portraying what they described as functional as being also inherently beautiful.
    \ Some anti-modernists dispute this vehemently  and heap great praise on what
    they call humanistic looking or others even proclaim decorative as the desired
    look.  Anti-modernists may claim that objects  admired by Modernists look too
    geometric or bland or simple.  \r\nThe very over-the-top \u201CArtistes\u201D
    (as Hrant might call them), go even further and proclaim that  what it looks like
    is really what matters most and how it functions is but a minor footnote.\r\nAt
    the other extreme we have those who see science and its language of mathematics
    as the supreme ingredient in every item humankind produces.  The aesthetic can
    then be measured by how well it fits mathematical logic as we now know it to be.
    \ The difficulty comes in determining if the mathematical aesthetic was born after
    the fact of measuring things done that humans thought were beautiful first.  Or
    if things were later called beautiful because they fit the mathematical description
    well.  Since Humans created the objects, their method of measurement, the mathematics,
    and the criteria, it is tough to  determine chicken or egg.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2011-11-07 23:51:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Are you suggesting that \"optical\" equates with \"aesthetic\"?\r\n\r\nNo,
    as both you and Chris are saying, the aesthetic and functional are inextricably
    intertwined in type. But I think you can still assess a type for how well it reads,
    and on an aesthetic level. Because it's all visual functionality, both reading
    and aesthetics, you can't totally separate it, but I think you can to some extent
    in evaluation. "
  created: '2011-11-08 01:27:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Are you (recent contributors to this thread) treating optical and visual as
    synonyms? I think of optical as having specifically to do with eyes and visual
    as having to do with the entire visual cortex. Hence, one can talk about optical
    degeneration -- glaucoma for instance -- that is independent of the 'back end'
    of the visual system.
  created: '2011-11-08 14:59:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI am steering clear of the word \"Optical\" because it is used in
    \"Optical Sizes or variants\" and would be confusing."
  created: '2011-11-08 16:00:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, I don''t like term "optical sizes" because it doesn''t have to do really
    with the eye, as you say. It has to do with perception of different physical sizes,
    which involves more than the eye. Maybe the Adobe term "optical sizes" came from
    a reference to sizes on the visual acuity chart? To me it isn''t a good term,
    but I don''t have a better one.  '
  created: '2011-11-08 17:24:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I use the phrase 'size-specific designs' for what Adobe call 'optical sizes'.
  created: '2011-11-08 18:07:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: How about "use-graded" variants?  This could then be shortened to UG-t, UG-d,
    UG-c, UG-s, (with the lowercase letters meaning "text" "display" "caption" "subhead")
  created: '2011-11-08 20:14:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '"Size-specific designs" is better as far as meaning, but a bit of a mouthful
    to say.  '
  created: '2011-11-08 20:57:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Some other variations: \r\nSize-sensitive variants \r\nSize-sensitive designs
    \r\nSized designs \r\nSize-fitted designs \r\nSize tailored designs \r\nSize tailored
    variants\r\nSize-adjusted designs\r\nSize-adjusted variants \r\nSize-suited designs
    \r\nCustom-designed sizes \r\nCustom-designed size variants\r\ncustom sizes\r\nsize
    tailored\r\n\r\nStill not there...\r\n \r\n  "
  created: '2011-11-08 21:13:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Function-Fitted\r\nForm-Fit"
  created: '2011-11-08 21:14:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '''Size-specific designs'' is hardly a mouthful, and it is precise and accurate.'
  created: '2011-11-09 07:02:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I wouldn't exactly say precise and accurate in every case, subheads can be
    the same or similar size as text but have other adjustments to make them suit
    the purpose.  Actually, as long as the name is not causing confusion (like optical)
    it  will eventually take on its own meaning.  "Use-Specific" seems more accurate
    (less confusing) to me than "size".  I can just imagine a type user asking, "At
    what size do I switch from text to subhead?"
  created: '2011-11-09 13:24:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I wouldn't exactly say precise and accurate in every case, subheads can
    be the same or similar size as text but have other adjustments to make them suit
    the purpose.</em>\r\n\r\nBut we're not talking about text of the same size that
    has non-size-specific adjust adjustments, we're talking about size-specific designs.
    I don't really care how a typographer uses the different designs, because I have
    no control over that. I've always thought Adobe's names for their 'optical sizes'
    were silly and ultimately irrelevant: I use the subhead fonts at the sizes at
    which I think they work best, not when I am typesetting subheads. They are size-specific
    designs, and should be identified as such, preferably with the size range in the
    font menu name.\r\n\r\nIf you want to talk about non-size-specific design features
    of fonts intended for different typographic functions, independent of size, that's
    an interesting topic too, but it is a different one. The fact that it is possible
    to consider designs intended for e.g. subhead use that are not also size-specific
    designs just indicates that it is a bad idea to conflate the two things in naming."
  created: '2011-11-09 15:07:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting how this discussion has evolved. John, when I said \"mouthful\"
    I didn't mean that it's too long, but that it's a bit of a tongue-twister, at
    least for me.\r\n\r\nChris brings up a good point, which highlights that there
    are different approaches to the problem of \"use specific\" or \"usage specific\"
    designs. At Adobe, they have called them \"opticals\" and emphasized the adjustment
    of design for size. At Font Bureau, they have emphasized functionality, talking
    about \"deck\" size, \"newspaper\" text and display type, and so on. Size is part
    of the story, though not the whole story. \r\n\r\nRecently I heard the brilliant
    architect [[http://www.charlierose.com/view/interview/11954|Rem Koolhaas]] interviewed
    by Charlie Rose, and he preferred to talk about how a building \"performs\" rather
    than how it \"functions.\"  I guess the idea is to emphasize the importance of
    how people interact with the physical objects and space in a dynamic process.\r\n\r\nThat's
    probably the best word also for type: that you design it for performance in a
    particular role, or set of roles. \r\n\r\n(I think Koolhaas' new Beijing building
    is an ugly monstrosity, but that's another matter.)  \r\n\r\n\"tailored by size
    and role for optimal performance.\" \r\n\r\nI think there is also a problem with
    \"use specific,\" though. That there is a pretty standard set of things that is
    done for readability at small sizes: larger x height, lower contrast, wider spacing.
    But the user might successfully use the type for a different purpose than envisaged
    by the designer, so it might be a mistake to specify a single usage... \r\n\r\nOk,
    not helpful. But interesting, to me at least. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-09 15:09:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think size-specific and use-specific have to be considered as separate.
    Yes, a design may be both size-specific and use-specific, e.g. a type intended
    for newspaper decks that also presumes a particular size for such settings, but
    the point is that it has been designed with both criteria in mind, and not that
    these two different design criteria are somehow intrinsically melded.
  created: '2011-11-09 18:50:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" The fact that it is possible to consider designs intended for e.g. subhead
    use that are not also size-specific designs just indicates that it is a bad idea
    to conflate the two things in naming.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps so. Either name is still
    much better than \"optical\" yet neither may be the better label to put on type
    that is specific to a functional set of variables not aptly captured in the current
    one-outline-fits-all digital type genre. \r\n I would like a term that stands
    for \"multi-outline\" that would combine both the usage-specific and the size-specific
    outlines rather than expect the hair-splitting nomenclature discussions to be
    replaced by an even more confusing concept for users to unravel. Users are often
    confused about when to use one or another \"optical\" size.  Perhaps it would
    be best to use an unknown variable glyph as we do in mathematics (x, y, z). Even
    better, we could use a common Greek letter like \u03C0 followed by either a sweet-spot
    size like \"\u03C0-12\" or usage designation like \"\u03C0/subhead, or \u03C0/sh\".
    The \u03C0 glyph would become a sign for the whole usage/size amalgam and would
    be very short to add to a font name.  Bodoni Bold \u03C0/sh is using less space
    than Bodoni Bold Subhead 12.  The problem I have with using numerical size in
    the name is that, as you say, users may choose a size differing from what the
    type designer chooses [even sometimes rightfully]. \r\nThe marketing folks might
    even buy in on a name less unerwhelming than \"optical\" ;-)"
  created: '2011-11-09 19:48:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Chris, you're too modest.\r\nYou've invented the Lozos coefficient.\r\nNow
    all you have to do is tabulate it.\r\n(While you're at it, it will probably require
    its own Unicode character \u2026)"
  created: '2011-11-09 20:13:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I'm OK with maths, but I'm no pro, so please explain as plainly as you
    can :-)\"\r\n\r\nI'm not a math wiz either, but the styles you show have little
    to do with Grades as as we make them here at FB. They also, by getting wider as
    the contrast increases, are not Optical Size masters. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-09 20:40:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"While you're at it, it will probably require its own Unicode character
    \u2026)\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! And it would look like a bald bearded guy with his finger
    up his ass ;-)\r\n\r\nPS:\r\n\r\nHere is an image to add \u03C0 to your face.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pie-in-the-face_6434.png]"
  created: '2011-11-09 21:52:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Maybe resurrect the gemstone sizes as design size clues?
  created: '2011-11-10 19:44:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Size-graded designs. That''s easier to say. '
  created: '2011-11-10 20:56:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about \"scalar\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 00:11:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u03C0 is easier to say :-P"
  created: '2011-11-11 04:48:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But it's already taken.\r\n\r\nTo be fair (?) though I only skimmed your
    post.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 05:25:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is only taken for math and Greek :-)\r\nMy intent was to arrive at a very
    brief symbol that would not further clutter name fields than needed. It is available
    in every typeface and script and is a variable.\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 14:56:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '... and is not a character that I would want to risk putting in a font name
    table for display in menus.'
  created: '2011-11-11 15:02:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Also if you are a certain age, pi type brings to mind the not pretty picture
    of a case of type spilled on the floor :) '
  created: '2011-11-11 17:08:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or of the age where a slice of \u03C0 a la mode with coffee sounds great!\r\n"
  created: '2011-11-11 18:05:47'
date: '2011-06-16 13:39:43'
title: The interpolation theory and optical grades.

---
