---
author:
  name: Edvino
  picture: 120028
body: "I didn't find any similar threads on my question here so here goes:\r\n\r\nI
  want to try out webfonts for a website I'm currently designing. But when i was about
  to order the font + webfont license i came across the gallery on myfonts.com which
  show renditions in different browsers. The Mac rendition looks fine. But the ie7
  looks horrible. Is that still the ase for ie8 and ie9? \r\nWill I have big problems
  with webfonts across platforms? Because that jagged looking version is really not
  appealing.\r\n\r\nThe example is not the font in question but the jaggedness is
  still the same."
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It should look better in IE9, which uses y-direction greyscale smoothing in
    combination with x-direction subpixel smoothing.
  created: '2011-06-17 23:55:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Unless the font has been specially engineered to solve for this ( most types
    are not ) you will get a fairly high contrast and even jaggy presentation in most
    windows browsers. All the font vendors are working to improve this but it will
    take time and the font you want is not guaranteed to ever be fixed. The thing
    to do is start assembling a list of the fonts you feel render well enough to use.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the result you get from my fonts may not match that of another source.\r\n\r\nIt
    is also worth asking yourself how large you need to make the font before it works
    nicely. This will vary by font quite a lot. You will probably want to use it larger
    than that because people scale text up & down in size a great deal these days.\r\n\r\nRE:
    IE9 - until IE9 has a genuinely dominant market share ( and even then!) this will
    still be an issue. Old browsers seem to take a long time to disappear."
  created: '2011-06-18 00:06:58'
- author:
    name: Edvino
    picture: 120028
  body: "Good. But how about ie8?\r\n\r\nFrom the w3schools.com:\r\nBrowser statistics:\r\n2011\tInternet
    Explorer Firefox Chrome Safari Opera\r\nMay\t24.9 %\t          42.4 %  25.9 %
    4.0 %\t2.4 %\r\n\r\nIE\r\n2011\tTotal\tIE 9\tIE 8\tIE 7\tIE 6\r\nMay\t24.9 %\t3.1
    %\t14.1 %\t5.3 %\t2.4 %\r\nApril\t24.3 %\t2.1 %\t14.8 %\t4.9 %\t2.5 %\r\nMarch\t25.8
    %\t1.1 %\t16.3 %\t5.4 %\t3.0 %\r\n\r\nFirefox\r\n2011\tTotal\tFF 4.0\tFF 3.6\tFF
    3.5\tFF 3.0\tOther\r\nMay\t42.4 %\t23.6 %\t15.7 %\t1.8 %\t1.0 %\t0.3 %\r\nApril\t42.9
    %\t15.7 %\t23.8 %\t2.1 %\t1.1 %\t0.2 %\r\nMarch\t42.2 %\t5.2 %\t32.9 %\t2.5 %\t1.3
    %\t0.3 %\r\n\r\nAs we see from the numbers people are slowly moving over to the
    new browsers (which I hope has some kind of smoothing) \r\n\r\nBut most people
    will still see the webfonts jagged? Me not like. "
  created: '2011-06-18 00:10:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, the issue Edvino is pointing to isn't something that can be readily
    addressed at the font level. It is due to the fact that GDI versions of ClearType,
    as used in IE prior to version 9, apply subpixel smoothing in the x-direction
    but no smoothing at all in the y-direction. This is fine at small sizes -- better,
    I would say, than applying y-direction smoothing at those sizes as it maintains
    stroke density -- but at larger sizes the type will look jagged. No amount of
    font engineering will resolve this, because it is a renderer issue.\r\n\r\nIE9
    uses the newer, DWrite version of ClearType, which smooths in the y-direction
    and so looks better at larger sizes."
  created: '2011-06-19 10:28:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...sizes -- better, I would say, than applying y-direction smoothing at
    those sizes as it maintains stroke density...\r\n\r\nY Hinting maintains stroke
    density just fine. Y aliasing was an admitted and costly mistake."
  created: '2011-06-19 10:38:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Who is \"admitting\" this? Why costly?\r\n\r\nEdvin seems to prefer the Mac
    rendering (not that he is right or wrong but...) which has Y dir rendering.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    what if you have set grid fitting to symmetric smoothing + grid fit and symmetric
    smoothing, and also put this in the PREP table?\r\n\r\nPUSHW_1\r\n 511\r\nSCANCTRL\r\nPUSHB_1\r\n
    4\r\nSCANTYPE\r\n\r\nWould this help?"
  created: '2011-06-19 17:13:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>Y aliasing was an admitted and costly mistake.</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    implemented, yes. Providing the possibility of aliasing in the y-direction at
    text sizes, via the gasp table, is a good thing, but enforcing aliasing at all
    sizes was a bad mistake.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think the gasp table should be extended
    to allow a whole range of different, size-specific rendering possibilities, including
    control of both bitmap rendering and spacing. This would enable one not only to
    determine at what sizes and in which directions what form of smoothing would be
    applied or not applied, it would also allow us to snap to full pixel grids for
    spacing at specific sizes and allow intermediate sizes to float in subpixel positioning
    environments.\r\n\r\nHowever, the growing prevalence of pinch-zooming in mobile
    devices makes mechanisms that introduce non-linear text scaling unpopular among
    UA developers."
  created: '2011-06-19 20:28:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, the issue here is hardcoded in GDI ClearType: it doesn't know how to
    do symmetric smoothing.\r\n\r\nIf you look at the latest <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/gasp.htm\">gasp
    table spec,</a> you'll see that the same flags have different meanings when applied
    to 'Font Smoothing' (non-CT aliasing/antialiasing) and 'ClearType with Symmetric
    Smoothing' (as in DWrite ClearType). GDI ClearType effectively ignores the gasp
    table: it is a fixed state for all sizes: x-direction subpixel smoothing and y-direction
    aliasing. As far as I'm aware, this can't be changed at the font level because
    when GDI ClearType was shipped Beat hadn't yet implemented symmetrical smoothing."
  created: '2011-06-19 20:36:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH>I think the gasp table should be extended to allow a whole range of different,
    size-specific rendering possibilities...\r\n\r\nPlay this out in reality, and
    you'll see just how problematic that idea is. \r\n\r\nAre not 1000s fonts in the
    real windows world Gasp table challenged? web sites showing up on windows with
    a variety of renderings on the page is wrong ain't it? And both platforms are
    so background challenged, there is no right answer left there is there? And no
    matter what you do, the GDI widows user gets crap at display sizes, right? Should
    I take ya on an international tour of this issue? Hasn't CSS added a whole slew
    of options to befuddle this further? Isn't the motive for letting otherwise useless
    CFF fonts on windows a big glob of web font goo to solve part of this? CSS/@FF
    is not good at dynamic font decisions is it?\r\n\r\nES>Who is \"admitting\" this?
    Why costly?\r\n\r\nwho do you think would have to admit such a thing? See above
    for costly, compared to the Mac, where rendering may be disagreeable to Windows
    users, but they don't use the Mac, so who cares;) \r\n"
  created: '2011-06-20 01:52:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>web sites showing up on windows with a variety of renderings on
    the page is wrong ain't it?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced that it is wrong. Who
    was complaining in the pre-ClearType days when the same font was an aliased bitmap
    at text sizes and smoothed at larger sizes? Who, even was complaining when the
    same size of type was aliased in the roman but antialiased in the bold? GDI ClearType,
    by contrast, tried to apply the same rendering method to every size of every font,
    and isn't that what we're saying is wrong?\r\n\r\nAs for legacy problems, the
    only way to resolve them is to leave them further and further behind until the
    last person using IE6 on Windows XP is carried out in a box.\r\n\r\nI'm more concerned
    with the new problems coming down the pipe to a user's computer near you, but
    which there may be time to address before they become entrenched legacy problems.
    You and I have both spent time recently creating fonts that are tailored to full
    pixel grids at specific sizes (sorry, mine not released yet and I can't talk about
    them), but that careful work is wrecked in subpixel spacing environments if those
    fonts are preceded in the line of text by fonts that are not designed to the grid:
    our full font grid gets shifted off the full pixel boundaries. That isn't a problem
    affecting thousands of fonts in circulation and in legacy environments: it is
    a problem affecting your latest attempts to deal with those older problems."
  created: '2011-06-20 04:05:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">it is a problem affecting your latest attempts....\r\n\r\nMy latest attempts?
    (Are actually immune to all such things, entirely)."
  created: '2011-06-20 04:26:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> rendering may be disagreeable to Windows users\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't
    care about the platform. My contention has been -and remains- that it's disagreeable
    to the human reading system. The purist in me would add that it is also a waste
    of potential, hence culturally impoverished.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-20 04:42:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Hrant talking about the web, I assume, and I agree.
  created: '2011-06-20 05:35:49'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">As for legacy problems, the only way to resolve them is to leave them further
    and >further behind until the last person using IE6 on Windows XP is carried out
    in a box.\r\n\r\nHudson make funny. Richie LOL."
  created: '2011-06-20 14:38:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...until the last person using IE6 on Windows XP is carried out in a box.\r\n\r\nI
    wish it were the software alone, we are waiting fer ta die,  but unfortunately,
    on windows, it's also the resolution of the boxes."
  created: '2011-06-23 08:29:21'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">it's also the resolution of the boxes.\r\n\r\nTrue, but not really an OS
    specific issue seems to me. I'm assuming you're talking about pixel density. And
    fonts on my Mac 23\" screen are a very far cry away from the same fonts on my
    iPhone4's Retina display.\r\nIt will take a very long time, but I'm hoping just
    to see some progress in the middle somewhere.\r\nA pixel density of about 130
    ppi - as I've got on my wife's new HP Slate - even does GDI rendering a lot of
    good compared to the standard desktop LCD.\r\nHow soon and at what price we'll
    see large desktop screens like that, I have no idea.\r\n\r\nRetina-like 234 ppi
    on the desktop?  Well, I'm also hoping for advances in medical science so's I
    can live to see it! I don't want to be the guy carried out in the box!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 20:06:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Two things to consider about \"actual-computer\" systems:\r\n1) A computer
    screen is viewed at a greater distance than a portable device, so the ppi doesn't
    need to be as high.\r\n2) The more the pixels, the lower the performance. A 23\"
    screen at a \"Retina-like\" resolution would be a major drag on some combination
    of: performance, portability, battery life and the wallet!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 20:21:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: One thing to keep in mind about "actual-expertise" in crude media type designers,
    I know.;)
  created: '2011-06-23 20:48:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean like making Arabic work on an 8\xD77 grid, using byte code, which
    I did at 13?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-24 01:48:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Good for you. But I mean continuing on non-stop until that dang Arabic works
    at all sizes from a single outline font for all rendering techniques with modern
    OT technology and effects that are reactive to adaptive layout and user needs.
  created: '2011-06-24 05:15:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have no doubt that you have more experience.\r\nBut each one of us has
    something to contribute.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-24 06:41:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Of course, but intsead of contributing stuff along the road, or making things
    that run on the road, we are stuck by the powers that be, building the surface,
    over and over, except when we are explaining it over and over. '
  created: '2011-06-24 10:16:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think it is more the case that the powers that be keep introducing new surfaces,
    and the tanks that we built to go up the last gravel hill can't be used in the
    wooden velodrome.
  created: '2011-06-24 19:24:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>...on windows, it's also the resolution of the boxes.</em>\r\n\r\nTo
    clarify, do you refer to:\r\n\r\na) the resolution being frequently too low for
    the rendering methods employed;\r\n\r\nb) the wide range of resolutions and total
    lack of standardisation of pixel densities across different PC screen manufacturers;\r\n\r\nc)
    the lack of any directly compatible resolution between Windows and Mac;\r\n\r\nd)
    all of the above?"
  created: '2011-06-24 19:29:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, let me be clear. Regardless of GDI vs DW, and only on Windows below
    100 dpi for readers at a normal distance for those screen sizes present, CT Does
    Not \"effectively triple the resolution\". This was the founding lie of CT. The
    lie and the rendering does cripple the web fonts thingy going forward as much
    type simply does not survive unhinted and unquantized x direction shapes, kerning,
    angles and composite instructions.\r\n\r\nMS has paid dearly for developers to
    fix these issues to be better with deltas  in their system fonts, linking to a
    white lie about wanting to escape deltas. Those developers have collaborated in
    the distancing of system fonts from what can be reasonably achieved in web fonts
    for this area of windows users, and the liars have moved on to the inexpert typographic
    pastures they could never have left in a real meritocracy, leaving me alone to
    explain the truth at my own expense. I'm just now finally warming to the task
    ;)\r\n\r\nb and c are tangential, and d... Not so much. "
  created: '2011-06-30 11:35:59'
- author:
    name: gferreira
    picture: 110517
  body: '@dberlow You are not alone. (+ different explanations are possible)'
  created: '2011-07-01 12:11:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>+ different explanations are possible</em>\r\n\r\nNo, no. Only David's
    explanations are possible.\r\n\r\nDavid: <em>Regardless of GDI vs DW, and only
    on Windows below 100 dpi for readers at a normal distance for those screen sizes
    present, CT Does Not \"effectively triple the resolution\".</em>\r\n\r\nDid anyone
    claim that CT effectively triples the resolution of the device for the reader?
    There is no sense in which that statement can be understood as true. What CT does
    (and other subpixel rendering technologies) is to effectively triple the resolution
    available to the sampler and hence to representing the characteristics of the
    typeface design. Simply put, you triple the number of discreet addressable device
    elements, which means that aspects of glyphs which formerly would have to either
    distorted through rounding to a full pixel (aliased) or degraded through reduction
    in stroke density (greyscale antialiasing) can be rendered with less distortion
    and less degradation. This is most obviously seen in CT rendering of diagonal
    strokes, which were typically subject to most distortion or degradation in non-subpixel
    rendering.\r\n\r\nBut then I'm the one who has always said that antialiasing in
    general, and CT no exception, is primarily about making typefaces look like typefaces
    -- What You See Is What Looks More Like Times New Roman Than Lego -- and not about
    reading."
  created: '2011-07-01 18:45:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I don't like your tone John, but I will reply, once again, like a patient
    and true constitutionalist trying to have civli discourse with a constitutionally
    ignorant tea party bigot, I point you to the description of ClearType in the Wikipedia,
    where a dozen other falsehoods i did not write, reside at the apparent pleasure
    of CTs funding fathers. \r\n\r\nFor crystal clear search instructions on google
    pair the phrase \"effectively triples\" with the word Cleartype, you know how
    to do that I think. \r\n\r\nOne of the other search results is here,\r\n\r\nhttp://billhillsblog.blogspot.com/2008/02/cleartype-technology-with-limited-shelf.html\r\n\r\nwhere
    in a not atypical personal attack, my \"shelf life\" is questioned in the headline
    \ by someone whose own shelf life in crude media lasted about .25 nanoseconds
    past his MS employment.\r\n\r\nI'm up past my bedtime, or I'd make your arguments
    look like Sarah Palins brain after an hour of debate with J.Q. Adams.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 01:41:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "What arguments, David?\r\n\r\nThe single point I made is that there is only
    one sense in which it can be reasonably said that 'ClearType effectively triples
    (x-direction) resolution', and that is in terms of the sampler and hence the accuracy-to-outline
    of the rendering of glyph details, and hence the rendering of characteristics
    of the typeface on screen. That is the only sense it which it is true that resolution
    is effectively tripled, so that is the sense in which I've always understood the
    statement. A 96ppi screen obviously doesn't become a 288ppi screen from the reader's
    perspective, so that obviously isn't the sense in which the statement should be
    understood.\r\n\r\nErgo, when you say \u2018Regardless of GDI vs DW, and only
    on Windows below 100 dpi for readers at a normal distance for those screen sizes
    present, CT Does Not \"effectively triple the resolution\"\u2019, I'm left wondering
    where the insight is, because for the reader at whatever distance the resolution
    is what the resolution is, and no text rendering method changes that resolution.
    What changes is the relationship of rasterised outline to that resolution, which
    is based on an effectively tripled x-direction grid due to supersampling.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I'm only responsible for my own opinions and my own precision, so if you've found
    evidence of anyone else interpreting that triple resolution statement differently,
    on Wikipedia (!) or anywhere else, that's between you and them."
  created: '2011-07-02 02:55:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>For crystal clear search instructions on google pair the phrase
    \"effectively triples\" with the word Cleartype...</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, I've done
    this, and it is sort of useful as an insight into lazy journalism and sloppy thinking,
    but at least provides a basis for me to clarify my own views. These are the top
    five links from that search:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.ipowerweb.com/iboost/profit/other_revenue_streams/ebooks/tutorial/30020c.htm\">\u2018Cleartype
    technology effectively triples the horizontal resolution of your screen to smoothen
    on-screen typography making it far easier to read.\u2019</a>\r\n\r\nNote that
    this, correctly in my view, explicitly associates the triple resolution claim
    with font smoothing, while incorrectly expressing this in terms of an effect on
    screen resolution. The secondary statement -- \u2018making it far easier to read\u2019
    -- is uncritical journo bullshit. Far easier than what?\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://superuser.com/questions/140019/the-best-lcd-monitors-for-reading-text'>\u2018ClearType
    effectively triples the horizontal resolution of the monitor. Certainly, this
    works better in some cases (resolutions, type faces, etc.) than in others. However,
    in my experience the opposite is true - I've never seen a situation that was made
    worse with ClearType enabled, but I've seen multiple situations where clarity
    is dramatically improved with it enabled.\u2019</a>\r\n\r\nThis is a user comment
    on a forum, and as such represents a reader's taste and experience. It also represents
    some really poor logic, since if results depend on particular resolutions, typefaces,
    etc., then clearly ClearType is not \u2018effectively tripling the resolution
    of the monitor\u2019.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://scien.stanford.edu/jfsite/Papers/ImageRendering/Displays/Farrell_et_al_SID2009.pdf\">\u2018ClearType
    technology effectively triples the spatial resolution in the horizontal axis;
    but at the same time subpixel rendering\r\nintroduces color artifacts.\u2019</a>\r\n\r\nThis
    is from the academic paper on the \u2018Visual Preference for ClearType Technology\u2019,
    which is all about \u2018perceived image quality of text\u2019. I'd want to ask
    Kevin Larson what the authors meant by \u2018spatial resolution\u2019, and to
    justify the claim based on that context. Note, however, that this paper is concerned
    with perceived image quality of the text, not reading (cf. my belief that all
    antialiasing, including CT, is primarily about the look of type on screen not
    readability).\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://forums.anandtech.com/archive/index.php/t-732902.html\">\u2018While
    some will disagree, ClearType is primarily beneficial for LCDs. It effectively
    triples the effective resolution along one axis; can't recall if that's vert or
    horizontal. If so-called ClearType makes it to Linux (and preliminary support
    is there), my next display will definitely be an LCD.\u2019</a>\r\n\r\nAnother
    user comment in a forum. What's to say other than that he hasn't understood what
    he has presumably heard from elsewhere? I do enjoy the idea of effectively tripling
    effective resolution, though, which is surely better than effectively tripling
    ineffective resolution, or ineffectively tripling effective resolution. :)\r\n\r\nAnd
    then we arrive at the Wikipedia article on CT, and its worth quoting the complete
    context of the triple resolution statement here, since the sentence in which it
    occurs, taken by itself, seems both confused and confusing:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ClearType\">\u2018If
    the computer controlling the display knows the exact position and color of all
    the subpixels on the screen, it can take advantage of this to improve the apparent
    resolution of the images on the screen in certain situations. If each pixel on
    the display actually contains three rectangular subpixels of red, green, and blue,
    in that fixed order, then things on the screen that are smaller than one full
    pixel in size can be rendered by lighting only one or two of the subpixels. For
    example, if a diagonal line with a width smaller than a full pixel must be rendered,
    then this can be done by lighting only the subpixels that the line actually touches.
    If the line passes through the leftmost portion of the pixel, only the red subpixel
    is lit; if it passes through the rightmost portion of the pixel, only the blue
    subpixel is lit. This effectively triples the horizontal resolution of the image
    at normal viewing distances; but the drawback is that the line thus drawn will
    show color fringes (at some points it might look green, at other points it might
    look red or blue). ClearType uses this method to improve the smoothness of text.
    When the elements of a type character are smaller than a full pixel, ClearType
    lights only the appropriate subpixels of each full pixel in order to more closely
    follow the outlines of the character. Text rendered with ClearType looks \u201Csmoother\u201D
    than text rendered without it, provided that the pixel layout of the display screen
    exactly matches what ClearType expects.\u2019</a>\r\n\r\nI find the reference
    to \u2018normal viewing distances\u2019 odd and irrelevant, because what is clearly
    being discussed, from the rest of the text and from the accompanying illustrations,
    is what is happening in the rasterising, i.e. exactly what I said above: the resolution
    is effectively tripled for sampling purposes, which enables finer display of type
    characteristics such as the thin diagonal line illustrated in the article. Once
    again, note how CT is explicitly associated with \u2018smoothness\u2019, with
    text \u2018looking \u201Csmoother\u201D\u2019, about the resolution of the \u2018image\u2019."
  created: '2011-07-02 04:02:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I will reply, once again, like a patient and true constitutionalist
    trying to have civli [sic] discourse with a constitutionally ignorant tea party
    bigot .... I'm up past my bedtime, or I'd make your arguments look like Sarah
    Palins brain after an hour of debate with J.Q. Adams.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd you don't
    like <em>my</em> tone?\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm looking forward to seeing you in New
    Orleans, on the basis that Cajun food and bourbon are better conduits of civil
    discourse and mutual understanding than online forums."
  created: '2011-07-02 04:09:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Decision decisions ... Should we drink to stagnant standards, the terminally
    decimated middle classes of type, graphic and web designers, more Mordors and
    red ink, or the right to vacillate between all for one and one for all and all
    for naught and one for one ?
  created: '2011-07-02 16:35:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Let's drink to Gerald.
  created: '2011-07-02 23:43:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ".\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 00:25:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Why not one for fellowship?
  created: '2011-07-03 23:06:45'
date: '2011-06-17 23:52:14'
files:
- filename: jagged.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/jagged.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Webfonts rendering

---
