---
author:
  name: Gunarta
  picture: 121772
body: "I really confuse with my question, it made dirty my mind for a days, \"Is typography
  a science?\"\r\n\r\n50/50. I think Typography is mixture of art and science. Because,
  Typography is art and another side is science. The science side is about how to
  make the text and letters can be more readable, legible, and proper with people
  who want to use it. \r\n\r\nThe characteristics of science is:\r\n\r\n1. Knowledge.\r\nI
  think typography have it.\r\n\r\n2. Scientifically Ordered\r\nI think typography
  doesn't have it yet.\r\n\r\n3. Using the power of thought\r\nHave it.\r\n\r\n4.
  Objective\r\nSure. The object is type.\r\n\r\nthat's all..\r\n\r\nGunarta"
comments:
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Interesting, I was wondering about 'scientifically ordered' yesterday at
    Ampersand. Tim Brown was explaining his <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ohbendy/5844599533/in/set-72157626864079627/\">modular
    scaling system </a> into which you can plug in your 'key' type size, and it returns
    a set of compatible sizes that click. (Try it out at <a href=\"http://modularscale.com/\">modularscale.com</a>
    (still under development).\r\n\r\nIt made me question whether principles of typography
    can be so easily translated into Maths. Music can also be translated into Maths,
    but IMO something is lost in translation, and the results are not useful for creating
    music."
  created: '2011-06-18 14:53:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/82325\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76016"
  created: '2011-06-18 15:38:10'
- author:
    name: Jean Paul Beumer
    picture: 113283
  body: 'Related book: [[http://www.design-bookshelf.com/Type/type_reading.html|While
    you''re Reading]] by Professor of Typography (!) Gerard Unger.'
  created: '2011-06-18 15:57:15'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: Typography is a craft.
  created: '2011-06-18 16:57:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/82325\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/76016</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nand \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/68707\r\n\r\nThis horse has been pretty
    well beaten around here."
  created: '2011-06-18 17:56:27'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Thanks Craig, that was the thread I mostly meant to link to :-)
  created: '2011-06-18 18:28:08'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "i think typography may be a science someday. It has so many rules in its
    knowledge and making type. Now, typography is a part of design art yet. \r\n\r\nIf
    typography is science, which one it will be classified? Natural Science (the study
    of natural phenomena) and Social Science (study human behavior). I think it will
    included in Social Science. Because, the usage Typography is never separated with
    human's life. (while Wikipedia explain typography is an art and technique to arrange
    type). Typography may be included into formal science also, or applied science
    (the object is mainly engineering).\r\n\r\nIf typography is NOT a science. Why
    there is the academy discipline of it? Why there is professor of Typography? Why
    Typography is studied by people? I expect typography is a science soon. Looks!
    We only need to find the basic laws that universal. \r\n\r\nScience is a systematic
    enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations
    and predictions about the world. (Wikipedia)\r\n\r\nSome characteristic of Science:\r\n1.
    Knowledge\r\nTypography is created by the ideas and curiosity of humankind. It
    can be as craft and engineering.\r\n\r\n2. Scientifically ordered\r\nTo be a science,
    something needs a arranged knowledge. That arranged knowledge can be called as
    science. Typography has knowledge, about its history, legibility and readability,
    the role to human life. Even more, Typography has scope and experimental things.
    However, there is none arranging knowledge in typography yet.\r\n\r\n3. Using
    power of thought\r\nKnowledge comes from idea and curiosity of human. The idea
    and curiosity come from fact. Since Aldine has found, Akzidenz-Grotesk is labelled
    as wierd, Comic sans hated, I think Typography is really interesting. The people
    could judge and evaluate some type in majority way. It's a clue that it can be
    concluded into science.\r\n\r\n4. Objective\r\nThe object is type and i said before,
    Typography has scope. And scope is preventing people to not step into outer boundaries.
    The Comic Sans case, the masters of type said the same thing. Comic Sans may not
    used as grave text, traffic text, ect. Some other said that Comic Sans have bad
    kerning. It's clue that Typography is science.\r\n\r\n@bendy: What is modular
    scaling system? I can't understand the function."
  created: '2011-06-19 04:23:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Adien, you are thinking about very interesting things but to do this kind
    of subject justice you have to bite off bits at a time and really chew them. What
    you are doing in your reasoning is too broad and too unfocused. As a result it
    feels like the kind of argument I might hear at a party. It is fun enough in some
    ways - but it can't be taken seriously. \r\n\r\nAlso many people are spending
    a lot of time doing this work now and it is getting less and less hard to find
    out about it. I suggest that you do look into this work. Take your time, but do
    your research!"
  created: '2011-06-19 07:05:26'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: do research is not my job i think. Professor does.
  created: '2011-06-19 08:07:20'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "It\u2019s students\u2019 job too."
  created: '2011-06-19 09:21:55'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: The modular scale is a system of ratios. You pick a key type size and the
    system generates a set of compatible sizes based on whichever ratio you pick.
    So in that slide, the key type size is 16pt. The modular scale shows two other
    sizes, 25.88 and 9.88 point, obtained by multiplying and dividing by the Golden
    Ratio, 1.618. Setting type at these sizes is said to be harmonious on the page/screen.
    For me there are so many variables (leading, line length, and of course the style
    of the font itself) that even with the modular scale you can still easily end
    up with a mess. A design eye is unavoidably crucial.
  created: '2011-06-19 10:09:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I don''t mean you should do scientific research. I mean you could just read
    the information that is easily available on typophile and else where. In any event
    I don''t mean to be insulting. I am just saying that your post covers too many
    areas at once, and covers ground that has been discussed quite a bit already.
    That is why many replies were links. '
  created: '2011-06-19 16:57:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Bendy, was this reply of yours for another thread?
  created: '2011-06-19 16:58:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Gunarta had asked what the function of the modular scale was; I'd mentioned
    it above as one example of a 'scientific' approach to typography.
  created: '2011-06-19 18:12:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Modern notions of science tend to focus on method rather than on ''arrangement
    of knowledge''. Knowledge can be arranged in any number of ways, many of them
    arbitrary, whimsical or willful. See, for example, the majority of typeface classification
    schemes, which certainly involve arrangement of knowledge but are anything but
    scientific. Science isn''t something one has: it is something one <em>does.</em>
    So the question is not whether typography is or is not a science, but what it
    means to do science in the context of typography.'
  created: '2011-06-19 19:55:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'PS. For a long time my desktop wallpaper consisted of a piece of calligraphy
    including the quote from Johann Jakob von Weingarten: <em>Inter scientias non
    minima est typographica</em>. Obviously that is using an older understanding of
    science.'
  created: '2011-06-19 20:01:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: http://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/5106181524/in/set-72157626216163820/lightbox/
  created: '2011-06-19 23:20:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Gunarta: A bit of information to help you get started\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/process_6498.gif]\r\n\r\nBordens
    & Abbott\u2019s (2008) diagram of the scientific method\r\n\r\nAnd if you want
    a nice start into researching the field of a scientific approach to the practice
    of typography, Kevin Larson has a nice piece of writing which isn\u2019t that
    hard of a read:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/wordrecognition.aspx\r\n\r\nMany
    people consider Miles Tinker to be one of the earlier contributors to this field.
    His work is not that hard to read either. You may need a bit of help with the
    statistics. I also (try to) keep a growing list of literature for my own records:\r\n\r\nhttp://readthetype.com/literature/\r\n\r\nYou
    will most likely need access to scientific journal databases for the majority
    of this content, but it has been my experience that if you contact the authour
    directly they are more than willing to share their work. And Google Scholar seems
    to be far more successful than it used to be.\r\n\r\nAdditional threads include:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/59093\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/61626\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/58433\r\n\r\nAnd
    Craig (eliason) is correct. There is certainly no shortage of debate on this topic
    at Typophile. Chances are, the conversation you\u2019re looking for had already
    happened several times. Good luck with your research."
  created: '2011-06-20 02:13:31'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '"Typography: The Forgotten Link between Science, Art and Craft?" (Wonder
    if someone somewhere will defend a doctorate on this...)'
  created: '2011-06-20 20:34:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sssh\u2026let's keep it a secret."
  created: '2011-06-20 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">let's keep it a secret.\r\n\r\nToo late. My talk on the \"Great Readability
    Scandal\" could be subtitled that. Will you be at TypeCon this year, Nick?"
  created: '2011-06-20 22:06:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Fraid not.\r\nMight go to Iceland, though."
  created: '2011-06-21 02:20:52'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201CPerfect typography is more a science than an art.\u201D\r\n\r\nTschichold,
    J. (1948). <em>Clay in a Potters Hand, as cited from The Form of the Book</em>.
    Hartley & Marks Publishers Inc. Washington, USA.\r\n\r\n(1st sentence of 1st essay)"
  created: '2011-06-21 14:34:25'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "OK, this is the fist Basic Law:\r\n\r\n1. You can read letters and words.\r\n2.
    Serifs make letters more readable (in good kerning)\r\n3. Hand written font is
    not hand writing\r\n\r\n\r\n(these is the thinking of student's brain like me.
    Imagine, if professor would think about it)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 16:02:30'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "I agreed with Dean, perfect Typography is more a science.\r\n\r\nAbout Graphology,
    it's a science that study about human's HAND WRITING and its relationship with
    soul.\r\n\r\nI think Typography is BIGGER than graphology. If Typography studied
    and ordered scientifically, people will not use Comic Sans for Grave anymore"
  created: '2011-06-21 16:08:21'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>2. Serifs make letters more readable (in good kerning)</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nRefutable.
    See:\r\n\r\nDeLange, R. W., Esterhuizen, H. L. & Beatty, D. (1993). Performance
    differences between Times \Land Helvetica in a reading task. <em>Electronic Publishing,
    6(3)</em>, 241\u2013248.\r\n\r\nPatterson, D. G. & Tinker, M. A. (1932a). Studies
    of typographical factors influencing speed of reading: X. Style of type face.
    <em>Journal of Applied Psychology, 16(6)</em>, 605\u2013613."
  created: '2011-06-21 18:08:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026Performance differences between Times \Land Helvetica\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    Helvetica and which Times?\r\n\r\nTypographers believe the difference in cuts
    is significant, hence the newly undead Haas Grotesk.\r\n\r\nI doubt that science
    would ever be able to establish an objective measure of the reading-functional
    difference between the various cuts of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nTypography, as practised
    by typographers, is beyond science."
  created: '2011-06-21 18:53:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">beyond science\r\n\r\nI think the aesthetic side of typography is not likely
    to be understood by science any time soon. The craft aspects involving readability
    I think are. "
  created: '2011-06-21 19:11:56'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Science is overrated.
  created: '2011-06-21 19:25:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So Bill, the selection of a particular cut of a typeface is \"merely\" aesthetic,
    and has no effect on readability?\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nIn discussing Helvetica Neue,
    Ilene Strizver says, \"Widened crossbars on the lowercase f and t increase character
    recognition in text.\"\r\nhttp://www.creativepro.com/blog/typetalk-helvetica-vs-neue-helvetica\r\n\r\nAre
    you saying that the widened crossbars are aesthetic, not craft, because their
    effect on text readability cannot be scientifically measured?\r\n\r\nIMO, Ilene
    has made an aesthetic judgement on what constitutes readability, but aren't such
    preferences part of the craft of typography, which you believe may be objectively
    measured?"
  created: '2011-06-21 20:21:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So Bill, the selection of a particular cut of a typeface is \"merely\" aesthetic,
    and has no effect on readability?\r\n\r\nNo. Incidentally, Strizver doesn't use
    the term readability, but \"character recognition\". \r\n\r\n>Are you saying that
    the widened crossbars are aesthetic, not craft, because their effect on text readability
    cannot be scientifically measured?\r\n\r\nNot at all. \r\n\r\nWhat can't be measured
    now, and may well be measured soon are two different things. And there are important
    things that may never be measured. What of readability can be measured and not
    is a work in progress in reading science. \r\n\r\nYou have insisted here on typophile
    that a science of readability, which would include measures of readability, is
    IMPOSSIBLE. \r\n\r\nMy TypeCon talk will show the science of readability already
    exists, and has begun to have interesting results, though a lot of progress is
    yet to be made.\r\n\r\nWhether widened crossbars in themselves help readability
    I doubt, but they may in some contexts; it's not a settled issue. \r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear, I also don't think that readability always trumps aesthetics. Quite
    often in display type maximum readability should be sacrificed to aesthetic goals.
    Also there are, of course, practical considerations other than ease of reading
    of continuous text involved in designing a page and a document\u2014including
    hierarchy of ideas, ease of navigation for the reader, and more.    "
  created: '2011-06-21 21:44:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Nick: I am trying to contact the first authour as we speak. In the meantime,
    if it helps:. \r\n\r\n<em>Reading material for the Standard Two group was taken
    from Blanckenberg and Ferreira Blanckenberg [14, pp. 47\u201353], a discontinued
    school reading book for Standard Two. A discontinued school reader for Standard
    Four by the same authors provided the reading material for the Standard Four group
    [15, pp. 73\u201377]. Times Roman 13 point was used for the roman typeface and
    Helvetica 12 point for the sans serif typeface in this experiment. Type size,
    weight, line and letter spacing of the two faces were matched closely by means
    of computer software. The heights of the lower case letter x of Helvetica and
    Times Roman were respectively 2.30 mm and 2.25 mm. The height of the Times Roman
    capitals was 3.3 mm, and those of Helvetica 3.0 mm. Line spacing for both typefaces
    was 5.15 mm. The text was set flush left with a maximum line length of 33.75 picas.
    The pre-test consisted of 536 words and 47 lines and the post-test of 549 words
    and 45 lines.</em>"
  created: '2011-06-22 03:07:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What of readability can be measured and not is a work in progress in
    reading science \u2026 I also don't think that readability always trumps aesthetics.
    </em>\r\n\r\nYou're marginalizing aesthetics.\r\n(i.e. anything that can't be
    measured isn't readability but aesthetics.)\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nChristopher, I was
    only wondering which cut rhetorically, didn't really need to know!\r\nIMO proprietary
    names of products shouldn't be used in serious research. "
  created: '2011-06-22 16:13:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, I don't think Bill defined aesthetics as 'anything that can't be measured',
    and you had to delete a large amount of intervening text to stick those two statements
    side-by-side. In his final paragraph, Bill is talking about design decisions and
    how functional readability may be legitimately and knowingly reduced for aesthetic
    effect in some circumstances. He doesn't suggest anywhere that aesthetics is 'what's
    left over when you can't measure any more'; rather, he is quite reasonably pointing
    out that the visual beauty of a text is independent of its readability. <a href="http://www.freewebs.com/kakayicalligraphy/foto%202.jpg">That
    seems to me uncontroversial</a>. Nor is it the case that the aesthetics of typography
    cannot be measured, but it must be measured in ways that differ from how we might
    measure readability, e.g. presenting different settings of the same text to people
    and recording which one they prefer to read, i.e. finding ways to quantify subjective
    responses to the visual appearance of text before reading.
  created: '2011-06-22 16:56:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There is far more than enough controversy about how accurate or meaningful
    readability tests are.  If we try to measure aesthetics, we are really in for
    some crazy stuff ;-)
  created: '2011-06-22 18:48:19'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "> Is Typography a science?\r\n\r\nyes and no.\r\n\r\nSame answer applies
    the the question \"Is Type design an art?\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 00:25:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: A better question is, "Does it matter?"  What would you do differently if
    it was than if it wasn't?
  created: '2011-06-23 01:05:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>What would you do differently if it was than if it wasn't?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think the question of whether typography is or could be a science is less interesting
    than the question of the potential impact of science on practice. What about this
    question: if compelling scientific evidence suggested that readability would benefit
    from doing something that was contrary to the established canons of text typography,
    would you do it?"
  created: '2011-06-23 02:34:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nThat is a far better question! and put better than mine.  For me,
    the problem is \"what constitutes scientific evidence\"?  Just because scientists
    have done a study and post their results does not mean that their conclusion is
    a direct correlation of what the test measured.  My biggest concern is the quantum
    leap between measuring saccade count and inferring something more about it that
    what it shows.\r\n\r\nIf I were convinced that something that came out of a number
    of scientific studies countered traditional typographic practice, I surely would
    value that over tradition.  That being said, I don't particularly follow standard
    typographic tradition anyway.  Not that I have anything against it, it just does
    not interest me since there are thousands who already take that road and one more
    won't be of much value."
  created: '2011-06-23 02:56:06'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: Everything can be measured by Survey Methodology
  created: '2011-06-23 03:22:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">anything that can't be measured isn't readability but aesthetics.\r\n\r\nNick,
    I am getting the feeling that you identify science with positivism\u2014which
    includes such views as: if you can't measure it, it's meaningless or it's unimportant
    or it's purely subjective. And you think when I advocate the value of science
    I'm advocating positivism. But science is not positivism, and I'm not a positivist.
    And, as John said, I certainly don't believe the above idea that you seem to think
    I believe.\r\n\r\nFor starters, I think there is a lot about readability that
    we can't yet measure, but will be able to in the not too distant future.  \r\n\r\nI
    think the problem with most past legibility research is, to be blunt, that it
    has been poor science. If it had been good science, the results would have been
    much more compelling, and those working with type would have been more convinced
    of its value, and would be guided by its results. Most people dealing with type
    professionally haven't been much impressed by has come from scientific researchers
    on legibility, and I think their skepticism has been largely justified. \r\n\r\nI
    wasn't intending to beat my drum again, but at TypeCon I will tell a lost story
    about readability, and some outstanding work on it. I think the whole story, which
    I only learned of in the past few months, will make a lot clearer what we have
    been going round and round about over the years here on Typophile, not very fruitfully.
    I don't mean that it resolves all the problems, but it does clarify a lot. "
  created: '2011-06-23 03:56:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\u2026<em>a lost story about readability, and some outstanding work on it<em>\u2026\r\n\r\nBill
    has generously given me a bit of an inside track on this.\r\n\r\nWhat he's found
    is highly relevant, historically regrettable, and explains a lot about where we
    are on these issues today."
  created: '2011-06-23 15:56:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, this has nothing to do with positivism or philosophy.\r\n\r\nMy posts
    have never been against science, I have used my knowledge of typography to debunk
    bad science, under which I include the idea that \"readability\" can be measured
    with regard to anything other than a specific document \u2014 certainly not to
    the individual constituent elements such as x-height, weight, leading, line length,
    and typeface choice, in any manner that will be prescriptive to typographers.
    A template is the kiss of death*.\r\n\r\nJust because some scientists think they
    are conducting useful experiments doesn't mean that what they're doing is any
    better than phrenology or graphology.\r\n\r\nI made a criticism of what you wrote
    in this post, in particular your definition of aesthetics and readability as two
    non-overlapping concepts, when you said, \"I also don't think that readability
    always trumps aesthetics.\"\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, aesthetics, courtesy of the
    skill and good taste that a practising typographer has acquired and embedded in
    a document, is an important part of readability. When I decide on the width of
    a sidebearing by dragging it until it looks just right, this is an aesthetic decision
    which I believe contributes to the readability of text which may be set with the
    font. \r\n\r\nWhen I choose a particular combination of typeface, size, line length,
    and page layout for a particular text, by playing around in InDesign or Quark
    until it looks just right on the monitor, and printing it out on a laser printer,
    and trying to imagine the final job offset on a particular paper stock, I am using
    my aesthetic judgement to set values which may subsequently be measured.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think this issue is much different than the way people have been trying
    to create scientific advertising for over 100 years, with only limited success.
    If creating predictably readable (and actionable) documents has met with such
    limited success there, why should these efforts by any different? These new experiments
    don't exist in a vacuum, but have that baggage to deal with.\r\n\r\nTo clarify:
    reading research, good; readability research, bad.\r\n\r\n*The most conventional,
    template-friendly area of typography is the book. So it's it's no surprise that
    this is the area (continuous reading of immersive text) where scientific studies
    are considered to have the most relevance. However, how is that engaged by readability
    studies that use, for instance, the RSVP method?!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 16:19:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, agree that readability and aesthetics aesthetics overlap, and never
    indicated otherwise. But they aren't the same, and sometimes, such as in a wedding
    invitation, or a monogram, an elaborate script that is not very readable may be
    just the thing aesthetically. And even in running text, throwing in italics, which
    are slightly less readable, serves the larger purpose of slowing down the reader,
    to indicate that this point is more important.    \r\n\r\n>reading research, good;
    readability research, bad.\r\n\r\nWell, you're wrong, and I suspect your error
    is because you think of such research in the mold of some bad research that's
    been done. But as I keep saying and you keep not believing, there is more to science
    than that. \r\n\r\nBut I take this up later after I've discussed this all at TypeCon.
    \r\n\r\nYou remind me of the guy in The Princess Bride who keeps saying \"Inconceivable!\"
    \r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 17:10:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But they aren't the same, and sometimes, such as in a wedding invitation,
    or a monogram, an elaborate script that is not very readable may be just the thing
    aesthetically.</em>\r\n\r\nI disagree. The fancy script for a wedding invitation
    is used because it is more readable in that context.\r\n\r\n<em>Well, you're wrong,
    and I suspect your error is because you think of such research in the mold of
    some bad research that's been done.</em>\r\n\r\nThere you go again, with the false
    interpretations.\r\nI'm right, because, as I keep saying, only the readability
    of documents can be measured\u2014it's impossible to isolate the readability of
    individual typographic parameters and use such indices to predict the readability
    of future documents.\r\n\r\nEven if one predicts the readability of a template,
    that will fail with diminishing returns, because people get bored, culture changes.\r\n\r\nDon't
    you recall the thread where I showed some pages from a Paul Rand book, with the
    body text set in Univers Bold?\r\n\r\n<em>You remind me of the guy in The Princess
    Bride who keeps saying \"Inconceivable!\"</em>\r\n\r\nI remind me of the guy in
    Shakespeare in Love who keeps saying \"It's a Mystery!\""
  created: '2011-06-23 18:14:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You contradict yourself.</em>\r\n\r\nVery well.\r\nHowever, isn't it
    true that the \"science\" of readability, as practised, claims to be somewhat
    more than it is, and almost invariably draws deductions that pertain to more than
    the specific documents tested?\r\n\r\nYour myopia analogy is so BAD I won't even
    begin to address it.\r\n\r\nHow do you explain the readability of the Paul Rand
    book set in Univers Bold?\r\nReadability theory says that a bold sans serif is
    not suitable for the text of a book, such things should never be. \r\nBut the
    body text in question is not just \"aesthetic\", it is functionally readable.\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that a scientifically valid debunking?\u2014the example which disproves carrying
    more weight than any which may confirm."
  created: '2011-06-23 19:34:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, name-calling and haughty dismissal is a poor excuse for argument. If
    you can't answer my myopia analogy, admit it; otherwise show me what's wrong with
    it. \r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 19:54:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, if the readability of documents can be measured, then there can be
    a science of readability, which you deny. You contradict yourself. \r\n\r\n>it's
    impossible to isolate the readability of individual typographic parameters and
    use such indices to predict the readability of future documents.\r\n\r\nThree
    factors involved in myopia are the shape of the eyeball, of the cornea, and the
    flexibility of the lens. If the eyeball is too long front to back, then one cannot
    focus at a distance as well. If the lens becomes too rigid, as in presbyopia,
    then also the lens cannot be adjusted as much for distance vs close work. And
    the shape of the cornea can cause myopia. \r\n\r\nSo by your reasoning, even though
    we can measure whether individual eyes suffer from myopia, it is IMPOSSIBLE to
    measure the separate factors of eyeball shape, cornea shape and the lens's ability
    to adjust, right? And to predict the total amount of myopia on the basis of those
    three factors, and a knowledge of their complex but determinate interaction, is
    IMPOSSIBLE. That's beyond the realm of science, IMPOSSIBLE, right?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 19:55:49'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Oh, joy, f5g joy... they're talking east and west again...
  created: '2011-06-23 20:56:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The fancy script for a wedding invitation is used because it is
    more readable in that context.</em>\r\n\r\nIs it also more legible in that context?"
  created: '2011-06-24 01:49:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The context for a wedding invitation is quite different than for urgent medical
    instructions.  The invitation is meant to be read slowly and reread and commented
    on.  The people getting it in most cases already know about the wedding.  What
    is used on the invitation is more a product of the bride and grooms personal whimsey.  Why
    would anyone spend research grant money to test ledgi[-readi-know-get-the-point]-ibilty
    for a wedding invitation?  There are a few things that require quick reading and
    understanding.  Most of these are product graphics on equipment that can cause
    harm if not used correctly (anything from a jetliner control panel or nuclear
    reactor to medical equipment.  In those cases, the least problematic decision
    is the typeface.  All of the placement and proximity issues as well as most other
    human factors issues are the real issue.  If you want to spend time doing something
    valuable,test air traffic control systems for error prone configurations and let
    the mother of the bride duke it out with the grooms mother for rights to pick
    wedding invitations.  Wedding party families won't listen to you anyway.
  created: '2011-06-24 05:10:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Readability in the sense used in books on type and typography means ease
    of reading extended text. The idea that it is easy to read an elaborate wedding
    script in extended text is ridiculous. \r\n\r\nLegibility has been used with many
    different meanings. One is ease of deciphering what letters are on the page or
    screen. Another has to do with speed of reading extended text. \r\n\r\nWhatever
    way you slice it, readable or legible, wedding scripts are not designed to maximize
    these qualities that are desirable for extended text. \r\n\r\nAs Chris writes,
    with the wedding invitation, you are meant to linger over the names of the bride
    and groom, and think about the wedding as something beautiful and significant.
    The ornate scripts can convey this. Legibility or readability aren't so important."
  created: '2011-06-24 14:50:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Readability in the sense used in books on type and typography means ease
    of reading extended text.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I haven't done a literature survey,
    but that sounds a bit simplistic.\r\n\r\nIn <em>Letters of Credit</em> Walter
    Tracy uses the word \"comfort\" rather than ease. Not quite the same thing.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't done the historiography, but I'm under the impression that \"readability\"
    emerged with a bifurcation of the meaning of \"legibility\" (originally used,
    for instance, in Linotype's Legibility Series of the 1920s, with much of the meaning
    now attributed to readability), the distinction becoming necessary when typographers
    realized that even the most easily decipherable of types could be made unreadable
    (in the sense of hyperbole) by poor typography.\r\n\r\nMention of readability
    in type books etc. is generally qualified against legibility, and described with
    an emphasis on the typographic qualities of page layout, not so much on the speed
    of reading book text.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-06-25 07:33:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, are you paying attention? I know the story and will be telling it at
    TypeCon in a few weeks. And you''ve got it wrong. Your being so "impossible" about
    this has been a force pushing me to discover the real and it turns out wonderful
    story, so I have to thank you. '
  created: '2011-06-25 13:11:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Nick, wouldn't you say the 'typographic qualities of page layout' are a means
    of improving readability \u2014 rather than an end in themselves (aesthetics aside)?"
  created: '2011-06-25 13:31:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you're missing a catchy title for your Real Lost Story of Readability.\r\nMight
    I suggest <em>The Bo Doni Code</em>?"
  created: '2011-06-25 16:10:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The title is [[http://www.typecon.com/program|The Great Readability Scandal]].\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-25 16:35:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nice!\r\n\r\nI wasn't around in the 1930s.\r\n\r\nHowever, I was a working
    typographer\u2014art directing advertising and marketing from 1976 on.\r\nWhen
    scientists and academic researchers tell me that things were not what I thought
    they were, that I've got it all wrong and wasn't doing what I thought I was doing,
    or doing it blindly for the wrong reasons, and they know better, then I view their
    rewriting of my reality with extreme skepticism.\r\n\r\nI've read a lot of type
    and design books, and my overwhelming impression is that the term readability
    has been used in tandem with legibility as a twin concept, referring to layout
    qualities, with legibility meaning the decipherability of glyphs. As such, I have
    never thought of readability as \"ease of reading\", and from the perspective
    of someone who wants the ad copy I'm setting to be read down to the final call
    to action, I have always considered readability to be have a certain amount of
    push (at my discretion), rather than being a passive quality of a block of text
    from a type specimen, that can be dialed up.\r\n\r\n<em>Nick, wouldn't you say
    the 'typographic qualities of page layout' are a means of improving readability
    \u2014 rather than an end in themselves (aesthetics aside)?</em>\r\n\r\nI would,
    and I also believe that's been the consensus among typographers for many years
    (as we have Lost the Real Story, according to Bill!)"
  created: '2011-06-25 17:23:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\nHow long were you Tinkering with that title? ;-)\r\n\r\nToo
    bad I will miss your presentation.  I hope your talk will be made available to
    the rest of us who can't make it--perhaps a PDF?\r\n\r\nChris"
  created: '2011-06-25 17:26:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '*grmbl* Seems to me you have too many terms and no concensus on what they
    mean, anyway. Titanic, ahoy...'
  created: '2011-06-30 19:38:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "In science-land, for there to be any meaningful dialogue, you have to <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operational_definition\"> operationalize your
    definitions</a>. This is not a formal declaration of the meaning of the words
    typography or science, but saying what <em>you</em> mean when you use those words
    in your paper so there is no miscommunication. Without this\u2026\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Merry_4250.jpg]\r\nFigure
    1: Around and around and around we go.\r\n\r\nStudying the effects of typographic
    design (independent variables such as font, size, colour &c.) on human performance
    (dependent variables such as reading comprehension, visual search, memory, eye
    movements &c.) has been a science more than a century. Questioning the quality
    of the work is another matter, but that can be said for field. Even fonts."
  created: '2011-07-01 03:23:23'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "science is a science.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2011-07-01 04:39:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Christopher, I don't agree that operational definitions are necessary, and
    they can be misleading and harmful. I don't want to get too deep into the weeds
    here on philosophy of science, but Bridgeman's hope that operational definitions
    are a magic wand to clear up terminology in science turned out not to work.   \r\n\r\nSuch
    scientific variables as force, mass and time do not have operational definitions.
    They are defined implicitly as part of testable theories, and that, in my view
    is the best way to do it. Going round and round is the result of getting hung
    up on definitional matters, instead of trying to get good theories to understand
    and explain our experience. What are missing is not better definitions, but better
    theories. \r\n\r\nBy the way, the idea of \"construct validity\" of a term as
    explained by Donald Campbell provides an alternative to operational definitions.
    It is widely accepted in social psychology, I believe. I am not totally happy
    with Campbell's approach, but it shows how you have to depart of operational definitions. "
  created: '2011-07-03 00:51:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Typographic variables such as point size and leading are numerical, and categories
    such as serif and sans appear homogenous and distinct to non-typographers, giving
    the impression that typography is a good candidate for physical science where
    instrumental functions can be precisely measured, as with Bill's earlier example
    of the eyeball. But this is deceptive.\r\n\r\nWhere would Karl Popper have drawn
    the line?\r\n\r\nI think he would have concluded that any theory that would be
    central to a science of typography, concerning such things as serifs vs. sans,
    line length, leading, or x-height, is not falsifiable, and therefore a science
    of typography is not possible.\r\n\r\nFor example, a serif-superiority theory
    that attempted to disprove the null hypothesis, \"Serif and sans serif fonts are
    equally readable\" would run into serious statistical difficulties of acquiring
    a random sample meaningful enough to enable falsification, beginning with the
    subjective categorization of candidate fonts. Try the keywords \"serif\" and \"sans\"
    at MyFonts, almost 10,000 fonts, and see what comes up.\r\n\r\nAt the moment,
    reading researchers don't even use randomized font samples. Without random sampling,
    if an experiment favors Times over Helvetica, that's all it's doing, not saying
    anything about serifs vs. sans. Formulating general theories about typography
    but only testing the usual suspects can't be good science. \r\n\r\nBut it's not
    just the fonts\u2014there are other typographic strata that affect readability:
    \r\n* layout\r\n* font size\r\n* leading\r\n* line length\r\n* paper stock\r\n*
    printing method\r\n* digital device\r\n* platform\r\n* browser\r\n* font format\r\n*
    hinting\r\n* reader demographic\r\n* typographer\r\n* text content\r\n\r\nGiven
    the current narrowly defined methods used, it's a huge jump to extrapolate from
    laboratory to general usage, too big, in practice, for science. Bear in mind that
    the target is moving, too, with new technology. \r\n\r\nIt would be possible to
    come up with a few standard settings, and index the readability of certain fonts
    in those settings, for specific output devices and reader demographics. Would
    that be science? \r\n\r\nIs my criticism\u2014that falsifiability is in practice,
    impossible\u2014valid? "
  created: '2011-07-03 09:59:07'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: '+1'
  created: '2011-07-03 10:54:43'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "But it's not just the fonts\u2014there are other typographic strata that
    affect readability:\r\n* layout\r\n* font size\r\n* leading\r\n* line length\r\n*
    paper stock\r\n* printing method\r\n* digital device\r\n* platform\r\n* browser\r\n*
    font format\r\n* hinting\r\n* reader demographic\r\n* typographer\r\n* text content\r\n\r\nWow,
    thats Good!\r\nreader demographic is part of Social Science. :P\r\nTypography
    and Human life. Social typography!"
  created: '2011-07-03 15:06:26'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: 'PS: I''m Social Science student'
  created: '2011-07-03 15:40:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is my criticism\u2014that falsifiability is in practice, impossible\u2014valid?\r\n\r\nNo.
    \r\n\r\nI'm not sure, but I think you are making the mistake of thinking that
    because *explaining everything* in a specific field is unlikely or impossible,
    that *explaining some things* in a testable way is impossible.\r\n\r\nFor example,
    it is still impossible to completely explain the motion of the planets using Newton's
    theory. The interactions between the planets\u2014the \"many body problem\"\u2014has
    not been solved. But it is still possible to test Newton's theory satisfactorily
    in less complex circumstances.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, I don't expect anybody will explain
    *everything* about typography and the brain, but I do think there will be testable
    theories of *some things*, and in fact already are.   \r\n\r\nI'll go into this
    with examples after TypeCon.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 22:11:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don't expect anybody will explain *everything* about typography and
    the brain, but I do think there will be testable theories, and in fact already
    are.</em>\r\n\r\nAnything can be tested and theories corroborated, but the issue
    I've raised is falsifiability, not *explaining things*.\r\n\r\nTypography is not
    a \"many body problem\".\r\n\r\nWe're not just dealing with the mechanical performance
    of a physical object such as an eyeball or a planet, but with a far more complicated
    process.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I look forward to discussing this further after TypeCon.\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 22:44:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Anything can be tested\r\n\r\nTestability and falsifiability are the same
    thing. You can conceive of observable circumstances that could contradict the
    theory. The idea is that the theory is sufficiently precise to exclude some possibilities.
    When theories are sufficiently vague, like most of astrology, you can't test them.
    \"Next week you will face important opportunities.\""
  created: '2011-07-04 00:13:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Testability and falsifiability are the same thing.</em>\r\n\r\nUnless
    you're an empiricist, in which case you would be testing for verifiability.\r\n
    \r\n<em>When theories are sufficiently vague, like most of astrology, you can't
    test them.</em>\r\n\r\nAstrological theory is quite precise, with regards to the
    calendar.\r\nHowever, I will hold off comparing typographic theory to astrology
    until you reveal your \"testable theories\"!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 01:42:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: As Bill skillfully drums up the buzz for his forthcoming presentation at TypeCon
    in New Orleans, the Sun sets on another meeting of the minds on Typophile, film
    at 11:00 [after next week] ;-)
  created: '2011-07-04 01:56:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: So that's why there's only half a head on Shinn's avatar - to hide the Sun's
    imprint.
  created: '2011-07-04 13:01:30'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Gunarta\r\n\r\nTo respond to the initial post. I've always thought grasp
    of typography was something like epiphany. And that it can't be taught. Our exemplars
    are historic, and founded in artistic/craft concerns. Science? Like, who are the
    stellar exemplars of the typographic scientific method?\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2011-07-05 05:20:16'
- author:
    name: rickwtexas
  body: 'Typography is a culinary science for the eye. Using typeface shapes, colours,
    and combinations of complimentary and opposing styles all in order to make something
    that is pleasing to the eye and is easily consumed and enjoyed.... no, I don''t
    cook a lot. '
  created: '2011-07-05 16:17:52'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI lean towards an understanding that readability is something
    else than legibility.\r\n\r\nReadability: wether to be read or not to read.\r\n\r\nLegibility:
    How easy/difficult reading is.\r\n\r\n\u2013 ?\r\n\r\nIn German this would be
    Lesbarkeit vs. Leserlichkeit."
  created: '2011-07-11 18:08:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Moved by the author to a [[http://typophile.com/node/83684|new thread]].
  created: '2011-07-11 18:11:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Andreas, I decided this might be better in a new thread, so I started one
    [[http://typophile.com/node/83684|here]]. \r\n\r\nYour question is a good one.
    Would you mind re-posting it to the new thread?"
  created: '2011-07-11 18:14:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Moved by the author to a new thread.\"\r\n\r\nI keep getting \"Access Denied\"
    message when I try to see the thread."
  created: '2011-07-11 18:29:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, it seems that Typophile is now holding new forum topics until they
    are checked for spam. Hopefully an admin will get to it and it will be up soon. '
  created: '2011-07-11 18:46:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The distinction entered into the English of type people\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIs
    there any evidence for this in trade publications, such as Spencer's <em>Typographica</em>
    or the <em>Penrose Annual</em>?"
  created: '2011-07-11 19:09:33'
date: '2011-06-18 14:35:48'
title: Is Typography a science?

---
