---
author:
  name: evanbrog
  picture: 129873
body: "I am just generally curious about the use of the ampersand in the Spanish speaking
  world.\r\n\r\nI did see an old thread from '02 stating that both the ampersand and
  the \"y\" are used, for differing reasons having to do with taste and preference.\r\n\r\nBut
  what I am really wondering is whether there exists some hybrid of the y/et y/& that
  could speak bilingually. A Spanish/English ampersand.\r\n\r\nI have never seen it,
  though I don't read in Spanish. Chances are it does, but if it does not exist, please,
  someone with more talent than myself--I'd love to see it. It would be a good exercise
  in the spirit of collaboration between cultures.\r\n\r\nEvan"
comments:
- author:
    name: qiaofu543-spammer
  body: "<a href='http://www.intertype.net/node/23438'>wSSKGFm sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://www.intertype.net/node/23439'>eSpQkioMzD
    jDePibpHA zcidRHzdmOp KXtjEEHXfC sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://www.intertype.net/node/23440'>GyiiPAsxQnk
    oEZrQpset QxJXu IEku sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://www.intertype.net/node/23441'>NnEHw
    daXHgKuvjSP sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://www.intertype.net/node/23442'>XjjSkrnDb
    FDjE sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://accademiaienes.altervista.org/portale/?q=node/4439'>rqT
    bozBfs WaEU Gnbvu sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://accademiaienes.altervista.org/portale/?q=node/4440'>SoaOJxc
    UfaNACuwna UgRyYB vgEhaxIOq lHnCkrzXU sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://accademiaienes.altervista.org/portale/?q=node/4441'>dlaC
    FFsIXdhpb TPL sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://accademiaienes.altervista.org/portale/?q=node/4442'>mWMXLOvX
    NUHUCjzYk tTnuAFZrwzS eHxNaa VoNPx sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://accademiaienes.altervista.org/portale/?q=node/4443'>tbbO
    CTWTyyfD BNe CjPAaEv FHkaggNvaAw sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://con.fuci.us/node/287590'>qGdsRaYnVY
    KcdZkJuh vCQ BAmzRktb HtxMvCcgR sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://con.fuci.us/node/287589'>ndbWrClcy
    FIO fHXQlB sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://con.fuci.us/node/287585'>JuJpWkKMMr cAnxpLYJkE
    sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://con.fuci.us/node/287582'>oGAXAyyg sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://con.fuci.us/node/287584'>YgpLR
    Fqdfgj sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://alternativesic.org/?q=node/87765'>oUKR SAU
    sale</a>\r\n<a href='http://alternativesic.org/?q=node/87766'>mfP sale</a>\r\n<a
    href='http://alternativesic.org/?q=node/87768'>EMCRee HlWphBOHaD sale</a>\r\n<a
    href='http://alternativesic.org/?q=node/87771'>xAxSzmHWXzt JSmbKYDCKad Typ sale</a>"
  created: '2012-10-31 11:09:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice idea. Sounds like great Type Battle fodder!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-20 18:12:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hmm, let's see...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SpanishAmpersand_4929.jpg]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: tatianalancing-spammer
    body: "I think the article very original ideas.<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken</strong></a> One of President Barack Obama's latest campaign themes is
      trust \u2014 that he can be trusted and Republican nominee Mitt Romney can't.
      Thanks to his own words, we know that Obama can be trusted to put ideology ahead
      of commonsense economic goals to put people back to work.<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Outlet</strong></a> In an interview with the editorial board of the Des Moines
      Register, Obama was asked if he regretted his push to enact health-care overhaul
      legislation when he had huge Democratic majorities in Congress instead of emphasizing
      measures to fix the economy. &quot;Absolutely not,&quot; responded the president.
      <a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn Schneezauber</strong></a>
      Obama's remark to the Register editorial board \u2014 which later endorsed Romney,
      the first time the paper has backed a GOP nominee in four decades \u2014 shouldn't
      have come as a surprise. During the 2008 campaign,<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Store</strong></a> he didn't shrink from proclaiming an ideological goal even
      when the facts argued against it. During a debate, Obama said he advocated increasing
      the capital gains tax even when told lower rates produce more revenues by encouraging
      investments in the economy. Obama said higher taxes were a matter of fairness.
      Obama wanted the pie split up fairly even if his policy meant a smaller pie.<a
      href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-herren-c-1.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken Herren</strong></a> A smaller pie is exactly what the American family
      has ended up with after four years of his policies. Household income has fallen,
      and most of that came during the Obama recovery, the weakest in modern history.
      Economic growth,<a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-damen-c-2.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Jacken Damen</strong></a> as measured by Gross Domestic Product, has slowed
      and some experts worry the recovery may be stalling and headed back toward recession
      in 2013. So the issue of trust is a simple one. <a href=\"http://www.wellensteynjackenstore.com/wellensteyn-jacken-weste-c-3.html\"><strong>Wellensteyn
      Weste</strong></a> The record shows Obama can be trusted to deliver more of
      the same ideological agenda that has kept too many people out of work and eroded
      the American dream."
    created: '2012-10-30 14:34:41'
  created: '2011-06-20 19:09:57'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "It could be an amusing exercise. But \"y\", in Spanish, simply means \"and\".
    So why not, then, a truly international glyph, for both Latin and English speakers,
    which combine \"&\" and \"and\"?\r\nAnd one even more difficult, for us poor Italians:
    a merge between \"&\" and \"e\"."
  created: '2011-06-20 19:19:29'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Riccardo I am not sure if I follow.\r\n\r\nY in Spanish does stand for \"and.\"
    The ampersand \"&\" also stands for \"and\" in English. Are you saying you would
    like to see an ampersand that incorporated the letters a, n, and d? That seems
    somewhat unnecessary then--though that very redundant mark would sure be interesting
    to see. If not I think the true combination would be of the \"y\" and the \"&\".\r\n\r\nAs
    far as for Italians, the & does come out of Latin's \"et,\" which is why many
    ampersands still retain the shape of the et. So the e does exist in the ampersand
    currently.\r\n\r\nBendy, thanks for getting it going!"
  created: '2011-06-20 22:32:19'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I will try to clarify what I meant, since my sarcasm could\u2019ve made my
    point not clear enough.\r\n\r\n<cite>in the Spanish speaking world [\u2026] both
    the ampersand and the \"y\" are used, for differing reasons having to do with
    taste and preference</cite>\r\nSo it is also in the rest of the non-Spanish-speaking
    world. Except that they don\u2019t use \"y\", but whatever word means \"and\"
    in their language, English included (admittedly, in a Typophile\u2019s thread,
    maybe the same you cite, there is a report of & used sometimes in Turkey for \"versus\").\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    am really wondering is whether there exists some hybrid of the y/et y/& that could
    speak bilingually. A Spanish/English ampersand.</cite>\r\nThere\u2019s nothing
    English in the &, more than in any letter of the Latin alphabet (and, obviously,
    there\u2019s nothing inherently Spanish in the y). So, such hybrid would be between
    a Latin letter and a Latin ligature. \r\n\r\n<cite>Y in Spanish does stand for
    \"and.\" The ampersand \"&\" also stands for \"and\" in English. Are you saying
    you would like to see an ampersand that incorporated the letters a, n, and d?
    That seems somewhat unnecessary then--though that very redundant mark would sure
    be interesting to see.</cite> \r\nMy point is that it would be exactly as redundant
    and unnecessary as a y/& mark.\r\n\r\n<cite>the & does come out of Latin's \"et,\"
    [\u2026] So the e does exist in the ampersand currently.</cite>\r\nThat would
    be the challenge: making it distinct ;-)"
  created: '2011-06-21 00:05:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I have read more than one book with pictures of typewriter keyboard layouts
    in different lands. I do not recall ever seeing a symbol that was a stylized \"Y\"
    on a Spanish-language typewriter layout, either for Latin America or for Spain,
    used as a symbol for \"and\".\r\n\r\nIndeed, as noted in this thread, in Spanish,
    \"y\" is a word, just as \"a\" and \"I\" are words in English. Words that happen
    to be one letter long. In English, that wouldn't be a circumstance under which
    Y could function as a vowel, but Spanish orthography is different.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    as noted, this fact does make a typographical symbol which hybridizes the Spanish
    word for \"and\" with the ampersand, a stylized \"et\", a typographical symbol
    for \"and\", seem like a bizarre idea, rather than the natural idea it <em>would</em>
    be if, in fact, a Spanish-speaking area did have a distinctive typographical symbol
    for \"and\"."
  created: '2011-06-21 02:22:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's bizarre is not seeing the possibilities.\r\nHaving an ampersand that
    subtly hints at a \"y\"\r\n(without sabotaging its general use) would be a\r\nvery
    nice touch in a font focused on Spanish-\r\nspeaking countries (such as a font
    for a Spanish\r\nnewspaper).\r\n\r\nLook at the ampersand in Triplex-Italic. It's\r\npretty
    normal-looking, but it also quite nicely\r\nalludes to the \"E\"+\"t\". That's
    good design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 02:29:42'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Spanish used \"et\" but stopped using it around the same time it stopped
    using \"ca\" (modern \"porque\"), which, granted, was long before it stopped using
    \xDF.  Honestly part of the reason that a lot of ampersands to me stand out in
    Spanish is that you pretty much never see \"y\" capitalized and (almost always)
    the ampersand is at capital height.  Sticking out isn't necessary I think the
    right thing to do when it's a weak vowel that often is absorbed into the preceding
    or following letter.  Plus, it means the symbol gets multiple pronunciations depending
    on what comes after it: Fernando & Isabel (Fernando e Isabel) vs. David & Carla
    (David y Carla)."
  created: '2011-06-21 04:26:25'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "FWIW, ampersand is never used in Mexico, unless you are writing the name
    of a US company or something like that. When people see it, the chances are that
    it is read \u201Cand\u201D, not \u201Cy\u201D, because of the English influence.
    And they don\u2019t even know how to call it: they just say \u201Cthat commercial
    sign, you know, the one that you use to say \u2018and\u2019\u201D."
  created: '2011-06-21 04:27:31'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "I think another reason for not using the ampersand in Spanish is because
    in English you can use it instead of three letters (and = &), but in Spanish it
    doesn\u2019t mean any saving of space or effort (y = &)."
  created: '2011-06-21 04:39:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> chances are that it is read \u201Cand\u201D, not \u201Cy\u201D, because
    of the English influence.\r\n\r\nAll the more reason to hint at a \"y\"!  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    in Spanish it doesn\u2019t mean any saving of space or effort\r\n\r\nActually
    in English the ampersand isn't really used to save space, plus it <em>can</em>
    serve as more than an \"and\" - something it could also do in Spanish. We had
    a nice thread about that once - where is it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 05:11:09'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Actually in English the ampersand isn't really used to save space</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nIt isn't?"
  created: '2011-06-21 05:27:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not usually, at least not these days. Mostly I think people just like the
    way it looks/feels. I mean, if saving space were such a big deal wouldn't we have
    a short form of \"the\" for example?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 05:40:14'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> Mostly I think people just like the way it looks/feels.\r\n\r\nI agree.
    Still, I don\u2019t see any real advantage in using ampersand in Spanish. Sadly,
    it just looks alien to the language."
  created: '2011-06-21 06:39:27'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "I'm sure I have seen a Jan Tschichold layout (or that of another renowned
    typographer) employing & for the purpose of saving space. Not exactly \u201Cthese
    days\u201D but not archaic either."
  created: '2011-06-21 12:08:57'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Cristobal, is & not used to demonstrate a special relationship in Spanish,
    as in English?\r\n\r\n(I think I am paraphrasing Hrant here.)"
  created: '2011-06-21 12:13:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, here's that thread: http://typophile.com/node/12426\r\nAnd it reminded
    me of how I've used it in the past myself:\r\n\r\n\"The most obvious way that
    Latinization affects a non-Latin script is in the imposition of 'foreign' formal
    elements such as certain serif structures, stroke contrast & stress, modularity,
    etc.\"\r\n\r\n\"Letters made to look like animals or nuts & bolts are not uncommon.\"\r\n\r\n\"Because
    of its high level of modularity and reliance on the basic line & circle, Futura
    presents us with much more uniform \u2013therefore ambiguous\u2013 word shapes
    than Gill Sans.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 14:43:13'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "In specialized fields like screen writing credits, \"&\" and \"and\" assume
    different values:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Screenwriting_credit#Process"
  created: '2011-06-21 15:58:36'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "> I'm sure I have seen a Jan Tschichold layout (or that of another renowned
    typographer) employing & for the purpose of saving space\r\n\r\nEric Gill, [[http://books.google.com/books?id=44Yq6UplAbAC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false|<em>An
    Essay on Typography</em>]]?"
  created: '2011-06-21 17:04:19'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Eric Gill indeed, I've just found a description of it in Type <strong>&</strong>
    Typography.\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 17:08:30'
- author:
    name: Cristobal Henestrosa
    picture: 110674
  body: "<cite> > Cristobal, is & not used to demonstrate a special relationship in
    Spanish, as in English?\r\n\r\nNot at all. I don\u2019t remember any case, at
    least.\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t get me wrong. As a type designer interested in revivals,
    I love ampersands and I\u2019d love to use them when appropriate, but contemporary
    Spanish users don\u2019t think ampersands as belonging to their language. Admittedly,
    this can change at some point in the future, but it\u2019s not that easy."
  created: '2011-06-21 17:27:52'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: "Riccardo I don't believe the sarcasm was in good taste. Certainly I wouldn't
    assume to hear sarcasm in anyone's posts in response to query such as my own.\r\n\r\nAll
    in all this is a very enlightening thread, as I was hoping to gain more knowledge
    about the meaning of language by comparison.\r\n\r\nCristobal, that was very helpful.
    It sounds to me as if there could be some use for a mark as this, once the shock
    of \"otherness\" wears off. But you'll have that with anything new. As far as
    changing in the future, perhaps this is a start.\r\n\r\nI'd still love to see
    some more examples. If anyone in the vast Spanish-speaking world found it useful,
    that's more than enough reason to design for it. Don't you think?\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-21 21:53:11'
- author:
    name: DumbType
    picture: 121601
  body: "I must be missing something since I don't really\r\nsee the need for a 'bilingual'
    letterform in order\r\nto replace the Spanish 'y'(and 'e' when the next\r\nword
    begins with 'i') and the ampersand.\r\n\r\nJust remember the fate of esperanto.\r\n\r\nHowever
    I think it may be a good design exercise."
  created: '2011-06-23 16:17:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Remember, it still has to look like an ampersand first.\r\nThis is about
    subtlety.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 17:49:14'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<cite>it still has to look like an ampersand first</cite>\r\n\r\nWhich, itself,
    is arguably the most eclectic glyph there is, appearance-wise."
  created: '2011-06-23 18:36:07'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">it still has to look like an ampersand first\r\n\r\nHow about something
    like this? \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Yampersands_3605.jpg]"
  created: '2011-06-23 20:59:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You've just given me an idea: start with the Fleischmann-style \"y\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-23 22:13:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As there are other languages in which the word for \"and\" is one letter
    long, I thought of suggesting y + \u0438 + &, and, in fact, the \u0438 can even
    be made into a unifying design element...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amp_4_4367.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    am still dubious, as it would seem to only make sense if the ampersand was meaningful
    and used with some frequency in the languages in question. But there may be some
    bilingual display contexts where such a symbol might have some use..."
  created: '2011-06-23 23:27:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> And one even more difficult, for us poor Italians: a merge between \"&\"
    and \"e\".\r\n\r\nFrom a magazine ad for the Tiffany & Co. in Manhattan:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eand_4419.jpg]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-24 03:23:46'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "may be like this. the Y one. It is inspired by Hiragana. I edit Times New
    Roman y (italic) and edit it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hiraganaampersand_4585.png]"
  created: '2011-06-24 07:35:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Trying to improve on my compound symbol that also included the Russian word
    for \"and\", I obtained\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amp_5_3882.gif]\r\n\r\nand
    doing so revealed to me where a \"y\" was hidden in the ampersand, and so, for
    the original notion, I obtained\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amp_6_4181.gif]"
  created: '2011-06-24 12:45:15'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "It would be easier using the Tironian et! ;-)\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/12521"
  created: '2011-07-03 10:18:09'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Yeah, it's funny how the & is now perceived in Spain and Latin Amercia as
    an English glyph when it's also natural and correct in Spanish. A simple and Spanish
    friendly variation of & could be achieved by placing the Y's fork on the tail
    of the ampersand by separating the leg from the upper bowl.
  created: '2012-10-30 21:17:24'
- author:
    name: evanbrog
    picture: 129873
  body: 'I''ve just come back to this. I almost imagine an international company with
    a Mexican partner and American partner thriving in the border states, where everyone
    knew here it was xxx AND xxx, though on the other side of the border everyone
    said xxx Y xxx. It''s usage would be very circumstantial, I like the possibilities.
    Anyways, this was fun to read through once more. '
  created: '2013-07-01 22:52:30'
date: '2011-06-20 17:59:14'
title: Spanish Ampersand

---
