---
author:
  name: SeaDream
body: "Hello,  I'm new to this forum and am rather uncertain about a specific issue:\r\n\r\nI
  love beautiful objects and designs, and would like to feel  I can choose the fonts
  for the website I'm about to create ( my second  WYSIWYG site )  with regard to
  how they fit my overall design and concept.\r\n\r\nBut I keep seeing 'Websafe Fonts'
  in the list of fonts and am worried that if I stray too far and often from the 'safe'
  ones, my site will end up in chaos if it doesn't open properly, particularly on
  Windows PC's. \r\n\r\nI've heard that changing Titles etc to graphic items to make
  sure they look as intended makes the site open more slowly as well as then blocking
  being found by the search engines.\r\n\r\nI'm on a mac, intending to use Freeway
  to create my site. THe first one was made in iWeb and I'm ready to 'go further'
  now.\r\n\r\nI've heard about using Typekit as one means to overcome this situation,
  but don't know if this is a good solution. \r\n\r\nI've spent the last few hours
  absorbing much info from sites of Web Designers and having seen so many beautiful
  and unusual fonts, it occurred to me that it can't be so bad to use these !\r\n\r\nI'd
  be really grateful for advice on this issue - being a 'learning-by-doing' person
  without technical know-how in this area.\r\n\r\nMany thanks,  Kay."
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Kay, Typekit, Webink, Fontspring etc. are all offering web font solutions
    that are relatively easy to implement. In facts almost all font sellers and foundries
    are offering web fonts as of now. Since you mentioned you''re on a Mac most of
    them will look great to you, but you still have to do some homework. The problem
    that a lot of designers overlook is how these fonts look on machines running Windows
    XP. '
  created: '2011-06-25 10:58:47'
- author:
    name: Arjun
    picture: 114584
  body: "Hi Kay,\r\n\r\nI suggest you look at the Google Web Font API here - http://link.io/e\r\n\r\nThis
    is in my experience one of the best font api's on the internet and is quite easy
    to use. To use a font you like all you need to do is insert a tag into the <head>
    section of your webpage. A javascript initializes and brings in the font imediately
    from the web. You will need to have the font installed on your local system if
    you are developing from your local machine or you would need to be connected to
    the net.\r\n\r\nMost of the web fonts are free and you should be able to download
    and install them on your local machine.\r\n\r\nI think this API is compatable
    with Internet Explorer 6 (Default on Win XP) which is what I gather Frank had
    raised concerns about.\r\n\r\nHope I helped!"
  created: '2011-06-25 14:29:50'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You misunderstand me. I'm talking about most fonts looking like crap on Win
    XP because a lot of type designers don't bother to test their fonts properly.
    The Google Web Font API is nice but it can't - and doesn't - help XP's font rendering.
  created: '2011-06-25 15:17:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And it's pretty ridiculous how so many designers\r\nhave started ignoring
    the bulk of their users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-06-25 16:31:06'
- author:
    name: Arjun
    picture: 114584
  body: "Oh. I apologise. \r\n\r\nI thought you were talking about IE6 and its *ahem*
    features. But thats another story. ;)"
  created: '2011-06-25 17:05:47'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Not just XP. Larger sizes under ClearType look pretty awful too, and that'd
    be XP w/ installed IE7 or MS Office, or Vista/Win7.
  created: '2011-06-30 05:49:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's the web designer's responsibility to make sure that the fonts chosen
    for a web site work well in the site design, on different browsers.\r\n\r\nMany
    typefaces originally designed for print, and properly hinted with alignment zones
    and stem width values, nonetheless look like crap on screen.\r\n\r\nHowever, others
    only look like crap some of the time.\r\n\r\nAnd there are others, where only
    certain weights look like crap, and other weights are just fine.\r\n\r\nSo web
    font distributors generally operate under the \"caveat emptor\" principle, giving
    their customers every option, but also giving them the ability to see how each
    font will be rendered in different environments.\r\n\r\nThe situation can be compared
    with print design, where it's the typographer's responsibility to, for instance,
    not use a hairline weight sans serif at small size.\r\n\r\nAs for the notion of
    \"websafe\" \u2014 this has nothing to do with how a site opens and loads.\r\nDon't
    be scared to beat your own path, despite the extra effort required.\r\n\r\nWith
    great power comes great responsibility :-)"
  created: '2011-06-30 18:27:38'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "> Many typefaces ... nonetheless look like crap on screen\r\n\r\n> So web
    font distributors ... giving their customers every option\r\n\r\nSo <em>effectively</em>
    web font distributors sell lots of fonts that look like crap all the time. And
    they know that. And yet they still sell them. \r\n\r\nDo tell me how can this
    look anything but a disingenuous money grab?"
  created: '2011-07-03 17:22:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, if there are enough suckers buying something...\r\n\r\nI've started
    to think that the problem is too many web designers too anxious to use the fonts
    they want end up looking the other way when it comes to how their stuff looks
    on the average computer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 17:50:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"I've started to think that the problem is too many web designers
    too anxious to use the fonts they want end up looking the other way when it comes
    to how their stuff looks on the average computer.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, that happens.
    It doesn't help that (1) many work on Macs and (2) many of them are nowhere near
    as educated about webfonts rendering than we'd hope, so I think many aren't even
    very aware that they'd need to check how a font performs under Windows. Many probably
    don't even check their stuff under Windows until when they do cross-browser testing,
    which might then also be too late to change the fonts if there is in fact a problem.\r\n\r\nRe:
    \xABaverage computer\xBB though, I'm a big proponent of linking the decision whether
    to use webfonts (and if yes, which ones at what kinds of sizes) to the \u2013
    prospective or, if possible, actual \u2013 access statistics of the website in
    question. In some audiences the XP share is already so low that ignoring it wouldn't
    be more evil than, say, all the software that ignored the Mac back before it became
    Cool."
  created: '2011-07-03 20:23:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Then I guess most graphic designers suck. Because design by definition is\r\ndone
    for other people - you can't ignore them and call yourself a designer.\r\n\r\n>
    .... all the software that ignored the Mac back before it became Cool.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm sure you agree that revenge is not a good design parameter either!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nCertainly
    the nature of the site being designed helps narrow down how to design it.\r\nBut
    exactly what kind of site can assume that XP users are less than, let's say 15%?\r\n\r\nNow,
    let's think about sites that sell fonts: sure the person buying the fonts\r\nis
    extremely likely to see the webfonts nicely... But that person will be using\r\nthose
    fonts to make sites that are mostly for \"average\" users!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 20:36:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do tell me how can this look anything but a disingenuous money grab?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    typography, a discipline in which many fonts have specialized functionality.\r\nDon't
    you consider it your responsibility as a typographer to choose the right font
    for the job at hand?\r\nIsn't that a responsibility which you've embraced?\r\n\r\nCertainly
    it's not disingenuous if the distributor posts samples of how each font renders
    in different environments, as MyFonts does.\r\n\r\nHow would you suggest a distributor
    go about vetting its suppliers' fonts for web appearance?\r\nWould it be a requirement
    that every weight of every typeface render well in every Windows environment?\r\nThat's
    unrealistic.\r\n\r\nSurely it's the web designer's job to make the judgement call,
    based on the size of the font that will be used, and knowledge of who the site's
    readers will be and what browsers they will be using."
  created: '2011-07-03 23:16:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nobody should expect everything to be covered.\r\nBut the big elephant in
    the room is naked.\r\n\r\nAlso, it's not ethical to sell something you know doesn't
    do the job.\r\n\r\nRelated: http://typophile.com/node/82787\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 23:25:56'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Hmph. A stock Lincoln Continental won't cross the Rubicon Trail.
  created: '2011-07-03 23:36:05'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Nick, your main argument is poor. Sure, a display cut might not work well
    as text, but it will still work. Webfonts on XP <em>doesn\u2019t</em> work, unless
    you tell* them to. I have much more respect for those who spent some time fine-tuning
    their product before jumping on the bandwagon. \r\n\r\n* Hinting\r\n\r\nThe single
    biggest issue, IMO, is the lacking documentation of the hinting tools."
  created: '2011-07-03 23:44:15'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Many of us web developers are just weary and tired and really just don't
    give a crap about XP/IE 8 and lower. \r\n\r\nWeb design isn't about giving everyone
    an equal experience. It's about recommending a particular experience, adjusting
    it as needed for all sorts of variables (browsers, OSes, user preferences, devices,
    screen sizes, etc, etc.)\r\n\r\nI can't blame type designers for not magically
    making all their fonts work on a 10 year old operating system running decade old
    web browsers. \r\n\r\nI can't blame the web hosting services for not magically
    getting things to work either.\r\n\r\nAnd I can't blame web designers who have
    decided it's time to move forward even if a few folks get a slightly degraded
    experience.\r\n\r\nIf it really matters to your particular web site's demographic,
    then don't embed CSS fonts. Or, at least, don't embed them for XP/IE users for
    now. Wait a few more years. "
  created: '2011-07-04 00:18:42'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Darrel: Almost all newer browsers (except IE8+) on a default XP setting have
    the same issues. And most new netbooks coming out nowadays are shipped with XP
    because newer versions of Windows require too much system resources.'
  created: '2011-07-04 01:15:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not just XP/IE8, many systems cause webfonts to implode. <em>The most
    common OS/browser systems cause webfonts to implode</em>. You don't give a crap?
    You're tired of waiting? Your loss. Equal experience? Of course not, but a <em>decent</em>
    experience should be guaranteed unless you're some kind of freak user. You can't
    see 50% of users as freaks, no matter how old their systems (and they're not that
    old*). It if were \"a few folks\" I for one wouldn't complain - I'm all for sacrificing
    a clueless minority for the benefit of the crushing majority.\r\n\r\n* Remember
    that many people -like big companies- avoided Vista; until\r\nabout a couple of
    years ago it was common practice to get XP on a brand\r\nnew computer to avoid
    headaches.\r\n\r\nAnd I for one am not concerned about stupid graphic designers
    - there's too many of them for me to fix. I'm a practical person, I'm concerned
    with a group of people maybe I can influence sometimes, largely thanks to Typophile:
    type designers, too many of whom seem to be helping graphic designers get stupider
    - and in the process causing the quality-minded to look stupid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 01:25:17'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Staying away, for the moment, from some of the other assertions on this thread:\r\n\r\nNick
    Shinn said:\r\n<em>\"The situation can be compared with print design, where it's
    the typographer's responsibility to, for instance, not use a hairline weight sans
    serif at small size\"</em>\r\n\r\nUh, nope. On the web, in a browser onscreen,
    the size at which the font will be viewed is unpredictable and cannot be forced
    upon the reader by the typographer.\r\nThe size will depend upon the size of the
    device's screen, the screen resolution, the pixel depth, and the zoom level. All
    of which are variables that you can't know beforehand.\r\n\r\nIt is a near-certainty
    that that hairline weight sans-serif <strong>will</strong> appear at a small size
    for some readers.\r\nIt may be adjusted by them, it might not. They might find
    the look of that font when it first appears small - with the hairlines disappearing
    - enough of a turn-off to just click off and read something else. You can't know.
    Restricting their use to what you think of as a \"larger\" size means nothing
    - it's all relative.\r\n\r\nThis is a fundamental difference between fonts aimed
    at print and fonts aimed at the web. It's more fruitful to think of a web font
    as being a collection of fonts designed to appear one way or the other at every
    pixel size setting.\r\nWith web fonts, \"point size\" as it's commonly thought
    of in print media, is a meaningless distinction.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 05:13:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think you misunderstood my point Richard.\r\n\r\nI was talking about the
    typographer's responsibility to choose a font that is appropriate for the document.\r\n\r\nThe
    example I gave, of not using a hairline sans for small text, was specific to print.\r\nI
    didn't give an example for the web.\r\n\r\nHowever, if a web designer IS considering
    using an ultra-light sans, they can inspect how various weights (Hairline, Ultra
    Light, Extra Light) of a typeface render in different environments, at different
    pixel sizes, at the font distributor's site, and make their own judgment call.\r\n\r\nIt's
    the web designer's option to decide that it's worthwhile choosing a font that
    renders poorly in certain situations, if it looks brilliant in the majority of
    situations.\r\n\r\nOtherwise, designing for the lowest common denominator, one
    is cutting off one's nose to spite one's face.\r\n\r\nDealing with the \"point
    of failure\" in mind is the very nature of web design, where the variability of
    how the document displays produces a spectrum of quality.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    compare:\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/exljbris/museo-sans/100/gallery.html\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/exljbris/museo-sans/300/gallery.html\r\n\r\nIs
    it worth it to spec the 100 for headlines, where it will look real tasty 90% of
    the time, or do you play it safe with the 300, which looks a bit better when the
    page is tiny?\r\n\r\nSafety vs. Design indeed.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 07:51:55'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Frode -- <cite>The single biggest issue, IMO, is the lacking documentation
    of the hinting tools.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe single biggest issue is that there are
    still rasterizers out there which expect that fonts tell them what to do, via
    hinting/instructions. And that those who make these rasterizers seemingly have
    no intentions to do anything about it. And that type designers and type foundries
    happily buy any diversions they get served so to not ask for nor even think about
    real solutions \u2013 which would be those that allow us to just design type.
    (Instead, type designers seem happy to discuss this or that hinting trick or how-to,
    at font-level, rather than than addressing the problem where it can be solved
    effectively, at rasterizer-level. To avoid one misunderstanding: There is no way
    around font-level fixes in short and medium terms, but that should not be mistaken
    for a long term solution. A little hint: If autohinting works, it can be done
    at rasterizer-level, so there is no need to bother type designers with autohinting
    at font-level.)"
  created: '2011-07-04 12:27:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dear Kay,\r\n\r\nWhatever else you may glean from the vast trove of answers
    you may find here, if by \"Freeway\", you mean this font:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/findfonts/detail.htm?productid=149135\r\n\r\n...
    I would have to know more about the aesthetic you seek, or otherwise recommend
    that this not a great choice for the web.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 13:50:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karsten, the automatic stuff is *still* not good enough.\r\nWhich means rasterizers
    asking for help is *not* the problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 14:55:14'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "In my experience, (web) designers have often ignored large parts of possible
    or actual audience. It was true during the \u201Cbrowser wars\u201D (best viewed
    with\u2026), it was (is) true with accessibility and SEO. \r\nWebfonts add just
    another layer to it.\r\nOften it is because the designer is careless and/or (not
    so well) self-taught, and/or they want to use what is new and cool.\r\nBut there
    also is an inherent difficulty and expense in testing for all the possible configurations,
    and the even harder struggle to educate the client that sometimes it is better
    to compromise and have something that looks good on most cases, than something
    that looks perfect only on the client\u2019s computer."
  created: '2011-07-04 15:05:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"You can't see 50% of users as freaks, no matter how old their systems (and
    they're not that old*). It if were \"a few folks\" I for one wouldn't complain
    - I'm all for sacrificing a clueless minority for the benefit of the crushing
    majority.\"\r\n\r\nSure, it all depends on the site. \r\n\r\nThese days I just
    do not use CSS embedded fonts for commercial work. It's just not there yet. \r\n\r\nThat
    said, the fonts 'work' on IE. It's just not the prettiest experience. And people
    using antique non-standard browsers aren't used to a pretty experience anyways.
    So it's not as if you are denying them access to anything. \r\n\r\n\"Remember
    that many people -like big companies- avoided Vista\"\r\n\r\nYep. It's 2011 and
    my work machine is still XP. And IE7. To get any real work done we need to hack
    our own work machines to get Chrome and Firefox on and we spend a lot of time
    sneakernetting files to our personal MacBooks. The idiocracy of corporate IT departments.
    *sigh*.  ;o)\r\n\r\n\r\n\"the automatic stuff is *still* not good enough.\r\nWhich
    means rasterizers asking for help is *not* the problem.\"\r\n\r\nThe problem is
    that people want to, and are using CSS embedded fonts regardless of the quality
    of the rendering. I'd say a lack of automatic hinting isn't *the* problem, but
    definitely part of the equation. "
  created: '2011-07-04 15:39:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hrant -- <cite>Karsten, the automatic stuff is *still* not good enough. Which
    means rasterizers asking for help is *not* the problem.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease read
    my post. I <em>know</em> that autohinters are not there yet. Which is one of the
    reasons why I wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>To avoid one misunderstanding: There is no way
    around font-level fixes in short and medium terms, but that should not be mistaken
    for a long term solution.</cite>\r\n\r\nI would appreciate it a lot if you and
    others would more clearly distinguish short-term perspective and long-term perspective.
    It would help you avoid drawing long-term (general/universal) conclusions from
    short-term (here-and-now) premises.\r\nYour second sentence <em>would</em> be
    correct if you had added a \"still\" to it too, rather than jumping from a \"still\"
    in the premise to an implicit \"once and for all times\" in the conclusion."
  created: '2011-07-04 15:49:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Karsten, my problem is here-and-now:\r\n\r\n> people using antique non-standard
    browsers\r\n> aren't used to a pretty experience anyways. \r\n\r\nThat's BS. Almost
    all sites that don't use webfonts look/read fine.\r\nIn fact, what's really unnerving
    is that for a fraction of a second\r\nsites that use webfonts look fine, <em>then</em>
    the text becomes unreadable!  :-/\r\n\r\nAntique, shmantique - we're the majority.\r\nYou
    ignore us, you will sell less stuff.\r\n\r\n> To get any real work done\r\n\r\nYou
    mean to avoid reality.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but all this \"reasoning\" is an escape
    from the harsh realization\r\nthat you still cannot fully express yourselves as
    designers. Do you think\r\nI don't want this stuff to work?! Fonts is all I got!
    But we can't force it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 16:23:14'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Karsten: I didn\u2019t say autohinters where there yet. I do say that if
    hinting was better explained, more people would do it. It\u2019s not that hard
    really (speaking as a novice, about five days into learning this) and should definitely
    be a part of the design process of all new text fonts by now. Obviously better
    rasterizers are needed, but even the Mac approach is bad without hinting.\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 18:32:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karsten: <em>If autohinting works, it can be done at rasterizer-level</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but I wonder what the processing hit is for applying autohinting during rasterisation
    rather than reading hints from the font?"
  created: '2011-07-04 19:08:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Frode: \u2026 [hinting] <em>should definitely be a part of the design process
    of all new text fonts by now. </em>\r\n\r\nAre you referring to Standard or Delta
    hinting?"
  created: '2011-07-04 20:04:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"That's BS.\"\r\n\r\nNo. It's becoming more and more the standard way to
    build a web site. Most progressive web developers and designers have embraced
    the concepts of graceful degradation. It's becoming standard to be OK with IE
    users getting a lesser experience. We're not blocking them. They're just not getting
    all the bells and whistles. It's the pragmatic approach. We can't just stagnate
    waiting for people to stop using IE. IE users can keep using the site, but they
    don't get the rounded corners. Or fancy gradients. Or way-too-trendy rounded corners.
    \r\n\r\nTo focus on web fonts, I'm in total agreement that we're not there yet.
    And yes, there are a lot of graphic designers thinking they are web designers
    using web fonts in all the wrong ways. "
  created: '2011-07-04 20:11:48'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Do you have any experience with hinting, Nick? They can, and perhaps also
    should be, intertweened.
  created: '2011-07-04 20:23:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Most progressive web developers and designers\r\n> have embraced the concepts
    of graceful degradation.\r\n\r\nNow *that* is a decade old.\r\nBut there's nothing
    graceful about illegibility.\r\n\r\n> IE users\r\n\r\nRepeat: it's not just IE
    users!\r\n\r\nRepeat: no matter what one thinks of users, a <em>designer</em>
    cannot ignore them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 20:34:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm not disagreeing with you. I'm just taking a more grey-area stance. There's
    a wide gap between 'ignoring' and 'different degree of accommodation'.\r\n\r\n\"Repeat:
    it's not just IE users!\"\r\n\r\nIn terms of CSS font embedding, I agree. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 21:02:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Frode \u2013 <cite>I do say that if hinting was better explained, more people
    would do it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI got this, Frode. Indeed some y-direction \"hand-hinting\"
    which fellow foundries sell (with or without noise) is not such a big deal in
    terms of time and competence it takes. But then, it does not even address all
    rasterizers that worry us here-and-now (unless one tweaks the description of here-and-now
    as to exclude some XP rasterization modes). And the way you look at it has an
    unfortunate implication. Those who should address the problem once and for all
    feel less urged to do so since foundries take it upon themselves to do, or have
    others do, rather dull work and \"address the problem\" per each font.\r\nAgain,
    I too do not see a way around hinting fonts for the here-and-now.\r\n\r\nJohn
    \u2013 <cite>I wonder what the processing hit is for applying autohinting during
    rasterisation rather than reading hints from the font?</cite>\r\n\r\nSome years
    ago people may have wondered about the processing hit for scaling and rendering
    fonts from outlines on-the-fly. :)\r\nI am certain that executing TT instructions
    involves a bit more than reading them. Afaik, FreeType can do on-the-fly hinting,
    I have not seen comments that it is slow."
  created: '2011-07-04 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Do you have any experience with hinting, Nick? </em>\r\n\r\nYes, since
    I started the foundry in 1998.\r\n(Although my script fonts don't have hinting.)\r\nI
    took a workshop by Miguel Sousa at TypeCon 2007 which greatly improved what I
    was doing.\r\n\r\nHowever, I haven't published any fonts with Delta hinting.\r\nThat's
    primarily because, following Adobe's lead, I had switched to publishing my fonts
    exclusively in \".otf\" (postscript) format in 2005.\r\nThere was no reason for
    me to publish TrueType fonts for the web, as Microsoft and Carter had killed that
    market.\r\nThen, since @fontface came along, my webfont distributors have taken
    care of producing the webfonts, adapted automatically from my \".otf\" fonts.\r\n\r\nPresently
    I am of two minds as to whether I should Delta hint, leaning towards taking a
    crack at it with my next (text) release. It's been painted as a tedious process,
    nonetheless, it would be an interesting challenge. And a duty, of course, as Alex
    and Hrant would have it.\r\n\r\nIt's unlikely that I will go back and Delta hint
    any of my previous designs, except perhaps Beaufort, due to its continued popularity,
    and how poorly the present webfont iterations perform.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-04 23:26:43'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I perfectly understand that (delta*) hinting a huge back catalog might not
    be profitable for a one-man-show like yours, Nick. The way this raster disaster
    unfolded, it seems like it\u2019s become hard to charge more for quality. After
    all, the popular demand was for <em>quantity,</em> right?\r\n\r\nI hope you\u2019ll
    do this for your newer releases though. \r\n\r\n* It\u2019s not really logical
    to talk about delta hinting as something different than regular hinting, is it? "
  created: '2011-07-05 00:02:40'
- author:
    name: ewalthert
    picture: 112324
  body: "@aluminum: \"graphic designers thinking they are web designers using web
    fonts in all the wrong ways\"\r\n\r\nIt's also to easy put the blame on the user.\r\n\r\nI'm
    observing foundries promoting their somehow manually hinted web-fonts as hand-hinted
    and/or presenting them with ideal screenshots or in flash-based viewers rather
    than putting a native preview online, which would make serious testing and reviewing
    possible.\r\n\r\nI can understand that a graphic/web-designer which is licensing
    a classical typeface (form a major foundry), which is famous for it's readability,
    is expecting the web-font to be suitable for text sizes too. \r\nThere are a just
    a few foundries which are warning officially, that the fonts are not jet ready
    for this purpose but rather should be used in display-sizes. \r\n\r\nAs long pages
    like www.webfontawards.com are awarding websites which are partly unreadable under
    XP (not just in IE) there is something going completely wrong. Therefore I'm really
    happy that discussion like this one are taking place."
  created: '2011-07-05 09:33:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Therefore I'm really happy that discussion like this one are taking place.\"\r\n\r\nReminds
    me of a dusty old diorama at the Museum of Unnatural History."
  created: '2011-07-05 11:20:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@ewalthert\r\n\r\n<em>\"As long pages like www.webfontawards.com are awarding
    websites which are partly unreadable under XP (not just in IE) there is something
    going completely wrong.\"</em>\r\n\r\nIt would seem so, eh? Talk about elephants
    in the room.\r\nBut the problem is not XP. The problem is not restricted to an
    \"old\" operating system. Except for DirectWrite in IE9, what's different in Windows
    7?\r\n\r\nThe problem is the Windows GDI api which still exists, as it must, in
    Windows 7 and it is the default font rendering engine for FF4, Chrome, Opera -
    every browser I've seen except IE9 which has DirectWrite as the default.\r\n\r\nAnd
    IE9 didn't make it into the latest Windows 7 Service Pack release and that means
    it remains, for now, an upgrade.\r\n\r\nThe problem of converting fonts to TrueType
    and adapting them - to the extent they can be adapted - for comparatively low-res
    screens and GDI will be with us for many years.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-05 13:35:54'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@nickshinn\r\n\r\n<em>\"I think you misunderstood my point Richard.\"</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    I understood. I just cherry-picked to be abrasive in the spirit of good fun and
    lively conversation!\r\n\r\nLast year it was obvious that the biggest barrier
    to making web fonts something that web designers would have no qualms about was
    the way most of them looked in GDI. In other words, hinting, hinting, hinting.\r\nAnd
    while there are those who \"simply don't give a shit\" and say to hell with the
    users, I'm happy that Cool Hand agrees with me.\r\n<em>\"Again, I too do not see
    a way around hinting fonts for the here-and-now.\"</em>\r\n\r\n(Hrant, of course,
    seems to firmly be in this camp, too.)\r\n\r\nThe mountain ain't comin' to Mohammed
    so Mohammed must go to the mountain.\r\n\r\nThe only question is: how high is
    the mountain?\r\n\r\nWhat does it take to make a font look acceptable? (Look,
    the web-safe fonts don't look all that great in GDI either, so <em>some</em> degradation
    in comparison to DirectWrite and perhaps Mac or Freetype rendering is unavoidable
    and perfectly acceptable, within limits.)\r\nShould it take an hour? Ten hours?
    Forty hours? What's practical? What's the state of the auto hinters that are available?
    Good, bad, what? And more importantly - since the only thing that counts in GDI
    (and, to a large extent in DirectWrite) is how the hinted fonts looks, how can
    the points and outlines be adjusted to work best with the auto-hinter? What features
    of certain fonts aren't auto-hintable? \r\nAnd on and on.\r\nWhat I've found is
    that OTF with the rasterizer handling all point-to-pixel mapping issues, is extremely
    forgiving. An em unit up or down doesn't mean much.\r\nBut when you ask a separate
    program - an auto-hinter - to interpret the same points, an em unit up or down
    can mean a great deal.\r\n\r\nBottom line on this is: if there was a lucrative
    market in web fonts awaiting that those in the font business felt they could control
    to the extent that they do the market for print fonts, this problem would be solved
    already, guaranteed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-06 20:37:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/typedepot/5933451476/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-13 20:40:39'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Thx, hrant.\r\n\r\n(How did the busking go in New Orleans, BTW?)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    when auto-hinting is used, sans-serifs are very forgiving and, unfortunately,
    not a great measure of what the auto-hinter can handle or not handle. But, you
    usually do get a nicely hinted sans without a lot of hassle.\r\n\r\nrich"
  created: '2011-07-13 22:55:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So is it that the serifs throw off the hinter, or that the serifs come out
    cruddy?\r\n\r\nThe busking:\r\nhttp://www.typecon.com/archives/860\r\nWe were
    very lucky that Claire and friends (locals)\r\njoined the \"troupe\" with awesome
    analog letters.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/48413419@N00/5933739039\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-14 01:00:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, one thing I wanted to ask concerning that font on Flickr:\r\nWould it
    be so bad if OSX just rendered that cleanly?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-14 17:08:35'
date: '2011-06-25 00:24:56'
node_type: forum
title: Websafe v design fonts

---
