---
author:
  name: Gunarta
  picture: 121772
body: "Is Arabic the first cursive writing?\r\n\r\nI think Arabic is the first Cursive,
  because its cursive is modified into formal writing in its writing system.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nGunarta"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Think so?!\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/74436\r\nhttp://www.adicita.com/\r\nhttp://www.nonosoft.jifisa.net/\r\nSemoga
    Berjaya\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 12:13:04'
- author:
    name: TylerEldredge
    picture: 122887
  body: "I wouldn't say that. Indic scripts could, possibly, be considered cursive,
    because letter forms are joined together, just like cursive in other scripts.\r\n\r\nIf
    we're defining cursive as a script that is a simpler, quicker form for writing
    things quickly, then the oldest cursive script is the Chinese \u8349\u4E66/caoshu
    or [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cursive_script_(East_Asia)|Grass Script]]."
  created: '2011-07-02 22:54:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Better question:\r\nWhen will Arabic get over it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-02 23:29:13'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: "Indic Script family is about 3rd century BCE. While, Arabic is fourth-century.\r\nBut,
    Not All's of Incic family is cursive. I.e Balinese, Javanese, Brahmi, Telugu,
    and so on. The connected letters are just found in Gurmuki, Devanagari, E Nagari.
    Devanagari is 8th century. Gurmukhi is 15th century. E Nagari is derived from
    Nagari Script. While all nagari script is about 10th century. The Cursive variant
    in Indic is classified as new indic.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, Arabic had connected letters
    from it found.\r\nI dont think Cursive is working in Chinese."
  created: '2011-07-03 02:41:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think cursive is working, period.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 03:25:48'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>I dont think Cursive is working in Chinese.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAny
    script had or have a cursive form of some sort, in the exact moment in which it\u2019s
    written by hand (as opposed to being an inscription or, obviously, print).\r\nThe
    form which such cursive will take depends on the type of script, shape of glyphs,
    tools and materials used, and direction of writing.\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-03 09:09:26'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: I defined cursive as connected letters
  created: '2011-07-03 10:00:48'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Not the best of definitions ;-) \r\nWhat about printed Devanagari, for example,
    it\u2019s cursive because letters are connected? And there are script in which
    there is no \u201Cletters\u201D as such, so connecting glyphs would not make sense.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    by your definition, I think that Hieratic would come first:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hieratic"
  created: '2011-07-03 12:07:04'
- author:
    name: Gunarta
    picture: 121772
  body: Hieratic and cursive? what differences?
  created: '2011-07-03 15:12:21'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I was just saying that Hieratic is a form of cursive that predates Arabic
    cursive.
  created: '2011-07-03 17:51:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I don't know if we have the evidence to say.  My "guess" would be that there
    was much cursive writing which never survived the centuries,  It was likely that
    it was written on a material that would easily decompose. Perhaps there were written
    scripts long before we have artifacts available to see?
  created: '2011-07-03 17:59:05'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "<cite>Is Arabic the first cursive writing?</cite>\r\n\r\n\u201CCorsivo\u201D
    (= running) is an Italian term from about the 16th century. Given that, you can
    determine with very little thinking what this may have to do with Arabic or with
    \u2018first writing\u2019."
  created: '2011-07-04 10:00:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A distinction should be made between \r\n\r\na) cursive writing, which results
    in connections between individual letters based on minimising the number of times
    the pen leaves the page (e.g. English running hand or connected italic);\r\n\r\nb)
    connected formal writing, in which the connection between letters is constructed
    from independent strokes rather than cursively written (e.g. Devanagari); and\r\n\r\nc)
    morphographical scripts, in which the strokes connecting letters replaces strokes
    of the independent letters, thereby changing their shape (e.g. Arabic).\r\n\r\n____\r\n\r\nHieratic
    isn't cursive, it is a formal book hand. Demotic is informal and shows more elements
    of cursive. In order to determine whether a script style is cursive, you need
    to analyse the individual sign forms and determine how frequently the pen needs
    to leave the writing surface in order to write them. Cursive is all about speed
    and about minimising the number of times the pen has to be lifted and put down
    again.\r\n\r\nAll mature scribal cultures develop both formal book hands and informal
    or secretarial (chancery) hands. Cursive connection is one typical feature of
    the latter, but they also tend to display other characteristics derived from speed:
    abbreviation, compression and slant. Latin informal hands don't employ much abbreviation,
    but do display compression and slant. An Arabic informal hand such as ruqah displays
    considerable abbreviation, particular in losing the teeth of seen; it can be contrasted
    with the formal hands such as thuluth and naskh. [Nastaliq is interesting in that
    it functions as both a formal book hand and as an informal hand, especially in
    the Perso-Indic tradition, with the difference mainly in the care/speed with which
    it is written in different circumstances.]\r\n\r\nIt isn't sufficient to describe
    Arabic as \u2018cursive\u2019. It is morphographical, which means that the shape
    of the letters is determined by adjacency. This is why, unlike Latin, you can't
    just remove the connections between cursively written letters and still get something
    readable; in Arabic the connections are part of the letters, not separable linking
    strokes."
  created: '2011-07-04 18:41:05'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Cursive is bad. It was Akhenaten's fault. Before that, everything in Egypt
    was done in boxes.\r\n\r\nThe value of cursive is that it makes writing quicker.
    You might say that cursive writing is more beautiful. However, the most beautiful
    calligraphy takes ages to write, so the conveyance of flow wherein the beauty
    resides is deception. Cursive style in handwriting is not good for legibility.
    Many people prefer to read a printed text of disjoint letters. I find the ink
    blot effect of brushwork Chinese characters off-putting and crude. I see refinement
    in conformity, the majesty of logical order and practicality. Cursive writing
    is not good for certain kinds of execution and writing media, such as carving
    on hard surfaces. Systems with distinct letters are better for printing and electronic
    display.\r\n\r\nA system of writing that has a cursive foundation is unsound and
    crumbles towards the top.\r\n\r\nArabic calligraphic works of art are amazing
    though."
  created: '2011-07-05 16:22:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Systems with distinct letters are better for printing and electronic display.\r\n\r\nBut
    not for [immersive] reading.\r\nWhich however does <em>not</em> mean calligraphy
    is good for type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-05 16:25:17'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> A system of writing that has a cursive foundation is unsound and crumbles
    towards the top.\r\n\r\nCrumbles towards the top or bottom?!\r\nhttp://qalambartar.com/Font.aspx?FontID=1426454535\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-05 17:05:04'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "AzizMostafa: >Crumbles towards the top or bottom?!\r\n\r\nhrant: >But not
    for [immersive] reading.\r\nWhich however does not mean calligraphy is good for
    type.\r\n\r\n\r\nBecause of the equipment involved, printing with moveable type
    is technologically more advanced than drawing with pigment on sheets.\r\n\r\nPrimitive
    modular electronic display such as on pocket calculators is technologically more
    advanced than printing with moveable type, because of the equipment involved.\r\n\r\nNon-cursive
    script is more suitable for printing with moveable type and modular electronic
    display than cursive script.\r\n\r\nIn that sense, cursive scripts crumble towards
    advanced applications.\r\n\r\nThere are even more advanced applications than printing
    and electronic display. Information storage and transmission may be relevant to
    this argument. Segmental as opposed to morphological script allows combinatorial
    construction from a smaller set of characters. Morphological characters hardly
    combine combinatorially except at the word formation level. Segmental letters,
    on the other hand, combine at the level within the word as well as by permutations
    of words and morphemes. Hence, segmental systems of writing are inherently better
    adapted to information technology.\r\n\r\nAnyway, cursive scripts crumble towards
    the bottom as well, as they are not suitable for scratching on hard surfaces,
    for example if you find yourself on a desert island with no paper or ink pens.
    Reasons similar to this may be why the Roman alphabet has been promulgated so
    well.\r\n\r\nI'm sticking to the claim that cursive script is less legible. People
    can argue that morphographic cues aid faster reading. But segmental letters can
    provide morphographic cues too, albeit in a less spatially compact fashion. But
    since morphographic scripts take longer to learn, any benefit of rapid reading
    in the end is counter-balanced.\r\n\r\nCursive script can be okay for type if
    you are clever enough to design it well.\r\n\r\nThat said, I don't have anything
    against cursive script per se, it is against systems of writing that are based
    on cursive origins and which cannot be written segmentally whereas segmental letters
    can be written in both ways."
  created: '2011-07-06 12:04:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Might be applicable to some cursive scripts, but not Arabic, my dude fellow!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-06 14:07:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> technologically more advanced\r\n\r\nAnd cellphones are more advanced than
    landline phones - but I still don't have one.\r\nTo me it has to be useful, not
    advanced.\r\n\r\n> Non-cursive script is more suitable for printing with moveable\r\n>
    type and modular electronic display than cursive script.\r\n\r\nAnd illiteracy
    is even more suitable - you don't have to print at all!\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_uniglyph1.html\r\n\r\nSure,
    technology affects change in culture, but sadly it tends\r\nto be for the worse;
    so ideally we have to make technology not\r\njust quick and cheap, but culturally
    enriching.\r\n\r\nAll your arguments seem to tend towards simplification, Modernism.\r\nI
    think Modernism is inhuman.\r\n\r\n> cursive script is less legible.\r\n\r\nTypically,
    yes.\r\nBut -if redefined in a useful way- it can be more <em>readable</em>.\r\n\r\n>
    longer to learn\r\n\r\nIf what you're learning is useful, it more than makes up
    for it soon enough.\r\nAgain: illiteracy versus literacy.\r\n\r\n> I don't have
    anything against cursive script per se\r\n\r\nI do: it encourages an illusory
    valuation of chirography.\r\nWe just have to be strong enough to overcome it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-06 14:18:04'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "This thread has been veering somewhat off course from its original topic,
    for which I apologise as I seem to have been responsible.\r\n\r\nIf we look on
    the bright side and try to see the advantages, perhaps retrospectively, at least
    I have at the earliest stage disclosed biases I have that may undermine serious
    scholarship.\r\n\r\nThis is particularly important as there is evidently a risk
    of selecting the definition of \"cursive\" to suit our intentions.\r\n\r\nSo let
    us address the original topic:\r\n\r\nGunarta:\r\n>Is Arabic the first cursive
    writing?\r\n>I think Arabic is the first Cursive, because its cursive is modified
    into formal writing in its writing system.\r\n\r\nIn concordance with John Hudson,
    4.Jul.2011 10.41am: \r\n\r\n>a) cursive writing, which results in connections
    between individual letters based on minimising the number of times the pen leaves
    the page (e.g. English running hand or connected italic)\r\n\r\nI take the definition
    of cursive to mean graphical features that minimize the times that the implement
    of writing is lifted from the surface medium in order to increase the speed of
    execution. By cursive I do not necessarily mean a stenographic script of disjoint
    marks, such as Tironian short hand or scribal notation. Nor do I accept simple
    connection of letters, as \r\nGunarta suggested 3.Jul.2011 2.00am:\r\n\r\n>I defined
    cursive as connected letters\r\n\r\nas otherwise we could say that the Ogham script,
    which consists of nothing other than straight lines, is cursive. I do not accept,
    as riccard0 3.Jul.2011 1.09am suggested, that a script can be cursive just because
    it is written by hand:\r\n\r\n>Any script had or have a cursive form of some sort,
    in the exact moment in which it\u2019s written by hand\r\n\r\notherwise we could
    say that the Futhark runes were cursive.\r\n\r\nThe term cursive can be applied
    to scripts that predate its coinage, because we are using it as an academic categorisation
    for morphology or form rather than phylogeny. In contrast to others, I would not
    say that cursive applies only between letters or other glottographic segments
    that correspond to temporal acoustic segments. Cursive also applies within letters
    or morphograms. We can describe a script as cursive if it possesses any significant
    amount of cursivity, and there are degrees to which scripts are cursive, so that
    some are more cursive than others. Cursive and morphographical are not mutually
    exclusive terms; a script can be cursive and nevertheless morphographical.\r\n\r\nTake,
    for example, the case of Chinese characters. Even though there may not be cursive
    connections between characters in a particular Chinese script style, we may still
    say that the script is cursive if there are cursive features within the characters.
    This may be compared to cursive handwriting of the Roman alphabet, where there
    are cursive features within and between letters but not conventionally between
    words. Since the Chinese character corresponds to morphemes and often to whole
    words, the amount of cursivity is capable of being similar for the Chinese and
    Roman scripts.\r\n\r\nAs a second example, consider Arabic calligraphic script.
    Yes, there are morphographical traits on account of the likes of initial, medial
    and final forms, but this does not negate the fact that this Islamic script is
    predominantly cursive. If we were to say that Arabic script is not cursive, because
    it is morphographical, then by a similar argument we could claim that running
    handwriting in the English language written with the Roman alphabet is not cursive
    because of the morphographical attributes imparted by irregular spelling.\r\n\r\nThus,
    we acknowledge that there are cursive forms of Chinese script. A cursive variant
    or style of Chinese character script had evolved by at least as early as about
    200 BC. There really are cursive features within those Chinese characters. This
    is well before the earliest remaining examples that we have of cursive Arabic,
    dating from about the 4th century AD. Therefore, we can definitely say, on the
    basis of the evidence available to us, that Arabic is not the first cursive script.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is fair to say that Literary Hieratic is a more cursive form than the
    monumental Hieroglyphic. Hieratic must be older than the cursive Chinese script.
    That Hieratic may be the oldest cursive was pointed out by riccard0 3.Jul.2011
    4.07am. But John Hudson 4.Jul.2011 10.41am says:\r\n\r\n>Hieratic isn't cursive,
    it is a formal book hand.\r\n\r\nTo return to the statement in the opening post:\r\n\r\n>I
    think Arabic is the first Cursive, because its cursive is modified into formal
    writing in its writing system.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I do not understand correctly, but
    I do not see why the formal form of the script has to be cursive in order for
    the writing to be the earliest cursive. This may be relevant to the question of
    whether Literary Hieratic is cursive even though it is a formal book hand. Cursive
    does not necessarily imply informal, and formal does not necessarily imply non-cursive.
    It seems that this may be a case of choosing the definition to suit ones purposes.\r\n\r\nSo,
    I think that the question has been answered already. I would like to continue
    the argument on the merits of cursive script, as you can see how I have been able
    to highlight how it might be related to the reasons for our choices of definitions
    of cursive, perhaps in a new discussion if this has not been done before.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/StevenRogerFischerpage171JEPG_5171.JPG]"
  created: '2011-07-07 17:35:03'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Sure, technology affects change in culture, but sadly it
    tends\r\nto be for the worse; so ideally we have to make technology not\r\njust
    quick and cheap, but culturally enriching.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>All your arguments
    seem to tend towards simplification, Modernism.</cite>\r\n<cite>I think Modernism
    is inhuman.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I might not go that far, in this context at least,
    I agree.\r\n\r\nOn the one hand, though, it is true that it would be presumptuous
    of Westerners to think they can save Arabic typography.\r\n\r\nBut that does not
    appear to be the question. Instead, since the West sets the standards - whether
    the Linotype and Monotype machines, or the True Type and Opentype formats - then
    it's entirely appropriate for us to ensure that we avoid <em>preventing</em> the
    Arabic-script world from typesetting its languages with what it seeks as acceptable
    quality.\r\n\r\nStill, when you said\r\n\r\n<cite>Better question:</cite>\r\n<cite>When
    will Arabic get over it?</cite>\r\n\r\nyou seemed to be saying the exact opposite.\r\n\r\nI
    think that even when the technological obstacles to proper Arabic typography are
    eliminated, there will be some contexts in which something like \"Unified Arabic\"
    would be useful and desirable.\r\n\r\nBut this will have to come about from an
    initiative - or, rather, from popular demand - within that linguistic community."
  created: '2012-04-10 19:09:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it would be presumptuous of Westerners to think they can save Arabic typography.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    a \"Westerner\"? What's \"save\"?\r\n\r\nI remember once being told \"we don't
    want your help\" when making a suggestion on how to improve Cyrillic, how to undo
    some of the damage done by Peter the Great. And many people were outraged when
    I presented my Latin alphabet reform effort in the late 90s. The truth remains
    that an \"outsider\" can often see the forest for the trees, because emotions
    don't get in the way - or maybe it's that higher emotions get to surface.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-10 19:23:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Personally, while I think that leaving the hard sign off the ends of the
    words is still a good idea, the Russians should bring back the letters they threw
    away with the new orthography under the Soviets. It would help in transliterating
    Greek words.\r\n\r\nBut then I'm not familiar enough with the subject to even
    imagine what \"damage\" Peter the Great did to Russian. The current alphabet is
    phonetic for the language, and so going all the way back to Old Church Slavonic
    wouldn't seem to be an improvement.\r\n\r\nAnd while \"outrage\" probably isn't
    the right reaction to a proposed reform of Latin script, I would expect you would
    be met by an even more resolute hostile reaction: apathy.\r\n\r\nEven, say, the
    Hebrew alphabet - some of the letters of which are hard to distinguish for outsiders
    - isn't likely to get changed to suit them any time soon. Nor are Chinese characters
    going anywhere, despite the challenges they clearly pose to education for the
    Chinese people.\r\n\r\nOnce people have an effective means of communication that
    they can use with facility, the thought of undergoing a painful learning curve
    merely to regain what they once had - with perhaps some gains which are minute
    in comparison - will be rejected out of hand as unreasonable and irrational. This
    seems to me to be an entirely sensible reaction, even if it <em>is</em> also an
    obstacle to potentially useful progress."
  created: '2012-04-10 22:26:56'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "quadibloc: \r\n\"since the West sets the standards [...] it's entirely appropriate
    for us to ensure that we avoid preventing the Arabic-script world from typesetting
    its languages with what it seeks as acceptable quality.\"\r\n\r\n\"On the one
    hand, though, it is true that it would be presumptuous of Westerners to think
    they can save Arabic typography\"\r\n\r\nWouldn't ensuring the avoidance of preventing
    the Arabic-script world from typesetting be the same as saving Arabic typography?\r\n\r\nWhen
    cultures \"prefer\" the old ways and have reverence for the work of the pen and
    calligraphy instead of embracing newer means of mass-producing texts, how much
    are they kidding themselves because their system or style of writing prevents
    them from adapting? Westerners have respect for handwriting and hard-copy paper,
    but you cannot deny that we are using keyboards right now. Arabic society may
    have suffered a delayed flourishing and advancement of literary exchange because
    of reluctance to adopt the mechanical printing press.\r\n\r\nI am still in favour
    of improvements in typographic techniques, but am worried that Arabic writing
    could become overly dependent on software and suffer if it is taken away when
    superseded by rock carving."
  created: '2012-04-13 19:21:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dudfellow:\r\nYou raise an interesting question.\r\n\r\nSome objections
    to the specific <em>form</em> in which it was put can be raised, though.\r\n\r\nIf
    people make fonts for Arabic that provide high-quality calligraphic features,
    that won't mean that there is now a danger that when someone takes all their computers
    away, they won't be able to go back to using Linotype machines and typewriters,
    because they will no longer accept the inferior output from them.\r\n\r\nThere's
    no reason to expect that level of dependency would be created by the computer
    when it didn't exist originally - when the pen was frequently resorted to. Nor
    is there a real threat of the Islamic world being decomputerized.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, while I think many people will object to this as well, it <strong>is</strong>
    legitimate to question if a society has its priorities straight when its esthetic
    preferences for its writing system are allowed to get in the way of mass literacy
    and technical progress.\r\n\r\nGiven the wide acceptance of the Yakout typeface
    in Arabic newspapers, for example, however, the Arab world does not seem to be
    nearly as much a case of this as China and Japan.\r\n\r\nTypewriter faces with
    only two forms of each letter have been well enough accepted in the Arab world,
    and the additional complexity of two forms of each letter does not to me seem
    sufficient as to be a major obstacle to Arabic participation in the computer revolution."
  created: '2012-04-13 22:21:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It is important to note here that there's much more to literacy than the
    mere efficient decipherment of individual glyphs (something BTW that the human
    mind is much better at than some people think). Not to mention that it's entirely
    worthwhile giving up some efficiency for cultural identity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-13 23:39:06'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "hrant: \"It is important to note here that there's much more to literacy
    than the mere efficient decipherment of individual glyphs (something BTW that
    the human mind is much better at than some people think).\"\r\n\r\nAn article
    appeared on the front page of the Irish Times newspaper on Friday this week about
    the experiment reported in the journal Science entitled \"Orthographic Processing
    in Baboons (Papio papio)\"\r\nby authors Jonathan Grainger, St\xE9phane Dufau,
    Marie Montant, Johannes C. Ziegler, and Jo\xEBl Fagot.\r\n\r\nIt seems that the
    baboons were trained to recognise words by their spelling and remember them. I
    wonder whether they could achieve the same with other systems of writing? Yes,
    I wonder, but that does not mean that we benefit from the experiment.\r\n\r\nquadibloc
    : \"the Arab world does not seem to be nearly as much a case of this as China
    and Japan.\"\r\n\r\nThey make the effort though. Hence the need for and sanctioning
    of Pinyin."
  created: '2012-04-15 16:11:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It seems that the baboons were trained to recognise words by their spelling
    and remember them.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, they were trained to recognise patterns in
    letter order that are found in English words vs patterns that are not, which enabled
    them to identify words vs non-words when introduced to letter sequences <em>that
    they had not seen before.</em> This is the important part."
  created: '2012-04-15 18:11:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, it's great that you keep sticking up for the little guys - just don't
    go this far:\r\nhttp://io9.com/5883002/seaworld-is-being-sued-by-five-of-its-enslaved-killer-whales\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-15 18:26:39'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "John Hudson: \"trained to recognise patterns in letter order that are found
    in English words vs patterns that are not\"\r\n\r\nIf they were trained to recognise
    the patterns, then I don't see the point of the experiment. What would matter
    more is that the baboons could discover the patterns themselves on their own initiative,
    without being shown them by rewards. If they were trained only to recognise patterns
    of orthography, which have a vestigial underlying phonological basis despite irregular
    spelling, somehow without at the same time being trained to recognise words by
    their spelling, then in the prospective test, the baboons would only have been
    identifying sets of letters that satisfied the patterns that they were trained
    to detect rather than by whether the sets were words, with the exception of any
    mistakes (that is to say, not doing what the experimenters want them to do) that
    the baboons would make occasionally. If, on the other hand, the baboons had failed
    the test, we could only say that they were too dim-witted to catch on to the training."
  created: '2012-04-16 21:13:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What would matter more is that the baboons could discover the patterns
    themselves on their own initiative, without being shown them by rewards.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    possible criteria could the baboons have to discover such patterns on their own?
    <em>They don't speak English.</em> The baboons have to be given a basis for distinguishing
    the patterns of English orthography from non-word letter sequences, and that basis
    is provided by the reward that they receive during the training. You can't say
    to a baboon 'This one is an English word and this one isn't'; you have to communicate
    the distinction via something that the baboon understands and finds motivational.\r\n\r\n<em>...the
    baboons would only have been identifying sets of letters that satisfied the patterns
    that they were trained to detect rather than by whether the sets were words...</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    The baboons were trained to distinguish words from non-words. They were not presented
    with sets of letters but with words and non-words, and they were rewarded for
    identifying the words by pressing a particular button, and then for identifying
    non-words by pressing a different button. So the training and  subsequent testing
    is of word selection vs non-word selection, not for learning particular sequences
    of letters. The testers are not somehow telling the baboons that what they need
    to do is memorise certain letter sequences: they are presenting two kinds of objects,
    and teaching the baboons that some of these correspond to one button and some
    to another. Then the baboons are shown different sets of objects, that they have
    not seen before, and have to try to decide which correspond to which button. The
    fact that they are able to do so correctly demonstrates a) that they are able
    to distinguish different orders of letters (since that is, in fact, what distinguishes
    the two kinds of object), b) have understood that this is the criteria by which
    to distinguish the objects, and c) can extrapolate ordering principles from one
    set of objects to another set. That is pretty darned remarkable, especially when
    you consider that baboons are not considered among the most intelligent of primates
    and that they are not in the hominid line. The latter point is most interesting
    to me, because it means that if the cognitive mechanism by which the baboons are
    able to do these things is the same mechanism by which humans can, then it must
    have evolved before the split between Cercopithecidae and Hominidae, and that
    implies some time in the Miocene period, probably between nine and fourteen million
    years ago."
  created: '2012-04-17 20:39:13'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Don't you understand the conditional \"If they were trained only to recognise
    patterns of orthography\"? \r\n\r\nBy \"patterns\" and the context of your comment
    \"No, they were trained to recognise patterns in letter order\" in reply to mine
    \"It seems that the baboons were trained to recognise words by their spelling
    \", I assumed you meant orthographic patterns. Unless the word orthography means
    something different to me than to others, it is a consequence of the allowed permutations
    of letters in the spelling of words, for a particular language and system of writing.
    It is not possible to have orthography without spelling. In an abstract way, one
    might suppose a hypothetical system of orthographic rules, but these could only
    be conveyed by actual permutations in sample words. Visually, words are nothing
    more than permutations of letters that become allowed. Hence, in order for the
    baboons to have been trained to identify orthographic patterns, they had to recognise
    spelling, which is nothing more than permutation of letters. In summary, the baboons
    could not have only been taught to recognise orthographic patterns, they had to
    be able to recognise spelling as a prerequisite.\r\n\r\nIt is a personal opinion
    of mine that the result of the experiment has no consequence unless the baboons
    show the ability to formulate orthographic rules of their own volition, without
    artificial rewards. The baboons were trained to recognise the patterns. More important
    would be to observe the baboons using this ability in a natural setting, without
    using trials. That is not likely to happen unless we see baboons suddenly picking
    up implements and writing their own letters. (This is not as improbable as it
    sounds. I have read before in a book a myth about how a certain system of writing
    in Africa was in origin imparted to humans from baboons that approached humans
    around their fires.)"
  created: '2012-04-17 23:43:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think we basically agree then about what the baboons were trained to do:
    to recognise the orthographic patterns of English spelling such that they could
    henceforth recognise English words and to distinguish them from non-words. Yes?\r\n\r\nI
    find your comments about the experimental results having 'no consequences unless
    the baboons show the ability to formulate orthographic rules of their own volition,
    without artificial rewards' simply bizarre though. Consequences for whom? The
    results demonstrate not only that baboons have the capacity for orthographic processing
    but that this capacity is independent of language knowledge (obviously). The experiment
    tells us things about that capacity, not about the consequences of that capacity.
    Obviously what humans have done with that capacity is very different from what
    other primates have done with it, yet the fact that the capacity seems to be shared
    suggests very interesting things about our shared evolution. It suggests, among
    other things, that core perceptual and cognitive functions that enable the mechanics
    of reading are very, very old. I'd long assumed that these functions preceded
    the invention of writing by some long period, but this experiment indicates that
    they may have evolved long before human beings became such. What the baboons have
    done, might do or will do with this demonstrated capacity is beside the point:
    the experiment has consequences for our understanding of ourselves. What is consequential
    in the study is what it tells us about the capacity, and the fact that baboons
    have not, apparently, exploited to capacity to create writing and reading 'of
    their own volition' is neither here not there; since the capacity likely predates
    human written language by some millions of years, of more interest is the question
    of why it might have been evolutionarily selected for or to what selected-for
    trait it was a free rider."
  created: '2012-04-18 00:41:03'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: Although I go too far to say "no consequence", I don't find the result surprising.
    Obviously, humans have to have the capacity or else we would not be able to read.
    We know therefore that our ancestors had the capacity also where we have evidence
    of writing. When the capacity arose does not seem to be interesting to me. It
    especially does not seem to be interesting if it is not being put to use for writing
    and reading. I suspect that the ability to recognise permutations must be more
    necessary for vision than may have been thought. I think that we underestimate
    the cognitive abilities of animals. I am utterly convinced that I have heard birds
    talking to each other. It is a secret language that they do not sing out loud
    and use very quietly. We only need to know one case of when a bird or animal has
    been able to speak to us, as a trained African grey parrot, that they would tell
    us that they want freedom if only they could. I saw the parrot on television say
    that it didn't want to do any more tests and wanted to be let out, but the experimenter
    told the parrot in reply that it had to do the tests.
  created: '2012-04-18 20:24:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The published paper describing the experiment is available online:\r\nhttp://people.psych.cornell.edu/~jec7/pcd%20pubs/graingeretal.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    conclusion makes clear what the researchers consider the significance of the findings,
    and I agree with them. I don't think it is a matter of having underestimated the
    cognitive abilities of animals, but of confirming that a particular cognitive
    ability that humans use for a very specialised cultural activity is shared with
    primates that do no use it for that purpose. And I do find that interesting because
    it obliges us to generalise the ability, even beyond notions of pattern recognition
    being useful for e.g. hunting."
  created: '2012-04-20 04:31:16'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "... but of confirming that a particular cognitive ability that humans use
    for a very specialised cultural activity \r\n-\r\nThe Glorious Holy Quran Confirms
    that particular cognitive ability ANIMALS use for a very specialised cultural
    activity?!\r\n\r\n\u2026 till, when Solomon and his hosts came on the Valley of
    Ants, an ant said, 'Ants, enter your dwelling-places, lest Solomon and his hosts
    crush you, being unaware!' But Solomon smiled, laughing at her words...\r\n...\r\nAnd
    Solomon reviewed the birds; and said, 'How is it with me, that I do not see the
    hoopoe? Or is he among the absent? But the hoopoe tarried not long, and said,
    'I have comprehended that which you have not comprehended, and I have come from
    Sheba to you with a sure tiding.\r\n--\r\nComprehensive?!\r\n"
  created: '2012-04-20 05:14:31'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "AzizMostafa: \"The Glorious Holy Quran Confirms that particular cognitive
    ability ANIMALS use for a very specialised cultural activity?!\"\r\n\r\nThere
    is an incident in the Bible, in the book Numbers, Chapter 22 verses 28 to 30 involving
    a speaking donkey.\r\n\r\nI recall reading an article that appeared in the Economist,
    issue July 10th 2010, pages 73 to 74, titled: \"The Da Vinci code\" subtitled:
    \"Reading may involve unlearning an older skill\" relevant to some of the work
    of researchers such as Stanislas Dehaene and Mark Changizi. I had taken an interest
    in it at the time, because it was suggested that baboons have build-in specific
    areas of the brain for detecting certain graphical features that occur in letters.
    As far as I recall, the article discussed whether learning to read could hijack
    parts of the brain that would otherwise have been used for skills that are necessary
    for social interaction, such as recognition of faces. I wonder whether conditions
    such as Asperger's syndrome could be improved by discouraging too much reading,
    or whether some systems of writing would have a greater tendency to hinder socialisation,
    and to what extent the amount of morphography versus phonography in the writing
    affects this, if at all. \r\n\r\nThe table that is included with my post of 7
    Jul 2011 \u2014 9:35am in this node also can be consulted as Figure 135, page
    175 of the book \"Sign, Symbol and Script\" by author Hans Jensen, published by
    George Allen & Unwin Ltd., 1970.\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2012-04-21 21:41:32'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "dudefellow 21 Apr 2012 \u2014 1:41pm: \"was suggested that baboons\"\r\n\r\nThey
    might have been macaques or other primates and not specifically baboons."
  created: '2012-04-23 21:50:28'
date: '2011-07-02 08:48:12'
node_type: forum
title: Is Arabic the first cursive writing?

---
