---
author:
  name: MarkFonts
  picture: 128171
body: "Magenta is an extended geometric sans serif typeface designed for legibility
  at larger sizes (not sure about body text).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mag_3894.png]\r\n\r\nThis
  is my first type design, and i'm excited to hear how to make it stronger.\r\nPlease,
  critique every last thing, because this needs some work, specifically width of characters,
  styling, width of strokes, everything.\r\n\r\nI drew from typefaces like Gabriel
  Sans, Salvo Sans (esp. Salvo Sans Black), maybe Neutraface (subconsciously hehe),
  Futura, Gotham.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Really not bad for a first go! I'm not a pro so take my comments with plenty
    of salt and sugar. \r\n\r\nI'll come back later in a day or three with a more
    expansive crit, but there are two main things that poke my eye. Spacing is too
    tight and rather uneven. I'm only slowly learning spacing myself, but I reckon
    you can open it up a lot more, even for large sizes. The other thing is the stroke
    thickness. On the whole, it looks rather monoline, which I'm guessing is what
    you wanted. But look carefully at /b/ for example, and you'll see that where the
    bowl meets the stem, there are quite dark areas that mess up the overall colour.
    I can see you've already noticed how your inspiration typefaces have dealt with
    that problem, but I'd take it a little further.\r\n\r\nOk, two more observations.
    You've angled the top terminals of K and N but not L. (And similarly on I but
    not T.) I don't understand the logic, and frankly don't think the angled bits
    add much to the design and personally I find it distracting. Following a similar
    idea, look at the terminals of your uppercase and lowercase Cc and Ss...the counters
    in one case are much more open and the angles are cut differently.\r\n\r\nOk,
    those are my general observations. Hopefully I'll be back to think about individual
    characters. "
  created: '2011-07-04 22:31:35'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: thanks! I'll look at the characters you mentioned, can't wait for further
    critique!
  created: '2011-07-05 05:26:03'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "First thing that catches my eye is /a/. It's bowl seems unbalanced and middle
    horizontal bar needs more logic: why is it a curve when other bars are straight?
    If it's intentional, then why this angle? Such questions about style's unity are
    irritating the unconsciousness - like Arial's unknown angle terminals :)\r\n\r\nCan't
    see the combos here, but /J/ seems too wide. Try /LJ/ or similar pair to test.\r\n\r\nIs
    /m/ made from 2 unchanged /n/'s? It might work to condense it a bit.\r\n\r\n/t/
    bar's right edge most of the times is supposed to be same width as a terminal.\r\n\r\n/G/
    angled leg is the only such one. Again - breaking the stylistic unity. \r\n\r\n/M/
    middle connection is a no-no.\r\n\r\nAnd it's better to upload curved .pdf's -
    that way people can zoom in at desired level in browser - no need for an image
    app.\r\n\r\nInterested to see darker weights :)"
  created: '2011-07-10 17:18:23'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Here is an update! Thanks for your critiques, it\u2019s looking REALLY GOOD!
    Keep \u2018em coming ; )\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Magenta-teaser_5094.png]\r\n\r\nUpdate=PDF
    at the top."
  created: '2011-07-13 23:08:42'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Mark, I'm sorry I don't have the chance to look thoroughly at this for
    the next few days, hopefully at the weekend I'll have a bit of free time. In the
    meantime, think balance, contrast and tension...if you manage to make every decision
    based on those lines of reasoning, you'll be going a very long way. This is a
    real improvement, and it shows a lot of promise. \r\n\r\nOne thing for now is
    that you've got very unusual proportions between the uppercase and lowercase.
    I think this can work but look what happens with 'Ma' in terms of the comparative
    counter spaces between this version and the previous one. Also, check the lower
    join of the bowls of /d/ and /a/ for consistency."
  created: '2011-07-13 23:35:48'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Oh, off the top of my head, i think \u201CM\u201D would look better if it
    was wider? right now it is just taller, but it needs to be balanced out with more
    width (and a lower middle connection) to balance out the diff. would you recommend
    that I make the bowls for bdpgq more extended so that they match the more subtle
    curve of the a?\r\n\r\noh, an you can do what you need to, and take what time
    you need. I'm just excited about everything!"
  created: '2011-07-14 00:13:06'
- author:
    name: JSuomalainen
  body: "Nice! \r\n\r\nFor inspiration I recommend to also check Frantisek Storms
    Zeppelin if you haven't yet.\r\nhttp://www.stormtype.com/family-zeppelin.html\r\n\r\nalso
    for the letter I check http://www.radimpesko.com/fonts/fugue\r\n\r\nSince I don't
    have a long history in design I rather not comment too much on details.\r\n\r\nInspiring
    work!"
  created: '2011-07-14 01:01:18'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Thanks Jaakko! wow.. definitely never seen those fonts before, but i can
    definitely pull from Zeppelin 42.. love the sizing of the caps compared to the
    lower case,\r\n\r\nFugue has interesting character.. the I is something i can
    look at, for sure.. Thanks for sharing!"
  created: '2011-07-14 02:43:17'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Now /a/ looks way better!\r\n\r\n/M/ short middle connection creates an optical
    illusion of diagonals getting narrower in the middle. It makes letter look fragile
    too.\r\n\r\nTo human eyes, same width horizontal lines look darker than verticals.
    So there is balance work need to be done. Some examples: \r\n/H/ bar and /b/ bowl
    top/bottom look darker than verticals.\r\n/A/ bar looks narrower than diagonals.\r\n\r\n/&/
    \"falls\" to the left.\r\n/1/ is too short :)\r\n\r\nUse some [[http://www.whatfontis.com/|font
    identification service]] and always keep looking look for analogues (similar fonts)
    everywhere:\r\n1. It helps to avoid unintentional copying.\r\n2. Analysing analogues
    helps solve various problems and questions about your own font."
  created: '2011-07-14 08:08:01'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "P.S. \r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/magenta.font \r\n:)"
  created: '2011-07-14 11:36:08'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Thanks Eimantas! The font identification program gave me a lot of grotesk
    fonts and Antenna light (I\u2019ll take that as a complement..)\r\n\r\nsomething
    that I don't quite understand is shaping of the bowls of the /dbgqp/.. should
    they follow more after the curves of /a/, or more after an /o/? or is it a sliding
    scale between them both to make continuity and distinctive style:\r\n\r\n[[http://myfonts.us/td-LHuPrv|Cillian]]
    seems to match the the curves of /d/ to /a/, as does [[http://myfonts.us/td-jejwCv|Antenna]]\r\n\r\nhowever,
    neither [[http://myfonts.us/td-rRErC3|Gabriel Sans]] nor [[http://myfonts.us/td-Crm91b|FF
    DIN]] does so, in favor of more conventional letterforms (Grotesk-esk) all the
    while not pushing letters to unusual or uncomfortable appearances.\r\n\r\nIt seems
    the former makes typefaces that are distinctive, since traits are carried through
    to more letters, while the latter make more \u201Caccessable\u201D typefaces since
    they are more usual. If my purpose was to have a recognizable typeface, but not
    to the point of uncomfortable letterforms, which side should i err toward?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    how does the darkness/line-thickness of /o/ look when compared to the rest.. I'm
    not sure if it's too dark or not."
  created: '2011-07-14 22:19:39'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "It's looking good. The /o/ looks fine but the /x/ and /z/ stand out to me
    as too dark.\r\n\r\nAlso, both the /o/ and /O/ seem heavier at the top and bottom,
    as opposed to the sides; I assume this was intentional?  The /p b q d/ seem a
    little awkward where they join the stem. Maybe you could try moving the top and
    bottom most points on the bowl a little further away and making the change in
    the stroke weight a little more gradual.\r\n\r\nAll in all, it's coming together
    nicely."
  created: '2011-07-14 22:32:58'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "here's what i did with d... that's a great improvement, thanks!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letterd_4773.png]\r\n\r\nYeah,
    I made /Oo/ unconventionally so they look more geometric but wider, like the rest
    of typeface. If it's too distracting, i can make the sides a little heavier. Do
    you think i should?"
  created: '2011-07-14 23:05:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "What I meant was to look at the way the bottom of the bowl of d thins towards
    the stem, it looks like the same area of a is treated differently, though they're
    the same feature.\r\n\r\nIn the latest sample, the bowl of d and the curves of
    e look quite different..d looks more symmetrical and e more humanist."
  created: '2011-07-14 23:41:16'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: Regarding the /O/, I just wasn't sure if it was intentional or not. The change
    in /d/ seems to reflect the intent with the /Oo/.
  created: '2011-07-14 23:47:24'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Ok, thanks Ben:\r\nGeometric /e/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lettere_5961.png]\r\n\r\nFixed
    the constriction of the top of the /e/\r\nIs the flexed bowl with a perpendicular
    terminal at the bottom of the /e/ considered humanist? I wanted it to match the
    bowl at the top of the /a/\r\n\r\nThanks for the clarification James.. I have
    only observed the rules of type design, and wasn't sure if that was a hard and
    fast rule or convention."
  created: '2011-07-15 00:46:12'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Another core principle of font design is: \r\nThe counters (inner white spaces)
    should have same volume  (or LOOK like that) across all lowercase or uppercase.
    In other words, optically there should be equal amounts of inner white space in
    /b/, /o/, /e/, /n/ etc. \r\nRight now, /b/ seems too wide, /e/ seems to dark."
  created: '2011-07-15 08:27:23'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Yep, just realized last night that the the counters weren't matching after
    I made the change to the /bgqdp/. I like the width so much, i made all of the
    other letters wider to match! Also changed the darkness of the e.. and i'll get
    to the /nmh/ later.. would the /s/ have to change as well, since it is often a
    different width than /opgbqpae/ and such?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cabaret_3527.png]\r\n\r\ndo
    you have any tips for looking for identifying consistant darkness, because I keep
    struggling. =)"
  created: '2011-07-15 14:02:30'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Lower the monitor (background) contrast, squint your eyes and move back from
    monitor.\r\nBy doing this, /b/ in the picture still looks too white.\r\n\r\nAnd
    /s/ is a tricky part - you'll have to trust your eyes, not the numbers.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    it's getting better and better. I'm starting to like this :)"
  created: '2011-07-15 14:26:43'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "(Why I can't edit posts?)\r\n\r\nAlso don't look at individual letters -
    try to view word \"as a whole\".\r\nFor me it helps to look somewhere slightly
    above or below it."
  created: '2011-07-16 13:13:11'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: That's a great idea Eimantas... I'm always just tinkering away with the letters
    that seem to have a problem rather than seeing if everything is cohesive.. I'll
    definitely try that! and thanks for the screen contrast bit.. that's already helping
    i think.
  created: '2011-07-16 14:47:27'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "One more thing I remembered - it's often a good practice to use foreign language
    words.\r\nWe tend to associate our mother tongue words we see with their meanings.
    And it becomes more difficult to look at letters (or their sequences) as pure
    graphic elements.\r\n\r\n(I know, it's kind of meta - but right now I don't know
    how to explain it better...)"
  created: '2011-07-16 16:02:11'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Here's what I have.. I worked on /nmu/ so their open counters are optically
    equivalent to the counters of other letters.\r\nworked on /e/ darkness counters
    compared to both /a/ and /o/\r\ntook off the tail on /l/ (copying [[http://www.lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Akkurat/|Akkurat]]
    for little reason)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_test_4848.png]\r\nyes
    i know i misspelled doppler... whatever. =P\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_test_two_6474.png]\r\n\r\nThat's
    a great tip Eimantas.. would it be a good idea to look at individual letters flipped
    on their x axis so that the meaning of the letters is even less of a factor?"
  created: '2011-07-16 16:34:48'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Absolutely. Flipping, mirroring, BW inverting - all these \"routine breaking\"
    things are good (but you don't want to be designing letters upside down all the
    time though). :)\r\n\r\n/m/ is too condensed.\r\n/y/ right bar is too dark.\r\n/t/
    bar and /r/ terminal heights don't match.\r\n/t/ bar looks darker than /e/'s.\r\nAnd
    I still would condense /d, p, q, b/. Letter /o/ should be the widest of them.
    \r\n\r\nI know how in beginning it is fun and easy to work with modular constructions
    (o+l = b, d, p, q) (n = u, r, m), but it hurts legibility and most important (especially
    for such semi-modular, non-decorative fonts) makes them less warm and interesting.
    My two cents."
  created: '2011-07-16 17:04:31'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Ohh... lol i was trying to make the open counters put together equal the
    open counter under n hahaha...\r\nActually the bowl of /dbpqg/ are different at
    the connection to the ascender/descender.. but i thought almost exact copying
    of parts of characters was a usual way of creating continuity through all the
    characters.\r\n\r\nAlso, didn't know /o/ should be widest compared with /dgbpq/..
    working on it!\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for the encouragement to take the hard but rewarding
    route, instead of the easy route.. needed that!"
  created: '2011-07-16 17:40:52'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Yea, (maybe it was MY bad explaining) I was talking about letter's whole
    inner white space (both enclosed and open).\r\nIn very decorative and very modular
    (therefore hardly legible) fonts, copy-pasting works well. \r\nIn more sophisticated
    designs like yours, you have to trust the eyes, not raw geometry.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    It can be anyway you want, but fore me /l/ tail gave the typeface one more stylistic
    feature (and not being just a bar) + it would help to differentiate \"Il1\" combo.
    \r\nFor stylistic unity /a/ also should lose the tail, but then it would look
    more boring. :/"
  created: '2011-07-16 17:57:46'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "I think you're right.. i'll un-nix the tail.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type_test_three_6362.png]\r\nany
    more tips on the bowl and descender connection? It's looking dark there, but I'm
    trying not to use inktraps to lighten it up b/c they break the geometry..\r\nshould
    it be a small inktrap?\r\n\r\nPS Also, when I make the bar in /e/ match the bar
    in /t/, it looks to heavy compared to its eye.. should i split the difference
    between the 2 widths so both match, but /e/ looks happier?"
  created: '2011-07-16 18:26:52'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: Updated alphabet spec sheet at top.
  created: '2011-07-16 19:22:35'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Just try moving the lower connection point up a bit too see what happens.
    Again - not the geometry, but eye judgement is important here.\r\n\r\nThe bars
    HAVE to match - you can't have different stroke widths."
  created: '2011-07-16 19:35:28'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Lol, why sometimes I can't edit posts?\r\n\r\n/o p b q d/ looks better!\r\nNow
    /j/ falls out of style. Connect it with either /l, f, g, y/ or something.\r\n/y/
    upper inner space is unbalanced (asymmetrical).\r\n/x/ has too evident \"pyramid\"
    shape.\r\n/2/ diagonal is too thick.\r\n/3/ connection has to move higher.\r\n/4/
    diagonal is too thick.\r\n/&/ is falling on it's back.\r\n\r\nI still have doubts
    that wide /J/ - I myself always try it with \"ALJAZEERA\" or \"ALJANS\":)\r\nAnd
    I would make /I/ narrower - to differentiate it from /T/\r\n\r\nI'm a bit worried
    most of the comments are mine - it can lead to subjective results.\r\nAlso I highly
    recommend getting hold of Karen Cheng's \"Designing Type\" - it's an anatomy analysis
    book for every letter (serif and sans) + most of accents and punctuation. The
    book even has sections about spacing and kerning. You can get a used one for cheaper.
    It will help you in a long road.\r\n\r\nP.S. and by \"lower connection point\"
    I mean \"outer connection points\" (can't edit previous post).\r\n"
  created: '2011-07-16 20:33:00'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "i haven't been working super hard on the numbers and /&/ yet just trying
    to get a start on them, but I will polish them a little\r\n\r\nI already changed
    the width of the horizontal stroke, because it felt wide, and it didn't match
    the width of the horizontal stroke of the /a/ and that letter's my baby.\r\n\r\nIm
    putting bars on the top and bottom of /I/ so that it has character. Most sans
    serif fonts do that, and with mine, it will help make the I look more extended
    like the other letters, but you're right it should be narrower than /T/\r\n\r\nworking
    on your suggestions.."
  created: '2011-07-16 20:38:10'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Apparently I'm having trouble editing too...\r\nLooked at other fonts and
    realized that J was narrower than L! wow!\r\nWorking on it..\r\n\r\nPPS Karen
    Cheng's \"Designing Type\" book.. looks facinating!! I've bout a couple of type
    books but none are about design.."
  created: '2011-07-16 20:59:32'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "So i've worked on the /xy/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/xyz_6306.png]\r\nHow's
    that?\r\n\r\nAlso, do you have any tips on punctuation letterspacing? Should /\u2019/
    be kerned close to letters so they aren't distracting? Should I use kerning to
    automatically place periods close under letters?"
  created: '2011-07-16 23:04:56'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: 'Ohh, just made a big connection.. darkness of a letter is not only defined
    by the thickness of the line, its how big the counters are in comparison! ohh,
    duh type is design with BOTH the positive and negative shapes in consideration.. '
  created: '2011-07-17 02:36:32'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Oh my, I think I have to apologise...\r\nWhat I mean by \"same width bars
    in /t/ and /e/\" was same VERTICAL width = thickness.\r\nWords - the source of
    all misunderstandings.\r\n\r\n/x/ looks better.\r\n/y/ looks better.\r\n\r\nWhat
    about giving /d/ a tail?\r\n\r\nPeriod is about the same size as dot on /i/. And
    it has to connect to to that shape too.\r\nCan't tell much about punctuation spacing
    - just make your eye judgement. Of course the will have to be kerning involved
    for specific letters. \r\n\r\nOne thing that is important to know: some fonts
    advertise themselves by having thousands or gazillions or kerning pairs. Don't
    be impressed much - it means that their metrics are bad, so they require so much
    kerning to fix that. Even 500 pairs can be enough for properly spaced fonts that
    have all the accents and punctuation kerned. "
  created: '2011-07-17 08:38:14'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: 'A tip for kerning that I try to follow: less is more. Like Minerva said,
    try to fix most of your spacing issues with metrics and use kerning sparingly.'
  created: '2011-07-17 17:24:29'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Yeah, i knew what you mean about the /t/ bar\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tbar2_5428.png]\r\nshould
    the /e/ be narrower than the /o/ and /a/?\r\n\r\nThanks for the reminder about
    kerning pairs.. when i started 3 months ago I made all the metrics the same and
    kerned the difference haha, now I understand what metrics do most of the work,
    and kerning is for the exceptions.\r\n\r\nI'll try a tail on d."
  created: '2011-07-17 17:42:12'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Nice work on /j/. I just would shorten the hook a bit to differentiate from
    /t/ and /f/.\r\n\r\n/f/ right side of the bar has to be aligned with terminal.
    Same goes for /t/. \r\n\r\nAbout /e/ width - again, the equal inner space is the
    waypoint. And it looks almost fine as it is now. When put along /a/ it looks    s
    l i g h t l y    bigger, so it may help to narrow /e/ a bit. But it's nitpicking.\r\n\r\n/K/
    has problems:\r\nMiddle diagonal is too thick and it's height doesn't match capital
    height.\r\n\r\nTry raising /R/ bowl to differentiate from /P/.\r\n\r\nIs /L/ bottom
    bar as long as /E/ counterpart? If yes, it needs to be shorter. /L/ naturally
    has a too much white space, so we need to solve that.\r\n\r\nBoth of /A/ counters
    have to share the same optical volume. The bar needs to be lowered.\r\n\r\nP.S.
    There are lots of methods for spacing, most of them start with two symmetrical
    letters: /o and n/ /H and O/.\r\nStart with /n/ - space between two letters should
    NOT be similar to bars or counters.\r\nThen start to incorporate /o/: nnonn nnonon
    nnoonn nnnonoononnon.\r\nThis initial spacing is the most important, don't be
    afraid to spend a lot of time on it. This is your foundation for all other letters.
    You will not enjoy respacing everything because of improper beginning.\r\n\r\n<strong>Important</strong>:
    When doing metrics, use as big letters as you technically can (pixel distortion).
    Also keep moving away from monitor and x-flipping everything. Squint your eyes,
    look slightly above letters and see whole sequence as one element. \r\nSet a value
    and then undo. Did it look better, worse? Look for inconsistencies to remove."
  created: '2011-07-17 18:39:05'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Yeah, I saw the thread where Speikerman was talking about using the HOHOHO
    technique.. if its good enough for him, it'll work for me, and I was sooo helped
    by reading the technique about dividing the letters into 3 classes based on what
    the lefts and rights look like.. That's what i was doing, but with kerning, so
    I fixed that...\r\n\r\nHere's /E and L and T/ (I made /T/ narrower, following
    the logic of the /L/) and also I fixed /G/ its arm at the top looked wierd..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caps_5922.png]\r\n\r\nHere's
    /d/ with and without a tail. I like it either way.. the tailed /d/ has the same
    sort of disarming novelty that the tail on the /a/ has. I also like the negative
    space in between the letters..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bada_4362.png]"
  created: '2011-07-17 19:29:32'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: That tail is charming indeed, but now it seems that /d/ is better without
    it. Too much is too much.
  created: '2011-07-17 19:42:52'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: It will be an alternate! Actually, is there a methodology for including alternates?
    like less is more ; ) or making a style set with more stylized letters?
  created: '2011-07-17 20:22:44'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hi Mark, I was going to give some crit but I think you are doing very well
    without...often you'll find as you work recursively through the glyphs you'll
    automatically be balancing the forms to better fit together, and I think you're
    doing exactly the right sorts of things. \r\n\r\nIf you want my opinion, my main
    concern would be that the overall aim of the face is not clear enough. I'm not
    sure if this is intended as a text or a display font. Thinking through what you
    want the face to do will help fix the brief and determine some of your choices.
    For example, what's the thinking behind the ascenders being lower than the caps?
    I'm very much for experimentation, but something this fundamental could restrict
    the usefulness for some people. I'd want to put the font into the intended typographic
    space (a paragraph, headline, poster, website, logotype) and see how it looks
    before settling on these sorts of parameters. Another thing I'm struggling with
    is the width...is this planned to be an extended width to go with a narrower cut?
    Normally one would draw the regular width first, as an extended cut would be less
    suitable for extended reading, and therefore difficult to appraise in its own
    right.\r\n\r\nI'm intrigued by the way you're blending humanist and grotesque
    influences here, something I'm quite keen on myself. \r\n\r\nIf this is merely
    an exercise in drawing letterforms, at the next level of detail I'd suggest:\r\n\r\nYour
    K and k need some attention as they're not harmonious.\r\nI can see you're attached
    to the shape of your /a/, but I'd suggest making the curves tauter, more defined
    and less flabby.\r\ne does look a little wide to me.\r\nI'd make f and t wider.\r\nG
    has a very dark spot.\r\nBowl of R is rather large.\r\nCurves and proportions
    of ampersand are bad.\r\nCurves of B don't quite harmonise with the other bowls.\r\nDoes
    I need to be so wide?\r\nThe bowl and stick letters still look dark and spotty
    around the spurs; as the triangular notches are rather shallow, I'd suggest simply
    pushing their vertices further in towards the bowls.\r\nNumerals look interesting,
    maybe try bringing in some of that funkiness to the alphabetic characters?\r\n\r\nI
    hope this doesn't put you off, as I can see you are developing an eye for good
    curves and I think this has potential."
  created: '2011-07-17 21:53:11'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "New PDF spec sheet at top!\r\n\r\nThanks Bendy! I appreciate your critique!
    Let me apologize for the state of the /&/, I haven't been working that hard on
    it, but i will be improving it. You have not deterred me in the least!\r\n\r\nTo
    begin with the Cap-hight versus ascenders, (to quote Samuel Johnson) \u201CSheer
    Ignorance.\u201D I started it as such and i thought it looked good and different..\r\n\r\nThe
    reason my /a/ is flabby is because I trying to make a distinctive /a/ letterform.
    When I started the typeface, i was scribbling letters and I made an /a/ that looked
    like this..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/a_3796.png]\r\nIt didn't do
    well in anything other than very large display sizes, and even then It was very
    grating to look at, so I adapted it to what it is now so that it would feel like
    the letter i made originally, but be more accessible.\r\n\r\nI do realize that
    most type begins narrower and is re-drawn for extended sizes, but I saw [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/font-fabric/gabriel-sans/|Gabriel
    Sans]] and I loved how it was natively set extended. This font is still largely
    inspired by Gabriel Sans: It is fairly mono-line, is natively extended, and I
    believe it mixes humanist with grotesk (which I didn't realize I was doing when
    I started this face).\r\n\r\nI think you're right, I haven't really decided if
    it is going to be display or body or logotype.. I think it would be a strong typeface
    for display and headlines.\r\nMaybe some other time I could condense it so it
    can also be a body-text face\r\n\r\nWhat changes should I make for this typeface
    to be effective in display and headline settings? I can make the caps less extended
    if they are too pronounced, i thought it was interesting character, but it might
    only be disregarding rules of Type, yielding unattractive results."
  created: '2011-07-17 22:43:28'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "What Bendy said: knowing the intended purpose of typeface is crucial.\r\nDisplay
    typefaces are used at larger sizes, so every inconsistent curve or black spot
    is more visible.\r\nBig sizes allow room for details - use that. \r\nBut space
    in headlines or posters are quite limited, so you need to make your font economical."
  created: '2011-07-18 09:24:10'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "This is a good starting point. All the above is important. I would go for
    Display. Text fonts simply require a greater understanding of lettershapes, proportions
    and balance. Display type doesn't have to be flawless, though off coarse, that's
    what you should aim for.\r\n\r\nGive S more whitespace at the top area.\r\nMake
    the terminals in C end at the same horizontal point.\r\nTry adding a vertical
    (not horizontal crossbar) to C, to make G. I'm not saying it's better, but you
    should at least try it. It usually looks cleaner.\r\nE F K M N P R U slightly
    narrower (10-20 units)\r\nConsider a descending tail in J (goes below baseline).
    This also requires a different structure for the tail itself. Right now, J causes
    a huge white gap.\r\nO and Q need slightly more overshoot.\r\nComplete the numerals.
    Good numerals are important!\r\nExtend the top terminal in G towards the right.\r\nMove
    the lef of R towards the right.\r\nI prefer /I/ without horizontals, but it's
    your choice. Look at the context.\r\n\r\nMove the most left nodes in the bowl
    of /a/ down.\r\nk might scare away potential buyers/downloaders.\r\nLift the dots
    (tittles) at i and j up.\r\ns same as S\r\nn m h slightly narrower (5-15 units)\r\n\r\nMove
    the top bowl of & to the right\r\nPlease have a look at some other options for
    the comma and quotes. It needs to be cleaner.\r\n@ too light\r\nMove top of ?
    to the right.\r\n\r\nMIND THE OPTICALS!\r\n\r\nFrom now on, drop the measuring
    tool and trust your eyes. STARE, change, STARE, change, STARE, -coffeebreak-,
    STARE, change, untill ALL STROKES appear to have the same thickness. Sorry for
    my poor use of ALLCAPS :-P\r\n\r\nPay special attention to diagonals, and make
    sure you're zoomed in enough to avoid rendering issues. \r\n\r\nKeep going.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nJasper"
  created: '2011-07-18 14:15:48'
- author:
    name: JSuomalainen
  body: "Nowadays there is this nice trend of making both optical versions and non
    optical versions. So when making display, or be it body text, typefaces without
    too much optical corrections might in some cases look better.\r\n\r\nCheck: http://lineto.com/img/media/2335.jpg?1"
  created: '2011-07-18 17:11:07'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Thanks so much Jasper!! Really encouraging and inspiring actually.. I have
    been using the measuring tool too much because I'm meticulous. I'll get started.\r\n\r\nPS.
    new /Kk/ and working on /a/\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kka_4335.png]"
  created: '2011-07-18 17:14:12'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "I love lineto! I based some of my /a/ and /l/ off of [[http://lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Akkurat/|Akkurat]]\r\nI
    might consider taking this route.. I think I might have too much optical correction"
  created: '2011-07-18 17:18:44'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: When you design, anything really, you want to make it LOOK in a certain way.
    By not applying optical correction, you make it LOOK as if the strokes don't have
    the same thickness. Nobody cares if they ARE the same thickness, if they don't
    LOOK that way. Something's been done in the past without optical correction, that
    doesn't mean it's good. I can't think of any good reason for you to make the strokes
    LOOK different in thickness.
  created: '2011-07-19 12:44:41'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Ok. I'm wondering if I should be using more anchors, because I might not
    be getting the best curves possible because they are being overextended. This
    /B/ is an example.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BB_4465.png] \r\nFutura
    uses few anchors, but does my typeface need more complex curves than futura, and
    more anchors?\r\nUsing more nodes is challenging for me because the only way I
    know to make the curves at the top of the bowl match the bottom is by using the
    same \u2206x \u2206y (but reflected of course)."
  created: '2011-07-19 17:03:02'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: Try placing anchors at the tightest spots on the curves and then delete the
    horizontal extrema and see what happens.
  created: '2011-07-19 18:35:08'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Nice! Thanks a lot James. That really helps!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BB2_4334.png]\r\nI'll
    keep going!"
  created: '2011-07-19 19:10:18'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: Just make sure you put the extreme points back in. I've found that little
    trick often helps with smoothing out curves (not every time, however).
  created: '2011-07-19 19:53:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Anchors? Here you're talking about nodes and control handles. Anchors have
    a different meaning in FL.\r\n\r\nFirst, the top and bottom counters are way too
    different in area. Second, try slimming the overall shape somewhat. Then thin
    the join of the bowls. Then I'd make the curves more approximate a circle (overlay
    some circles in the mask layer for example), but only slightly. Ideally you want
    to share out the tension in the curves equally between the two control handles."
  created: '2011-07-19 21:05:38'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: Update.
  created: '2011-07-22 22:11:06'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Nice solution on /J/ - have you tried longer roof?\r\nNarrower /I/ also looks
    better.\r\n\r\n/a/ could use a bit shorter roof.\r\n/c/ stands out by being narrow.\r\nWhy
    /j/ descender is shorter than the rest? O.o\r\n/k/ diagonal leg is sticking out
    too much.\r\n/q/ descender tail is not tasty. Too dark and attention-grabbing.\r\n/t/
    top probably aligned to /i/ top. Could be shorter.\r\nAll the round Capital letters
    are WAY too big now. Overdone optical correction. It's meant to be invisible.
    Like cosmetics.\r\n/H/ too wide. Look how much white spice it has inside.\r\nSill
    not sure about /M/ middle connection.\r\nEven though it's aligned, /K/ top arm
    sticks out optically.\r\n/Q/ tail needs more presence to distinguish it from /O/\r\n/R/
    bowl is too high.\r\n/S/ too narrow? Im looking and \"STU (DENT)\" and doesn't
    seem right. /S/ looks quite small. Compare O-o and S-s.\r\nI would use enclosed,
    triangular /4/. Works better with sans + more in theme with your geometrical shapes
    + you don't use such angled legs neither on /R/ or /K/ or /Q/."
  created: '2011-07-24 12:18:18'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: My post was so harsh that it broke the forums for several days ^^
  created: '2011-07-27 08:28:21'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "New Update!\r\nI wasn't hurt by you Minerva, I'm a counselor at a camp this
    week, so I'm a little busier than before!\r\nI realized that my Capitals were
    all WAY too big, so I made them more match the heights of the lower case (I kept
    the ascenders tall though).\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm trying to make the /pbgqd/ letters
    less geometric and match the extended curves of the /a/ (which I have made less
    wide)\r\nMade /Kk/ more distinctive with a horizontal crossbar so it would match
    the /a/'s design.\r\n\r\nI'm trying to make the lowercase more \u201Ctogether\u201D
    design-wise, and i'm taking some inspiration from Antenna by Font Bureau: trying
    to  make the curves less geometric, but at the same time not as squared as Eurostile.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Magenta-Teaser-thing1_3903.png]\r\n\r\nPs,
    /w/ is looking too wide when compared to the rest of the lowercase, do you guys
    agree?"
  created: '2011-07-27 18:48:24'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "I changed /pbqgd/ again, and i also tweaked /a/ a little bit. Comments?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/adbpqg_4314.png]"
  created: '2011-07-31 19:32:56'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Up to you which way to take the shapes...but the (vertical) middles of your
    curves will need a fraction more weight to balance the straights..I quite like
    the more humanist joins you've got here.\r\n\r\nYou'll get more harmony between
    the letters (which is the most crucial thing in a typeface) if you set a paragraph
    and pay close attention to the rhythm of the strokes and the balance between black
    and white. \r\n\r\n/g/ is shorter than /q/; it should overshoot rather than undershoot
    to look optically the same.\r\n\r\nCurves on the bowl of /a/ look like they're
    not going hand in hand.\r\n\r\n/k/ looks uncomfortable. Tail of /Q/ may need to
    cross into the bowl?"
  created: '2011-07-31 21:56:22'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: flip the bowls in p and d vertically.
  created: '2011-08-03 14:31:06'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Oh, like Gill Sans!\r\n\r\nBendy, like the /aKk/ now?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Typo43_5800.png]"
  created: '2011-08-03 19:19:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "/d/ looks a little overdone now, pull back to somewhere between this and
    the last version. Also if you're going to flip the /d/ and /p/ you should do something
    similar with /b/ and /q/..think of the way a pen would move in corresponding areas.\r\n\r\nI'm
    still having trouble with the /a/: there's no tension or interest anywhere in
    it (sorry!)\r\n\r\n/K/ and /k/ are looking more balanced, but leg of /k/ is looking
    a fraction too steep or high to counterbalance the arm. And it doesn't harmonise
    with the /K/. \r\n\r\nHope my comments are galvanising rather than offputting.
    I wouldn't comment if I wasn't trying to help ;)"
  created: '2011-08-03 20:56:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Also, why not be daring with the /q/ and add a slab foot on the tail. The
    curved thing didn't work at all but it's worth experimenting.
  created: '2011-08-03 21:00:00'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: 'I have been resting my laurels on /a/ for too long: i can make something
    better than it is right now! I''ll look at your suggestions'
  created: '2011-08-03 22:13:16'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Well, for me /a/ is fine as it is...\r\nAnd about these flippings: in antiquas,
    /d/ and /q/ bowls are heavier at the bottom, /b/ and /p/ - at the top."
  created: '2011-08-04 17:18:34'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Thinking about changing /a/. What do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type34_5161.png]"
  created: '2011-08-10 00:20:40'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "The upper one is new? Top of the bowl now connects with the new /d/ counterpart,
    but that's it. In this sample it stands out by not being geometric and by not
    having a straight line like other letters do. \r\nIf you decided to change it
    because it <cite>\"didn't have a tension or interest anywhere in it\"</cite>:\r\nIf
    there's only one advice any artist or designer of any field should take, it's
    <strong>\"CONTRAST\"</strong>. Because it gives the tension, and tension gives
    the interest.\r\n<ol>Dark vs Light\r\nBig vs Small\r\nStatic vs Dynamic\r\nSharp
    vs Blurred\r\nGrid vs Chaos\r\n<strong>Straight vs Curved</strong>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nSure,
    the new /a/ may be easier to identify from /e/, but we're back to square one:
    Why such angle? Why not curved /e/? \r\nIf you want to add more \"tension\" (I
    don't like to use fancy words) to old /a/, you can try raising or lowering the
    middle to change counter's proportions. So they are less equal in volume (big
    vs small).\r\n\r\nP.S. /h/ too wide..."
  created: '2011-08-10 10:45:37'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Update! new round tittles, higher waisted /a/, narrower /nhm/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/type442_5498.png]"
  created: '2011-08-13 00:12:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: That's certainly a more interesting form. By 'tension' I actually meant to
    tighten the curves, which I'd argue could still be beneficial on the wide curves
    (top right and possibly lower right curve of bowl). I'd pull the handles out more.
    It looks a bit wide too, I think.
  created: '2011-08-13 00:52:15'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "The /a/ is stronger now.\r\nNot sure about round dot, but that's matter of
    taste.\r\n/t/ looks too wide (same with /a/ and /y/), but can't tell without rest
    of the alphabet, since your font is somewhat extended.\r\n\r\nIs there an updated
    .pdf sheet?"
  created: '2011-08-13 17:05:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, this is the difficulty with an extended cut, it's hard to tell how expanded
    the forms should be...at least for me without having actually designed an extended
    face.
  created: '2011-08-13 17:58:31'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "There is now an updated pdf sheet! forgot to attach it earlier.\r\n\r\nBased
    off of Univers Extended, /a/ is narrower than /houn/ which are about the same
    size.. going to follow its example and look at the other letter metrics.."
  created: '2011-08-14 05:27:16'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: Um... which one is it?
  created: '2011-08-14 08:11:34'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "I'm not against what you chose, I'm against the way you did it. Look what
    works for your unique situation, not just \"because X did it\".\r\nBesides, what
    you noticed are not a constant:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvetica_5724.JPG]
    Helvetica Ex - /a/ wider than /nhu/.  /op/ too.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Myriad_3755.JPG]
    Myriad SemiEx - /a/ same as /nhu/. /op/ wider than the rest.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TradeGothic_5750.JPG]
    Tradegothic Ex /ao/ much wider than /nhu/, /p/ the widest of them all.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Univers_5662.JPG]Univers
    Ex - /a/ same as /nhup/,  /o/ the widest."
  created: '2011-08-14 18:26:03'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Ok.. I didn't realize that relative widths were not consistant.. thanks.\r\nabout
    the update PDF, i've tried to post it 5 times as an attachment to the beginning
    and it hasn't appeared on the topic..\r\n\r\nHere it is on dropbox..\r\nhttp://dl.dropbox.com/u/13872760/Magenta%20update%208-12.pdf"
  created: '2011-08-14 19:47:38'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "/a/ too wide. But look how it improved from 1st version! :)\r\n/m/ too narrow.\r\nGet
    rid of /q/ hook. Please :)\r\n/s/ too wide.\r\n/k/ upper diagonal too thick (lower
    one probably too).\r\n/A/ crossbar too high.\r\n/B/ too narrow. (D)\r\nSuch wide
    /C/ may create inconsistent lightness.\r\nTry lowering /F/ bottom bar.\r\n/H/
    too wide or /N/ too narrow.\r\n/K/ upper diagonal too thick & is \"hanging\" too
    much.\r\n/L/ too wide.\r\n/N/ too narrow or /H/ too wide.\r\n/P/ too narrow.\r\n/X/
    centre is too high (and it also may be too narrow).\r\n\r\nAnd /t/ and /f/ should
    be shorter. Or /r/ and /j/ wider. But that wouldn't look good.\r\n\r\nOne more
    thing - these joint inconsistencies:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shot_6241.JPG]
    Since they are at the same height, logically they should be the same."
  created: '2011-08-14 20:36:38'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "thanks! I'll work on it.. =)\r\n\r\nthose joint inconsistancies are because
    i flipped the /d/ to make the /p/.. should i make all the top bowl joins angular
    and the bottom ones curved, but keep the general angle they are at right now?"
  created: '2011-08-14 20:38:07'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Good question... :/\r\nI'd go for curved top joints (and angular bottoms),
    because it gives \"branched\" instead of \"stabbed\" feeling and looks less amateurish.
    Both angular and curved joints on the same letter can give that magical thing
    contrast.  \r\nMatter of taste - aforementioned Trade Gothic have angular joints
    though.\r\nFrankly, it's up to you. Just make them consistent :)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    in .pdf, instead of different size pangram (we can zoom in indefinitely anyway),
    make several pangrams of the same size, like: \r\n\"pack my box with five dozen
    liquor jugs\"\r\n\"jackdaws love my big sphinx of quartz\"\r\n\"zombie wolves
    quickly spot the jinxed grave\"\r\n\"amazingly few discotheques provide jukeboxes\"\r\n\"quick...\"\r\n\r\nI
    use my \"Amazed Discography.\" thingy that contains almost all of the main structures
    in nice short form and shows Capital, x, ascender, descender heights and spacing.
    Good for previewing in shops, where's limited space."
  created: '2011-08-14 21:28:17'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Here's a dropbox link to an update.. the bowl connections are curved at the
    top and angled at the bottom.. now the bottom is too dark. tell me what you see!\r\n\r\nhttp://dl.dropbox.com/u/13872760/Magenta%20update%208-15a.pdf"
  created: '2011-08-15 19:29:47'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "They are too dark because curves created \"black spots\" (or whatever it's
    called in English).\r\nIt means only one thing - optical correction time!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A_5698.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/and_3488.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/b_5498.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_4365.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jolt_3661.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/judge_5525.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kk_6276.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/of_4776.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ph_4523.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Q_6195.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quiver_5651.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rd_6424.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rtz_4644.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/t_3709.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/123_5215.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/456_3640.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/789_3594.JPG]\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-16 10:15:07'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Thank you so much!! Great specific things to fix.\r\nHow do I correct the
    black spots that are created when two bars join while keeping the monolinear look
    going? am i supposed to break the monolinear construction so that optically the
    characters strokes appear to be the same width?"
  created: '2011-08-16 16:59:52'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: "\"am i supposed to break the monolinear construction so that optically the
    characters strokes appear to be the same width?\"\r\n\r\nYes. It doesn't matter
    if it's monolinear mathematically, it matters if it is optically."
  created: '2011-08-16 17:14:03'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "<cite>It doesn't matter if it's monolinear mathematically, it matters if
    it is optically.</cite>\r\n\r\nAmen."
  created: '2011-08-16 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "Update!\r\nhttp://dl.dropbox.com/u/13872760/Magenta%20update%208-18.pdf\r\nthanks
    so much for your critiques! they are helping so much!"
  created: '2011-08-19 01:23:48'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Add lowercase and uppercase alphabets.\r\nLet's finish numbers and start
    doing diacritics.\r\n\r\n/m/ still too narow.\r\n/z/ too wide.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aze_4173.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/jay,pig_5450.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/K_5806.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the_4129.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/y_5183.JPG]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quotes_4227.JPG]\r\nquotes\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-19 09:28:21'
- author:
    name: JamesT
    picture: 122442
  body: on your lowercase /k/, the angle of the upper diagonal stroke seems to change
    after the connection to the lower diagonal stroke.
  created: '2011-08-19 15:18:26'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: Just noticed - /e/ curves are too thick.
  created: '2011-08-22 19:16:42'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: Is it dead?
  created: '2011-08-30 08:47:33'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: "thanks for bugging me Minerva =)\r\n\r\nUpdate at the topic header. I'm wondering
    if the Uppercase is too thick in comparison to the the lowercase. Example /M/
    and /m/"
  created: '2011-08-30 19:38:58'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Yes, uppercase is a bit too dark. But it's really coming together nicely.
  created: '2011-08-30 21:07:25'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: 'Thank you, Bendy! Of course i couldn''t have gotten this far without your
    great criticism. Lemme know if you see anything else! '
  created: '2011-08-31 00:39:04'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Sure, I just ran a proof off my printer and noticed a few other things:\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Terminals on lowercase a and c don't match. The a has a steeper slope, the c is
    more horizontal. Check the e and g and s too. I won't say what my preference is.\r\n\u2022
    Top arms of K and k aren't quite in harmony yet \u2014 the angle looks rather
    shallower on the lowercase. \r\n\u2022 As well as being slightly too dark, I think
    the caps generally could be a bit too wide.\r\n\u2022 Cap X needs a little more
    offset between the two strokes. Lowercase x looks rather wide.\r\n\u2022 Join
    of Y may be a little too low (top counter is large).\r\n\u2022 Draw the flag of
    1 out more, it's too short.\r\n\u2022 2 and 3 may need more hood, try bringing
    it round slightly more. Compare to the openness of c.\r\n\u2022 Bar of 4 looks
    slightly high (counter a bit small).\r\n\u2022 6 and 9 may need larger eyes.\r\n\u2022
    Diagonal of 7 looks too far right, bring the foot across more.\r\n\u2022 The two
    parts of the exclamation mark are getting too close, check your question mark."
  created: '2011-08-31 10:34:58'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: "Yes, capitals are noticeably darker. But it's not necessarily a bad thing
    - you can use that go give accent to the beginning of the sentence. Up to you.\r\n\r\nNice
    solution on /1/. Not sure how if it fits, but looks nice and clean. You can try
    angular connection from /l/ too.\r\n/2/ also looks better even though there's
    thickness inconsistency.\r\nCheck /A B K 4/ lines' thickness. Looks uneven.\r\nYou
    haven't changed /3 6 7/. See few posts above.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/the_5216.JPG]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/K_5436.JPG]\r\n\r\nIt's
    getting much harder to find flaws \u2013 a good sign!\r\nAlso add capitals-only
    pangrams.\r\n"
  created: '2011-08-31 11:21:41'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: Update! =) All caps included in the preview. Attempted to lighten the caps
    in comparison to the lower case.
  created: '2011-09-22 06:34:09'
- author:
    name: "Eimantas Pa\u0161konis"
    picture: 119590
  body: You only changed the caps? Because all other problems seem to be the same.
  created: '2011-09-23 08:00:30'
- author:
    name: MarkFonts
    picture: 128171
  body: I Might have add another update, not sure if that's the newest type specimen..
  created: '2011-09-23 16:59:36'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I think you're definitely starting to get a rhythm and evenness that wasn't
    there before. \r\n\r\nI may have said this before but I think you could afford
    a little more thinning at the stroke junctions, which are still looking a little
    too dark. I'd suggest also that there could be a fraction more difference between
    the verticals and horizontals. See what happens if you reduce the sections of
    /p/ at 12 and 6 o'clock by a couple of units. Of course that might just be my
    eyes.\r\n\r\nI'd pull the tail of the /a/ into a tighter curve. (Compare with
    /t/.)\r\n\r\nLook carefully at /v/. The right side looks heavy because we're used
    to seeing a bit of contrast on this letter. Even a monoline face needs to forget
    mathematics. Similarly the /o/ looks ever-so-slightly dark at 10 and 5 o'clock
    to my eyes.\r\n\r\nCurves of /s/ look a bit loose. (Compare with the bowl of /a/.)\r\n\r\nIs
    /j/ too narrow?\r\n\r\nRemember this is all very subjective, the best advice is
    just to keep rebalancing the letters with each other. It's a very recursive process,
    as I think you have realised. :)"
  created: '2011-09-24 00:34:31'
- author:
    name: LexLuengas
    picture: 121993
  body: This face is getting very similar to [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/font-fabric/gabriel-sans/|Gabriel
    Sans]]
  created: '2011-09-24 10:46:29'
date: '2011-07-04 20:43:37'
files:
- filename: Magenta update 7-16.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Magenta update 7-16.pdf
- filename: Magenta update 7-17.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Magenta update 7-17.pdf
- filename: Magenta update 7-22.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Magenta update 7-22.pdf
- filename: Magenta update 8-30.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Magenta update 8-30.pdf
- filename: Magenta update 9-22.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Magenta update 9-22.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Magenta typeface

---
